01-02-2021||News||A new confidence about India reflects in a bold Budget 2021||A new-found confidence over the well-handled Covid-19 crisis found its way into Budget 2021. This is reflected in three aspects of the budget. One, the finance minister ignored suggestions to tax the rich with a higher surcharge or a Covid-19 cess. Two, the government has gone for growth with a large push on capital spending. Three, the FM has cleaned up the balance sheet of the government and removed the anomaly of using off-balance sheet items to show lower borrowings. We all knew that this was going to be a growth-oriented budget, but the challenge before the government was to find the money to spend in a year that needs a big fiscal push, and to do so in the face of a drag on its revenue due to lower tax collections. The money has been found, looking through the fiscal deficit targets, borrowing and through a planned disinvestment of public sector units (PSUs). To fund infrastructure, the government is going to launch tax-free zero-coupon bonds targeted at the middle-income saver and investor. Also Read: Budget 2021: Sitharaman’s ₹2.25k crore infra push for 4 poll-bound statesFinance minister Nirmala Sitharaman has chosen to spend on generating future income using the higher capital spending, which has gone up by 35.4% over the previous year. This is good. The big positive is that the larger government spending will not get frittered away on doles, loan waivers or other subsidies, but is being spent to build infrastructure – roads, railways, ports and waterways. See this in context of your own budget – it matters what you take a loan for: Is it to eat dinner or for an education degree? The dinner gets you instant gratification, but the education allows you to earn more in the next few years. The dinner loan will have to paid back from your current income. The education loan will be paid from a higher income generated by that education. The government has chosen the politically tougher option of infrastructure spending rather than appeasing interest groups like farm intermediaries. The intention of the government to clean up the books came through when the 9.5% fiscal deficit number was announced for the current financial year. A practice began in the second term of the United Progressive Alliance government when some borrowings used to be put off the balance sheet and has since grown into a huge problem. To show a lower borrowing number to meet the fiscal deficit target, the government got PSUs like the Food Corporation of India (FCI) to borrow to meet the food subsidy. Instead of the government giving the FCI the difference between the lower market price of foodgrains and the higher minimum support price (MSP) and showing it on its balance sheet, it got FCI to borrow. This year the government has bitten the bullet and taken all those loans on its own balance sheet, the correct fiscal deficit number of 9.5% of gross domestic product (GDP). Other pro-reform and growth announcements were to deal with the raising of the foreign investment limits from 49% to 74% in insurance. This was a needless controversy created by the Left and has no real merit on the ground. Mutual funds have had 100% foreign ownership and we have not seen destruction of household money or seen anybody running away with Indian money. The privatisation announcement on one general insurance company and two banks, and the disinvestment of Life Insurance Corporation will have the unions up in arms very soon. The government is signalling its appetite for reform, whatever may be the fights, even as the one with farmers’ unions is still raging at the Delhi borders. At the micro level, there isn’t that much in the budget. No significant changes in personal tax rates, slabs or tax breaks. A good step has been to take a step forward to bring parity between the unit linked insurance plan (Ulip) and mutual funds. Any person with an aggregate Ulip premium across all polices worth more than ₹2.5 lakh in a year will be taxed in sync with what mutual funds are taxed, when the policy matures. If the person dies midway, the money paid to the family will be tax-free. This is a big signal on the start of insurance reform in India because for years life insurance has been given a tax-free status while 99% of the market sells investment-oriented products with just 10% of the premium going towards a life cover. The well-off with large Employees’ Provident Fund (EPF) corpuses will now pay taxes on the annual interest. The government has quietly made the EPF, an ETE (exempt -axed-exempt) product by introducing a tax on the interest on EPF contributions of more than ₹2.5 lakh a year starting from the next financial year. A compliance relief for senior citizens who only draw pension or interest income is that they will no longer need to file tax returns. Stock markets liked the cleaning up of the government balance sheet. They liked the growth push. And loved the fact that the dreaded wealth tax, inheritance tax, rich tax, cess, surcharge did not find their way into the budget documents and ended the day 5% higher. Stock markets look ahead and see growth coming back in a strong way as the government has signaled its intention to continue with reforms. Monika Halan writes on household finance, policy and regulation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/a-new-confidence-about-india-reflects-in-a-bold-budget-2021-101612195829411.html
01-02-2021||Other||Scotland Yard celebrates first-ever Sikh female police officer||London Scotland Yard on Monday celebrated the 50th anniversary of Karpal Kaur Sandhu joining its ranks as the first South Asian and Sikh female police officer, paving the way for others to follow in her footsteps.Police Constable (PC) Sandhu served the Metropolitan Police in London between 1971 and 1973 and has been dubbed as a “true pioneer” for police forces across the UK.“PC Karpal Kaur Sandhu was a true pioneer and ahead of her time. I have no doubt that her decision to join the Met Police in 1971 was a brave one and she would have faced considerable challenges along the way,” said Assistant Commissioner Helen Ball.“As Britain’s and the Met’s first Asian female officer, Karpal paved the way for so many others who have gone into policing since 1971. Fifty years to the day after PC Sandhu joined the Met, I am pleased that we are able to remember her life, her career and the legacy she has left policing,” she said.The National Sikh Police Association UK joined forces with the Met Police Sikh Association for a special virtual event in memory of PC Sandhu on Monday.“Today, together with representatives from the Met’s Sikh Association, Met police officers and staff and the wider Sikh community, we remember Karpal’s special contribution to policing, as the UK’s first female Asian and Sikh police officer,” said Ravjeet Gupta, Chair of the Metropolitan Police Sikh Association.“Karpal was an invaluable ambassador for the Met who helped break down barriers with London’s communities and will always be remembered for being a trailblazer of her time,” said Gupta.PC Sandhu was born to a Sikh family in Zanzibar, East Africa, in 1943 and came to the UK in 1962, where she got a job as a nurse at Chase Farm Hospital.She joined the Met in 1971 at the age of 27, where she served at Hornsey police station before moving to Leyton in east London.“I’m so proud of my mother, and her legacy as the UK’s first female police officer from an Asian and Sikh background. It’s wonderful that 50 years on she is remembered, and is an inspiration to generations of new female police officers joining the Met,” said Romy Sandhu, Karpal Kaur Sandhu’s daughter.At a time when there would have only been about 700 female officers in the Met, she was both the first female Sikh and female South Asian police officer in the UK.Writing in a report at the time, her Chief Superintendent said that she was “proving invaluable with our dealings with the immigrant population and she is also assisting other divisions in this work and also in teaching police officers Asian dialects”. He added that she was “energetic, intelligent and conscientious” and enjoyed playing hockey and driving.The Met Police said that PC Sandhu passed away in “tragic circumstances” in November 1973 and sadly, the force lost a promising officer who had a bright future.Sandhu, aged 30, was killed in an altercation with her husband, who was reportedly opposed to her career choice and was later sentenced to life imprisonment for her murder in 1974.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/scotland-yard-celebrates-first-ever-sikh-female-police-officer-101612202308520.html
01-02-2021||Bhopal||Character certificate to be mandatory for driving license in Madhya Pradesh||Character certificate will be mandatory for getting a driving license in Madhya Pradesh from now on, a transport department order said.The order also said that the driving licenses of those accused of crime against women will be cancelled in Madhya Pradesh, said MK Jain, state transport commissioner.The decision was taken after chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan announced that the state government will not spare mafias and those accused of crime against women in MP, said an official.According to the order, “As per instructions received from police training and research institute (PTRI), police headquarters, all regional and district transport officers have been directed to suspend the licenses of the accused of crime against women after getting information from the police department.”Also read: Twitter restores 250 accounts blocked in India for a controversial hashtagSimilarly, the applicant has to submit a character certificate after getting it verified by a police officer, said the order.Transport minister Govind Singh Rajput said, “This will definitely reduce crime against women. Now, the background of drivers of all the government, private and public vehicles will be verified and it will make travelling in public transport safer for women.”Women right activists praised the decision, but they said it won’t leave much impact on reducing crime against women.Women rights activist Rolly Shivhare said, “It is good that the state government came up with this decision. But capital punishment failed to reduce the number of rapes with minor girls so I don’t think it will leave much impact on reducing crime.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/character-certificate-to-be-mandatory-for-driving-license-in-madhya-pradesh-101612201787315.html
01-02-2021||Pune||Pune district sees 247 new Covid cases, one death||Pune: On Monday, Pune district reported one death due to Covid-19 infection and 247 new cases in 24 hours, as per the state health department. The one death was reported from Pune city. The final count of Covid cases in the district stood at 3.88 lakh of which 3.67 lakh recovered, 8,010 were declared dead due to the infection and 13,487 are undergoing treatment in hospitals or in home isolation and are active cases in the district as per the state health department report. The city reported 102 new cases taking the toll to 198,701 and one death which took the death toll to 4,525. PCMC reported 66 new cases taking the toll to 97,192 and the death toll stood at 1,316 and Pune rural reported 79 new cases which took the toll to 92,873 and the death toll to 2,127.The department reported that 3,289 patients were discharged on Monday taking the final count to over 19.32 lakh. The recovery rate in the state is 95.26%. Also, 1, 948 new cases in the state were reported taking the total to over 20.28 lakh. In addition, 27 Covid-19 deaths were reported in the state taking the death toll to 52,352. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.52 %. Of 14,656,223 laboratory samples 2,028,347 have been tested positive (13.84%) for Covid-19 until Monday. Currently, 192,382 people are in home quarantine and 2,152 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-sees-247-new-covid-cases-one-death-101612198108243.html
01-02-2021||Pune||36% schools reopen doors for Classes 5 to 8 students in Pune||Pune: Over 36 per cent schools, private as well as PMC-run schools, reopened on Monday for Classes 5 to 8. However, some major schools in the city are still preparing to resume offline classes as Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) officials are yet to inspect their premises. Parents’ consent for classes 5 to 8 was taken and schools noted that around 40 per cent parents were willing to send their children to schools. Officials said that parents’ consent will see a rise as schools reopen this week. Suresh Jagtap, additional commissioner of Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), said that around 36 per cent schools have received the permission to reopen. “We have inspected over 348 schools and given permission to 283 schools to reopen as of Monday. Rest of the schools will be reopened after permission is given to them this week. Our officials are inspecting the schools for precautionary measures ahead of reopening,” said Jagtap. Sharing details, Archana Panch, vice-principal at Raman Bagh English school, said that offline classes for class 8 to 10 and for classes 5 to 8 are different. “Classes 8 to 10 are from 11:30 am to 1:30 pm. We have a break till 3 pm, when we sanitise the school premises for student’s safety. From 3 pm to 5 pm, in the afternoon batches, we have classes 5 to 7 which have restarted from Monday. Students were happy to come back to school. The parents’ consent has also been good. Parents are enthusiastic that students are back,” said Panch. Medha Sinnarkar, principal, Apte Prashala, said that around 30 per cent parents’ consent have been received by the schools so far. “We are taking all necessary precautions. Our school is yet to be inspected by PMC. This week, we will hopefully start Classes 5 to 8 offline. We have got 30 per cent of parents agreeing to send their wards to school. We are still interacting with more parents and there is expected to be an increase as we reopen,” said Sinnarkar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/36-schools-reopen-doors-for-classes-5-to-8-students-in-pune-101612196970223.html
01-02-2021||Pune||At least 10 children brought for questioning in Kothrud murder||The Pune police are in the process of questioning multiple children who were in the know of the 11-year-old child who was found dead at an open ground near Paud road on Sunday. The sections for destruction of evidence were invoked in the case after post-mortem of the child’s body.Pournima Gaikwad, deputy commissioner of police, Zone 3; M Dange, senior police inspector, Kothrud police station; Shankar Khatke, senior police inspector, Warje Malwadi police station were among the senior officials interacting with at least 10 children. Members of the NGO that works with the Juvenile Justice Board (JJB) were also present while the children were being interacted with.“The post-mortem showed that he died of head injuries. But he had multiple injuries on his back too,” said police sub-inspector P Shelke of Kothrud police station who is investigating the case.A case under Sections 363 (kidnapping), 302 (murder), and 201 (destruction of evidence) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered at Kothrud police station against unidentified people.The child’s complainant mother, who performed last rites on Sunday, and appeared in the police station on Monday and had to be rushed to a nearby hospital as her blood pressure spiked and she collapsed at the police station premises.The parents of the children called to the police station were visibly stressed over the long hours at the station.“My grandson has been here for hours. He hardly ever goes out to play. He has multiple allergies. But we will do whatever is required to help the police,” said an elderly woman who did not wish to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/at-least-10-children-brought-for-questioning-in-kothrud-murder-101612196368919.html
01-02-2021||Pune||Businessman arrested for attempted murder of policeman||A Pune-based businessman who was booked for the attempted murder of a police constable has been arrested from the Mumbai airport on Sunday by the Pune police and remanded to judicial custody by a local court on Monday.The arrested man has been identified as Utkarsh Balasaheb Patil (36), a resident of Breman chowk area of Baner. His workplace is located Kalyaninagar in the jurisdiction of Yerawada police station.“While the crime branch Unit 4 was conducting parallel investigation in the case, police naik Surendra Sable acquired his phone number and photo while an anonymous tip informed us that the accused was arriving in Mumbai from Chennai and was headed to another state,” read a statement from Unit 4 of Pune police crime branch.The 36-year-old realtor had tried to run over a police constable of Yerawada police station while he was enforcing a non-bailable warrant (NBW) issued against the now arrested man.The NBW was issued against the man by the court of a Judicial Magistrate First Class (JMFC) court in Port Blair, Andaman and Nicobar.The case in Port Blair was from 2018 about some financial misdealings, according to the police.“He was remanded to judicial custody in the attempted murder case. He had acquired bail in the case at Port Blair as well prior to his arrest at Mumbai airport,” said police inspector (crime) Ajay Waghmare of Yerawada police station.A case under Sections 307 (attempted murder) and 224 (resistance or obstruction by a person to his lawful apprehension) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against Patil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/businessman-arrested-for-attempted-murder-of-policeman-101612196368232.html
01-02-2021||Pune||MLA Tingre leads efforts for “Oxygen Park” in Kharadi||In an effort to provide fresh air to residents of Kharadi and nearby areas, local MLA Sunil Tingre has proposed to build an ‘Oxygen Park’ in the area Recently, a primary inspection of the land selected for the park was carried out by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and the Pune district collectorate officials along with Tingre. “In today’s hectic lifestyle and increased pollution all around us, we are not able to get fresh air to breathe. Our daily routine is so busy that it is affecting our health. Covid-19 has made us realise that it is necessary to look after our health prominently. So, to give fresh air and a healthy atmosphere to citizens, we have decided to build an oxygen park-like garden in my constituency,” said Tingre. “In a bid to receive funds for this project from both PMC and Pune district collectorate office, we have given application under the Corporate Environment Responsibility (CER). We are hoping to get a positive response from both the government bodies,” he added. Last week, a joint inspection was done by MLA Tingre along with additional commissioner of PMC Kunal Khemnar at the site for the development of ‘Oxygen Park’ at Kharadi survey no. 30 Pittie ground. The total land reserved for the garden is 7.5 acres where an oxygen park is proposed. “It will have various public amenities like one-kilometer jogging track, a separate area for yoga and a separate play section for children. Most importantly for fresh air and supply of oxygen, trees with maximum oxygen content will be planted in the park. While one of the parts of the park will have medicinal plants,” said Tingre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/mla-tingre-leads-efforts-for-oxygen-park-in-kharadi-101612196008824.html
01-02-2021||Pune||PCMC stays tax notice on Padmashri recipient Girish Prabhune||After the furore from various political leaders – the Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) has decided to stay the property tax notice served to Girish Prabhune, recipient of the Padmashri award. Prabhune who runs the Punarutthan Samarasata Gurukulam, an NGO in Chinchwad has been served two tax property notices before he was awarded the Padma Shri on January 26. Of the two notices, ₹1.21 crore property tax notice is on the name of the NGO while another ₹1.71 crore is on the primary and secondary school constructed by the NGO. “Currently, no action will be taken against the notices. Once PCMC commissioner Shravan Hardikar resumes duty on February 4 further course of action will be decided,” said Smita Zagade, deputy commissioner, property tax department, PCMC. The Punrutthan Samarasata Gurukulam is run by Krantiveer Chapekar Smarak Samiti. “A permanent solution will come out on this issue. I am assured by many political leaders,” said Girish Prabhune. However, PCMC will continue taking action against residents who have been given notices. The notice was served on priority to defaulters from the twin cities who have arrears above ₹25 lakh. “We will start sealing properties if people don’t respond to our notices. Action will be taken against big tax defaulters first,” added Zagade. The Pimpri-Chinchwad currently has a total of 5,27,388 properties. It has 4,47,008 residential, 46,828 non-residential, 3,700 industrial, 8,781 open spaces, 15,819 mixed and other 5,202 properties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pcmc-stays-tax-notice-on-padmashri-recipient-girish-prabhune-101612196008192.html
01-02-2021||Pune||MPCB to test water sample from Keju Devi temple boat club||The Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) will be collecting water samples of the Pavana river at the Kaju Devi temple boat club in Chinchwad where a huge amount of foam has been seen in the water. “Our officials will be collecting water samples from the spot and it will be sent for testing in the labs. The result will tell us why there was a formation of foam in the water, the report will take at least 15 days to come out,” said Kiran Hasabnis, MPCB, sub-regional officer, Pimpri-Chinchwad. A spot visit from HT on Sunday confirmed the presence of foam in water. “The foam formed by the commercial wastewater chemical or domestic wastewater will be confirmed from the test. Residents continue washing animals in the water near Keju Devi temple,” said Hasabnis. In the past as well there were many incidents when fish were found dead at the Keju Devi temple boat club. “In 2019, we surveyed the complete area by boat, and it was noticed that due to discharge of wastewater in the river the deaths occurred,” added Hasabnis. Social activists and residents blame the Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) while MPCB said that the civic body has undertaken some work to stop the waste water entering from various big nullahs in the river. “Sewage water treatment plants have been installed in many places and placing of proper drainage network is also in the process. In October 2020, we filed a case against PCMC at Shivajinagar court and asked them to fix the problem of water pollution in the Pavana river,” added Hasabnis. The wastewater from big nullahs near Raaga hotel, Akurdi, Walekarwadi, Tathwade and Thergaon enters the Pavana river. “The PCMC has started working after that and they have assured to fast track the work,” added Hasabnis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/mpcb-to-test-water-sample-from-keju-devi-temple-boat-club-101612195952131.html
01-02-2021||Pune||Pune-based educationalists welcome budget 2021||In a positive development for the education sector, union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman added emphasis on the new educational policy while presenting the budget for the year 2021-22 on Monday. Some prominent educationalists from Pune welcomed Sitharaman’s boost to the education sector with an announcement of ₹50,000 crore over the next five years for the National Research Foundation (NRF). Rahul V Karad, managing trustee and executive president, MAEER’s MIT Group of institutions said, “As an educationist, I welcome the budget announced for this year by our FM Nirmala Sitharaman. The budget aims at the overall economical revival with a major thrust on infrastructure, healthcare and agriculture along with other sectors. The announcement about putting up of a central university in Leh to 750 Eklavya Model residential schools in tribal areas and 100 new Sainik schools is definitely a positive move in the right direction. The setting up of National Digital Educational Architecture (NDEAR) and the emphasis on the development of digital infrastructure of the country for the implementation of NEP 2020 will surely address the challenges institutions are facing in remote learning. Apart from this creating a higher education commission will help streamline the higher education scenario of the country. This year’s budget has taken into account some of the challenges faced by the Indian education sector and presents opportunities that can be turned into strengths to make our nation Atmanirbhar, as India will have the largest working age population in the world by 2030.” Dishan Kamdar, vice Chancellor of Pune based Flame University believes the government’s decision to allocate Rs.50,000 crore over five years will serve as a great shot in the arm for the country’s research ecosystem. “Lack of adequate funding has been a constraint for several higher education institutions and this support will enable the institutions and the faculty to produce high quality, rigorous research output. The creation of the Higher Education Commission of India (HECI) as an umbrella structure having four separate bodies for standard-setting, accreditation, regulation, and funding under it will bring in synergies across higher education institutions. In addition, a regulatory mechanism to promote academic collaboration with foreign higher educational institutions will help pave the way for Indian higher education institutions to become truly global in the near future,” he said. Vidya Yeravdekar, pro-chancellor of Symbiosis International (deemed university) and principal director, Symbiosis said, “The budget announced by the finance minister today especially for the education sector is very welcomed. The National Education Policy rolled out last year and now the focus in the budget is aligned to this policy. ₹50,000 crores for the National Research Foundation is a welcome sign, as these funds will be available to universities to do research which was lacking at Indian universities. This will also help our universities to be listed in the top 100 or 200 universities in the world. The other focus on skill development especially by appending the national apprenticeship programme is also welcomed; this will generate jobs for diploma engineering students because of partnership with the industries.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/punebased-educationalists-welcome-budget-2021-101612195951226.html
01-02-2021||Pune||Finding no place in this year’s budget, Pune metro plans to submit extension proposal soon||Pune metro failed to bag any funding from the central government in this year’s budget as it did not submit the phase II proposal to the Centre. However, Nagpur metro which had submitted its phase II proposal got a mention in this year’s central budget. Finance minister Nirmala Sitaraman announced on Monday that Nagpur metro rail project phase II and Nashik metro will get funding of ₹5,976 crore and ₹2,092 crore respectively in the annual budget 2021-22. However, no announcement was made for the Pune metro.Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation Limited (Maha-Metro) managing director Brijesh Dixit, said, “The phase I proposal was submitted a year ago to the central government. After getting instructions from the local body and the state government, we will submit the phase II proposal for Pune metro this year, which would get reflected in the next year’s annual budget.”Dixit said, “It is a proud moment for us as Maha-Metro had proposed the Neo Metro in Nashik. Neo metro concept was introduced by Maha-Metro and it got approval at national level as a new mode of travel.”Dixit said, “Neo metro is a good project for tier 2 and tier 3 cities which have less population and where metro is not feasible. Now, the government is planning to replicate neo-metro model at the national level.”One of the officials from Maha-Metro said on condition of anonymity that Nagpur metro had started its commercial operations and hence, it got earlier permission for phase II. Pune metro is executing its phase first which is in progress. The government has approved one more metro line on PPP basis which is getting executed by PMRDA in between Hinjewadi and Shivajinagar. Various other routes are proposed in Pune and they all can go to the central government for phase II very soon.Maharashtra finance minister Ajit Pawar criticised the Union budget and said, “Budgetary provisions were given to Nagpur and Nashik cities considering the elections, but Pune- Nashik railway got no mention.”Commercial operations likely to start by December 2021Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) state president Chandrakant Patil and mayor Murlidhar Mohol held a meeting with Maha-Metro officials on Monday. Patil announced that the metro is likely to start its commercial operations in Pune by December this year. The trial run on Vanaz to Garware College stretch will start by March.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/finding-no-place-in-this-year-s-budget-pune-metro-plans-to-submit-extension-proposal-soon-101612195948743.html
01-02-2021||Pune||MCCIA holds budget viewing session, industrialists confident of growth, stability||A live budget viewing session was organised by the Mahratta Chamber of Commerce Industries and Agriculture (MCCIA) at their office on Senapati Bapat road from 11 am onwards on Monday. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman presented the union budget for the fiscal year 2021–22 in parliament on Monday. After Sitharaman’s speech, MCCIA members and prominent people who attended the viewing session gave their reaction on the budget. “We thank the finance minister for ensuring policy certainty and taxation stability in this budget. That is very important for encouraging the confidence of businesses and the investors. In an environment of consumption, private investment and exports not yet picking up to normal levels, the government had to spend, and we are glad that the expenditure budget is at a high of ₹34.8 lakh crore. It is especially encouraging to see a higher component of it being budgeted for the capital expenditure that delivers multiplier impact for growth,” said Sudhir Mehta, president of MCCIA. “For the tax rates to be stable, it’s important that we have more revenues from divestments and asset monetization. Divestments in PSUs and specifically in PSBs and LIC are very welcome. It will raise resources while helping the sectors become even more efficient. While positive announcements were made for the industries including – FDI ceiling increase in the insurance industry, new parks for the textile industry, more than doubled the budget for MSMEs ministry to support MSMEs with schemes including the ones for credit guarantees and interest rate subventions.” he added. Arun Firodia, chairman of Kinetic Group while welcoming the budget in his reaction said, “There are some welcome features announced by the government like faceless assessment. I would like this to be extended to all permissions and returns required to start a new business and run the business. Digitalization of interaction with government authorities will reduce corruption and improve the ease of doing business. Another welcome announcement is the correction of inverted duty structure. Government has announced its intention to support the electric vehicle industry,” Firodia said, “Our request would be - motor and controller are being imported at nil import duty. Domestically manufactured motor and controller should also be charged the same at nil duty. Similarly, lithium battery cells are charged 5 per cent import duty. The same rate should be allowed for domestically manufactured batteries. Instead of scrappage policy, which would be unwelcome, it may be a better idea to levy a green tax on vehicles that are more than 15 years old. With the high cost of the battery, the electric vehicles are still more expensive than petrol-driven vehicles. My suggestion would be to increase the subsidy from Rs. 10,000 per kWh to Rs. 15,000 per kWh and continue it for the next 5 years. In order to induce people to use electric vehicles, a sizeable number of amenity spaces should be reserved for charging stations.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/mccia-holds-budget-viewing-session-industrialists-confident-of-growth-stability-101612195948160.html
01-02-2021||Pune||More than 100% HCWs vaccinated in city, PCMC on Monday||Pune: On Monday, 1,745 healthcare workers (HCW) got vaccinated for Covid against the targeted 1,500 beneficiaries taking the average percentage of beneficiaries on the day to 116% in Pune city. Pimpri-Chinchwad also reported more than the target, as 118% beneficiaries got vaccinated. Pune rural, however, reported 77% of beneficiaries being inoculated on Monday. Only one minor adverse effect post vaccination was reported in the district. As per the report published by the district health office, on Monday, Pune city reported vaccination at the 15 session sites. Only four of these sites reported less than 100% vaccination. Deenanath Mangeshkar reported 300% of beneficiaries being inoculated against the set target. Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) vaccinated 1,063 beneficiaries against the set target of 900. Pune rural saw 1,690 beneficiaries vaccinated of the 2,200 set target. In the district, of the targeted 4,600 beneficiaries, 4,498 got vaccinated on Monday taking the average percentage to 98%. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Jagtap said, “Around 65 thousand frontline workers have been registered from Pune city for Covid registration in the next round. We await instructions from the state on vaccinating the frontline workers.” A senior civic official from the health department said, “We have delayed the vaccination process because the link for the Co-WIN app is not activated yet.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/more-than-100-hcws-vaccinated-in-city-pcmc-on-monday-101612195648168.html
01-02-2021||Pune||Mother of newborn twins duped of ₹26.7k by caller posing as doc at Pune’s KEM||PUNE: Police have lodged a complaint filed by a mother, admitted in the post-natal care at KEM hospital, who was duped of ₹26,700 by a caller claiming to be a hospital staff. The Pune police have seen a rise in cases registered by patients admitted at private and government hospitals being duped in a similar manner.The woman received a call on Friday when a relative from Shikrapur was visiting her. Having given birth to twins, the woman was undergoing treatment when she received a call from a mobile number whose details have been submitted to the police.“The number seems local, but due to number port facility, we cannot draw any conclusion until the service provider responds (provides information),” said Ulhas Kadam, inspector (crime) of Samarth police station who is investigating the case.The caller told the woman that he is a doctor at KEM and that her children were in need of an injection that would ensure proper functioning of her premature babies, according to the complaint.The woman was told that the injection costs ₹26,700 and that she will need to send the money using Google Pay attached to the caller’s phone number, according to the police.Dr Madhur Rao, senior deputy medical administrator, KEM Hospital, said that fraudsters are targeting relatives of patients at our hospital which is disturbing. “As soon as we became aware of this happening we immediately informed the cyber crime unit. We have put up notices for all our patients and their relatives reiterating that they should make payments only at the hospital counters. Unfortunately, in this case, a patient’s brother got a call on the landline from a person claiming to be a doctor attached to the hospital. It was only after paying the amount and later inquiring from the treating consultant that it was found that no such request had been made,” Rao said. A case under Section 420 (cheating) of Indian Penal Code and Sections 66(c) and 566(d) of Information Technology Act was registered at Samarth police station.Similar cases were registered at Bundgarden and Wanowrie police stations. The cyber crime cell has involved police from other states also to probe some of these cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/mother-of-newborn-twins-duped-of-rs-26-7k-by-caller-posing-as-doc-at-pune-s-kem-101612194328110.html
01-02-2021||Pune||2-day meet with BJP corporators soon: Patil||PUNE: Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) state unit president Chandrakant Patil plans to concentrate more at Pune city BJP units as some of the elected members are in close contact with the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP). Pune district guardian minister Ajit Pawar and NCP spokesperson Ankush Kakade in recent days have claimed that some of the BJP elected members from Pune Municipal Corporation are in touch with NCP and planning to join the party before the civic elections. Patil said, “Elected members are used to meeting the ruling party leaders to discuss development works. We are soon going to hold a two-day meet with all BJP corporators. I would also concentrate on all the eight assembly constituencies in Pune.” The senior party leader said that he was focussed on Kothrud assembly constituency that he represents. “Now there are demands for my presence coming from the rest of the assembly constituencies. I plan to conduct meetings with the corporators from all the assembly constituencies,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/2day-meet-with-bjp-corporators-soon-patil-101612193788129.html
01-02-2021||Mumbai||96 more birds found dead in Maharashtra; samples sent for analysis||Maharashtra has reported deaths of 96 more birds, most of them poultry birds, amid the avian influenza scare, the state government said on Monday.Their samples are being sent to the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases (NIHSAD), Bhopal and Disease Investigation Section, Pune, for testing to ascertain the cause of the death of these birds on Sunday, it said.According to an official statement, 77 of these were poultry birds.The government said 15 crows and four other birds, including herons and parrots, also died on Sunday.Samples of poultry birds from Mahape and Ghansoli in Thane district, sent earlier for analysis, were found positive for avian influenza, the statement said.Maharashtra has recorded deaths of 19,923 birds since January 8, the statement said.The samples are being sent to National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases (NIHSAD) in Bhopal and Disease Investigation Section, Pune for testing, the government said.On January 30, the results of the testing of samples were received from the NIHSAD, Bhopal and the poultry birds samples from Thane district at Mahape and Ghansoli were found positive for avian influenza, it said.The government, however, did not specify the number of samples received from the Bhopal-based institute.So far, 72,106 poultry birds; 44,686 eggs and 63,339 kg poultry feed have been destroyed from infected zones in the state, the government said.To avoid the spread of infection, carcasses are put in a gunny sack and buried in a ditch lined with a layer of lime.The government has sanctioned a compensation package of ₹1.30 crore for culling of poultry and other birds, and destroying eggs and poultry feed, and to cover cost of disease control within 1 km radius of an infected area under the Bird Flu Disease Control Programme, the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/96-more-birds-found-dead-in-maharashtra-samples-sent-for-analysis-101612193398718.html
01-02-2021||Noida||Air quality turns 'severe' in Ghaziabad, 'very poor' in Noida, Faridabad||The air quality deteriorated to reach "severe" levels in Ghaziabad, "very poor" in Noida, Greater Noida and Faridabad and "poor" in Gurgaon, according to data issued by a government agency on Monday.Pollutant PM 2.5 and PM 10 remained prominent in the air of the five immediate neighbours of Delhi, the air quality index (AQI) maintained by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) stated.As per the index, an AQI between zero and 50 is considered 'good', 51 and 100 'satisfactory', 101 and 200 'moderate', 201 and 300 'poor', 301 and 400 'very poor', and 401 and 500 'severe'.The average 24-hour AQI at 4 pm on Monday was 412 in Ghaziabad, 369 in Noida, 384 in Greater Noida, 352 in Faridabad and 271 in Gurgaon, according to the CPCB's Sameer app.On Sunday, it was 394 in Ghaziabad, 331 in Noida, 352 in Greater Noida, 311 in Faridabad and 303 in Gurgaon.The CPCB states that an AQI in the “poor” causes breathing discomfort to most people on prolonged exposure, while “very poor” may cause respiratory illness on prolonged exposure. AQI in “severe” category affects healthy people and badly impacts those with existing diseases.The AQI for each city is based on the average value of all monitoring stations there.Ghaziabad, Gurgaon and Noida have four such stations while Greater Noida and Faridabad have two stations each, according to the app.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/air-quality-turns-severe-in-ghaziabad-very-poor-in-noida-faridabad-101612191825527.html
01-02-2021||Pune||SII awaits Centre’s purchase nod for Covishield vaccine’s second batch||Pune: Pune-based pharma major Serum Institute of India (SII) awaits the purchase order for the second lot of Covishield vaccine. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, while presenting the Union Budget 2021-22 on Monday, said that the country would spend a ₹35 thousand crore for Covid vaccination. Covishield is one of the two vaccines approved by the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation on India for emergency use approval and is being used to vaccinate healthcare workers (HCW) and frontline workers in the first phase of nationwide Covid-19 vaccination. The first purchase order for Covishield from the government was for 11 million doses which began to be dispatched from January 11 and the vaccine doses were being administered to HCWs beginning January 16. The doses were purchased at ₹210 per dose, including taxes. SII executive director Suresh Jadhav said, “We are yet to get any confirmation on the second lot of the vaccine. In fact, we are even awaiting a nod from the ministry of external affairs to transport the doses out of the country. For every consignment we need the approval of the government and despite having orders in place from other countries, almost 3-4 of our consignments await nod from the government. Currently, we have a stock of about 70 million doses and are mass producing 50 million doses per month as of now.”Commenting on the budget, Adar Poonawalla, chief executive officer at SII said, “Globally, spending on healthcare infrastructure and vaccine has given countries and their economies the best bang for their buck. Investments in these areas have prevented hospitalisations and resulted in a healthier and more productive workforce, thereby leading to an efficient economy. Therefore, we welcome the FM’s emphasis on healthcare spending and immunisation, especially for Covid-19 and the pneumococcal vaccines as this will help India recover rapidly from the pandemic. Hopefully, this will also encourage more innovation and expansion in the sector.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sii-awaits-centre-s-purchase-nod-for-covishield-vaccine-s-second-batch-101612190788158.html
01-02-2021||Other||Agriculture sector gets little in Union budget: Experts||Chandigarh The farmers’ community seems to have been ignored in the Union budget for financial year 2020-21 which was tabled in Parliament on Monday, feel experts. “The expenditure for agriculture sector in the upcoming financial year (2021-22) is ₹1.48-lakh crore which was ₹1.55-lakh crore in the current financial year (2020-21),” said Lakhwinder Singh Gill, former head of the economics department, Punjabi University. “It appears that the Modi government was not very keen for the sector. The opportunity to soothe the protesting farmers was not utilised properly,” he added. Gill further said ₹40,000 crore for rural infrastructure in 713 districts of the country meant nothing and an announcement for a crop credit of ₹1.68 crore had little value as it was to be given by national bank of agriculture and rural development (NABARD). Senior economist Sardara Singh Johal, who is also chancellor of the Central University, Bathinda, refused to comment. Dean, social sciences, at Punjabi University, Kesar Singh Bhangu, welcomed the announcement for setting up 1,000 more e-national agriculture market (NAM), but said the fate of already functioning electronic mandis was unclear. “The government needs to explain the fate of the electronic mandis, which, I think, are not doing any good,” he said. Head of economics department at Guru Nanak Dev University Neena Malhotra also felt that the government could have done more for the farmers. The government should have spent more on the agriculture sector for the reason that during the lockdown last year, only agriculture sector witnessed a growth while others suffered. She said the Union government has reaffirmed that minimum support price will continue, besides offering credits to farmers. “Looking at the budget highlights, government has made its priorities clear that they want to spend more on infrastructure, railways and health sectors for the benefit of all sections of society in the long run,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/agriculture-sector-gets-little-in-union-budget-experts-101612190187998.html
01-02-2021||Delhi||No illegal detention of farmers after Republic Day violence: Delhi Police||The Delhi Police said on Monday they have not detained anyone illegally in connection with the violence that broke out in the national capital during the farmers' tractor rally on Republic Day and added they are investigating the case in a fair and transparent manner. The police said they have lodged 44 first information reports (FIRs) and arrested 122 people in connection with the violence.“Delhi Police have filed 44 FIRs and arrested 122 people in connection with the farmers’ protest. We have provided the information on our website, anyone can see it. Police have not detained anyone illegally. I appeal to people not to pay heed to rumours,” Delhi Police’s spokesperson Eish Singhal was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.The police also tweeted that rumours were also being spread that many farmers went missing post the January 26 mayhem. One person died and nearly 400 police personnel were injured and 30 police vehicles were damaged during the tractor rally last week.There are various rumors being spread about illegal detention and missing of many farmers post 26th January violence. Delhi Police has registered 44 cases and arrested 122 persons so far.@CPDelhi @LtGovDelhi@PMOIndia @HMOIndia #FarmersProtest pic.twitter.com/DSOAE7wuikEarlier, a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) was filed before Delhi High Court which sought the release of all farmers and others illegally detained by the police on or before January 26, according to a report by livelaw.in. The petitioner, a law student who filed the plea through advocates Ashima Mandla and Mandakini Singh, termed the detention as a violation of Articles 14, 21, 22 of the Constitution of India, the report added.The protests against the Centre’s three farm laws entered day 68 on Monday. Security remained tightened at Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur border points with additional security personnel deployed amid fears of more farmers entering the national capital from states such as Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana.Also Read| Farm laws: Agriculture minister has a suggestion for oppn, delivers a warningThe Union home ministry on Monday had extended the temporary suspension of internet services in these border points till Tuesday adding that this was done to maintain public safety and to avert public emergency.“In exercise of the power conferred under Sub-rule 1 of Rule 2 of the Temporary Suspension of Telecom Services (Public Emergency or Public Safety) rules 2017 and in the interest of maintaining public safety and averting public emergency, it is necessary and expedient to order the temporary suspension of Internet services in the areas of Singhu. Ghazipur, and Tikri and their adjoining areas in the NCT of Delhi from 23:00 Hours on January 31 to 23:00 Hours on February 2,” an order issued by the ministry read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/no-illegal-detention-of-farmers-after-republic-day-violence-delhi-police-101612188218609.html
01-02-2021||Pune||Some parents, students give thumbs up to reopening of Pune schools||Pune: Some students and parents have welcomed the resumption of offline classes for classes 5 to 8 from Monday. Parents said that their wards enjoyed their first day in school after a long time. Archana Kakade, a city-based parent, said that her ward was looking forward to meet his friends on school campus. “Students are used to taking precautions related to Covid and the school has also put in place all safety measures. Though my son’s offline classes are yet to resume, he is enthusiastic about the reopening of school. He has already re-joined private football coaching classes and is happy to meet some of his friends in person,” said Archana. According to Archana, the annual school sports events, Diwali, other festivals and get-togethers were conducted online last year. Children got bored of sitting at home and attending the events virtual. “My child doesn’t even want a holiday anymore. He is eager to return to school campus,” said Kakade, Another parent Anupama More said that offline classes are better than virtual teaching. “My son was happy to attend school today. He met teachers and school mates after a long time. The school took all precautions and he was also carrying mask and sanitiser,” said Anupama.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/some-parents-students-give-thumbs-up-to-reopening-of-pune-schools-101612187607834.html
01-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Car designer Dilip Chhabria arrested in ₹22 crore cheating case||The economic offences wing (EOW) of the Mumbai Police has arrested car designer Dilip Chhabria in a third case, for allegedly cheating a Chennai-based businessman to the tune of over ₹22 crore. Chhabria’s family members have also been also accused in this case.A local court has remanded him to police custody till February 5.Chhabria had already been booked by the Mumbai crime branch in connection with an alleged car finance racket since December 2020.The latest first information report (FIR) against him is based on a complaint lodged by automobile spare parts supplier Indermal Ramani.Also Read: Court accepts Javed Akhtar’s complaint against Kangana, issues summons to actor“Ramani alleged that he had supplied spare parts to Chhabria, but Chhabria did not pay him around ₹18 crore (towards the spare parts),” said an EOW officer. Chhabria had allegedly also taken some amount as loan from Ramani by “luring him” to invest in a business. “With interest, the loan amount has now gone up to ₹4.12 crore which Chhabria owes to the complainant,” the officer added. Acting on the complaint, police have booked Chhabria, his wife Cherry, son Bonito, his daughter-in-law Anushree and sister Kanchan for criminal breach of trust and cheating.Chhabria, known for giving futuristic makeovers to cars, was arrested by the criminal intelligence unit (CIU) of Mumbai Police’s crime branch on December 29 in connection with a car financing and dual registration racket. Later, actor and comedian Kapil Sharma registered a complaint with Versova police alleging that Chhabria had taken ₹5.7 crore from him for designing a vanity van but did not deliver it. Sharma approached CIU on January 7 and said in his statement that he had asked Chhabria to design a vanity van in 2017 and paid him ₹5.3 crore between May 2017 and 2018. In July 2018, Chhabria allegedly demanded ₹40 lakh more as GST, which Sharma paid but Chhabria allegedly did not deliver the van.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-car-designer-dilip-chhabria-arrested-in-rs-22-crore-cheating-case-101612186168757.html
01-02-2021||Kolkata||BJP plans to organise five mega rath yatras in poll-bound Bengal||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is planning to organise five mega rath yatras to bolster its poll campaign ahead of the crucial assembly elections due this year in West Bengal. Top BJP leaders in the state said that the party’s national president JP Nadda is expected to launch the first rath yatra on February 6. All five rath yatras have been named parivartan yatras. Union home minister Amit Shah, who had to cancel his two-day visit to the eastern poll-bound state on January 30 and January 31 because of the explosion near the Israeli embassy in New Delhi on Friday, is also likely to come to Bengal and launch at least two rath yatras next week. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is also likely to come to West Bengal on February 7 to attend a programme in Haldia in east Midnapore. Also Read: Nirmala Sitharaman’s budget speech underlines govt’s focus on poll-bound states“We are planning to organise five rath yatras in the five organisational zones in West Bengal. Each yatra will run for at least 20-25 days and together cover all the 294 assembly constituencies in February and March,” said a senior BJP leader. The BJP has sought permission from the state secretariat at Nabanna and a letter was sent to the state’s chief secretary on Monday seeking his appointment. “Along with each rath yatra, multiple padyatras will be organised to bolster the campaign ahead of the assembly elections and boost the morale of the party workers and supporters. It will be a mega outreach programme,” said a senior party leader. Buoyed by its impressive gains in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls when the party won 18 of the 42 seats, the BJP has set a target of winning more than 200 seats in the 294-seat legislative assembly. “It is their own party programme and they can do whatever they want after taking the due police permission. But it will fetch them no advantage and they will lose the elections. They will not be able to reach three digits in the elections,” said Saugata Roy Elections can be held in March-April this year and the poll dates can be announced any time in February, according to officials in the poll panel.While the first rath yatra will be launched on February 6 from Nabadwip and will culminate at Barrackpore, the next two will be launched on February 8 from Cooch Behar in north Bengal and Kakdwip in south Bengal. The last two will be launched on February 9 from Jhargram and Tarapith in south Bengal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bjp-plans-to-organise-five-mega-rath-yatras-in-poll-bound-bengal-101612185628858.html
01-02-2021||Kolkata||BJP seeks permission from Bengal govt for rath yatra||The West Bengal BJP has sought permission from the state government for its month-long 'rath yatra' across the state ahead of the assembly polls.BJP state vice-president Pratap Banerjee, in a letter to Chief Secretary Alapan Bandopadhyay, said the saffron camp, beginning February, intends to take out five rallies, as part of the 'rath yatra', crisscrossing the entire state."West Bengal State Bharatiya Janata Party has decided to carry out a peaceful political programme throughout West Bengal in the form of 'yatra' in the months of February and March 2021."There will be five segments -- covering all the assembly constituencies of West Bengal. Each yatra will include a 'rath' and will run simultaneously in different segments/territories of the state," the letter said.The duration of each yatra would be of approximately 20 to 25 days, it stated.Several top BJP leaders are scheduled to arrive in Bengal during the month-long campaign, set to take off from Nabadwip, Coochbehar, Kakdwip, Jhargram and Tarapith on February 6, 8 and 9.According to sources, the state secretariat has received the letter."The broader purpose of this communication is to appraise you about the gamut of the program so that administration may prepare the modalities of relevant support system for peaceful conduct of the programme."We want to seek an appointment with you..." Banerjee said in his letter to the chief secretary.Earlier, in 2018, the BJP had planned a similar rath yatras across the state, but the programme was called off at the very last moment as the state government refused to give permission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bjp-seeks-permission-from-bengal-govt-for-rath-yatra-101612184922804.html
01-02-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s logs 121 fresh Covid-19 infections, active cases further drop to 1,265||Delhi on Monday added 121 fresh cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and three more related deaths which pushed the overall tally and death toll to 635,217 and 10,856 respectively. More than 623,000 people have recovered so far after 214 fresh discharges and the active cases of Covid-19 further dropped to 1,265, according to the Delhi health department’s bulletin. The positivity rate currently stands at 0.28%.Authorities carried out 43,712 Covid-19 tests in the last 24 hours out of which 14,342 were rapid antigen tests and the remaining 29,370 were RTPCR/CBNAAT/TrueNat tests. The positivity rate, which is the percentage of people who detect positive for Covid-19 out of those who have been tested, currently stands at 0.28%. A total of 640 people are under hospitals/Covid care centres/Covid health centres while 504 were under home isolation, the bulletin showed.As many as 140 fresh cases, four more deaths and 211 discharges were added on Sunday which had pushed the total caseload to 622,882. Since the beginning of this year, Delhi has seen a considerable decline in its daily tally. On January 27, only 96 new coronavirus disease cases were added, which have been the lowest in the past 10 months.Also Read| India doubles healthcare spending, opens up insurance in "get well soon" budgetHealth minister Satyendar Jain said that hospital admissions on that day were also the lowest at 37, of which 12 were from outside Delhi. He urged people to keep wearing masks and follow social distancing rules to keep themselves and their families safe.“First time less than 100 positive cases in the last 10 months. Lowest 37 hospital admissions including 12 persons of outside Delhi. Wear Mask and follow social distancing to keep yourself and your family safe,” Jain had tweeted.Meanwhile, India logged 11,427 new coronavirus disease cases and 118 deaths on Monday taking the country’s tally to over 10.75 million, according to the Union health ministry’s update at 8am. The recovery rate is at 97 per cent with the ministry adding that it is one of the highest globally.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-logs-121-fresh-covid-19-infections-active-cases-further-drop-to-1265-101612183424974.html
01-02-2021||Lucknow||'UP government making false job claim': State AAP student’s wing chief||Chatra Yuva Sangharsh Samiti (CYSS), the student’s wing of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), has alleged that the Uttar Pradesh government is trying to mislead people by making a false claim of providing 3.75 lakh government jobs to youths of the state in nearly four years time.Addressing a press conference in the state capital on Monday, CYSS state chief Vanshraj Dubey said that to find out the truth, an RTI application was filed on January 25 in the appointments and personnel department.“In its reply, the department said there’s no record available in the department about the number of government jobs made available to the youths,” Dubey said.Also read: Budget 2021 -'We have spent and we have spent', says Nirmala SitharamanHe said it was shocking that at a time when chief minister Yogi Adityanath is claiming that his government has given jobs to 3.75 lakh youths “in a partial and a transparent manner,” the RTI reply said there’s no record on the subject.Dubey said he fears now the youth of the state may have to do something like what the farmers are doing on Delhi’s borders to register their protest against the government's false claim.Dubey further alleged that by organising investors’ summits and signing MoUs with multiple companies, the state government claimed that it will bring investment to the tune of thousands of crore rupees. He alleged that instead, the government spent several crore rupees from the state exchequer without much return.Chief spokesperson of AAP, UP, Vaibhav Maheshwari also took potshots at the “central government’s anti-farmer policy.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-government-making-false-job-claim-aap-student-s-wing-101612181821993.html
01-02-2021||Other||Feral dogs in HP’s high-altitude areas pose threat to wildlife, livestock||The presence of feral dogs in high-altitude areas of Himachal Pradesh has raised concerns as they not only threaten the livestock, but adversely impact globally significant species such as snow leopard, according to a survey conducted by the forest department’s wildlife wing. The issue is more acute in the Spiti region. The survey conducted in collaboration with the Zoological Survey of India (ZSI), Kolkata, concluded that feral dog density was found to be 2.78 individuals per 100 square km on an average ranging from 1.4 to 5.5 individuals in the Lahaul and Pangi landscape. The survey was conducted under United Nations Development Programme’s (UNDP’s) SECURE Himalaya Project. Such dogs are reported to be leading to biodiversity loss, depredations of wildlife species, and also competing with large carnivores such as the snow leopard, said principal chief conservator of forests (wildlife) Archana Sharma. She said globally, few studies were available which documented the impact of feral dogs on wildlife. “In order to understand the distribution pattern, population status, feeding resources and impact in Lahaul-Pangi landscapes, the survey was conducted,” she added. Camera traps, trail sampling used The wildlife department used camera traps and trail sampling to assess the feral population which is threatening the wildlife as well as the livestock in the region. “A multipronged approach of camera trapping, trail sampling, non-invasive genetics and questionnaire survey was used to gather information,” said Dr Lalit Kumar Sharma, scientist, ZSI, Kolkata. Chief conservator of forest (wildlife)-cum-state nodal officer, SECURE Himalaya project, Anil Thakur said according to the ZSI report, the micro-histological analysis of the feral dogs suggested that they feed on species such as marmot, blue sheep and rodents, but their main diet is domestic livestock, which is a matter of great concern. Time for mitigation planningHe said though the population density of feral dogs in the surveyed landscape was not alarming, this was the right time to start a mitigation planning of this imminent threat in these high-range Himalayan ecosystems. “If required, long-term monitoring and more intensive studies will be undertaken to understand possible impact by feral dogs on wildlife using the different monitoring protocols,” he added. Dr Manoj Thakur, state project officer, SECURE Himalaya, said on the basis of findings of this report, the state forest department and UNDP in collaboration with other line departments and local community-based organisations will start the implementation of strategy proposed by ZSI for management under which dog sterilisation and awareness activities on responsible dog ownership will be undertaken on priority this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/feral-dogs-in-hp-s-high-altitude-areas-pose-threat-to-wildlife-livestock-101612177109112.html
01-02-2021||Other||Monday Musings: Famers’ protests - a political hot potato always too hot to handle||PUNE It was the monsoon of 2011 when the then chief minister Prithviraj Chavan had firmly taken over the state administration, nine months after he took charge of a post he was chosen for by surprise by the Congress high command in the light of the Adarsh case.Maharashtra had seen a change in the leadership as the Congress replaced Ashok Chavan with Prithviraj Chavan, a suave politician, who, till then, was serving in the Prime Minister’s office as junior minister. Everything was going smoothly for the new CM and his cabinet when a small farmers’ agitation turned big – and in the process cost the Congress and the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) politically in the 2014 elections. A bunch of farmers from Maval in the western part of Pune district opposed a pipeline project that was to bring water from the Pavana river to neighbouring Pimpri-Chinchwad, whose civic body was controlled by NCP leader Ajit Pawar. They were already unhappy because their land was taken over for various projects, including industries and the 95-kilometre long expressway, which connects Maharashtra’s two big cities – Pune and Mumbai. Suddenly, the protests turned violent as farmers from Maval attempted to block the Pune-Mumbai expressway that is used by around one lakh vehicles each day on weekends. To quell the protest and clear the expressway, the police department, led by the late RR Patil of the NCP, resorted to firing. Three persons were killed and 10 injured in the police firing. The top police officials like then Pune district superintendent of police Sandeep Karnik argued that force was used in self-defence. His argument then was: “We had no option when protesters gheraoed some police officials and started throwing stones at them.” To be fair to him, some senior police officials along with constables also sustained serious injuries while controlling the protestors. Interesting was the response from Shiv Sena, which was then in opposition and an ally of the BJP. The Sena chief called Congress-NCP government “killer of its own people”. Its member of Parliament Shrirang Barne made the killing of farmers a poll issue and garnered good support from Maval. It’s been 10 years and state politics has seen a major change. BJP, which then was in opposition, is now ruling the country amidst a fresh challenge of the ongoing farm agitation in Delhi. Many have questioned the Delhi police response although a large number of people endorsed the way Republic Day agitation of farmers was handled. There was a strong provocation from farmers, who crossed barricades; changed designated routes; did not follow instructions related to trollies with tractors; and eventually entered the Red Fort, where they were not supposed to. The police, despite incitement, largely exercised restraint and avoided major violence, which could have spiralled quickly and many would have suffered. The Congress, along with other parties like Shiv Sena and NCP, have blamed the BJP for failing to control farmers entering Red Fort, where they hoisted the Khalsa flag. So on one hand, Congress and NCP are currently part of the state government with Shiv Sena, which then called the two parties “killer” in the case of the Maval firing, for police failure to show restraint. The same outfits blame BJP today for its deliberate soft approach to the Delhi agitation. The BJP on the other hand, which was then in opposition in the Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) is now ruling the civic body and wanted to complete the project to meet thirst of people. RR Patil, who served as home minister of Maharashtra, was perhaps right when he once said: “Police are a punching bag - whether they act or not. They only have brickbats to receive.” Patil, who came from rural parts of western Maharashtra and made it big in the city, is no more today to offer his opinion on what happened in Delhi||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/monday-musings-famers-protests-a-political-hot-potato-always-too-hot-to-handle-101612177107369.html
01-02-2021||Other||Usmani’s Elgar Parishad speech being examined, assures Maharashtra government||Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh said that the police are examining video recording of the speech made by student leader Sharjeel Usmani at Elgar Parishad held in Pune last Satuday to check for objectionable comments. He said any action on Usmani will be based on the police findings.Deshmukh was responding to the demand made by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) of action against Usmani for allegedly saying that the Hindu community had “rotted”, during his address.“We are checking the video recording of the speech made at Elgar Parishad for objectionable comments. Until police have verified the claims, we cannot comment on it,” Deshmukh told reporters on Monday.Addressing a gathering of 500 people at the second edition of the conclave at Ganesh Kala Krida Manch, Usmani allegedly said that the Hindu community has “rotted,” adding, “fourteen-year-old Hafiz Junaid was killed by a mob in a train and no one stopped his attackers. I wonder what they (attackers) do at home after lynching a person. They may have discovered a new way to wash their hands – take bath with some medicine, have food, go for movies, touch the feet of their father and then lynch another person the next day.” BJP state unit spokesperson Keshav Upadhye had asked if chief minister Uddhav Thackeray would take action against Usmani or continue his rhetoric that Shiv Sena has not abandoned Hindutva.“How dare he say the Hindu community has rotted? Will the CM take action against him or continue with his rhetoric that they have not left Hindutva. State home minister Anil Deshmukh should take action against him,” Upadhye said, objecting to Usmani’s comment.The Elgar Parishad conclave was organised by Bhima Koregaon Shaurya Din Prerna Abhiyan, an umbrella organisation of 250 Dalit organisations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/usmanis-elgar-parishad-speech-being-examined-assures-maharashtra-government-101612176207935.html
01-02-2021||Bangalore||Union budget a catalyst that can revive economy: Karnataka CM Yediyurappa||Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Monday said that the union budget “has come as a catalyst that can revive this sluggish economy.”Calling it a pro-poor and pro-middle class budget, Yediyurappa said that the budget presented by union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman will act as a “speed booster” to the pandemic-impacted economy. “It is impossible to expect a better budget amidst the pandemic. Despite that, this is a pro-poor and pro-middle class budget,” he said in Bengaluru on Monday. The union government extended the funding of ₹14,788 crore for phase 2A and 2B of the Bengaluru Metro rail project. “This is the biggest gift to Karnataka from our own finance minister,” Yediyurappa said.Also Read: Budget 2021: Relief for NRIs facing double taxation issue on retirement accountsSitharaman also added that the 278km Bengaluru-Chennai expressway work will be taken up this fiscal. Despite being one of the highest tax contributors to the central coffers, Karnataka has seen a significant amount of revenue loss due to devolution and share in goods and services tax (GST). “Our budget is dependent on how much the Centre gives the state,” said one senior government official, requesting not to be named. The official added that Karnataka has raised the issue of revenue losses with the Centre on all forums and requires capital to fund its schemes and programmes to be proposed in the upcoming budget. Yediyurappa has indicated that the size of the state budget could shrink as a result of Covid-19 and the reduction in funds from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/union-budget-a-catalyst-that-can-revive-economy-karnataka-cm-yediyurappa-101612176148053.html
01-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai local train services resume for everyone: A look at photos on Day 1||Mumbai local train services resumed on Monday for all citizens after remaining shut for more than 10 months in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. There was growing demand to resume services as suburban trains serve as the lifeline for Mumbaikars who commute on a regular basis. The Maharashtra government had earlier allowed emergency staff, teaching and non-teaching staff, practising lawyers, women and disabled people to travel by local trains during the process of phased unlocking.As locals boarded the train for the first time in months, Central Railway's chief public relations officer Shivaji Sutar told news agency PTI that help of local police was being taken to manage the crowd and all authorised entry and exit points and ticket counters have been opened for smooth conduct of the services. "Wearing of masks is compulsory and coordination will be ensured with civic authorities for collecting fines from those who violate the Covid-19 prevention norms," he added.Union railways minister Piyush Goyal had said on Friday that local trains will be available in three time slots - from the start of the day's services to 7am; 12:00 pm to 4:00 pm; and 9:00 pm to the end of the day.Here’s a look at pictures of the crowd boarding Mumbai locals today:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-local-train-services-resume-for-everyone-a-look-at-photos-on-day-1-101612173585675.html
01-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai locals open for public: Long queues seen at Kurla, Dadar, other stations||Long queues of passengers outside booking offices were witnessed as local train services began for the general public on Monday.Despite the Central and Western railways opening all of their booking offices for passengers, long queues were witnessed outside Kurla, Dadar, Nalasopara and Ghatkopar railway stations.Citizens, from Monday, are allowed to commute by local trains between 12pm and 4pm, post 9pm till the last train service of the day, and from the first train service of the day till 7am.While the railways extended the validity of monthly railway passes for passengers who could not travel due to the lockdown, the public rushed to railway stations to get their passes’ validity extended.However, there was no crowding inside local train compartments.Also Read: Mumbai locals open for general public from today; timings restricted“There are people who do not want to travel and have come to the railway station to get their passes extended. I am waiting for 20 minutes just to get a railway ticket at Kurla railway station. There is restricted timing. How will we travel if there is such a long wait?” said Dinesh Trivedi, a Vidyavihar residentSimilar queues were witnessed at Dadar railway station.“There is no crowd inside the local train compartment, but just to reach it took 15 minutes. Despite all the booking offices being open, there are long queues,” said Aditi Thakur, a Dadar resident.Railway Protection Force (RPF) personnel at Kurla, Dadar and Ghatkopar railway stations were seen streamlining and directing queues. Ticket checking staff were also deployed on foot overbridges and suburban railway platforms.There was a queue of passengers outside Nalasopara railway station early Monday morning as well.“At Nalasopara station, there was a bit of crowd in the early hours for renewal of season passes. On explaining to the crowd that time slots beyond 7am till 12am are for nominated categories, they dispersed.” said Sumit Thakur, chief public relation officer, Western Railways. Local train services for the general public were suspended on March 23, 2020 due to the spread of coronavirus in the city.Later, services were resumed for employees working in essential care on July 15,2020. Cancer patients, specially abled commuters, women and lawyers were also allowed to travel by local trains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-locals-open-for-public-long-queues-seen-at-kurla-dadar-other-stations-101612170087673.html
01-02-2021||Mumbai||Court accepts Javed Akhtar’s complaint against Kangana, issues summons to actor||A metropolitan magistrate court at Andheri on Monday issued summons to actor Kangana Ranaut on lyricist Javed Akhtar’s complaint that she made defamatory comments against him during an interview.The writer-poet had approached the magistrate court in November last year. On December 3, his statement was recorded by the magistrate under the process of verification of the complaint. Later, the court directed the Juhu Police to hold an enquiry and submit their report before it on the allegations made by Akhtar. On Monday, the Juhu Police filed its report, following which, the court ordered Ranaut to appear before it on March 1.Also read | Mumbai Police summon Kangana Ranaut in defamation case filed by Javed AkhtarAkhtar, through his lawyer Niranjan Mundargi, had filed a private complaint against the actor under Section 499 (Defamation) and Section 500 (punishment for defamation) of Indian Penal Code.He has claimed that he has been in the industry for more than 25 years and Ranaut has defamed him during one television interview, claiming that he threatened her to withdraw case against Bollywood actor Hrithik Roshan.It is contended that Ranaut has called him a part of the ‘suicide gang’ and that he threatened her, allegedly saying if she didn’t back out, she will have no option but to die by suicide. Akhtar said because of such comments, he received so many calls and messages, criticising him and he was trolled on social media. He claimed that such comments caused damage to his reputation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/court-accepts-javed-akhtar-s-complaint-against-kangana-issues-summons-to-actor-101612167267699.html
01-02-2021||Mumbai||Boarding wrong train no ground to deny railway accident claim: Bombay HC||A person cannot be termed as unauthorised passenger for accidentally boarding a wrong train and compensation cannot be denied to his family only on that ground, Nagpur bench of the Bombay high court held recently, while allowing the railway accident claim of a 54-year-old from Tumsar tehsil of Bhandara district in Maharashtra.Directing railways to pay ₹8 lakh as compensation to Munnibai Chaube, a single judge bench of justice Anuja Prabhudessai also said the amount should be deposited directly in the claimant’s bank account within three months.Chaube’s son, Vikki, met with an accident while travelling from Nagpur to Tumsar on Lokmanya Tilak Terminus - Howrah Janeshwari Express on December 12, 2012. He fell off the running train near Mundikota railway station and was taken to nearby KTS Hospital, where he was declared brought dead.Also read | Groping without skin contact not sexual assault, rules Bombay High CourtIn 2013, Chaube moved the railway claims tribunal at Nagpur. The tribunal accepted that the woman was dependent on the deceased, that the death had occurred in an untoward incident and the deceased had a journey ticket for travel from Nagpur to Tumsar Road. The tribunal, however, dismissed Chaube’s claim mainly on the ground that the ticket was not valid for Janeshwari Express, compelling the woman to move the high court in appeal.The high court accepted her claim after noticing that the victim had boarded a wrong train. “He cannot be branded as an unauthorised passenger merely because he had mistakenly boarded a wrong train,” said justice Prabhudessai while reversing the tribunal order. The judge added that it was an untoward incident, as contemplated under the Railways Act, and “the Tribunal was, therefore, not justified in rejecting the claim solely on the ground that the victim had boarded a wrong train”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/boarding-wrong-train-no-ground-to-deny-railway-accident-claim-bombay-hc-101612166307810.html
01-02-2021||Other||Godown collapses in Maharashtra’s Bhiwandi; worker rescued, more feared trapped||A godown located at Harihar compound, Mankoli, in Bhiwandi, Maharashtra, collapsed around 10.25 am, officials of Bhiwandi Nizampur City Municipal Corporation (BNCMC) fire department said. Around seven to eight workers are feared trapped under the debris. “Our team reached the spot and has initiated rescue operations. According to locals, seven to eight workers could be trapped under the debris,”said BNCMC chief fire officer Rajesh Pawar. The regional disaster management cell of Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC-RDMC) has also left for the spot. “Three fire tenders of the Bhiwandi fire brigade have reached the spot. Our team is on the way and we have also informed the national disaster response force for help,” said TMC- RDMC chief Santosh Kadam. Earlier, in September last year, 38 people had lost their lives after the Jilani building collapse in Bhiwandi. The BNCMC had set up an inquiry committee to inspect all the illegal and dangerous structures in Bhiwandi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/godown-collapses-in-maharashtra-s-bhiwandi-worker-rescued-more-feared-trapped-101612165107628.html
01-02-2021||Delhi||Farmers’ protest: Traffic snarls in Delhi as many border points remain closed||Massive traffic snarls were reported in many parts of eastern, southern and central Delhi on Monday morning because of the closure of the Ghazipur-Ghaziabad border, Delhi-Meerut expressway and NH-9, NH-24 roads amid the ongoing farmer’s protest. Closure of the Ghazipur border, heavy police deployment and checking of vehicles at alternate border points have led to massive traffic snarls and bumper-to-bumper traffic on the roads connecting southern and central Delhi with the eastern parts of the city. Deputy commissioner of police (east) Deepak Yadav said that apart from the Delhi-Meerut expressway, all the carriageways of NH-9 and NH-24 were closed since Sunday night due to the farmers’ protest. “But as the closure of the roads caused a massive bottleneck, one carriageway on NH-24 going towards Delhi has been opened for traffic. The other roads are still closed. No vehicles are being allowed on these roads for people going towards east Delhi or Ghaziabad,” said DCP Yadav. Also read | DMRC closes gates of Tikri Border, other Metro stationsDelhi Traffic Police officials said that traffic is being diverted on other routes such as Vikas Marg, DND, and those in south and north Delhi. Among the roads that have been witnessing traffic jams are both the carriageways of Road No-56 between Ghazipur and Dilshad Garden via Anand Vihar ISBT, Vikas Marg (both carriageways), Ring Road (towards south Delhi and central Delhi), DND, and Ashram Chowk.As motorists faced inconvenience and complained about the traffic chaos on social media, the Delhi Traffic Police also used the same platform to update people about the traffic diversions and the suggested alternate routes. According to traffic police officials, heavy traffic was witnessed at the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh (Ghaziabad) borders such as EDM Mall, Maharajpur, Surya Nagar, Apsara, Bhopra, Kondli and Loni borders as vehicles were diverted to these routes because of the closure of the UP Gate border where farmers are protesting against the three farm laws. “There have been inputs that farmers may try to enter Delhi and cause disruption. They had earlier given a call to reach Parliament on February 1 during the budget session. Although they postponed this march, we are not taking chances now after how they resorted to violence on January 26,” said a senior police officer, who did not wish to be named. According to the officer, the decision on opening other roads will be taken later in the day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/farmers-protest-traffic-snarls-in-delhi-as-many-border-points-remain-closed-101612164208425.html
01-02-2021||Other||Now, a special postal cover on UP’s R-Day Ram Temple tableau||UP’s winning tableau at this year’s Republic Day parade in New Delhi will be immortalised with a special postal cover. The department of posts, in association with Sangam Philatelic Club which is preparing the design, has begun work on the special postal cover. The tableau, depicting the Ram Temple, was adjudged the best and awarded by Union minister Kiren Rijiju on January 28. Its theme was “Ayodhya: Cultural Heritage of Uttar Pradesh”. “The plan is to issue the special postal cover by March 2021 and donate funds generated through its sale for the construction of Ram Temple in Ayodhya,” said Sangam Philatelic Club general secretary M Gulrez. “Our team is working on the design of the proposed special postal cover. The documents will soon be sent to chief post master general-Lucknow for approval,” he added. Gulrez said that the plan is to print 5,000 to 10,000 of these special postal covers as part of the initiative. However, the final numbers and the cost of the cover would be decided only after the approval of the proposal by the department of posts, he said. This will not be the first time that the department of posts and Sangam Philatelic Club are bringing out a special postal cover on Lord Ram. A special postal cover, in honour of “Shri Ramlala Temple’ of Ayodhya, was released at the head post office, Civil Lines, Prayagraj, on Diwali eve in November 2020. The special cover was conceived by M Gulrez and designed by Rajiv Mishra of Sangam city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/now-a-special-postal-cover-on-up-s-r-day-ram-temple-tableau-101612159047461.html
01-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: 19-year-old man steals from friend’s house; arrested||The Colaba Police have arrested a 19-year-old man for allegedly committing theft at the house of a girl he was in a relationship with. The girl had reportedly given him the duplicate keys to her house so that he could visit her whenever her family was away.However, when the girl and her family were away recently, the man allegedly stole valuables worth ₹13 lakh from the house. The police claim to have recovered stolen ₹2 lakh in cash and an iPhone from the accused.According to the police, the accused met the girl on Instagram a few months ago before they started seeing each other. Also read | Minor among 4 held for theft of jewellery worth ₹55.5 L in PuneThe girl’s father is a chartered accountant. The accused hails from Mazgaon.The police said that recently, when the girl’s family planned to go out, she initially decided to stay back so she could spend time with the accused. However, her father did not allow her to stay alone so ultimately, the whole family went. The man, who had the keys to the house, decided to make the most of the change in plans. In the family’s absence, he allegedly stole valuables total worth ₹13 lakh from the girl’s house.When her family returned, on January 27 they lodged a police complaint and a case of theft was registered at Colaba police station. Investigation revealed that there was no sign of forced entry like breaking of lock or entry through window etc. and police realised that the thief most likely used a key to unlock the door.“The family had pointed fingers at the girl, as she had sought to stay back. After sustained questioning, she told the family that she had given a key to her friend. The police then detained the man who admitted to having committed the theft,” said a police officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-19-year-old-man-steals-from-friend-s-house-arrested-101612157967134.html
01-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai Covid cases rise even as Maharashtra registers a dip||Even as the Maharashtra government has allowed general public to use Mumbai local trains from today, state capital has seen a spike in the number of Covid-19 cases in January in comparison to December 2020. The state, so far, has recorded 2,026,399 Covid-19 cases, of which 45,071 are active ones.An analysis of the health department data shows that Mumbai recorded 9,969 cases in December, which rose by nearly 56% to add 15,539 cases in January. During the same period, the state recorded a 13% dip in cases while the number of deaths also saw a 34% drop. Maharashtra added 108,216 cases in December, while 94,287 were reported in January. Likewise, while the state logged 2,370 deaths in December, there were 1,561 fatalities in January.Also read | Cinema halls, theatres to run at full capacity from Monday: All you need to knowA state health department official said, “Cases in Mumbai could have seen an upswing due to increased and targeted testing. Also, there is an increased surveillance of people travelling from UK, UAE, South Africa. These are some factors, but overall, there’s is no sign of an increased viral activity in the city,” said a health department official. Meanwhile, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said Covid-19 week-on-week growth has shrunk to 0.12%, which was double the previous week. Mumbai has so far recorded 308,975 Covid cases, of which 5,800 are active. The city’s death toll was 11,352.On Sunday, Maharashtra reported 2585 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the tally to 2,026,399. It also reported 40 fatalities, pushing the death toll to 51,082. Mumbai, meanwhile, reported 483 new cases and seven deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-covid-cases-rise-even-as-maharashtra-registers-a-dip-101612157727252.html
01-02-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt rejigs finance dept weeks ahead of state budget||The Delhi government has restructured its finance department to improve coordination and prevent overlap of work, senior government officials said on Sunday.The government has now compartmentalised the department into six divisions within it - administration, human resource, state resources, budget, expenditure, and policy, and appointed in-charges for each.The reorganisation comes while the finance department has started the process of preparing Delhi’s 2021-22 budget, which is expected to be tabled by the end of February.March, before the next fiscal begins, will mark a year since the Covid-19 pandemic first hit the Capital, pushing its revenue down nearly 30% even after the lockdown, according to government data.Prior to the reorganising order issued by state finance secretary Sandeep Kumar dated January 11, 2021, Delhi government’s finance department broadly had only four branches — accounts, budget, expenditure and administration.Following this reorganisation, a second order was issued on January 12 wherein the government defined which officer would be in-charge of each division. The second order stated that while each of the six branches will have a “division in-charge”, each will also have a “controlling officer” — the two special secretaries of the finance department — to oversee all work and fix accountability.“In any government, officers keep getting transferred. There have been major confusions and work overlap, because officers never had clearly defined roles or scope within the finance department. Many times, a file would keep shifting from one table to another even within the same department. So, with these two orders now, the job roles of each officer and their workflow has been defined clearly,” said a senior finance officer on condition of anonymity.A senior official in Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s office said such “reorganisations” are being considered for other departments of the Delhi government as well.“A similar restructure is being worked on in the government’s grievance redressal cell, and a similar plan is being explored in the general administration department as well,” the officer said.As the process to draw up the year’s budget begins, the finance department has asked all departments to submit revised estimates and outline additional funds they need, on the basis of the projects being worked on.Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, who is also Delhi’s finance minister, is likely to convene his first Delhi budget-related meeting this week.Senior officials said the fund allocated for Covid-19 which in last year’s budget was just ₹50 crore, is going to be increased this time.Another big ticket scheme that will be repackaged and announced in the budget will be health cards for all Delhi residents.Health sector is likely to get one of the highest share of funds, which some senior officials said could be even more than the education sector this time.As for the Union budget, which will be presented on Monday, the Delhi government has demanded that the national capital be treated at par with the Union territory (UT) of Jammu & Kashmir regarding its share of central taxes and central assistance to UTs, and the Disaster Response Fund. It has also asked the Central government for additional funds to ease the financial crunch being faced by the three municipal corporations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-rejigs-finance-dept-weeks-ahead-of-state-budget-101612155680566.html
01-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai locals open for general public from today; timings restricted||After nearly 10 months, Mumbai’s suburban train services have been opened for general public with some.restrictions from today. Commuters can now allowed travel in the following time slots: from the first train service to 7 am; between 12 pm and 4 pm; and from 9 pm to the last service of the day.They also have to mandatorily wear face masks while travelling and those found without them will be fined ₹200 by the Government Railway Police. In order to control crowds and provide easy access to passengers, the Central and the Western Railway have deployed Railway Protection Force personnel and its commercial department staff at the entrance and exit of the railway stations as well as on the railway platforms. Passengers who could not use their railway monthly season passes due to the lockdown will also be able to extend their validity.Also read | Mumbai locals: Piyush Goyal appeals for ‘safe journey’“Railways has made provision of extending the validity of season ticket to the number of days lost due to the lockdown by re-validating the season railway ticket.” said Sumit Thakur, chief public relation officer, Western Railway.Passengers can also book railway tickets through the Unreserved Ticketing System mobile application.Local train services for the general public were suspended on March 23,2020, due to the spread of coronavirus in the city. Later, services were resumed for employees working in essential care on July 15. Cancer patients, specially abled commuters, women and lawyers were also allowed to travel by the local trains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-locals-open-for-general-public-from-today-timings-restricted-101612154967154.html
01-02-2021||Delhi||Delhi allows 200 guests at weddings in closed halls, no limit on open spaces||The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) has removed the restriction of allowing only 50 persons per wedding function in the national Capital. In an order issued by chief secretary Vijay Dev, the DDMA relaxed the cap on the number of guests to now allow up to 200 persons in banquet halls or closed spaces for weddings. Apart from weddings, the DDMA has also allowed similar gatherings of up to 200 people in closed spaces for funerals or any other congregations of social, religious, sports, entertainment or cultural nature.The DDMA also issued a set of standard operating procedure (SOP) for weddings and other forms of gatherings in the city. In closed spaces, a maximum of 50% of the hall capacity will be allowed, with a ceiling of 200 persons. In open spaces or grounds, the number of permissible persons will depend on the area of the venue.The order implied that if someone is planning a bigger wedding or any event with more than 200 persons, then choosing an open space would be a better option since there is no specific cap on the number of persons mentioned in the document. Wearing of face masks, maintaining social distancing, provision for thermal scanning and use of hand wash or sanitiser will be mandatory, it stated. The SOP stated that organisers should also promote simple public health measures at the events to prevent the spread of Covid-19.All public utility areas, such as food stalls and stage will have to be sanitised prior to the event. Common bins for disposal of face masks, multiple hand wash facilities, separate entry and exit gates, and circulation of outdoor air should be increased as much as possible, the order said. While only asymptomatic persons will be allowed, the rules also stated that entry of guests will have to be regulated at the venue to ensure it does not exceed the upper limit at any time. For closed spaces, the air-conditioners should be set at temperature of 24-30 degree Celsius with a relative humidity of 40-70%, said the document. If someone falls ill, then the guest will have to be immediately isolated and be taken to the nearest medical facility or the district officials should be contacted. Ramesh Dang, president of Delhi banquet federation, said the relaxation will give a much needed boost to their business. “We already have several bookings. With the relaxation in guest numbers, we hope our bookings will increase. The decision has come a bit late as it’s already over a month since the wedding season started. But, thankfully, now we will not lose bookings for such events to the neighbouring cities of Gurugram and Noida where more guests have been allowed for a while now,” he said. On Sunday, the DDMA also allowed cinema halls to operate to full capacity and permitted swimming pools to be opened to the general public. It also allowed organising of trade exhibitions and sports events in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-allows-200-guests-at-weddings-in-closed-halls-no-limit-on-open-spaces-101612151307025.html
01-02-2021||Other||Tiger’s carcass found in Bihar’s Valmiki Reserve||A tiger’s carcass was found in the forest of Valmiki Tiger Reserve (VTR) in Bihar’s West Champaran district on Saturday.Confirming the death, officials said on Sunday that the carcass was recovered near Sirisiya forest area under Gobardhana forest range of VTR.“Prima facie, it appears that the death occurred due to the injuries sustained in a fight with another wild animal in the forest. The tiger was 3-4 years old. However, the age and exact cause of death would be known only after we get the postmortem report,” said Ambrish Mall, divisional forest officer (DFO), Division One, VTR.Also read | Rhino kills forest department staff in Assam’s Kaziranga National Park“We are investigating the death from all the possible angles, including poaching, fight with other animals and diseases,” said HK Rai, wildlife conservator and field director, VTR.Meanwhile, Rai also said that the number of big cats in VTR has increased. “We are tracking the number of animals, especially tigers, in the forest areas via camera and this exercise will continue till February 15. The number of the tigers has certainly risen,” Rai said.Spread over 900 square kilometres, VTR, which is broadly divided into two divisions, is home to a number of wild animals like tigers, leopards, bears and rhinoceros.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tigers-carcass-found-in-bihar-s-valmiki-reserve-101612150346931.html
01-02-2021||Delhi||Day after cold wave, Delhi wakes up to fog; mercury may rest at 5°C||Delhi woke up to a foggy morning on Monday with the minimum temperature likely to reach 5 degree Celsius (°C) a day after the cold wave. On Sunday, the minimum temperature had dropped to 3.1°C which is 5°C below normal. It was the fourth cold wave day in Delhi in a week. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has also forecast that a fresh Western Disturbance is expected to pass over Delhi-NCR, causing thunderstorm and light rain over the region on February 4 and 5. Delhi also recorded seven cold wave days in January this year, which is the maximum for the month since 2008, as per IMD recordings. Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said 12 cold wave days were recorded in January 2008. The IMD declares a cold wave if the minimum temperature is recorded below 10°C and the deviation from normal is of four degrees or above. Also read | Widespread rain, thunderstorms likely over NW India this week“Only one cold wave day each was recorded in 2019 and 2020,” Srivastava said, adding that the Capital had recorded six cold wave days in January 2013. He said the increase in the number of cold wave days this month was caused because only one Western Disturbance affected the plains of northwest India this year, leading to more cloudless nights and low temperatures. The northwesterly winds from the snow-clad regions in the Himalayas blowing into Delhi also kept the temperatures low, he said. “Clouds trap some of the outgoing infrared radiation, warming the ground. The minimum temperature falls in the absence of a cloud cover,” he said. Meanwhile, air quality index (AQI) dropped to very poor category on Monday morning. The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) recordings showed that the average hourly AQI was 316 at 7am. On Saturday the AQI was slightly better at 309, but still in the very poor zone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/day-after-cold-wave-delhi-wakes-up-to-fog-mercury-may-rest-at-5c-101612149206851.html
01-02-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt revises cap on number of guests to 200; restrictions on gatherings in open spaces removed||The Delhi government has revised the cap on the maximum number of people gathering for social, religious or cultural events, including weddings and funerals.According to revised guidelines, as reported by news agency ANI, not more than 200 people will be allowed if it is a closed hall. But if it an open space, there won't be any capping, the guidelines further said.This comes a day after banquet and tent house associations in the city appealed to the Delhi government to increase the number of people allowed at gatherings from the current limit of 50, citing the fact that the Covid situation in the national capital has been brought under control for now.The banquet owners said that their businesses have been severely affected due to the restrictions, which were imposed in November last year as the number of Covid-19 cases surged in the city.In November last year, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) had put a cap on the number of guests at weddings and other events at 50. This was done days after the Delhi government had allowed 200 people in social events.The Centre has issued revised containment guidelines for Covid-19, which will be effective from Monday. As per the Centre's standard operating procedures (SOPs), cinema halls have been allowed to function with 100% seating capacity, if they maintain adequate physical distance in auditoriums and common areas.Meanwhile, Delhi recorded 140 cases of the coronavirus disease on Sunday. These cases came out of 60,695 tests conducted the previous day for detection of Covid-19, according to a bulletin issued by the Delhi health department.With four more people succumbing to the disease, the death toll mounted to 10,853.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-revises-cap-on-guests-200-in-closed-halls-no-limit-in-open-spaces-101612148240680.html
01-02-2021||Delhi||Farmers’ agitation: Delhi’s borders remain closed at multiple points||Delhi’s borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh remained closed at multiple points on Monday as the ongoing farmers’ agitation entered its 69th day. Farmers have continued to camp at the Singhu, Ghazipur, and Tikri borders, affecting vehicular movement between Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, and Haryana. The Noida to Delhi carriageway has been closed since the protesters began their demonstration there. The Delhi to Noida carriageway was open. For those coming to Delhi from Uttar Pradesh, Ghazipur border has been closed. The traffic police advised commuters to take routes passing through DND, Karkari Mod, and Shahadra to travel to Ghaziabad. Also read | Congress plans campaign against Centre across states over farm lawsThe entry and exit points between Delhi and Haryana, passing through Singhu, Tikri, Auchandi, Piau Maniyari and Saboli and Mangesh, remain closed. The traffic police have advised commuters to take alternate route via Lampur Safiabad, Palla and Singhu school toll tax borders. Traffic has been diverted from Mukarba & GTK road. It has been suggested to avoid Outer Ring Road, GTK Road & NH-44. The other border routes, such as the Delhi-Gurgaon and Delhi-Faridabad stretches, can be used for travelling between the two states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/farmers-agitation-delhi-s-borders-remain-closed-at-multiple-points-101612148246833.html
01-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai local train services resume for all with timing restrictions||Local train services in the Mumbai region resumed for the general public from Monday. The announcement in this regard was made by Union railways minister Piyush Goyal after the Maharashtra government proposed to resume the services for all commuters.Travel by local trains, lifeline for millions of people living in Mumbai and surrounding satellite towns, was severely restricted after the coronavirus outbreak in March 2020.As suburban trains are the lifeline for Mumbaikars, there was a growing demand to resume services for all. The government took a measured approach to reopen the services as the state has been hit the worst by the Covid-19 pandemic. In phased unlocking, the government allowed emergency staff, teaching, non-teaching staff, practising lawyers, women passengers, disabled people to travel by local trains. But so far, it was not open for all.Goyal had informed on Friday that local trains will be available in three time slots - from the start of the day's services to 7am; 12:00 pm to 4:00 pm; and 9:00 pm to the end of the day.As per the instructions of the Maharashtra government, between 7:00 am to 12:00 pm and from 4:00 pm to 9:00 pm only those engaged in essential services will be allowed to travel, the railway minister said."I urge all of you to follow all the necessary rules and guidelines related to coronavirus during the journey. Any kind of negligence can become a problem for us and others as well. If you will be safe, then everyone traveling with you will be safe," Goyal said.The services of the local trains were resumed for the emergency and essential services staff in June last year. Later on, the authorities permitted women to travel in locals during the non-peak hours.Before the pandemic struck, the Central Railway was operating 1,774 suburban services daily, while the Western Railway operated 1,367 services.Currently, the two railway authorities are operating 2,985 services, about 95 per cent of the total 3,141 services, on Mumbai's suburban network. Of these, 204 special suburban services were added on Friday morning.The state government said in its circular about local trains that it will request all establishments to stagger their work schedule so that employees can benefit from the new schedule.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-local-train-services-resume-for-all-with-timing-restrictions-101612144624302.html
01-02-2021||Bangalore||Amid rumblings, 15 Karnataka BJP MLAs to meet party brass in Capital||Around 15 key Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislators from Karnataka are likely to meet the party’s top brass in New Delhi in the first week of February to discuss changes in the functioning of the state government, ways to develop a second rung of leaders and end family-based politics, among other issues, three people aware of the development said.The legislators, who form an important part of the ruling party, have already held at least two rounds of meetings with party seniors. They maintain changes are required to strengthen the Karnataka unit of party and rectify problems ahead of the 2023 state elections.“We do not have any demands for ministerial berths...we are not going there to complain about the chief minister or his family. We want to suggest how to bring the Narendra Modi model of government here as well which is not the case right now,” said one three-time legislator, requesting anonymity.The legislators are likely to meet BJP national president JP Nadda and general secretary (organisation), BL Santosh, among other leaders.The meetings come after a cabinet expansion and portfolio reshuffle carried out by chief minister BS Yediyurappa led to protests and criticism by those who were left out of the exercise. The 77-year-old politician is trying to douse one crisis after another to retain power.Also read: Vaccination rate best in world in 1st 15 days, says PM ModiWith just two years to go before the elections, the persistent rattle, lack of ideology-based schemes, charges of corruption and factionalism within the government has spooked core party members, who are apprehensive of the impact of such developments on the party’s prospects.“There is no social or regional equity in the cabinet and we want to seek equal opportunities for all workers,” said a second leader who too did not want to be named.A Narayana, political analyst and faculty at Azim Premji University, said the group of legislators meeting the central leadership of the BJP clearly are not in favour of the chief minister.“The BJP is dependent on a powerful bunch of people (turncoats) and any government that has no control over its MLAs cannot run according to party principles or the will of the chief minister,” Narayana said.V Sunil Kumar, the BJP’s chief whip and legislator from Karkala, sent a letter to the state president on December 1 to convene a meeting of all legislators after allegations that the CM was focusing on turncoats ahead of the cabinet expansion.Yediyurappa ceded to dissent from within a section of new entrants, leaving him vulnerable to “blackmail”, the party legislators cited above said.They alleged that Yediyurappa had sidelined the old guard and prioritised turncoats whom he continues to reward for helping bring down the Janata Dal (Secular)-Congress coalition in 2019 and put him in power.“The problem is that BJP was not given an absolute majority in the previous elections and those legislators who rejected the Congress and came to our party have to be placated...,” KS Eshwarappa, the rural development and panchayat raj minister said.The government is also under pressure from the opposition over its alleged non-performance, inadequate flood relief work, farm laws, amendments to industrial and labour laws and the resurfacing of corruption charges against the government.“The government itself was formed on unethical lines with money and blackmail and hence their foundation is weak....The state is suffering and limping along,” said Dinesh Gundu Rao, former Congress state president.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/amid-rumblings-15-karnataka-bjp-mlas-to-meet-party-brass-in-capital-101612143045051.html
01-02-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan local body polls: Congress secures 1,197 wards, BJP 1,140||The Congress party has secured 1,197 wards out of the total 3,035 in the recent Rajasthan Local Body elections, while the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) won 1,140 wards and independent candidates bagged 634.The Bahujan Samaj Party secured one seat, the Communist Party of India (Marxist) secured three, IND secured 634, National Congress Party secured 46 and the Rashtriya Loktantrik Party secured 13.The election was held across 20 districts of the State on January 28.State Election Commission (SEC) Commissioner PS Mehra had earlier informed that 18,510 nomination papers had been filed by 15,101 candidates till the last date of withdrawal. After scrutiny and withdrawal of nomination papers, 9,930 candidates were left to contest for the elections.With the elections taking place amid the COVID-19 pandemic, Mehra had appealed to voters to wear face masks before stepping out to vote."Sanitize your hands before going to the polling booth and wait for your turn while standing on the marked ballots. During the voting, priority should be given to senior citizens and physically disabled people," he had said."5,253 polling stations have been set up for 3,035 wards of 90 bodies. There are total 30,28,544 voters in these bodies, out of which 15,47,974 are men, 14,80,514 are women and 56 other voters will be able to exercise their franchise," he added.An adequate police force has been employed to maintain law and order and conduct peaceful elections during elections."8,328 EVM machines will be used in this election. 5,253 polling stations have been set up for 3,035 wards. The Commission has set up a control room at Jaipur headquarters for immediate redressal of any complaints related to elections," Mehra had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-local-body-polls-congress-secures-1-197-wards-bjp-1140-101612142649340.html
01-02-2021||Bhopal||MP plans to rent out space in mandis to private sector||The Madhya Pradesh government plans to enlist the private sector to develop shopping complexes, medical clinics, petrol pumps, and fertilizer and seed centres in the government-run markets where farmers used to sell their produce, a senior official said.The Madhya Pradesh State Agricultural Marketing Board suffered a dip in revenue to ₹132 crore in the three months ended December from ₹256 crore in the same period last year after the Centre in September passed the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act 2020 that allowed the sale of agricultural produce outside government-run mandis (markets).The mandis record highest revenue during harvest months of April to June and from October to December. There are 259 such mandis and 298 sub-mandis in Madhya Pradesh.“The tax on sale of produce in agriculture markets has been reduced and, according to the new farm law, farmers are free to sell their crop outside [government-run] markets so there is no chance of revival of 259 mandis in the future,” said a board official who spoke on condition of anonymity.He said the state planned to enlist private entities and offer them land in markets to develop retail shopping complexes, petrol pumps, fertilizer and seed centres and so on. “Similarly, the government will give some area to NGOs [non-government organisations] to run medical clinics for farmers,” he said.Another official, who also requested anonymity, said the objective is to motivate farmers to keep coming to mandis. “Services to farmers such as buying seeds and health goods will be provided at subsidised rates through a smart card to be issued by farmers’ welfare and agriculture development department,” the second official said.On the proposal to allow petrol pumps inside mandis, the officials said it would be a viable option because most agricultural markets are on the highways or close by and they would help government earn revenue.Reacting to the proposal, MP Mandi Board Association president BB Faujdar said: “The government is heading towards privatization of Mandis. This plan might be feasible for category A Mandis, which are bigger in size, but what about small grain mandis which are running on government land on lease or rent? This means the government will close small mandis.”Farmers are not enthused by the plan. A farm leader from Sehore, Bhagwan Meena, said: “It is good that the government is thinking about revamping mandis but this is foolish that farmers will go to mandis for shopping. Farmers have no problem in selling their crops in mandis, but it’s traders who don’t want to come to the mandis to purchase crops. I don’t think this plan will work.”Madhya Pradesh Congress Committee spokesperson Ajay Singh Yadav said the government was trying to privatize the mandis.“This model is not to revive the mandis, but this is the first step towards privatization of mandis. We will oppose this move,” said Yadav.Farmers’ welfare and agricultural development minister Kamal Patel said: “If farmers are getting benefit from the new farm law, we have made a plan of inviting businessmen to revive mandis in MP. We are renting space, not whole mandis. The retail shops will be opened in the mandis and farmers will get everything from a needle to tractor and i.e., at subsidized rate like army men, who purchase things from the army canteens at much lower rates.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/mp-plans-to-rent-out-space-in-mandis-to-private-sector-101612141028493.html
01-02-2021||City||Man shoots cousin dead while playing game in Ghaziabad||A 31-year-old man allegedly shot dead his cousin while playing a game following a petty dispute, police said on Sunday.Later, the accused, Salman, turned himself in at a police station and confessed to the killing, Deputy Superintendent of Police (trainee) Sunil Sharma told PTI.The incident took place on Saturday when Salman and his cousin, Shokeen alias Mota, 32, were playing game on a street outside their house, he said.He was rushed to a nearby hospital where doctors declared him brought dead, Sharma added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/man-shoots-cousin-dead-while-playing-game-in-ghaziabad-101612140740717.html
01-02-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM calls all-party meet tomorrow over farmers’ stir||Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh has called an all-party meeting on Tuesday to evolve a consensus on the way forward on the issue of the ongoing farmers’ agitation against the Centre’s three contentious farm laws in view of the recent developments in the national capital.The meeting will be held in Chandigarh wherein the parties will discuss the situation in the wake of the Republic Day violence, the Singhu border attack on protesters and the vilification campaign against farmers, an official spokesperson said on Sunday.Urging all parties to join the meeting in a show of solidarity with the farmers, the CM said the crisis triggered by the farm laws was a matter of concern.Also read: Ready for talks but not under pressure, says Rakesh Tikait“Only through collective efforts of all Punjabis and all political parties, this crisis can be tackled and the farmers’ interests protected. Our farmers are dying at the Delhi borders for more than two months now. They are being beaten by the police and assaulted by goons. They are being deprived of basic amenities,” he said.A large number of farmers from Punjab are at the receiving end, he added.“All political parties will put aside their differences to find a solution. This is the time to come together to save our state and our people,” he stressed.Thousands of farmers have been camping at Delhi borders since November last year to demand a repeal of the three laws. The government has maintained that the laws aim to ease restrictions on farm trade.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cm-calls-all-party-meet-tomorrow-over-farmers-stir-101612129118712.html
01-02-2021||Kolkata||Mamata will be left alone by election time, says Shah||Union home minister Amit Shah on Sunday said that West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee would be left alone in the Trinamool Congress by the time the state polls are held, even as the ruling party accused the Bharatiya Janata Party of insulting the national anthem during its rally.“The way leaders of the Trinamool Congress, CPI(M) and Congress are joining the BJP in large numbers, by the time the election approaches, Mamata Banerjee will not be able to find anyone behind her when she looks back. There would be none to support you,” the senior BJP leader said addressing a rally in south Bengal’s Howrah district virtually.On Saturday, five Trinamool Congress rebels joined the BJP in the presence of Shah in Delhi. The leaders included former minister and Trinamool heavyweight Rajib Banerjee.The development came close on the heels of other resignations from the party. In December last year, senior leader Suvendu Adhikari quit the Trinamool Congress to join the BJP.Watch: Mamata Banerjee will be left all alone, says Amit ShahSenior BJP leaders hinted that more Trinamool leaders are likely to join the BJP over the next few days. Former TMC leader Adhikari said that the BJP will wipe out the ruling party from its bastions. “Between February 2 and February 20, we will clear Kolkata and South 24 Parganas and there would be no leaders left in the TMC,” said Adhikari at the rally on Sunday.Reacting to the Trinamool Congress rebels joining the BJP, party spokesperson Kunal Ghosh said: “These leaders have enjoyed every privilege and enjoyed all facilities over the past 10 years. Now that elections are drawing nearer, suddenly their conscience has surfaced and they are leaving the TMC, bringing all sorts of wild and baseless allegations. Where was their conscience all these years.”Shah, who cancelled his two-day trip to Bengal in the wake of the ongoing farmers’ protests in New Delhi and a low-intensity blast in the national capital on Friday, said that the condition of West Bengal has deteriorated under the Trinamool government.“In the hands of Mamata Banerjee, Bengal has deteriorated further from where the communists had left. You have pushed Bengal backwards in every sphere instead of taking it forward. Hence a wave of change is visible in Bengal today and Didi won’t be able to stop the wave,” Shah said.Accusing the Mamata Banerjee-led government of corruption, Union minister Smriti Irani, who addressed the rally in Howrah, said: “No patriotic person would want to stay in a political party which insults the slogan of Jai Shri Ram.”Irani was referring to Banerjee’s refusal to address an event organised to mark the 124th birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose in Kolkata earlier this month after some BJP supporters raised slogans of “Jai Shri Ram” in the presence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi just before the CM was to begin her speech.The Trinamool Congress, meanwhile, said that the Centre’s ruling party was not aware of the ground realities of the state. “The BJP will not get more than 99 assembly seats in the coming elections. The home minister, instead of speaking on important issues like internal security of the country and infiltrations, is levelling baseless allegations and attacking the chief minister’s nephew. He is not aware of the ground realities of Bengal,” Trinamool MP Saugata Roy said.A controversy has erupted in the state with the chief minister’s nephew and TMC MP Abhishek Banerjee accusing the BJP of insulting the national anthem by singing it incorrectly at Sunday’s rally.“Those preaching about Patriotism & Nationalism can’t even sing our National Anthem correctly. This is the party which claims to uphold India’s honour and pride! SHAMEFUL! Will @narendramodi @AmitShah @BJP4India apologise for this “Anti-National” Act? #BJPInsultsNationalAnthem,” he tweeted, along with a video of BJP leaders singing the national anthem at the rally in Howarh’s Dumurjala.The Left front in the state also hit out at the BJP after the incident. “I had once challenged BJP parliamentarians during the UPA-I tenure. I had said in Parliament that if any of them (BJP leaders) can sing the first eight lines of Vande Mataram, I would resign. There was silence for two minutes. None accepted the challenge,” said Md Salim, leader of Communist Party of India (Marxist).The West Bengal Congress Committee tweeted: “#WrongNationalAnthem On the 46th second of the video “janganamangal dayak” was sung as “janganamangal adhinayak” in BJP’s party hopping meet in Howrah today. What action to be taken against this insult to the national anthem? @INCIndia @adhirrcinc @JitinPrasada.”The BJP, however, refuted the allegations. “There were two Union ministers, at least three former ministers who were earlier in the TMC, several eminent personalities. No one would believe that all of them together sang the National Anthem wrongly. The TMC is doing politics with the National Anthem as it had earlier done with the name of Lord Ram and Netaji. People won’t accept such politics,” said Samik Bhattacharya, BJP spokesperson in the state.The state is due to go to the polls before May this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/mamata-will-be-left-alone-by-election-time-says-shah-101612128326577.html
01-02-2021||Delhi||Colleges reopen today for final-year students||Delhi University (DU) colleges across the city will reopen partially for final-year students from Monday, over 10 months after educational institutes were shut with the enforcement of the lockdown triggered by the coronavirus disease outbreak.The decision to allow students only for “practicals, skill, library and related activities” – announced on Saturday – also mandates the attendance of all staff members of the colleges.In line with the guidelines, several colleges have said they will only conduct practical classes in small batches of students initially.At Ramjas College in North Campus, departmental task forces have been constituted to facilitate the return of students.Students are advised to contact their respective teachers in charge/concerned teachers before coming to the college. A list of Covid-19 Task Groups along with contact numbers department wise is attached,” the notice read.Bijayalaxmi Nanda, principal of Miranda House college in North Campus, said that all the SoPs will be followed and only students of Science courses and those in Geography (Hons) will be coming for laboratory work. “Only 12 third-year students, having practical components in their courses, requested to come back to the hostel. They are expected to come later this week. Only one person will be allowed to stay in one room,” she said.In November, the varsity had allowed postgraduate students of Science courses and MPhil and PhD scholars to return to the colleges for practical work. For graduate students, the university had been shut since March last year in view of the pandemic.DU’s official spokesperson Balaram Pani, who is also the principal of Bhaskaracharya College of Applied Sciences, said the college has sanitised all classrooms and laboratories. “We will follow all SoPs... and allow 10 students in a laboratory at a time,” he said.However, some teachers raised concern over the decision to make it compulsory for the staff to attend physical classes.Abha Dev Habib, member of DU Teachers’ Association (DUTA), said: “There is no point calling all teachers to college. Many of the colleges don’t have a proper internet connection. How will teachers manage to take classes in such a situation?” In its order, the university had said colleges can schedule the timings of the staff members in a staggered manner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/colleges-reopen-today-for-final-year-students-101612128018378.html
01-02-2021||Delhi||NIA may take over probe into blast outside Israeli embassy in Delhi||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) is likely to probe a low-intensity blast that occurred near the Israeli embassy in the national capital on Friday, a news report quoting officials said on Sunday.Investigations by Indian security agencies into the improvised explosive device (IED) blast outside the Israeli Embassy on Friday evening are still not conclusive but the needle of suspicion is pointing towards Iran, with local involvement, people aware of the developments have told HT.The Central Forensic Sciences Laboratory has been asked to examine the explosives used and the kind of equipment used will give a clue to investigators about the attack, an NDTV report said. Mossad, Israel’s intelligence agency, is coordinating with authorities in India over the probe, the report said, adding that NIA is soon likely to launch its probe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/nia-may-take-over-probe-into-blast-outside-israeli-embassy-in-delhi-101612125912910.html
01-02-2021||Other||Awaiting state nod, Thane schools prep to restart in safe mode||Though the local authorities have not yet declared the date for reopening of schools within the urban areas of Thane district, many private schools have completed the initial preparations keeping in mind the current norms of social distancing and sanitation. “The number of Covid-19 cases in the city is under control, but we have not taken a decision yet to reopen schools in the urban areas, keeping in mind the safety of students,” said Thane district collector Rajesh Narvekar. At Euro School, principal Jyotsna Mayadas said they are planning for partially reopening after receiving an official directive from the government. “We have done all the planning related to the school reopening. We have installed battery-operated sprayers on our school buses to ensure thorough sanitisation. Attendants have been trained to conduct temperature checks for all on-board. Children will sit at a distance and there will be a cap on the total number of students in a classroom to ensure physical distancing. The common areas have floor markings to ensure distance is maintained among students and staff at all times.”At Ryan International School in Sanpada, only half the strength of a class would be called to the school. “We have currently planned to continue with our online schooling. Once the school reopens we will have to maintain social distancing and to allow only one student in each bench, we will have to call only half the number of students. The others can attend the classroom virtually,” said school principal Muriel Fernandes.Schools in the rural areas of Thane district had reopened on January 27. They have been following social distancing rules and ensuring that each student’s temperature is checked. Teachers had also been asked to get themselves tested for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/awaiting-state-nod-thane-schools-prep-to-restart-in-safe-mode-101612122325577.html
01-02-2021||Mumbai||45th Raising Day: ₹1,500-crore contraband seized by Indian Coast Guard in 2020||During the Covid-19 pandemic, the Indian Coast Guard (ICG) claims to have seized contraband worth ₹1,500 crore that was being smuggled into the country through the coastline. The ICG was able to intercept more than 10 foreign fishing boats with 80 miscreants illegally operating in the Indian exclusive economic zone (EEZ). After nabbing the suspects, they were handed over to the local police station for further legal action, said an ICG officer. In 2020, 11 cyclones hit the Indian coastline and the ICG conducted rescue operations and saved the lives of around 40,000 fishermen by escorting them back to shore. During the pandemic, patrolling was round the clock and fishing boat checks were conducted, said the officer. The ICG will be celebrating its 45th Raising Day on February 1. In the last 44 years, the ICG has grown into a formidable force, with 156 ships and 62 aircraft, and is likely to achieve targeted force levels of 200 surface platforms and 80 aircraft by 2025. The Coast Guard patrols the distance between the shore and 12 to 200 nautical miles in the sea. ICG is the fourth largest coast guard in the world and plays a very important role in securing coasts and enforcing regulations within the maritime zones of India.In the last 44 years, the ICG has saved over 10,000 lives and apprehended around 14,000 miscreants since its inception in 1977. On average, the Coast Guard saves a life every two days at sea, the ICG officer mentioned in a press note released ahead of Raising Day.“During the pandemic, we maintained a round-the-clock vigil in the exclusive economic zone, by deploying around 50 ships and 12 aircraft daily. Due to the vigil, we managed to seize contraband worth about ₹1,500 crore and apprehend more than 10 foreign fishing boats with 80 miscreants illegally operating in the Indian EEZ in 2020,” said an ICG spokesperson. Last year in September, the Indian Coast Guard doused a fire onboard the 333-metre-long carrier motor tanker New Diamond off the Sri Lanka coast, which was carrying 3 lakh metric tonnes of crude oil. The ICG averted a major ecological disaster and rescued 23 crew members of the tanker.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/45th-raising-day-1-500-crore-contraband-seized-by-indian-coast-guard-in-2020-101612122145694.html
01-02-2021||Other||Integrating air quality, clean energy policies can cut emissions: IIT-Bombay scientists||Integrating existing policies on air quality and clean energy in India can significantly reduce emissions of greenhouse gases (GHGs) up to 1.8 giga tonnes of equivalent carbon dioxide (GtCo2e) in 2030, researchers from the Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B) said. Two researchers from the institute — PhD student Kushal Tibrewal and professor Chandra Venkataraman— set out to assess the benefits (climate co-benefits) of air quality and clean energy policies in the country using multiple metrics such as the global warming and temperature change potentials. Their paper, ‘Climate co-benefits of air quality and clean energy policy in India’, was published in the Nature Sustainability journal on December 14 last year. “We assess climate co-benefits of policies addressing sustainable development goals, specifically air quality and residential clean energy access, to identify which of these might yield significant climate co-benefits and, therefore, be candidates to integrate into the country’s climate action plan,” said Venkataraman, co-author of the study and professor in the department of chemical engineering and associate faculty in the interdisciplinary programme in climate studies at IIT-B. The researchers found that policies on residential clean energy and air pollution regulation by curbing brick production and burning of agricultural residue have greater benefits than the policies on curbing emissions from industries and transportation. “We found residential clean energy programmes, specifically the adoption of liquefied petroleum gas cook stoves and household electrification, deliver significant reductions in emissions of warming short-lived climate forcers (wSLCFs or substances in the air that have shorter lifetime in the atmosphere than carbon dioxide) and related carbon dioxide emissions. However, only specific air quality programmes yield reduction in emissions of wSLCFs,” Venkataraman added. For example, emissions control standards related to sulphur dioxide in electricity generation lead to reduction in sulphate particles. However, since sulphate particles are cooling agents in the atmosphere, their reduction can lead to warming. On the other hand, emission standards in sectors like fired brick production and curbs on agricultural residue burning can significantly reduce emissions of wSLCFs. Integrating these policies can improve emission control, said the researchers. Traditionally the approach towards climate policies has been to look at emissions from electricity generation, transportation and industries separately. “The measures identified in the study are simultaneously linked to improving human health and food security, along with upgrading infrastructure and promoting sustainable cities and communities. Integrating these interventions into national climate policies can bring them under a more stringent surveillance,” she said. “The divergence of the implications of some of the policies focusing on climate mitigation (long-term) and air quality does present a challenge for an economy like India. However, the focus of policy makers must definitely be on improving air quality in the near to medium term as the implications for health of the citizens is long-term and cumulative. The slow pace of roll out of the pollution control retrofits in power plants and the increasing prices of LPG in the post-pandemic period suggests that air quality has been accorded a lower priority,” Karthik Ganesan, fellow, Council on Energy, Environment and Water (CEEW), who was not a part of the project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/integrating-air-quality-clean-energy-policies-can-cut-emissions-iit-bombay-scientists-101612122085738.html
01-02-2021||Mumbai||Covid vaccination: Mumbai’s average turnout is 71%||The city has seen an average turnout of 71.5% at its Covid-19 vaccination centres over the past nine inoculation days — 37,731 health workers of the targeted 52,714 beneficiaries have received their first vaccine shots since January 19, when the drive resumed.On January 16 (day one of the vaccination drive), the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) vaccinated 1,926 health workers, but as the CoWIN app, an automated system developed by the Centre to monitor and track the inoculation process, developed glitches, the drive was put on hold.This is the civic body’s phase one of the drive, meant for 125,000 registered health workers.Dr Mangala Gomare, executive health officer of BMC, said, “To increase the turnout for vaccination, BMC on Saturday held a massive walk-in drive. Any health worker, who had already registered for vaccination, was allowed to walk into any of our 12 vaccination centres. This drive was very successful as we vaccinated the highest number of people so far on Saturday.”On Saturday, BMC vaccinated 6,351 people — an 80% turnout. On Friday, it vaccinated 5,510 people — a 72% turnout; the highest turnout was on January 22, at 92%, when BMC vaccinated 3,539 health workers, followed by January 23’s 90% turnout when BMC vaccinated 4,374 beneficiaries.The civic body has been facing challenges in communicating the date and time of vaccination to beneficiaries. A senior civic officer said, “We have received many complaints from beneficiaries that they did not receive the automated message, or received it late, after the drive for the day was completed, or even the next day. Some beneficiaries are directly receiving messages asking for feedback of their vaccination dose, even though they were not vaccinated as they did not know their turn had come.”Dr Gomare said, “BMC is now doing double work. We are calling health workers from the control rooms set up at the wards, informing them to come in for vaccination. We are not relying on the automated message system. Daily reports of such complaints are being sent to the government.”The civic body also increased the number of vaccination centres to 12 from 11 on January 29, and to 11 from 10 on January 27, to scale its vaccination capacity. In the coming days, BMC will also open vaccination centres at Jumbo facilities in Dahisar, Mulund, and Richarson and Cruddas (RC) in Byculla. The other centres are the four major hospitals — King Edward Memorial Hospital, BYL Nair Hospital, Cooper hospital and Sion Hospital; four peripheral hospitals — Bhabha at Bandra, V N Desai at Santacruz, Rajawadi Hospital in Ghatkopar and Bharat Ratna Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar hospital, Kandivali; the Covid facility at Bandra Kurla Complex; and the state-run JJ Hospital in South Mumbai, NESCO in Goregaon, and Seven Hills hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid-vaccination-mumbai-s-average-turnout-is-71-101612122030450.html
01-02-2021||Other||Mumbai schools go extra mile for Class 10, 12 students ahead of board exams||Before the pandemic hit the city, schools and junior colleges would be busy conducting practice exams, prelims and guidance sessions for Class 10 and Class 12 students around this time of the year, ahead of the state board exams that would take place in February-March. This year however, as schools in the city are closed from the past 10 months owing to Covid-19 and the resultant lockdown, they cannot hold the mock tests and guidance sessions within their premises. This situation left students and parents anxious and schools in a fix. The institutes did not know how to navigate the situation in the beginning. Gradually, many of them found a way around. From introducing a drop box to teaching students in gardens and at their homes, schools and colleges are doing it all to ensure that the board exams, scheduled for April-May this year, go smoothly for the students. At VPM’s Vidya Mandir High School, Dahisar, parents can drop-in solved prelim papers into the drop boxes on designated days. The teachers then check the papers and drop them back, from where the parents can pick up the sheets. “Every year, we conduct practice tests and prelims after the syllabus is over. This year, however, it was not possible to do so due to the lockdown. Hence, we came up with the idea of a drop box. We send papers to students as per the timetable on the Google Classroom created for them and they have to solve the questions within the time given. Parents can then drop the papers in sealed envelopes on the given dates,” said Kshama Valanjoo, assistant headmistress of the school. A Borivli school and junior college received several requests from parents for conducting practice exams at the institute. But with the local authorities not allowing institutes to reopen, the school was unable to call students despite parents’ consent. “We have now made groups of 10 students and have asked them to come to a nearby garden where we gave them the papers. They then solve the paper there and our teachers guide them in person,” said a teacher from the school. KVK School in Ghatkopar used a question paper generator app to digitally create and send papers to students. “Students can submit solved papers in the school and those who are not in the city can post three papers together. We will conduct prelims in the same fashion. A lot of our students cannot afford tuitions, hence we have to help them in all ways possible,” said school principal Jagdish Indalkar. Teachers are also providing guidance lectures and special coaching to weak students. “We have made groups of students and have assigned a teacher to help students solve their queries and guide them from time to time,” said Valanjoo. Prominent junior colleges said that they were still using the online medium for tests on which a large number of students are enrolled. Satram Verhani, vice-principal of CHM College at Ulhasnagar, said that as colleges have a large number of students, it is a challenge to collect physical answer sheets. “We have around 2,200 students and hence we conducted only periodic tests [online] so far. If physical schools and colleges are allowed to partially reopen in the coming days, we will consider some offline options too,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mumbai-schools-go-extra-mile-for-class-10-12-students-ahead-of-board-exams-101612121426611.html
01-02-2021||Chandigarh||Kalka MLA’s hasty suspension is condemnable: Kumari Selja||Haryana Congress Committee president Kumari Selja has raised questions over the disqualification of Pradeep Chaudhary, Congress MLA from the Kalka assembly segment, soon after he was convicted by a court in Himachal Pradesh’s Nalagarh.Selja, who was visiting Karnal, alleged that Haryana speaker Gian Chand Gupta had taken the decision hastily: “The speaker did not even allow Chaudhary to present his stand before the disqualification, which is condemnable. We respect the orders of the honourable court, but the decision of the speaker is surprising and taken in a hurry.”A Himachal Pradesh court had convicted and sentenced Chaudhary to three years in jail in a 2011 rioting case on Thursday. Legal experts say his membership can be restored if the high court (HC) stays his conviction.On the ongoing farmers’ agitation and violence in Delhi , Selja said the government had adopted cheap tactics to suppress this agitation but had failed as the farmers were united .She said that violence in Delhi was the government’s failure. “The administration misled the farmers and they were not given the proper routes promised to them. The farmers had been protesting for the last two months, but the government did not pay any attention to them and tried to create a rift among farmers,” she said, adding that the Congress will take out a peace march in every block of the state in support of ongoing farmers’ agitation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kalka-mla-s-hasty-suspension-is-condemnable-kumari-selja-101612121064899.html
01-02-2021||Other||Mohali MC polls: BJP candidates campaigning without party symbol||Even though Bharatiya Janta Party (BJP) has officially released the list of 29 names for municipal corporation elections, but most of the candidates are campaigning without the party symbol. They have put up banners and posters without the symbol and photographs of any senior party leaders.With Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) snapping ties with the BJP last year due to the contentious agriculture laws, the BJP has decided to contest alone on all 50 seats. In the last MC elections held in 2015, out of total 50 seats, BJP in alliance got 18 seats, but they contested only on 11 seats for the lack of adequate candidates and won only 6 seats.Rakhi Pathak, president of BJP Mahila Morcha in Mohali contesting from ward number 31 has not put any symbol or photograph of any senior leaders on her posters/banners. She said, “I am a little busy filling my nomination papers, will include the party symbol after my nomination.”Mohali BJP secretary and spokesperson Ashok Jha, who is also contesting elections said, “My banners do have the party symbol, except the ones which were damaged by some miscreants at a few places. We are well placed to win the elections.”Another former BJP councillor, Bobby Kamboj, who was denied the party ticket this time, said, “I appeal all the BJP candidates to surrender their party tickets for farmers, who lost their lives during the protest in Delhi. I support the farmer’s agitation. I will contest the elections independently from ward number 27. It is for sure that all 50 BJP candidates will forfeit their security.”BJP’s state executive member Sukhwinder Singh Goldy said the candidates will put the symbol and photographs on their banners once they file the nominations.Local MLA and cabinet minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said BJP will be completely wiped out in the MC elections from Mohali. “There is a strong undercurrent against the saffron party over the farm laws. People have made up their minds to elect Congress,” he said.The municipal body is elected for a period of five years and its previous term ended on April 26 last year. In the last term, Congress had 14 councillors and the SAD-BJP won 23 seats. The Azad group, which was led by former mayor Kulwant Singh won 10 seats and two seats were bagged by independent councillors. In the 2015 elections, 27 councillors, including 10 from Azad group, 14 Congress and two independents, had elected Kulwant as the mayor, but later in August 2017, he joined SAD.20 names released for Kharar civic pollsBJP Punjab state president Ashwani Sharma on Sunday gave his nod to 20 candidates for the Kharar municipal council elections scheduled on February 14. The decision in this regard was taken after a meeting of the State Election Committee (SEC) held under the leadership of Sharma. Kharar election in-charge Vineet Joshi said BJP had announced 20 of the 27 candidates and the remaining will be announced soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mohali-mc-polls-bjp-candidates-campaigning-without-party-symbol-101612120946263.html
01-02-2021||Delhi||DU set to reopen, students scout for PGs, rent accommodations||Delhi University has finally decided to reopen its campus, from February 1, to those final year students who require practical classes in labs, while ensuring all precautions like social distancing are followed amid the pandemic. Professor Rajeev Gupta, Dean, Students Welfare, DU, said, “Campus is opening up for final year students who require a some component of practical lab work in their course. The colleges won’t be hosting any theory classes, and those classes will all continue to be conducted online.” And this has encouraged many students to check out places near their colleges, to enquire and plan their accommodation in PGs as they brace themselves for an offline campus experience. “The biggest challenge for a student studying in DU, who isn’t a day scholar, is accommodation. As DU has started opening up its campus bit by bit, freshers like me have started our preparations like searching for a budget friendly accommodation. I’ve found out that Satyaniketan is a hub for PGs and the range for fee is from six thousand to fifteen thousand. I’m also exploring the option of rented flats because the food in PGs is not that good at times,” says Manish Mourya, a student of Atma Ram Sanatan Dharma College.Some freshers have reached out to senior students to seek guidance in choosing the right accommodation for themselves. And a few seniors have voluntarily come forward to help these students find a suitable accommodation without having to pay brokerage. “The lure for the offline campus experience is clear by the number of calls we are getting in a day from freshers who have started searching for PGs in Delhi. We are getting somewhere between 15 to 20 calls per day from students asking about available accommodations. I offered to help my juniors so that they can find the perfect home away from home for themselves, that too without having to pay the brokerage. Most of us all still going through a financial crises due to the pandemic, and seeing my juniors face financial challenges motivated me to help them find a safe, secure and healthy environment to live. This is the least I can do to help students,” says Vishwesh Tiwari, a student of Sri Aurobindo College. PG owners in and around the campus confirm the increase in footfall of students who are coming to see the flats and bargain the rent. “Students have started visiting the PGs to see whether the place is sanitised or not, what’s the rent, and even enquire about the plans to maintain social distancing between the residents. A lot of students are also asking if the popular hang out zones like Majnu ka Tilla are open to visit now,” says Rakesh Bhasin, owner of a PG near North Campus.Author tweets @FizzyBuddhaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/du-set-to-reopen-students-scout-for-pgs-rent-accommodations-101612120826793.html
01-02-2021||Chandigarh||Police bust gambling, trafficking racket in Banur, 70 arrested||The Punjab Police claim to have busted a gambling and immoral trafficking racket active in Mohali district with the arrest of 70 people, including 10 women, during a late night operation at a marriage palace on the outskirts of Banur.The Organised Crime Control Unit of Punjab Police also seized ₹8.42 lakh in cash, 47 vehicles, 40 liquor bottles, playing cards and laptops from the spot, Punjab director general of police (DGP) Dinkar Gupta said.Acting on the directions of OCCU chief Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh, the raids were conducted at New Life marriage palace around 1am on the intervening night of January 30 and 31. The arrested women were employed as bartenders and dancers.Singh said police learnt of the racket while tracking members of gangster Lawrence Bishnoi’s gang. “Most of the arrested people are from Mohali and Patiala. It is a well-organised gambling racket with links in Dubai,” he said. “The background of all persons is being investigated. Forensic examination of the seized laptops and mobile phones is also being conducted to reveal further details,” the DGP said. A case under relevant sections of the Excise Act, Gambling Act, Immoral Trafficking Act and Indian Penal Code has been registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/police-bust-gambling-trafficking-racket-in-banur-70-arrested-101612120704919.html
01-02-2021||Chandigarh||After senate, term of Panjab University deans also ends without fresh polls||Amid no decision on elections for the senate and syndicate, the one-year term of deans of various faculties of Panjab University also ended on Sunday without selection of their successors.This is probably for the first time since Partition that the varsity has been left without a governing body and deans.Deans are elected by the senators, added members, professors and heads of departments. However, there are no senators available to pick them, as the term of the senate – the apex governing body of PU – ended on October 31 last year.The varsity has already deferred the senate polls twice in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Since, syndicate members are elected from among the senators, elections for the syndicate also hang in balance.According to the PU Calendar, each faculty elects its dean before January 31 every year, allowing the dean and secretary to hold office from February 1 to January 31 of the following year.Keshav Malhotra, who was the dean of business management and commerce, said, “The absence of deans will cripple the entire academic and research process. Students and research scholars will be the worst effected.”Term of BoF members also concludesThe one-year term of members of PU’s board of finance (BoF) also ended on Sunday. The board consists of nine members, four of whom are appointed from among the senate and syndicate members. With no governing body, the election for these four members can also not be held.Former senator Navdeep Goyal, who was a member of BoF, said, “In absence of the board, along with no governing body, things may get worse for the university.”In its official response, the varsity said it was a temporary phase due to an unprecedented situation caused by the pandemic. PU will see to it that work does not suffer in any manner by taking appropriate actions as per PU Act and regulations.Why they are importantDeans preside over faculty meetings where all academic works, including change in syllabus and new courses, are decidedThey are also members of committees for career advancement scheme (CAS) promotion and direct recruitment of teachersMoreover, the research degree committee, that approves synopsis of students, is also chaired by the dean of the respective facultiesThey also guide the university regarding various aspects of several rankingsIn their absence, there is uncertainty on how these processes will go on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/after-senate-term-of-panjab-university-deans-also-ends-without-fresh-polls-101612120645621.html
01-02-2021||Other||Guard kills colleague with hammer in Mumbai to avoid transfer||A 35-year-old security guard working at a construction site in Worli allegedly killed his colleague with a hammer on Saturday night. The police said the accused, Brijesh Kumar Singh, committed the crime because he wanted to keep his job at the site secured. Singh has been arrested for murder and the police were recording the statements of the accused and two other security guards at the time of going to press. According to Worli police, Singh and the victim, 50-year-old Dayashankar Jaiswar, were hired as security guards for Rs25,000 per month each at the construction site in AK Ahire Marg. The officers said that when the duo were at the site for the night shift on Saturday, Singh confronted Jaiswar and accused him of conspiring with two other guards to get him transferred to a site with a lower salary. Jaiswar denied the allegations but an argument ensued between the two men which turned violent in no time. Singh then picked up a hammer and clobbered Jaiswar on his head with it to secure his job, said the police. Two other security guards who were asleep in the nearby cabin woke up after hearing Jaiswar’s screams. When they reached the spot, Singh told them that when he went to the washroom, three men entered the site after jumping the boundary wall and killed Jaiswar when he tried to prevent them from coming to the site. Singh and the other two security guards called their supervisor, who informed the police about the incident. “We reached the construction site and rushed Jaiswar to KEM (King Edward Memorial) Hospital, but he was declared dead on arrival,” said a police officer. The police then registered a case against three unidentified accused. However, during investigation they discovered that there was so sign of any intruder at the site during the murder. “We then detained Singh and questioned him, following which he confessed to murdering Jaiswar with a hammer to secure his well-paid job,” added the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/guard-kills-colleague-with-hammer-in-mumbai-to-avoid-transfer-101612120405573.html
01-02-2021||Other||MSEDCL jobs: Bombay HC to decide on new merit list to include Marathas||The Bombay high court (HC) on Friday directed Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) to file an application before the HC chief justice to club the various petitions filed at the Nagpur and Aurangabad benches and get them transferred to the principal seat at Mumbai. The petitions were filed after MSEDCL refused to appoint Maratha community members in the Economically Weaker Sections (EWS) category for 400 vacant posts. The petitioners who were previously covered by the Socially and Educationally Backward Classes (SEBC) reservation approached HC seeking directions to be considered for EWS reservation as they were eligible to apply under the quota. On January 29, a division bench of justice KK Tated and justice NR Borkar, who were hearing a bunch of petitions filed by various members of the Maratha community, was informed by their lawyers that their clients were aspiring to get a job in MSEDCL pursuant to its advertisement for Kendra Sahayak post which was issued in July 2019. The advocates informed that after HC had upheld SEBC reservation, the petitioners had applied for the said quota in the job. However, after the Supreme Court stayed the implementation of SEBC reservation last year in October, their applications were considered to be from the open category. In an earlier hearing, the counsel for one of the petitioners, advocate Satish Talekar, said though the aspirants could not benefit from SEBC reservation owing to the SC stay, members from the community who are from financially weaker backgrounds could avail EWS quota and hence, applied for it. However, the authorities refused to grant them EWS certificate and hence, MSEDCL did not consider their applications under the quota. The court then asked the officials concerned the reason behind denying the EWS certificates. On January 29, Talekar informed the court that the state had issued a circular on December 23, 2020, clarifying that Maratha community members from the financially weak category could avail benefits under EWS quota, and on producing a receipt of the same, such persons should be considered by MSEDCL. Talekar sought HC’s directions to MSEDCL to revise the existing merit list as the current petitioners names would also have to be featured in it. However, other applicants under EWS category opposed the petitions stating that if the Maratha petitioners are included in the list, it will prejudice their chances of getting appointed. The bench was then informed by MSEDCL that apart from the bunch of petitions and intervention applications before it, there were many similar petitions before the Nagpur and Aurangabad bench of HC too. After hearing the submissions, the court directed MSEDCL to seek clubbing of all the petitions so they may be heard at the principal seat in Mumbai and posted the hearing for the first week of this month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/msedcl-jobs-bombay-hc-to-decide-on-new-merit-list-to-include-marathas-101612119929116.html
01-02-2021||Other||Act against Sharjeel Usmani for defaming Hindu community: BJP to Maharashtra govt||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has demanded action against Sharjeel Usmani, a former student leader, for allegedly defaming the Hindu community during his address at the Elgar Parishad conclave in Pune on Saturday. According to the BJP, Usmani allegedly made defamatory remarks while addressing a gathering of 500 people at the second edition of the conclave at Ganesh Kala Krida Manch. BJP’s state unit spokesperson Keshav Upadhye said that chief minister Uddhav Thackeray would either take action against Usmani or continue his rhetoric that his party Shiv Sena has not left Hindutva. “Will the CM take action against him or continue with his rhetoric that they have not left Hindutva. State home minister Anil Deshmukh should take action against him,” Upadhye said objecting to Usmani’s comment.The Elgar Parishad conclave was organised by Bhima Koregaon Shaurya Din Prerna Abhiyan, an umbrella organisation of 250 Dalit organisations. The Elgar Parishad conclave was first held in 2018 to commemorate the 200th anniversary of the Battle of Bhima-Koregaon of 1818. The conclave was followed by violent clashes at Bhima-Koregaon village, which is located 35km from Pune city. According to the Dalit narrative, the 1818 battle is the victory over casteism, as the British Army, comprising a large contingent of Dalit Mahar soldiers, had defeated the forces of the Peshwa at Bhima Koregaon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/act-against-sharjeel-usmani-for-defaming-hindu-community-bjp-to-maharashtra-govt-101612119205552.html
01-02-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra recorded 92,177 Covid-19 cases in January, shows state data||Maharashtra recorded 2,585 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday, pushing the case count 2,026,399. It has been 329 days since the first case was detected in the state on March 9 last year. Death toll reached 51,062 as 40 casualties were reported on Sunday. A comparative analysis of the figures of the past two months indicates a decline in daily cases with 92,177 cases registered in January, which is much less than December and November where 120,664 and 143,262 cases were recorded respectively, according to the figures provided by the state health department.Of the fatalities recorded on Sunday, 15 occurred in the past 48 hours, nine in the past week while the rest are from the period before last week.Though fresh cases have hit a plateau in the past few months, the state still has 45,071 active cases, which means these many patients are still taking treatment at various hospitals and facilities across Maharashtra. Despite the number of new cases not rising, cases are also not coming down as expected. Experts are not comfortable with the overall progress, saying that the state is still in a dangerous situation as cases are not going down. They further warned that this situation may change for the worse as people have become careless about following Covid-appropriate behaviour.Dr Subhash Salunkhe, chairman, communicable diseases prevention control and technical committee of the state, said the picture is hopeful but no decline in cases also indicates that the state is yet to come out of danger. “Daily cases are hovering close to 3,000 since the past many days. The picture is hopeful. However, it also shows that we are still in a danger zone because the virus activity is stabilised, but cases are not reducing. We were expecting a decline and would be out of danger only if it starts happening,” Dr Salunkhe said.He said the people are not maintaining Covid-appropriate behaviour, which is a matter of concern. “Covid-appropriate behaviour is needed much more now, because we have removed most of the restrictions. From Monday, local train services will resume for the general public. Countries such as Brazil and other European countries where people became complacent are again in lockdown. We are fortunate that we do not have the danger of mutation as of now, but if the situation goes otherwise then we will have to bring back restrictions,” he said.Mumbai clocked 483 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday, taking case count to 308,975. Active cases stood at 5,800. There were seven deaths reported, pushing the toll in the city to 11,352.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-recorded-92-177-covid-19-cases-in-january-shows-state-data-101612119145605.html
01-02-2021||Mumbai||42-year-old Mumbaiite helps patients find way around Sir JJ Hospital||One of the oldest and most prominent government hospitals of Mumbai, Sir Jamshedji Jeejeebhoy (JJ) Hospital at Byculla, sees the footfall of thousands on a daily basis. Here, patients and their relatives are seen manoeuvring their way to reach the right counter after approaching the wrong one. There are also instances of patients leaving without seeing the doctor for lack of some document. The hospital is spread over 43 acres and sees a footfall of up to 5,000 outpatients and 300 admissions on a daily basis as opposed to its capacity of handling 1,352 patients.The overburdened staff at the state-run hospital, where patients come from all corners of Maharashtra, hardly have time to guide the ones who are unable to find their way around the hospital. There have been instances of arguments and fights between patients’ relatives and hospital staffers due to lack of communication.In view of this, 42-year-old Abubaker Qadri, whom the hospital staff call a good Samaritan, has been proactively helping underprivileged or illiterate walk-in patients over the past decade.Qadri, who lives in Pydhonie which is a kilometre away from the hospital, is a regular at Sir JJ Hospital and is often seen holding a bunch of documents along with files of several patients, moving from one department to another. He is known for helping underprivileged patients deal with hospital management for over 10 years, acting as a mediator, and helping them fill out registration forms, enrolling them in available government health schemes, solving issues between staff and patients, and even pulling appointments with doctors.He provides this help free of charge and earns his livelihood through a small side printing business which he runs early in the morning. His wife is a teacher at a private school. The couple collectively earn up to ₹50,000 each month.When asked what motivated him to start helping out patients, he said, “Having spent my teenage years around this hospital, I have witnessed tragic accidents and the hassle that patients and their relatives go through. In 2010, a friend had asked me to help with someone’s admission at the hospital. That was when I saw how clueless patients had to run from one counter to another due to a single mistake in their documentation.”Since then, Qadri continued helping patients in his free time. “I only help those who come through referral. I attend to 10-15 different cases on a daily basis. My family and my mentor Ali Bhai have been my guiding lights,” he said.Answering to why he continues to help people despite no payback, he said, “Allah has given me enough and he has given me an opportunity to help the ones in need; why should I waste it? I don’t need people’s money; their blessings are my reward.” Dr TP Lahane, director of state Directorate for Medical Education and Research (DMER) and former dean of Sir JJ Hospital, said, “Abu(baker) is a good soul. He has helped with a lot of law-and-order situations in the hospital and is always there for the needy.”Qadri spends around six to seven hours a day doing this work, and despite the Covid-19 pandemic, he did not stop. Instead, he crowdfunded and arranged meals for 600 patients at the hospital on a daily basis for three months since the lockdown was announced. One of the senior most health officials at the hospital said, “Abu has been a crucial part of our hospital administration. He has arranged food for patients throughout the lockdown and has earned enormous trust of our staff, which is why all issues of his patients are solved immediately.”Qadri said, “I wish to continue doing this for as long as I can. I think there is a need for more volunteers who are trustworthy and can help the patients without ill-treating them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/42yearold-mumbaiite-helps-patients-find-way-around-sir-jj-hospital-101612118785657.html
01-02-2021||Mumbai||Arriving after 314 days: Local trains in Mumbai for all commuters||After a gap of 314 days, all Mumbaiites will finally be able to travel by local trains, the city’s lifeline, although in restricted time slots, from Monday. Commuters from across the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) can use train services from the day’s first local train service till 7am. In the afternoon, between 12pm and 4pm, and later from 9pm till the last local train service. It also means they will not be able to travel between 7am and 12noon and between 4pm and 9pm, considered peak travel hours. Those found travelling without wearing a face mask will be fined ₹200, Government Railway Police (GRP) officials said. “GRP commissioner Ravindra Sengaokar has told officials to penalise the commuters ₹200 each, even if the commuter is carrying a mask but not wearing it, in order to ensure safety of all commuters,” said a senior GRP official, wishing not to be named. In order to control crowds and provide easy access to passengers, the Central and the Western Railway will deploy Railway Protection Force (RPF) personnel at the entrance and exit of the railway stations along with the railway platforms. All entry and exit points, railway booking offices, Automated Ticket Vending Machines (ATVM), escalators and lifts on the suburban railway stations will be opened for passengers as a measure to avoid crowding. Closed Circuit Televisions (CCTV) on platforms of suburban railway stations will be used to monitor passenger movements, officials said. “We will carry out random checking of tickets to ensure that people are travelling as per the time scheduled for them. More staff will be deployed in sensitive areas. Local trains are being sanitised regularly,” said Shivaji Sutar, chief public relations officer, Central Railway. Earlier, the suburban railway stations had restricted entry and exit points, along with a limited number of escalators and lifts. The railways will deploy its commercial staff to check passengers, who are not wearing facial masks. “We will be opening up facilities for all passengers. Booking offices, entry and exit points and ATVM machines will be opened. We are operating local trains at 95% of its capacity,” said Sutar. The suburban train services for the general public were suspended on March 23, 2020. Later, the services resumed for employees working in essential care, cancer patients and specially-abled commuters. Women and lawyers were also allowed to travel on local trains for a stipulated time. The Maharashtra government on Friday announced the decision of resumption of local train services from February 1. Currently, the Central Railway operates 1,685 local train services, while the Western Railway operates 1,300 local train services. Before the lockdown, the Central Railway was operating 1,774 train services and the Western Railway 1,367. Local train services are likely to be introduced at 100% capacity. The railway authorities will be studying the increase in the number of passengers. Passenger associations said the restricted time period could lead to an increase in crowding. “It is a good move that train services will resume for passengers. However, the time period should be changed and extended. Staggered office timings should be implemented. Essential workers should not be allowed during the time when general public are allowed,” said Subhash Gupta, president, Rail Yatri Parishad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/arriving-after-314-days-local-trains-in-mumbai-for-all-commuters-101612118726083.html
01-02-2021||Mumbai||Personal Finance: Wedding planning 101||What’s the one thing that two people who are about to get hitched should talk about but never do? Financial planning. Here’s how to have that conversation.Loans and assetsIt’s not enough to know each other’s incomes before getting hitched. You must also be aware of each others’ loans and liabilities, whether personal, home or education and those that are in process of being repaid. Credit card debt and any consequent penalty would also take a toll on your earnings; considering banks these share details of borrowers rather actively, it makes sense to discuss current loans and their repayment status.Short-term and long-term goalsA foreign trip for honeymoon involves substantial expenditure, so you’ll need some short-term financial planning. It would also help to plan such a huge spending together. Financial goals depend on one’s risk aptitude, and that differs from person to person. Couples must sit together and discuss possible investment options, contributions that each would make to their shared goals and the kind of instruments they would want to invest in.Raj Khosla, founder and managing director, MyMoneyMantra, financial services marketplace said, “Both partners should be transparent about their present incomes and their outlook towards savings, expenses and also risk appetite. The portfolio should comprise a mix of fixed income instruments, equity and debt funds, preferably mutual fund SIPs involving blue chips, multi-cap and hybrid schemes for different life stages.” “Since life is an evolving panorama with unplanned outcomes, an annual review and rebalance of portfolio is essential. When nearing your goals, remember to cut down on risky propositions,” he added.Regular expensesCouples often accuse each other of spendthrift behaviour. One way to tackle this is to budget your combined take-home money in such a way that there is enough left to pay off common expenses including grocery bills, utility payments, rent, insurance premiums and loan repayments in the beginning and added disbursal on child support later. Depending on the disposable income, couples can choose to retain their individual savings accounts or opt for a joint savings account in a bank. Adhil Shetty, CEO, BankBazaar.com, an online market place for financial products, said, “Marriage involves not just building a life between you and your spouse, but also about shouldering responsibilities for both your families. Unless you are honest and open about financial matters, you will find it difficult to meet your individual and couple goals... Discuss openly where you stand in terms of assets, liabilities, income, loans, etc. and where you want to go from there. Together, you could chip away at any liabilities at hand, fulfil your aspirations, and handle your responsibilities with ease.”Insurance is a mustThe importance of insurance is known to many, though very few secure themselves through it. Loans incur liabilities. The sudden death of one partner can leave the other with a host of responsibilities and liabilities. A good way to tackle this is for couples to buy life insurance policies equivalent to the loans that they have borrowed, so as to ensure timely and complete loan repayment with the insurance amount.Pankaj Verma, Head-Underwriting, SBI General Insurance, a joint venture general insurance company, said, “A comprehensive health insurance plan is now more essential than ever before. It covers the risk of saving you and your family from sudden financial burdens due to any unforeseen medical emergency by providing maximum coverage flexibility and convenience in the long term. Such plans provide extensive coverage, including hospitalisation, OPD consultations, daycare treatment, and so on. Apart from these core benefits, health Insurance comes with a key benefit of helping save tax under section 80D of the Income Tax law.”Retirement planningIt seems awkward to discuss retirement even before the wedding. But, as we’ve said often enough, planning isn’t fixed in stone — start and revisit, but start you must. “A prudent investment strategy includes a systematic and diversified investment in long-term saving instruments, which also provides tax benefits,” said Akhil Chandna, associate partner, Grant Thornton Bharat, an integrated Assurance, Tax and Advisory firm. “Some of the good long-term investment options include investment in infrastructure bonds, National Pension Scheme, equity-linked tax saving instruments and tax-saving FDs. Buying Unit Linked Insurance Plan is another good long-term investment option wherein flexibility has been provided to switch between equity and debt,” he added.Just remember to plan your retirement ages in alignment with the maturation of these saving instruments.Personal Finance is a weekly feature that aims to provide our readers pertinent and helpful financial information.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/personal-finance-wedding-planning-101-101612118545585.html
01-02-2021||Mumbai||BDS admissions: 30 seats vacant after 8th round in Maharashtra institutes||After eighth round of admission, around 30 seats in state government dental institutes remain vacant. According to the state common entrance test (CET) cell, this is the first time when eight rounds of common admissions for seats in four government-run dental colleges were conducted.“This year due to the delay in admissions, the Dental Council of India announced that BDS admissions will continue till January 31, therefore we added more mop-up rounds. Never before have we conducted these many rounds of admission,” said an official from the CET cell. He added that a final list of vacant seats across state institutes will be released soon for the benefit of students.After completing two common admission rounds, the state CET cell has conducted six stray vacancy rounds to fill up the vacant seats in dental colleges.While admissions to MBBS courses ended on January 15, the dental council realised that the vast number of vacant seats in central institutes across the country needs to be filled, therefore the council extended the admission deadline by two weeks for BDS alone. According to information shared by the Maharashtra CET cell, 35% seats were left vacant across government and private dental colleges this year after five rounds of admissions.Experts have once again reiterated on the need for spot admission, instead of common admission round to fill remaining vacant seats. “Stray vacancy rounds are being conducted based on application forms submitted at the beginning of the admissions season. A large number of these students have already confirmed admissions elsewhere and have not cancelled their admission forms. The state should now allow spot admissions and to approach institutes directly for a seat,” said Muzaffar Khan, a Thane-based medical education counsellor.In the first week of January, the Directorate General of Health Sciences (DGHS) had revealed 163% increase in seat vacancy in the management and NRI quotas of deemed dental institutes in Maharashtra, compared to last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bds-admissions-30-seats-vacant-after-8th-round-in-maharashtra-institutes-101612118185451.html
01-02-2021||Mumbai||Submit status of anti-human trafficking units: Bombay HC to Maharashtra government||The Bombay high court (HC) has asked the state and Central government to provide details of the anti-human trafficking units (AHTUs) set up in Maharashtra and what measures have been taken to ensure that the law is being implemented in letter and spirit. The state and Centre have been asked to respond by February 17.On January 27, a division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni, while hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by Rescue Foundation, an NGO working to rehabilitate victims of human trafficking, was informed by advocate Chetan Mali that the PIL was seeking implementation of the amended Anti-Human Trafficking Law, and though there was a scheme for setting up AHTUs in every district, the state government had set up the units at only 12 of the 36 districts, which were insufficient. Mali submitted that the NGO sought directions to the authorities to form AHTUs in every district and further assign the investigation of all cases of human trafficking for sexual exploitation to be conducted by the anti-human trafficking unit only.In an earlier hearing, the state government had submitted that it was keen to coordinate with other states to strengthen inter-state cooperation on rescue, rehabilitation, safe return, transfer, reintegration of victims of trafficking and prosecution of offenders. The state had further submitted that apart from the existing 12 AHTUs in Mumbai, Thane Rural, Thane City, Pune, Sangli, Nagpur, Ahmednagar, Navi Mumbai, Solapur City, Beed, Kolhapur and Yavatmal, it was in the process of setting up another 24 AHTUs to cover the remainder of Maharashtra. When asked as to the status of the state government’s proposal to the Centre, advocate DP Singh sought time to obtain instructions, which the court accepted. While asking the state to file an affidavit on the status of the 24 AHTUs being set up, the bench also directed the Centre to apprise it of the status of the state government’s proposal and posted further hearing of the PIL for February 17.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/submit-status-of-anti-human-trafficking-units-bombay-hc-to-maharashtra-government-101612118125375.html
01-02-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra govt may reopen colleges soon; Samant meets Koshyari after criticism||The state government is likely to restart offline lectures in colleges and universities soon, said Uday Samant, higher and technical education minister on Sunday, after meeting the Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari.Samant has also called a meeting of vice-chancellors of the universities on Monday to discuss the issue in detail.On Friday, Koshyari, who is also the chancellor of all the universities in the state, had called a meeting of all the vice-chancellors to review annual audit, filling up vacant posts and preparations of the universities for starting physical classes. The vice-chancellors, in the meeting, demanded restarting of physical classes of colleges and universities without any delay. The Governor also voiced the same opinion and said that allowing physical classes for schools and not allowing offline classes college and universities is contradictory.“I came to know through newspapers about reopening of Class 5 to 8 in schools across the state, hence not allowing physical classes at colleges and universities looks contradictory. Universities have already started their academic year and their online lectures are also going on. Since the Covid-19 pandemic has come under control, the universities should consider resuming physical classes at colleges. They can conduct classes in shifts,” the Governor had said in the meeting on Friday.He also said the universities should take initiative about resuming classes given the guidelines issued by the University Grants Commission (UGC) for restarting colleges.The government has allowed physical classes for students between Class 5 and Class 12 in phases, except in Mumbai.Samant, following a meeting with the Governor, said, “I have convened a meeting with all vice-chancellors on Monday. It is in the backdrop of the demand they made [to restart colleges] with the Governor. The chief minister will be given the report of the meeting tomorrow [Monday] itself. One thing is certain that it is now time to reopen colleges and we are taking the steps in this regard.”Once the decision to reopen colleges is formally announced, the department will issue a standard operating procedure (SOP) for students and the teaching, non-teaching staff at the institutions, state officials said. The official said that local district or municipal authorities can decide whether to reopen offline lectures in colleges in their jurisdiction, based on the Covid-19 situation in respective cities and districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-govt-may-reopen-colleges-soon-samant-meets-koshyari-after-criticism-101612117945460.html
01-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai’s private hospitals to be inspected ahead of starting Covid-19 vaccination drives||As the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) gears up for the second phase of the mass immunisation programme, around 100 private hospitals have already submitted their details for permission to inoculate beneficiaries on their premises. The civic body will soon start to inspect the shortlisted hospitals. Last week, the Association of Hospitals (AOH), a trust of private hospitals, approached the civic body seeking permission to allow them to vaccinate beneficiaries. Following this, the BMC sent them a form—‘Private Hospital Covid-19 vaccination preparedness checklist’ – asking them to upload data about their infrastructure. Most major private hospitals namely Bombay Hospital, Hinduja, Hiranandani, Lilavati, among others, have submitted their details. “We have got around 100 names on the list, but many haven’t submitted all details. So, currently, we are auditing the list and scratching off the names of the hospitals who haven’t answered all queries,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC. Following this, the BMC will inspect the shortlisted hospitals for infrastructure. “Until the hospitals fulfil the criteria enlisted by the Central government, they will not be allowed to vaccinate people in the second phase,” said Kakani. The form has 15 questionnaires, including questions such as “Are there three designated rooms for waiting, vaccination and observation?’; ‘Well ventilated injection room available?’; ‘AEFI management faculty (ICU) available?’;’Availability of injection waste disposal bag/container at the session site’; ‘Good network availability for use of CoWIN app’; ‘Covid IEC display boards available at waiting rooms’, among others. “We are ready to facilitate the Covid-19 vaccination process at our hospital, for which we have already submitted the requisite form. We will train our staff as per the guidelines laid down by the government,” said Dr Manish Gupta, medical director at LH Hiranandani Hospital, Powai. After the selection process, the BMC will issue guidelines for private hospitals for the immunisation programme. “Any private hospital with the required infrastructure can apply online,” said Dr Gautam Bhansali, consultant physician at Bombay Hospital and member of AOH. Following the instructions of the Central government, the BMC has decided to start vaccinating frontline workers from the first week of February, along with the healthcare workers (HCWs). On Monday, they will conduct its dry run and on Tuesday, the Co-WIN app will be activated to send messages to the registered FLWs. To facilitate the plan, the BMC will start vaccination centres at peripheral hospitals and other jumbo centres to attain the daily target of 10,000 vaccinations. “The BMC needs huge infrastructure to vaccinate its population of 20,000,000. It is essential to include private hospitals. We are hopeful that we will get an approval soon,” said Dr Bhansali. Submit details about deep freezers for vaccine: BMC to hospitalsAs a preparatory measure, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has asked private hospitals to submit details in the preparedness form if they have deep freezers in their cold storage facility which can be used to store Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine in future.In the form, under point number 4 titled adequate cold chain availability, BMC has sought information about two types of refrigerators — deep freezers with capacity to store at -20 to -70 degrees and ice-lined refrigerators.The mention of deep freezer in the form has raised eyebrows among doctors. When asked about it, additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said, “At present, both Covaxin and Covishield require ice-lined refrigerators (2-8 degrees). But, we need to be ready if, in future, we are asked to provide Pfizer vaccine which requires deep freezers. So, to keep the list handy, we have asked doctors to mention it if they have such freezers.”Pfizer’s vaccine has been developed in collaboration with Germany’s BioNTech SE. According to its official website, it is more than 90% effective in preventing Covid-19 infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbais-private-hospitals-to-be-inspected-ahead-of-starting-covid-19-vaccination-drives-101612117825517.html
01-02-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand police arrest man for allegedly raping 7-year-old cousin||Uttarakhand police have arrested a 20-year-old man for allegedly raping his minor cousin in Nanakmatta area of US Nagar district, said police.Kamlesh Bhatt, in-charge, Nanakmatta police station said, “A man from a village under our police station had lodged a complaint against a relative accusing him of raping his minor daughter on Saturday. We arrested the accused on Sunday.”Bhatt said the accused took his 7-year-old cousin to his house, luring her with something, and allegedly raped her. She was crying and revealed the whole case when asked by the parents, he said.According to the FIR, the victim complained that the man took her to his house and did a wrongful act with her.Also read: GST revenue collection for January almost touched ₹1.20 lakh croreBhatt said after a sub-inspector investigated the matter, the accused was arrested from his house on Sunday. Later, he was produced in the local court from where he was sent to jail, he said.An FIR under sections 376 (rape), 504 (intentional insult), 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code, and the Protection of children from sexual offences Act (POCSO) has been lodged.The investigation has been handed over to sub-inspector Neha Dhyani, Bhatt added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-police-arrest-man-for-allegedly-raping-7-year-old-cousin-101612117605541.html
01-02-2021||Delhi||Six arrested for illegally pocketing GST refunds||The Delhi Police have arrested six people for faking business transactions of over ₹900 crore to illicitly gain GST refunds. Senior officers said 340 suspicious fake companies are under the scanner for their involvement in the matter.The police’s cyber cell identified the mastermind of the alleged scam as 33-year-old Gaurav Rawat, a resident of West Vinod Nagar, who has got 12 fake firms registered on one SIM card obtained using fake ID proofs. His associates have been identified as Shailesh Kumar (29), Sandeep Singh Negi (30), Vivek Kumar (42), Manoj Kumar (41), and Harish Chand Girish (45).Deputy commissioner of police (cyber cell) Anyesh Roy said all the suspects have worked as data entry operators in VAT and GST departments on contractual bases, and are conversant with the vulnerabilities of the taxation systemAt least 14 mobile phones, 14 ATM cards, 22 cheque books of fake companies and other documents have been recovered from them, the DCP said.Also read: GST collections surge to record ₹1.2 L-cr in January“The forgery came to light when a complainant alleged that some unknown persons have got issued three GSTin on his PAN and Aadhar cards. GSTins were issued in the name of three separate firms -- Manish Trading Company, Galaxy International and ABM Enterprises. As per the complainant, all the three bogus companies, built using his PAN and Aadhar details, had business transactions up to Rs. 119 crore, and resultant GST liability with no real payee,” Roy said.The DCP said, his team then collected technical details including digital footprints of the alleged three GSTins issued on the PAN of the complainant. It was found that the fraudsters were using multiple mobile numbers and email IDs to register bogus firms with GST department.“The data of registration of firms on GST portal linked to the mobile phones and email IDs used for registration of the three fake companies in the name of the complainant was also obtained from GST department. Analysis of the data obtained from GST department led the team to identify 81 firms who are involved in business transactions with the three fake firms registered in the name of the complainant. Further analysis of the data has brought out that 227 such firms have been created using the same email ID and mobile number,” Roy said.He said based on the technical analysis and field verification, the police team arrested Shailesh Kumar. Further, on his disclosure, the other five suspects were also arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/six-arrested-for-illegally-pocketing-gst-refunds-101612117525798.html
01-02-2021||Delhi||Delhi had seven cold wave days in January this year, maximum since 2008||Delhi recorded seven ‘cold wave’ days in January this year, the maximum for the month since 2008, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) recordings showed on Sunday.Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said that the number of cold wave days in January this year was the highest since 2008 — when 12 cold wave days were recorded.“This time in January we had seven cold wave days and in 2008, we had recorded 12 cold wave days in January. Only one cold wave day each was recorded in 2019 and 2020,” Srivastava said.The city had recorded six cold wave days in the January of 2013.The IMD declares a cold wave if the minimum temperature is recorded below 10 degrees Celsius and the deviation from normal is four degrees or above.Srivastava said the increase in the number of cold wave days this month was caused because only one western disturbance affected the plains of northwest India this year, which led to more cloudless nights and low temperatures. The northwesterly winds from the snow-clad regions in the Himalayas blowing into Delhi also kept the temperatures low, he said.Also read: Srinagar records lowest temperature in last 30 yrs“Clouds trap some of the outgoing infrared radiation, warming the ground. The minimum temperature falls in the absence of a cloud cover,” Srivastava explained.A cold wave swept the national capital on Sunday morning as well, with the minimum temperature dipping to 3.1 degrees Celsius. This is the fourth cold wave day in Delhi in a week. As the day progressed, however, the temperatures rose, with the maximum temperature of the city to reach and settling at 25 degrees Celsius, three degrees above normal.The IMD has also forecasted that a fresh western disturbance is expected to pass over Delhi-NCR, which will result in thunderstorm and light rain over the region on February 4 and February 5.Meanwhile, as the day time temperature improved, pollution levels also subsided on Sunday, with the air quality index (AQI) reaching the ‘poor’ category.The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) recordings showed that the overall AQI on Sunday was 289, in the ‘poor’ zone. On Saturday, the average AQI was 309, considered to be in the ‘very poor’ zone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-had-seven-cold-wave-days-in-january-this-year-maximum-since-2008-101612117524725.html
01-02-2021||Delhi||Delhi Congress resolution demands Rahul Gandhi as party chief||The Delhi Congress on Sunday passed a resolution, seeking the appointment of senior leader Rahul Gandhi as party president with immediate effect.The resolution was passed during a meeting of senior leaders convened by Delhi Congress chief Anil Chaudhury on Sunday.“Congress needs a dynamic and powerful leader like Rahul Gandhi at the helm to lead the party forcefully and to counter the communal, authoritarian and undemocratic forces, which are trying to take the country on the path of destruction,” said Chaudhury.Also read: Police cut off Singhu border from CapitalThe party also passed resolutions demanding the resignations of union home minister Amit Shah and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal for “mishandling” the famers’ tractor rally on January 26.Chaudhury said that the farm laws passed by the BJP government were meant to “crush and ruin” the farmers of this country.“These laws will ruin the farmers, who feed this country with their hard work,” Chaudhury said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-congress-resolution-demands-rahul-gandhi-as-party-chief-101612117525249.html
01-02-2021||Delhi||BJP trying to use Kejriwal’s popularity to garner support for farm laws: Sisodia||Delhi’s deputy chief minister and senior Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Manish Sisodia on Sunday threatened to take legal action against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for sharing a doctored video of chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on a social media platform to claim that the CM praised the three farm laws.BJP national spokesperson Sambit Patra tweeted an edited 18-second clip of Kejriwal on Saturday, which the AAP described as a desperate attempt to ride the credibility of Kejriwal to garner support on the farm laws.“Yesterday (Saturday), the BJP had tweeted a video claiming that Kejriwal in an interview has supported the three farm laws. This doctored video was created by selectively editing a long interview of the Delhi CM and placing fake bytes in some places,” Sisodia said at a press conference. In the original video, Kejriwal criticised the three farm laws.The tweet was labelled as manipulated media by Twitter, described by the micro-blogging site as content which “has been substantially edited in a manner that fundamentally alters its composition, sequence, timing, or framing”.Sambit Patra did not respond to calls and messages for a comment on the matter.Thousands of farmers have been protesting for over two months on Delhi’s borders against the three new farm laws passed by the Parliament in September that see to open up agricultural trade. The Aam Aadmi Party has pledged support to the farmers and appealed to the Centre to repeal the laws.Addressing the press conference at AAP’s office in ITO, Sisodia alleged that the violence on Republic Day (January 26) during a tractor parade by the farmers was a “well-planned conspiracy hatched by the BJP”. He added that both the BJP and Prime Minister Narendra Modi have lost credibility because of the Central government’s refusal to repeal the three laws, and their inability to convince people about the benefits of these legislations.Earlier on Sunday, Kejriwal reiterated his support to protesting farmers and said he will offer all possible help to them.Also read: Police cut off Singhu border from CapitalResponding to a tweet by farmer leader Naresh Tikait, thanking the CM for providing basic facilities at the Gazipur protest site, Kejriwal tweeted, “Naresh ji. You people are struggling so much. I will help in every way through my party and my government.”Sisodia said the BJP, having lost the trust of the people, was resorting to malign the image of Kejriwal “who is the only leader with credibility among masses”. The original video of the interview was also played during the press conference.“Today, the BJP’s credibility is at an all-time low. The lack of trust for the BJP and the Central government over the farm laws is so much that the saffron party is now doctoring Kejriwal’s statements to protect their image and convince people about the farm laws. PM Modi has enumerated the benefits of the farm laws on several occasions, but farmers have understood that they are only being cheated,” the senior AAP leader said.Sisodia also said when the BJP couldn’t explain the farm laws to the farmers, it started branding them as “traitors” and “Khalistanis”.“Then BJP conducted a sponsored protest at the Red Fort and disrespected the national flag. Now, Indian public has understood the BJP’s ill intentions and they do not believe in conspiracies. The BJP sent their goons to the Ghazipur border who attacked the farmers and their leader Rakesh Tikait. BJP sent their goons to Singhu border where they disrespected the Sikh community by throwing their turbans and attacking protesting farmers. They tried to portray it as an attack by the locals, but thankfully the Indian public saw through this and understood the BJP’s tactics,” he said.The Delhi unit of the BJP said Sisodia was levelling “baseless allegations” that the BJP had planned the January 26 violence.“Sisodia, like his party colleagues, has levelled allegations against the BJP and raised questions on the credibility of the Central government without any basis. In fact, farmer leaders including Rakesh Tikait have today expressed willingness to talk to PM Modi,” said Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bjptrying-to-use-kejriwal-s-popularity-to-garner-support-for-farm-laws-sisodia-101612117465820.html
01-02-2021||Delhi||Banquet owners want cap on number of guests to be lifted||Banquet and tent house associations in the city have appealed to the Delhi government to increase the number of people allowed at gatherings from 50 to at least 200 or more, citing the fact that the Covid situation in the national capital has been brought under control for now.The banquet owners have said that their businesses have been severely affected due to the restrictions, which were imposed in November last year as the number of Covid-19 cases surged in the city.In November last year, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) had put a cap on the number of guests at weddings and other events at 50. This was done days after the Delhi government had allowed 200 people in social events.As per the standard operating procedures (SOPs) issued by the Centre on Sunday, cinema halls have been allowed to function with 100% seating capacity, if they maintain adequate physical distance in auditoriums and common areas.Members of various banquet associations recently met urban development and health minister Satyendar Jain iand appealed to him to look into their plight. Ramesh Dang, president of Community Welfare Banquet Association Delhi, said, “We have requested the state government to remove the cap on the number of guests now that the Centre has further eased its guidelines. Cinema halls have been allowed to operate on 100% capacity. We should also be allowed to do so too. The Covid situation in the city is now under control.”Banquet and tent house owners say that they are bleeding money with Delhiites opting for outstation venues due to the restrictions. Puneesh Khanna, owner of Lavanya banquet on GT Karnal Road, said, “We are not getting many bookings as 50 guests is too less a number. We have lost around 65% of the business. It has become difficult to sustain.”Banquet owners said that the industry has suffered huge losses due to the cap on number of guests.Pankaj Shokeen, president of Delhi Tent house owners’ association, said, “The government must step in and help businesses now. The present restrictions has made it difficult for us to sustain our businesses. We have written to the chief minister and deputy chief minister in this regard.”The Delhi government spokesperson could not be contacted for a comment on the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/banquet-owners-want-cap-on-number-of-guests-to-be-lifted-101612117465260.html
01-02-2021||Delhi||ASI files FIR in Red Fort violence, crime branch to probe the case||At 12.10pm on Tuesday, when Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) officials and CISF personnel were receiving the tableaux coming from the Republic Day Parade, the first group of about 200 protesters and 25 tractors tried to push their way into the Red Fort through the Lahori Gate, according to the first information report (FIR) filed by the ASI on Saturday in connection with the vandalism at the monument on January 26.On Tuesday, several groups among thousands of farmers who were camping at Delhi’s border demanding withdrawal of three new farm laws, arrived at the Red Fort without warning and in violation of the terms of their tractor rally, and clashed with police. They also allegedly inflicted extensive damage at the monument. Union tourism and culture minister Prahlad Singh Patel visited the fort on Wednesday along with the ASI director general and directed registration of an FIR.HT has seen the FIR filed by the Superintending Archaeologist of India. The FIR has been transferred to the crime branch for investigation. This was the second case filed in the incident at Red Fort, the first one was filed by the police.The FIR details the siege by the protesters, damage to the property and the response by the security forces at the Unesco World Heritage Site.According to the FIR, between 12.10pm and 1.10pm, about 300 protesters and 25 tractors tried to enter the fort thrice through the Lahori Gate but teams of Delhi police and CISF neutralised them by locking the gate.Around 1 pm, large groups of protesters on motorcycles and tractors started coming to Red Fort from the Subhash Marg. “…They then joined the mob gathered there and forced open the gate. The security personnel were completely outnumbered,” the FIR read, adding that the mob then damaged the ticket counter, door metal frame detector, and the baggage scanners.Also read: Similarities between probes into the Delhi riots, R-Day violenceThe ASI said that the mob then turned towards Lahori gate entrance, which had been “firmly secured with an iron chain and lock”.“The mob climbed over this iron door, jumped inside, and broke the chain lock with the help of iron tools they were carrying…the security personnel could not resist the mob. While doing so they broke the inner gate…Once inside a section of the mob broke the electrical fittings and the stone casing around them. A bus placed as a barricade by the CISF was also damaged,” reads the FIR.The ASI official said that three tractors managed to reach inside the fort. “…A section of the mob then charged towards the ramparts and forcefully hoisted a flag on the pole where the Prime Minister hoists the flag on Independence Day,” the FIR read.A police officer, who wished not to be named, said they have identified a man named Jugraj Singh from Tarn Taran in Punjab as the one who hoisted a farmers’ union flag and a religious flag at the fort’s ramparts. Investigators are identifying protesters from 1500 video clips.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/asi-files-fir-in-red-fort-violence-crime-branch-to-probe-the-case-101612117347073.html
01-02-2021||Delhi||The many similarities between probes into the Delhi riots, R-Day violence||As part of its case that the violence that erupted during the tractor rally by protesting farmers on Republic Day was a “pre-planned conspiracy” and not a spontaneous outburst, Delhi Police’s special cell has started probing the role played by many farmers’ leaders in the agitation against three laws passed in September to open up agriculture..Some facets such as the line of investigation, motive, the officers leading it, and the circumstances leading to the violence are strikingly similar to the probe the police launched after the Delhi riots in February 2020.At least 53 persons died, 627 were injured in the violence that started as clashes between protestors against and for the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, or CAA, and took a communal turn.With the Delhi riots investigation almost complete -- the police have filed charge sheets in all the cases and the cases are in court -- the officers and the units probing the 38 cases connected to Tuesday’s violence are also the same.Deputy commissioners of police from the crime branch and special cell – Joy Tirkey and Pramod Kuswah – who had led the riots probe are investigating Tuesday’s violence too.Also read: Delhi Police tracking owners of tractors that took wrong route In the Delhi riots, 698 cases of rioting and violence were probed by local police, the crime branch probed 57 cases (all 53 murders and a few cases of heinous rioting) and the special cell investigated one case of an alleged conspiracy behind the violence.In the Delhi Republic Day violence, of the 38 cases, 28 are of rioting and vandalism, which are being probed by the local police; ten cases in which the most violence took place, such as the incidents in Red Fort and the Income Tax Office area, are with the crime branch, and the one case of the alleged conspiracy is with the special cell.In both the special cell cases of the riots and Tuesday’s violence, the cases have been registered under stringent sections of the sedition law and the Unlawful Activities (Prevention_ Act).There is another similarity. In the Delhi riots case, the accused were some prominent Anti-CAA protesters who were on the streets in the weeks leading to the riots. In the riots charge sheets, police linked the role of the accused right from December 2019, when the citizenship law was passed.In Tuesday’s violence, the police are probing the role of prominent faces of the farmers’ protest – leaders such as Darshan Lal, Rakesh Tikait and Punjabi actor Deep Sidhu -- from September, when the three farm laws were passed by Parliament.The motive behind the pre-planned violence, according to a Delhi police statement on Thursday, was also similar to what police had said was the one for the Delhi riots.In the statement, the police said its preliminary assessment suggested that there was a “pre-conceived and well-coordinated plan” to engage in violence and “create an international embarrassment for the government on the occasion of Republic Day.”Similarly, police in their charge sheets filed in the riots cases said that the violence in northeast Delhi in February 2020 had been planned to coincide with then US President Donald Trump’s official visit to India to create an international embarrassment for India and defame the country.Arrested suspects such as former Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) student Umar Khalid and student activist Devangana Kalita, currently in jail, have denied the allegations.On Friday afternoon, Delhi police issued a public notice asking journalists and citizens to come forward and submit statements or videos of the Republic Day violence. It was similar to the notice the police issued in the aftermath of the February 2020 riots.Also read: Thousands converge in western UP farmers' stirPolice had on March 11 issued a similar notice seeking videos of the riots, apart from many other types of evidence such as statements of protected witnesses and WhatsApp chat records.A Delhi police officer, privy to the investigation of the Republic Day violence. said on condition of anonymity: “Like the CAA protests, the mobilization at the anti-CAA protest sites happened over WhatsApp messages. Provocative statements were made at those sites after which the riots happened. In the farmers’ protest too, we have many people who heard the farmer leaders making such statements. In the riots cases, many protected witnesses had heard the accused persons making such provocative speeches. Such witnesses will be an important part of the investigation.”Delhi police commissioner SN Shrivastava had on Wednesday evening said that a night before the violence, police had an inkling that “aggressive and militant people” were taking control of the stage at the protest sites and giving provocative speeches. The top cop did not specify how police had the inkling or who had witnessed or heard the provocative speeches.A second Delhi police officer, not directly connected with the investigation of the violence, said: “Boss (Commissioner) did not specify who had heard or seen those leaders. Maybe it could be the police personnel at the protest sites, insiders from the intelligence wing, or insiders who work for the police and help pass on information. If police manage to get such witnesses, get their statements recorded before a judge, then it is crucial evidence in this case too.”Last week, the farmers’ leaders had caught a man and accused him of being a mole planted by the Haryana police.There is a coincidence too.On Friday afternoon, when a clash between two groups of protesters -- farmers and those protesting against the farmers -- led to stone-throwing and clashes -- many residents of villages around the Singhu border said they were reminded of the evening before the Delhi 2020 riots, when two groups of protesters -- one supporting the Citizenship law and those against it -- had clashed below the Jafrabad metro station. This clash was the start of Delhi riots.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/the-many-similarities-between-probes-into-the-delhi-riots-r-day-violence-101612117345393.html
01-02-2021||Delhi||PWD begins work on Ashram flyover extension, traffic snarls may worsen||Traffic snarls at Ashram Chowk, Delhi’s biggest choke point, are expected to further worsen with the Public Works Department (PWD) beginning construction work on its project to extend the Ashram flyover up to Delhi-Noida-Direct (DND) flyway.Prolonged and haphazard construction, poor site management and extension of barricades for building a 750-metre underpass, connecting Nizamuddin Railway Bridge and the Ashram Chowk, have turned Ashram into a commuter’s nightmare.Work on the flyover will worsen snarls on the Ring Road at Maharani Bagh and Kilokari, both about 150 metres away from the main Ashram intersection even as the PWD has asked the traffic department to chalk out a diversion for hundreds of thousands of vehicles which cross the stretch every day.Both the underpass and the flyover extension projects are aimed at decongesting Ashram Chowk where vehicles are seen waiting for hours in traffic jams even during non-peak hours.According to PWD officials, works such as shifting of utilities, creation of foundation to erect columns near DND, widening of road by removing pavements among others, have begun on the stretch between Maharani Bagh and the DND flyway in south Delhi. The project entails construction of a six-lane flyover from Ashram to DND with ramps for traffic from Sarai Kale Khan.The flyover extension project aims to provide relief to daily commuters from traffic congestion by facilitating signal-free movement till Lajpat Nagar for motorists coming from Noida and till Noida and Sarai Kale Khan for commuters coming from Lajpat Nagar side.Also read: Delhi Police tracking owners of tractors that took wrong routeThe proposal for extension of the flyover was approved by the Delhi Cabinet in November 2019 and its foundation stone was laid by Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal in December 2019 but the work could not start due to coronavirus lockdown.A senior PWD official, who requested not to be named, said work was to be started in 2020 only but the tendering process got delayed because of the nationwide lockdown. The official said even after the contract was allotted in June 2020, work could not start due to various reasons, including lack of workforce and shortage of material.The official said preparatory works such as site planning, ground layout plan installation of signage indicating about the project etc had started after October. “Last month, we have started construction work. We are currently widening the road near Maharani Bagh and Kilokri by breaking footpaths to create additional space for traffic. We will barricade some portion of the main road space for construction of the flyover,” the official said.According to the plan, the existing Ashram flyover will be extended by constructing 1.2-km-long six lane elevated road which will touch down where DND starts. Near DND the elevated road will split into two wings -- one towards the flyway and the other will go in the direction of Sarai Kale Khan.“The construction of the flyover is likely to be completed in one-and-a-half years. Our priority is to carry out the work in such a way that motorists have to undergo minimum inconvenience,” another PWD official said.Commuters are wary of another construction beginning near Ashram Chowk. “Traffic movement is already a mess in this part of the city and now, with the construction of the flyover beginning, it will turn worse further. The authorities should have waited a few more months more and started construction after completion of the Ashram underpass,” Kartik Kumar, a commuter and a resident of Maharani Bagh, said.Also read: PM Modi says saddened by insult to Tricolour on R-DayS Velmurugan, chief scientist, traffic engineering and safety division, Central Road Research Institute, said the project will decongest the stretch between Lajpat Nagar and DND point.“During peak hours, massive traffic jams are common on Ashram flyover, especially on the carriageway towards Sarai Kale Khan. The extension of the existing flyover will give a signal free ride to commuters towards Noida and Sarai Kale Khan. It will also help in the movement of local traffic of Kilokri and Maharani Bagh below the flyover,” Velmurugan said.The scientist added that the PWD should have made special arrangements such as additional workforce to make up for the time loss and start the construction work early.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pwd-begins-work-on-ashram-flyover-extension-traffic-snarls-may-worsen-101612117344785.html
01-02-2021||Delhi||Farmers leaders take steps to ‘revive’ agitation||Farmer groups leading the protests against the three contentious farm laws have taken several measures to keep the agitation going after the tractor parade on Republic Day ended in violence. These include district and village-level ‘mahapanchayat’, door-to-door visits, announcements in every lane and street, appeals from the loudspeakers at temples, mosques and gurdwaras and WhatsApp groups to disseminate information and curb rumours.The measures, farm leaders said, will help “revive” the protest, which met a rude jolt after the Republic Day incident.Several farmer groups joined the protesters at Ghazipur on Sunday where the Ghaziabad administration served an eviction notice to the protesters on Thursday. People from all age groups were seen arriving in the hundreds in convoys of cars and tractors throughout the day despite police blocking many routes leading to the site.Among them was Ranveer Rathi, a farmer from Muzaffarnagar who had arrived at the protest site after attending a mahapanchayat organised to garner support for Bharatiya Kisan Union (Tikait) leader Rakesh Tikait. “I have come here with a group of hundred farmers and a sea of people is on their way to the Delhi-UP border to avenge the tears of Rakesh Tikait… And, this time it’s a matter of farmers’ pride now. We are making sure that at least one person from each and every family in our village should come here and tell the government that they can’t pressure us to vacate this protest site. It is our home now,” he said.Also read: Punjab CM calls all-party meet tomorrow over farmers’ stirOn Thursday, Rakesh Tikait burst into tears while speaking to the media and accused the Centre of hatching conspiracy against the agitating farmers at the Delhi borders.Like Rathi, many others have arrived to support the movement after attending panchayats being organised in their villages. Vinod Gujjar, a farmer from Saharanpur, said that they are also organising door-to-door campaigns in their villages to mobilise maximum people. “We have divided farmers into small groups and assigned them to work to create awareness among farmers back home. With mics and speakers, they are going street-to-street, making announcements inviting farmers to the border. This is the time to show our unity,” he said.A large section of protesters, who have arrived in the last three days, are young. Robin, 26, who has come from Baghpat said, “I can’t forget the day when my uncle’s body arrived wrapped in a Tricolour from Kashmir a few years back. And they call us “anti-nationals”. The government had conspired the January 26 incident to break our protest but it has fallen into its own trap. Our movement is now stronger like never before.”Those who arrived on Sunday were also seen bringing food, water, ropes, and tents with them. Many new langars also sprung up at the protest site on Sunday. Puran Singh, who belongs to Udhham Singh Nagar in Uttarakhand, said, “We have called five more cooks from our village to prepare langar since we have more people to feed .”With mobile internet connection continuing to remain weak at the protest site on Sunday, many protesters were seen walking miles in search of a network. Braham Chaudhary, a farmer from Meerut, said, “We have created WhatsApp groups to send correct real time information to our people back home. We can’t let them get wrong information from social media and get disheartened. We will have to keep them motivated.”Hukle Chawdhary, who claimed to be over 100 years old, from Loni district remained a centre of attraction at the protest site on Sunday. “I have not worked in the fields throughout my life to see my fellow farmer brother breaking down like that… Ab ladai aar-paar ki hai,” he said.‘100 missing’Samyukta Kisan Morcha leaders on Sunday said over 100 persons were missing after the Republic Day tractor rally. Even as 84 persons were arrested in connection with the violence, farmers alleged that many other protesters have been “illegally detained” by the police and information about them is not being shared with their families or the leaders.Special commissioner of police (crime) Praveer Ranjan said, “These allegations are not true. The details of every person arrested so far in the violence are available.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/farmers-leaders-take-steps-to-revive-agitation-101612117284749.html
01-02-2021||Delhi||Fresh fervour at Tikri, even as protesters keep watch for trouble||From early Sunday morning, dozens of tractors, trucks and buses lined up on the Haryana side of the Tikri border, unloading scores of supporters, mostly women, who came in to join the protesters in the Capital.Hundreds walked several kilometres to reach the protest site, singing folk songs, waving the tricolour and raising slogans to encourage the movement, which gained fresh impetus a few days ago, even as it looked like petering out after the violence in Delhi on Republic Day.However, the renewed show of support, mostly from villages in Haryana and Punjab, was tinged with tension, with farmer leaders on stage imploring participants to avoid crossing over to the Capital’s side of the border, as news began to spread of Delhi Police making arrests in connection with the January 26 clashes, when the protesters’ tractor rally descended into chaos, culminating in several farmers storming the Red Fort.“We request our farmer brothers to stay at the protest site and not cross over to Delhi. Many of our supporters have been arrested by the police blaming them falsely of inciting violence on January 26. We know our demands are valid and we will win this battle,” said Chaudhary Raman Singh Pradhan, a member of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, a farmers’ union.Chandra Devi, 72, who reached the Tikri protest site on Sunday afternoon from Sundarpur in Haryana, said eight of her family members have been protesting against the three farm laws at Delhi’s borders for over a month. On Sunday, three women and eight children from her family also joined in.Also read: Police cut off Singhu border from Capital“Mothers from Haryana and Punjab have been sending their sons to fight for the country [in the armed forces] for years. We do not need to prove our patriotism and dedication for our country to this government or to anyone,” she said.Phoolvanti Devi, 88, from Bahadurgarh, said if the farmers had to cause unrest in Delhi, they would not have waited two months.“From teenagers to senior citizens, people across ages have been camping here for over two months. Why would we cause unrest now? If they agree to our demands and repeal the three farm laws, all of these borders will be empty the very next day. In our village, if children get stubborn and throw tantrums, mothers box their ears and punish them — this government also needs that,” said Phoolvanti.Protesters at the site have also stepped up vigil since Friday, after a group claiming to be “local residents” gathered near the protest site, demanding that the farmers be evicted. They have been taking turns to guard the entry to the main stage area throughout the day.“They said they [Friday’s counter-protesters] are locals, but how is it possible that all these locals from around Tikri, Ghazipur and Singhu suddenly decided to gather with the demand of evicting the protestors on the same day. It is clear this was organised by forces that do not want the farmers to continue their protests,” said Chaudhary Rohtas Singh, a farmer who joined the protests on Saturday from Sirsa in Haryana.Singh said that after watching Bharatiya Kisan Union (BJU) leader Rakesh Tikait break down before the media on Friday, he decided to take a bus to Delhi.“My mother saw the television and cried and said ‘Beta, kisan toh haar gaya’ (Farmers have lost). I told my mother we will not allow that to happen and took the bus the next morning,” Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fresh-fervour-at-tikri-even-as-protesters-keep-watch-for-trouble-101612117104866.html
01-02-2021||Chandigarh||Apni Mandis to return in Chandigarh on Feb 1||Residents’ long wait for easy access to vegetables and fruits will end on Monday with apni mandis returning to the city after a hiatus of 10 months.The local vegetable markets were shut down in March 2020 in view of the Covid-19 pandemic and will now resume after a decision by UT administrator and Punjab governor VP Singh Badnore at the war room meeting on January 25.“Vegetable and fruit sellers will have to maintain a minimum distance of two metres from each other and wear masks. Only farmers registered with the Punjab Mandi Board will be allowed to set stalls at the mandi after presenting their registration card,” said mandi supervisor for Chandigarh, Satish Kumar. There will be no cap on the number of visitors at a mandi, as long as the Covid protocols, including social distancing and wearing masks, are maintained.Officials of the Punjab Mandi Board (PMB) confirmed that the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation (MC) had written to them to start the mandi from Monday. PMB auction recorder Harpreet Singh said the decision had brought huge relief to farmers, who sold their produce directly to the public.MC staff have been preparing the original mandi sites by sanitising them. “For all these months, roadside vendors had been overcharging residents because they had no other choice. Reopening of apni mandis will help keep the price of vegetables and fruits in check. We urge residents to follow the Covid safety protocols so that the mandis can function smoothly,” said Hitesh Puri, chairman of the Chandigarh Resident Associations Welfare Federation (CRAWFED).Weekly timetableMonday: Sector 45Tuesday: Dhanas and Sector 29Wednesday: Sector 40 and Sector 15Thursday: Ram Darbar and Sector 56Friday: Sector 46Saturday: Sector 43 and Sector 49Sunday: Sector 34 and Dadumajra||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/apni-mandis-to-return-in-chandigarh-on-feb-1-101612106965235.html
01-02-2021||World||Iran state TV airs launch of new satellite-carrying rocket||Iranian state TV on Monday aired the launch of the country's newest satellite-carrying rocket, which it said was able to reach a height of 500 kilometers (310 miles).The footage of the solid-liquid-fueled rocket showed the launch taking place during daytime in a desert environment. The report did not say when the launch happened.The rocket, called Zuljanah for the horse of Imam Hussein, the grandson of the Prophet Muhammad, did not launch a satellite into orbit.State TV said the rocket is capable of carrying a 220-kilogram (485-pound) satellite, adding that the three-stage rocket uses solid fuel in the first and second stages and fluid fuel in the third.Iran in the past has used various fluid-fuel satellite carrier rockets to put smaller devices into orbit. Last year, the paramilitary Revolutionary Guard said it used a Qased, or “Messenger,” satellite carrier to put the Noor satellite into space.Iran often coordinates its launches with national holidays. It will celebrate the 42nd anniversary of the Islamic Revolution later in February.Iran says its satellite program, like its nuclear activities, are aimed at scientific research and other civilian applications. The US and other Western countries have long been suspicious of the program because the same technology can be used to develop long-range missiles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/iran-state-tv-airs-launch-of-new-satellite-carrying-rocket-101612199349817.html
01-02-2021||World||Forget no one: US cities use real-time data to end homelessness||As US President Joe Biden vows to tackle the country's housing affordability crisis, one group is trying to convince cities they can end homelessness outright armed with one thing: better data.For homeless service providers across the United States, late January means the "point-in-time" count, in which volunteers spend a single night combing streets, parks and forests for people sleeping rough, or living in cars or tents.The federally mandated count offers a key snapshot of the unhoused population, but the data has long been criticized by some homelessness advocates."It's crazy," said Jake Maguire, co-director of the anti-homelessness program Built for Zero at the national nonprofit Community Solutions. "We're told it's scientific, but it produces a very uncertain number."Local officials send their findings to the federal government and get back aggregated statistics 11 months later, he told the Thomson Reuters Foundation."It's data for someone else - it doesn't give us any insight to improve our system. We don't know who these people are and what they need."Now the pandemic has complicated the annual count, and many local officials are calling it off for this year due to public health concerns.As of Jan. 21, nearly 60% of point-in-time counts had requested exemptions or waivers, according to figures from the US Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD).Instead, the agency is allowing communities more flexibility in how they determine this estimate. And for some, Built for Zero thinks it has an answer: using the constantly updated homelessness data it has been helping cities produce since 2015.Unlike the once-a-year federal tally, Built for Zero cities create a comprehensive list of people experiencing homelessness, including information on their situation and needs, that is updated at least monthly, Maguire and other organizers said.Local groups and agencies involved in homelessness response not only have access to this "by-name" list but regularly come together to address each individual case and any obstacles standing in the way of getting them housed."We cannot expect to drive meaningful reductions in a ... dynamic problem like homelessness without comprehensive, real-time, person-specific data," said Built for Zero co-director Beth Sandor.She called HUD's decision on this year's count a major step and urged the department to make the change permanent and provide funding "so every community can collect real-time, quality data."HUD did not respond to requests for broader comment.'Adding a year of homelessness'Built for Zero's name comes from its aim to bring homelessness down to what supporters call functional zero, "where homelessness is rare overall, and brief when it occurs," according to the project website.Fourteen communities working with the program have reached this point for either homeless veterans or chronic homelessness - when someone has been homeless repeatedly or for at least a year - and more than 80 jurisdictions are currently participating.Maguire recalls a Los Angeles workshop early on in the project, where the group brought together local officials and others to map the process for a homeless person to get housing.The teams figured it took an average of 389 days and 44 steps for one person to get through the process, Maguire noted."So, you're adding a year of homelessness to someone's experience," he said.They realized that constantly updating the data and looking at individual cases can help dramatically cut down this wait, sometimes to 30 days or less.That was a major help for Marvin Minor Jr. of Lynchburg, Virginia, who was homeless from July 2019 to December last year, eventually living in his car until a respiratory illness forced him into hospital for weeks.He was referred to homeless outreach specialists and placed into a process that had been created with Built for Zero, which led to getting Minor, 41, quickly into housing.Within a week, he had been placed in a motel, and shortly thereafter he moved into his own apartment."By having a (home) of my own, now I'm able to wash and bathe, cook, have fresh food and clean clothing. I just became a grandfather a few months ago, and now it's a place where my granddaughter can come," Minor said by phone.Inflow and OutflowLast year, Lynchburg achieved "functional zero" for veteran homelessness - from about 20 homeless vets in 2019 - and the federal government has acknowledged Built for Zero's efforts nationally.Randal Noller, spokesman for the US Department of Veterans Affairs, highlighted in an email the initiative's use of real-time data to analyze the "inflow" of those entering homelessness.That issue has been key for Lynchburg, which is now shifting its focus to ending chronic homelessness."The change is that no one gets forgotten - there's an accounting that has to happen for every single (person)," said Sarah Quarantotto, executive director of Miriam's House, a nonprofit that leads the Lynchburg effort.Rosten Callarman, coalition coordinator for the West Texas Homeless Network, has been working with Built for Zero in Abilene, Texas, one of five communities that the program considers to have ended chronic homelessness.He said the project represents a shift in attitude for homelessness service providers.Usually, he explained, "the talk is not about progress, but about maintaining the system as it is. It's very pessimistic, a sense that homelessness is not something that can be fixed."Dynamic problemSome anti-homelessness advocates worry that Built for Zero's strategy potentially glosses over critical gaps in efforts to eradicate the problem."This idea of functional zero is not actually ending homelessness," said Megan Hustings, deputy director of the Washington, D.C.-based National Coalition for the Homeless.Hustings acknowledged that the program has built a system that can identify people who need housing and quickly get them resources.But, she worried that by saying they have ended homelessness in an area, the community can assume the issue has been addressed.That does little to tackle the root causes of homelessness, she said, primarily the major shortfall of affordable housing nationwide.For Katie Hong, director of special initiatives at the Raikes Foundation, where she has focused on youth homelessness, understanding the inflow and outflow of homelessness can help response as a whole.The sector has long focused on crisis response, with no incentive for other systems – hospitals and prisons, for example – to take responsibility for those moving into homelessness, she said.With Covid and the eventual end of eviction moratoriums, "everyone is now bracing for the inflow," Hong said by phone."I don't think we've gotten smart enough as a community to understand that this is a dynamic problem. If we don't talk about that, it makes it seem like we're not making progress."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/forget-no-one-us-cities-use-real-time-data-to-end-homelessness-101612198026416.html
01-02-2021||World||UN Security Council aims to discuss Myanmar military coup on Tuesday: Diplomats||NEW YORK, Feb 1 (Reuters) - The United Nations Security Council aims to discuss Myanmar on Tuesday, diplomats said, after the country's military seized power on Monday in a coup against the democratically elected government of Nobel laureate Aung San Suu Kyi, who was detained along with other political leaders in early morning raids.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/un-security-council-aims-to-discuss-myanmar-military-coup-on-tuesday-diplomats-101612194483938.html
01-02-2021||World||Aung San Suu Kyi no longer West's priority after Myanmar military coup||Aung San Suu Kyi's fall from grace as a rights icon has dampened Western enthusiasm for her as Myanmar's leader, but governments will still press for her release after Monday's coup in order to return to democratic rule, diplomats and lawmakers said.Long celebrated as a pro-democracy activist, Suu Kyi won the Nobel Peace Prize while under house arrest in 1991, was later feted at the White House and became the subject of a 2011 film.But as the country's elected leader since 2015, she has faced an international outcry at her defence of allegations of genocide against at Myanmar's Rohingya population.Western leaders condemned Monday's seizure of power by the military and called for the release of those detained. But many European governments chose not to mention her by name in their statements. Dutch Foreign Minister Stef Blok on Twitter demanded "the immediate release of all democratically elected politicians and civil society representatives".Her party's landslide win in a Nov. 8 election, viewed as a referendum on Suu Kyi's fledgeling democratic rule, means she is critical to any return to democracy, said Heidi Hautala, a vice president of the European Parliament and former Finnish government minister who met Suu Kyi in 2013 in Myanmar."But we won't forget what she said about the Rohingya people in the International Court of Justice. She has spoiled her international reputation as a human rights defender with her very open support of the military in the genocide issue," Hautala told Reuters.Read | Myanmar's military coup: What led to Aung San Suu Kyi’s detention?In December 2019, Suu Kyi led a legal defence team to the World Court in The Hague, where the country faces allegations of genocide against its Muslim Rohingya population.The Nobel committee faced calls for her to be stripped of her prize, and number of other cities and institutions, including the European Union, withdrew or suspended honours.Restored as a "martyr"?Although Suu Kyi does not personally face charges, she backed the military and denied genocide.An August 2018 United Nations report said the Myanmar military had carried out killings and mass rape with "genocidal intent" in the 2017 operation.More than 730,000 Rohingya fled Myanmar to Bangladesh during the crackdown, during which UN investigators said 10,000 people may have been killed.But Suu Kyi defended the violence in western Rakhine State as a counter-terrorism operations and asked the court "to remove the case from its list".Laetitia van den Assum, a retired Dutch diplomat in Southeast Asia who regularly met Suu Kyi during the nearly 15 years between 1989 and 2010 when she was under house arrest, said her status as an icon of democracy was "almost irreparably tarnished"."But nobody wants there to be a military regime in Myanmar," she said.A senior EU diplomat based in Jakarta told Reuters her image might benefit from the coup, "restoring her position as a martyr" but that the West was now realising that despite her popularity at home, she had no sway over the military.With only the United States and Britain having direct sanctions on Myanmar's powerful military chief Senior General Min Aung Hlaing, the EU could show its support for Suu Kyi by imposing punitive measures this month, although they may first choose to cut development aid, the senior EU diplomat said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/aung-san-suu-kyi-no-longer-west-s-priority-after-myanmar-military-coup-101612194467529.html
01-02-2021||World||Scotland Yard remembers first-ever Sikh female police officer||Scotland Yard on Monday celebrated the 50th anniversary of Karpal Kaur Sandhu joining its ranks as the first South Asian and Sikh female police officer, paving the way for others to follow in her footsteps.Police Constable (PC) Sandhu served the Metropolitan Police in London between 1971 and 1973 and has been dubbed as a “true pioneer” for police forces across the UK.“PC Karpal Kaur Sandhu was a true pioneer and ahead of her time. I have no doubt that her decision to join the Met Police in 1971 was a brave one and she would have faced considerable challenges along the way,” said Assistant Commissioner Helen Ball.“As Britain's and the Met’s first Asian female officer, Karpal paved the way for so many others who have gone into policing since 1971. Fifty years to the day after PC Sandhu joined the Met, I am pleased that we are able to remember her life, her career and the legacy she has left policing," she said.The National Sikh Police Association UK joined forces with the Met Police Sikh Association for a special virtual event in memory of PC Sandhu on Monday.“Today, together with representatives from the Met’s Sikh Association, Met police officers and staff and the wider Sikh community, we remember Karpal’s special contribution to policing, as the UK’s first female Asian and Sikh police officer,” said Ravjeet Gupta, Chair of the Metropolitan Police Sikh Association.“Karpal was an invaluable ambassador for the Met who helped break down barriers with London's communities and will always be remembered for being a trailblazer of her time,” said Gupta.PC Sandhu was born to a Sikh family in Zanzibar, East Africa, in 1943 and came to the UK in 1962, where she got a job as a nurse at Chase Farm Hospital.She joined the Met in 1971 at the age of 27, where she served at Hornsey police station before moving to Leyton in east London.“I’m so proud of my mother, and her legacy as the UK’s first female police officer from an Asian and Sikh background. It’s wonderful that 50 years on she is remembered, and is an inspiration to generations of new female police officers joining the Met,” said Romy Sandhu, Karpal Kaur Sandhu’s daughter.At a time when there would have only been about 700 female officers in the Met, she was both the first female Sikh and female South Asian police officer in the UK.Writing in a report at the time, her Chief Superintendent said that she was “proving invaluable with our dealings with the immigrant population and she is also assisting other divisions in this work and also in teaching police officers Asian dialects".He added that she was “energetic, intelligent and conscientious” and enjoyed playing hockey and driving.The Met Police said that PC Sandhu passed away in “tragic circumstances” in November 1973 and sadly, the force lost a promising officer who had a bright future.Sandhu, aged 30, was killed in an altercation with her husband, who was reportedly opposed to her career choice and was later sentenced to life imprisonment for her murder in 1974.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/scotland-yard-remembers-first-ever-sikh-female-police-officer-101612194070987.html
01-02-2021||World||UK PM Johnson warns Covid-19 lockdown may get tougher||Prime Minister Boris Johnson on Sunday warned that the current tiered system of lockdown to arrest the spread of Covid-19 may have to be toughened further as the UK grapples with the new strain of the coronavirus.As teachers’ unions have been calling for a countrywide closure of all schools for a few weeks due to the rapid spread of the new variation, Johnson insisted that parents should send their children to school from Monday in the areas where they remain open as the threat to young kids from the deadly virus is “very small”.However, he admitted that even stricter restrictions for the wider public may be on their way in the coming weeks as the coronavirus cases in the country jumped by 57,725 this weekend, taking the death toll close to 75,000."Alas, restrictions may be about to get tougher," Johnson told the BBC, when asked about the lockdown."It may be that we need to do things in the next few weeks that may be tougher. I'm fully reconciled to that. I think the whole country is fully reconciled to that. There are a range of tougher measures that we might have to take."Schools are safe. It's very important to stress that. The threat to young people, kids, is very small. The risk to staff is very small. The benefits of education are so huge," the Prime Minister said.Under the current rules, most of the country is under the toughest measures already with Tier 4, which involves a near-complete shutdown of most businesses and non-essential retail as the state-funded National Health Service (NHS) comes under an increasing pressure with the mounting rate of hospitalisations.Defending his handling of the pandemic, Johnson, a Covid-19 survivor, said that his government had taken "every reasonable step that we reasonably could" to prepare for winter months.It comes as the NHS prepares to begin rolling out the Oxford University vaccine produced by AstraZeneca from Monday, as hospitals began receiving deliveries of the jabs this weekend after it became the second vaccine to be given regulatory approval after the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine against Covid-19.Johnson said that there will be "around 530,000" doses of the new vaccine available from next week."We’re rolling them out as fast as we can," he said, when asked about the numbers of both vaccines being pumped into the health service network.“We know there are challenges still ahead of us over the coming weeks and months, but I'm confident this is the year we will defeat coronavirus and start building back better," he said.Hundreds of new vaccination sites are due to be up and running from next week as the NHS ramps up its coronavirus immunisation programme with the newly-approved vaccine."The delivery of the Oxford AstraZeneca vaccine marks another first for the NHS, and a major milestone in humanity's battle against coronavirus,” said NHS Chief Executive Sir Simon Stevens.“The vaccination programme – the biggest in NHS history – has got off to a strong start, and by New Year's Day we'd been able to vaccinate more people than the rest of Europe combined.“Now we have a second, more versatile jab in our armoury, and NHS staff are expanding the programme as extra vaccine supplies come onstream. The arrival of the Oxford jab, coupled with more Pfizer vaccine being made available, will allow us to protect many more people faster,” he said.Second doses of either vaccine will now take place within 12 weeks rather than the 21 days initially planned with the Pfizer/BioNTech jab following a change in guidance which aims to accelerate immunisation.This new guidance has proved controversial because initially priority patients were urged to remember to go for their second dose after 21 days.But medical chiefs have defended the change, saying it means more people should get a first dose before the initial group gets their second, which would result in longer term protection against the deadly virus.In March, Johnson was tested positive for the coronavirus and was admitted to hospital and spent three nights in intensive care.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-pm-johnson-warns-covid-19-lockdown-may-get-tougher-101612193214120.html
01-02-2021||World||Min Aung Hlaing: The military chief who engineered the coup against Suu Kyi||Myanmar’s military carried out a coup d’etat in the early hours of Monday, detaining de-facto leader Aung San Suu Kyi of the National League for Democracy (NLD) and other civilian leaders. Myanmar is currently under a military imposed communication blackout, international and domestic broadcasters have been taken off air, internet and phone services have also been suspended.The military in Myanmar, locally known as the Tatmadaw, enjoys the patronage of nationalist Buddhist monks, many of whom strongly supported the ethnic cleansing of Rohingyas. The military’s commander-in-chief Min Aung Hlaing came under the international community's radar because of his role in the ethnic cleansing of Rohingyas of Rakhine state, however, very little is known about this obscure figure whose forces detained Suu Kyi.Who is Min Aung Hlaing?Min Aung Hlaing spent most of his army career fighting rebels on Myanmar’s eastern border where conflicts related to abuse of ethnic minorities were common. In 2015, a few months before Suu Kyi became a stakeholder in Myanmar’s government, he told the BBC there was no fixed timeline for a full civilian rule. “It could be five years or it could be 10 years, I couldn’t say,” he said.According to a former classmate interviewed by Reuters, Min Aung Hlaing was an unremarkable cadet, who had been admitted to the country’s elite Defense Services Academy (DSA) on his third attempt, but he was always promoted albeit at a slower pace than his classmates. “He was promoted regularly and slowly,” the former classmate from DSA told Reuters.His Facebook account carried hundreds of pictures of him meeting and greeting foreign dignitaries overseas and has thousands of ardent followers before it was suspended by Facebook over his role in the violence against Rohingyas.How powerful is he?The commander-in-chief sits at the helm of three important ministries — defence, border affairs, and home affairs. While the civilian administration led by Suu Kyi has the power to enact legislation, the commander-in-chief holds the ultimate authority over their enforcement. The police, to the border guards, the General Administration Department all report to him.The Burmese military finances itself through two holding companies which it runs, Union of Myanmar Economic Holdings Ltd (MEHL) and Myanmar Economic Corporation. Their accounts are not subject to public scrutiny and the operators wield monopolistic control over several key sectors, like beer and tobacco. Hlaing is a major shareholder in MEHL.The military chief has the power to appoint 25% of the parliamentary seats. This grants the military a veto over any proposed changes to the constitution, which requires 75% approval. The constitution forbids Suu Kyi from becoming president because she had children with her British husband, who are foreign nationals, but she is regarded to be the de facto civilian leader and has to share power with the military and Hlaing by default. A fact that critics say explains her denial of the atrocities commissioned by Hlaing.Graft, sanctionMembers of his family including his son, daughter-in-law, and daughter have been accused of corruption, with one report in Myanmar Now citing his son was leased government property at low prices for business purposes.After his role in the 2012 Rohingya massacre came to light Min Aung Hlaing along with four other military generals and their immediate families were hit with travel restrictions. Myanmar Now reported this particular travel ban might have become a thorn for Hlaing’s daughter who had invested vast amounts of money in the country’s nascent movie production scene.After the horrors of Rohingya genocide came to light the world collectively criticised Suu Kyi for her denial of the matter. Sometime later the focus shifted to Hlaing for a brief period, citing him as the chief architect of Myanmar’s ethnic cleansing campaign.“Min Aung Hlaing is calling the shots. Articles about Suu Kyi are exactly what he wants to see; with more focus on her and none on him, he has more freedom to carry out his ethnic cleansing campaign,” wrote Huffington Post.As the focus shifted to Hlaing and the Tatmadaw, the US re-imposed sanctions that former president Barack Obama had lifted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/min-aung-hlaing-the-military-chief-who-engineered-the-coup-against-suu-kyi-101612192389891.html
01-02-2021||World||US Prez Joe Biden to meet Republicans proposing $618 billion Covid-19 aid||President Joe Biden is set to meet on Monday with a group of 10 Republican senators who have proposed $618 billion in coronavirus relief, about a third of the $1.9 trillion he is seeking as congressional Democrats are poised to move ahead without Republican support.The Republicans propose slimmer benefits, including $1,000 in direct payments to individuals earning up to $40,000 a year, or $80,000 for couples, according to a draft obtained by The Associated Press. The proposal would begin to phase out the benefit after that, with no payments for those individuals earning more than $50,000, or $100,000 for couples. That's less than Biden's proposal for $1,400 direct payments at higher incomes levels.The cornerstone of the GOP plan appears to be $160 billion for the health care response — vaccine distribution, a “massive expansion” of testing, protective gear and funds for rural hospitals, according to the draft.Others elements of the package are similar but at far lesser amounts, with $20 billion to reopen schools and $40 billion for Paycheck Protection Program business aid.An invitation to the GOP senators to meet at the White House came hours after the lawmakers sent Biden a letter on Sunday urging him to negotiate rather than try to ram through his relief package solely on Democratic votes. The House and Senate are on track to vote as soon as this week on a budget resolution, which would lay the groundwork for passing an aid package under rules requiring only a simple majority vote in the closely divided Senate.The goal is for passage by March, when extra unemployment assistance and other pandemic aid expires. The meeting to be hosted by Biden would amount to the most public involvement for the president in the negotiations for the next round of virus relief. Democratic and Republican lawmakers are far apart in their proposals for assistance.White House press secretary Jen Psaki said Sunday that Biden had spoken with the leader of the group, Sen. Susan Collins, R-Maine. Though Biden wants “a full exchange of views," Psaki reiterated that the president remains in favor of moving forward with a far-reaching relief package.“With the virus posing a grave threat to the country, and economic conditions grim for so many, the need for action is urgent, and the scale of what must be done is large," Psaki said.In challenging Biden to fulfill his pledge of unity, the group said in its letter that its counterproposal will include $160 billion for vaccines, testing, treatment and personal protective equipment and call for more targeted relief than Biden’s plan to issue $1,400 stimulus checks for most Americans.Winning the support of 10 Republicans would be significant for Biden in the 50-50 Senate where Vice President Kamala Harris is the tie-breaker. If all Democrats were to back an eventual compromise bill, the legislation would reach the 60-vote threshold necessary to overcome potential blocking efforts and pass under regular Senate procedures.“In the spirit of bipartisanship and unity, we have developed a COVID-19 relief framework that builds on prior COVID assistance laws, all of which passed with bipartisan support,” the Republican senators wrote. “Our proposal reflects many of your stated priorities, and with your support, we believe that this plan could be approved quickly by Congress with bipartisan support.”The plea for Biden to give bipartisan negotiations more time comes as the president has shown signs of impatience as the more liberal wing of his party considers passing the relief package through a process known as budget reconciliation. That would allow the bill to advance with only the backing of his Democratic majority.The Republicans did not provide many details of their proposal. One of the signatories, Louisiana Sen. Bill Cassidy, said that it would cost about $600 billion.“If you can't find bipartisan compromise on COVID-19, I don't know where you can find it,” said Ohio Sen. Rob Portman, who also signed the letter.But even as Biden extended the invitation to the Republican lawmakers, Psaki said that $1,400 relief checks, substantial funding for reopening schools, aid to small businesses and hurting families, and more “is badly needed."“As leading economists have said, the danger now is not in doing too much: it is in doing too little," Psaki said. “Americans of both parties are looking to their leaders to meet the moment.”Biden also spoke on Sunday with House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer, who are facing a growing push from the more liberal Democratic members to move forward with Biden's legislation with or without Republican support.The other GOP senators invited to meet with Biden are Lisa Murkowski of Alaska, Mitt Romney of Utah, Shelley Moore Capito of West Virginia, Todd Young of Indiana, Jerry Moran of Kansas, Mike Rounds of South Dakota, and Thom Tillis of North Carolina.Brian Deese, the top White House economic adviser leading the administration’s outreach to Congress, indicated the White House could be open to negotiating on further limiting who would receive stimulus checks. Portman suggested the checks should go to individuals who make no more than $50,000 per year and families capped at $100,000 per year.Under the Biden plan, families with incomes up to $300,000 could receive some stimulus money.“That is certainly a place that we’re willing to sit down and think about, are there ways to make the entire package more effective?” Deese said.As a candidate, Biden predicted his decades in the Senate and his eight years as Barack Obama's vice president gave him credibility as a deal-maker and would help him bring Republicans and Democrats to consensus on the most important matters facing the country.But less than two weeks into his presidency, Biden showed frustration with the pace of negotiations at a time when the economy exhibited further evidence of wear from the pandemic. Last week, 847,000 Americans applied for unemployment benefits, a sign that layoffs remain high as the coronavirus pandemic continues to rage.“I support passing COVID relief with support from Republicans if we can get it. But the COVID relief has to pass — no ifs, ands or buts,” Biden said on Friday.In the letter, the Republican lawmakers reminded Biden that in his inaugural address, he proclaimed that the challenges facing the nation require "the most elusive of things in a democracy: Unity.”Cassidy separately criticized the current Biden plan as “chock-full of handouts and payoffs to Democratic constituency groups."“You want the patina of bipartisanship ... so that’s not unity," Cassidy said.Jared Bernstein, a member of the White House Council of Economic Advisers, said officials needed to see more details from Republicans. Doing too little to stimulate the economy could have enormous impact on the economy in the near- and long-term, he said.“Look, the American people really couldn’t care less about budget process, whether it’s regular order, bipartisanship, whether it’s filibuster, whether it’s reconciliation," Bernstein said. “They need relief, and they need it now.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-prez-joe-biden-to-meet-republicans-proposing-618-billion-covid-19-aid-101612191105307.html
01-02-2021||World||Japan may extend Covid-19 emergency in 10 prefectures until March 7||Japan is planning to extend the state of emergency over the COVID-19 pandemic in 10 prefectures, including Tokyo, until March 7, Japanese media reported on Monday, citing sources.In January, the government imposed a state of emergency in 11 prefectures -- Tokyo, Kanagawa, Saitama, Chiba, Tochigi, Aichi, Gifu, Osaka, Kyoto, Fukuoka, and Hyogo.According to the Kyodo news agency, Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga will make a final decision after consulting with an expert panel on Tuesday.The prefecture of Tochigi, where the number of new infections has been declining, is about to have its state of emergency removed. Meanwhile, Okinawa, which was under consideration for inclusion in the list, is off the hook for the time being.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/japan-may-extend-covid-19-emergency-in-10-prefectures-until-march-7-101612189357130.html
01-02-2021||World||Prince Harry accepts apology, ‘substantial’ damages from UK publication||Britain’s Prince Harry, the Duke of Sussex, has accepted an apology and “substantial” damages from Associated Newspapers over the publication of what he described as “baseless, false and defamatory stories” about him in the ‘Mail on Sunday’ and 'MailOnline', the High Court in London heard on Monday.The 36-year-old grandson of Queen Elizabeth II, who stepped back from frontline royal duties last year, had sued the newspaper group for libel over two "almost identical" articles published in October 2020, which claimed he had snubbed the Royal Marines after his royal exit."The baseless, false and defamatory stories published in the ‘Mail on Sunday’ and on the website ‘MailOnline’ constituted not only a personal attack upon the Duke's character but also wrongly brought into question his service to this country," Jenny Afia, Harry’s lawyer, told the court in a remote hearing.She said that Associated Newspapers had accepted the allegations were false, "albeit after considerable damage was already done".The damages, the amount of which remains undisclosed, are being donated by the royal to the Invictus Games Foundation, the organisation behind Harry’s sporting venture for unwell and wounded war veterans. Harry’s lawyer said this will allow the prince to "feel something good had come out of the situation".The newspaper had published an apology in December 2020, but Harry's legal team believed it was not given the same prominence as the original articles and asked for permission for the settlement to be read out in open court.In a separate statement after the hearing, a spokesperson for Harry – who himself served in the British Army in the past – said his commitment to the military community was "unquestionable".Associated Newspapers is yet to make a statement following Monday's hearing.Prince Harry's wife, Meghan Markle – the Duchess of Sussex, is in a separate ongoing court battle with the newspaper group over articles that reproduced parts of a private handwritten letter to her father. Associated Newspapers denies allegations of breach of copyright and maintains it will strongly contest the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/prince-harry-accepts-apology-substantial-damages-from-uk-publication-101612189107031.html
01-02-2021||World||'Get well' messages pour in for UK's Captain Tom, 100, in hospital with Covid-19||Prime Minister Boris Johnson was among a host of well-wishers from Britain and beyond willing record-breaking fundraiser Captain Tom Moore to pull through after the centenarian was admitted to hospital with Covid-19.Moore, who raised more than 30 million pounds ($41 million)for health service workers by walking 100 lengths of his garden during last year's lockdown, was admitted to Bedford hospital after testing positive for the virus, his daughter said on Sunday."I spoke to the family last night, and all I can say is Captain Tom Moore has been an inspiration to everybody in this country during this pandemic," Johnson told reporters during a visit to northern England."Our thoughts and our prayers are now with him and with his family," he said.The World War Two veteran caught the public's imagination in April, just before his 100th birthday, when he was filmed doing his sponsored walk with the help of a walking frame around his garden in the village of Marston Moretaine, 80kms (50 miles) north of London.He hoped to raise 1,000 pounds. Instead, he raised about 33 million pounds for the National Health Service, broke two Guinness world records, was knighted by Queen Elizabeth, scored a No. 1 single, wrote an autobiography and helped set up a charity."Pray for Tom", the Sun tabloid's front page headline said, a message echoed by other papers which carried prominent pictures and stories about Moore.Moore went on vacation with his family to Barbados in December but his daughter, Hannah Ingram-Moore, said that over the last few weeks he had been treated for pneumonia, and last week tested positive for Covid-19."He was at home with us until today when he needed additional help with his breathing. He is being treated in a ward, although he is not in ICU (intensive care unit)," she said on Twitter.Britain is currently vaccinating all its elderly population against the coronavirus, but Sky News quoted a family representative as saying Moore had not yet received a shot because he was being treated for pneumonia.Messages of support came in from politicians and the likes of the British army, the England soccer team and Michael Ball, with whom he joined to record a number one single with a cover version of "You’ll Never Walk Alone"."My thoughts are with @captaintommoore and his loving family and friends," Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, the director-general of the World Health Organization, said on Twitter."You and the @NHSuk health professionals supporting you are true heroes and shining examples of the spirit needed to overcome #COVID19."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/get-well-messages-pour-in-for-uk-s-captain-tom-100-in-hospital-with-covid19-101612187315339.html
01-02-2021||World||Blinken criticizes Russia, weighs possible sanctions against North Korea: Report||The Biden administration would consider new sanctions against North Korea as well as other possible actions against Russia, US Secretary of State Antony Blinken said in a television interview on Monday as it continued its foreign policy review.Blinken told NBC News the tools aimed at denuclearizing the Korean Peninsula include additional sanctions in coordination with US allies, as well as diplomatic incentives he did not specify.Blinken said he was "deeply disturbed by the violent crackdown" on Russian protesters and arrests of people across the country demanding the release of jailed opposition leader Alexei Navalny."The Russian government makes a big mistake if it believes that this is about us," he said in the interview. "It's about them. It's about the government. It's about the frustration that the Russian people have with corruption, with autocracy, and I think they need to look inward, not outward."In the interview, taped on Sunday, Blinken did not commit to specific sanctions against Moscow. He said he was reviewing a response to the actions against Navalny, as well as Russian election interference in 2020, the Solar Wind Hack and alleged bounties for US soldiers in Afghanistan."The president could not have been clearer in his conversation with President (Vladimir) Putin," Blinken said of President Joe Biden's telephone call last week with the Russian leader.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/blinken-criticizes-russia-weighs-possible-sanctions-against-north-korea-report-101612186605289.html
01-02-2021||World||US voting rights activist Stacey Abrams nominated for Nobel Peace Prize||US voting rights activist and Democratic Party politician Stacey Abrams has been nominated for this year's Nobel Peace Prize for her work to promote nonviolent change via the ballot box, a Norwegian lawmaker said on Monday.Abrams, whose work was credited with boosting voter turnout last year, helping Joe Biden win the US presidency, joins a long list of nominees, including both former President Donald Trump and his son-in-law, former White House adviser Jared Kushner."Abrams' work follows in Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.'s footsteps in the fight for equality before the law and for civil rights," said Lars Haltbrekken, a Socialist Party member of Norway's parliament.King, a Baptist minister who became a leader of the 1960s civil rights movement, won the Nobel prize in 1964 and remains among its most famous laureates."Abrams' efforts to complete King's work are crucial if the United States of America shall succeed in its effort to create fraternity between all its peoples and a peaceful and just society," Haltbrekken said.Thousands of people, from members of parliaments worldwide to former winners, are eligible to propose candidates, and a nomination does not imply endorsement from the Nobel committee in Oslo.Other candidates this year include Russian dissident Alexei Navalny, the World Health Organization and climate campaigner Greta Thunberg.The US Black Lives Matter movement, as well as Daniel Ellsberg, who leaked the "Pentagon Papers" about the Vietnam War, US Congresswoman Barbara Lee, and WikiLeaks, have also been nominated, as have pro-democracy and civil rights campaigners from Belarus to Poland and Hungary.The Norwegian Nobel Committee, which decides who wins the award, does not comment on nominations, but nominators can choose to reveal their picks.Prominent former US winners include Presidents Theodore Roosevelt, Woodrow Wilson, Jimmy Carter and Barack Obama, and former vice president, Al Gore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-voting-rights-activist-stacey-abrams-nominated-for-nobel-peace-prize-101612185452863.html
01-02-2021||World||South Africa to welcome first delivery of AstraZeneca's Covid-19 vaccines||South Africa is preparing a hero's welcome Monday for the delivery of its first COVID-19 vaccines — 1 million doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine produced by the Serum Institute of India.South African President Cyril Ramaphosa will be part of the red-carpet welcome at Johannesburg's O.R. Tambo Intern ational Airport for the shipment of the vaccines, which will be followed up later this month by another 500,000 doses of the vaccine.The AstraZeneca vaccines will be used to inoculate South Africa's frontline health workers, which will be the start of the country’s vaccination campaign. The first jabs are expected to be administered in mid-February, after the vaccines are tested and approved by South Africa's drug regulatory authorities.The government intends to inoculate 40 million people, representing 67% of the country's population of 60 million, by the end of the year.South Africa's scramble to acquire adequate vaccines to reach that ambitious target received a substantial boost with the news that it has acquired 20 million doses of the Pfizer vaccine. They are expected to arrive in the second quarter of the year, the government confirmed to The Associated Press.Minister of Health Zweli Mkhize will announce the cost of the Pfizer vaccines at a later date, said Lwazi Manzi, spokeswoman for the health ministry.In the coming months, South Africa is expecting to receive 6 million vaccine doses from the international COVAX facility, 9 million of the Johnson & Johnson vaccine when it is approved, and an additional 20 million from the African Union’s vaccine acquisition task team. Further acquisitions of vaccines will be needed to meet the government’s inoculation target.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/south-africa-to-welcome-first-delivery-of-astrazeneca-s-covid-19-vaccines-101612185366832.html
01-02-2021||World||EU says discussions will continue with AstraZeneca to get more vaccines in Q1||The European Commission will continue discussions with AstraZeneca with the purpose of receiving more doses of its Covid-19 vaccine than the company has so far pledged in the first quarter of the year, a spokesman said on Monday.On Sunday, the Commission president Ursula von der Leyen said AstraZeneca had raised its target of supplies to the EU to 40 million doses from 31 million until the end of March, after a large cut last week.Its original commitment was of at least 80 million doses, and possibly up to 120 million in the first quarter, EU sources told Reuters last week.The offer by AstraZeneca was an improvement but "it is definitely not the amount which we expect to receive until the end of the first quarter, so of course discussions will continue," the spokesman told a news conference.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/eu-says-discussions-will-continue-with-astrazeneca-to-get-more-vaccines-in-q1-101612184409869.html
01-02-2021||World||Amazon ratchets up anti-union pressure on workers in Alabama||Amazon.com Inc. has unleashed a public-relations campaign at its warehouse in Bessemer, Alabama, hoping to persuade more than 5,800 workers to reject the Retail, Wholesale and Department Store Union. Employees have been ordered to attend meetings where managers sow doubts about the unionization drive, according to two workers who attended. The meetings typically last about half an hour and target about 15 employees at a time, one said, frustrating workers because they fall behind in their duties during the sessions and have to catch up later.“They present anti-union propaganda thinly veiled as factual information,” said the worker, who requested anonymity for fear of reprisal. Both workers said questions about potentially positive aspects of union membership are brushed off. One recalled asking why “Amazon is beating us over the head with these ‘facts’ in such a one-sided way,” and said the manager responded: “Amazon is very clear with our stance with unions.”With voting due to start next month and run through late March, the stakes are high for both sides. A defeat for the union would dent the reputation of the labor movement, which has failed time and again to organize workers at America’s second-largest private employer after Walmart. A union victory, on the other hand, would provide a tactical roadmap for the hundreds of thousands of people toiling in Amazon facilities. That, in turn, could force the company to ease the sometimes frantic pace of work and even bring wages more in line with the warehousing and transportation industry, where union jobs on average pay 34% more than non-union ones, according to federal data.  “I think that this is the most significant union election that has been held in many years,” said Stuart Appelbaum, RWDSU’s president. “Because we’re not just talking about another company, we’re talking about Amazon.”In an emailed statement, Amazon spokesperson Heather Knox said the company doesn’t believe the union represents the majority of its workers’ views. “Our employees choose to work at Amazon because we offer some of the best jobs available everywhere we hire, and we encourage anyone to compare our total compensation package, health benefits and workplace environment to any other company with similar jobs.”Confirming that the company is holding information sessions with workers in Bessemer, Knox said: “We will help employees understand the facts of joining a union. If the union vote passes, it will impact everyone at the site and it’s important associates understand what that means for them and their day-to-day life working at Amazon.”‘Cheating Rats’Amazon, which employs more than 800,000 people in the US, has long trained managers to spot and snuff out nascent labor activism. In a 45-minute video created several years ago, cartoon avatars wearing safety vests told managers to avoid threatening employees and instead to express as a personal opinion the company’s aversion to a unionized workplace.“Opinions can be mild, like ‘I’d rather work with associates directly,’ or strong, ‘The unions are lying, cheating rats.’ The law protects both,” the avatar said. “Amazon prefers a mild opinion, expressed strongly.”Managers have been known to invent negative stories about unions, despite being counseled to go easy on the rhetoric. During an attempt to organize a Middletown, Delaware, warehouse in 2016, a manager told hundreds of workers that when his father died, a union had abandoned the family. The story turned out to be fabricated, the New York Times reported at the time, but it resonated all the same.Amazon says it no longer uses the training video. Yet its essential message remains the same: Unions may be appropriate at other companies, but at Amazon, they risk imperiling a business that prioritizes speed, innovation and the customer above all else. Despite being criticized over the years for its treatment of workers, the company has had little trouble keeping unions out of its US operations. Amazon offers a higher starting wage than most of the retail industry, and turnover is so high that employees rarely stick around long enough to become passionate about improving working conditions. When activism has taken root, Amazon has responded by shuttering facilities, shifting operations elsewhere and firing up its public-relations machine.Then came the pandemic. Besides fueling record sales with shoppers hunkered down at home, the outbreak ignited employee activism of unprecedented intensity. Workers in several warehouses and Whole Foods stores walked off the job to demand better protections from the ravages of Covid-19. Amazon fired some employees who led or participated in the wildcat strikes. The workers say they were punished for their activism. Amazon says it respects workers' rights and was reacting to policy violations.The Bessemer warehouse opened in March, just as Covid-19 infections began appearing in Amazon’s U.S. workforce. Two months later, protests erupted over law enforcement’s treatment of Black Americans, amplifying calls for racial equity that spread from the street to the workplace. The rallies resonated in Bessemer, where most residents—and many of Amazon’s employees—are Black.Workers there contacted a RWDSU organizer in the summer, frustrated by Amazon’s productivity quotas, The New York Times reported last week, an account confirmed by the union. Organizers began collecting signed cards proposing a vote in August. The union registered a domain name in September for a website to make its case, and the following month union organizers, including local poultry plant workers, began showing up outside the warehouse before dawn to hand out fliers.“We see it as much of a civil-rights battle as a labor battle,” Appelbaum said. “The overwhelming majority, perhaps, greater than 85% of the workers at this facility are African American. And their major concern seems to be that they’re not treated with respect.”Amazon, for its part, initially stayed quiet, responding to news reports with a brief statement but eschewing the corporate blogs or Twitter posts from executives it often rolls out in response to critiques about working conditions.Around Christmas, the company set up a website featuring upbeat Amazon employees smiling from behind masks (among them, the facility’s manager), criticizing union dues and suggesting a hashtag, #doitwithoutdues for like-minded workers. So far, the hashtag has been hijacked on social media by union supporters. Now, workers are receiving texts from Amazon, and the facility is peppered with signs making the case the company is a benevolent employer. As the vote nears, workers expect Amazon to ratchet up its messaging campaign. Onion SatireThe drama unfolding in Bessemer has attracted considerable attention. The National Football League Players Association has thrown in with the workers, US Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont has tweeted his support, and The Onion posted a satirical story about a drone masquerading as a worker and infiltrating a warehouse. “Our total compensation package rules!” the drone exclaimed. “I just want to keep hovering, I mean, walking, around the warehouse floor without fear of retaliation from management. Plus, who wants to pay union dues?”It’s hard to predict which way the vote will go, in part because Amazon’s health benefits and $15 starting wage go farther in Bessemer than in bigger cities previously targeted by unions. Bessemer has struggled economically since the decline of the area’s steelmaking and railcar manufacturing in the 1980s and 1990s.Moreover, Amazon has demonstrated before how persuasive it can be. Back in 2014, Andy Powell, then an organizer for the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers, thought he had enough support to organize a few dozen technicians at the Amazon warehouse in Middleton, Delaware. Almost all signed cards in favor of holding a vote, he recalled in an interview.But just days before an election to formalize union representation, some workers balked. Powell said Amazon’s internal PR campaign had convinced two technicians—both former union members set to receive retirement benefits from their past work—to tell their peers that unions weren’t all they were cracked up to be.The vote, seven years ago this month, was 21 no, 6 yes. “They beat us up pretty hard,” Powell said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/amazon-ratchets-up-anti-union-pressure-on-workers-in-alabama-101612181071868.html
01-02-2021||World||Oxford kept Covid-19 vaccine trial volunteers in dark about dosing error, letter says||About 1,500 of the initial volunteers in a late-stage clinical trial of the Oxford/AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine were given the wrong dose, but weren't informed that a mistake had been made after the blunder was discovered, documents obtained by Reuters show.Instead, the dosing mishap was presented to the trial participants in a letter dated June 8 as an opportunity for University of Oxford researchers to learn how well the vaccine works at different doses. The letter was signed by the trial's chief investigator, Oxford professor Andrew J. Pollard, and sent to the trial subjects.As Reuters reported on Dec. 24, participants were given about a half dose due to a measuring mistake by Oxford researchers. The Pollard letter didn't acknowledge any error. Nor did it disclose that researchers had reported the issue to British medical regulators, who then told Oxford to add another test group to receive the full dose, in line with the trial's original plan.There is no suggestion there was any risk to the health of trial participants.Much is riding on the British-developed vaccine, which is being rolled out across the UK and has been touted as a low-cost weapon against the pandemic. The jab has come under scrutiny because of the dosing error in the Oxford trial and a paucity of data about its efficacy in older people who are most vulnerable to the virus.Reuters shared the letter – which it obtained from the university through a Freedom of Information request – with three different experts in medical ethics. The ethicists all said it indicates the researchers may not have been transparent with trial participants. Volunteers in clinical trials are supposed to be kept fully informed about any changes."They are not clear at all about what they need to be clear about – what's going on, what they knew, the rationale for undertaking further research," said Arthur L. Caplan, founding head of the Division of Medical Ethics at New York University Grossman School of Medicine. "It is lost in a snowstorm of verbiage."Steve Pritchard, a spokesman for Oxford, told Reuters: "The half-dose group was unplanned, but we did know in advance that there was a discrepancy in the dose measurements and discussed this with the regulators before dosing and when the dosing was revised."Pritchard also said, "We have not stated that a dosing error occurred."Pollard didn't respond to a request for comment.The spokesman's suggestion that no error was made is contradicted by documents produced last year by Oxford and its vaccine partner, drugs giant AstraZeneca PLC. In December, Reuters reported that a "Global Statistical Analysis Plan" by Oxford/AstraZeneca, dated Nov. 17 and later published in the scientific journal The Lancet, called the dosing discrepancy "a potency miscalculation."A spokesman for AstraZeneca declined to comment.The Health Research Authority, a British government agency responsible for approving medical research and ensuring it is ethical, said in a statement that changes to the study design and the letter sent to participants were approved by one of its ethics committees.The Oxford/AstraZeneca vaccine recently has received authorization for use in a growing number of countries, including the United Kingdom, the European Union and India. The UK became the first country to approve it, and began rolling out the vaccine on January 4.But questions surrounding the clinical trials continue to plague the vaccine. Last week, Germany's vaccine committee recommended it should only be given to people aged under 65, while the EU, which authorized it on Friday for people aged 18 and over, lowered its reported efficacy rate from 70.4% to 60%. In both cases, authorities cited a lack of sufficient data from the clinical trials. The EU also has sharply criticized AstraZeneca for cutting back its planned vaccine deliveries to the continent over the next few months. The company has said it is doing its best to boost supplies.The mistaken half-dose – which prompted the letter in June to trial participants – continues to be a factor in the reported efficacy of the Oxford/AstraZeneca vaccine.Oxford had reported interim results in November that showed the efficacy rate for trial subjects who mistakenly received a half-dose and a subsequent full-dose booster shot was 90%, and that the rate for those who received two full doses was 62%. Combining data from the two dosing regimens resulted in an efficacy of 70.4%.In authorizing the vaccine, UK regulator, the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA), accepted the pooled results, but didn't approve administering the half-dose/full-dose regimen. "There is not persuasive evidence of a real difference in" vaccine efficacy between the two different dosing regimens, it said."Recent changes"The vaccine's late-stage clinical trial began on May 28. Within days, Oxford researchers realized trial participants had been given lower doses than planned after they displayed milder than expected side effects, such as fever and fatigue. They alerted British medical regulators.On June 5, the researchers amended the trial protocol at the request of regulators to add a new group that would receive the correct full dose of the vaccine. Three days later, they alerted trial subjects to what they called "recent changes in the study" in a two-page letter attached to an updated 13-page "Participant Information Sheet."The letter, signed by chief investigator Pollard, stated that researchers "are not sure what dose of vaccine is most likely to be protective against COVID disease" and explained that doses "are measured using standard scientific test methods." It said the late-stage trial participants received a dose measured using one method and that another group will receive a dose measured using a different test to match the dose given in another clinical trial of the vaccine.It said the lower dose is "still in the normal range of doses that are used in clinical trials" and "if it can provide protection, it might be better for use in vaccine programmes."Caplan said the explanation would be of "no interest whatsoever to the subject because it's too technical. To me, that qualifies as gobbledygook. What you want to know is, why are they doing this, we made an error, it involved dosing, we're not worried about it."He and other ethicists interviewed by Reuters said researchers are obligated to be forthcoming with test subjects when things go wrong."As a letter purporting to explain a) an error and b) a change of protocol I find this entirely inadequate," said Simon Woods, a professor of bioethics at Newcastle University, in an email. "It reads like a routine update (and a complex one at that)."Emma Cave, a professor of healthcare law at Durham University's law school, said: "Presenting the dosing variation as a planned change in the study is potentially a breach of trust if in fact the dosing resulted from an error. The letter makes clear the dosing change but not the reason for the change."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/oxford-kept-covid-19-vaccine-trial-volunteers-in-dark-about-dosing-error-101612178767903.html
01-02-2021||World||Iran tells US that a mere signature won’t fix nuclear deal||Iran said the U.S. has to remove key economic sanctions and return to full compliance with the 2015 nuclear deal before any talks on resetting the Islamic Republic’s atomic program.The U.S. “cannot return to the nuclear accord with one signature in the way that they left with one,” Foreign Ministry spokesman Saeed Khatibzadeh said in a press conference in Tehran on Monday.The statement is a clear signal to the Biden administration that Iran expects relief from sanctions, and the full restoration of the United Nations resolution that underpins the deal, before it starts scaling back its nuclear activities. It also illustrates the major gulf between the longtime rivals. Last week, new Secretary of State Anthony Blinken said Iran needs to act first and any U.S. return to the accord may take a while.“We’re waiting for U.S. action to effectively undo sanctions, give us access to our own funds, permit easy oil exports and allow the transfer of oil revenue, shipping and insurance,” Khatibzadeh told reporters, referring to billions of dollars of payments for oil exports that are trapped overseas because of banking sanctions.Trump ExitIran began enriching uranium to levels that exceed allowed limits after Donald Trump pulled the U.S. from the accord and imposed sanctions in 2018.Khatibzadeh said there won’t be any direct bilateral talks with the U.S. until it first returns to the original bloc of six powers that brokered the accord. Washington can then join discussions over Iran’s nuclear work but within the existing mechanism that’s outlined within the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action.“As soon as the U.S. starts to take effective measures, Iran will respond proportionately,” Khatibzadeh said.The stalemate raises questions over whether the crisis can be resolved before the Islamic Republic hits a deadline later this month to secure sanctions removal, or else end voluntary international nuclear inspections. Moderates in Iran are also hoping for a boost from the lifting of some sanctions ahead of presidential elections set for June.The White House on Friday appointed Robert Malley, who served on the Obama administration team that negotiated the original deal, to serve as envoy to Iran. Malley has a long background in conflict resolution in the Middle East and his arrival was broadly welcomed by proponents of the accord.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/iran-tells-us-that-a-mere-signature-won-t-fix-nuclear-deal-101612179236864.html
01-02-2021||World||Hong Kong tycoon Jimmy Lai to wait for bail verdict in national security case||Hong Kong media tycoon and Beijing critic Jimmy Lai, the most high-profile person charged under the national security law, will remain in custody after the city's top court said it would announce its verdict on his bail application at a later date.Lai had been in custody since Dec. 3, except for when he was released on bail for about a week late last year. He was granted a HK$10 million ($1.3 million) bail by a lower court on Dec. 23 only for the Court of Final Appeal to bring him back into custody on Dec. 31 for another hearing.His return to custody was related to Article 42 of the security law, which says that "no bail shall be granted to a criminal suspect or defendant unless the judge has sufficient grounds for believing that the criminal suspect or defendant will not continue to commit acts endangering national security".On Monday, the Court of Final Appeal said the judgement will be handed down on a date to be notified at a later stage.Lai was arrested in August when about 200 police officers raided the newsroom of his Apple Daily tabloid newspaper.Beijing imposed the sweeping national security law on the former British colony in June 2020 after months of pro-democracy protests. The law punishes anything China considers subversion, secession, terrorism or collusion with foreign forces with up to life in prison.Critics say it is aimed at crushing dissent and it erodes freedoms in the semi-autonomous, Chinese-ruled city. Its supporters say it restores stability after months of unrest.Prosecutors have accused Lai of breaching the law over statements he made on July 30 and Aug. 18, in which they allege he requested foreign interference in Hong Kong's affairs.Under the new law, the onus is on the defendant to prove they would not be a national security threat if released on bail. Under Hong Kong's common law-based legal system, the onus has traditionally been on the prosecution to prove its case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hong-kong-tycoon-jimmy-lai-to-wait-for-bail-verdict-in-national-security-case-101612175919698.html
01-02-2021||World||Court fines Navalny's wife after protests in Moscow||A Moscow court on Monday has ordered the wife of Russian opposition leader Alexei Navalny to pay a fine of 20,000 rubles (about $265) for violating protest regulations after she attended a demonstration in the Russian capital to demand his release.Tens of thousands took to the streets in dozens of Russian cities on Sunday, chanting slogans against Russian President Vladimir Putin and demanding that authorities free Navalny, who was jailed last month and faces a prison term.His wife, Yulia Navalnaya, joined a protest in Moscow that took place despite unprecedented security measures that city authorities took ahead of the rally.She was quickly detained and charged with participating in an unauthorized rally. A court on Monday ordered Navalnaya to pay a fine, her lawyer Svetlana Davydova told the Interfax news agency. Davydova said the defense plans to appeal the ruling.In the largest outpouring of discontent Russia had seen in years, mass protests engulfed dozens of Russian cities for the second weekend in a row despite efforts by Russian authorities to stifle the unrest triggered by the jailing of 44-year-old Navalny, the Kremlin's fiercest critic.Navalny was arrested Jan. 17 upon his return from Germany, where he spent five months recovering from nerve-agent poisoning that he blames on the Kremlin. Russian authorities have rejected the accusations. He faces a prison term for alleged probation violations from a 2014 money-laundering conviction which has been widely seen as politically motivated.Russian authorities cracked down hard on the demonstrators Sunday, detaining over 5,400 people across the country, according to OVD-Info, a legal aid group that monitors arrests at protests. The group said it was the most in its nine-year history of keeping records in the Putin era.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/court-fines-navalny-s-wife-after-protests-in-moscow-101612178813624.html
01-02-2021||World||Myanmar military says will return power after free, fair election||Myanmar's military said on Monday a free and fair election would be held and it would hand power to the winning party, after it seized control of the country, citing a flawed ballot last year.In an article on an official military website summarising a meeting of the new junta, it said commander-in-chief Senior General Min Aung Hlaing had pledged to practice "the genuine discipline-flourishing multiparty democratic system" in a fair manner.It gave no timeframe for elections, but earlier said its state of emergency would last one year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/myanmar-military-says-will-return-power-after-free-fair-election-101612177430838.html
01-02-2021||World||Myanmar's military coup: What led to Aung San Suu Kyi’s detention?||Myanmar’s armed forces on Monday said they have carried a coup d’etat and detained de-facto leader Aung San Suu Kyi and other politicians after weeks of heightened tensions owing to a disputed election. The military, which ruled Myanmar for nearly five decades, said it has again taken control of the country under a state of emergency for one year, handing power to commander-in-chief Min Aung Hlaing.National League for Democracy (NLD) leader Suu Kyi led the party to a landslide victory in the 2020 elections but the military alleged the polls were marred with irregularities, calling the results invalid. The military had questioned the authenticity of nearly 9 million votes, suggesting the possibility of “voting malpractice.”It demanded the government or the United Elections Commission (UEC), a national level electoral commission responsible for organising and overseeing elections, to prove it at a special session. However, the UEC asserted that there was no evidence of electoral fraud, saying each vote was “counted transparently and witnessed by election candidates, election staff, the media, observers and other civil society organizations”.Read | Myanmar’s army chief challenges Joe Biden, bets big on ChinaAfter the demand was rejected, the military, which is also known as the Tatmadaw, last week signalled to seize the power to settle the claims of irregularities. The diplomatic missions of several Western countries, including the US, and the Delegation of the EU had warned against a coup, urging the military to adhere to democratic norms. They registered their opposition to any attempt to alter the election results or impede the democratic transition.However, the military intervened in the democratic process just before the first session of parliament since the November elections. The newly-elected lawmakers would have approved the next civilian government during the parliament session which was scheduled for February 1. Meanwhile, the agency in charge of air travel in Myanmar announced that it has stopped all passenger flights in the country.What is the military’s stake in Myanmar’s government?The Tatmadaw drafted the 2008 Constitution after decades of military rule but inserted provisions to safeguard its own role in national affairs. The military reserved 25 per cent of seats in the parliament for itself and also fielded a political party as its proxy to contest elections. This made sure that the military maintained its supremacy in the country. But the poor performance of the military-backed Union Solidarity and Development Party (USDP) and a sweep by NLD didn’t go well with the armed forces, especially at a time when state counsellor Suu Kyi has emerged as a strong nationalist leader. The military has now pledged to hold fresh elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/myanmars-military-coup-what-led-to-the-detention-of-aung-san-suu-kyi-101612175708651.html
01-02-2021||World||UK marks first Covid-19 vaccine milestone with care home protection||The UK government on Monday said it has hit a “crucial milestone" in its COVID-19 vaccination programme, with figures indicating that residents at every eligible care home with older residents across England now administered a life-saving jab.The National Health Service (NHS) said nurses, general practitioners (GPs) and other NHS staff have offered the life-saving jab to people living at more than 10,000 care homes with older residents, with only a small remainder have had their visits deferred by local directors of public health for safety reasons during a local outbreak. Those homes will be visited and jabbed as soon as NHS staff are allowed to do so.“Today marks a crucial milestone in our ongoing race to vaccinate the most vulnerable against this deadly disease. We said we would prioritise and protect care home residents, and that is exactly what we have done,” said Prime Minister Boris Johnson.“There will be difficult moments to come, and the number of cases and people in hospital remains dangerously high. But vaccines are our route out of the pandemic, and having protected 8.9 million people with a first dose so far, our rollout programme will only accelerate from here on,” he said.Ian Turner, Executive Chair of the Registered Nursing Home Association, quoted Mahatma Gandhi in reference to the major rollout drive to protect the elderly from the deadly virus.“As Mahatma Gandhi said ‘the true measure of any society can be found in how it treats its most vulnerable’, and the pandemic has brought that quotation to the fore," he said.The NHS said that vaccination staff are now returning to homes that have been covered to jab any resident who was unable to have it during the previous visit because they had recently had COVID-19 or for other clinical reasons.“It has been a privilege to vaccinate some of the most vulnerable people and the wonderful people who look after them. Many have had little contact with the outside world throughout the pandemic and so it has been truly humbling for all, giving them hope and importantly protection against the disease,” said Dr Nikki Kanani, a practising GP and NHS England's primary care director."I would urge anyone who is offered the vaccine to come forward," she said.The UK’s Joint Committee of Vaccinations and Immunisations (JCVI), which set the priority groups for the COVID-19 vaccines, made older adult care home residents and their staff high priority groups due to being at particular risk from COVID-19 because of their age and frailty.NHS England offered GPs up to GBP 30 extra to vaccinate care home residents in January to cover the increased time and logistics required in bringing the vaccine to care homes.“Our priority has been to protect care home residents throughout this pandemic, and I’m delighted we have reached this monumental milestone to protect the most at risk,” said UK Health Secretary Matt Hancock.“We cannot be complacent, and it is absolutely imperative everyone continues to play their part by staying home and protecting the NHS while the rollout continues,” he warned.According to the NHS, which is conducting the biggest programme of its kind in its history, vaccinations are now being administered at more than 250 hospitals, over 1,000 GP-led services, 117 high street pharmacies and 47 large-scale vaccination centres across the country with more coming online over the coming days and weeks.“With over 2 million more people vaccinated in communities across England this past week, the NHS's COVID-19 vaccination campaign is off to a flying start – with nearly nine out of ten people aged 80 and above, and over three quarters of people aged 75 and over, now having had their first jab," said Sir Simon Stevens, NHS Chief Executive.UK Care Minister Helen Whately said the government is working "on what we can do to try and enable visiting to restart" in care homes to enable families to be reunited.The NHS is currently administering the Pfizer/BioNTech and Oxford/AstraZeneca jabs, with three other jabs by Moderna, Novavax and Janssen also expected to come into the system in the coming months. For care homes, it has largely been the Oxford/AstraZeneca jabs being delivered due to the logistics of easier mobility and storage requirements.The UK government has set a target to vaccinate care home residents and carers, people over 70 and frontline care workers by February 15.Meanwhile, a further 587 virus-related deaths were reported on Sunday, which takes the UK's COVID-19 death toll to 106,158 as the country remains under a strict 'stay-at-home' lockdown to keep control over a very high infection rate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-marks-first-covid-19-vaccine-milestone-with-care-home-protection-101612174603310.html
01-02-2021||World||Variants spreading in US fan the need to ‘crush’ Covid quickly||A Covid-19 mutation that likely confers partial resistance to the antibodies produced by vaccines is now in the US, spurring scientists to probe new ways to battle a disease that’s constantly changing and could remain active for years.The South African variant has already spread quickly across the African continent and has been seen in at least 24 countries outside of Africa. It was reported in South Carolina on January 28 and in Maryland two days later. If that looks like just a beachhead, note that a UK mutation first seen in Colorado on December 29 has been detected in 29 US states in less than a month. Both variants are considered more contagious than the original strain.Late-stage trials released last week on vaccines developed by Johnson & Johnson and Novavax Inc. showed their shots to be generally potent against early forms of Covid-19. But results from studies done in South Africa told a less impressive tale. The J&J shot was found to be 72% effective in the US, but that fell to 57% in South Africa. Novavax’s shot, 89% effective in the UK, was only 49% effective in South Africa.The results are “sobering,” said Eric Topol, director of the Scripps Research Translational Institute in San Diego. “We see an unequivocal drop-off in efficacy.”That means that vaccine makers must now divert attention to work on either booster shots or a new, adjusted vaccine that can work better against the South African mutation, known scientifically as B.1.351, even as the world is ramping up injections of the first shots put into use, he said.“We are having enough of a struggle getting the first round of vaccines in,” Topol said.Lab TestsBefore the J&J and Novavax results were made public, lab tests looking at the number of antibodies induced by vaccines from Pfizer Inc. and Moderna Inc. already in use suggest that while they may be less potent against the South African variant, they still had enough punch to hold it off.But what that meant in terms of illness in the real world was unclear. The latest outcomes offer a more precise indication, said Anthony Fauci, the top US infectious disease expert, on a conference call on Friday.“It’s really a wake up call for us to be nimble, and to be able to adjust as this virus will continue for certain to evolve and to mutate,” he said. “Now we have the real-world clinical consequences, and we can see that we are going to be challenged.”In statements at the New York Press Club on Friday, Fauci said it was “concerning that you need to stay ahead of these mutants, and essentially crush this outbreak so there’s no more replication. And when there’s no more replication, you’re not going to have any mutations.”In laboratory results reported before the new Novavax and J&J trial data was in, scientists from the Aaron Diamond AIDS Research Center at Columbia University found that the Pfizer and Moderna vaccines were 6.5 to 8.6-fold less potent against the South African mutation.100 Million Chances“Looking at our results you cannot say this would doom the vaccine. That would be wrong,” said David Ho, who leads the lab. “But I think it is equally wrong to say everything is rosy.”The world has “allowed the virus to infect 100 million people already,” he said. “So that is 100 million chances for mutation.”The late-stage trials reported last week by J&J and Novavax could potentially pave the way for them to be authorized for use. J&J’s vaccine offers users a single shot regimen, as opposed to the two-dose versions authorized for Pfizer and Moderna. The drug giant plans to file this week with the US Food and Drug Administration for an emergency-use authorization, company officials said. J&J’s top scientist said this month he expects clearance in March.The Novavax shot, meanwhile, is likely to get its first approval in the UK, and the company is discussing with US regulators whether trial data from other countries could be part of the shot’s review, Chief Executive Officer Stan Erck said. Novavax is still recruiting patients for a trial in the US and Mexico, Erck said in an interview on Bloomberg Television.Still, Pfizer, Moderna and J&J have all said they’re starting work on developing booster shots or other approaches to buttress their vaccines. It remains unclear how long the shots will immunize people against Covid-19, and new mutations may require changes in their makeup.First StepFor the US, the first important step is to know when mutations are around. In another Friday briefing, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Director Rochelle Walensky said the US has now asked each state to send at least 750 samples a week to be sequenced to determine what variants may be here and how widely they may be spreading.She warned that the existing US system to detect different mutations is too slow for public health interventions to contain them.“By the time someone has symptoms, gets a test, has a positive result and we get the sequence, our opportunity for doing real case control and contact tracing is largely gone,” Walensky said. “We should be treating every case as if it’s a variant during this pandemic right now.”While nations worldwide, including the US, are seeking to contain the spread of the variants with travel restrictions, history suggests that’s a near impossibility.Industry PlaybookMeanwhile, Peter Marks, director of the FDA’s Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research, said the agency is seeking to finalize a playbook with the industry to address mutations.If the agency feels the virus has drifted enough to require a different sequence, it will require small trials to make sure the vaccines produce an immune response, he said. The first few studies may have to go through an advisory committee, according to Marks, but the agency is looking to streamline the process as much as possible and may require less data over time.“We would intend to be pretty nimble with this,” Marks said on an American Medical Association webinar, “so we get these variants covered as quickly as possible because it is clear they can spread pretty quickly.”Long FightThe bottom line from scientists: This is a fight that could go for a long time.Vaccines that work well now may fade in the future unless strong booster shots are devised. And it could be that Covid-19 morphs into something akin to influenza, requiring periodic booster shots over the years to keep it at bay.“The implications are really worrisome,” said Peter Hotez, the dean of the National School of Tropical Medicine at Baylor College of Medicine, in an interview Thursday after the Novavax results were announced. “All the vaccine makers now have to make decisions” on how to proceed.In the meantime, it’s now a race to vaccinate the US and Europe before the South Africa variant becomes more common or, worse yet, new mutations develop that make the virus more resistant.In his New York Press Club comments, Fauci was asked what keeps him up at night. His answer: “A mutant, where it really escapes everything.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/variants-spreading-in-us-fan-the-need-to-crush-covid-quickly-101612173862134.html
01-02-2021||World||Hong Kong government critic Jimmy Lai returns to court||Prominent Hong Kong democracy advocate and newspaper founder Jimmy Lai returned to court Monday to contest an attempt by the government to keep him in jail while facing charges under a sweeping new national security law.No verdict was announced following the hearing and Lai remained in custody.Lai was brought to the Court of Final Appeal in a prison van and entered through an inflatable tunnel as large numbers of journalists sought to capture the scene.Lai was arrested last month in a sweep against pro-democracy activists accused over their involvement in 2019 anti-government protests. First refused bail, Lai was released on appeal, leading to attacks on Hong Kong's judiciary by the ruling Communist Party newspaper People’s Daily. He was returned to jail on New Year's Eve ahead of a new hearing.Hong Kong has jailed several pro-democracy activists in recent months, including student protest leaders Joshua Wong and Agnes Chow, for their involvement in the anti-government protests.The national security law was imposed on Hong Kong by Beijing after the city's local legislature was unable to overcome opposition to its enactment. Opponents see the law as a betrayal of China's pledge to maintain the city's legal, civil and human rights for 50 years after its handover from British colonial rule in 1997.The law criminalizes acts of subversion, secession, terrorism and collusion with foreign powers to intervene in the city’s affairs, effectively curbing most opposition political activity and subjecting private speech and social media postings to possible criminal punishment. Serious offenders could face up to life imprisonment.Lai, 72, made his fortune in the retail clothing trade before branching out into media. He stepped down as publisher of the Apple Daily newspaper but the publication remains a popular forum for opposition views in a media landscape dominated by Beijing-backed outlets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hong-kong-government-critic-jimmy-lai-returns-to-court-101612173910581.html
01-02-2021||World||Japan considers extension of Covid emergency as economy sputters||Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga looks set to extend a state of emergency for major metro areas that will inflict more pain on the economy, as he tries to stem the latest wave of Covid-19 cases and reverse a fall in public support.Parliament’s lower house on Monday approved measures to add teeth to emergency orders including fines for bars and restaurants that defy instructions to close early. The legislation was expected to gain final approval later this week in the upper house, which is also controlled by Suga’s ruling coalition.The emergency covering 11 areas including Tokyo, Osaka and Nagoya has helped halt a rapid acceleration of virus cases threatening the developed world’s oldest population. While infection numbers have started to drop under the guidelines, Suga’s government has said the number of cases remains worryingly high.Suga is planning to extend the emergency by about one month beyond its February 7 deadline and the possible removal of Tochigi prefecture from the list as the situation improves there, according to local media reports. The announcement could come as early as Monday, broadcaster FNN said.Japan’s current measures including a request that people work from home are far less stringent and enforceable than the lockdowns of some European nations. But they have already caused a sea change in the view of economists. Instead of the year starting with a slowing recovery, some of them now see a double-digit contraction looming.The prime minister, who runs the risk of being replaced by the ruling party ahead of an election that must be held by October, has seen his support slide since he took office about four months ago. Critics contend his focus on propping up the economy has slowed efforts to stem infections.Extending the emergency will prolong the distress for businesses, but Suga looks to have little choice if he is to control the virus, shore up his leadership and keep alive the hope of holding the Olympic Games in summer.“The damage to businesses would be enormous,” said sushi restaurant owner Mamoru Sugiyama, referring to an extension. Bars and eateries are among the firms hardest hit by the guidelines. He has temporarily closed his restaurant, which boasts a history of 130 years in the swanky Tokyo shopping district of Ginza.“Some businesses are about to use up their loans and I think if the emergency continues through February, firms may start going bust one after another, even in Ginza,” said Sugiyama, who also heads a coalition of about 370 local restaurants and bars.A Nikkei/TV Tokyo survey suggests the public is in favor of an extension. The Jan. 29-31 poll showed 90% of respondents supported the lengthening of the emergency.The government has said the emergency can end when the virus crisis eases to Stage 3 on a four-stage scale that draws on six data points.In Tokyo, that would mean daily infections falling below 500 and staying there. Tokyo reported 393 new infections on Monday, the first reading below 500 since Dec. 28 and well below the city’s daily record of 2,447 on January 7.As of Jan. 27, the capital’s hospital bed occupancy rate was 73% and critical care units were at 113% of capacity, according to the health ministry. Both numbers would have to come down below 50% to reach Stage 3.“We can see that the state of emergency has had an impact, but it’s been too weak,” said Yoshihito Niki, a professor of clinical infectious diseases at Showa University’s School of Medicine in Tokyo, indicating a need to prolong the measures. “The government will need to exercise patience at least through February.”Parliament’s powerful lower house on Monday approved measures to add teeth to emergency orders including fines for bars and restaurants that defy instructions to close early. The legislation was expected to gain final approval later this week in the upper house, controlled by Suga’s ruling coalition.Since the declaration of the emergency in early January, economists warned that the less stringent advisories compared with the first emergency in April, risked being insufficient and causing more damage over time. This time, schools remained open and streets continued to see foot traffic, albeit smaller than during normal times, despite repeated calls from officials to stay home.Toshihiro Nagahama, economist at Dai-Ichi Life Research Institute, sees an emergency extended to two months shaving about 3 trillion yen off the economy.While the consensus among analysts is for the economy to shrink an annualized 2.5% this quarter, economists Yoshimasa Maruyama and Koya Miyamae at SMBC Nikko Securities Inc., now see a stronger finish to 2020 whiplashing into an 11.5% contraction in the three months through March.Still, an unemployment rate of just 2.9% and year-on-year falls in the number of bankruptcies show that spending and loan support from the government and the Bank of Japan have helped cushion the economic blow of the pandemic so far. Suga’s administration got a third extra budget through parliament last week offering another round of help for businesses, medical facilities and the economy.The concern going ahead is how much longer companies can hang on if the emergency is extended and consumer spending remains subdued.Yasuhide Yajima, chief economist at NLI Research Institute, warns there won’t be a dramatic revival of growth even when the emergency ends unless there’s more concrete reassurance for the public.“Regardless of the state of emergency, consumption isn’t going to come back until we see the impact of vaccination,” Yajima said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/japan-considers-extension-of-covid-emergency-as-economy-sputters-101612173384473.html
01-02-2021||World||Statement from Myanmar military on state of emergency||Myanmar's army declared a state of emergency on Monday as it carried out detentions of senior government leaders in response to alleged fraud during November's general election.A video address broadcast on military-owned television said power had been handed to the commander-in-chief of the armed forces, Senior General Min Aung Hlaing.Here is the statement read out on Myawaddy Television (MWD):"The voter lists which were used during the multi-party general election which was held on the 8th of November were found to have huge discrepancies and the Union Election Commission failed to settle this matter.Although the sovereignty of the nation must derive from the people, there was terrible fraud in the voter list during the democratic general election which runs contrary to ensuring a stable democracy. A refusal to settle the issue of voter list fraud and a failure to take action and follow a request to postpone lower-house and upper-house parliament sessions is not in accordance with article 417 of the 2018 constitution that refers to 'acts or attempts to take over the sovereignty of the Union by wrongful forcible means' and could lead to a disintegration of national solidarity.Due to such acts, there have been a lot of protests going on in townships and cities in Myanmar to demonstrate their mistrust toward UEC. Other parties and people have also been found conducting different kinds of provocations including displaying flags which are very damaging to national security.Unless this problem is resolved, it will obstruct the path to democracy and it must therefore be resolved according to the law. Therefore, the state of emergency is declared in accordance with article 417 of the 2008 constitution. In order to perform scrutiny of the voter lists and to take action, the authority of the nation’s law making, governance and jurisdiction is handed over to the Commander in Chief in accordance with the 2008 constitution article 418, sub article (a).The state of emergency is effective nationwide and the duration of the state of emergency is set for one year, starting from the date this order is announced in line with article 417 of the 2008 constitution."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/statement-from-myanmar-military-on-state-of-emergency-101612173035380.html
01-02-2021||World||EU calls $15.8 billion Apple tax ruling ‘contradictory’||The European Union is seeking to overturn Apple Inc.’s victory in a 13 billion-euro ($15.8 billion) tax dispute, saying judges used “contradictory reasoning” when they found that the company’s Irish units weren’t liable for huge payments.A summary of the appeal published Monday shows the EU’s determination to challenge the critical July court judgment. The decision was a dramatic setback to Commissioner Margrethe Vestager’s probes of national tax rulings that she says were an illegal subsidy for some large multinational firms.Slapping Apple with a multi-billion order in 2016 was a landmark case for Vestager, showing she had no fear of upsetting the world’s most valuable tech company or the US Treasury. The move helped fuel an EU push to close tax loopholes that allowed some multinational companies to legally pay less tax in Europe.The EU said that the lower court improperly conflated Apple’s lack of employees at two Irish units and the company’s level of responsibility for intellectual property on iPhone and iPad sales across Europe. Judges failed to properly weigh the EU’s analysis of the Irish branches and showed “contradictory reasoning” in a separate part of their findings.Apple declined to immediately comment.At the heart of the legal arguments are simple questions on where value is created and where it should be taxed. Apple argued that all important decisions on Apple products are made at the company’s Cupertino headquarters and that profits should be taxed in the US Apple had delayed returning international profits to the U.S. for years, citing high costs, until changes to the tax code saw it start repatriating foreign earnings in 2018.‘Far-Reaching Consequences’July’s surprise judgment backing that view caused “far-reaching consequences,” Vestager said last year. Apple’s Irish units recorded almost all profits from sales outside the Americas, she said, and treating parent and group companies separately allows businesses to “have their cake and eat it” by reducing tax payments.European governments are increasingly unsympathetic to how companies have been using rules on intellectual property licensing to avoid high tax rates on corporate income. Vestager investigated a slew of technology and branded merchandise firms, from Amazon.com Inc. to Starbucks Corp., that based units in EU countries with favorable tax policies, such as Ireland, Luxembourg and the Netherlands.The EU is now weighing a tax to target revenue, and not profits, generated by digital companies if global efforts to overhaul corporate taxation don’t make progress. Tax is only one part of an EU crackdown against technology companies that face potential regulation to curb their services and bear more responsibility for the content on their platforms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/eu-calls-15-8-billion-apple-tax-ruling-contradictory-101612171290548.html
01-02-2021||World||EU condemns military's seizure of power in Myanmar||The European Commission president and the EU's top diplomat on Monday condemned the military's seizure of power in Myanmar and demanded the immediate release of all those it had detained in raids across the country.The European Union is Myanmar's third-biggest trading partner and has given the country special trade preferences, which could potentially be removed, although such a process would likely not be immediate."I strongly condemn the coup in Myanmar," Commission chief Ursula von der Leyen wrote on Twitter, and called for the "immediate and unconditional release" of all those detained. EU foreign policy chief Josep Borrell released a statement also condemning the coup, saying "democracy must prevail.""The legitimate civilian government must be restored, in line with the country's constitution & the November elections," von der Leyen said, referring to Monday's coup.Neither Borrell nor von der Leyen detailed any possible measures against the military. In 2018, the EU imposed sanctions against Myanmar generals over killings of Rohingya Muslims. The EU also has an arms embargo on the Southeast Asian country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/eu-condemns-military-s-seizure-of-power-in-myanmar-101612169898136.html
01-02-2021||World||Myanmar shuts down all flights in country||Myanmar's government agency in charge of air travel says it has stopped all passenger flights in the country.The US Embassy in Myanmar said on its Facebook page that the road to the international airport in Yangon, the country’s s biggest city, had been closed Monday. On Twitter it said that “reports indicate that all airports in Myanmar are closed.”The US Embassy also issued a “security alert” saying it was aware of the detention of Myanmar’s leader Aung San Suu Kyi as well as the shutdown of some Internet service, including in Yangon.“There is potential for civil and political unrest in Burma, and we will continue to monitor the situation,” it said, using Myanmar's former name.The US State Department earlier issued a statement say it was “alarmed” by Monday's military takeover.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/myanmar-shuts-down-all-flights-in-country-101612170250855.html
01-02-2021||World||China calls for all sides to 'resolve differences' after Myanmar coup||Beijing called Monday for all parties in Myanmar to "resolve their differences" after the military seized power and detained democratically elected leader Aung San Suu Kyi."China is a friendly neighbour of Myanmar and hopes the various parties in Myanmar will appropriately resolve their differences under the constitutional and legal framework to protect political and social stability," foreign ministry spokesman Wang Wenbin said at a press briefing.Wang said China -- which shares a border with Myanmar -- was still "furthering our understanding of the situation."The military has declared a one-year state of emergency in Myanmar, and the coup ends a decade of civilian rule in the country.Myanmar is a vital piece of China's Belt and Road Initiative -- Chinese President Xi Jinping's $1 trillion vision for maritime, rail and road projects across Asia, Africa and Europe -- including a proposed $8.9 billion high-speed rail link from southern Yunnan province to Myanmar's west coast.Xi also visited Myanmar in January last year to mark 70 years of diplomatic relations between the two countries.On the visit, he promised that Beijing would "firmly support the Myanmar government and people in pursuing a development path suited to its own national conditions," according to a foreign ministry readout of the meeting between him and the Myanmar President U Win Myint.Xi also said China was ready to "work together with the Myanmar side in... speeding up the alignment of the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) and Myanmar's development strategies."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-calls-for-all-sides-to-resolve-differences-after-myanmar-coup-101612166113160.html
01-02-2021||World||Merkel to convene crisis talks amid chaotic EU vaccine rollout||Chancellor Angela Merkel will hold crisis talks with pharmaceutical executives, regional German leaders and European Commission officials Monday in a bid to speed up the continent’s stuttering vaccination push.The video call this afternoon in Berlin comes after Ursula von der Leyen, the commission president, announced that AstraZeneca Plc will deliver 9 million additional vaccine doses to the European Union in the first quarter. The EU has been locked in a bitter dispute with the drugmaker since AstraZeneca said it was reducing the number of shots delivered to the bloc due to production issues.Von der Leyen said late Sunday on Twitter that the Anglo-Swedish drugmaker would start deliveries one week earlier than scheduled and expand manufacturing. The extra doses would bring the total to 40 million, only about half of what the EU had expected from Astra through March.Separately, Pfizer Inc. and BioNTech SE said Monday they will, as previously flagged, produce another 75 million doses of their vaccine for the EU in the second quarter. The two companies are “back to the original schedule of vaccine dose deliveries” to the EU after modifications to a facility in Puurs, Belgium, BioNTech said.“We are now in discussions with additional qualified partners on potential new agreements” to further boost the capacity of our European manufacturing network, BioNTech Chief Financial Officer Sierk Poetting said in an emailed statement.AstraZeneca triggered a crisis Jan. 22 when it said that problems at a plant in Belgium meant deliveries to the EU this quarter would be significantly curtailed. As a result, the bloc, which came under fire due to the slow rollout of national vaccination programs, said it would begin restricting the export of vaccines if drugmakers fail to meet delivery targets.The episode has devolved into a bruising blame game that has pitted the 27-nation EU against the heft of the pharmaceutical industry, and has prompted fears that a wave of vaccine nationalism could hinder efforts to fight the pandemic. The bloc’s faltering vaccination program and its effort to rectify early mistakes have drawn criticism from many sides, including from companies such as AstraZeneca that it needs to combat the Covid crisis.Export curbs could disrupt vaccine supply chains as billions wait to be inoculated before the spread of mutations renders the virus less vulnerable to the available shots.“We want 70% of the grownup population to be vaccinated by the end of the summer,” von der Leyen said in an interview Sunday with German broadcaster ZDF. She added that supplies should increase significantly in the second quarter when Johnson & Johnson and other pharmaceutical companies overcome early hurdles. A spokesman for Astra declined to comment on the additional deliveries.Astra Chief Executive Officer Pascal Soriot said last week the company was trying to source more supplies from around the world to increase deliveries to the EU, adding that “we are working 24/7 to increase this capacity.”So far, the EU’s 27 governments have administered just 2.8 doses of vaccine per 100 people, far behind the 14.2 doses in the U.K. and 9.7 in the U.S. The delays could derail Europe’s plans to exit recession-inducing lockdowns, amid a widening backlash against governments over prolonged stay-at-home orders.The EU’s drug regulator cleared the Covid-19 vaccine from AstraZeneca and the University of Oxford on Friday. It’ll be the third vaccine available in the EU after shots from Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna Inc., potentially easing a shortage of shots as the EU trails the U.K. and the U.S. in vaccinations.In the ZDF interview, Von der Leyen said she spoke to British Prime Minister Boris Johnson, who said that both Astra production plants would deliver to Europe. “Our enemy is the virus and the pharmaceutical industry is part of the solution,” she said.Better PreparedVon der Leyen on Sunday held a video call with chief executives of pharmaceutical companies including AstraZeneca and Moderna to discuss how vaccines could be more rapidly deployed, manufactured and approved in the future.“The pandemic highlighted that manufacturing capacities are a limiting factor. It is essential to address these challenges,” the commission said in a statement after the call. It added that “the emergence of variants of concern raises the imminent threat of reduced efficacy of recently approved vaccines.”Sunday’s discussion focused on the EU’s longer term health strategy and preparedness. Inspired by early stumbles in curbing the spread of the coronavirus last year, the push for a common approach aims to guard against a patchwork of national responses to any future health scares.Also included in the meeting were executives from BioNTech, Pfizer, Johnson & Johnson, CureVac NV and Sanofi, according to the statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/merkel-to-convene-crisis-talks-amid-chaotic-eu-vaccine-rollout-101612165306676.html
01-02-2021||World||Myanmar army pledges new elections, power transfer following coup||Myanmar's army on Monday said it will hold fresh elections and hand power to the winning party once a year-long state of emergency has elapsed, hours after carrying out a coup."We will perform real multi-party democracy... with complete balance and fairness," a statement on the army's official Facebook page said.It added that power will be transferred after "holding a free and fair general election and the emergency provisions period is complete."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/myanmar-army-pledges-new-elections-power-transfer-following-coup-101612164107561.html
01-02-2021||World||Covid: Flyers to Canada to be tested, will have to pay for quarantine||With the death toll from the Covid-19 pandemic crossing 20,000, Canada is putting harder restrictions on air travellers entering the country.Besides a negative Covid test prior to boarding the flight, as mandated in January, incoming passengers will have to also get tested again after landing at a Canadian airport. They will have to be lodged in an institutional facility till the time the results are available. Authorities estimate that could be about three days, and passengers will have to pay for that period of lodging and boarding, and that bill could cross CA$ 2000 (over 100,000 rupees).That financial disincentive is among the measures the Canadian government has instituted to keep Canadians from flying abroad and then return to the country. “With the challenges we currently face with Covid-19, both here at home and abroad, we all agree that now is just not the time to be flying,” Prime Minister Justin Trudeau recently told the media.The post-arrival testing is likely to commence as early as this Thursday. “As soon as possible in the coming weeks, all air travellers arriving in Canada, with very limited exceptions, must reserve a room in a government of Canada-approved hotel for three nights at their own cost, and take a Covid-19 molecular test on arrival at their own cost,” transport Canada said in a statement.As of Sunday night, it has also suspended all flights to and from Mexico and Caribbean countries until April 30. International flights will now only be allowed to land at four airports in the country – Toronto, Vancouver, Montreal and Calgary.Public health authorities are also hiring security companies to provide screening officers who will visit returning travellers to ensure they comply with the mandatory 14-day self-isolation period following arrival.Canada was, at one point, considering a ban on international flights, but that move is not being made at this time.Such stringent action comes as the country remains in the grip of a second wave this winter, even as the government struggles with procuring sufficient number of vaccinations. Total deaths from the coronavirus crisis has reached 20,032 with 778,976 confirmed cases recorded._||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covidflyers-to-canada-to-be-tested-will-have-to-pay-for-quarantine-101612162287823.html
01-02-2021||World||AstraZeneca boosts dose deliveries amid chaotic EU rollout||AstraZeneca Plc will deliver 9 million additional vaccine doses to the European Union in the first quarter of this year as the bloc tries to get its chaotic inoculation drive on track.European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen announced on Twitter Sunday that the Anglo-Swedish drugmaker would start deliveries one week earlier than scheduled and expand its manufacturing. In fact, the company said last week that it would provide a million shy of that amount. Either way, that brings the total to 40 million, only about half of what the EU had expected from Astra through March.AstraZeneca triggered a crisis January 22 when it said that problems at a plant in Belgium meant deliveries to the EU this quarter would be significantly curtailed. As a result, the bloc, which came under fire due to the slow rollout of national vaccination programs, said it would begin restricting the export of vaccines if drugmakers fail to meet delivery targets.The episode has devolved into a bruising blame game that has pitted the 27-nation EU against the heft of the pharmaceutical industry, and has triggered fears that a wave of vaccine nationalism could hinder efforts to fight the pandemic. The bloc’s faltering vaccination program and its effort to rectify early mistakes have drawn criticism from many sides, including from companies such as AstraZeneca that it needs to combat the Covid crisis.“We want 70% of the grownup population to be vaccinated by the end of the summer,” von der Leyen said in an interview Sunday with German broadcaster ZDF. She added that supplies should increase significantly in the second quarter when Johnson & Johnson and other pharmaceutical companies overcome early hurdles.A spokesman for Astra declined to comment on the additional deliveries.Astra Chief Executive Officer Pascal Soriot said on January 29 that the company was trying to source more supplies from around the world to increase deliveries to the EU, adding that “we are working 24/7 to increase this capacity.”So far, the EU’s 27 governments have administered just 2.6 doses of vaccine per 100 people, far behind the 12.5 doses in the UK and 8.8 in the US. The slow rollout has put the EU on the defensive and cast serious doubt over the bloc’s ability to meet its ambitious inoculation targets.German authorities are also under pressure to kick-start a vaccine program that was off to a slow start and faces supply shortages. In an effort to speed things up, Chancellor Angela Merkel on Monday will meet with regional leaders and representatives from pharmaceutical companies, as well as the EU.The EU’s drug regulator cleared the Covid-19 vaccine from AstraZeneca and the University of Oxford on Friday. It’ll be the third vaccine available in the EU after shots from Pfizer Inc. and Moderna Inc., potentially easing a shortage of shots as the EU trails the UK and the US in vaccinations.In the ZDF interview, Von der Leyen also said she spoke to British Prime Minister Boris Johnson, who said that both Astra production plants would deliver to Europe. “Our enemy is the virus and the pharmaceutical industry is part of the solution,” she said.Better PreparedNews of the extra doses came shortly after the EU said it’s taking steps to bolster its pandemic preparedness, citing the risk posed by Covid variants that reduce the efficacy of vaccines.Von der Leyen on Sunday held a video call with chief executives of pharmaceutical companies including AstraZeneca and Moderna to discuss how vaccines could be more rapidly deployed, manufactured and approved in the future.“The pandemic highlighted that manufacturing capacities are a limiting factor. It is essential to address these challenges,” the commission said in a statement after the call. It added that “the emergence of variants of concern raises the imminent threat of reduced efficacy of recently approved vaccines.”Sunday’s discussion between von der Leyen and the pharmaceutical executives focused on the EU’s longer term health strategy and preparedness. Inspired by early stumbles in curbing the spread of the coronavirus last year, the push for a common approach aims to guard against a patchwork of national responses to any future health scares.The discussion follows proposals by the commission last November to beef up the EU’s health agencies, after the pandemic overwhelmed the continent’s hospitals and left countries struggling with supply shortages. The plans included giving more clout to the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control and the European Medicines Agency.Also included in the meeting were executives from BioNTech SE, Pfizer, Johnson & Johnson, CureVac NV and Sanofi, according to the statement. BioNTech and Pfizer said they will, as previously flagged, produce another 75 million doses of their vaccine for the EU in the second quarter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/astrazeneca-boosts-dose-deliveries-amid-chaotic-eu-rollout-101612156221745.html
01-02-2021||World||Donald Trump’s post-election fundraising faltered in last weeks of 2020||Former President Donald Trump’s torrid post-election fundraising cooled off in the final weeks of the year as his false claims of widespread election fraud suffered setbacks in courts around the country.Trump and the Republican National Committee raised $81 million over the last 38 days of 2020, far less than the $207.5 million received in the 19 days following the November 3 election, according to reports they filed Sunday with the Federal Election Commission.Despite the setback, Trump’s political operation will have plenty of money heading into the New Year, with fewer limits on how it can be spent. Save America, a leadership PAC Trump launched a week after the election, took in $30.9 million between November 24 and the end of the year. It had $31.2 million cash on hand, money he can spend on a variety of activities, including travel, advocating policy and fundraising.Most of Save America’s funds, some $30.4 million, was transferred from another committee, Trump Make America Great Again, which is supported by small-dollar donors and splits the money between his leadership PAC and the RNC.Trump's Make America Great Again raised $62.5 million from November 24 through the end of the year, its FEC report shows, including $35.2 million from grassroots donors who gave less than $200. It ended the year with $59.9 million in the bank. In addition to Save America, Trump Make America Great Again transferred $25.5 million to Trump’s campaign and $22.5 million to the RNC.Since the riot earlier this month, Trump has been barred from social media platforms including Twitter Inc. and Facebook Inc. He had used Twitter as his primary means of communicating with his supporters. He spent lavishly on Facebook ads to raise money for his campaign and committees. Stripe Inc., the payment processing company, stopped handling donations made directly to Trump’s committees after the riot.Trump can use Save America money for more things than he could campaign funds, which under federal law cannot be converted to personal use. In 2020, Save America spent just $343,078, all to an affiliate of WinRed, the GOP’s online donation platform.Trump’s campaign ended the year with $10.7 million cash on hand but debts of $2.7 million. It took in $27 million and spent $34.7 million, including contribution refunds to individuals totaling $11.3 million. It spent $1.1 million on legal consulting and expenses, with the biggest payment, $1 million, going to Kasowitz, Benson, Torres LLP. The firm represented Trump in Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 election.Trump Victory, which raises money from large dollar donors, took in just $261,250 over the filing period. The RNC took in $45.3 million, including the transfers from Trump Make America Great Again, and ended the year with $80.5 million cash on hand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-s-post-election-fundraising-faltered-in-last-weeks-of-2020-101612154222759.html
01-02-2021||World||Joe Biden to meet GOP senators to discuss compromise stimulus plan||President Joe Biden will meet Monday with a group of 10 Republican senators to to discuss their alternative proposal for Covid-19 economic relief, the lawmakers said in accepting his invitation.The GOP lawmakers offered their $600 billion proposal early Sunday in a letter to Biden, responding to the $1.9 trillion plan he laid out more than two weeks ago and which Republicans have rejected.Biden spoke Sunday with Maine Senator Susan Collins, one of the letter’s authors, to invite the group to a White House meeting “for a full exchange of views,” White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki said later in the day. The lawmakers announced Sunday night that they would take Biden up on his invitation.“We appreciate the President’s quick response to our letter, and we are pleased to accept his invitation to the White House tomorrow afternoon to discuss the path forward,” the senators said in a joint statement.The Republicans’ offer is an opportunity for both sides to begin negotiations on a bipartisan deal, something Biden has hoped for since before taking office. At the same time, the GOP plan is far short of what the president wants, and Democrats could pursue the rest of the Biden proposal using a partisan budget tool.Psaki hinted that the size of the Republicans’ proposal was far too small for Biden. “With the virus posing a grave threat to the country, and economic conditions grim for so many, the need for action is urgent, and the scale of what must be done is large,” she said.The senators said they plan to unveil their plan on Monday, but offered some details, including a proposal for direct stimulus checks of up to $1,000, on Sunday talk shows. The group includes senators considered centrist, like Lisa Murkowski of Alaska, but more conservative Republicans as well.‘Unity’ Spirit“In the spirit of bipartisanship and unity, we have developed a Covid-19 relief framework that builds on prior Covid assistance laws, all of which passed with bipartisan support,” the senators wrote in the letter dated Sunday.Having 10 Republicans on board is significant because that’s the number to reach 60 votes in the Senate to pass bills under normal procedures, assuming the chamber’s 50 Democrats would be on board.Biden is “absolutely willing to negotiate,” Jared Bernstein, a member of Biden’s Council of Economic Advisers, said on “Fox News Sunday.”“Glad to hear from this letter that they’re on board, but we need to learn a lot more about it. Right now, we are in a position where delay and inaction are the enemy of moving forward,” Bernstein said.Senator Bill Cassidy of Louisiana, one of the 10 Republicans who signed the letter, said on “Fox News Sunday” that the proposal comes to “about $600 billion” and is “very targeted.”A Republican aide earlier pegged the cost at between $500 billion to $600 billion range. An official score hasn’t yet been completed.Targeted ChecksThe group said in their letter that they’re in favor of $160 billion for virus control measure and for some form of more targeted direct stimulus checks.Cassidy suggested the stimulus payments would be as high as $1,000, adding that “there’s been very good analysis that above a certain income level, that money’s not spent.”Biden has proposed $1,400 checks, topping up $600 payments made as part of a December stimulus package.Despite the overture from the Republicans, House Budget Chair John Yarmuth said Sunday he plans to move forward on Monday with introducing a fiscal 2021 budget resolution, the first step toward producing a reconciliation bill embodying the Biden stimulus.The budget is to be voted on by the House later this week and will contain instructions to other committees to assemble the stimulus bill.Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer is threatening as soon as Tuesday to move the Senate toward the reconciliation, which would allow 50 Democrats to pass some parts of the Biden plan without any Republican cooperation.Schumer on Sunday told the New York Daily News that Republicans talk to him and other Democratic lawmakers. “They should negotiate with us, not make a take-it-or-leave-it offer,” Schumer said -- although the plan the GOP senators announced was not described as “take it or leave it.”Reconciliation DebateRepublicans used budget reconciliation to pass tax reform and in an attempt to repeal the Affordable Care Act during the Trump administration.There are limits on what can be done in reconciliation, though, and spending on health care and education, and state and local aid may be excluded.The GOP aide, who asked not to be identified, said that if Biden took up the Republicans’ proposal he could attempt some of more contentious elements of his plan later via reconciliation.Senator Rob Portman of Ohio, another of the Republicans who signed onto the compromise proposal, said Sunday that reverting to reconciliation would create more partisanship in Washington.“If you can’t find bipartisanship on Covid-19, I don’t know where you can find it,” Portman said on CNN’s “State of the Union.”The Republican plan would have “all of the health care funding that President Biden has in his proposal,” Portman said, without offering details. Cassidy said the proposal would match Biden’s suggested funding for coronavirus vaccine distribution.Republicans have raised objections to Biden‘s attempt to use the package to raise the national minimum wage to $15 per hour as well as proposals to expand child tax credits and provide aid to state and local governments.Other senators signing Sunday’s letter were Todd Young of Indiana, Mike Rounds of South Dakota, Mitt Romney of Utah, Shelley Moore Capito of West Virginia, Jerry Moran of Kansas and Thom Tillis of North Carolina.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-to-meet-gop-senators-to-discuss-compromise-stimulus-plan-101612154013684.html
01-02-2021||World||As Google eyes Australia exit, Microsoft talks Bing with PM Scott Morrison||Software giant Microsoft Corp is confident its search product Bing can fill the gap in Australia if Google pulls its search over required payments to media outlets, Prime Minister Scott Morrison said on Monday.Australia has introduced laws that would force internet giant Google and social media heavyweight Facebook Inc to negotiate payments to domestic media outlets whose content links drive traffic to their platforms.However, the Big Tech firms have called the laws unworkable and said last month they would withdraw key services from Australia if the regulations went ahead. Those services include Google's search engine, which has 94% of the country's search market, according to industry data.Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella has since spoken with Morrison about the new rules, the tech company told Reuters, and on Monday, Morrison said the software company was ready to grow the presence of its search tool Bing, the distant No. 2 player."I can tell you, Microsoft's pretty confident, when I spoke to Satya," Morrison told reporters in Canberra, without giving further detail of the conversation."We just want the rules in the digital world to be the same that exist in the real world, in the physical world," Morrison added.A Microsoft spokeswoman confirmed the discussion took place but declined to comment, because since the company was not directly involved in the laws."We recognise the importance of a vibrant media sector and public interest journalism in a democracy and we recognise the challenges the media sector has faced over many years through changing business models and consumer preferences," the spokeswoman said.A Google representative was not immediately available for comment.A day earlier, Australian treasurer Josh Frydenberg said Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg had requested a meeting over the law, and that they had talked, but that he would not back down on the change.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/as-google-eyes-australia-exit-microsoft-talks-bing-with-pm-scott-morrison-101612153729976.html
01-02-2021||World||UN head 'strongly condemns' military detention of Myanmar leaders||UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres has "strongly" condemned the military detention of Myanmar's leaders in a coup, including de facto leader Aung San Suu Kyi."The Secretary-General strongly condemns the detention of State Counsellor Daw Aung San Suu Kyi, President U Win Myint and other political leaders on the eve of the opening session of Myanmar's new parliament," spokesman Stephane Dujarric said in a statement."These developments represent a serious blow to democratic reforms in Myanmar."The spokesman said November's elections had provided Suu Kyi's National League for Democracy with a strong mandate, "reflecting the clear will of the people of Myanmar to continue on the hard-won path of democratic reform".The statement called on the military to "respect the will of the people" and "adhere to democratic norms, with any differences to be resolved through peaceful dialogue"."All leaders must act in the greater interest of Myanmar's democratic reform, engaging in meaningful dialogue, refraining from violence and fully respecting human rights and fundamental freedom," the statement said.The UN Security Council had planned to hold a meeting Thursday on Myanmar with the UN's special envoy to the country, Christine Schraner Burgener, according to diplomats.The session could now be advanced to early in the week due to Monday's developments, a diplomat told AFP on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/un-head-strongly-condemns-military-detention-of-myanmar-leaders-101612153635194.html
01-02-2021||World||Time to team up and tackle Long Covid, says WHO expert||It is time to start solving the mystery of Long Covid, an aspect of the pandemic blighting millions of lives, the World Health Organization's leader on post-Covid conditions told AFP.Little is known about why some people, after coming through the acute phase of Covid-19, struggle to recover and suffer ongoing symptoms including tiredness, brain fog, cardiac and neurological disorders.At this stage of the pandemic, the world is fixated on vaccine roll-out and new, more contagious variants of the coronavirus.However, Long Covid deserves similar urgent attention, said Janet Diaz, the clinical care lead in the WHO's emergencies programme, ahead of a push for a globally-unified approach to the problem."We still don't fully understand what Long Covid is," Diaz told AFP in an interview outside the WHO's headquarters in Geneva."There's quite a bit to learn, but I am confident that the scientific community is really rallying around."Tellingly, Long Covid does not yet have a proper name.The WHO currently calls it post-Covid condition, while other terms in circulation include post-acute Covid syndrome and Covid long haulers.- Building up a picture -The WHO is hosting a first global seminar on Long Covid on February 9. It will bring scientists, experts and clinicians together to define the condition, give it a formal name and harmonise study methods."It's a condition that needs further description, further understanding of how many are affected and further understanding of what is causing it, so we can better prevent, manage and treat it," said Diaz, 48, a US respiratory physician and intensive care doctor.She said British and other studies suggested potentially one in 10 cases may have prolonged symptoms one month after infection, but there was no picture yet of how long those conditions might persist.The elderly and those with underlying conditions are most at risk of serious disease from Covid-19.But the profile of Long Covid patients does not match. It affects people with varying degrees of severity of disease and "seems to potentially also include younger people", including children, said Diaz.While the pandemic response priority remains preventing people from catching the virus and falling ill, treating coronavirus cases "must also now include care after the acute illness... until you get back to full health", Diaz said.- Cracking the code -Diaz said fatigue seemed to be the most common symptom, with others including post-exertional malaise, cognitive dysfunction or brain fog, shortness of breath, heart palpitations and neurological problems."How these are all related -- that's what we don't understand. Why would one person get this, and the other person get that?" asked Diaz, saying researchers needed to crack the underlying mechanisms of the disease that were causing these persistent symptoms."Is it something due to the virus? Due to the immune response? If we had a better idea, we could start to target some interventions to reduce symptoms."Diaz said a "tremendous amount" of research was underway, largely classic observational studies following discharged patients.The first Covid-19 cases were discovered in China in December 2019. But it was only when Long Covid started appearing on the radar months later that mystified sufferers began reaching out and joining the dots themselves."That's been a tremendous movement," said Diaz, who took on the Long Covid remit in October.In the first wave of the pandemic, struggling health care systems got patients through the acute illness, "but then didn't realise they weren't recovering to their previous health".She said the patient-led research had driven scientists to do further studies, and "collaboratively we should get to an answer quicker".- 'Stay hopeful' -The February 9 seminar, at which scientists will present their latest findings, will be the first in a regular series."Right now, we probably have enough descriptive data to start to bring it all together," said Diaz.Besides agreeing a definition and a name, the meeting will launch a standardised data collection methods for monitoring patients, and start opening doors towards clinical prevention and management."We quickly have to build our understanding from each other's experiences," Diaz said.Crucially, donors will be taking part, and are "really aware" of the pressing need for Long Covid funding, she added.In a message to the potential millions still suffering long after they are officially considered recovered, Diaz said: "Stay hopeful"."People may have prolonged symptoms, but we do know people are recovering. It may take a long time, but they are still recovering to previous health. We're with you."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/time-to-team-up-and-tackle-long-covid-says-who-expert-101612152145112.html
01-02-2021||World||Myanmar military takes power for one year, Aung San Suu Kyi in detention||Myanmar’s military has taken power for a year after declaring a state of emergency in response to its claims of election fraud, reports said, after Aung San Suu Kyi and other top leaders were detained in an early-morning raid.Suu Kyi, President Win Myint and other leaders were detained by Myanmar’s army, Myo Nyunt, a spokesman for the ruling National League for Democracy, said by phone. TV channels, phone and internet communications were all spotty, making it difficult to get information from the country. The military has yet to release a statement.The US and Australia urged Myanmar’s military to release all those detained and to respect the results of the election. “The United States opposes any attempt to alter the outcome of recent elections or impede Myanmar’s democratic transition, and will take action against those responsible if these steps are not reversed,” White House spokeswoman Jen Psaki said in a statement.Ever since Suu Kyi’s party won a landslide victory in the second general election after decades of army rule, the military and its political factions have demanded authorities investigate its allegations of mass voting fraud. Myanmar’s election commission last week had labeled the vote transparent and fair, and the U.S., United Nations and the European Union urged the military to respect the results.Top military leaders had hinted at seizing power, even while saying they pledged to work in accordance with the law. In a statement on Sunday, Myanmar’s military -- known as the Tatmadaw -- denied objecting to the outcome of the election and said it “finds the process of the 2020 election unacceptable.” The constitution allows the military to take power during a state of emergency that could cause disintegration of the union or “national solidarity.”“It’s a really cynical take on their justification to power, but I would anticipate that they will say this is in line with the military’s duty and obligation to uphold the Constitution as we wrote it,” said Hunter Marston, a Canberra-based political analyst who has written about Myanmar for several publications. “We could see pretty widespread protests in major cities and even around the country in smaller towns, especially in Yangon.”Myanmar’s military had retained wide powers under the constitution even after a shift to democracy a decade ago, which prompted the U.S. and European Union to lift sanctions on the Southeast Asian country. But initial optimism that sparked a wave of interest from foreign investors quickly dissipated due to a violent crackdown against Muslim Rohingyas that prompted accusations of “genocide” against Suu Kyi’s government.The military’s action will present an early foreign-policy test for U.S. President Joe Biden. The US has become increasingly critical of Myanmar in the past few years under US President Donald Trump’s administration, imposing targeting visa restrictions and financial sanctions in 2017. A National Security Council spokesperson didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment.Biden Test“It’s very clear the Biden administration represents a start break from the previous government on human rights,” said Graeme Smith, a fellow at the Australian National University’s Department of Pacific Affairs. “Whatever government is in power -- Aung San Suu Kyi or the military -- they will face more pressure on human rights than Trump, who probably wouldn’t have cared either way.”China is Myanmar’s largest trading partner, accounting for about a third of total commerce in 2019 -- about 10 times more than the U.S. The treatment of the Rohingyas has tainted the international image of Suu Kyi, who had won the Nobel Peace Prize while under house arrest during a military regime that effectively cut Myanmar off from the world.In November’s election, Suu Kyi’s NLD won 396 seats in the national assembly, more than the 322 needed to form a government. Turnout was an estimated 70% of the nation’s 37.3 million people eligible to vote. The ruling party has also won 524 seats in elections held to state and regional parliaments, official data showed.The Yangon Stock Exchange only has six listed companies. Foreigners own 261 million kyat ($200,000) of stocks as of Oct. 8, with First Myanmar Investment Co. and Myanmar Thilawa SEZ Holdings making up bulk of the holdings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/myanmar-military-takes-power-for-one-year-aung-san-suu-kyi-in-detention-101612147875837.html
01-02-2021||World||US urges Myanmar's military to release those detained, respect election results||The United States has expressed shock over developments in Myanmar where Aung San Suu Kyi and other senior figures from the ruling party have been detained and said President Joe Biden has been briefed in this regard the National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan."The US is alarmed by reports that Burmese military has taken steps to undermine country’s democratic transition, including arrest of State Counselor Aung San Suu Kyi and other civilian officials in Burma. President Biden has been briefed by NSA," White House spokesperson Jen Psaki said in a statement.The US urged Myanmar’s military to release all those detained and to respect the results of the election.“The United States opposes any attempt to alter the outcome of recent elections or impede Myanmar’s democratic transition, and will take action against those responsible if these steps are not reversed,” Psaki said.Myanmar’s military has taken power for a year after declaring a state of emergency in response to its claims of election fraud, reports said.The move came after days of escalating tension between the government and the military that stirred fears of a coup in the aftermath of an election.Ever since Suu Kyi’s party won a landslide victory in the second general election after decades of army rule, the military and its political factions have demanded authorities investigate its allegations of mass voting fraud.Myanmar’s election commission last week had labeled the vote transparent and fair, and the US, United Nations and the European Union urged the military to respect the results.Top military leaders had hinted at seizing power, even while saying they pledged to work in accordance with the law. In a statement on Sunday, Myanmar’s military -- known as the Tatmadaw -- denied objecting to the outcome of the election and said it “finds the process of the 2020 election unacceptable.” The constitution allows the military to take power during a state of emergency that could cause disintegration of the union or “national solidarity.”Myanmar’s military had retained wide powers under the constitution even after a shift to democracy a decade ago, which prompted the U.S. and European Union to lift sanctions on the Southeast Asian country.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-urges-myanmar-s-military-to-release-those-detained-respect-election-results-101612146186131.html
01-02-2021||World||Myanmar military says it is taking control of the country||Myanmar military television says the military has taken control of the country for one year.An announcer on military-owned Myawaddy TV made the announcement Monday morning.State Counsellor Aung San Suu Kyi was detained under house arrest, reports said, as communications were cut to the capital.Phone and internet access to Naypyitaw was lost and Suu Kyi's National League for Democracy party could not be reached.The U.S., Australia and others were concerned by the reports and urged Myanmar's military to respect the rule of law.“The United States is alarmed by reports that the Burmese military has taken steps to undermine the country's democratic transition, including the arrest of State Counselor Aung San Suu Kyi and other civilian officials in Burma,” White House spokesperson Jen Psaki said in a statement from Washington. She said President Joe Biden had been briefed on the reported developments.“The United States opposes any attempt to alter the outcome of recent elections or impede Myanmar's democratic transition, and will take action against those responsible if these steps are not reversed,” the statement said. Burma is the former name of Myanmar.Australian Foreign Minister Marise Payne called for the release of Suu Kyi and others reported to be detained. “We strongly support the peaceful reconvening of the National Assembly, consistent with the results of the November 2020 general election,” she said.Myanmar lawmakers were to gather Monday in the capital Naypyitaw for the first session of Parliament since last year's election.Online news portal Myanmar Now cited unidentified sources about the arrest of Suu Kyi and the NLD's chairperson around dawn and did not have further details. Myanmar Visual Television and Myanmar Voice Radio posted on Facebook around 6:30 a.m. that their programs were not available to broadcast regularly.The 75-year-old Suu Kyi is by far the country's most dominant politician, and became the country's leader after leading a decades-long nonviolent struggle against military rule.Suu Kyi's party captured 396 out of 476 seats in the combined lower and upper houses of Parliament in the November polls, but the military holds 25% of the total seats under the 2008 military-drafted constitution and several key ministerial positions are also reserved for military appointees.The military, known as the Tatmadaw, charged that there was massive voting fraud in the election, though it has failed to provide proof. The state Union Election Commission last week rejected its allegations.Amid the bickering over the allegations, the military last Tuesday ramped up political tension when a spokesman at its weekly news conference, responding to a reporter's question, declined to rule out the possibility of a coup. Maj. Gen. Zaw Min Tun elaborated by saying the military would “follow the laws in accordance with the constitution.”Using similar language, Commander-in-Chief Senior Gen. Min Aung Hlaing told senior officers in a speech Wednesday that the constitution could be revoked if the laws were not being properly enforced. Adding to the concern was the unusual deployment of armored vehicles in the streets of several large cities.On Saturday, however, the military denied it had threatened a coup, accusing unnamed organizations and media of misrepresenting its position and taking the general's words out of context.On Sunday, it reiterated its denial, this time blaming unspecified foreign embassies of misinterpreting the military's position and calling on them “not to make unwarranted assumptions about the situation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/myanmar-military-says-it-is-taking-control-of-the-country-101612147260787.html
01-02-2021||World||UK opens citizenship path for Hong Kongers||A new visa scheme offering millions of Hong Kongers a pathway to British citizenship went live on Sunday as the city’s former colonial master opened its doors to those wanting to escape China’s crackdown on dissent.Anyone with a British National (Overseas) passport and their dependents can now apply online for a visa allowing them to live and work in the UK. After five years, they can apply for citizenship.The immigration scheme is a response to Beijing’s decision last year to impose a national security law on Hong Kong to snuff out the huge and often violent democracy protests.US: Impose cost on ChinaThe US must be prepared to “impose cost” on China for its threats toward Taiwan, as well for its actions in Hong Kong and Xinjiang, US National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan said.In an online discussion with his predecessor Robert O’Brien, Sullivan termed China the top foreign policy challenge for the White House.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-opens-citizenship-path-for-hong-kongers-101612144159557.html
01-02-2021||World||WHO experts visit wet market in Wuhan; lockdown in Perth||A team of World Health Organization (WHO) experts investigating the origins of Covid-19 on Sunday went to a market in Wuhan where one of the first reported clusters of infections emerged over a year ago, with one member tweeting the visit was “critical” to understanding the virus.Members of the group arrived at Huanan seafood market - which has been sealed since January last year - driving into its barricaded premises as guards quickly blocked others from entering, according to AFP journalists at the scene.The mission, delayed by China and weighed down by political baggage, has a remit to explore how the virus jumped from animal to human.But with the fieldwork element of the trip in its early stages, WHO officials have already played down expectations of finding the source of a virus which has killed over two million people and devastated the global economy.On Sunday, the WHO team visited Huanan market and another wholesale one, as part of a long-planned trip closely monitored by the Chinese authorities.Team member Peter Daszak described the tours on Twitter as “very important site visits”, adding that the team had “met with key staff at both markets and asked questions to help better understand the factors involved in the emergence of Covid”.Also read: WHO team in Wuhan to visit provincial CDC on MondayDespite the fact that over a year has elapsed since the outbreak there, Daszak said speaking to staff and seeing the layout of the Huanan market was “very informative”.The visits were “critical for our joint teams to understand the epidemiology of Covid as it started to spread at the end of 2019”, he said in another tweet.Lawmaker tests +ve even after 2nd vaccine shotIn a disturbing development in the fight against the coronavirus, US Representative Stephen Lynch has tested positive for Covid-19 even after receiving his second dose of the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine - at least the second lawmaker to contract the virus after getting both shots.The Massachusetts Democrat “received a positive test result for Covid-19 after a staff member in the Congressman’s Boston office had tested positive earlier in the week”, his spokeswoman, Molly Rose Tarpey, said in a statement Friday.Meanwhile in Australia, the city of Perth was set to begin a five-day hard lockdown after a security guard at a quarantine hotel tested positive for Covid-19, authorities said on Sunday.Around two million residents must stay at home as of Sunday evening, as will those living in the nearby Peel and South West regions. A return of schools on Monday will be delayed, with locals permitted to leave their homes for exercise, medical care and essential work.The new rules follow the first case of community transmission in Western Australia state for 10 months, officials said.Authorities believe the man contracted the virus from a returning traveller quarantining in a hotel in the city. The traveller is thought to have picked up a UK variant of the virus believed to be more infectious than Covid-19 strains previously detected in Australia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/who-experts-visit-wet-market-in-wuhan-lockdown-in-perth-101612143571370.html
01-02-2021||World||WHO team in Wuhan to visit provincial CDC on Monday||A World Health Organization-led team investigating the origins of the Covid-19 pandemic was due on Monday to visit the Center for Disease Control and Prevention of Hubei province, the central Chinese region where the outbreak emerged in late 2019.The group of independent experts left two weeks of quarantine on Thursday in Wuhan, the capital of Hubei province, and is conducting two weeks of field work. So far, it has included visits to hospitals, markets, and an exhibition commemorating Wuhan's battle with the outbreak.The WHO, which has sought to manage expectations for the mission, has said that team members would be limited to visits organised by their Chinese hosts and would not have any contact with community members, because of health restrictions.No full itinerary for the group's field work has been announced, and journalists covering the tightly controlled visit have been kept at a distance from team members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/who-team-in-wuhan-to-visit-provincial-cdc-on-monday-101612142316068.html
01-02-2021||World||Over 5,000 arrested at pro-Navalny protests across Russia||Chanting slogans against President Vladimir Putin, tens of thousands took to the streets Sunday across Russia to demand the release of jailed opposition leader Alexei Navalny, keeping up nationwide protests that have rattled the Kremlin. More than 5,000 people were detained by police, according to a monitoring group, and some were beaten.The massive protests came despite efforts by Russian authorities to stem the tide of demonstrations after tens of thousands rallied across the country last weekend in the largest, most widespread show of discontent that Russia had seen in years. Despite threats of jail terms, warnings to social media groups and tight police cordons, the protests again engulfed cities across Russia's 11 time zones on Sunday.Navalny's team quickly called another protest in Moscow for Tuesday, when he is set to face a court hearing that could send him to prison for years.The 44-year-old Navalny, an anti-corruption investigator who is Putin's best-known critic, was arrested on Jan. 17 upon returning from Germany, where he spent five months recovering from nerve-agent poisoning that he blames on the Kremlin. Russian authorities have rejected the accusations. He was arrested for allegedly violating his parole conditions by not reporting for meetings with law enforcement when he was recuperating in Germany.The United States urged Russia to release Navalny and criticized the crackdown on protests.“The U.S. condemns the persistent use of harsh tactics against peaceful protesters and journalists by Russian authorities for a second week straight,” U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken said on Twitter.The Russian Foreign Ministry rejected Blinken's call as “crude interference in Russia's internal affairs" and accused Washington of trying to destabilize the situation in the country by backing the protests.On Sunday, police detained more than 5,000 people in cities nationwide, according to OVD-Info, a group that monitors political arrests, surpassing some 4,000 detentions at the demonstrations across Russia on Jan. 23.In Moscow, authorities introduced unprecedented security measures in the city center, closing subway stations near the Kremlin, cutting bus traffic and ordering restaurants and stores to stay closed.Navalny's team initially called for Sunday's protest to be held on Moscow's Lubyanka Square, home to the main headquarters of the Federal Security Service, which Navalny contends was responsible for his poisoning. Facing police cordons around the square, the protest shifted to other central squares and streets.Police were randomly picking up people and putting them into police buses, but thousands of protesters marched across the city center for hours, chanting “Putin, resign!” and “Putin, thief!" — a reference to an opulent Black Sea estate reportedly built for the Russian leader that was featured in a widely popular video released by Navalny's team.“I'm not afraid, because we are the majority," said protester Leonid Martynov. “We mustn't be scared by clubs because the truth is on our side."At one point, crowds of demonstrators walked toward the Matrosskaya Tishina prison where Navalny is being held. They were met by phalanxes of riot police who pushed the march back and chased protesters through courtyards.Demonstrators continued to march around the Russian capital, zigzagging around police cordons. Officers broke them into smaller groups and detained scores, beating some with clubs and occasionally using tasers.Over 1,600 people were detained in Moscow, including Navalny's wife, Yulia, who was released after several hours pending a court hearing Monday on charges of taking part in an unsanctioned protest.Amnesty International said that authorities in Moscow have arrested so many people that the city's detention facilities have run out of space. “The Kremlin is waging a war on the human rights of people in Russia, stifling protesters' calls for freedom and change,” Natalia Zviagina, the group's Moscow office head, said in a statement.Several thousand people marched across Russia's second-largest city of St. Petersburg, chanting “Down with the czar!” and occasional scuffles erupted as some demonstrators pushed back police who tried to make detentions. Over 1,100 were arrested.Putin says neither he nor any of his close relatives own the property. On Saturday, construction magnate Arkady Rotenberg, a longtime Putin confidant and his occasional judo sparring partner, claimed that he himself owned the property.Navalny fell into a coma on Aug. 20 while on a flight from Siberia to Moscow and the pilot diverted the plane so he could be treated in the city of Omsk. He was transferred to a Berlin hospital two days later. Labs in Germany, France and Sweden, and tests by the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, established that he was exposed to the Novichok nerve agent.Russian authorities have refused to open a full-fledged criminal inquiry, claiming lack of evidence that he was poisoned.Navalny was arrested immediately upon his return to Russia earlier this month and jailed for 30 days on the request of Russia's prison service, which alleged he had violated the probation of his suspended sentence from a 2014 money-laundering conviction that he has rejected as political revenge.On Thursday, a Moscow court rejected Navalny's appeal to be released, and the hearing Tuesday could turn his 3 1/2-year suspended sentence into one he must serve in prison.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/over-5-000-arrested-at-pro-navalny-protests-across-russia-101612139013707.html
01-02-2021||World||Trump names new impeachment lawyers after parting with team||Former President Donald Trump announced that two trial lawyers will take over representing him at his upcoming impeachment trial after parting ways with his previous defense team.Attorneys David Schoen and Bruce L. Castor Jr. will head his impeachment defense, the former president announced Sunday evening. His previous attorneys, including Butch Bowers of South Carolina, departed this weekend, leaving the president without representation just over a week before his trial is to start.Schoen has already been working with Trump and other advisers to prepare for the trial, and both Schoen and Castor agree that the impeachment is unconstitutional, Trump said in the release.Former White House lawyers Pat Cipollone and Eric Herschmann are still in touch with Trump but won’t be taking an official role in his defense, said two people familiar with the matter.Schoen previously represented Trump adviser Roger Stone and victims of terrorism under the Anti-Terrorism Act, according to Trump’s office. He practices across the U.S., focusing on civil rights litigation in Alabama and federal criminal defense work, including white collar cases, in New York, the release said. Schoen has appeared on Fox News, including to discuss the case of accused child sex trafficker Jeffrey Epstein.Castor was district attorney of Montgomery County, Pennsylvania, from 2000 to 2008 and later twice elected Montgomery County commissioner, according to the release. Castor also served as solicitor general and acting attorney general of Pennsylvania.The moves comes as the former president faces a Tuesday deadline to file an initial response to the impeachment charge, and the trial is expected to begin Feb. 9.Citing sources it didn’t identify, CNN reported on Saturday that Bowers and the other attorneys representing Trump parted ways after the former president wanted the lawyers to argue that the Nov. 3 election had been stolen from him by massive fraud, an argument he’s already lost in multiple court challenges. The lawyers prefer to focus on the constitutionality of impeaching a president who’s already left office.The House impeached Trump on one charge of incitement of insurrection after he encouraged supporters who went on to riot at the U.S. Capitol on Jan. 6 in an effort to stop the counting of Electoral College votes for President Joe Biden. Five people died in the mayhem, including one police officer.Out of OfficeDemocrats were joined by 10 Republicans, including No. 3 House Republican Liz Cheney of Wyoming, in supporting impeachment.Trump’s allies have argued that a president who’s no longer in office can’t be impeached, and 45 Republican senators voted last week for a measure to declare the attempt unconstitutional, suggesting it is unlikely at least 17 would vote to convict.Republican Senator Rob Portman of Ohio said on CNN’s “State of the Union” on Sunday that while Trump’s actions were “inexcusable,” he’s keeping an open mind as a juror and the constitutionality of impeaching a former president must be considered.“If the argument is not going to be made on issues like constitutionality, which are real issues and need to be addressed, I think it will not benefit the president,” said Portman, who announced last week he’s not seeking re-election in 2022.On “Fox News Sunday,” GOP Senator Bill Cassidy of Louisiana said that if the evidence presented is that Trump “contributed to an atmosphere to have people charge the Capitol” and threaten members of Congress, “I would hope that whatever defense is put up refutes that charge.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-names-new-impeachment-lawyers-after-parting-with-team-101612137307140.html
01-02-2021||World||Donald Trump raised USD 255.4 M in 8 weeks in bid to overturn election||Former US President Donald Trump and the Republican Party raised USD 255.4 million in the eight-plus weeks following the November 3 election, new federal filings show, as he sought to undermine and overturn the results with unfounded accusations of fraud.The New York Times (NYT) reported that Trump's strongest fund-raising came in the immediate aftermath of the election, such as after major media organizations declared that Joe Biden had won on November 7. However, despite Trump and his legal team lost case after case -- in venues including the US Supreme Court -- his donors continued to give funds repeatedly.It was further reported that more than two million contributions flowed into Trump, the Republican National Committee (RNC), and their shared accounts from November 24 through the end of the year.The donations were made public over the weekend in a Federal Election Commission filing by WinRed, the digital platform that Republicans use to process online donations."Mr. Trump's campaign committee, joint committees with the R.N.C., and the new political action committee he formed after the election, Save America, will all file additional disclosures on Sunday with more details on spending and fund-raising," NYT reported.Trump previously announced that he and the RNC had raised USD 207.5 million in the first month following the election.The new records show that his fund-raising fell sharply in December compared with November, with an especially notable dip after December 14, the day the Electoral College formally cast its ballots to make Biden the 46th US president.According to the American newspaper, Trump and the R.N.C. had raised an average of USD 2.9 million every day online in the two weeks leading up to the Electoral College vote; in the two weeks after, the average was USD 1.2 million."The new figures capture almost all of Trump's online fund-raising, as he stopped raising money on January 6, the day on which he addressed a mob of supporters who then stormed the Capitol in a violent riot and on which Biden was formally ratified by Congress as the next president," NYT reported further.Trump essentially ceased sending fund-raising pitches to his supporters, according to the newspaper. Late on Saturday, Trump abruptly parted ways with the lead lawyer, Butch Bowers, on his impeachment defense.The US Senate formally opened the second impeachment trial for former President Donald Trump on Tuesday with the swearing-in of Senate President Pro-Tempore Patrick Leahy to preside over the process and the swearing-in of the senators to serve as jurors.On Monday, the House of Representatives delivered the article of impeachment against Trump, accusing him of inciting an insurrection at the US Capitol building on January 6 to stop Congress from verifying President Joe Biden's win in the 2020 election.The impeachment trial arguments will begin on February 9.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-raised-usd-255-4-m-in-8-weeks-in-bid-to-overturn-election-101612136259142.html
01-02-2021||World||Navalny supporters march in defiance; 4,000 arrested||Chanting slogans against President Vladimir Putin, thousands of people took to the streets Sunday across Russia’s vast expanse to demand the release of jailed opposition leader Alexei Navalny, keeping up the nationwide protests that have rattled the Kremlin.More than 4,000 people, including 1,167 people in capital Moscow, were detained by police, according to a monitoring group.Russian authorities mounted a massive effort to stem the tide of demonstrations after tens of thousands rallied across the country last weekend in the largest, most widespread show of discontent that Russia has seen in years. Yet despite threats of jail terms, warnings to social media groups and tight police cordons, the protests again engulfed many cities on Sunday.The 44-year-old Navalny, an anti-corruption investigator who is Putin’s best-known critic, was arrested on January 17 upon returning from Germany, where he spent five months recovering from a nerve-agent poisoning that he blames on the Kremlin. Russian authorities have rejected the accusations. He was arrested for allegedly violating his parole conditions by not reporting for meetings with law enforcement when he was recuperating in Germany.Also read: US condemns Russia’s 'harsh tactics' on protestersOn Sunday, police detained over 4,027 people at protests held in cities across Russia’s 11 time zones, according to OVD-Info, a group that monitors political arrests. In Moscow, authorities introduced unprecedented security measures in the city centre, closing subway stations near the Kremlin, cutting bus traffic and ordering restaurants and stores to stay closed.Navalny’s team initially called for Sunday’s protest to be held on Moscow’s Lubyanka Square, home to the main headquarters of the Federal Security Service, which Navalny claims was responsible for his poisoning. Facing police cordons around the square, the protest shifted to other central squares and streets. Police were randomly picking up people and putting them into police buses, but thousands of protesters marched across the city centre, chanting “Putin, resign!” and Putin, thief!”More than 1,200 people were detained in Moscow, including Navalny’s wife, Yulia. “If we keep silent, they will come after any of us tomorrow,” she said on Instagram before the protests. The city of Novosibirsk in eastern Siberia saw one of the country’s biggest rallies. An estimated 2,000 marched across Russia’s second-largest city of St. Petersburg.Nearly 4,000 people were detained at demonstrations on January 23 in more than 100 Russian cities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/navalny-supporters-march-in-defiance-4-000-arrested-101612131302575.html
01-02-2021||World||GameStop: US senators Sanders, Warren call for Wall Street reform||Progressive US senators Bernie Sanders and Elizabeth Warren called on Sunday for action against what they said were the Wall Street abuses by hedge funds revealed by the recent frenzy over GameStop shares."We need an SEC investigation," Warren told CNN, referring to the federal Securities and Exchange Commission."What's happening with GameStop is just a reminder of what's been going on on Wall Street now for years," the Democratic senator said."It's a rigged game, and it's been a set of players who come in and manipulate the market."Amateur investors who organized over Reddit and other online forums have in recent days targeted shares of companies including GameStop that had been "short-sold" by hedge funds in a bet that the price of the shares would fall.The Reddit group's tactics caused massive spikes in share prices.The SEC said Friday that it was "closely monitoring and evaluating the extreme price volatility of certain stocks' trading prices" and would "act to protect retail investors when the facts demonstrate abusive or manipulative trading activity that is prohibited" by federal law.But Warren called for more decisive action."It is time for the SEC to get off their duffs and do their jobs," said Warren, whose national profile rose when she led a push for tougher financial regulations following the meltdown of 2007-2008."We need more regulation about market manipulation."Independent senator Bernie Sanders was similarly critical."I have long believed that the business model of Wall Street is flawed," he told ABC's "This Week.""We have to take a very hard look at the kind of illegal activities and outrageous behavior on the part of the hedge funds and other Wall Street players."Shares in GameStop, a major video game retailer that has been financially ailing, soared during the Reddit group's massive buying initiative -- mounted in protest against the hedge funds' betting on GameStop's demise.To cover their losses, the hedge funds had to buy back, at higher prices, shares they had sold.Brian Deese, a top economic advisor to President Joe Biden, said Sunday that the SEC was "focused on understanding fully what happened here.""We're going to look at those issues and certainly understand fully this particular episode and the broader questions there," he told CNN.But he said the new administration was concentrating first on alleviating the economic pain flowing from the Covid-19 pandemic."Our immediate focus here is on taking the action we need to put a floor under this economic crisis."la/bbk/bgs||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/gamestop-us-senators-sanders-warren-call-for-wall-street-reform-101612120135580.html
01-02-2021||World||GOP's Adam Kinzinger starts PAC to resist party’s Trump embrace||Rep. Adam Kinzinger, one of 10 Republicans who voted to impeach Donald Trump, is launching a political action committee to push back against a House GOP leadership team and party that he says have become too closely aligned to the former president.The “Country 1st” PAC, unveiled in a six-minute video released Sunday, will challenge the current direction of a GOP that Kinzinger says has wrongly become a “Trump-first party” to the detriment of the nation, as seen by the Jan. 6 riot at the Capitol.The Illinois congressman cited most Republicans’ seeming unwillingness to hold Trump accountable for his role in encouraging the violent protests, as well as the party's support of lawmakers such as Georgia Rep. Marjorie Taylor Greene, who has drawn criticism for past social media posts reported by various news organizations in which she’s suggested support for killing Democratic politicians, unfounded QAnon theories and racist views.The goal of the PAC is to say, “Let’s take a look at the last four years, how far we have come in a bad way,” Kinzinger said on NBC’s “Meet the Press.” “How backward-looking we are, how much we peddle darkness and division. And that’s not the party I ever signed up for. And I think most Republicans didn’t sign up for that.”“It doesn’t mean we don’t need to fight back, you know, to defend what we believe, conservative principles,” he added. “But when I ask people now what is a conservative principle, how many people think that conservative principles are things like just ‘build the wall’ and, you know, charge the Capitol and have an insurrection?”Kinzinger also criticized the leadership of House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy, R-Calif., who initially said after the riot that Trump bears responsibility for the violence. But after meeting privately with the former president last week in Florida, McCarthy tweeted in support, “United and ready to win in ’22.”Kinzinger also cites the GOP’s efforts to remove Wyoming Rep. Liz Cheney from the leadership team because she voted to impeach Trump.“Republicans must say enough is enough," Kinzinger says in the video. “It’s time to unplug the outrage machine, reject the politics of personality, and cast aside the conspiracy theories and the rage.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/gops-adam-kinzinger-starts-pac-to-resist-party-s-trump-embrace-101612119739580.html
01-02-2021||World||EU looks to bolster future health response amid Covid-19 vaccine snags||The European Union said it’s taking steps to bolster its pandemic preparedness, citing the risk posed by Covid variants that reduce the efficacy of vaccines.European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen on Sunday held a video call with chief executives of pharmaceutical companies including AstraZeneca Plc and Moderna Inc. to discuss how vaccines could be more rapidly deployed, manufactured and approved in the future.“The pandemic highlighted that manufacturing capacities are a limiting factor. It is essential to address these challenges,” the commission said in a statement after the call. It added that “the emergence of variants of concern raises the imminent threat of reduced efficacy of recently approved vaccines.”The meeting comes at a perilous time for the EU as it tries to overcome the slow and chaotic rollout of its vaccination program. The bloc introduced new measures over the weekend that would oblige drug companies to obtain prior authorization before they can send shots manufactured in the EU to other countries.During the meeting, the issue of export restrictions wasn’t discussed, according to an official with knowledge of the talks who asked not to be identified because the call was private.The restrictive export measures represent a dramatic escalation in the global battle for vaccines, with thousands dying every day and the European economy struggling under lockdown measures that have lasted almost a year. But the move risks drawing accusations of protectionism as the EU tries to compensate for perceived missteps in negotiations with drugmakers and the slow rollout of national vaccination programs.So far, the EU’s 27 governments have administered just 2.6 doses of vaccine per 100 people, far behind the 12.5 doses in the UK and 8.8 in the US Furthermore, hiccups in the supply of the highly anticipated AstraZeneca vaccine have cast serious doubts over the bloc’s ability to meet its ambitious inoculation targets.Also included in the meeting were executives from BioNTech SE, Pfizer Inc., Johnson & Johnson, CureVac NV and Sanofi, according to the statement.Sunday’s discussion between von der Leyen and the pharmaceutical executives focused on the EU’s longer term health strategy and preparedness. Inspired by early stumbles in curbing the spread of the coronavirus last year, the push for a common approach aims to guard against a patchwork of national responses to any future health scares.The discussion follows proposals by the commission last November to beef up the EU’s health agencies, after the pandemic overwhelmed the continent’s hospitals and left countries struggling with supply shortages. The plans included giving more clout to the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control and the European Medicines Agency.On Jan. 29, the EU’s drug regulator cleared a Covid-19 vaccine from AstraZeneca and the University of Oxford. The new vaccine will be the third available in the EU after shots from Pfizer and Moderna, and it could help alleviate the shortage of shots as the EU trails the UK and the US in vaccinations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/eu-looks-to-bolster-future-health-response-amid-covid-19-vaccine-snags-101612117706682.html
01-02-2021||World||Trump impeachment defence lawyers quit ahead of Senate trial||Former president Donald Trump has parted ways with lawyers who would have led his defence in the impeachment trial set to start on February 9 in the US Senate.Butch Bowers, a South Carolina lawyer, whose appointment was announced last week, is leaving as are Deborah Barbier, Josh Howard, Greg Harris and Johnny Gasser, according to CNN, which first reported the abrupt departures on Saturday, just days from the start of the former president’s impeachment trial.The former president had reportedly pressed the lawyers to argue that he lost the election because of fraud, a lie that did not stand scrutiny in more than 60 lawsuits and multiple recounts and audits, and eventually led Trump to incite a mob of supporters to storm the US Capitol on January 6.The New York Times reported that a person close to Trump disputed this account (that the former president had asked the lawyers to make the election fraud plea) but acknowledged there were differences of opinion on the defence strategy.Trump was impeached by the House of Representatives in a bipartisan vote on January 13 for incitement of insurrection. He is the first US president impeached twice, and the first to face impeachment trial after leaving office.If convicted, Trump will be barred from holding any federal office in future, killing any pans that he may have of taking another shot at the White House.But with most of the 50 Republicans in the 100-member Senate rallying to his support, a supermajority of two-thirds needed to convict him looks unlikely. Even if all 50 Democrats voted to convict him, they will need 17 Republicans to join them to punish the president.Only five Republican senators had voted in support of a motion brought last Tuesday to declare the impeachment trial unconstitutional. The rest voted for the motion, which, however, was defeated in a 45-55 vote.The former president has had trouble finding lawyers to defend him this time, according to reports. His personal lawyer Rudy Giuliani might be a witness himself as he was among those who addressed the mob on January 6, infamously calling for a “trial by combat” to settle the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-impeachment-defence-lawyers-quit-ahead-of-senate-trial-101612109005035.html
01-02-2021||World||Scientists decode how coronavirus damages lung cells within hours||Following months of interdisciplinary research assessing tens of thousands of lung cells infected with the novel coronavirus, scientists have created one of the most comprehensive maps to date of the molecular activities that are triggered inside these cells at the onset of the viral infection, an advance that may lead to the development of new drugs to combat Covid-19.From their analysis, the scientists, including those from Boston University in the US, discovered close to 18 existing drugs approved by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) that could potentially be repurposed to combat Covid-19 soon after a person becomes infected.They said five of these drugs could reduce the spread of the coronavirus in human lung cells by more than 90 per cent.In the research, published in the journal Molecular Cell, the scientists simultaneously infected tens of thousands of lab-grown human lung cells with the SARS-CoV-2 virus, and tracked what happens in these cells during the moments after infection.Also read| Must wear masks on public transportation amid coronavirus pandemic: CDCThey said these engineered cells are not completely identical to the living, breathing cells inside our bodies, but are the "closest thing to it.""What makes this research unusual is that we looked at very early time points [of infection], at just one hour after the virus infects lung cells. It was scary to see that the virus already starts to damage the cells so early during infection," said study co-author and virologist Elke Muhlberger from Boston University (BU).According to the researchers, "the virus does wholesale remodeling of the lung cells.""It's amazing the degree to which the virus commandeers the cells it infects," said Andrew Emili, another co-author of the study from BU.Since viruses cannot replicate themselves, they hijack the host cell machinery to make copies of its genetic material.In the study, the scientists found that when SARS-CoV-2 takes over, it completely changes the cells' metabolic processes.Also read| South Korea warns of Lunar New Year virus risksThe virus even damages the cells' nuclear membranes within three to six hours after infection, which the team said was very surprising.In contrast, "cells infected with the deadly Ebola virus don't show any obvious structural changes at these early time points of infection, and even at late stages of infection, the nuclear membrane is still intact," Muhlberger said.The scientists explained that the cell's nuclear membrane surrounds the nucleus, which holds the majority of the genetic information, and controls and regulates normal cellular functions.With the nucleus compromised by the coronavirus, they said "things rapidly take a bad turn for the entire cell."The lung cells -- which normally play a role in maintaining the essential gas exchange of oxygen and carbon dioxide that occurs when we breathe -- die under this siege, the study noted.According to the researchers, the cells also emit distress signals which boost inflammation as they die, triggering a cascade of biological activity that accelerates more cell death.This eventually leads to pneumonia, acute respiratory distress, and lung failure, they explained."I couldn't have predicted a lot of these pathways, most of them were news to me. That's why our [experimental] model is so valuable," said Andrew Wilson, one of the study's senior authors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/scientists-decode-how-coronavirus-damages-lung-cells-within-hours-101612091227438.html
01-02-2021||India||Naresh Tikait's son says 'will fight till last breath for farmers' honour'||Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) vice-president Jayant Chaudhary on Monday described farmers as “Hanuman” and exhorted them to recognise their unlimited strength while Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) youth wing president Gaurav Tikait said the government would not be allowed to ruin farmers and country's agriculture.They were speaking at the Kisan Samman Mahapanchayat in Bijnor district of western Uttar Pradesh. This was the fourth such major gathering of farmers organised in the region in the last four days. The previous three were held in Muzaffarnagar on Friday, Mathura on Saturday and Baraut in Baghpat on Sunday. Like the other congregations, the Bijnor mahapanchayat also drew a huge crowd of farmers.“We would fight until our last breath to keep the farmers’ honour and respect intact,” said Gaurav Tikait and expressed his gratitude to the people of Bijnor and farmers for turning up in large numbers to attend the mahapanchayat.Barring Jayant Chaudhary, who spoke for a few minutes, other political leaders, including those of the Samajwadi Party, the Congress and the RLD, were not allowed to share the stage.Also read: Twitter restores 250 accounts blocked in India for a controversial hashtagWhile BKU chief Naresh Tikait was expected to attend the mahapanchayat, he sent his son Gaurav Tikait instead.Gaurav Tikait called upon farmers to support the movement, rising above caste and community, “because farmers have no caste”.He said, “Over 150 farmers have been martyred during the movement.”For his part, RLD leader Jayant Choudhary also said, “We need to unite and work together to break the ego of this government.”He advised farmers to remain patient during the battle against three contentious farm reform laws.Hitting out at UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath, he said, "The state government has not declared the sugarcane price even after two months of the ongoing crushing season in the mills."Meanwhile, banners were put up at two more villages in Amroha district, banning the entry of BJP leaders over the new farm laws. These two new villages are Nareni and Baldana Heera Singh, Chaudhary Chatrapal Singh, pradhan of Nareni village in Amroha, said on Monday. A similar ban had been declared at Kumrala Bahadarpur village in the same district on Sunday.Chatrapal Singh said the police came to his village on Sunday midnight and took the banner away.“We were not against the police, but the government. Then, why are the police removing banners and boards?” asked Chatrapal Singh.Bijendra Singh, a farmer from Nirpura village in Baghpat district, had declared at Sunday’s panchayat in Baraut that residents of his village would not allow BJP leaders to enter the village. He had also demanded that Union minister Sanjeev Baliyan and Baghpat MP Satyapal Singh should resign in support of farmers.Meanwhile, support for the farmers' movement continued with villagers heading for the Ghazipur border in groups, carrying ration, vegetables, milk, curd and other commodities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/naresh-tikait-s-son-says-will-fight-till-last-breath-for-farmers-honour-101612203337745.html
01-02-2021||India||Indian farmers' protest resonates with US agriculture||Images of thousands of farmers streaming into India's capital on tractors and carrying banners to decry potentially devastating changes in agricultural policy can seem a world away, but the protests in New Delhi raise issues that resonate in the United States and have led to dramatic change in rural America.Indian farmers have left their homes to march through New Delhi in a desperate effort to force the repeal of laws they believe would end guaranteed pricing and force them to sell to powerful corporations rather than government-run markets. Despite decades of economic growth, up to half of India’s population relies on growing crops on small parcels of land, typically less than 3 acres, and farmers worry that without guaranteed prices they will be forced to sell their land and lose their livelihoods.The dispute raises questions not only about agriculture but about dwindling populations in rural India where small communities are already struggling to survive — an issue mirrored in the parts of the US“These protests have gone way beyond the bills because this has spiraled into a larger conversation about the soul of rural India, which is something very familiar to those of us in the Midwest,” said Andrew Flachs, an anthropology professor at Purdue University who has extensively studied the experiences of cotton farmers in India. “We’re always talking about the spirit of American agrarianism and the soul of rural America and this has shifted into a conversation of those same dynamics in India.”The images of farmers marching through New Delhi recall similar scenes in Washington, D.C., during the farming crisis of the late 1970s and early 1980s, when hundreds of trucks and tractors flooded the National Mall. Thousands of farmers lost their land, in part because of government policies that caused soaring interest rates as demand for their products plunged, leading to falling land values.In Iowa — one of the hardest hit states — there were about 500 farm auctions a month in 1983 when families had no choice but to sell.Decades later, those memories remain fresh for Rick Juchems, whose parents had to sell their 640-acre farm in Iowa. Just as feared by those protesting in India, the American farmers lost their livelihoods and sense of identity.“We were just trying to stay alive,” said Juchems, who later was able to continue farming thanks to his in-laws. “That’s what you work all your life for and then it’s gone.”Rural economies in the Midwest that had been declining for decades were devastated by the farm crisis. But while many farmers who survived emerged more prosperous, the communities near them continued to struggle. Researchers fear the same could happen in India if New Delhi refuses to repeal the law that favors corporate farming.Post-crisis, many Americans in rural areas were able to adapt, moving to cities and finding jobs, but Bengaluru, India-based social anthropologist Aninhalli Vasavi said farmers in India have few options. Even as economic realities force them to leave their rural homes, they often struggle in urban areas.“India has not had a substantial industrial base to absorb the large population into gainful industrial or urban employment,” Vasavi said via email. “Instead, vast number of rural migrants are ‘adversely integrated’ into the low-end urban and construction economy.”The challenges facing India are common to many developing countries in Asia, where farmland has been gobbled up, often for factories and property development, leaving legions of farmers without adequate compensation and bereft of their livelihoods.In countries including Myanmar, Cambodia and China, many end up on the fringes of fast industrializing cities, finding low-paid work in service jobs such as massage parlors and delivery services that provide no social benefits or security.Vasavi and others also worry about the environmental consequences of the shift from labor-intensive agriculture in India toward the large-scale farming familiar in the US. Such farming isn’t new to India, which implemented aspects of industrial farming — dubbed the Green Revolution — in the 1960s and succeeded in increasing production and reducing widespread hunger.Even as the many small plots make India less productive than in the US, researchers say Indian farmers are good stewards of their land and avoid some of the environmental consequences seen in US agriculture, such as fertilizer runoff and soil depletion.Peggy Barlett, an Emory University anthropology professor who studies agriculture and rural life, said that while a push for industrial farming might seem obvious to Americans accustomed to large-scale farming, it makes less sense in India, where there is plenty of labor but less money for expensive farm equipment.As more attention is paid to the role of agriculture in climate change, US farmers also will be confronted more in coming years with the environmental cost of petroleum-based fertilizer, rather than relying on organic methods used frequently on small farms, Barlett said.Ohio State University researcher Andrea Rissing said there has been a surge in young Americans growing vegetables on a few acres, in some ways more like in India than in the US Midwest. Those small holdings meet a growing demand for fresh, locally grown produce.Rissing said many of her students have no choice but to think small because farmland is so expensive, but they also are drawn to non-mechanized farming that improves soils and limits runoff into waterways. Others are building food hubs to market their vegetables locally, rather than send it to markets nationwide and abroad as is typical of large-scale agriculture in the USIt’s the kind of farming Rissing prefers, but she acknowledges: “Farming is hard. It’s hard for small-scale farmers and it’s hard for big corn and soybean farmers, too.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-farmers-protests-resonate-with-us-agriculture-101612200220830.html
01-02-2021||India||Punjab CM announces helpline number for people missing after R-Day tractor rally||Expressing concern over the more than 100 people from Punjab missing in the Delhi-Haryana region since the Republic Day tractor rally, Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Monday announced helpline number 112 to report instances of such missing people.On his directive, the state AG appointed 70 lawyers to provide free legal aid to farmers facing cases in the national capital. The Chief Minister said his cabinet colleagues had met the Union Home Minister on the issue and he would personally take up the cases of such missing persons and farmers with the Ministry of Home Affairs."Our hearts are with those fighting for their rights at the Delhi borders," said the Chief Minister, appealing to the people of Punjab to immediately dial 112 to report any case of a person missing during the tractor rally.He further added, "We will do everything possible to locate those who are missing. We are trying to get details and will ensure that they return to their homes".Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar urged the Chief Minister to help out the farmers facing legal cases in the national capital.It is learnt that the Delhi Police has arrested around 89 persons, hailing from UP, Haryana and Punjab, and registered 38 FIRs in connection with the Republic Day violence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-cm-announces-helpline-number-for-people-missing-after-r-day-tractor-rally-101612199659346.html
01-02-2021||India||Naveen Patnaik lauds Budget 2021, says dip in share of central taxes worrying||Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Monday praised the Union Budget that was presented in Parliament by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman saying the Centre's replication of state scheme of Mamata and Mission Shakti was a logical step towards women empowerment.But he expressed his concern that Odisha would be hit by the drastic reduction of share in central taxes by about ₹10,840 crore for the current year and as per the recommendations of the 15th Finance Commission, the horizontal share will decrease from 4.629 per cent to 4.528 per cent for the next 5 years.“After Odisha’s Mamata scheme was adopted by the Centre from 2011-2012, replication of our state’s flagship women empowerment initiative Mission Shakti clearly shows that Odisha has set a benchmark for the nation. I am hopeful that after Mamata and Mission Shakti the next logical step towards women empowerment would be reservation for women in Lok Sabha and the state assemblies. We will continue to fight for this,” he said.Patnaik praised the Budget for its focus on capital investment to boost growth, reintroduction of developmental financial institution, allocation for Covid-19 vaccines, industry and sector specific interventions.“Further capital investments very much required in Odisha both in railways and highways sectors as it has been planned for other states. There is a need to increase allocation in social assistance programmes and quantum of transfers for local bodies. Centralization of revenue by introduction of cess in petrol and diesel will weaken the Centre- state fiscal balance,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/naveen-patnaik-lauds-budget-2021-says-dip-in-share-of-central-taxes-worrying-101612196049907.html
01-02-2021||India||Darjeeling’s GJM, an ally of TMC, wants national body for Gorkhas||The Binoy Tamang faction of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (GJM), which is in charge of Darjeeling’s autonomous administrative body, on Monday demanded the formation of a national statutory body, to be named All India Gorkha Assembly, for the development of Gorkhas across India.The Tamang faction of the GJM is an ally of West Bengal’s ruling party Trinamool Congress (TMC.Addressing the media in Darjeeling, Tamang, the president of the faction, said, "We want a different setup for all Gorkhas. It will look into issues related to their identity. We have been demanding the demarcation of a geographical area (in the Darjeeling hills) but what about those who live elsewhere?”Tamang was referring to the demand for a separate state of Gorkhaland comprising parts of Darjeeling, Terai and Dooars.“The All India Gorkha Assembly should be formed by amending the Constitution. The proposed body will not operate within any designated geophysical area. It will be a pan-India statutory development body and all elected people’s representatives from the community should be its members,” said Tamang."The Indo Bhutan Treaty of 1949 and Indo Nepal Friendship Treaty of 1950 should be reviewed to grant constitutional justice to Gorkhas,” he said.Tamang also demanded the publication of the report of Eminent Persons Group (EPG). The EPG was formed in 2016 by India and Nepal to review the Indo-Nepal Friendship Treaty of 1950 and other agreements between the two countries.Tamang said, “Our demand is that article 6, 7 and 8 of the 1950 treaty should be reviewed. Because of these, Indian Gorkhas are facing an existential and identity crisis. If it is not reviewed and amended we will continue to face a crisis. The EPG has met nine times but till now we do not know the outcome of those meetings. The report has neither been made public by the Indian government nor by the Nepal government.”Tamang said that according to the 1949 Indo-Bhutan treaty, the land in Dooars and Kalimpong district is still owned by Bhutan. “We demand to know the stand of the Indian government on this. We will be writing to the Prime Minister, the chief minister and the governor,” he saidWest Bengal’s tourism minister and legislator from Jalpaiguri district, Goutam Deb, refused to comment on Tamang’s demand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/darjeelings-gjm-an-ally-of-tmc-wants-national-body-for-gorkhas-101612195969855.html
01-02-2021||India||Twitter restores 250 accounts blocked in India for a controversial hashtag||Microblogging website Twitter late Monday evening moved to restore nearly 250 accounts that were blocked in India earlier in the day for allegedly using a controversial hashtag, a person familiar with the matter said.The decision to restore the accounts was taken after a meeting between Twitter officials and those from the ministry of electronics and information technology that had asked the social media company to block access to the handles “to prevent an escalation of violence” in the backdrop of the farmers' agitation.“Twitter had blocked these accounts in the interim in response to a valid legal request from the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology pending discussions with them,” said a person familiar with the matter on condition of anonymity.The accounts that had been “withheld” by Twitter included those of Kisan Ekta Morcha, activist Hansraj Meena, former Lok Sabha MP and CPI(M) leader Mohammed Salim, media outlet Caravan India, and actor Sushant Singh. The account of Prasar Bharati CEO Shashi Shekhar, who had nudged Twitter to act against people using the hashtag, was also restricted. The person added that the microblogging website conveyed to the officials concerned that the content withheld was "speech and newsworthy”. “Protecting public conversation and Transparency is fundamental to Twitter... the content is in process of being unblocked,” the person said.Hindustan Times reached out to the electronics and information technology ministry for a response but did not receive one immediately.But a government official had earlier explained that the IT ministry had issued directions to Twitter under Section 69 (A) of the Information Technology Act at the home ministry’s instance. “The home ministry said that the tweets could lead to an adverse law and order situation. The accounts have been withheld to prevent an escalation of violence,” a government official said hours before Twitter restored the accounts.Section 69(A) of the IT Act empowers the government to block access to content that is seen to pose a threat to public order.Withholding an account under Twitter’s policy restricts access to posts by the user. This is different from a suspension, as the account can be made available again and the restrictions are limited to the “specific jurisdiction that has issued the valid legal demand or where the content has been found to violate local law”.The accounts, according to the message displayed by the site, were withheld in India upon receipt of a legal demand. They were accessible to Twitter users if they changed their settings to another country.Twitter’s decision to act in line with the request from the government was sharply criticised by civil rights activists and opposition leaders who said it amounted to throttling free speech. Many people linked the decision to restrict access to selected accounts to their support to the farmers' protest.“After Facebook, the Modi govt seems to have taken control of Twitter India. This backdoor attempt to block the voice of those, who speak for free speech & farmers rights, has unmasked the authoritarian soul of this fascist BJP regime,” Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala said.Surjewala said the government had set a new standard in humiliating the constitution of the world’s largest democracy by compelling tech platforms to block accounts of anti-establishment entities, the Modi government has set.“Shocking! @TwitterIndia suspends several accounts of handles giving information about Farmers protests in response to 'legal demands'! Of whom? Govt? Certainly not of any court. If Twitter is going to kowtow to govt demands, how can it call itself an independent platform for FOE(freedom of expression),” lawyer and activist Prashant Bhushan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/twitter-restores-250-accounts-blocked-in-india-for-a-controversial-hashtag-101612195458796.html
01-02-2021||India||Odisha to start regular classes for students of IX and XI from February 8||The Odisha government will allow students of classes 9 and 11 to attend regular classes in schools from February 8.School and Mass Education Secretary Satyabrata Sahu said the offline classes for students of IX and XI will continue till April 30. Sahu said the state government is yet to take a decision on opening of primary classes for now.Earlier, offline classes of X and XII resumed in the state from January 8. The annual board exam of Class X students will be conducted between May 3 and 15 while the board exams for Class XII students would be held between May 15 and June 11.On Monday, Anganwadi centres across the state reopened after a gap of around 10 months due to the Covid-19 pandemic.The state government has also approved a proposal to distribute happiness kits to around 1.83 lakh students of Classes I to VIII in five districts of Odisha. The ‘happiness kits’ comprising wheat flour, turmeric powder, peanuts, jaggery, chickpeas, cinnamon, cardamom, biscuits and other nutritious food products, pen, pencil, note pad, sanitary napkin, toothpaste, iodised salt and soap would be given by NGO Akshay Patra, that looks after the midday meal of children in Nayagarh, Sundargarh, Khurda, Puri and Cuttack district.The kits are aimed at building nutrition, immunity, hygiene and education of children. As schools were closed, funds meant for midday meals were being directly deposited in the accounts of the beneficiaries. However, the contribution the foundation was making to provide nutritious foods to students in schools remained unutilised and the same will now be used for supplying the kits to children. The distribution will begin from the first week of February.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-to-start-regular-classes-for-students-of-ix-and-xi-from-february-8-101612195550157.html
01-02-2021||India||Tripura youth allegedly shot dead by BSF on Indo-Bangla border||A 22-year-old man was allegedly shot dead by the Border Security Police (BSF) at Belonia in South District of Tripura on Monday morning, police said.Debipur village, where the incident took place is barely 45 metres away from zero point on the Indo-Bangla border and about a hundred km south of Agartala.Jashim Mia was rushed to a local hospital where doctors declared him dead on arrival, police said.Police said that they are investigating the matter."We are not yet in a position to say what led to the incident. A case will be registered," said a South District police official who did not wish to be named.Soon after the incident at 10.30 am, villagers blocked a road demanding arrest of the BSF jawan after which the police rushed to the spot.Khalek Mia, father of the deceased, told media persons that he was assaulted by some BSF personnel along the border where he had taken his cattle. Hearing his cry, Jashim rushed there and inquired why his father was assaulted. At this, a BSF jawan fired at him.The BSF later issued a statement saying that it had to open fire after being attacked by cattle smugglers.“7-8 persons attempted to damage the international border fence with an intention to smuggle cattle to Bangladesh. When the BSF tried to resist, the miscreants attacked them with sharp weapons. In self-defense, the BSF fired with pump action gun that led the miscreants to flee from the spot and one sustained injury,” it said." .. . Further learnt that the injured miscreant was evacuated to PHC Hrishyamukh and further referred to Sub Divisional Hospital, Belonia where the doctor declared him dead. FIR of the incident has been lodged in the Police Station and BSF has ordered a departmental inquiry to investigate into the matter," it said in the statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-youth-allegedly-shot-dead-by-bsf-on-indo-bangla-border-101612193997874.html
01-02-2021||India||11 patients have a narrow escape as fire breaks out in a Cuttack hospital||Nearly a dozen patients in a private hospital in Cuttack city of Odisha had a providential escape on Monday when a major fire broke out at the facility.Officials said some extension and construction work was being carried out in Sun Hospital at Tulasipur area when the fire started on the top floor. As smoke bellowed out, the hospital authorities shifted 11 patients out quickly. The hospital, among the biggest nursing homes in Cuttack, did not have many patients as construction work was going on.Cuttack deputy commissioner of police Prateek Singh confirmed that there had been no casualties or injury due to the fire. The hospital is owned by one Dr Dipak Mitra.The approach road to the hospital is quite narrow, and it created hurdles for the fire tenders, at least 5 fire tenders entered the area to put out the flames. The fire service personnel also used a hydraulic platform to carry out operations on the top floor of the building.Maheswar Swain, director of the Odisha Fire and Disaster Response Academy said the fire service department has not granted any fire licence to the hospital. “The hospital authorities had been directed to adopt adequate fire safety measures. But they are yet to get the certificate. We could evacuate the patients safely as we had done mock evacuation exercises there earlier,” said Swain.Cuttack district collector Bhabani Shankar Chayani said that an inquiry has been ordered into the incident to find out if the fire safety measures were in place at the hospital.This is the second instance of fire in an Odisha hospital in less than 6 months. In September last year, 127 Covid-19 patients in a hospital of Cuttack city had a narrow escape when a fire broke out in the ICU of Sadguru Covid hospital in Jagatpur area of Cuttack. As smoke enveloped the ICU and other rooms, many patients fell unconscious.In the largest-ever hospital fire in the state, 24 patients were asphyxiated to death in Bhubaneswar's SUM hospital when a fire broke out in the ICU, dialysis and emergency units of the hospital in October 2016.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/11-patients-have-a-narrow-escape-as-fire-breaks-out-in-a-cuttack-hospital-101612194227168.html
01-02-2021||India||Show of strength is never done against family: UP minister on Naresh Tikait's remarks||Uttar Pradesh Minister Suresh Rana on Monday hit out at Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Naresh Tikait over his recent remarks and asserted that a show of strength is never done against the family.His statement comes a day after Tikait termed farm laws a "fire" (aag) which would lead to losses and urged the Centre to repeal them.Throwing a challenge, the BKU leader had said, "If a display of strength has to be done, then the BJP can do so in a state where it is in power like Uttar Pradesh and Haryana. The government will get to know its strength. We will make it fail at every place. We will bear the cost of the stage. We speak for the honour of the farmers."Replying to him, Rana said the welfare of farmers has always been the BJP's top priority."I am myself a son of a farmer and BJP has always kept the welfare of the farmers in its agenda. But I would only say that show of strength is never done against the family," Rana told PTI on Monday."Prime Minister Narendra Modi has taken the initiative of doubling the income of the farmers through new laws. And if the farmer brothers have raised questions, then the PM has kept the door for talks open," he added.The UP sugarcane development minister accused the Congress of misleading the farmers over the agri laws."In 2013, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi had spoken about amendments in laws for improvement in the agriculture sector. When Prime Minister Narendra Modi implemented this with courage, then instead of praising it, the party started misguiding the farmers. When such people joined the farmers' protest, its direction changed."When asked to comment on the recent remarks made by Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav over the farmers' issue, the UP minister alleged that indulging in casteist politics, spreading animosity in society, deriving political mileage and defining socialism using one's own lens is the priority of Yadav and his party.On Sunday, the SP chief had said that the farmers were deeply hurt by the moves made by the BJP to defame them."The farmers are feeling deeply hurt because of the moves made by the BJP to defame them. The BJP has enacted demonetisation, GST, labour laws and farm laws to give benefits only to the billionaires. The BJP has tortured the common people," he had said in a tweet in Hindi.Rana condemned the incidents of violence that unfolded during the farmers' tractor parade in Delhi on Republic Day."When the prime minister, home minister and the agriculture minister have kept the option of talks open, then solution can be reached through talks. Prime Minister Modi and UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath have continuously worked in the interest of the farmers," he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/show-of-strength-is-never-done-against-family-up-minister-on-naresh-tikait-s-remarks-101612193453895.html
01-02-2021||India||Mobile internet suspension now extended only in seven Haryana districts||The Haryana government on Monday further extended the suspension of mobile internet services till 5 pm on February 2 in seven districts of the state “to prevent any disturbance of peace and public order” amid protests by farmers against three new farm laws that witnessed violence earlier this week.  According to an official statement issued here, the Haryana government has extended the suspension of mobile internet services (2G/3G/4G/CDMA/GPRS), SMS services (only Bulk SMS) and all dongle services etc. provided on mobile networks except voice calls in seven districts -- Kaithal, Panipat, Jind, Rohtak, Charkhi Dadri, Sonipat and Jhajjar till 5 pm on February 2.This order is issued to prevent any disturbance of peace and public order in the jurisdiction of these districts of Haryana and shall be in force with immediate effect. Any person who will be found guilty of violation of aforesaid order will be liable for legal action under relevant provisions, it said.      The suspension of mobile internet has not been extended in Ambala, Bhiwani, Sirsa, Fatehabad, Kurukshetra, Karnal and Hisar, where it was suspended until 5 pm February 1.On Sunday, the government had also not extended suspension of mobile internet in Yamunanagar, Palwal and Rewari districts, where the mobile internet services were suspended until 5 pm of January 31.Commenting on the suspension of mobile internet services in some Haryana districts, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar had on Sunday said the decision was taken in the wake of the situation which had built up following incidents of violence in the national capital on January 26.  Khattar had said mobile internet had been suspended in some districts for a temporary period and will be restored once the law and order situation returns to normal.     The government had on January 26 ordered the suspension of mobile internet services in Sonipat, Jhajjar and Palwal districts after a violent farmers' protest rocked Delhi. On Friday, it had extended the suspension to some other districts.Thousands of protesting farmers had clashed with the police during the tractor rally in Delhi called by farmer unions on January 26 to highlight their demand for the repeal of the Centre's three new farm laws. Many protesters, driving tractors, reached the Red Fort and entered the monument. Some protesters even hoisted religious flags on its domes and the flagstaff at the ramparts, where the national flag is unfurled by the prime minister on Independence Day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mobile-internet-suspension-now-extended-only-in-seven-haryana-districts-101612193174692.html
01-02-2021||India||News updates from HT: Mamata Banerjee labels Union budget 'anti-poor' and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.'Anti-farmer, anti-people and anti-country’: Bengal CM Mamata on Budget 2021The tussle between the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) and its main challenger in the coming assembly polls, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), intensified on Monday. Read MoreBudget 2021: Sitharaman’s Rs.225k crore infra push for 4 poll-bound statesFinance minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s 2021 budget had special focus on the four election-bound states with allocation of ₹225,000 crore for infrastructure projects in these states. Read MoreNo illegal detention of farmers after Republic Day violence: Delhi PoliceThe Delhi Police said on Monday they have not detained anyone illegally in connection with the violence that broke out in the national capital during the farmers' tractor rally on Republic Day. Read MoreSII awaits Centre’s purchase nod for Covishield vaccine’s second batchPune-based pharma major Serum Institute of India (SII) awaits the purchase order for the second lot of Covishield vaccine. Read MoreThis turtleneck sweater by Prada reminds netizens of Swiss cheese. What do you think about it?A knit arm warmer by Zara took the Internet by storm because of its odd design back in December. Read More'He can give you heart attacks, heartaches, heartbreaks': R Sridhar calls Rishabh Pant a 'great package'It's no secret that R Sridhar has been phenomenal in his role as the fielding coach of the Indian cricket team. Read MoreKapil Sharma jokes about Guru Randhawa's recent brush with police, leaves singer red-facedComedian-actor Kapil Sharma, on the Kapil Sharma Show, cracked a joke at singer Guru Randhawa's recent brush with the law. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-mamata-banerjee-labels-union-budget-anti-poor-and-all-the-latest-news-101612191124509.html
01-02-2021||India||SC notice on privacy concerns to Google, WhatsApp, Amazon UPIs||The Supreme Court on Monday issued notices to WhatsApp Pay, Google Pay and Amazon Pay on a petition raising concerns over data protection on their unified payment interface. The petition was filed by Rajya Sabha Member of Parliament (MP) Binoy Viswam from Communist Party of India (CPI).Although a notice on the petition was earlier issued by the top court on October 15, 2020, responses were filed only by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) and the National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI). But with the absence of any response from WhatsApp Pay, Google Pay and Amazon Pay who were named as parties in the petition, Viswam’s counsel senior advocate Krishnan Venugopal informed the court that formal notice must be sent to them as well.The three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde issued a notice on the petition and also on an intervention filed by two information technology professionals Vaibhav Gupta and Yedhu Krishna Menon. The bench sought responses from the UPI platforms and posted the matter for hearing after four weeks.Also Read: Twitter restores accounts restricted for talking about ‘farmer genocide’According to the petition, sensitive financial data of Indian users was at huge risk as these private entities are based abroad and can use the data of Indian citizens abroad in the absence of strong scrutiny by RBI. The petition cited an April 2018 circular of RBI that required all UPI operators to ensure that all the data related to payment systems operated by them is stored in India. The operators were asked to comply with the requirement within six months.Subsequently, RBI filed an affidavit denying any role in this regard. The banking regulator told the top court that the NPCI has the responsibility to ensure the UPIs operate under the laws that govern them. Since the permission to operate UPIs has been granted by NPCI, the RBI has no regulatory control that can be exercised over UPIs operated by WhatsApp/Facebook, Google and Amazon.On Monday, the CPI MP also filed an additional affidavit to bring on record the threat to privacy posed by WhatsApp by highlighting the case of the Pegasus Spyware attack on thousands of WhatsApp users last year which exposed the vulnerability of content shared on WhatsApp. Viswam, in a separate application, pointed out a recent incident involving the TRP scam where conversations between a top journalist and ex-CEO of Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) were leaked.The application filed through his lawyer Sriram Parakkat said, “It is still not clear as to how these chats made their way into the public domain, when WhatsApp guarantees end-to-end encryption of messages sent within the application. These incidents raise serious questions to the sanctity and security of conversations on the application, and in the case of the Payments service offered by the application, the concern is not only limited to private conversations, but even more sensitive data that must be protected.”The Supreme Court is already seized of two petitions on the issue of safety of UPIs and lack of regulatory regime to ensure protection of data exchanged on these forums. The first petition was filed by NGO Centre for Accountability and Systemic Change while the second petition was filed specifically against WhatsApp Pay by an unregistered think tank called Good Governance Chambers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-notice-on-privacy-concerns-to-google-whatsapp-amazon-upis-101612192948826.html
01-02-2021||India||Farmers announce nationwide agitation on Feb 6, issue calls to block roads||Barely a week after the violence in the national capital on India's 72nd Republic Day, a section of protesting farmers on Monday gave a call for a nationwide agitation on February 6. This comes even as thousands of farmers are protesting against the three contentious farm laws at the borders of Delhi for more than two months now."There will be a country-wide agitation on February 6. We will block roads between 12pm and 3pm," Balbir Singh Rajewal of Bhartiya Kisan Union (R) said, according to news agency ANI.The farmers made the announcement during a press conference at the Singhu Border that they will block national and state highways for three hours to lodge their protest. The road blockade has been called by farm union to reinforce their demands of the repeal of the farm laws, against the suspension of internet and barricading of roads, and against the budget announced on Monday.This announcement from farmers comes amid tight security measures by the Delhi Police near the protest sites where buses of the Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) are being used to seal main entry points amid other multi-layered security arrangements and checkpoints both by the police and farmers' union volunteers. Ghazipur, the new focal point of the ongoing farmers' agitation, also witnessed heightened restrictions on Monday even as it continues to aggrieve Delhi, Noida and Ghaziabad commuters. The Delhi-UP border site, which is galvanising farmers from Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand days after BKU leader Rakesh Tikait's emotional appeal, is a fortress in the making with security arrangements being amplified with every passing day.As the farmers alleged that they have been "ignored" in the Union Budget 2021-22, they also pointed out that water and power supply have been curtailed at their protest venues. The Samkyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of protesting unions, also alleged that the Twitter accounts of Kisan Ekta Morcha and a user named 'Tractor2Twitter' have been restricted. While the accounts on the social media site remained restricted in India for the whole day, they were restored slowly by Twitter around late evening.Swaraj Abhiyan leader Yogendra Yadav alleged the action against the Twitter account was taken on the "request of government authorities". The Union government, Yadav said, has "reduced the allocation to agriculture sector" in this budget.This comes as the government claims that they have introduced a slew of measures to aid the agricultural sector. During her budget speech, Sitharaman said that there is a steady increase in the procurement of wheat, rice, pulses from farmers. The finance minister also said that the Minimum Support Price (MSP) regime has undergone a sea change to ensure the price that is at least 1.5 times the cost of production across all commodities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-announce-nationwide-agitation-on-feb-6-issue-calls-to-block-roads-101612190684503.html
01-02-2021||India||Farmers' protest: A fortress in making in Ghazipur||With parked DTC buses sealing main entry points, multi-layered security arrangements and check points -- both by police and farmers' union volunteers -- Ghazipur, the new focal point of the ongoing farmers' agitation, witnessed heightened restrictions on Monday.The Delhi-UP border site, which is galvanising farmers from Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand days after BKU leader Rakesh Tikait's emotional appeal, is a fortress in the making with security arrangements being amplified with every passing day.Concertina wires -- a new addition in at least three points -- boulders in between the barriers. No major road is open for movement of vehicles and people which is proving to be a growing problem for many passing the stretch.Rakesh Tikait, the star farmer leader, while addressing a packed crowd from the main stage also mentioned the newly put barbed wires in his speech."They (the administration) have put these barbed wires, not us. They are not allowing people to come to Delhi. We are not the one blocking the roads. If we block roads, they ask us to vacate, but no action is taken when the same is done by these security forces," he said to a cheering crowd.Also Read | Farm laws: Agriculture minister has a suggestion and a warning for oppositionOn Wednesday night, the atmosphere was tense at Ghazipur. The Ghaziabad administration had issued an "ultimatum" to the protesters to vacate a stretch of the Delhi-Meerut expressway they were occupying as the January 26 clashes painted a not-so-peaceful picture of the peasant community.As security presence at the site escalated, fears grew that the protesters would be forcibly evicted, but the emotional outburst of Rakesh Tikait saved the day -- and possibly the whole movement -- and people in tens of thousands started converging at the protest site in support of the agitation.Many commuters complained that the heightened security measures and new restrictions on routes day after day are affecting their daily commute."Since December we were facing problems with this stretch, but the security and restrictions has been grown by leaps and bounds. The interior routes which they have not barricaded -- as of yet -- are not only congested but are in a pathetic condition, making them too dangerous to travel on," said Navdeep Kumar, a regular commuter of the National Highway-24.To keep at bay an unruly crowd and any possible plot to disturb the peaceful movement, the volunteers have taken the matter into their own hands. They are maintaining high vigil in the area by setting up multiple-check points."We don't allow locals to enter without any rhyme or reason. Even if you are media, you have to show your id-card for entry. The drill is applied round the clock," said a volunteer, standing next to a make-shift checkpoint.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-a-fortress-in-making-in-ghazipur-101612191922016.html
01-02-2021||India||Govt orders probe by Revenue Commissioner into Shivamogga blast; Congress stages walkout||The Karnataka government on Monday asserted that no illegal quarrying or mining would be allowed in the state and said the Revenue Commissioner will probe the blast near Shivamogga, which killed six people, even as the opposition staged a walkout, demanding a judicial probe. As soon as Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai made the announcement about the probe and that police too are investigating it, Leader of the opposition Siddaramaiah demanded that a judicial commission, headed by a sitting High Court judge, be constituted, "for the truth to come out." As his demand was not acceded to, the LoP said the government's conduct was creating suspicion that it was trying to protect someone, and staged a walkout from the assembly along with other Congress legislators. Six people were killed in the powerful explosion of a truckload of gelatin sticks at a stone crushing unit in Shivamogga district on January 21. Replying on behalf of the government to the incident and the probe relating to it as Siddaramaiah had raised the issue, Bommai admitted that illegal quarrying or mining has been going on for some years now under successive governments. He said there was a nexus between landholders, quarry land holders,explosive suppliers and some officials,leading to such illegal activities and stressed the need to break it and also spoke of steps like increasing fine and jail term for breaking rules and making 'mineral protection force' effective. On the Shivamogga incident, Bommai said officials had given the owners license for crushing despite knowing that illegal mining or quarrying was taking place at the siteand cases were booked against them earlier. Explosive materials were brought in from Andhra Pradesh, he said "it looks like no rules or regulations or permit conditions had been followed....investigation is going on and merciless action will be taken against all those responsible." On Siddaramaiah's demand that those guilty must be booked under Section 302 of IPC for murder, instead of Section 304 (culpable homicide), he said it can be done in due course, based on the investigation "The government has taken this case very seriously, especially transportation and storage of large quantities of explosive. Reports suggest it was about 1,350 kg,but only a probe can ascertain it," he said, adding control on explosives is necessary to check illegal mining As part of the probe police have seized such materials in Anantapur district of Andhra Pradesh, Bommai said. Expressing worry about large quantity of gelatin sticks transported and its outcome had it reached the hands of anti- socials or terrorists, he said steps were on for "excessive control" of explosives, as he noted that cases were booked against those involved under the stringent explosives act. He said illegal quarrying or mining would be stopped in Karnataka and only those with licenses will be allowed to function. "It has been decided that the probe will be by the Revenue Commissioner after the opposition leader and others had said the Deputy Commissioner (of Shivamogga) should not probe as he had not acted against such illegal activities," Bommai added. Unhappy with his response, the LoP cited reports of involvement of politicians and officials in illegal quarrying or mining and urged the government to get a survey done across the state to identify those that are illegal. "Take strong measures to stop it, take strict action against those involved, especially errant officials,"he said, as he noted that an independent agency should inquire into the incident and it was not possible for the Revenue Commissioner to do so as summons and warrants have to be issued with the probe stretching to neighboring Andhra Pradesh. "If it is not inquired into by a sitting high court judge, the truth will not come out...it will seem as though the government was trying to protect someone," he said as he led Congress MLAs in staging a walkout. Earlier,Siddaramaiah while pointing to reports of large- scale illegal quarrying in the state, especially Shivamogga, urged the government to halt them at once as he also voiced concern over transportation of large quantities of explosives. "In the Pulwama blast it is said that about 250 kg explosives were used, whereas reports of the blast in Shivamogga said it was 1,350 kg." He demanded a criminal case be registered against all errant officials and those who supported illegal activity. In the Legislative Council too, the Congress made a similar demand for the probe, with the opposition leader S R Patil saying the blast pointed to 'serious lapses' and made a comparison to the quantity used Pulwama and in Shivamogga. He said if illegal mining and unlawful transportation of explosives cannot be controlled by the Deputy Commissioner and Superintendent of Police of Shivamogga even in the CM's home district, one wondered what the situation would be in the rest of the state. BJP MLC Ayanur Manjunath alleged that those who died were not labourers, but some people engaged to transport the explosives and were part of the nexus. The leader of the house Kota Srinivas Poojary said the CM has assured stringent action against the illegalities. The quarry owner and two of his associates have so far been arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-orders-probe-by-revenue-commissioner-into-shivamogga-blast-congress-stages-walkout-101612190837746.html
01-02-2021||India||Patna HC raps Bihar govt for slow progress in cases of gang rapes of minors||The Patna high court has rapped the Bihar government on the knuckles for its slackness in two recent cases of gang rape of minors in Muzaffarpur and Madubani districts and the murder of one of them and attempts by the perpetrators to destroy evidence of the crime.Acting on an email complaint from child protection specialist of Unicef, Mansoor Qadri, a division bench of the court headed by Chief Justice Sanjay Karol on January 27 ordered for converting the complaint into a public interest litigation (PIL) and asked the authorities to file their reply within a week.A 16-year girl was allegedly raped by four men and burnt alive in Sahebganj area of Muzaffapur on January 11. Another girl of the same age, who is hearing and speech impaired was gang raped on January 12 and her eyes were severely damaged after the rapists shoved a sharp wooden object. Moved by the manner in which the criminals raped the minors and tried to destroy the evidence, Qadri had sent an email to the Chairperson, Patna High Court Committee of Juvenile Justice and POCSO on January 15.“…the State agency appears to have adopted a very casual approach and has not shown the urgency, unlike the urgency shown in the murder of IndiGo manager (Rupesh Kumar Singh) in Patna,” the court remarked, asking the officials concerned to file a reply on this matter while fixing February 10 as the next date of hearing.The division bench noted that “in both the cases, the crime has become more vicious, as the perpetrators not only committed the crime, but also attempted to destroy all the evidence by burning to death one of the victims and snatching away the vision of the second survivor. The manner, in which the crimes have been committed against the minor girls, is shocking.”“Considering the gravity of the offence and ever-increasing incidents of violence against young girls of Bihar, we take cognizance of the e-mail of Qadri and the same may be treated as a writ petition. Issue notice to all the respondents and are directed to submit a report within a week,” the order said.The order further stated that “It is not a mere matter of violation of an ordinary right of a person, but the violation of the fundamental rights. Rape is an offence, which is violative of the fundamental right of a person guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution. Rape is a crime not only against the person of a woman, it is a crime against the entire society.”Prakirtita Sharma has been appointed as Amicus Curiae in this case.Sub-divisional police officer (SDPO), Saraiya, Rajesh Kumar Sharma, under whose jurisdiction the minor was gang raped and burnt alive, refused to disclose the progress made by the police in this case. However, a senior officer of Harlakhi police station of Madhubani said that three persons had been arrested in connection with rape and attempt to blind the girl in the district.Leaders of opposition parties including RJD’s Tejashwi Prasad Yadav and Prem Chandra Mishra of the Congress had cornered chief minister Nitish Kumar over the rapes and asked him to quit if he was feeling too tired and exhausted to protect young girls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/patna-hc-raps-bihar-govt-for-slow-progress-in-cases-of-gang-rapes-of-minors-101612190608582.html
01-02-2021||India||To prep for Char Dham yatra, Uttarakhand turns old buses into mobile shelters||The Uttarakhand government has started preparing for this year's Char Dham yatra with unique attractions for tourists and pilgrims.On the route to the Char Dham shrines, the Garhwal Mandal Vikas Nigam is working on starting mobile shelters for tourists or pilgrims visiting the state.Ashish Chauhan, managing director of Garhwal Mandal Vikas Nigam (GMVN) said, “We had a few buses with us which we thought of utilising as mobile night shelters to give tourists a better experience. The buses have all facilities like beds, pantry, air conditioning, washrooms, sitting area. We are also providing tents along with the bus, for tourists who want to camp.”The buses which can accommodate three to four people will be run by drivers of the department and will have to stop near GMVN tourist rest houses, “for safety of the tourists”.“The mobile shelters will have to stop near GMVN rest houses as that will ensure safety of both our tourists and the vehicle. During the stay, the shelters will get electricity connection from the rest house and the facility to refill the inbuilt water tank,” added Chauhan.He further said that the mobile night shelter initiative is likely to start before the Tehri Lake Festival scheduled to be held on February 16-17.In a similar initiative to attract tourists, GMVN is also soon going to start a restaurant in Dhanaulti, where old ambassador cars have been used for seating.“The department had some old ambassador cars which would have gone to scrap. We thought that instead of selling them, the cars can be used to generate long term earnings for the department and started the initiative to use the old as restaurant seats. The restaurant will be started in Dhanaulti,” said Chauhan.He further said that GMVN has also started an open air restaurant in Mussoorie, which is getting positive feedback from tourists.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/to-prep-for-char-dham-yatra-uttarakhand-turns-old-buses-into-mobile-shelters-101612191132305.html
01-02-2021||India||R-Day violence: Punjab Congress leaders raise concerns over 'missing' youths with Amit Shah||Congress MP Manish Tewari, and Punjab ministers Sukhjinder Randhawa and Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria met Home Minister Amit Shah in the Parliament House on Monday to trace the whereabouts of people "missing" since January 26 in the national capital during farmers' tractor parade.The Punjab leaders and MLA Raj Kumar Chhabbewal expressed their concerns over the "missing youths" who were detained by the Delhi Police after the incident, and they demanded their early release.The Punjab government later provided details of 120 people from the state who have been arrested by Delhi police in various cases registered during the tractor parade.Randhawa and Sarkaria later said that in order to fight the legal cases of people arrested by the Delhi Police, the Punjab government has formed a team of 40 advocates who have already started their work.Also Read | Farm laws: Agriculture minister has a suggestion and a warning for oppositionHe said the advocates would meet the arrested persons and their families and fight the legal battle to provide justice to these persons free of cost.The ministers said at a press conference that they have also appealed to the central government for taking a lenient view towards those arrested.During the meeting, Shah stated that the list of arrested persons has been uploaded on the Home Ministry's website and if the state government provided any other list of missing persons, the central government would leave no stone unturned to find the whereabouts of such persons, Randhawa said.On the deadlock between the Centre and farmer unions over farm laws, Randhawa said the home minister stated that the central government is ready for talks and waiting for farmers' response in this regard."The chief minister has called an all-party meeting on February 2 to evolve a consensus on the way forward on the issue of farm laws and the farmer's agitation in the light of the recent developments in Delhi," the minister said.The Delhi Police has said it filed over 35 cases and arrested more than 80 people in connection with the violence and vandalism in the national capital during a tractor parade on January 26 by the farmers protesting against the three new central agriculture laws.Concerns have been raised in Punjab over some of the youths having gone "missing" after they were protesting at the Singhu border and having participated in the agitations at the Red Fort on Republic Day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rday-violence-punjab-cong-leaders-raise-missing-youths-issue-with-shah-101612190222619.html
01-02-2021||India||‘Anti-farmer, anti-people and anti-country’: Bengal CM Mamata on Budget 2021||The tussle between the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) and its main challenger in the coming assembly polls, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), intensified on Monday after Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced important road infrastructure projects for Bengal and a ₹1000 crore package for tea-garden workers in the state and Assam.Chief minister Mamata Banerjee branded the budget as “anti-farmer, anti-people and anti-country” during a trip to north Bengal where the BJP bagged seven of the region’s eight Lok Sabha seats in 2019. Union home minster Amit Shah, on the other hand tweeted in Bengali that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had released a grant of ₹25,000 crore for “development of the state and convenience of its people” and ₹1000 crore for the “welfare of tea garden workers”.Among the salient points of the Union budget was the allocation of ₹25,000 crore for road infrastructure development and renovation of roads connecting Kolkata to Siliguri, the biggest town in north Bengal.Sitharaman also announced that 675 km of roadway will be developed and there will be freight corridors between Kharagpur in West Midnapore district and Vijayawada and between Dankuni in Hooghly district and Gomo in Bihar. She also announced an East-West freight corridor in Bengal.Banerjee arrived in Siliguri shortly after the budget speech ended and headed for a cultural event held by the state government. Her speech, however, was marked by political rhetoric.“This is an anti-farmer, anti-people, anti-country budget. They are selling all PSUs, BSNL, airports and railways. They are also selling banks and 74% of Life Insurance Corporation of India. Be very careful. You keep your money in banks. Some day you may hear that all your money is gone,” Banerjee told the audience.The TMC chief took a swipe at the Centre on the issue of infrastructure, saying the state government has done enough and is capable of taking care of its roads.“We do not need money to build roads. Give this money to the farmers and withdraw the farms laws. The government is forgiving the loans of some billionaires. For the BJP, these people are Ma Laxmi (Hindu Goddess of wealth) while poor people get nothing. They don’t even buy railway tickets for migrant workers but those who steal millions are flown to Delhi in chartered planes,” said Banerjee.Her remark was directly targeted at her former minister Rajib Banerjee, three sitting MLAs and a former legislator who flew to Delhi in a chartered plane on Saturday to join the BJP at Shah’s residence.“I will not comment on the chief minister’s statement,” said Banerjee after attending his first meeting at a BJP office in Howrah district from where he was elected twice.Banerjee also took on the Centre for announcing a package for tea-garden workers.“Why announce another ₹1000 crore when you have not kept your old promises? I have many plans for north Bengal. New industries will be set up here. You (voters) defeated me in north Bengal in the Lok Sabha. I don’t feel any shame because I know you will compensate me. Did those BJP MPs do anything for you? They did nothing. This time please vote for the TMC,” Banerjee said.In a surprise move, she announced a prize of ₹2 lakh for the dancers who took part in Monday’s cultural event.Addressing a virtual press conference, Bengal finance minister Amit Mitra said, “The only clarity in the budget is on how to sell the country’s resources. During the Covid-19 pandemic the rich became richer. The middle class don’t appear in the budget and the poor are in bad shape.”BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya dismissed the allegations. “I thank the Prime Minister for the development packages. He has paved the path for building Sonar Bangla (golden Bengal),” he said.People in the local tea industry welcomed the welfare package but said they were disappointed as well.B K Saria, chairman of the Darjeeling Tea Association, said “We are happy that the Centre has announced a ₹1000 crore package for welfare of tea-garden workers. But we are disappointed that it has not announced anything for the industry. It would have been appreciated had they announced something for the welfare of the companies.”P K Bhattacharjee, secretary general of Tea Association of India, said, “We welcome the provision for a special scheme for women and children in the tea gardens of Assam and West Bengal. Women comprise more than 50% of the workforce. The impact of the proposed minimum wages for all categories of workers has to be examined once the wages are notified.”(With inputs from Siliguri).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/antifarmer-anti-people-and-anti-country-bengal-cm-mamata-on-budget-2021-101612190040388.html
01-02-2021||India||PM Modi pledges to punish perpetrators of blast near Israeli embassy||Prime Minister Narendra Modi condemned the recent terror attack near the Israeli embassy in New Delhi and pledged to punish the perpetrators during a phone conversation with his Israeli counterpart Benjamin Netanyahu on Monday. A low intensity explosive device went off outside the Israeli embassy on January 29, damaging several vehicles. The two countries are working together to investigate the incident and external affairs minister S Jaishankar had spoken to his Israeli counterpart Gabi Ashkenazi soon after the blast. Modi “conveyed his strong condemnation of the terror attack near the Israeli embassy” and assured Netanyahu that India “accords the highest importance to the safety and security of Israeli diplomats and premises and would deploy all its resources to find and punish the perpetrators”, the external affairs ministry said. Also Read: NIA may take over probe into blast outside Israeli embassy in DelhiBoth leaders expressed satisfaction at the “close coordination between Indian and Israeli security agencies in this context”. Modi and Netanyahu also briefed each other on the progress in the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic in their countries and discussed possibilities for further collaboration in this area, including the production and supply of vaccines to Israel and the “mutual recognition of certificates of vaccination”, the Israeli prime minister’s office said on Twitter. Netanyahu thanked Modi for the Indian government’s efforts to safeguard Israeli representatives in the aftermath of the terrorist event near the Israeli embassy, according to tweets. Modi noted India is “committed to the security of our people and added that India would continue to cooperate with Israel in the fight against terrorism”, the Israeli prime minister’s office tweeted. Netanyahu also congratulated Modi on the production of vaccines and the start of vaccinations in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-pledges-to-punish-perpetrators-of-blast-near-israeli-embassy-101612189528774.html
01-02-2021||India||Magisterial probe ordered into PNG pipeline blast in Uttarakhand’s Haridwar||A magisterial probe has been ordered into a blast that took place in suburban Jwalapur area of Haridwar district on Sunday evening in an underground pipeline of the newly-laid Piped Natural Gas (PNG) facility.Leakage from the underground pipeline was reported by nearby residents of Jurs Country adjacent to a petrol pump and they informed the local administration about it.Later, a minor blast occurred at the site though no damage to life and nearby buildings was reported. Prima facie the incident occurred due to digging work being done by JCB in a nearby plot which had led to the pipeline being damaged.Sub-divisional magistrate of Haridwar Gopal Singh Chauhan and Jwalapur police station in-charge Praveen Singh Koshyari reached the spot after the minor blast and monitored the fire dousing operation.District magistrate, Haridwar, C Ravi Shankar has ordered a magisterial probe into the case appointing a sun divisional magistrate as the investigating officer.“As this is the second such blast in a span of six months in the PNG underground pipeline network in the city periphery it's a serious matter. A magisterial probe has been ordered under a sub-divisional magistrate who will submit the report in a short time. Strict legal action and the first information report will be filed against those found guilty in the probe,” said DM C Ravi Shankar.Locals also pointed to a JCB machine carrying out digging work at the site where the blast occurred. The machine had been there for the past couple of days for construction work on a vacant plot.SDM Gopal Singh Chauhan said that directives have been given to Gas Authority of India officials to ensure adequate security setup of the underground pipeline and to put up information and warning signboards so that prior permission and information is sought from the respective area by GAIL officials for carrying out digging work near the pipeline.Earlier also in July last year, flames had erupted from the pipeline stretch at the city's posh Vivek Vihar colony.Jwalapur is the first colony in Haridwar covered with a PNG underground set up with the first connection established in January and in the coming months the network will cover the whole area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/magisterial-probe-ordered-into-png-pipeline-blast-in-uttarakhand-s-haridwar-101612187309052.html
01-02-2021||India||Rashtrapati Bhavan to reopen for public from February 6||The Rashtrapati Bhavan will re-open for visitors from Saturday, nearly 11 months after it was closed due to the COVID-19 pandemic, according to an official statement issued on Monday.It will be open on Saturdays and Sundays (except on government holidays), the statement said.Visitors can book their slots online on the website https://presidentofindia.nic.in or https://rashtrapatisachivalaya.gov.in/, said the statement issued by the Rashtrapati Bhavan.“Visit to Rashtrapati Bhavan, which was closed due to Covid-19 since March 13, 2020, will re-open from this Saturday i.e. February 6, 2021 for the public,” it said.As earlier, nominal registration charges of ₹50 per visitor will be levied.To maintain social distancing norms, three pre-booked time slots at 1030 hrs, 1230 hrs and 1430 hrs have been fixed with a maximum limit of 25 visitors per slot, the statement said.During the tour, visitors will have to follow COVID protocols such as wearing masks, maintaining social distance etc., it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rashtrapati-bhavan-to-reopen-for-public-from-february-6-101612188186982.html
01-02-2021||India||Farm laws: Agriculture minister has a suggestion and a warning for opposition||Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Monday urged opposition parties to not indulge in politics over the three farm laws, which have triggered protests by farmers who have been camping at Delhi borders for more than two months now. Several political parties announced to boycott the laws during the Budget Session of Parliament."I appeal to the political parties to not engage in politics every time. Those who play politics on every matter meet the same fate as that of opposing parties presently,” Tomar said, according to news agency ANI.Also Read | Budget silent on 'agricultural unrest', ignores 'entire north India': Punjab FMMany political parties, including the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), Congress, Trinamool Congress and the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) have announced to boycott the farm laws and support the farmers' agitation. Before this, as many as 16 political parties boycotted President Ram Nath Kovind's address to both the Houses of Parliament over the farm legislation. The leaders had also lashed out at the ruling-Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), calling it arrogant, adamant and undemocratic.NCP chief Sharad Pawar criticised the latest reforms in series of tweets. A former agriculture minister, Pawar said that the new laws will adversely affect the Minimum Support Price (MSP) and it will also weaken the mandi system. The criticism was rejected by Tomar as he said that Pawar is not bringing out "correct facts" and is "misinformed" about the laws.Tends of thousands of farmers camping at Delhi's borders are demanding a repeal of the laws and a legal guarantee for minimum support price (MSP) for the procurement of their crops. Agitating farmers claim that the new laws will weaken the MSP system, despite the Centre seeking to assure them in vain that the MSP system was here to stay and the new laws would only provide more options for farmers to sell their produce.The government has held several rounds of talks with the leaders of the farmers but has failed to bring any resolution to the matter so far.Earlier in the day, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said the government is ready for talks with the protesting farmers as it is the "only solution." Sitharaman made the comments while responding to a question during the post-budget press briefing. "We can understand why farmers are sitting at the border. If any farmer has any question, agriculture minister (Narendra Singh Tomar) has never denied opportunities for talk," Sitharaman said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-laws-agriculture-minister-tomar-has-a-suggestion-for-oppn-parties-delivers-a-warning-101612187592653.html
01-02-2021||India||39 BJP workers arrested for attacking TRS MLA's house in Telangana’s Warrangal||Police in Telangana’s Warrangal arrested 39 Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers on Monday for allegedly attacking the residence of Telangana Rashtra Samithi lawmaker Challa Dharma Reddy on Sunday evening.The police produced them in a local court which sent them to 14-day judicial custody. They were shifted to Warangal central jail in the afternoon. Another 14 BJP workers who were also allegedly involved in the attack on the MLA’s residence are absconding, the police said.The BJP workers led by the party’s Warangal (urban) district unit president Rao Padma attacked Reddy’s residence at Hunter Road in Hanamkonda, in protest against the latter’s comments alleging that the BJP leaders were collecting huge funds in the name of construction of the Ram temple at Ayodhya without showing any accounts and were swindling the money.The BJP workers pelted stones and eggs at the MLA’s residence and damaged window panes, flower pots and other properties on the premises. The police rushed to the spot and prevented the BJP workers from barging inside. They took the mob into custody and shifted them to Subedari police station.The ruling TRS retaliated and attacked the BJP party office. TRS workers pelted stones at the office and pulled down flex boards and banners. They also pelted stones on the vehicles of the local BJP leaders, before they were dispersed by the police. Later in the night, a large number of TRS workers also attacked the houses of BJP district unit vice-president K Ranjith and BJYM leader Apurupa Sayee.On Monday, the local unit of the TRS gave a call for shutdown of Parkal town in protest against the attack on the MLA’s residence. They blocked the roads by burning tyres and squatted to stage a dharna, bringing the traffic to a grinding halt for several hours.TRS working president K T Rama Rao, in a late-night statement, condemned the attack of the BJP workers on the MLA’s residence. “The BJP should remember that the TRS was born out of a political movement to achieve separate statehood to Telangana. If the BJP wants to resort to such violence, they must remember that TRS too has the power, strength and the force to protect its cadre,” he said.BJP legislator M Raghunandan Rao accused KTR of instigating the TRS cadres to attack the offices and residences of BJP leaders. “He is not going to achieve anything by engineering attacks on the political rivals. If the BJP cadres retaliate, the state will be in flames,” he warned.Rao said mobilising funds for the Ram temple was not like collecting party funds. “The people were voluntarily coming forward to donate funds for the construction of Ram temple at Ayodhya,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/39-bjp-workers-arrested-for-attacking-trs-mla-s-house-in-telangana-s-warrangal-101612186328867.html
01-02-2021||India||Tamil Nadu: Sasikala to file curative petition for AIADMK’s name and symbol||In her effort to reclaim the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) which expelled her, VK Sasikala a close aide of former chief minister J Jayalalithaa, will look for legal recourse challenging the election commission’s (EC) 2017 order allotting the party name and the iconic two leaves symbol to the present AIADMK government. “We will file a curative petition soon,” said her lawyer Raja Senthoor Pandian. “We haven’t filed a case so far due to the pandemic and we had expected her to be released by August on remission. So we thought of filing it once she is out. We have to discuss.” The EC on November 23, 2017, allotted the chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami-led government with the symbol after freezing it briefly when the two factions vied for it following Jayalalithaa’s death in December 2016. Sasikala and her nephew TTV Dhinakaran challenged this in the Delhi high court, which, in 2019, upheld the EC order. The Supreme Court also dismissed two following petitions—in March 2019 and in July 2020.Also Read: TN poll battle heats up as Sasikala leaves hospitalSasikala will return to Chennai after completing a week’s quarantine in Bengaluru. On Sunday, she was discharged from the city’s Victoria Hospital where she was treated for a severe Covid-19 infection. Sending out her first political message, Sasikala left the hospital in a car bearing the AIADMK flag. She was hospitalised a week before her release from prison on January 27 in the disproportionate assets case where Jayalalithaa was also accused. The AIADMK, which expelled Sasikala and Dhinakaran on September 12, 2017, have condemned her for using the flag, terming it illegal. Law minister CV Shunmugam warned of legal action against “Sasikala or anyone” who is not a member of the party and “misuses the flag”. But Dinakaran has justified her move saying that she is the party’s general secretary. Dinakaran, an independent MLA, floated the Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK) with a faction of Sasikala’s supporters who want her to unite them by reclaiming the AIADMK. Palaniswami, who is the chief ministerial candidate in the AIADMK-led NDA alliance which goes to polls in April-May, has made clear that Sasikala will not be taken back. Sasikala briefly held the reins of the party after Jayalalithaa’s death amidst a power struggle with loyalist-turned-rebel O Paneerselvam. She handpicked Palaniswami as chief minister before surrendering in prison but he later united with Paneerselvam. After ousting her, the AIADMK created new posts in their by-laws with Paneerselvam as coordinator and Palaniswami as joint coordinator and Jayalalithaa as the “eternal general secretary”. Sasikala has challenged this matter which is pending in the Madras high court. The AIADMK has expelled party functionaries who put up posters welcoming Sasikala after her release. “She may gain some supporters but the AIADMK status quo will continue,” says political analyst Ravindran Duraisamy. “The present AIADMK has contested the 2019 parliamentary elections and by-elections on the symbol and name without any hindrance. It’s a settled matter.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-sasikala-to-file-curative-petition-for-aiadmk-s-name-and-symbol-101612186889295.html
01-02-2021||India||‘Thank you’: PM Netanyahu phones PM Modi on security of Israeli diplomats||Israel’s Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu on Monday spoke to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and thanked him for keeping the country's diplomats safe after a minor explosion took place near the Israeli embassy in New Delhi last week. The blast caused by a "very low-intensity improvised device" last Friday had shattered the windscreens of three cars parked in the area and no one was injured."Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu spoke today by telephone with Indian Prime Minister @narendramodi and thanked him for his government's efforts to safeguard Israeli representatives in the aftermath of the terrorist event near the Israeli Embassy in India," a tweet from Israeli PM's Twitter account said.Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu spoke today by telephone with Indian Prime Minister @narendramodi and thanked him for his government's efforts to safeguard Israeli representatives in the aftermath of the terrorist event near the Israeli Embassy in India.Officials investigating the IED blast outside the Israeli embassy have said their probe is still not conclusive but the needle of suspicion is pointing towards Iran with local involvement. The blast came on the anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic ties between India and Israel on January 29, 1992,The two leaders also spoke about the extensive coronavirus vaccination drives launched in their countries to combat the viral disease. The two leaders discussed possible cooperation in the production and supply of vaccines to Israel and the mutual recognition of certificates of vaccination. “Prime Minister Netanyahu congratulated Indian Prime Minister Modi on the production of vaccines in his country and the start of the vaccines operation there. The latter congratulated Prime Minister Netanyahu on the successful vaccines operation in Israel," another tweet said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/israel-embassy-blast-netanyahu-talks-to-pm-modi-thanks-for-govt-s-efforts-101612185071399.html
01-02-2021||India||Covid-19 casualties in Jammu and Kashmir fall 71% in January||The Covid-19 data of Jammu and Kashmir since March 2020 reveals that the scourge of the disease in the union territory had waned the most in January in the past eight monthsA senior health official said that the disease could even be wiped out by the end of February in J-K.The union territory reported 53 deaths and 3,535 coronavirus infections in January, a sharp decline from 189 deaths and 10,747 cases in December. In terms of percentage, the month saw 71% dip in deaths and 67% decline in cases in comparison to December.In the past seven months it was for the first time that the monthly death count has gone below one hundred. Last time it was in the month of June, when the Covid cases were slowly increasing from mid-March, that Jammu and Kashmir had recorded 73 deaths and 5,051 cases.“We are quite in control of the disease. The daily numbers have gone down considerably. Quite often we are now showing zero deaths,” said Kashmir's health department director Samir Mattoo.In comparison to September when the viral cases had peaked to 37,372 and deaths to 478 in the region, the month of January has registered a fall of 88% in Covid related deaths and 80% percent in infectionsIn November 216 people lost their lives to the virus, 293 in October, 478 in September, 326 in August, 279 in July and 73 in June.January also recorded the lowest average daily cases of Covid-19 infections since June. While January averaged 114 coronavirus cases daily, the number was 346 in December, 514 in November, 632 in October, 1,245 in September, 559 in August, 414 in July and 168 in June.On an average less than two daily deaths were recorded in January, six in December, seven in November while 10 were reported in October and 16 in September.The total active cases in J-K till February 1 have dropped to 709 which account for 0.56 % of the overall tally of 1,24,550 cases. That means just half per cent of the total cases are now active.Mattoo said that they are expecting the declining trend to continue. “I believe by the end of February we would have wiped out the disease,” he said.A total of 1, 21,905 people have recovered from the disease while 1,936 people have lost their lives which translate to 1.55% of the total cases. A total of 1,215 people have succumbed to the disease in Kashmir and 721 in Jammu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-casualties-in-jammu-and-kashmir-fall-71-in-january-101612184702700.html
01-02-2021||India||India spent ₹20,776 crore on emergency defence purchase amid border row||India spent ₹20,776 crore on the emergency purchase of weapons and systems to beef up its military capabilities to deal with new security challenges in the midst of a lingering border dispute with China in eastern Ladakh, where both armies have deployed a total of 100,000 soldiers and advanced weaponry in their forward and depth areas, Budget documents showed on Monday.The money spent on building capabilities was over and above the budget allocation for modernisation last year. India earmarked ₹1.13 lakh crore as capital expenditure in Budget 2020-21 but revised estimates in the new budget, presented in Parliament by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, show the military ended up spending ₹1.34 lakh crore on modernisation.The border conflict with China forced India to speed up the purchase of smart air-to-ground weapons, missiles, rockets, air defence systems, GPS-guided artillery ammunition, tank ammunition and assault rifles. The United States, Russia, France and Israel are among the countries from which India imported weaponry last year.The increase in capital expenditure -- from ₹1.13 lakh crore last year to ₹1.35 lakh crore -- was one of the highlights of Budget 2021-22. It has gone up by almost 19% at a time when India is planning to place orders for new fighter jets, medium transport aircraft, basic trainer aircraft, light combat helicopters, surface-to-air missiles and loitering weapons systems.The allocation under the capital head has been significantly increased, the defence ministry said in a statement. “The allocation represents an increase of 18.75% over FY 2020-21 and 30.62% over FY 2019-20. This is the highest ever increase in capital outlay in the last 15 years,” the ministry said.An 18% increase in budgetary allocation for capital procurement goes some way in recognising the urgent need of modernisation and weapon enhancement requirements of the armed forces, said Anuj Prasad, head (aerospace and defence), Cyril Amarchand Mangaldas.“Given that capital procurement expenditure for the previous year exceeded the budgetary allocation by more than ₹20,000 crore, a lot more needed to be done given the current geopolitical scenario and the glaring gaps in military preparedness,” he said.Overall, India has set aside ₹4.78 lakh crore for military spending in its budget for 2021-22, compared to last year’s ₹4.71 lakh crore --- both figures include defence pensions. This translates into an increase of 1.45%.But if defence pensions are not taken into account, this year’s military spending stands at ₹3.62 lakh crore, compared to ₹3.37 lakh crore last year --- an increase of 7.3%. Budget documents show that the government’s defence pension bill will be lower than last year – down from ₹1.33 lakh crore to ₹1.15 lakh crore. Last year it was higher as ₹18,000 crore was paid out as pension arrears, officials said.Briefing reporters, Sitharaman said the government agreed in-principle to provide a non-lapsable fund for defence for the first time in line with a recommendation made by the 15th Finance Commission. This will help military modernisation as unspent funds will not have to be returned at the end of the year.This year’s allocation includes ₹2.12 lakh crore for revenue expenditure, compared to ₹2.09 lakh crore last year.This year’s budget (excluding pensions) is a 1.62% of the country’s gross domestic product. If defence pensions in the budget are taken into account, the budget accounts for 2.14% of the GDP.The defence budget (excluding pensions) is 10.4% of the government’s total expenditure for 2021-22. If pensions are counted, it is 13.72% of the total expenditure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-spent-rs-20-776-crore-on-emergency-defence-purchase-amid-border-row-101612182594546.html
01-02-2021||India||‘Uttarakhand me bhi Kejriwal’: AAP’s massive membership drive for 2022 polls||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) senior leader and deputy chief minister of Delhi on Monday launched a mass outreach campaign named "Uttarakhand me bhi Kejriwal (Kejriwal in Uttarakhand too)" to prepare for the 2022 assembly polls in the stateDuring the event, Sisodia flagged off 70 vans with five party workers each. The vans will travel to each of the 70 constituencies and AAP members will hold a total of 6,500 public meetings in the next 45 days with a target to add one lakh new party members in the state, Sisodia said."The state has gone into the poll mode as only about a year is left for the next assembly elections. Considering that, we have launched this massive mass outreach programme to visit every village of the state and hold public meetings so as to add at least one lakh new party members," Sisodia said while launching the campaign.Each van is earmarked for one constituency.“They will go among the public and spread the message of Kejriwal model of governance that Uttarakhand needs good schools, government hospitals and mohalla clinics like Delhi for which can only be done by AAP," Arvind Keriwal’s deputy saidThe senior AAP leader alleged that the BJP and Congress have taken turns to exploit the state in the last 20 years while depriving its people of development."They did nothing for the people. They will be made aware of how Arvind Kejriwal brought significant changes in Delhi in just five years of his governance. The same can be done in Uttarakhand if AAP comes to power which we are sure will happen as people are taking it as a hope," said Sisodia.The ruling BJP and the opposition Congress however, shrugged off Sisodia's claims.BJP state media in-charge, Manveer Singh Chauhan said, "AAP is expert in only spreading lies and giving false hopes to people which it has been doing in Delhi. But the people of Uttarakhand are smart enough not to for their false hopes."Congress' state spokesperson Garima Dasauni termed AAP as a party that parachuted into Uttarakhand."It knows nothing about the state's demography and political scenario but claims it will win the 2022 elections which is just laughable. It has no significance in Uttarakhand which they will know in the 2022 election results," said Dasauni.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-me-bhi-kejriwal-aap-s-massive-membership-drive-for-2022-polls-101612183065720.html
01-02-2021||India||Union Budget 2021: Govt earmarks ₹2,217 crore for tackling air pollution||The Centre on Monday earmarked a sum of ₹2,217 crore for tackling air pollution in 42 urban centres, even as it shrunk the budgetary allocation for the environment ministry from the last fiscal by nearly 8% for 2021-22While it has reduced the amount allocated to the climate change action plan by ₹10 crore and to Project Tiger by ₹50 crore, the amount for National Coastal Mission has been almost doubled from ₹103 crore in the last fiscal to ₹200 crore in 2021-22.Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, in her budget speech, allocated ₹2869.93 crore for the ministry, out of which ₹470 crore were allotted to control pollution -- ₹10 crore more than the last budget.In addition to this amount, the minister also announced a sum of ₹2,217 crore for combating air pollution in 42 urban centres.“To tackle the burgeoning problem of air pollution, I propose to provide an amount of ₹2,217 crores for 42 urban centres with a million-plus population in this budget,” Sitharaman said.For the first time, a budget provision of ₹20 crore has been made for the newly formed statutory body Commission for Air Quality Management (CAQM) for the national capital region and adjoining areas.The ₹407 crore for 'Control of Pollution' includes financial assistance provided to pollution control Boards/Committees and funding to National Clean Air Programme (NCAP), launched in January 2019.In the last budget session, the climate change action plan was allotted ₹40 crore which has been reduced to ₹30 crore for the year 2021-22.The budgetary allocation for National Mission for Green India has been reduced from ₹311 crore in the last financial year to ₹290 crore this time with the national afforestation programme alone being allotted ₹235 crore, lower than last year's amount of ₹246 crore.In the area of wildlife conservation, the allocation for government-initiated projects -- Project Tiger and Project Elephant -- saw some changes, with the former getting ₹50 crore less and the other being shrunk by ₹2 crore.The allocation for Project Tiger saw a reduction of ₹100 crore in two years. From ₹350 crore allotted to it in 2019-20, it was reduced to ₹300 crore in the last fiscal, and now the allocation stands at ₹250 crore.The budget for Project Elephant, which was launched to conserve jumbos across the country, has been reduced to ₹33 crore from ₹35 crore last year.The budget for the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA), a statutory body under the ministry responsible for tiger census and conservation of wild cats, saw a minor reduction of ₹50 lakh from ₹10.5 crore to ₹10 crore.The budget for the National Coastal Mission was nearly doubled with the government allotting it ₹200 crore from ₹103 crore allotted to it last year. In 2019-20, the NCM was allotted ₹95 crore.Under the National Coastal Mission, the environment ministry is responsible for ensuring livelihood security of coastal communities, including fisher folks, conserving, protecting the coastal stretches and promoting sustainable development based on scientific principles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/union-budget-2021-govt-earmarks-rs-2-217-crore-for-tackling-air-pollution-101612182506501.html
01-02-2021||India||Tamil Nadu CM announces financial relief to farmers affected by crop loss||The Tamil Nadu government will provide ₹1,116.97 crore as input relief to about 11.43 lakh farmers across the state, anticipating central assistance, for the crop loss of the ryots due to rains in January, Chief Minister K Palaniswami said on Monday.The relief sum will be credited directly to their bank accounts, he said in a statement.Owing to the heavy rains last month, a total of 6,62,689 hectares of agricultural crops besides 18,645 hectares of horticultural crops were damaged, the chief minister said."Taking a considerate view of the farmers' plight, my government has already announced a relief higher and above the ceiling permitted by the state disaster relief fund guidelines, to the ryots affected by cyclones Nivar and Burevi," Palaniswami said.Accordingly, the input relief for rain-fed and irrigated paddy crop and other irrigated crops was enhanced to ₹20,000 from ₹13,500 per hectare.While the relief for all rain-fed crops, except rain-fed paddy, was hiked to ₹10,000 from ₹7,410 per hectare, the relief for the perennial crops was increased to ₹25,000 from ₹18,000 per hectare.He informed that a Central team will visit Tamil Nadu again from February 3-5 to assess the extent of crop loss of farmers.Listing out the measures launched by his government to mitigate the conditions of the farmers, Palaniswami said shortly after cyclone Nivar made a landfall near Puducherry on November 25 and 26 last year, Tamil Nadu was hit by the Burevi storm even as relief and rehabilitation activities were on."Due to the precautionary measures taken by my government, human casualties and damage to livestock during Nivar and Burevi storms were largely averted. However, both Nivar and Burevi cyclones caused severe damage to power infrastructure, while roads in many parts of the state were breached or damaged. Further, agricultural and horticultural crops too were severely damaged," he said.."Normalcy returned to the storm-affected districts due to the rescue and relief operations carried out on my advice," the chief minister added.A total financial assistance of ₹3,750.38 crore including ₹641.83 crore for temporary repairs and ₹3,108.55 crore for permanent repairs will be required from the Central government.In addition, ₹485 crore has been earmarked for temporary repairs and ₹1,029 crore for permanent repair works.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-cm-announces-financial-relief-to-farmers-affected-by-crop-loss-101612179833878.html
01-02-2021||India||Nirmala Sitharaman’s budget speech underlines govt’s focus on poll-bound states||Investment for highways and Metro rails, announcement for major fishing harbours and welfare funds for tea workers—complete with a quote from Rabindranath Tagore early in the budget speech—set the ruling dispensation’s underlying focus on poll-bound states in the Union Budget for 2021-22. Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Kerala and Assam along with the Union Territory of Puducherry will face state elections in April-May this year and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is leaving no stone unturned to win Bengal and Puducherry, improve its foothold in Kerala and Tamil Nadu and retain power in Assam. All these states, especially West Bengal, the third-largest electoral state with 42 Lok Sabha seats, are the key focus of the BJP. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman quoted Tagore’s “Faith is the bird that feels the light and sings when the dawn is still dark” to emphasise how India is well-poised to be the land of promise and hope in a post-Covid world, before her budget speech rolled out schemes with an eye on poll-bound states. Also Watch: Budget: Watch farmer leader Rakesh Tikait’s reaction to FM Nirmala’s speechHer budget also proposed ₹1,000 crore for the welfare of tea workers, especially women and their children in Assam and West Bengal—a major social issue that has wider political ramifications in the BJP’s citadel of north Bengal and Assam. A total of 675km of highway works in West Bengal worth ₹25,000 crore including the upgrade of a Kolkata – Siliguri road and “further works worth over ₹34,000 crore covering more than 1,300km of National Highways” in Assam where highway works worth around ₹19,000 crore are in progress—were announced in the budget. Sitharaman also announced, “A total of 1,100km of National Highway works in Kerala at an investment of ₹65,000 crore, including a 600km section of the Mumbai-Kanyakumari corridor in Kerala” and said the Gomoh-Dankuni section of 274.3km of the Eastern Dedicated Freight Corridor will be taken up soon. She also added that “We will undertake future dedicated freight corridor projects namely East Coast corridor from Kharagpur to Vijayawada, East-West Corridor from Bhusaval to Kharagpur to Dankuni and North-South corridor from Itarsi to Vijayawada. Detailed Project Reports will be undertaken in the first phase.” Both Kharagpur and Dankuni are key towns in West Bengal. Two more road projects, running through the poll-bound states, also found mention in the speech. Sitharaman announced that Bengaluru-Chennai and Chennai-Salem expressways will be awarded and construction would start in FY 21-22. These projects will not only fill the critical gaps in connectivity in these states but also provide employment for locals. The long list of infrastructure projects also includes the Centre’s funding of 11.5km in the second phase of Kochi Metro Railway, 118.9km in Phase 2 of the Chennai Metro Railway and similar projects in Bengaluru and Nagpur. The finance minister also announced major fishing harbours in Kochi, Chennai and Bengal’s Petuaghat, apart from Visakhapatnam and Odisha’s Paradip, and proposed “substantial investments” to develop these places as modern fishing harbours and fish-landing centres. “We will also develop inland fishing harbours and fish-landing centres along the banks of rivers and waterways,” the minister announced. The BJP was able to open its account in Kerala in the last assembly polls. It has three MLAs in Bengal but in the 2019 national election, the party won 18 seats in its best tally in the largest eastern state. The BJP doesn’t have any seat in Tamil Nadu but hopes to be part of a key alliance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nirmala-sitharaman-s-budget-speech-underlines-govt-s-focus-on-poll-bound-states-101612179568331.html
01-02-2021||India||Budget will make India healthy and safe, says Uttarakhand CM||Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat hailed the Union budget, saying that a "much needed" hike in healthcare will help to make the country "healthy and safe.""I want to congratulate PM Narendra Modi and finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman for presenting such an inclusive budget amid the difficult times of Covid-19 pandemic. The major highlight was the significant hike in the budget allocated to the healthcare sector,” Rawat said at a press conference."The budget provision of ₹2.23 lakh crore for the sector would help to develop the healthcare infrastructure while realising the dream of making the country healthy and safe. This will also develop the whole medical industry including pharmaceutical and medical equipment manufacturing companies in the country. It was a much-needed step which has been taken now," he said.The CM also commended the provision of ₹27.1 lakh crore for Atmanirbhar Bharat initiative of PM Modi."This will help to make the base of our PM's much ambitious Atmanirbhar Bharat initiative which will help the country develop more while becoming self-reliant," he said.Rawat also hailed the ₹40,000 crore boost in the agriculture sector in the budget saying it will develop the agricultural infrastructure in the country."Many significant steps have been taken in the agriculture sector in the budget including connecting 1000 mandis with e-National Market, micro-irrigation fund and others. PM Modi has always been working for the welfare of farmers like no other PM in the past," he said.He also commended the move to open 100 new Sainik Schools in the country. "It is of great importance for our state which sees a large number of youth going into the army every year. It is also an important step in the education sector.""Overall, the budget is an inclusive one while focusing on health, welfare of poor and rural development. It will boost the growth of our country," said Rawat.The Opposition Congress termed the budget as a "very disappointing one."Leader of Opposition Indira Hridayesh said, "It has got no relief for the middle-class people who are suffering from price rise in all essential commodities. It comprises mainly privatisation and increasing FDI which makes only the corporates happy."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/budget-will-make-india-healthy-and-safe-says-uttarakhand-cm-101612178840877.html
01-02-2021||India||News updates from HT: FM announces 7 more measures for agri sector and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Budget 2021: FM announces 7 more measures for agri sectorFinance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday introduced nine more reforms for the agricultural sector as thousands of farmers continued their protest against the three farm laws on the borders of the national capital. Read morePM Modi says India's 'self-reliant' budget brought in exceptional circumstancesPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday lauded India's budget for 2021-2022 introduced by the finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman. He said that it has been introduced in exceptional circumstances, hinting at the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic which ravagedthe country's economy. Read moreBudget 2021: 'We have spent and we have spent', says Nirmala SitharamanFinance minister Nirmala Sitharaman talked about the guiding philosophy behind this year's budget, as she held a post-budget press conference on Monday afternoon. Read moreMyanmar's military coup: What led to the detention of Aung San Suu Kyi?Myanmar’s armed forces on Monday confirmed that they have carried a coup d’etat by detaining de-facto leader Aung San Suu Kyi and other politicians after weeks of heightened tensions owing to a disputed election. Read moreIndia vs England: Kohli, Pujara in line to break Gavaskar's age-old recordAll eyes will be on India's batsmen as they take on England in a four-match Test series at home starting February 5. Most of the big guns had a quiet year in 2020 and will be looking to make amends for it. Read moreNo country for old vehicles: All you need to know about scrappage policyFinance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday announced a voluntary vehicle scrapping policy in Union Budget 2021 where vehicles will undergo fit test. Read moreMandira Bedi on returning to gym after a year: 'It was like going dancing again'Inspiring fans towards a fitter and healthier lifestyle, Saaho actor Mandira Bedi gave a glimpse of her machine workout as she returned to the gym after March 2020. From getting her cardio done right to nailing planks effortlessly and sweating it out through aerobic exercises, Mandira served Monday motivation in new fitness video and we are inspired to hit the grind despite the drop in temperature outside. Read moreWhat does Vamika mean? Find out meanings behind Anushka Sharma-Virat Kohli's daughter, other star kids' namesAs Anushka Sharma and Virat Kohli revealed their new born daughter's name on Monday, their fans flocked to google just what Vamika means. In case you were wondering too, here's a short and simple explanation of her name. Read moreWatch: Budget: Watch farmer leader Rakesh Tikait's reaction to FM Nirmala's speechFarmer leader Rakesh Tikait, who is one of those leading the stir at the borders of the national capital, commented on the Union Budget 2021. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-fm-announces-7-more-measures-for-agri-sector-101612175926652.html
01-02-2021||India||Govt cracks down on Twitter accounts talking about ‘farmer genocide’||The Central government on Monday told Twitter to indefinitely withhold nearly 250 accounts and posts, that used the hashtag #Modiplanningfarmergenocide on the microblogging website, “to prevent an escalation of violence”, people familiar with the matter said.The Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (Meity) issued the directions under Section 69(A) of the Information Technology Act after it received directions in this regard from the Ministry of Home Affairs, the people said. “The Home ministry said that the tweets could lead to an adverse law and order situation. The accounts have been withheld to prevent an escalation of violence,” a person familiar with the matter said. Under Section 69(A) of the IT Act, the government can suspend accounts that pose a threat to public order.Action has been taken against the accounts including farmers’ collective Kisan Ekta Morcha, news portal Caravan India, actor Sushant, Prasar Bharati CEO Shashi Shekhar, activist Hansraj Meena and former Lok Sabha MP and CPI(M) leader Mohammed Salim.The withholding of Shekhar’s account was likely a mistake because he drew the government’s attention to the hashtag, an official said. “His account will soon be available again, there must have been some confusion” said an official familiar with the matter. “He was the one who drew the government’s attention to the hashtag that was being used.”Also Watch | Budget: Watch farmer leader Rakesh Tikait’s reaction to FM Nirmala’s speechWithholding an account under Twitter’s policy restricts access to posts by the person and is done in accordance with the country’s laws. This is different from a suspension, as the account can be made available again and the restrictions are limited to the “specific jurisdiction that has issued the valid legal demand or where the content has been found to violate local law”. The accounts, according to the message displayed by the site, had been withheld in India upon receipt of a legal demand. They are accessible outside the country. A second person said that Twitter was moving to ease the restrictions against the users. “These accounts are accessible outside India,” the second person said. “Legal teams are working to find feasible solutions. The accounts may be restored soon.” Officials said that the MHA conveyed to the Meity last week that the “situation had the potential to spiral”. “MHA’s agencies looked into the matter and conveyed that the situation had the potential to spiral. The accounts were tweeting about an impending farmer genocide. The government can’t allow anyone to incite violence,” an official said.In a statement on Monday, Twitter said, “Many countries have laws that may apply to Tweets and/or Twitter account content. In our continuing effort to make our services available to people everywhere, if we receive a properly scoped request from an authorized entity, it may be necessary to withhold access to certain content in a particular country from time to time. Transparency is vital to protecting freedom of expression, so we have a notice policy for withheld content. Upon receipt of requests to withhold content, we will promptly notify the affected account holders (unless we are prohibited from doing so e.g. if we receive a court order under seal).”On January 27, the microblogging website took down at least 500 accounts for “spam and platform manipulation”, a day after the farmers’ tractor rally on Republic Day turned violent in Delhi. Thousands of farmers have been camping at Delhi’s borders since November last year, seeking a repeal of the new farm laws, which they say will erode their bargaining power, weaken a system of assured prices, and leave them vulnerable to exploitation by big agri-businesses. The government has maintained that the laws aim to ease restrictions on farm trade by setting up free markets, allow traders to stockpile large stocks of food for future sales and lay down a framework for contract farming.The decision caused a political storm with the Congress condemning the government. “We condemn these anti-farmer , anti-journalist, anti-media actions taken by the government,” senior party leader P Chidambaram said at a press conference. Civil rights activists also slammed the microblogging site for stifling freedom of expression and being in cahoots with the government. Digital rights advocacy group Internet Freedom Foundation (IFF) tweeted that decision was taken under the “opaque” IT Act. “Reports suggest that a large number of Twitter accounts which were sharing information about the farmers’ protests have been blocked by Meity under the opaque Section 69(A) of the Information Technology Act,” IFF said. “Section 69(A) and the IT Blocking Rules prevent intermediaries like Twitter from disclosing any information about blocking of an account or tweet. The confidentiality requirement present under Rule 16 of the IT Blocking Rules creates a bizarre situation where citizens have the right to challenge blocking of online content, but they are unable to do so because they don’t have access to these legal orders.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-cracks-down-on-twitter-accounts-talking-about-farmer-genocide-101612177229765.html
01-02-2021||India||Centre asks Twitter to block 250 accounts for 'hateful' tweets on farm protest||The ministry of electronics and IT (MEITY) has directed Twitter to block around 250 tweets and Twitter accounts which were using offensive, inciting hashtags which have been making fake, intimidatory and provocative tweets. Reports said that this was done on the request of the Union home ministry which has also reimposed internet restrictions on border areas to prevent any escalation of law and order situation."Incitement to genocide is a grave threat to public order and therefore the Ministry of Electronics and IT ordered for blocking of these Twitter accounts & Tweets under Section 69A of the Information Technology Act. Twitter has blocked these Tweets/Twitter Accounts," news agency ANI reported quoting sources.The order from the Centre came on January 30 amid tense situation on the border where farmers have been protesting since November.On Monday, the Union home ministry extended the suspension of internet services at the farmer protest sites in Singhu, Ghazipur and Tikri borders till Tuesday night, officials said. The adjoining areas will also be affected. The suspension is effective from 11pm of January 31 to 11pm of February 2.The decision has been taken to 'maintain public safety and averting public emergency' under Temporary Suspension of Telecom Services (Public Emergency or Public Safety) Rules 2017, a home ministry official said.The suspension of internet services at the three border points and their adjoining areas was imposed at 11 pm on January 29 and was initially effective till 11 pm on January 31. Internet services were also temporary suspended in some parts of Delhi on January 26, when large scale violence was reported during the farmers' tractor rally.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-asks-twitter-to-block-250-accounts-for-inciting-tweets-on-farm-protest-101612176244072.html
01-02-2021||India||SC seeks WhatsApp reply on plea for non-sharing of UPI data with any third party||The Supreme Court Monday asked instant messaging app WhatsApp to file response on a plea seeking a direction to the RBI and the NPCI to ensure that data collected on Unified Payments Interface (UPI) platforms is not shared with their parent company or any other third party under any circumstances.A bench of Chief Justice SA Bobde and Justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian said if WhatsApp does not file its reply, then the averment made in the writ petition filed by petitioner Rajya Sabha MP Binoy Viswam will be taken as accepted.Several interlocutory applications have been filed in the plea which also seek direction for framing regulation to ensure that data collected on UPI platforms is not “exploited” or used in any manner other than for processing payments.Senior advocate Arvind Dattar, appearing for WhatsApp India, said however no formal notice has been issued to it in the plea for impleadment in the matter.Senior advocate V Giri, appearing for Reserve Bank of India, informed the top court that they have filed their reply in the matter.Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, also appearing for WhatsApp, said 'WhatsApp Pay' has received all necessary permission.Senior advocate Krishna Venugopal, appearing for the petitioner, said the last time the court asked the company if Israeli sypware Pegasus has breached their system, it stated that the issue was not pleaded in the petition, which is wrong.The bench said that it proposes that the petition be tagged with a similar plea pending in the top court and asked the Centre to file an affidavit on the issue of spyware.Venugopal said that till date Facebook and WhatsApp have not filed a counter-affidavit in the matter, despite the petition being pending for months and they should also be asked to file counter-affidavit.At the fag end of the hearing, the CJI told the counsels for WhatsApp that pleas challenging its new privacy policy are pending before the Supreme Court and posted the matter for further hearing after four weeks.In its affidavit, the RBI has told the top court that it has no responsibility to conduct “audit of members of United Payments Interface (UPI) ecosystem” and responsibility to ensure that private firms like Google and WhatsApp comply with norms lies with National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI).The RBI also said that the matters related to “data privacy and data sharing” are the domain of the central government.It also sought dismissal of the PIL filed by Viswam seeking direction to it to frame regulation to ensure that data collected on UPI platforms is not “exploited” or used in any manner other than for processing payments.The affidavit said: “It is submitted that RBI's directions issued vide circular dated April 6, 2018 on storage of payment system data pertain only to payment date storage and not sharing or privacy.RBI has not issued any instructions on data sharing by TPAPs (Third Party Application Providers) or the participants of UPI. Matters related to data privacy and data sharing come under the domain of Government of India.”It said that since NPCI is the owner and operator of the UPI, it would be more appropriate for them to respond on the status of “compliance of WhatsApp with the system rules /procedural guidelines governing UPI".Earlier, WhatsApp had denied in the court the allegations that its data can be hacked by Israeli sypware Pegasus, which had led to a controversy last year over breach of privacy following claims that Indian journalists and human rights activists were among those globally spied upon by unnamed entities.Prior to this, the apex court on October 15, last year had issued notice to RBI and others on the plea of Viswam seeking direction for framing regulation to ensure that data collected on UPI platforms is not “exploited” or used in any manner other than for processing payments.It had also sought responses of the Centre, RBI, NPCI and others including Google Inc, Facebook Inc, WhatsApp and Amazon Inc on the plea.“The RBI and NPCI have permitted the three members of 'Big Four Tech Giants' i.e. Amazon, Google and Facebook/WhatsApp (Beta phase) to participate in the UPI ecosystem without much scrutiny and in spite of blatant violations of UPI guidelines and RBI regulations,” the plea has claimed.The plea has alleged that this conduct of RBI and NPCI put the sensitive financial data of Indian users at huge risks, especially when these entities have been “continuously accused of abusing dominance and compromising data”, among other things.It said these allegations have become particularly worrisome at a time when India has banned host of Chinese applications on the ground that those applications were or could be used for data theft and could lead to security breaches.It has further sought a direction that RBI and NPCI should ensure that WhatsApp is not permitted to launch full scale operations of 'WhatsApp Pay' in India without fulfilling all legal compliances to the satisfaction of the court regarding requisite regulatory compliances. PTI SJK MNL SA||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-seeks-whatsapp-reply-on-plea-for-non-sharing-of-upi-data-with-any-third-party-101612172764758.html
01-02-2021||India||HC dismisses PIL for action against police, intelligence officials||The Delhi High Court on Monday dismissed with cost of ₹10,000 a PIL seeking action against the police and intelligence officials concerned for their "failure" in "anticipating and controlling" the farmers' protest on Republic Day leading to their forced entry into the Red Fort.A bench of Chief Justice DN Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh declined to entertain the PIL saying it was too early for the court to interfere in the issue as police has registered FIRs in relation to the incident on January 26.The tractor parade on January 26 that was to highlight the demands of farmer unions to repeal three new agri laws dissolved into anarchy on the streets of the national capital as thousands of protesters broke through barriers, fought with the police, overturned vehicles and hoisted a religious flag from the ramparts of the iconic Red Fort.Joginder Tuli, the chairman of the petitioner NGO, confirmed that the court has dismissed the petition with costs of ₹10,000.The NGO, Delhi Citizen Forum for CIvil Rights, in its petition had claimed that the incident occurred due to major lapses in the security set up and also violated the national honour as instead of the national flag a religious one was hoisted at Red Fort by the farmers on Republic Day.The NGO had contended in its petition that the "violent turn of a peaceful protest/rally especially on Republic Day casts a huge doubt on the security agencies and their preparedness to deal with criminal or even terrorist activities especially in the capital of India".On January 12, the Supreme Court had stayed the implementation of the contentious new farm laws till further orders and constituted a four-member committee to make recommendations to resolve the impasse over them between the Centre and farmers' unions protesting at Delhi borders.Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, are protesting at various border points of Delhi for over two months now against the three laws -- the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-dismisses-pil-for-action-against-police-intelligence-officials-101612172007907.html
01-02-2021||India||Union minister Tomar, NCP chief spar over farm laws||NCP chief Sharad Pawar hit back at Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Monday over the new farm laws, saying the latter was not putting forth “proper facts” before the people over minimum support price (MSP), which is a prime concern of the farmers. This comes a day after the minister had attacked Pawar for criticising the new farm laws out of “ignorance and misinformation”. He said that no provisions have been made to guarantee MSP to the farmers for trading with private buyers outside agriculture produce market committee (APMC). He also stressed that it is the duty of the Centre to convince the farmers.“Tomar ji is not bringing proper facts before the people. He has been assuring that the new laws will not affect the mandis (APMC) but farmers organisations are of the opinion that the provisions under law are favouring competitive companies,” Pawar said in a series of tweets.“Under the new laws, farmers can sell their produce outside mandis (APMC) but have no MSP guarantee when they sell their produce to private buyers. This is what the protesting farmers have been saying since the beginning. There is no assurance for fair prices to the farmers from the corporate sector in the long term,” he posted.Also read | Congress plans campaign against Centre across states over farm lawsThe former Union agriculture minister also said that the Centre passed the three farm bills without taking any political party or farmers into confidence. In the original form, the laws doesn’t guarantee fair prices to the farmers against their produce. The reference of MSP came in picture only after farmers started their agitation, he pointed out.Pawar also said the MSP was increased during his term as the agriculture minister to ensure fair prices to the farmers for their produce. “Till 2013-14, MSP was increased to ₹1,310 per quintal for rice and ₹1,400 per quintal for wheat from ₹550 per quintal for rice and ₹630 per quintal for wheat in 2003-04. The same year, the country had record production of foodgrain and MSP played important role in it,” the NCP chief said.On Sunday, responding to a critique on the new farm laws that Pawar had posted, Tomar had hoped that the NCP chief “will change his stand” and “explain the benefits of the laws to farmers.”“Pawar is considered well-versed with the issues and solutions relating to agriculture. He has himself tried hard to bring about the same agriculture reforms earlier,” the agriculture minister had said.Pawar had posted six tweets in which he said that the new laws will adversely affect the MSP and will also weaken the mandi system. He also raised concern about the amended Essential Commodities Act. “According to the Act, the Govt will intervene for price control only if rates of horticultural produce are increased by 100% and that of non-perishable items increase by 50%. Stock piling limits have been removed on food grain, pulses, onion, potato, oilseeds etc. It may lead to apprehensions that Corporates may purchase commodities at lower rates and stock pile and sell at higher prices to consumers,” he had posted on Twitter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/union-minister-tomar-ncp-chief-spar-over-farm-laws-101612170808243.html
01-02-2021||India||India sets aside ₹4.78 lakh crore for defence, 19% hike in capital expenditure||India has set aside ₹4.78 lakh crore for military spending in its budget for 2021-22, compared to last year’s ₹4.71 lakh crore, according to official documents. The figure includes ₹1.35 lakh crore earmarked for buying weapons and systems, compared to the capital expenditure of ₹1.13 lakh crore last year—an increase of almost 19%. The increase comes at a time when India is locked in a prolonged border row with China and the threat of a two-front conflict with China and Pakistan cannot be ruled out. Also Read: Budget 2021: No change in income tax slabs, focus on healthcare and infraThis year’s allocation includes ₹2.12 lakh crore for revenue expenditure and ₹1.15 lakh crore for defence pensions. The defence pension bill is lower than last year’s when it stood at ₹1.33 lakh crore. The defence outlay last year stood at ₹4.71 lakh crore compared to ₹4.3 lakh crore in 2019-20. “The overall increase in budget seems meagre but the allocation for capital expenditure appears to be healthy,” officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-sets-aside-rs-4-78-lakh-crore-for-defence-19-hike-in-capital-expenditure-101612168829785.html
01-02-2021||India||Terrorist hideout busted in J-K's Rajouri, huge cache of arms recovered||The security forces on Sunday busted a terrorirst hideout in Rajouri district and recovered a rich haul of arms and ammunition.A joint operation by Indian Army and police led to swift and timely recovery of large cache of weapons and ammunition from the dense forest area of Gadyog in Khawas region of Rajouri, said Defence spokesman Lt Col Devender Anand."Based on specific information from a reliable source, a joint operation was launched on Sunday by Indian Army and J&K Police in the general area of Chikakhet in Gadyog forest of Khawas region of Rajouri District, South of Pir Panjal Ranges," he said.During the search operation, war like stores were recovered. The seizure included one AK 47 rifle, three magazines of AK 47, 94 rounds of AK 47 ammunition, two Chinese pistols, two Chinese pistol magazines, eight rounds of pistol ammunition, five UBGL grenades, one Kenwood radio set and three radio set antennae."The timely recovery of huge cache of arms and ammunition has thwarted any possible untoward incident in otherwise peaceful region and has scuttled the nefarious plans of terrorist outfits to try derail peace and harmony in the region South of Pir Panjal Ranges," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/terrorist-hideout-busted-in-rajouri-huge-cache-of-arms-recovered-101612165013045.html
01-02-2021||India||News updates from HT: FM announces production linked incentive schemes for 13 sectors and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.FM announces production linked incentive schemes for 13 sectorsAs finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman presented the union budget on February 1, she announced that the government aims to spend ₹1.97 lakh crore on various PLI schemes over the next 5 years, starting from this fiscal. This will be an addition to the ₹40,951 crore announced for the PLI for electronic manufacturing schemes. Read moreSitting at your door: Ex-ally scoffs at PM's phone call away offer to farmersThe Shiromani Akali Dal, the erstwhile partner in the National Democratic Alliance at the Centre, walked out of Nirmala Sitharaman’s Budget presentation in Parliament over the farm laws impasse. Read moreFM Sitharaman provides ₹35,000 crore for Covid-19 vaccines in Budget 2021-22Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday announced ₹35,000 crore for Covid-19 vaccines in Union Budget 2021-22. "Government to provide ₹35,000 crore for Covid-19 vaccination in 2021-22; I am committed to providing more funds if required," she said. Read moreTrump finds new defence lawyers for Senate impeachment trialFormer US president Donald Trump has announced new lawyers to defend him in the impeachment trial set to start on February 9, in place of those who left abruptly over the weekend. Read more‘He demanded absolute professionalism’: Shane Lee feels Indian players ‘appear a bit scared’ under Kohli’s captaincyIn 2020, questions regarding Virat Kohli’s captaincy have surfaced. India lost the Test series to New Zealand at the start of the year, Royal Challengers Bangalore’s failed to reach the IPL finals and then India lost the first Test to Australia before Kohli went on his paternity leave. Read moreAnushka Sharma shares first photo of daughter with Virat Kohli, names her VamikaDays after welcoming her first child with husband Virat Kohli, Anushka Sharma has shared the first photo of the little one on Instagram. She also revealed the name of her daughter--Vamika. Read moreKareena Kapoor Khan flaunts baby bump, new hairstyle in ₹24k silk kaftan dressAs Karisma Kapoor, Kareena Kapoor Khan, Malaika Arora, Natasha Poonawalla, Maheep Kapoor and Seema Khan turned up at former actor Amrita Arora’s house to ring in her birthday, fashionistas undivided attention were fixed on the divas’ jaw-dropping ensembles. Putting their best fashion feet forward, the BFFs set the Internet on fire as they got together for a party on Sunday evening. Read moreWatch: Anupria Goenka: Web is far more talent hungry and it's not just based on stardomBollywood actor Anupria Goenka speaks to HT City Entertainment Editor, Monika Rawal, about her stint on the erb vis-a-vis films. With three web series that released last year - Asur, Aashram and Criminal Justice season 2 - Anupria had a great 2020 and she says, "It's easier to get meatier parts on the web because there's so much content being made and makers are always looking out for actors." Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-fm-announces-production-linked-incentive-schemes-101612162380305.html
01-02-2021||India||Sitting at your door: Ex-ally scoffs at PM's phone call away offer to farmers||The Shiromani Akali Dal, the erstwhile partner in the National Democratic Alliance at the Centre, walked out of Nirmala Sitharaman’s Budget presentation in Parliament over the farm laws impasse. Harsimrat Badal, the former food supplies minister in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s cabinet, termed it “unfortunate” that the government is still talking about phone calls when farmers are sitting at their doorstep.The former ally and minister said it is “shameful” that the farmers are sitting out in the cold for months but there was no mention of them in either the President Ram Nath Kovind’s joint address to Parliament or PM Modi’s monthly radio programme Mann Ki Baat.“Hundred people have died. For three months they have been sitting, literally, at the doorstep waiting to be heard. I am surprised he is still waiting for a phone call. The need of the hour was to listen after 11 rounds of talks and give them assurance that no more need to die... We are still talking about phone calls, it is very unfortunate,” Harsimrat Badal told Hindustan Times.“Unbecoming of any parliamentarian to behave in this fashion,” said BJP MP Meenakshi Lekhi over the Akalis’ decision to walk out of the Budget presentation.At the all-party meet on Sunday, PM Modi said the government was only a “phone call away” for talks with farmers who have been involved in a weeks-long agitation over the three farm laws.The PM, who chaired the virtual meeting, referred to Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar’s remarks after the 11th meeting between the government and the farm bodies that he was just a phone call away and will come whenever the farmer leaders want to discuss keeping the laws in abeyance.Eighteen opposition parties boycotted President Ram Nath Kovind’s address to both houses of Parliament on Friday, the inaugural day of the Budget Session, to protest against the farm laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sitting-at-your-door-ex-ally-scoffs-at-pm-s-phone-call-away-offer-to-farmers-101612161224472.html
01-02-2021||India||Farmers Protest: DMRC closes gates of Tikri Border, other metro stations, traffic to Ghazipur hit||In the wake of the ongoing farmers' protest around the Delhi border areas, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) on Monday closed the gates of Brigadier Hoshiar Singh, Bahadurgarh City, Pandit Shree Ram Sharma and Tikri border stations."The entry/exit gates of Brigadier Hoshiar Singh, Bahadurgarh City, Pandit Shree Ram Sharma and Tikri Border are closed," said the DMRC in a tweet.The Delhi traffic police has also issued an alert for the commuters travelling towards ISBT Anand Vihar."Traffic will remain affected on Road no. 56 from ISBT Anand Vihar to Ghazipur due to closing of border," Delhi Traffic Police tweeted. There is heavy traffic on road no. 56 from ISBT Anand Vihar to Ghazipur.Farmers have been protesting at the borders surrounding the national capital against the three new farm laws that have been introduced by the Narendra Modi-led BJP government.Eleven rounds of talks have taken place between the Centre and the farmers' union but the deadlock still persists. On Republic Day, clashes that broke between the Delhi Police and the farmers after a tractors' rally by the protesters took an unexpected turn leading to chaos in the capital.The farmers from mostly states like Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan and western Uttar Pradesh have been protesting for more than two months at Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur borders against the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020, these laws were passed by the Parliament in September, 2020.Since the sit-in protest at the border areas have begun around the capital, the commuters travelling from Delhi to its neighbouring areas have been facing some inconveniences due to traffic congestion, closed carriageways and closed gates of some metro stations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-dmrc-closes-gates-of-tikri-border-other-metro-stations-traffic-to-ghazipur-hit-101612155217257.html
01-02-2021||India||Srinagar records its coldest night since 1991; mercury at -8.8°C||Fresh snowfall was reported from north and central parts of Kashmir on Monday, bringing relief from the intense cold wave that had gripped the region, especially Srinagar city, from the past week.On Sunday night, Srinagar registered its lowest temperature of -8.8 degree Celsius (°C), a record since the January of 1991. Apart from the routine power shortages, the low temperatures have been freezing both water and road surfaces, making travel difficult. Dal and Nigeen lakes have been frozen. Srinagar received one centimetre of snow since last night.Traffic on Srinagar-Jammu national highway was suspended after a land slide in Banihal and efforts are on to clear the highway of the debris.Also read | Tourist influx increases in Jammu and Kashmir after snowfallKashmir has witnessed a number of snow spells in December and January. The director of meteorological department, Srinagar, Sonam Lotus, said the weather will remain cloudy between February 1-4.The weather office said that the coldest place in the Valley on the intervening night of Sunday and Monday was Kokernag in south Kashmir, where the mercury plunged to -9.5 °C.The tourist resort of Pahalgam in the south recorded -6.1°C while the ski resort of Gulmarg in north Kashmir recorded -8.2°C. Jammu logged 8.6°C.The 40-day intense winter period of Chillai Kalan, which had started in Kashmir Valley on December 21, has now ended.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/srinagar-records-its-coldest-night-since-1991-mercury-at-88c-101612155987422.html
01-02-2021||India||7-year-old's throat slit for resisting rape in Odisha, 2 arrested: Cops||Police on Sunday arrested two persons in Ganjam district on charges of gang-raping a seven-year-old girl and causing grievous injury to her by slitting her throat when she put up a resistance. The accused, who were drunk, also attacked her with bricks. One of the accused was badly beaten up by the villagers after the incident.Last Thursday, the girl was playing with her younger brother outside her aunt's house in a village under Golanthara police station area of Ganjam when she went near a culvert outside her village to attend nature’s call. The two accused - Rutu Behera and Hemant Behera - dragged her under the culvert and tried to rape her."The two accused were drunk. When she raised an alarm, they slit her throat with a sharp object. The two accused also attacked her with a broken piece of brick causing severe injuries on her head, face and ears," said Berhampur additional SP Trinath Patel.Some villagers spotted her lying in a pool of blood at one end of the village after a few hours and subsequently they informed the police.Police said the girl who was first admitted to the MKCG medical college and hospital in Berhampur and later shifted to the SCB medical college and hospital in Cuttack is now stable.The additional SP said a case against the two accused has been registered under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act and Sections 365/366, 376 (D)(B), 307 and 341 of the IPC.Police have recovered the blood-stained brick from the spot.The spurt in incidences of violence against children has raised serious concerns about their safety in the state.In July last, a five-year-old girl in Nayagarh was allegedly raped and murdered following which the state government formed a SIT to probe the matter.As per National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) figures, cases against minor children in Odisha have been steadily rising since 2017, While altogether 3,185 cases on crime against children were registered in the state in 2017, the cases increased to 5,217 in 2018 and 7,012 in 2019. The NCRB report says that the state’s conviction report in such cases stood at a measly 17.6% in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/7yearolds-throat-slit-for-resisting-rape-in-odisha-2-arrested-cops-101612154244494.html
01-02-2021||India||Indian Coast Guard courageously ensuring our seas are safe: PM Modi||Lauding the service of the Indian Coast Guard (ICG), Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday greeted its personnel and their families on the foundation day of the force. The Indian Coast Guard is celebrating its 45th Raising Day today."On the Foundation Day of the Indian Coast Guard, my greetings to all their personnel and their families. Our Coast Guard is courageously ensuring our seas are safe. We are proud of their professionalism and impeccable service," PM Modi said on Twitter.According to the Ministry of Defence, the ICG has played a significant role in securing the Indian Coasts and enforcing regulations within the maritime zones of India.The Indian Coast Guard was incepted on February 1, 1977. True to its motto "Vayam Rakshamah" meaning 'We protect', the service has to its credit saving over 10,000 lives and apprehending around 14,000 miscreants since its inception in 1977. On average, the Coast Guard saves one life every second day at sea.On average, the Coast Guard saves one life every second day at sea. Despite the restrictions imposed by the Covid-19 pandemic, the ICG has maintained 24x7 vigil in the Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ) by deploying about 50 ships and 12 aircraft daily.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-coast-guard-courageously-ensuring-our-seas-are-safe-pm-modi-101612153744226.html
01-02-2021||India||2 dead after truck collides with another in Chhattisgarh’s Dantewada||Two persons were killed, and six others injured in Dantewada on Sunday when a truck carrying villagers for a public programme of Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel collided with another truck, police said.The district administration has announced to provide a financial assistance of ₹2 lakh for kin of those killed and CM Baghel has expressed his condolences over the death of the victims.Over 60 villagers were on board the truck when its driver lost control over the steering wheel, following which the vehicle rammed a check-post and then hit another truck.Police personnel shifted the injured persons to hospitals in Kirandul and Bacheli towns."One person died on the spot in the collision while another succumbed to his injuries at a local hospital," a police official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-dead-after-truck-collides-with-another-in-chhattisgarh-s-dantewada-101612153696936.html
01-02-2021||India||Got threat calls for accepting PM’s invite, alleges TMC MP||Trinamool Congress parliamentarian Dibyendu Adhikari, who happens to be the brother of BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari, has allegedly received threats over the phone for accepting an invitation to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s programme later this month in poll-bound Bengal. “I have been warned that my hand and legs would be broken if I go to Haldia to attend the Prime Minister’s programme scheduled on February 7. But I don’t care, I will attend it. It is a government programme and I have received invitation from the PMO. Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan also requested me as I am the local MP,” said Adhikari, TMC MP from Tamluk in East Midnapore. Adhikari’s brother and former state minister Suvendu Adhikari recently switched over to the BJP. Another brother, Soumendu Adhikari, has also left the TMC to join the BJP. Also read | Mamata will be left alone by election time, says ShahBoth Dibyendu and his father Sisir Adhikari, a TMC MP from Kathi constituency in the same district, have since distanced themselves from the ruling party. Dibyendu didn’t attend a programme of chief minister Mamata Banerjee recently held in the district. To that, he said, “I never got any invitation. Secondly, I was preoccupied. I even received threats that if I attend the CM’s programme, I would be beaten up.” He was, however, seen meeting Union minister Pradhan on Sunday at a hotel when the latter came to Haldia. Even though Dibyendu has said that he is still with the TMC, speculations are rife that he could end his ties with the ruling party later this month. Suvendu had also earlier said that more members from his family would join the BJP. “I have sought an appointment from the Lok Sabha Speaker on February 10. I am going to meet him. It is personal,” he said, while adding that he will let the people know if he takes any decision (of quitting the party). Meanwhile, the TMC said Adhikari was making false claims about threatening calls. “I think he is staging this to get attention. The TMC is not associated with such threats,” said Akhil Giri, TMC leader from the district. The BJP sought to pin it on the ruling party. Party spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya said,“This is an immature task. It is unfortunate that a TMC MP is being threatened when he is still with the party. Such incidents would continue till the TMC is in power.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/got-threat-calls-for-accepting-pm-s-invite-alleges-tmc-mp-101612153947464.html
01-02-2021||India||India expresses concern over coup in Myanmar, says democracy must be upheld||India on Monday joined countries around the world in expressing concern at the military coup in Myanmar and detention of de facto leader Aung Saan Suu Kyi, and said the rule of law and democratic process must be upheld. The external affairs ministry said in a brief statement it was monitoring the situation closely after Myanmar’s military seized power by ousting the democratically elected government of Suu Kyi, who was held with other leaders of her National League for Democracy (NLD) party in early morning raids. The military said it had taken control of Myanmar for a year under a state of emergency to investigate what it described as “huge discrepancies” in the voters’ lists used for the general election last November. NLD had easily won the election, securing 83% of available seats in the two houses of Parliament, while the pro-military Union Solidarity and Development Party (USDP) won just 33 seats. “We have noted the developments in Myanmar with deep concern,” the external affairs ministry said. “India has always been steadfast in its support to the process of democratic transition in Myanmar. We believe that the rule of law and the democratic process must be upheld,” it added. Also read | US urges Myanmar’s military to release those detained, respect election resultsThe US said it was alarmed by the military undermining the democratic transition in Myanmar and urged all parties to adhere to democratic norms. White House spokesperson Jen Psaki said the US “opposes any attempt to alter the outcome of recent elections or impede Myanmar’s democratic transition, and will take action against those responsible if these steps are not reversed”. Bangladesh, which has warily followed developments in Myanmar as they will affect efforts to repatriate more than a million Rohingya refugees to Rakhine state, called for upholding the democratic process and constitutional arrangements. A statement from the foreign ministry in Dhaka said: “We have been persistent in developing mutually beneficial relations with Myanmar and have been working with Myanmar for the voluntary, safe and sustained repatriation of the Rohingyas sheltered in Bangladesh. We expect these processes to continue in right earnest.” China, which views Myanmar as a vital part of its Belt and Road Initiative, called on all parties to “resolve their differences under the constitutional and legal framework to protect political and social stability”. Myanmar’s military or Tatmadaw had hinted at a coup since last week while complaining about alleged fraud in the elections, a charge dismissed by the country’s election commission and international observers. As the coup ended a decade of civilian rule, phone and internet services were suspended and there was a stronger military presence on the streets. India has a complex relationship with the civilian government and military in Myanmar, as reflected by the most recent high-level Indian visit to the country – foreign secretary Harsh Shringla was accompanied by Indian Army chief Gen MM Naravane on the trip last October. While backing democratic forces in Myanmar, India has retained close contacts with the military because of security concerns related to its northeastern states. A number of militant groups from the northeast have had bases in Myanmar over the past decades and the Indian Army has collaborated with its Myanmarese counterpart to pressure them and to conduct joint operations. India also believes its contacts with Myanmar’s military help balance China’s influence within the neighbouring country. This is one of the reasons why the Indian side has not publicly criticised Myanmar’s handling of the Rohingya crisis. Former ambassador Rajiv Bhatia, who served as India’s envoy to Myanmar during 2002-05, said the military seizing power was the outcome of an array of fault lines related to politics, ideology and personality, and India’s response will be guided by past lessons. “The first reaction will be concern that democracy has suffered a setback. But then the reality of hardcore security and strategic interests will come into play and there will be a balance between India’s principles and interests. While expressing faith in democracy, we will find a way to deal with those who wield power in Myanmar,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-expresses-concern-over-coup-in-myanmar-says-democracy-must-be-upheld-101612153767113.html
01-02-2021||India||Bihar girl to visit 15 domestic tourist spots after PM Modi's praise in Mann ki Baat||Elated after being mentioned by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his first Mann Ki Baat programme this year, Priyanka Pandey of Bihar's Siwan district has decided to visit more than 15 domestic tourist places this year.During the 73rd episode of Mann ki Baat on Sunday, PM Modi lauded Pandey, a 23-year-old student of Hindu literature who was inspired by his suggestion of visiting 15 domestic tourist places and visited the ancestral house of the first President of India, Dr Rajendra Prasad at Siwan's Ziradei on January 1."I am feeling happy about the fact that my message was chosen by Namo App. I wanted to give the message that people should visit the places related to the great personalities of India. I visited Dr Prasad ancestral home on January 1. I have now decided to visit more than 15 domestic tourist places this year," Pandey told ANI.During his monthly radio programme, PM Modi said, "I received a message from my sister Priyanka Pande, who is a 23-year-old student of Hindu literature and lives in Bihar's Siwan. Priyankaji has written on Namo app that she was so inspired by my suggestion of visiting 15 domestic tourist places. On January 1, she visited a place which is very special just 15 km away from her home. It was the ancestral house of the first President of India, Dr Rajendra Prasad. She has written a beautiful thing that it was her first step towards understanding our great personalities. Priyankaji found there several books written by Dr Rajendra Prasad and many historical pictures. Indeed Priyankaji, your experience will inspire others also."During his address to the nation on Independence Day in 2019, Prime Minister Narendra Modi from the ramparts of the Red Fort had urged citizens to visit 15 tourist destinations within the country by 2022 to give a fillip to the domestic tourism sector.Mann ki Baat is the Prime Minister's monthly radio programme to the nation, which is broadcasted on the last Sunday of every month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-girl-to-visit-15-domestic-tourist-spots-after-pm-modi-s-praise-in-mann-ki-baat-101612153276592.html
01-02-2021||India||India expresses deep concern over military coup in Myanmar||The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) on Monday said it has noted the developments in Myanmar with deep concern, adding that India has always been determined in its support of democratic transition in the country."We have noted the developments in Myanmar with deep concern. India has always been steadfast in its support to the process of democratic transition in Myanmar. We believe that the rule of law and the democratic process must be upheld. We are monitoring the situation closely," the MEA said in a statement.Myanmar military television said on Monday morning that the military was taking control of the country for one year and Suu Kyi and others had been detained. The actions came on the day Myanmar's Parliament was to convene with new members taking oath following November elections.The Irrawaddy, an established online news service, reported that State Counsellor Aung San Suu Kyi, the nation’s top leader, and the country’s president, Win Myint, were both detained before dawn on Monday. The news service cited Myo Nyunt, a spokesman for Suu Kyi’s ruling National League for Democracy party.Its report said that the party’s Central Executive Committee members, lawmakers and regional Cabinet members had also been taken into custody.Tensions had been brewing for the past few months, with the military and its political factions demanding authorities investigate allegations of mass voting fraud in the second general election with widespread participation after decades of army rule. Myanmar’s election commission last week had labeled the vote transparent and fair, and the United Nations and the European Union urged the military to respect the results.On Sunday, the military - known as the Tatmadaw - denied objecting to the outcome of the election and said it “finds the process of the 2020 election unacceptable.” The 2008 constitution allows the military to take power during a state of emergency that could cause disintegration of the union or “national solidarity,” effectively allowing soldiers to take power for vague reasons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-expresses-deep-concern-over-military-coup-in-myanmar-101612151999649.html
01-02-2021||India||India's daily Covid-19 cases drop to 11,427, recoveries surpass 10.43 million||India recorded 11,427 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Monday, on a day when finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman will present the Union Budget. With this, the nationwide tally reached 10,757,610, according to Union health ministry update.The number of active cases of the disease went down to 1,68,235, the health ministry update at 8 am showed. The recoveries stood at 10,434,983.India also recorded 118 fresh fatalities due to the disease in the said period which took the death toll to 1,54,392. On Sunday, India had recorded 127 fatalities linked to Covid-19.The health ministry had said on Saturday that the country's recovery rate has reached nearly 97 per cent (96.98 per cent), adding that it is one of the highest globally.Addressing the British Association of Physicians of Indian Origin (BAPIO) Wales at their annual conference via video link on Saturday night, health minister Harsh Vardhan said on Saturday that India was able to fight the Covid-19 pandemic much better than other countries because of its "whole of government" and "whole of society" approach."India was the first country to respond within an hour when WHO declared Covid-19 a pandemic. Planning started on January 8 and guidelines were drafted by 17th. Massive surveillance started on the same day with meticulous contact tracing unparalleled in the world," Vardhan said.India has also been witnessing a nationwide vaccination programme to combat the Covid-19 infection. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has termed it the world's biggest vaccination programme."Globally, India stands at the fifth position (as on 29th January, 2021) in terms of the number of vaccine doses administered within the country. This is despite the fact that many countries had initiated their vaccination campaign before India," the health ministry said in a statement on Sunday.Addressing the nation on his monthly address Mann Ki Baat, PM Modi had said that India is the fastest in vaccinating its citizens."Just as India's war against coronavirus became an example to the world, similarly our vaccination programme is also becoming an example to the world. India is conducting the biggest vaccination drive in the world. Do you know what is an even better matter of pride? We are not only running the world's biggest vaccination drive but we are also the fastest in vaccinating our citizens," the Prime Minister said."In merely 15 days, India has vaccinated more than 30 lakhs Covid-19 warrior, while a rich country like the US has completed the same target in 18 days and the UK in 36 days. The Made in India vaccines are not only a symbol of Atmanirbhar Bharat but they are also a symbol of self-pride," he added.The number of healthcare workers vaccinated against Covid-19 has crossed the 37 lakh mark on the 15th day of the vaccination program, according to health ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-daily-covid-19-cases-drop-to-11-427-recoveries-surpass-10-43-million-101612150919706.html
01-02-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 9 AM: IMD predicts rain over northwest India this week and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 AM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Widespread rain, thunderstorms likely over NW India this weekWidespread thundershowers are expected over the plains of northwest India from February 3 to 6, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD). Read moreUS urges Myanmar's military to release those detained, respect election resultsThe United States has expressed shock over developments in Myanmar where Aung San Suu Kyi and other senior figures from the ruling party have been detained and said President Joe Biden has been briefed in this regard the National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan. Read moreKapil Sharma-Ginni Chatrath welcome baby boy, comedian thanks fans for their blessingsComedian Kapil Sharma and his wife Ginni Chatrath welcomed their second child on Monday morning. The couple has been blessed with a baby boy. Read moreAlia Bhatt’s date night look is about comfy sweaters and well-fitted jeansAlia Bhatt’s date night look comprises of a cosy sweater and a pair of jeans. No no, we are not just saying this on our own. Head on to her Instagram account and the latest post will prove us right. Read moreShe came out to her dad, post on his reaction has sparked funnily cute threadThe Internet is filled with posts of people sharing how their loved ones reacted when they came out as a member of the LGBTQ+ community. From emotional to heartbreaking to wholesome, the tales are of all types. There is now a newest addition to that list. It’s a story shared by Twitter user Charlotte on how her dad reacted when she came out to her parents. Read more'India needed a person like him after Adelaide debacle': Ramiz Raja lauds Rahane, explains Kohli and Shastri's impactFormer Pakistan captain Ramiz Raja is impressed with India's solid bench strength, saying India deserve to be where they are in world cricket. Shastri's comments came after India's historic 2-1 Test series win in Australia, which saw them stage a comeback for the ages after being dished out one of their worst defeats of all time in Adelaide. Read more‘Misinformed’: Agriculture minister counters Sharad Pawar over farm lawsUnion Agriculture Minister Narendra Tomar countered NCP chief Sharad Pawar’s tweets over farm laws. Tomar said that the ex-agriculture minister was 'misinformed'. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9-am-imd-predicts-rain-over-northwest-india-this-week-and-all-the-latest-news-101612145693736.html
01-02-2021||India||Cinema halls, theatres to run at full capacity from Monday: All you need to know||Cinema halls and theatres across the country will operate at full capacity from Monday with adherence to Covid-19 safety protocols. Apart from ensuring physical distancing to avoid overcrowding, the theatres and multiplexes have been asked to stagger show timings and make digital booking of tickets available.The announcement in this regard was made on Sunday by Union minister for information and broadcasting (I&B) Prakash Javadekar. Mandatory face masks and sanitisation of auditorium after every screening are among the latest SOPs.“There is good news. In February, people can watch and enjoy films in theatres as we are allowing full occupancy in all cinema halls. Cinema halls can now open at 100 per cent capacity. We encourage as much online booking (of tickets) as possible,” Javadekar told reporters.Here's all you need to know:--According to the new guidelines, no film shall be allowed to screen in containment zones and states and union territories may consider “proposing additional measures” as per their assessment.--To minimise physical contact, digital transactions should be the “most preferred mode” for booking tickets or payment. Contact number shall be taken at the time of booking of tickets to facilitate contact tracing.--Sufficient number of counters at the box office shall be opened with adequate physical distancing norms, to prevent crowding during physical booking of tickets.--Adequate time intervals between successive screenings on a single screen as well as on various screens in a multiplex shall be provided to ensure row-wise staggered entry and exit of the audience.--Continuing with the basic health guidelines amid the pandemic, there should be availability of hand sanitisers — preferably in the touch-free mode — at entry and exit points.--A thermal screening of all visitors and staff will be carried out at entry points, with only asymptomatic individuals allowed to enter, according to the guidelines.--Installation and use of Aarogya Setu App “shall be advised to all,” the SOPs read.--The SOPs stated that the number of people in the elevators shall be restricted, with efforts to encourage the audience to avoid movement during the intermission.--Mandatory wearing of face cover for staff and sanitisation of cinema auditorium after every screening are part of the SOPs which also directs theatre owners to make arrangements for regular cleaning and disinfection drive at the box office, food and beverage areas, employee and staff lockers, toilets, public areas, and back office.--According to the new guidelines, if any person visiting cinema hall is found Covid-19 positive the entire premise will have to be disinfected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/cinema-halls-theatres-to-run-at-full-capacity-from-monday-all-you-need-to-know-101612147538336.html
01-02-2021||India||Widespread rain, thunderstorms likely over NW India this week||Widespread thundershowers are expected over the plains of northwest India from February 3 to 6, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD).A fresh Western Disturbance is likely to affect Western Himalayan region from tonight. Under its influence, scattered rain/snow with moderate thunderstorm and lightning is likely over the hills during February 1 and 2. Another Western Disturbance, in quick succession, is also likely to affect Western Himalayan Region from February 2 and plains of northwest India from February 3.Due to the Western Disturbance, scattered to fairly widespread and moderate rain/snow with isolated thunderstorm and hail is likely over the Western Himalayan region during February 3 and 5.Due to interaction of southwesterlies associated with the Western Disturbance and lower level southeasterlies from the Bay of Bengal, widespread light to moderate rain/thundershowers is likely over the plains of northwest India and adjoining Central India during February 3 to 6 with maximum intensity on February 4.Rain and thunderstorms are also expected over adjoining Central India during February 4 and 5 and over adjoining east India on February 6.Also read | Delhi had seven cold wave days in January this year, maximum since 2008Dense to very dense fog was observed on Monday at isolated places over Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. Visibility recorded at 5.30 am today was less than 26 m over Bareilly, Bahraich, Lucknow, Sultanpur, Gorakhpur; less than 50 m at Varanasi, Patna, Bhagalpur, Purnea, Agartala; less than 500 m at Palam and Safdarjung in Delhi.“The WD approaching on Sunday night will mostly affect the Western Himalayas. But the next Western Disturbance approaching on February 2 will be more intense and will bring both snowfall to the hills and rain to the plains. In Delhi-NCR on February 4 and 5, its likely to cause thunderstorms with light rain. After the WD passes, minimum temperatures will drop once again over northwest India, but cold wave is unlikely because climatologically, we are moving towards comparatively higher minimum temperatures,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre.MONSOONSkymet Weather, a private weather forecasting company in its initial forecast for monsoon in 2021 released on Sunday projected that its likely to be a “normal” monsoon year with rainfall of 96% to 104% of the long period average (LPA). Last year, monsoon was driven by La Niña which is peaking right now. It will decline during the spring and turn neutral later through the monsoon season. It also means that monsoon 2021 is going to be a devolving La Niña to start with. This trend of Pacific Ocean temperatures may not lead to an above normal or excess rainfall.“Models and other global weather reports are indicating a normal monsoon this year. Presently, La Nina is at its peak. By the time monsoon arrives, we may see El Niño and the Southern Oscillation (ENSO) Neutral conditions. The sea surface temperatures are likely to rise soon in the equatorial Pacific Ocean and the probability of continued La Niña will fall. We expect good rains in the first half of monsoon, thereafter rains may decrease a bit. Chances of below normal monsoon are almost nil,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice president (Climate change and meteorology), Skymet Weather.ENSO is a periodic fluctuation in sea surface temperature and the air pressure of the overlying atmosphere across the equatorial Pacific Ocean according to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.ENSO has a major influence on weather and climate patterns such as heavy rains, floods and drought. El Niño has a warming influence on global temperatures, while La Niña has the opposite effect. In India, for example, El Nino is associated with drought or weak monsoon while La Nina is associated with strong monsoon and above average rains and colder winters.This monsoon, IMD is likely to issue a special seasonal forecast for rain-fed areas where there is no irrigation facility. It is also like to use a multi-model ensemble forecast ( a combination of different models) to predict monsoon rains this year.“Its too early to make a monsoon forecast. We cannot share details now,” said M Mohapatra, director general, IMD. Last year, the total rainfall recorded in monsoon was 108.7% of long period average and in 2019 it was 110% of LPA --consecutive years of above normal monsoon. Before 2020 and 2019, consecutive years of above normal monsoon were recorded in 1958 and 1959.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/widespread-rain-thunderstorms-likely-over-nw-india-this-week-101612147586816.html
01-02-2021||India||BJP banks on local poll gains to make inroads in Kerala||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is confident that the gains that it notched up in the Kerala local body elections that concluded in December are an indication of its growing support base in the state which will pick a new assembly a few months from now.According to people aware of the details, the party won 3.575 million votes in the local body elections, about 17.20% of the total votes counted. “The party has done better in the local body elections as compared to the elections held in 2015. There has been an increase of about 35% in vote share and overall our members have grown from 1,200 to nearly 1,700 across all six corporations and we even have representation in places such as Kannur where the party was considered weak,” said the BJP’s state unit president K Surendran.According to an internal report of the party, the BJP won 1,635 seats and finished second in 2,800 seats against both the Left Democratic Front (LDF) and the United Democratic Front (UDF). The party claims it lost 1,200 seats with a “thin margin” on account of cross-voting between the LDF and the UDF.A senior party functionary in Delhi said the party had been buoyed by its performance in municipalities such as Palakkad, Pandalam, Trivandrum, Thalassari and Chengannur and was expecting a replay there in the forthcoming assembly elections.Also read: UDF launches state-wide rally in KeralaIn 2016, the BJP won a single seat from Nemom and its vote share was around 14%. The party is also counting on the support of Christians and a small section of Muslims. “There is a shift on the ground; many people belonging to the Christian and Muslim faith are also supporting the BJP because they are upset with the corruption-ridden state government. Take the case of Pandalam municipality where the BJP wrested control from the LDF. BJP won 18 divisions in the 33-member municipality whereas last time it had won only seven divisions,” said the party functionary cited above.As for the poll plank, the party will target the Pinarayi Vijayan government on the issues of a gold smuggling racket unearthed in July and its response to the Covid-19 pandemic. “We will focus on corruption, under-development and lack of jobs. Both Oommen Chandy (Congress) and Pinarayi Vijayan are two sides of the same coin. We will go to people with details about the gold smuggling case for which government officials are in jail, the assembly speaker is under the scanner and many people are involved,” Surendran said.The campaign will take off with party president JP Nadda’s visit scheduled on February 3 and 4. According to a person aware of the details, Nadda is expected to address a rally in Thrissur and hold meetings with party leaders, office bearers and booth level functionaries in Trivandrum.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-banks-on-local-poll-gains-to-make-inroads-in-kerala-101612145562843.html
01-02-2021||India||After Balakot strike, Pakistani bids to infiltrate via the Jammu border up: BSF||Extensive use of underground tunnels and drones to send more men and weapons to India through the Jammu border reflects a hardening of Pakistan’s attitude, particularly after the February 26, 2019 Indian Air Force strike on a terror camp in Balakot, according to an assessment by the Border Security Force (BSF). The BSF says the threat on this stretch of border had become multi-dimensional in the last few years.The constant presence and movement of the Pakistan Army, Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) agents, terrorists and Special Service Groups has been noticed not only in the International Border belt, but also along border outposts of Pakistan Rangers, according to BSF’s senior most officer on the Jammu frontier, inspector general NS Jamwal.The Pakistan army, according to Jamwal, is extending its Kashmir ideology to the Jammu border in a similar fashion and with the lethality and seriousness it does across the Line of Control.Also read: BSF unearths tunnel used by Pak to send in terrorists to India“The combined presence of Pakistan Army/ISI/terrorists/criminals in the border belt, with a common anti-India agenda, is a serious issue of concern and an emerging challenge for the BSF planners and executioners,” Jamwal has written in the BSF’s internal magazine Borderman 2020, a copy of which has been reviewed by HT.More than 2,000 cross-border firing incidents in the last six years from the Pakistan side indicate the profile of violence on the Jammu border. BSF has also discovered at least 10 tunnels since 2012 on the Jammu frontier; four to five of them were found in last six months.Detailing the modus operandi used by Pakistan, Jamwal writes that terrorist handlers, after a detailed recce and coordinating with over-ground workers on Indian side, help terrorists infiltrate across border during dusk.The aim of the terrorists is to reach Pathankot-Jammu-Srinagar National Highway by 2 or 3 am so they are picked by OGWs on Indian side and transported to safe places before dawn.To conceal their movement, Pakistan has shrouded certain pockets on its side of the IB with tall elephant grass and other wild growth from where snipers can target BSF troops.As part of Pakistan’s national defence strategy, the Pakistani army has settled its ex-servicemen in the border belt to act “as early warning elements and provide depth to their first line of defence,” according to Jamwal.“One can easily read the management of terrain on Pak side which clearly indicates that Pakistan is not interested in Border management but in furthering its Kashmir policy through Jammu border. Since Pakistan terms Jammu IB as ‘working boundary,’ it attempts to change the status quo of the IB, and as a result some boundary disputes are already pending for settlement, and more have emerged,” the BSF magazine assesses.After the Balakot strike, Pakistan is also using drones to carry out surveillance of BSF forward areas along the Jammu border as well as to smuggle weapons.Jamwal told HT: “Pakistan’s main aim is to disturb J&K and they are finding it difficult to push through borders which are well guarded, so the tunnels and drones are being used. We have made a lot of progress to neutralize this threat”.Sameer Patil, fellow in international security studies programme at Gateway House, said: “Tunnels have been used by Pakistan earlier too, but drones are definitely a challenge for security forces. It also shows how, with the help of the Pakistani state, the terrorists are devising new ways every time we neutralize their traditional routes. I am sure India will be able to neutralize the threat of tunnels and drones also very soon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-balakot-strike-pakistani-bids-to-infiltrate-via-the-jammu-border-up-bsf-101612142254636.html
01-02-2021||India||TN poll battle heats up as Sasikala leaves hospital||VK Sasikala on Sunday left a Bengaluru hospital in a car flaunting the flag of Tamil Nadu’s ruling All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK), which has expelled her and refused to take her back into its fold, signalling her intent to fight the party leadership as the state gears up for another high-decibel election.Sasikala, a close associate of the late AIADMK leader and former chief minister J Jayalalithaa, appeared frail from inside the car, bowing to supporters who had gathered outside the hospital chanting Vazhga Chinnamma (long live our mother’s sister). She had been receiving treatment for over 10 days for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).The decision to use the AIADMK flag on the car, analysts said, was a message that she still belongs to the party and continues to stake a claims to the legacy of Jayalaithaa, who died in December 2016.“Sasikala will remain in Bengaluru for another week,” said a person aware of the development, requesting anonymity.Also read: Sasikala’s political rise and fall after Jayalalithaa’s deathAfter consulting an astrologer, the 66-year-old Sasikala decided to get discharged on Sunday just after 12.00 pm, followed by a convoy of at least 10 cars out of the hospital and moved into Prestige Golfshire, a high-end resort near Nandi Hills, about 45 kms from Bengaluru.She is expected to complete the seven-day quarantine period in the resort and return to Tamil Nadu after February 7 in a grand homecoming of sorts, the first person cited above said.Her return shakes up existing equations within the faction-hit AIADMK amid mixed reactions in Tamil Nadu on Sasikala’s imminent return to the state after serving out her prison term for amassing assets disproportionate to her income and treatment for Covid-19.“She’s not even a member of the party, how can she use the flag? She has no basic rights whatsoever in the party. This is illegal,” said AIADMK spokesperson D Jayakumar. Since her release from prison, the AIADMK has expelled two of its functionaries for putting up posters welcoming Sasikala as the party’s general secretary.Senior AIADMK leader KP Munusamy indicated that a reconciliation was possible.Calling Sasikala’s nephew and Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK) chief TTV Dhinakaran an opportunist who tried to break the AIADMK, he said: “If he (Dhinakaran) wants, he can submit a written apology seeking forgiveness for all his mistakes and to be accepted as a cadre. The leadership can take a call on his letter.”Dinakaran on Sunday shrugged off the use of the flag, stating that Sasikala was still “the general secretary of the AIADMK.”Just two months after Jayalaithaa’s demise in December 2016, the Sasikala faction of the party got into a bitter power struggle to oust O Panneerselvam as the chief minister. The Supreme Court convicted three people (Sasikala, Ilavarasi and VK Sudhakaran) in a 21-year-old disproportionate assets case on February 14, 2017.The developments have added to the intensity of the upcoming polls in which the AIADMK is consolidating its resources to take on its bitter rival, the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK).Sasikala had handpicked Edapaddi Palaniswami for the CM’s role, over current deputy chief minister Paneerselvam, who had officiated in that role through all of Jayalalithaa’s illnesses.Sasikala had filed a petition in the Madras high court that the general council meeting held to expel her was invalid The case is not yet listed, said her lawyer Raja Senthoor Pandian. “The case is pending in court so she’s put the flag in her car. Chinnamma will continue her legal battle. I floated AMMK democratically to reclaim the AIADMK,” Dhinakaran told reporters in Bengaluru.“By using the flag, she is sending a message to the cadre that she belongs to the AIADMK but when the Election Commission has recognised the Palaniswami-Paneerselvam’s government and party as the true AIADMK, it’s a weak case in a civil court,” Ravindran Duraisamy, a Chennai-based political analyst, said.The election commission in 2017 allotted the party name and its two-leaves symbol to the present regime.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tn-poll-battle-heats-up-as-sasikala-leaves-hospital-101612140633620.html
01-02-2021||India||Farm stir, budget session likely to delay selection of next CBI director||With just three days left for incumbent Rishi Kumar Shukla’s two-year tenure to end, the process of choosing the next director of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) is likely to be delayed. The Centre is yet to call a meeting of the high-powered selection committee that chooses the chief of the country’s premier investigating agency, people familiar with the development said.The selection committee, comprising Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Chief Justice of India SA Bobde and Leader of Congress in the Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, has to decide the name of the next CBI director from among a panel of officers belonging to four batches – 1984 to 1987 – of the Indian Police Service (IPS) on the basis of seniority, integrity and experience in handling vigilance/anti-corruption cases.Shukla’s two-year tenure as agency chief will end on February 3. He had joined the agency on February 4, 2019.However, the panel is yet to take a call on the crucial meeting and people familiar with the process said on condition of anonymity that the government may take a few more weeks to scrutinize the record of eligible officers because it is caught up in the farmers’ protests against the three farm laws, the Covid-19 pandemic and the budget session of Parliament.When contacted, Chowdhury confirmed to HT that he had not received any notice yet for the meeting to choose the CBI director. The Congress is the largest opposition party in the Lok Sabha.The government is tight-lipped over the process, but an official who didn’t want to be named, said at least 25-26 IPS officers from 1984 to 1987 batches are in the fray for the coveted job. As per procedure, the ministry of home affairs (MHA) and Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT) will prepare a list of probables in consultation with the Chief Vigilance Commission (CVC) for the selection committee to consider.Among the top contenders are 1984 batch officer of the Assam-Meghalaya cadre YC Modi (currently director general, or DG, of the National Investigation Agency); 1984 batch Gujarat cadre IPS officer Rakesh Asthana (currently DG of the Border Security Force); 1985 batch Maharashtra cadre officer Subodh Kumar Jaiswal (DG of the Central Industrial Security Force); 1985 batch UP cadre officer H C Awasthy (director general of police, or DGP, Uttar Pradesh); 1984 batch officer of Haryana cadre S S Deswal; and 1985 officer of Kerala cadre Loknath Behera (DGP, Kerala).Meanwhile, in another development in the CBI, the agency’s former spokesperson, deputy superintendent of police R K Gaur, who retired in December 2020, has been re-employed in the agency for one year on contract to handle the media. He will report to additional director general-media R C Joshi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-stir-budget-session-likely-to-delay-selection-of-next-cbi-director-101612140388744.html
01-02-2021||India||Congress plans campaign against Centre across states over farm laws||In an attempt to sustain the momentum of protests against the three farm laws passed by the Centre in September, the Congress has set a timeline for its state units to launch campaigns against the legislation and report back to the central leadership.In a letter to all state Congress chiefs dated Saturday, general secretary in charge of organisation KC Venugopal called for block-level conventions on the farm laws to be organised before February 10.“At these conventions, the block committees may honour farmers and farm labourers and pay homage to the farmers who lost their lives during the farmers’ protests,” said the letter, a copy of which has been seen by Hindustan Times.Following the block-level conventions, the state Congress units have been told to organise district level padayatras (walks) before February 20.“A 10 to 20 kilometers-long padayatra with massive participation has to be held in every district in solidarity with the farmers’ protests and demanding a JPC {joint parliamentary inquiry} into the breach of national security. The PCCs {Pradesh Congress Committees} are requested to give instructions to the DCCs {District Congress Committees} to hold a massive padayatra in every district involving every Congress worker, leader and office bearer in the district.”Also read: Opposition leaders may raise the issue in Parliament, says TikaitThe proposed programmes across the states are the first organised, pan-India campaign by the Congress at the grassroots level and coincides with the ongoing farmers’ agitation at the border points of Delhi. A part of the Congress programme will also overlap with the budget session of Parliament where at least 18 Opposition parties are demanding withdrawal of the three farm laws.The laws allow businesses to freely trade farm produce outside the so-called government-controlled mandi system, permit private traders to stockpile large quantities of essential commodities for future sales, and lay down new rules for contract farming.Farmers fear the reforms would make them vulnerable to exploitation by big corporations and pave the way for the government to stop buying staples at minimum support prices (MSPs).The letter, dated January 30, also asked for state-level‘Kisan Sammelans to be organised before February-end. “It has to be ensured that each and every worker/leaders across the state and all elected representatives including MP’s/MLA’s/ Congress candidates/ Party Office Bearers participate and ensure to make it a mass convention,” Venugopal said.Last week, the Congress Working Committee approved state-wise agitations against the farm laws, which the Congress says will only benefit a handful of industrialists.The government has refuted the Opposition claims and Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Saturday the Centre’s offer to protesting farmers of keeping three agri laws in abeyance for 18 months “still stands.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-plans-campaign-against-centre-across-states-over-farm-laws-101612138984627.html
01-02-2021||India||UP Police issue notice to 220 tractor owners; Oppn says move to threaten farmers||Around 200 tractor owners have been issued notices by the Uttar Pradesh police, prompting senior SP leader Ram Govind Chaudhary to allege that the move was meant to threaten the farmers.The police, however, stated that the notices have nothing to do with the farmers' protest against the Centre’s new agriculture laws."Notices have been served to 220 owners of tractors in the Sikandarpur police station area. In the notice, it has been mentioned that the tractors were used on public roads for commercial work, and minors were driving them. As a result of this, there were road accidents. The tractors were also used in illegal mining,” Bal Mukund Mishra, SHO, Sikandarpur police station told PTI.Asked if the police can issue such a notice, Regional Transport Officer Rajeshwar Yadav said he was not aware of any such thing.Meanwhile, Leader of Opposition in Uttar Pradesh Legislative Assembly, Ram Govind Chaudhary said police are trying to threaten the farmers."The farmers have tractors, and they are going to the protest site by tractors. Police have issued the notices to hinder the farmers movement,” he alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-police-issue-notice-to-220-tractor-owners-oppn-says-move-to-threaten-farmers-101612138682620.html
01-02-2021||India||Will release norms for regulating content on OTT platforms: Government||The government said on Sunday that it will soon release guidelines for regulating the content on Over the Top (OTT) platforms because it is receiving a number of complaints against some series available there.“We have received a lot of complaints against some serials available on OTT platforms. Films and serials released on OTT platforms and digital newspapers do not come under the purview of Press Council Act, Cable Television Networks (Regulation) Act or Censor Board. We will come up with some guidelines on it soon,” Union minister for information and broadcasting Prakash Javadekar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-release-norms-for-regulating-content-on-ott-platforms-government-101612137760433.html
01-02-2021||India||Took political support for farmers' movement only after democracy was mocked: Rakesh Tikait||The Sanyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) had not allowed political parties in the movement against new central farm laws but took political support "only after democracy was mocked" at protest sites, Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait said Sunday.         Tikait made the remark as hundreds of farmers reached a key protest site on the Delhi-Meerut highway in Ghazipur on the national capital's border with Uttar Pradesh where they danced to upbeat tunes, creating a festive atmosphere as more supporters continued to pour in.        Security measures were strengthened with multi-layer barricading that included iron and concrete structures, while barbed wires also came up on both sides of the highway stretch that has become the BKU's camping site since November 28 last year in a major farmers' stir over three new farm laws of the Centre.         Farmers reached the Ghazipur border from western Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Rajasthan, Uttarakhand as a turban-clad Rakesh Tikait led the charge for the BKU, the appeal of which coupled with a clarion call from a January 29 "mahapanchayat" of farmers in Muzaffarnagar has re-energised the stir, which was fast losing its sheen and momentum after the Republic Day violence in Delhi.         In response to a question, Tikait said, “the Sanyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) had not allowed political parties to enter the movement because our movement is apolitical. Support from political parties was taken only after democracy was mocked over the protests. But still, politicians are kept away from the stage of farmers' protest.”         On Sunday, Shiromani Akali Dal leader Sukhbir Singh Badal reached Ghazipur. Besides him, regional leaders of Congress, Aam Aadmi Party, Rashtriya Lok Dal, Samajwadi Party also met with BKU office-bearers, extending their support in the fight for their demand for rollback of the new laws.         “Modi saab nu kisaanan di mann di gal sunni chahidi hai (Prime Minister Narendra Modi should listen to the heart's talk of the farmers),” said Badal, whose party broke ties from the BJP-led NDA over the contentious laws last year.         Tikait said the farmer unions are hoping for a resolution of the deadlock through dialogue and if the prime minister wants to talk to the farmers, they will ensure dignity of the PM's post but also protect their self-interest.         On if and when will the farmers decide on talking to the government, Tikait said, “I am one of the 40 members of the farmers' delegation but the decision on talks would be taken by the SKM committee.”         According to the Ghaziabad administration, senior officials and police officers are regularly monitoring the situation at the Ghazipur border.         Vehicles proceeding towards and coming from the protest site are being checked while drones were deployed for aerial monitoring at the site, which had thousands of protestors on Sunday, according to officials.         "The situation is under control and is being regularly monitored," an officer of the district administration said.         The groups of farmers camping at the site braving the cold nights were seen dancing to folk tunes and songs eulogising the nation and farmers as some young protesters carried music systems to Ghazipur on their tractor-trollies.         Thousands of farmers have been protesting at Delhi's borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, demanding a rollback of the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.         The protesting farmers have expressed the apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporations.         However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring better opportunities to farmers and introduce new technologies in agriculture.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/took-political-support-for-farmers-movement-only-after-democracy-was-mocked-rakesh-tikait-101612137665487.html
01-02-2021||India||Opposition parties may attend key debates to step up pressure||The Congress and other opposition parties may join two key debates on the President’s speech and the Union Budget after launching protests over three farm laws inside and outside Parliament, according to people aware of the developments.The Opposition’s participation, however, may not come without frequent disruptions and protests, at least three leaders said after the all-party meeting a day before the presentation of the Union Budget.Parties such as the Congress, Trinamool Congress and Left outfits have prepared to push an adjournment motion on the farm issue on the morning of February 2, before a debate on the President’s speech, to amplify their stand on the issue, a leader said on condition of anonymity.At the third and last all-party meeting on Sunday over the Budget Session, the government’s managers suggested that the opposition parties can raise all issues related to the farm laws during the debate on the President’s speech and Prime Minister Narendra Modi, when he intervenes in the debate, would reply to them, another leader said. Among other senior ministers, defence minister Rajnath Singh is expected to speak in the debate, he added.At Sunday’s meeting, convened by Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu, six ministers and 25 leaders of various parties were present. A press statement said: “Chairman Naidu today made a fervent appeal to leaders of various parties to ensure effective functioning of the House during the ongoing budget session. In response, the leaders assured that there will be full participation in all the debates and discussions in the House.”Also read: Police cut off Singhu border from CapitalThe Opposition, however, plans to corner the government on the issue of the three contentious farm laws. “We will press for a separate debate on the farm issue given the gravity of the situation. But the government wants to tackle the issue in the President’s speech debate only. This might lead to another flashpoint,” another leader said, asking not to be named.Thousands of farmers have hunkered down at the Capital’s borders for more than two months to protest against the three farm laws that they say will erode their bargaining power, weaken a system of assured prices, and leave them vulnerable to exploitation by big agri businesses. The government has maintained that the laws aim to ease restrictions on farm trade by setting up free markets, allow traders to stockpile large stocks of food for future sales and lay down a framework for contract farming.On Republic Day, farmer groups broke through barricades, clashed with the Delhi Police and stormed the Red Fort, hoisting a religious flag, on its ramparts. The PM has said law will take its own course over the violence. Farmer leaders sought to distance themselves from the violence, but police have named several of them in FIRs.At the meeting, while Leader of Opposition Ghulam Nabi Azad spoke on the farmers issue, Congress chief whip Jairam Ramesh pointed out that on September 17 last year, Naidu asked the government to give a briefing on the India-China border situation but no such meeting took place. Naidu asked parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi to address the issue.Meanwhile, upcoming assembly elections are also set to find political space in the debate on the President’s speech. As per the current schedule, first-time BJP MP from West Bengal, Locket Chatterjee, will initiate the debate to send a political message to the voters of Bengal. The President’s speech to the joint sitting of the House, too, had prominent references about poll-bound Assam, Bengal and Kerala.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/opposition-parties-may-attend-key-debates-to-step-up-pressure-101612130698469.html
01-02-2021||India||Calls for PM’s number, vaccines flood 24/7 helpline for MPs||It was meant to be an exclusive, 24/7 helpline for members of the Lok Sabha to access reference notes and background material for taking part in debates. But from the start, people who staff the helpline have been kept busy fending off queries from citizens on issues that have nothing to do with Parliament.Some people have dialled the helpline to ask for Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s phone number. One person called up the staff to seek an appointment with the PM as he “needs to give the PM some advice on the farmers’ protests”, officials involved in the project said on condition of anonymity.Planned by Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla, the unique helpline became operational on the eve of the budget session that began on Friday to help MPs quickly access reference notes and background material for debates. The round-the-clock service can be availed from anywhere in the country and abroad. Because many lawmakers, especially those from the Lok Sabha, have the added responsibility of managing their constituencies, such information has been made available just a call away .But the helpline started buzzing with calls after the contact numbers were frequently flashed on the Lok Sabha TV channel that is very popular in rural belts and smaller towns. The farmers’ protests and the Covid-19 vaccines were what the citizens were most interested about.“We got many enquiries with curious people asking ‘when are we getting the Covid-19 vaccines.’ While these calls reflect genuine concerns of people, unfortunately the helpline can’t solve their issues,” said one of the officials cited above.Also read: Budget to focus on job creation, health todayTo be sure, a few calls have come from the MPs as well. “The debates in the budget session are yet to start but we have already got 4-5 lawmakers wanting notes..and background {information}. More MPs will definitely avail this service as this is the easiest way to access quality data and research material,” said another official.The assistants of some MPs, however, have also called to find out which seat is allocated for the lawmakers. In the scattered seating arrangement spread over the chamber and the galleries of the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha, all MPs have been allotted specific seat numbers to adhere to social distancing norms.Named Parliamentary Research and Information Support to Members (PRISM), the helpline to cater to the requirements of the MPs has become operational at a time when the traditional schedules of parliament sessions have been overhauled amid the pandemic.The Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha have been operating in two different schedules between 9 am and 9 pm since the monsoon session. A dedicated team of 12-13 people including officials and research assistants of PRISM will process calls and messages from MPs anytime and send them the information they need, using primary and other authentic resources.“We have created an internal database for this purpose. Also, the Lok Sabha portal has loads of content which are used for MPs,” said another official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/calls-for-pm-s-number-vaccines-flood-24-7-helpline-for-mps-101612130073176.html
01-02-2021||India||‘Vaccination rate best in world in 1st 15 days’: PM Modi||In the first Mann ki Baat address this year, Prime minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said that “India is running the world’s biggest and fastest Covid-19 vaccination drive”.The nationwide vaccination drive began on January 16. India had vaccinated close to 3.7 million health care workers until Sunday morning, with the number of vaccinations per day even crossing 500,000, according to the Union health ministry.“Just as India’s war against coronavirus became an example to the world, similarly our vaccination programme is also becoming an example to the world. India is conducting the biggest vaccination drive in the world. Do you know what is an even better matter of pride? We are not only running the world’s biggest vaccination drive but we are also the fastest in vaccinating our citizens,” Prime Minister Modi said in his 73rd episode of ‘Mann Ki Baat’.Also read: India is more than just a political or territorial entity, says PM Modi“In merely 15 days, India has vaccinated more than 30 lakhs (3 million) Covid-19 warrior, while a rich country like the US has completed the same target in 18 days and the UK in 36 days. The Made in India vaccines are not only a symbol of Atmanirbhar Bharat but they are also a symbol of self-pride,” he added.Highlighting that India is helping the world during the Covid-19 crisis, he said: “I receive messages for India from Presidents and Prime Ministers of different countries of the world... You must have noticed about the vaccination programme that India is able to help others because India today is self-reliant in the field of medicines and vaccines.”India has gifted the vaccine to several countries including Bhutan, Nepal, Sri Lanka and Bahrain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaccination-rate-best-in-world-in-1st-15-days-pm-modi-101612127060533.html
01-02-2021||India||Saddened by insult to Tricolour on R-Day: PM||The country has been saddened by the “insult to the Tricolour” on Republic Day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday in his monthly Mann Ki Baat radio address, referring to the hoisting of the Sikh religious flag and a farmers’ union flag next to the national flag by protesting farmers at Red Fort.In his first address to the nation in 2021, a day before finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman presents the Union budget in Parliament, Modi celebrated India’s vaccination drive against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and the Indian cricket team’s triumph against Australia in the Test series, and called for the infusion of a new hope.“This month, there has been very good news from the cricket pitch too,” the PM said in his radio address, which he delivers on the last Sunday of every month. ”Our cricket team, after initial setbacks, made a grand comeback, winning the series in Australia. The hard work and teamwork of our players is inspirational. Amidst all this, the country was saddened by the insult to the Tricolour on the 26th of January in Delhi.”He added: “We have to infuse times to come with new hope...Last year, we displayed exemplary patience and courage {in the fight against the viral disease}. This year too, we have to work hard to attain our resolve. We have to take our country forward at a faster pace.”Watch: India was shocked to witness insult of tricolor on Republic Day, says PM﻿A tractor rally by farmers to protest against three laws passed by Parliament in September to open up agricultural markets turned violent at Red Fort on Republic Day. In expressing his sadness at the insult to the Tricolour, Modi echoed the sentiment expressed by President Ram Nath Kovind, who said in his speech to Parliament on Friday that the “national flag and a holy day like Republic Day were insulted in the past few days.”Referring to India’s vaccination programme against the coronavirus disease that is currently underway, the Prime Minister said the country’s fight against the pandemic had been “exemplary” to the world.“My dear countrymen, the beginning of this year marks the completion of almost one year of our battle against Corona. Just as India’s fight against Corona became an example, our vaccination programme too is turning out to be exemplary to the world. Today, India is undertaking the world’s biggest Covid vaccine programme. Do you know what’s a matter of more pride?”PM Modi said India was vaccinating its citizens at a faster pace than anywhere else. “In just 15 days, India has vaccinated over 30 lakh Corona warriors whereas an advanced country such as America took 18 days to get the same done; Britain 36 days,” he said.And referring to India’s diplomatic outreach to other countries through shipments of the made-in-India Covid-19 vaccines, he said he had received messages from Presidents and Prime Ministers of countries around the world.“You must also have seen recently how the President of Brazil, in a tweet thanked India – every Indian was gladdened at that....Friends, in this vaccination programme, you must have noticed something more! During the moment of crisis, India is able to serve the world today since she is capable, self-reliant in the field of medicines, vaccines. The same thought underpins the Atmanirbhar Bharat {Self-Reliant India} campaign. The more India is capable, the more will she serve humanity; correspondingly the world will benefit more,” he added.In the backdrop of the country observing a Road Safety month between January 18 and February 17, the prime minister said road accidents were a matter of concern not just in India, but also the world over. He also said in the same context that the government’s FASTag programme had reduced idling time at toll plazas by more than half.FASTag is a radio frequency identification sticker typically fixed to a vehicle’s windscreen that allows the deduction of toll wirelessly and automatically without requiring a vehicle to stop at plazas.“Earlier, a vehicle used to take on an average seven to eight minutes to cross our toll plazas. However, since the emergence of FASTag, this time has reduced to around one and a half minutes to 2 minutes on an average. Due to this reduced waiting time at the toll plaza, fuel too is being saved. It is estimated that this will save approximately ₹21,000 crore of our countrymen,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/saddened-by-insult-to-tricolour-on-r-day-pm-101612126387741.html
01-02-2021||India||Police cut off Singhu border from Capital||With increased deployment of security personnel, four-layered barricading on the main highway connecting Delhi with Haryana, and trenches dug up on the adjacent roads, the Singhu border protest site’s connectivity with the Capital remained snapped throughout Sunday, leading to disruptions in supplies and movement of people.As internet services remained suspended in and around the Singhu border protest venue – thousands are agitating against three contentious farm laws at the site – for the third consecutive day, farmers alleged that the step was taken to stop their voices from reaching the rest of the world.“It (the government) wants to spread its false spin around farmers. It is also fearful of the coordinated work of the farmers’ unions across different protest sites and is trying to cut off communication means between them. This is undemocratic and illegal,” Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), the umbrella body of 40 farmers unions that are part of the agitation against the three contentious farm laws, said in a statement on Sunday.Also read: Ready for talks but not under pressure, says Rakesh TikaitAs per the government’s order, internet services at three borders points – Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur – were suspended from January 29 till 11pm on Sunday. The police denied allegations that the Singhu area was completely cut off, saying that movement and supplies of essential items continued through alternative routes.“As the police have blocked all the roads and sub-lanes and are not allowing us to cross over, we have not been able to use the portable toilets or the water tankers arranged by the Delhi government since yesterday (Saturday). We are now completely dependent on the toilets and water supplies of local residents,” said Dilbagh Singh, a farmer from Punjab’s Sangrur, who has been running a langar at the border point, close to the police’s barricades.Questioning the cordoning off of the protest sites, the SKM said it was being done to disrupt basic supplies such as food and water. “All these various attacks of the government are recognised by us as such, and we condemn the same,” read the SKM’s statement.Apart from farmers, people travelling between Delhi and Haryana also faced problems because of the police blockade.“I have walked more than four kilometers in the fields and through the local villages just to cross the Singhu border. It’s the farmers and local residents who helped me with the alternative routes. There is police everywhere and barricades on every entry-exit point,” said Sunil Sabbharwal, who was coming to Delhi from Karnal and carrying his luggage on his head.Reacting to the farmers’ allegations, senior police officers said that while the connectivity between Delhi and the Singhu border was stopped through the main highway, they diverted the traffic and supplies of essential items through alternative routes.An officer said that the security and barricading was tightened following the conflict between the farmers and local residents witnessed on Friday and Saturday over the issue of clearing the roads, and the violence at the Red Fort and other places in Delhi on January 26.Also read: Delhi Police tracking owners of tractors that took wrong routeThe farmers’ protest at the Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur borders against the farm laws entered the 68th day on Sunday. On Republic Day, farmer groups broke through barricades, clashed with the Delhi Police and stormed the Red Fort, hoisting the Nishan Sahib, the flag of the Sikhs, on its ramparts.“We have beefed up the security to avoid any further clashes between the farmers and the locals, who say that their businesses have been affected for over two months due to the agitation. Also, many protesters armed with sticks, swords, and other sharp weapons are roaming around. It is another reason why we have increased the police presence. The supplies of the farmers at the Singhu border from Delhi are being allowed through the alternative routes,” said Sanjay Singh, special commissioner of police (law and order, west zone).The crowd at the Singhu border continued swelling throughout Sunday as hundreds of farmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, arrived on tractors and other vehicles with ration, water, vegetables and other supplies. The protesters also ramped up vigil at the protest site and volunteers carrying sticks were seen taking regular rounds in the backdrop of Friday’s violence and Saturday’s protests by people claiming to be locals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/police-cut-off-singhu-border-from-capital-101612125355962.html
01-02-2021||India||India hands over mobile harbour cranes to Chabahar port authorities||India on Sunday formally handed over two 140-tonne mobile harbour cranes to the authorities of the Chabahar port in Iran and both sides reviewed their overall cooperation in developing the transit hub.Located in the Sistan-Balochistan province on the energy-rich Iran's southern coast, the port is being developed by India, Iran and Afghanistan to boost trade ties.An Indian delegation, led by Joint Secretary (Pakistan-Afghanistan-Iran) in the External Affairs Ministry JP Singh handed over the cranes, according to Indian Embassy in Iran."Mr JP Singh, JS(PAI) @Meaindia handed over two 140 ton mobile harbor cranes, the first shipment of equipment being supplied by India, for the development of phase-I of Shahid Beheshti port in Chabahar," it tweeted.The first phase of the project was inaugurated in December 2017.It is learnt that both sides also reviewed the overall cooperation in developing the port which is being increasingly seen as a fulcrum of connectivity to Central Asia.Last month, India, Iran and Uzbekistan held their first trilateral talks to explore ways for joint use of the port for trade and enhancing regional connectivity.The trilateral meeting took place in the backdrop of India pitching for participation of Uzbekistan in the International North South Transport Corridor (INSTC) project.The INSTC is a 7,200-km-long multi-mode transport project for moving freight among India, Iran, Afghanistan, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Russia, Central Asia and Europe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-hands-over-mobile-harbour-cranes-to-chabahar-port-authorities-101612118540270.html
01-02-2021||India||SoPs for cinema halls and theatres to operate at 100% capacity released||Starting Monday, the cinema halls and theatres across the country can now function with 100% seating capacity but adequate physical distancing measures have to be followed outside the auditoriums, common areas and waiting areas at all times, according to the standard operating procedures (SOPs) issued by the Centre on Sunday.The multiplexes have been asked to follow staggered show timings to avoid crowding and longer intermissions have been recommended so that the audience seated in different rows of the auditorium can move in a staggered manner.The SOPs/guidelines, issued by the ministry of information and broadcasting, state that no exhibition of films will be allowed in cinema halls located inside containment zones. The ministry of home affairs had, on January 27, issued new reopening guidelines in which it was decided that cinema halls can function with more than 50% capacity and swimming pools can open as well for the general public.Apart from physical distancing of at least 6 feet at common areas and staggered show timings, the I&B ministry has recommended that digital booking of tickets should be encouraged and contact number of the ticket-holder should be taken at the time of booking to facilitate contact tracing. Only the asymptomatic persons will be allowed inside any show.The government said that the use of face masks inside the halls and theatres will be mandatory at all times and people should strictly follow respiratory etiquettes. “This involves strict practice of covering one’s mouth and nose while coughing/sneezing with a tissue/handkerchief/flexed elbow and disposing off used tissues properly. Self-monitoring of health by all and reporting any illness at the earliest to state and district helpline,” the guidelines say. It adds that spitting shall be strictly prohibited inside the premises.The box office shall be open throughout the day and advance booking should be allowed to avoid crowding at the sale counters.Another important direction in the latest SOPs is to operate air-conditioning inside the cinema halls in the range of 24-30 degree Celsius.“Relative humidity should be in the range of 40-70%. Re-circulation of air to be avoided to the extent possible and intake of fresh air should be as much as possible,” the SOPs state. There should also be adequate cross ventilation inside the hall, it added.The cinema hall operators have been asked to conduct thermal screening of visitors/staff at entry points.“Only asymptomatic individuals shall be allowed to enter the premises. Provisions for hand sanitization should be made available at all entry points and in work areas. Designated queue markers shall be made available for entry and exit of the audience from the auditorium and the premises. The exit should be done in a staggered row-wise manner to avoid crowding,” according to the SOPs.The government added that there should be a sufficient time interval between successive screenings on a single screen as well as on various screens in a multiplex to ensure row-wise staggered entry and exit of the audience.Cinema halls and theatre operators have been asked to maintain proper distancing in food and beverage areas and parking lots.Also Read: India promises Israel after blast near embassy in DelhiThe cinema hall owners have also been asked to frequently sanitize the entire premises, common facilities, and all points which come into human contact, e.g. handles, railings, etc.“Regular cleaning and disinfection of the box office, food and beverage areas, employees and staff lockers, toilets, public areas, and back office areas shall be ensured. Measures for the safety of sanitization staff such as adequate provisions for rational use of gloves, boots, masks, PPE, etc. shall be undertaken,” it said.The states have freedom to propose additional measures for cinema halls/theatres based on their field assessment, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sops-for-cinema-halls-and-theatres-to-operate-at-100-capacity-released-101612071804420.html
01-02-2021||NA||Farm stir LIVE: Haryana govt extends suspension of internet services||Numerous farmer leaders said on Saturday that there would be a record gathering of peasants and farm labourers on border points in Delhi on Tuesday as more and more farmers were moving towards the national capital. The protest against the three news farms laws passed by the parliament in September has entered day 67.Also Read| ‘Not going to war’: Farmers’ leader calls for peaceful protestThe Union home ministry on Saturday had temporarily suspended internet services at Singhu, Ghazipur, and Tikri borders till 11pm tonight. An official said that the decision was taken in order to “maintain public safety and averting public emergency” under Temporary Suspension of Telecom Services (Public Emergency or Public Safety) Rules 2017. The services were first suspended in some parts of Delhi and NCR on Republic Day (Tuesday) when violence erupted during the tractor rally.Also Read| ‘Repeal of laws must to resolve impasse’: SAD president Sukbir Singh BadalMeanwhile, Prime Minister Narendra Modi during his Mann Ki Baat Radio broadcast said that the country was shocked to see the insult of the Tricolour on Republic Day after a religious flag was hoisted at the Red Fort during the tractor march taken out by the farmers.Follow all the updates here:Haryana government extends suspension of mobile internet servicesHaryana government extends suspension of mobile internet services in 14 districts till 5 pm on February 1 to "prevent any disturbance of peace and public order" amid protests,.Opposition leaders coming out of empathy: Rakesh Tikait"The Opposition leaders must be coming out of empathy. There's no point for them to look for votes here. We will talk to the government as we believe that the issue can only be solved with dialogue," says Rakesh Tikait of Bharatiya Kisan Union.Farm bills will neither affect APMC nor MSP, reiterates Tomar"The latest farm bills will neither affect APMC nor MSP. I think Sharad Pawar Sahab has been misinformed about the facts of the bill. I hope he will understand the correct facts and change his stand," says Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar.SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal meets Rakesh TikaitShiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal meets farmers' leader Rakesh Tikait. "I congratulate Rakesh Tikait ji for his fight against the farm laws. All farmers are grateful to him, our party stands with him," said Badal after meeting Tikait at Ghazipur border.Agriculture minister responds to Sharad Pawar's criticism of farm lawsUnion agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Sunday responded to Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar after he posted a critique of new farm laws that have fuelled massive protests over the last two months in the country. Tomar hoped that Pawar "will change his stand" and "explain the benefits of the laws to farmers." He also said Pawar is such a veteran leader, "I would like to believe that he was genuinely misinformed of the facts." Read moreInternet services being restored: Haryana CMWe spent all year under Covid's shadow. Everything went digital including students' classes. I believe govt has taken steps to curtail internet due to situation after Jan 26 but services are being restored. PM said again the possibility for talks are open: Haryana CM ML KhattarAAP writes to Punjab CM, seeks deployment of policeAam Aadmi Party's Raghav Chadha writes to Punjab CM Captain Amarinder Singh seeking deployment of Punjab police at protests site. "AAP demands that you deploy Punjab Police in sufficient numbers to surround the camps where the peaceful protests are being held from all sides," Chadha said in the letter.Farmers 'ill-treatment' by PM Modi, Shah, may trigger unrest: Sanjay RautShiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Sunday cautioned the Central government over its handling of the ongoing farmers' protests against the three farm laws and said that the country has already experienced what happens when a spark of revolt was lit in the Sikh community. Read moreFarmers' agitation enters 65th dayProtest at Ghazipur (Delhi-Uttar Pradesh) border against the Centre's three farm laws continues for the 65th day.INLD's Abhay Chautala on his way to Gazipurथोड़ी देर में हजारों किसानों के साथ गाजीपुर बॉर्डर पहुंच रहा हूँ! सरकार की हर साजिश का मुंह तोड़ जबाव देंगे ||#farmersrprotest #किसान_एकता_जिंदाबाद pic.twitter.com/4etFiDL0dtIndian National Lok Dal (INLD) leader Abhay Chautala is on his way to Gazipur border. "Reaching Ghazipur border with thousands of farmers in a while! Will reply to breaking the government's conspiracy, " Chautala tweeted.There won't be any agreement under pressure, says Rakesh TikaitThere won't be any agreement under pressure. We will hold discussions on the issue, Prime Minister is ours also, we are thankful for his initiative, we will respect it. We want our people to be released: Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait https://t.co/K4oi2VcQnW pic.twitter.com/pyfSHpfH5XResponding to PM Modi's message on Saturday where he said that the Centre's offer on farm laws made to the farmers on January 22 would still remain, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) spokesperson Rakesh Tikait thanked the Prime Minister for this initiative and added that there would be no agreement made under pressure.Govt should release our men, says farmer leader Naresh TikaitFarmer union leader Naresh Tikait requested the Centre to release the protesters and also prepare a platform for talks. “A respectful solution should be reached. We will never agree to anything under pressure,” Tikait told news agency PTI.Jan 26 violence was a conspiracy by the BJP, says SisodiaDelhi chief minister Manish Sisodia said that the violence which broke out during the Republic Day tractor rally was a conspiracy by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Sisodia further added that not only the BJP's, but also Prime Minister Narendra Modi's credibility had been dented due to lies over farm laws.India was shocked to witness the insult of Tricolour on January 26Speaking about the violence that broke out during the farmers' tractor rally on Republic Day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said that the country was shocked to witness the insult of the Tricolour on that day.Haryana Congress to begin peace march in support of protestersHaryana Pradesh Congress Committee (HPCC) president Kumari Selja said on Saturday that the party would organise a peace march in every block of the state between February 3 to 5 in support of the protesting farmers. "BJP government was crossing all limits of shamelessness. All tactics were being adopted by the party to declare the farmers as traitors," she further alleged.Security remains tightened at Singhu border in DelhiDelhi: Security deployment continues at Singhu border as farmers' protest against three agriculture laws enters 67th day; latest visuals from near the protest site. pic.twitter.com/tEUzhpjwjSHeavy security deployment continued at the Singhu border in the national capital as the farmers' agitation against the central government's three new farm laws entered day 67. On Friday, clashes broke out between the protesters and local residents at the protest site and a minimum of 44 people have been arrested by the Police.Delhi Police file 38 FIRs, arrest 84 people in connection with Republic Day violenceThe Delhi Police said on Saturday that it had registered 38 FIRs and arrested 84 people in connection with the violence that broke out during the tractor rally on Republic Day. The Police added that the crime branch had obtained 1,700 mobile clips and CCTV footage of the chaos in the national capital from the general public.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmerss-protest-live-updates-jan-31-2020-101612056983818.html
01-02-2021||India||After NSA Doval’s phone call, PM Netanyahu sends a message to PM Modi||Israel’s Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu on Friday expressed ‘full confidence’ in the Indian authorities’ investigation into the bomb blast near Israel’s embassy in New Delhi earlier in the evening, a spokesman for Israel's prime minister tweeted.The “very low intensity” explosion was reported in the national capital’s high-security zone at 5.05 pm, around the same time that President Ramnath Kovind and Prime Minister Narendra Modi were attending the Beating Retreat ceremony less than 2 km away.The government promptly went into overdrive to reassure Israel that it would take all steps to protect the embassy and its diplomats as well as track down the perpetrators.An Israeli diplomat on her way to pick her children from school was grievously injured in a bomb blast back in 2012. India was able to identify four Iranian nationals as the prime suspects and sent a team to Tehran to trace them. But they could not be arrested. An Indian journalist was arrested for helping the bombers.Foreign minister S Jaishankar phoned his Israeli counterpart, Gabi Ashkenazi, with a bunch of assurances, pledging that New Delhi would spare no effort to trace the culprits. “We take this very seriously,” Jaishankar said.Similar assurances were extended at different levels. Foreign secretary Harsh Shringla spoke with his counterpart Alon Ushpitz, secretary Sanjay Bhattacharyya, who oversees relations with West Asia, spoke to Israeli ambassador Ron Malka and National Security Adviser Ajit Doval dialled his counterpart Meir Ben-Shabbat.Also Read: Will spare no effort, India promises Israel after blast near embassyPM Netanyahu’s office said NSA Doval updated Meir Ben-Shabbat and through him, PM Netanyahu on the efforts made by India to investigate the explosion.“PM Netanyahu asked to inform India's PM @narendramodi that Israel has full confidence in the Indian authorities' investigation and in their ability to ensure the safety of Israelis and Jews in India,” Ofir Gendelman, the prime minister’s spokesperson to the Arab media, tweeted. He said it was agreed that contacts will continue on all channels and that there will be full cooperation between the two countries.It was agreed that contacts will continue on all channels and that there will be full cooperation between the two countries.The Delhi Police had initially suggested that the explosion could be “a mischievous attempt to create a sensation”. But later, officials acknowledged that the explosion was being treated as a “terrorist attack”.Investigations revealed that the bomb had been thrown near the embassy from a moving car. Investigators, who wished not to be named, said the explosive recovered from the spot was suspected to be ammonium nitrate mixed with fuel oil, with small ball bearings as shrapnels.An envelope was also found near the blast site in which the attackers are suspected to have left a message for the embassy.In a video message released later, the Israeli ambassador Ron Malka referred to the multiple levels at which the two sides have been in touch.“We get full cooperation and support from the local police, from the Indian authorities, the ministry of external affairs, the secretary of external affairs, the NSA – they all called their counterparts in Israel, offered their support,” Malka said, underlining that the explosion had taken place “when we mark 29 years [of] the establishment of full diplomatic relations between Israel and India”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/have-full-confidence-pm-netanyahu-messages-pm-modi-after-blast-near-embassy-101611945991887.html
01-02-2021||Today's||The big gap in the budget - an expenditure thrust||Finance minister (FM) Nirmala Sitharaman opened her budget speech with two overarching points. First, she asserted that unlike in the other two instances since 1947, the contraction of the economy in the current year is due to a global force, namely the pandemic. This presumably absolves her government of criticism of how the fallout could have been handled. Second, she claimed that the overall policy response to Covid-19 in 2020-21, by the central government and Reserve Bank of India (RBI) combined, amounted to 13% of the Gross Domestic Product (GDP).Taking the second point first, it must be pointed out that the liquidity enhancement by the central bank does not count as a stimulus, for while it makes it easier for firms to borrow, it does not, by itself, increase demand. If the measures undertaken by RBI are excluded, the stimulating role of the government in 2020-21 would be far lower. The International Monetary Fund pegs it at less so that 2% of the GDP by October, among the lowest for emerging market economies. It implies that though the negative shock was global, the government of India did little by way of a stimulus to counter its economic impact. This reluctance to stimulate the economy has found its way even into this budget.It is in the area of health that the budget is striking, with a 137% increase in spending compared to the previous year. This is impressive in itself, but so are the details of expenditure — to be spread over laboratories in every district, strengthening of the Jal Jeevan Mission, a national institute of virology and interventions to reduce air pollution. But the most significant part of the health budget is the provision of ₹35,000 crore for vaccination, with FM promising more funds if needed. It would have been interesting to know the details of the government’s plans for pricing and allocation of the vaccine, but the provision along with the promise of enhancement is sufficient to allow for free vaccination for a section of the population.While increased health spending is the need of the hour, there was a case for transferring at least some part of it to states, which is where provisions mostly takes place, as health is a state subject. Nevertheless, a significant beginning has been made by flagging the importance of health for both the economy and our well-being, and it is hoped that the states will be moved to increase their health spending by re-orienting their budgets.The second noteworthy element of the budget is the focus on infrastructure. It was correctly stated that for the government’s aim of a ₹5 trillion economy to succeed, more manufacturing is needed, and that manufacturing needs infrastructure. For privately financed infrastructure, a bill is to be moved within the year to establish a development finance institution. The aim is for this bank to grow a ₹5 lakh crore portfolio within three years. This is good news, as only long-term lending institutions can finance the building of infrastructure.As far as public investment is concerned, the numbers are significant. At ₹5.54 lakh crore, the spending is more than 30% greater that the budget estimates of the previous year, though less in relation to the revised estimates for 2020-21. A significant part of this is to be financed by the monetisation of public assets. Given the acute shortage of public infrastructure, it makes sense to transfer funds from public sector production units to this segment through privatisation. At the same time, there is a case for earmarking public land exclusively for production avoiding other uses of it, such as for luxury housing, for land is scarce in India. Finally, the suggestion made that foreign investment be attracted to build domestic infrastructure seems to be a pipedream.While the enhanced spending on health and capital goods is significant, it can be misleading to assume that this represents the budget’s overall expenditure thrust. In fact, there is no thrust at all. The expenditure budgeted for 2021-22 is less than 1% higher than the revised estimates for the current year. It is in this sense that there is no immediate stimulus in this budget despite the developments with respect to the health and infrastructure sectors.With no increase in public expenditure in the budget, there is reason to doubt the government’s claims on the economic recovery that may be expected from it. It is difficult to find in it a coherent strategy for growth in a contracting economy. In the absence of policies that raise profit expectations, the private sector is likely to wait for an expansion of the economy before investing.Without a sizeable increase in private investment or a major revival in exports, unlikely right now as the global economy is weak, the government alone can lift the economy. This it has refused to do, privileging fiscal consolidation over an economic recovery. Under the circumstances we face today, reducing the fiscal deficit is not prudence; it is a premature withdrawal of sustenance to a struggling economy.Pulapre Balakrishnan is professor of economics at Ashoka University, Sonipat, HaryanaThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-big-gap-in-the-budget-an-expenditure-thrust-101612199369364.html
01-02-2021||Today's||The government’s arithmetic jugglery cast a shadow over the budget’s right direction||Let me start with a deceptively simple quiz. In February 2020, finance minister (FM) Nirmala Sitharaman budgeted ₹67,000 crore on health expenditure. In February 2021, it is known that the government spent ₹82,000 crore in health due to the pandemic. Now, FM has announced a health budget of ₹74,000 crore for next year. Does this represent an increase in the government’s health budget or a decrease?Sitharaman called it a “big increase” because ₹74,000 crore is higher than the original budget of ₹67,000 crore of last year. Of course, last year was an exception. But is it correct to claim that the government will spend more on health next year when public hospitals, health centres and medical practitioners on the ground will have less money than they did last year? This example aptly describes the theme of the budget.Before the budget, former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, former FM P Chidambaram and I laid out a blueprint that called for enhanced public investment to spur the economy, until an ailing private sector can recover to steer it. Hence, the bulk of the focus of India’s first budget for the post-Covid-19 era was rightfully on public expenditure and must be assessed through this prism.The government plans to spend ₹34.8 lakh crore next year. But the government spent ₹34.5 lakh crore last year and, on that basis, this is not a big increase. Again, FM compared it to the original budget expenditure of ₹30.4 lakh crore last year. In nearly every major expenditure head, this was a recurring theme.The government has budgeted ₹73,000 crore for the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) for next year, which is much higher than the ₹61,500 crore budgeted for last year, but significantly lower than ₹111,500 crore actually spent on MGNREGS in FY2021. In reality, demand for MGNREGS work continued to rise even in January 2021, signalling the lack of income opportunities for a vast majority of people.When the budget for next year is reduced from what was spent last year, it is bound to affect the millions of families that depend on it for their livelihoods, while for the sake of headlines, FM can proclaim that the MGNREGS budget has been increased significantly from last year’s budgeted amount.The arithmetic sorcery apart, the government has truly increased overall capital expenditure from 13% to 16% of total expenditure, which is very laudable. Government capital expenditure can translate into jobs and incomes for millions and also catalyse demand in the larger economy. While our blueprint was more aggressive in calling for 20% of the total expenditure as capital expenditure, the budgeted increase is a commendable step. There were also some creditable steps to attract private capital for infrastructure investments, which if it fructifies, can help usher in a new growth cycle for the economy.Ardent advocates of electoral democracy would have gleamed on hearing FM’s unabashed opportunistic but judicious allocations for building roads and other infrastructure in election-bound states, proving the fundamental premise of political science that democracy is the best means to reconcile disparities. FM also provided for a 60% increase in revenue deficit grants to states. Any devolution of powers and resources is a welcome move. Perhaps every state should change its election schedule to April or May, in between national elections.Phrases such as privatisation and monetisation were bandied about enough in FM’s speech to thrill the stock market, which is easily excitable. Over the last few years, a handful of corporates in the country, through their proximity to the government, have amassed enormous market power that can be severely detrimental to the consumer and the larger economy in the long run. Economic history teaches us that no privatisation is better than crony privatisation. So, while phrases such as “choice and efficiency for consumers” that FM uttered to make the case for privatisation may sound endearing, the devil lies in the details of the process.The budget also revealed India’s vulnerable macro-economic situation in terms of deficits and borrowing. The transparency measures taken to reduce off-balance sheet financing and include it in the budget are praiseworthy, which should help allay concerns of the international ratings agencies.It is no secret that India’s economic situation is ugly with soaring inequality, a choked financial system and a nervous private sector. Prudent public investment and a robust social safety net are what can prevent India from falling off the precipice of the economic cliff.Needless clever-by-half means of proclaiming big increases in public expenditure through arithmetic jugglery will only exacerbate the trust deficit between the government and the real economy. While the budget was directionally right, the government’s penchant for headlines, sophistry and exaggeration cast a shadow on Budget 2021-22.Praveen Chakravarty is a political economist and senior office-bearer of the Congress The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-government-s-arithmetic-jugglery-cast-a-shadow-over-the-budget-s-right-direction-101612199309144.html
01-02-2021||Today's||Sharply focused, the budget boosts hopes of revival||There is nothing that sharpens the mind quite as much as a crisis. This was reflected in the brevity and precision of finance minister (FM) Nirmala Sitharaman’s budget speech, which was one-third shorter than her speech last year.The budget signals where the government’s priorities lie. This government, in its fight against Covid -19, has had to bear the brunt of 70 years of underspending on health care. It has unsurprisingly focused on the sector through an expansion of expenditure on health and nutrition from ₹94,000 crore to over ₹2.2 lakh crore. As recommended by many economists, the budget provides a strong Keynesian stimulus. There is a significant enhancement of allocation to existing water supply and sanitation programmes. Highways and metro rail construction projects were prominent within the first 30 minutes of the FM’s speech. The common theme running through these sectors is that old-fashioned construction spending, funded by a capital expenditure programme, up from ₹4 lakh crore to over ₹5.5 lakh crore, should create a degree of demand transmission.High-value infrastructure creation requires financial institutions to manage flows of capital. There is a proposal to create an Infrastructure Development Financial Institution to fill the space that was once occupied by IDBI, IFCI and IDFC. There is also an understanding that some markets will not develop unless the government steps in to create basic infrastructure. The proposal to create a market-making entity for investment grade bonds and the removal of tax restrictions on INVITS (infrastructure investment trusts) and REITS (real estate investment trusts) aims to address bottlenecks within these markets.The government also needs to bring public sector banks, with non-performing assets (NPAs), back to the lending fold. It is addressing this reluctance to lend with the creation of a monolithic asset reconstruction company. This has a certain appeal. The Troubled Asset Relief Program in the United States, after the Lehman crisis, ultimately succeeded in recovering nearly 100% of its asset value. There is a logical belief that moving NPAs into such an entity will free banks to return to credit provision. What needs to be ensured is that these assets are transferred in a transparent manner at the right value, which does not paper over the true NPA levels of the selling banks. The budget recognises that India’s problems are uniquely messy and require a preparedness to compromise on small inefficiencies. The reduction of tax audits for small companies, a commitment to not reopen income tax assessments after three years, and the simplification of tax filing for senior citizens may not make a difference to the economy as a whole, but helps focus state capacity in areas that are more useful.A consequence of this overall approach is move into a high-deficit regime. This year’s fiscal deficit of 9.5% is the highest since the 1991 crisis, and the government will be living with deficits of at least 4% until 2025-26. This is a dramatic commitment from the government to prime the pump of the economy. There was a fear that, faced with a crisis, the government would resort to an aggressive taxation programme which would stifle demand. Through a Marshall Plan-like commitment to spending on infrastructure and health expenditure, and yet largely permitting private sector animal spirits (such as they remain after Covid-19) to remain intact, the government has balanced some very difficult priorities.The plans articulated in the budget are largely within the government’s control. This is in contrast to budgets that focus on reduction in duties, offering tax breaks or steps to attract capital — all of which depend on the response of the private sector. To that extent, one can feel a little more confident about the successful consummation of the activities in this budget. In the budget, by focusing on a few objectives, the government has perhaps achieved more.Govind Sankaranarayanan, a former COO and CFO of Tata Capital, is currently vice chairman at ESG Fund ECube Investment Adviser The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/sharply-focused-the-budget-boosts-hopes-of-revival-101612199133734.html
01-02-2021||Today's||A Union Budget that bets on growth||The 2021-22 Union Budget has exceeded all expectations. This is reflected in the sharpest budget day rise in both the Nifty and Sensex since February 2001. The markets as well as the experts are cheering finance minister (FM) Nirmala Sitharaman’s boldness in focusing almost exclusively on accelerating growth and, thereby, generating large scale employment.She has jettisoned the Fiscal Responsibility and Management Act’s import of fiscal conservatism. The budget has launched the economy on a virtuous cycle of growth, which will imply rising tax revenues, higher non-tax resource mobilisation, and ramping up credit flows from the banking and financial sectors to infrastructure, micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs), and agriculture. This will ensure that our debt-to-Gross Domestic Product (GDP) ratios will decline once the economy is on a higher growth path. The higher liquidity available in the banking sector will help absorb higher level of government borrowing, without stocking inflationary pressures or raising bond yields.The 137% increase in the health sector outlays is a bold response to the pandemic’s requirement for improving the public health infrastructure. This higher outlay will be used to strengthen the existing health and system and also supporting 17,000 health and wellness centres in rural and 11,000 in urban areas. Over and above this, the budget also allocates ₹2.86 lakh crores for Jal Jeevan Mission in urban areas and ₹1.67 lakh crore for the Swachh Bharat Urban Mission over the next five years. This outlay will also help to improve health outcomes. The allocation of ₹2,027 crore for improving air quality in cities with more than one million population, and the introduction of voluntary scrappage policy, will help battle pollution. While allocating ₹35,000 crores for the roll-out of the vaccine programme, the FM was careful in pointing out that additional funds would be made available as and when required.The highlight of the budget has been its laser-like focus on ramping up public capital expenditure for improving the physical infrastructure of the country. The budget allocates ₹5.54 lakh crore for capital expenditure — a 34% increase over the ₹4.12 lakh crore allocated in the previous year. If we include the additional ₹2 lakh crore to be transferred to the states for helping them raise their own capital expenditure, it represents a whopping increase of 70% over the previous year capital expenditure. This is unprecedented.This capital expenditure will see the highest ever allocation of ₹1.08 lakh crore of capital expenditure for the ministry of road, transport and highways; ₹1.07 lakh crores for railways; ₹18,000 crores for public transport in urban areas; extension of city gas distribution system to another 100 cities; and higher allocation of inland waterways, ports and airports. This outlay on infrastructure projects will generate significant multiplier effects, thereby generating employment and faster growth in the coming years.The budget has laid out a very ambitious package for raising non-tax revenue. For the first time, a concrete pipeline has been prepared with a dashboard for close monitoring for effective implementation. This effort will be supplemented by an active disinvestment programme, which will include several companies such as BPCL, Air India, Pawan Hans, CONCOR, SCI and BEML. Work on disinvestment is in an advanced stage and will be surely completed within this year. Its highlight is the inclusion of two public sector banks and one general insurance company, which are slated to be disinvested, and the listing of the Life Insurance Corporation, through an IPO, in the coming fiscal year. The FM has also announced the monetisation of surplus land holdings. All these together are expected to yield ₹1.75 lakh crore and will also ensure a larger space for private investors and entrepreneurs.The budget proposes a number of structural reforms. These include establishing an independent pipeline operator; raising the foreign direct investment limit from 49% to 74% in the insurance sector so as to attract higher foreign capital inflows; establishing a development finance institute with a capital of ₹20,000 crore; setting up an Asset Reconstruction and Management company to help clean up the balance sheet of commercial banks so that they can start lending in full measures to various sectors in the economy; incorporating another 1,000 mandis in the e-Nam framework; expanding “operation green” to 22 perishable crops; establishing the higher education commission for implementing the reforms recommended by the New Education Policy; allocating ₹50,000 crore for the next five years to operationalise the national research foundation for encouraging front-line technologies in India; and complete exemption for senior citizens above 75 years for filing income tax returns.This impressive list of structural reforms, though not exhaustive, will lay a strong foundation for the Indian economy to sustain high rates of growth and employment generation in the coming decade.This is a landmark budget as it improves both ease of doing business and also ease of living for women. It attempts to minimise the regulatory and compliance burden imposed on the taxpayers, especially corporate taxpayers and facilitates the growth of MSMEs. This will ensure that the Indian manufacturing sector, which has already been given a huge boost by the production-linked incentive scheme announced for the 13 sectors, will now gather fresh momentum and see India’s share in global trade rising at a faster rate.Rajiv Kumar is the vice-chairman of Niti AayogThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/a-union-budget-that-bets-on-growth-101612195530712.html
01-02-2021||Today's||The Union Budget will unleash animal spirits and enthuse investors||Finance minister (FM) Nirmala Sitharaman has delivered a truly historic and ambitious budget. It comes after a year of economic contraction caused by the pandemic and lockdown. The initial national priority was to save lives against an unseen killer virus, and hence the harsh lockdown, which resulted in a demand and supply shock.India has been exceptionally successful in “flattening the curve” and keeping fatalities low. But as we prepare for the post-pandemic economy, we needed a big fiscal boost. This has led to the usual dilemma of whether to obey the diktat of fiscal prudence or to tilt towards fiscal extravagance. The Economic Survey had clearly indicated its preference towards fiscal expansion. The FM correctly identified that the need of the hour is to be bold, unafraid of rating agencies, and that is what the budget provides.The strong growth stimulus is in the form of a much higher allocation for spending on infrastructure. The benefits of infra-assets that are thus created, whether in terms of roads, highways, ports or airports, are for the benefit of several generations into the future. Hence, it makes sense to finance them with resources raised from both the current and future unborn taxpayers, that is to say, from current taxes and future borrowing. And, thus, the enhanced spending relies on a higher fiscal deficit of about 6.8% of Gross Domestic Product (GDP) to be brought down to 4.5% in the next four years.This is a credible, honest and realistic glide path of debt financing. It is also sustainable because, as such, India’s debt-to-GDP ratio is on the lower side, as compared to its G20 peers. The world is currently awash with plenty of liquidity and the extremely low interest rate regime will continue in the foreseeable future. India’s high growth potential is attractive to global funds seeking a higher return.By making it easier for foreign sovereign wealth and pension funds to invest in India’s infrastructure, the budget has greatly improved the outlook for infra development in the next few years. It will lead to massive construction activity, and also create significant employment. And such public investment will crowd in more private investment, and will reduce logistics and transportation costs and increase industrial productivity. There is a considerable push given to the creation of large-scale affordable housing, which is also part of infrastructure. The budget provides money for the creation of a development financial institution which can access long term funds for long gestation projects.Beyond hard infrastructure are health and education sectors, which can be called India’s soft infrastructure. Investment in them enhances human capital and increases long-term growth rates and prosperity. The budget has correctly given extra emphasis on these two social sectors, especially creating a widespread network of quality primary health and education centres. India has to more than double its expenditure on health, as a share of GDP, to be comparable to peer countries. It has a proven capability to synthesise the lifesaving vaccine, which is now also being exported to other countries. Beyond the pharmaceutical sector, the other parts of the entire health care sector need much more funding, which this budget has provided.The other notable feature, described as one of the pillars which form the basis of the budget, is the role of the private sector. The FM called it the asset monetisation programme which has been ongoing, and will now be accelerated. That means that several public sector entities will be opened up for this investment or privatisation, including two prominent public sector banks as well as a general insurance company owned by the government. The government intends to get out of all non-strategic sectors, leaving them for the creative energy and innovation of the private sector.This historic budget is sure to unleash animal spirits and enthuse investors. The virtuous cycle of consumer and business confidence is what is needed to take the economy into the high growth orbit. Only high economic growth can create the resources needed for a just and inclusive society.Kumar Mangalam Birla is the chairman of the Aditya Birla GroupThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-union-budget-will-unleash-animal-spirits-and-enthuse-investors-101612195470694.html
01-02-2021||Today's||Where the budget gets India’s economy wrong||What is the basic economic philosophy of the 2021-22 Union Budget? Two sets of numbers can answer this question. Let us look at the tax projections first. The 2021-22 Budget Estimate (BE) for Gross Tax Revenue is ₹22.17 lakh crore, which is lower than 2020-21 BE figures of ₹24.23 lakh crore. The shortfall would have been higher if collections from Union excise duties (basically taxes on petrol-diesel) had not increased by ₹68,000 crore between 2020-21 and 2021-22 BE figures. Tax rates have not been changed in this budget. Taxes are a fraction of income. This means the budget itself assumes that personal and business incomes in 2021-22 will not reach levels which should have been achieved in 2020-21. Lower incomes will also mean lower demand. Take government spending figures now. The BE for total central government spending for 2021-22 is ₹34.83 lakh crore. The Revised Estimate (RE) for total central spending in 2020-21 is ₹34.5 lakh crore. The Gross Domestic Product (GDP) deflator — if one takes 14.4% nominal GDP growth projection for 2021-22 given in the budget and 11% real GDP forecast given in the latest Economic Survey — comes to 3.4%. This means that central spending should have increased to at least ₹35.7 lakh crore to keep it unchanged in real terms. The fact that it has not happened implies that the 2021-22 budget entails a negative fiscal stimulus to the economy. If one reads both sets of numbers together, the macroeconomic takeaway is clear. The budget has pinned its hopes on supply-side economics, while the economy is facing a demand-side crisis.To be sure, one could argue that 2020-21 was an abnormal year — and, therefore, the government is justified in rolling back its welfare spending push, as the economy gets unlocked and vaccination gains momentum. This is in keeping with the government’s view that the economy is already on the rising side of a V-shaped recovery curve. But this argument is overoptimistic. If the economy were indeed on a V-shaped recovery path, why are the government’s tax projections for 2021-22 lower than what they were a year ago? There is an additional problem with what is a premature withdrawal of the fiscal boost. A lot of the sequential recovery, especially in rural areas, was contingent on the government’s support. This has been withdrawn in a big way. For example, spending on the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) is down from ₹1.15 lakh crore in 2020-21 RE to ₹73,000 crore in 2021-22 BE. Similarly, allocation for Pradhan Mantri Awaas Yojna is down from ₹40,500 crore in 2020-21 RE to ₹27,500 crore in 2021-22 BE. PM-KISAN allocation was ₹75,000 crore in 2020-21 BE; it came down to ₹65,000 crore in 2020-21 RE and has been maintained at that level in 2021-22 BE.Once the resource flow to such schemes reduces from April 2021, rural incomes and demand will take a hit. When read with the fact that even the better-looking high-frequency economic indicators, such as Purchasing Managers’ Indices, have been highlighting the fact that labour markets have not recovered even though production has picked up, this has an ominous possibility. While India was spared a second wave of Covid-19 infections, it could end up with a second round of distress in labour markets, especially for those who are at the bottom of the pyramid and have the highest propensity to consume. What explains a negative fiscal stimulus in the wake of a contraction? Given the government’s economic philosophy even during the pre-pandemic slowdown, this is not surprising. It believed that the slowdown was not because of a demand-side problem, and that the solution was to be found in supply-side measures and a formalisation push in the economy. But this approach may have worsened the economic situation.The budget has only carried forward the supply-side focus of the government. After having announced critical factor market reforms in agriculture and labour, the government has gone ahead with liberalising foreign direct investment limits in critical sectors such as insurance, announced privatisation of government-owned banks, and has taken up large-scale monetisation of government assets beyond public sector companies. This is what explains the exuberance in equity markets. While these policies might play a role in keeping the fiscal deficit under control despite a bleak revenue scenario, there will be little impact in terms of fresh economic activity and, hence, boosting aggregate demand. In fact, the net economic impact of these policies need not be benign for two reasons. One, large-scale monetisation of infrastructure assets such as roads and railways can lead to a hike in user charges and hence higher inflation in the long-term. Two, continued exuberance in equity markets will continue to encourage divergence of household savings towards speculative activities and will also make their assets more vulnerable to a sudden windfall loss as and when interest rates are hiked in advanced countries, and foreign investors pull out.The possible clash between the government’s assumptions and the reality of the economy will determine India’s trajectory in the next year.roshan.k@htlive.comThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/where-the-budget-gets-india-s-economy-wrong-101612195469387.html
01-02-2021||Today's||The end of Myanmar’s limited experiment with democracy||At around 3 am on Monday, Myanmar’s dalliance with electoral democracy — never a liberal experiment — came to an end. State Counsellor Aung San Suu Kyi and President Win Myint of the National League of Democracy (NLD), which recently swept Myanmar’s general elections, were detained by the military (also known as the Tatmadaw) on charges of electoral fraud. So were many other journalists, activists, and artists critical of the military. The coup d’état of 2021, the third in Myanmar’s political history — the first two being in 1962 and 1990– was underway, unleashing horrific human suffering.Apart from altering Myanmar’s political trajectory, the coup also risks destabilising the geopolitics of the South and Southeast Asian region. Historically, Myanmar has held a deeply isolationist streak in its foreign policy. But since the late 1980s, it became increasingly dependent on China in the face of intense international criticism of the Tatmadaw’s authoritarianism. This began to change in the first decade of the century, as the country adopted a seven-step roadmap to democracy, selectively removed restrictions, and slowly opened up, raising hopes of democrats the world over. Not anymore.Two key questions require unpacking at this stage. First, why did the Tatmadaw undertake a coup when it commands tremendous influence in Myanmar’s politics? The 2008 constitution guarantees the military 25% seat share in the parliament and does not permit constitutional amendments without a 75%-plus majority favouring such moves. This affords the Tatmadaw structural control of the country’s lawmaking processes, even if elected representatives can decide on foreign and domestic policies — as witnessed in the past few years under Suu Kyi. Second, why now? Though the specifics of what triggered the coup will slowly come in, there are two reasons why Senior-General Min Aung Hlaing might have opted to go ahead with this risky decision.One, despite the pro-military constitutional arrangements, and counter to intuition, the Tatmadaw had begun feeling deeply uncomfortable with Suu Kyi. Her rising popularity among the Bamar-Buddhist majority, more-nationalist-than-most populism (as witnessed during the Rohingya crisis), and persistent demand to reduce the percentage requirement for ushering in constitutional amendments, deepened the Tatmadaw’s suspicion of Suu Kyi trying to alter the civil-military balance of power.Such a combination of the military’s insecurities and Suu Kyi’s ambitions led to open spats between the State Counsellor and the Senior-General (S-G). There was increasing concern within the Tatmadaw that it risked losing influence and autonomy over critical policy domains, including the peace process — which has made little progress in the last five years — as well as, to a limited extent, external relations. The S-G, for instance, has been critical of China in recent months and blamed Beijing for supporting the Arakan army in Rakhine state. Suu Kyi’s perceived tilt towards Beijing, as seen in her red-carpet welcome to Xi Jinping in January 2020, exacerbated these concerns. The Tatmadaw viewed it as a Machiavellian attempt to carve out more political support for herself when the West had abandoned Suu Kyi.In this backdrop, the alleged electoral inconsistencies in recent elections, though denied by the Union Election Commission, ironically offered the military an opportunity to oust Suu Kyi in the name of safeguarding the 2008 constitution from a civilian autocrat. In comparative perspective, this situation is not dissimilar to the 1977 ouster of the popular, and equally autocratic, former Pakistani prime minister Zulfikar Ali Bhutto by the military dictator Zia-ul-Haq. But this in itself is insufficient to explain the timing of the coup d’état. For that, one must focus on the power politics within the Tatmadaw.For the purpose of analytical ease, two broad factions can be identified within the Tatmadaw.The so-called reformists, most represented by former President Thein Sein, are those who have been relatively open to devolving power to elected civilian leaders, diversifying Myanmar’s external relations by opening up to the West, and developing an inclusive political formula that could bring an end to the country’s multiple long-running insurgencies. To be clear, the reformists don’t desire a structural shift in civil-military balance to the detriment of the Tatmadaw. But they were less threatened by the NLD when ushering in reforms after 2008 that allowed the electoral — if not actual — rise of Suu Kyi.The so-called conservative faction, epitomised by Min Aung Hlaing, is deeply suspicious of civilian leaders, especially Suu Kyi. Castigated by the West for their actions in Rakhine state (apparent in London’s targeted sanctions against the S-G and the Deputy S-G), and equally vary of China’s overbearing influence, this faction values the Tatmadaw’s political superiority and vision of a Bamar-Buddhist dominated Myanmar above all else. The conservatives, unlike the reformists, put a premium of Myanmar’s geostrategic locale and understand that neighbours are unlikely to punish Naypyitaw because of the coup d’état, Western sanctions notwithstanding.With the tenure of Min Aung Hlaing soon coming to an end, this was, then, a do-or-die moment in the conservative worldview of Myanmar’s military. The next S-G, even if a conservative, would not have been able to easily outmaneuver Suu Kyi. The change of guard in the military top-brass at a moment when Suu Kyi won another election handsomely risked actual democratisation (even if illiberal in nature), potentially undermining the military’s position for a long time to come.What the Tatmadaw does with this power in the next few weeks, and how it deals with the incoming international criticism, will determine the future course of both Myanmar and the region as a whole. Avinash Paliwal teaches at SOAS University of London and is the author of My Enemy’s Enemy: India in Afghanistan from the Soviet Invasion to the US Withdrawal (New York: Oxford University Press, 2017) The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-end-of-myanmar-s-limited-experiment-with-democracy-101612172076142.html
01-02-2021||Today's||In Bengal, the political battle over Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose||There are many, especially in Bengal, who believe that Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose not only did not die in an air crash in 1945, but survived long after India became independent. Netaji-spotting and conspiracy theories became a cottage industry, spurred by diehard fans, multiple government-appointed commissions and books and films, often based on tenuous research. What’s different in 2021 is Netaji being dragged into electoral politics.With the party founded by Netaji, the Forward Bloc, having faded into obscurity, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is making a concerted bid to claim Netaji’s legacy in the run-up to the state elections. Netaji has a special relevance for Bengal. He has long fed into the Bengali notions of pride as well as neglect in independent India.When West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee objected, in the presence of the prime minister, to cries of Jai Shri Ram at a function in Victoria Memorial to commemorate Netaji’s birth anniversary, she was expressing her anger at a slogan that has acquired a political hue and riled her earlier. But, at another level, she was objecting to the BJP’s attempts to own Netaji.Indeed, just as in the case of Mahatma Gandhi and BR Ambedkar — other icons the BJP has attempted to appropriate — the effort to do so with Netaji is fraught with ideological contradictions. If nothing else, Netaji was avowedly secular through his political career.Nearly a decade before he formed the Indian National Army (INA), Netaji wrote a passionate message to his fellow Bengalis: “One of the dreams that have inspired me and given a purpose to my life is that of a great and undivided Bengal … a Bengal that is above all sects and groups and is the home alike of the Muslim, the Hindu, the Christian and the Buddhist.”Again, in 1937, when a controversy arose over the singing of Bankim Chandra Chattopadhyay’s Vande Mataram by Congress members on formal occasions, Bose suggested taking the advice of Rabindranath Tagore. Tagore said that while the first verse of the song was inspirational, the rest could be offensive to Muslims. This interpretation was accepted by Bose and the Congress.Netaji’s secular spirit found true expression in INA and the Azad Hind government. While Jai Hind was the slogan of INA, three Urdu words — Itmad, Ittefaq and Kurbani — were its motto. Several other incidents highlight Netaji’s secular outlook. Historian Sugata Bose, who is also a member of Bose’s family, notes that, in 1943, when priests of the main Chettiar temple in Singapore invited Netaji to a religious ceremony, he turned them down. He eventually consented only after the temple authorities agreed to a gathering of all castes and communities. Netaji’s compatriot, Abid Hasan, has written that the temple was “filled to capacity with the uniforms of INA officers and men and the black caps of the South Indian Muslims glaringly evident.”Perhaps, the famous public trial in 1945 of three INA officers — Prem Kumar Sahgal, a Hindu, Shah Nawaz Khan, a Muslim, and Gurbaksh Singh Dhillon, a Sikh — best showcased the composition of INA and Netaji’s secular leanings. As Sugata Bose argues, the “Hindu right lauds his military heroism, ignoring his deep commitment to Hindu-Muslim unity and the rights of religious minorities”.The effort to own Netaji has intensified in this election cycle, with his 125th birth anniversary celebrations also acting as a catalyst. The current situation is complicated by a political divide within Netaji’s family. Sugata Bose and his late mother, Krishna Bose, are former MPs of the Trinamool Congress while a cousin, Chandra Bose, unsuccessfully contested the 2016 Assembly election on a BJP ticket.What is certain though is that once the election is over, Netaji will once again be consigned to statues and portraits as well as conspiracy theories.Ronojoy Sen is senior research fellow, ISAS & SASP, National University of Singapore.The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/in-bengal-the-political-battle-over-netaji-subhas-chandra-bose-101612099284983.html
01-02-2021||Today's||Why the budget is crucial for democracy||Even as the Covid-19 pandemic has devastated lives and livelihoods for a majority, a tiny sliver of the population, both globally and in India, managed to become richer.The United States (US) witnessed the highest number of deaths caused by the pandemic in any country so far. Yet, the wealth of the top 20% increased by leaps and bounds.The total net worth of 614 billionaires rose by $931 billion between March and October. The employment rate of 25% of the population with the highest income recorded a jump of 1.6% over the pre-pandemic period.But this limited prosperity for some happened even as the economic condition of the majority, particularly the poor, kept deteriorating. Some were killed by the pandemic, while most of them were suffering from the other disasters indirectly caused by the pandemic.By December, 10 million Americans had lost jobs, while numerous small businesses had been deprived of their work.The dichotomy is not unique to the US. The New Policy Institute estimated in June last year that the top 20% of British super-rich had earned $29.3 billion during the lockdown.Even “communist” China saw a spike in the wealth of the rich. In India, the income of a select few has grown so much that observers suggest that all those who need support can be vaccinated with the extra wealth, or that they can even afford to spend on schemes such as the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme for years — remember this scheme has served as a crucial safety valve and has helped feed millions of people in India’s rural hinterland.All of this has prompted some economists to advocate the extra income of the super-rich.During the pandemic, there was a 12% decrease in the income of organised sector employees. An average Indian lost his earning by 17%. According to an eye-opening survey by Oxfam, women have been the worst victims. Their unemployment rate has registered a 15% increase.Will the finance minister take care of all those who have lost out and suffered in the budget to be presented on Monday? Jobs were lost, shelters disappeared, and millions of people had to walk hundreds of kilometres to get home. These destitute people are most in need of support from the government.All of this points to a worrying pattern — economic inequality is increasing all over the world and, unfortunately, there is little scope for immediate improvement since the pandemic continues to wreak havoc. The vaccine is now available, but the unpredictability of the disease and emergence of new strains means there is no room for complacency.This also means that any assessment of economic recovery can only be tentative and not certain. Countries such as India, which were facing an economic slowdown even before the Covid-19 crisis, will find it even harder to recover.This is not good news for the democratic world. History shows that persisting economic inequalities sows the seeds of dissatisfaction.This dissatisfaction leads to mistrust, and mistrust often forces the common citizen to hit the streets. Recently, India witnessed the fury of the farm movement on the streets and Red Fort in Delhi.This happened even as the government was giving clear signals of retreating and had made reasonable concessions — but the agitators were not ready for anything less than the withdrawal of the three farm laws. They had been on the road, at Delhi’s borders, for more than two months.Tensions had increased, culminating into the events of January 26. Some captured the Red Fort and hoisted a religious flag.The dignity of the Indian Republic suffered an unprecedented setback, but the episode also shattered the morale of the peasants and tarnished the credibility of their struggle.Or take another episode — on January 6, the US Capitol witnessed an insurrection of sorts. It appears that citizens are increasingly losing trust in their elected government and the system that has been in place for years in democratic countries. Many observers see this trend as a threat to the democratic system, born out of a mix of anxieties and grievances, often economic in nature.Those exercising power must find ways to tackle this. In India, Nirmala Sitharaman’s second full budget can mark the beginning of this effort to tackle inequality, distress, and provide hope to citizens, for it is with economic well-being that democracy too will remain robust.Shashi Shekhar is editor in chief, HindustanThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/why-the-budget-is-crucial-for-democracy-101612099045258.html
01-02-2021||Today's||Lessons from the tractor rally on R Day||The most enduring image of the 72nd Republic Day in the Capital was a religious flag flying on the ramparts of the iconic Red Fort. The visual was deeply disturbing. The nation watched, in shock and horror, on television, as 1,000 or so protesters stormed and ravaged the revered monument. Elsewhere, thousands of tractors ran amuck, smashing barricades, while lathi-wielding farmers broke through police cordons, marching ahead towards India Gate. The day-long mayhem left 400 policepersons and 10 farmers injured, and public property worth crores destroyed. But, from the perspective of law enforcement, it is important to look at both the specifics of what happened on Republic Day, and the larger lessons the episode holds.Why did the Delhi Police permit a tractor rally on Republic Day? The Delhi Police commissioner admitted, in his press conference, that intelligence inputs had led to banning over 350 Twitter handles fanning discontent from across the border and instigating people in large numbers to join the rally. It was also clear to all police officers that, despite assurances of the farm leaders, allowing tractors in such large numbers would be dangerous and controlling such a huge number of protesters would be almost impossible. Besides, every police unit, down to the last man, is deployed for security arrangements for the Republic Day parade, making it impossible to handle any other bandobast on the day. If the government then gave consent, it must have braced itself for some collateral damage.This then begs another larger question. Who is responsible for the safety of the Capital — the Centre, Delhi’s chief minister or the police commissioner? The Supreme Court left the matter of permission for the rally to the Delhi Police. The police suggested another date for the rally. But the denial of permission would have created an uproar among farmer leaders, civil society and the Opposition. Perhaps this led to the Centre to buckle under pressure.Why, then, didn’t the Centre leave the matter in the hands of the police commissioner, to take the decision solely on law-and-order considerations? Perhaps it would have served the interest of both the Centre and the Capital better. In light of wanton destruction of public property and brazen attack on policemen, the damage done to the image of the Capital and to our democratic governance far outweighs any advantage accrued by granting permission. The issue requires serious deliberation by the political executive for taking such decisions in future.The Delhi Police displayed great restraint — suffering injuries, but not retaliating. But was it prepared for contingencies such as tractors diverging from the earmarked routes or going rogue? Even additional manpower or hastily created physical barriers would not have helped, except shooting at the tyres. As a result, Delhiites saw cops running helter-skelter against speeding tractors, breaking police barriers, and armed mobs surging ahead — scenes hardly inspiring confidence among the public.There are at least three lessons that emerge from the ghastly incidents of that day.The first is technical in nature. There is a dire need to upgrade riot-gear equipment. Police officials continue to use old, worn-out helmets, shields and lathis. Tear gas equipment, gas grenades and bulletproof vests need to be regularly replaced. Some visuals on TV screens, watched by the world, presented an embarrassing sight, exposing the vulnerability of India’s cops against raging mobs. In contrast, watch the riot gear of the Hong Kong Police. Indeed, modern equipment and accessories need to be provided for facing riotous situations. The conventional response of merely adding numbers will not work in all situations.Second, ground intelligence requires more coverage to prevent breaches such as that of Red Fort, which should have been prevented at any cost. The performance of the 10 battalions attached with the Delhi police for handling law and order needs a serious review. Issues regarding deployment only with unit heads, training, briefing should be looked into. Transfer of senior Indian Police Service (IPS) officers immediately after incidents such as the Tees Hazari clash with lawyers has also led to some hesitation on the part officers to take firm action.Third, a considered view has to be taken on manning protests in Delhi in the future, given their frequency and intensity. A protest is a constitutional right and, hence, protest sites such as Ramlila Maidan have been earmarked. Public places cannot be occupied indefinitely, according to the Supreme Court. For 60 days, the farm agitation was peaceful, but people were suffering because of road blockades. Job losses were reported, with supply chains affected and manufacturing adversely impacted. A rough estimate of losses is around ₹3,500 crore a day, according to Assocham. All protests must be held at designated sites and, if numbers are large, then an appropriate site should be designated for the purpose. A conscious decision needs to be taken that no protest will be allowed to hamper the daily lives of Delhi citizens.Critical stakeholders failed our democracy on the 72nd Republic Day — the central government by permitting the rally; farm leaders by reneging on their promises; and the Opposition by not playing a constructive role.In the future, it is best if professional matters are left to professionals only.Yashovardhan Azad is a former IPS officer and Central Information CommissionerThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/lessons-from-the-tractor-rally-on-r-day-101612098864866.html
01-02-2021||Editorials||What Union Budget 2021-2022 gets right | HT Editorial||There were no unpleasant surprises in Union Budget 2021-22, and that was the biggest surprise. There was no new Covid tax, no wealth tax, no super-rich tax, no levy of the kind that made markets edgy in the run-up to February 1. Budgets are about headline management, effective implementation, and outcomes. Purists give the three equal weightage, but in the popular reckoning, budgets get remembered for the first more than anything else. And by steering clear of these fears, by not changing the income tax regime, and by focusing on health and infrastructure, this budget has managed the headlines well. Sure, there was the matter of the agri-cess (which will actually not mean an increase in price for either the importer or the end-user), and an increase in some import levies in the spirit of Atmanirbharta (self-reliance), but on almost every critical parameter, Union Budget 2021-22 ticked the right boxes.On health, it announced a six-year plan, costing ₹64,180 crore to strengthen the country’s health infrastructure — evidence that India has learnt its lessons from the pandemic. On government spending, the budget has increased allocation to capital expenditure by over a third, even as the overall number remains the same as in the revised estimates for 2020-21 (which are anyway higher than the budget estimates for the year, on account of the pandemic). There may be some quibbling about this because it means operating expenditure across several government departments, and on select welfare schemes, will come down from highs seen during the pandemic. But this is in keeping with both life and the economy returning to the pre-pandemic normal. Capital expenditure is generally considered more productive — and should result both in an increase in demand and help create more jobs.On the fiscal deficit, the budget has taken the long view (and the correct one, in this newspaper’s perspective), with the government giving itself the leeway to spend more even as it has defined a gradual (and achievable) glide path. India is expected to end 2020-21 with a fiscal deficit of 9.5%, 2021-22 with 6.8%, and has targeted a deficit of 4.5% by 2025-26. On the reforms front, the budget has announced the privatisation of two State-owned banks, and increased the permissible foreign direct investment in insurance companies to 74% from the existing 49%, with some caveats. In a country that nationalised banks, the first is a radical, if unexpected move — it isn’t done yet, but even the announcement of intent is very significant. And on the compliance front, the reduction in the time-frame for reopening IT assessments, from six to three, is as welcome as the decision that removes the requirement for people over 75 to file IT returns if their income comes from pension and interest.The numbers behind Union Budget 2021-22 appear pragmatic, and, most importantly, believable. The budget has assumed a 14.4% nominal growth in Gross Domestic Product (GDP), lower than the Economic Survey’s 15.4%. This means that if the actual nominal growth is closer to the predictions of the Economic Survey, the fiscal deficit could be lower. Union Budget 2021-22 assumes a tax revenue of ₹15.45 lakh crore, lower than the current year’s budget estimates of ₹16.35 lakh crore (revised estimates: ₹13.44 lakh crore). The corresponding figure for 2019-20 was ₹13.56 lakh crore. It is even more pragmatic when it comes to non-tax revenue. It has assumed a non-tax revenue of ₹2.4 lakh crore, lower than this year’s budget estimate of ₹3.8 lakh crore (revised estimate: ₹2.1 lakh crore) and also 2019-20’s ₹3.2 lakh crore. There is no reason to doubt any of these numbers — especially in the context of the sequential recovery underway, evident in a clutch of high-frequency indicators, from the Purchasing Managers Index (January’s 57.7 is a three-month high) to monthly car sales. There are other interesting aspects about the government’s planned revenue gathering efforts – from an initial public offering for the Life Insurance Corporation to the monetisation of land owned by the government and State-owned companies, but these are clearly work-in-progress; revenue from these has not been factored into the budget.If there is one thing budget 2021-22 can be faulted for, it is the absence of any direct measures to drive demand, although there are enough indirect ones. Still, given everything else in the budget, and the fact that a 14.4% nominal growth suggests a substantial recovery in demand, no one is likely to complain about it too much.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/what-union-budget-2021-2022-gets-right-hteditorial-101612195528923.html
01-02-2021||Editorials||Why the FIRs against journalists is wrong | HT Editorial||When news events are still in progress, journalists must follow a simple rule — report, but only after verification. If the event is particularly sensitive, there is an even greater onus on journalists to be more careful. And that is why when a set of journalists, on January 26, reported that a protester had died due to police firing, they weren’t meeting the highest standards of their profession. Later disclosures, including a video released by the Delhi Police, showed that the protester died when his tractor overturned. Journalists who got it wrong must introspect; the temptation to shoot off tweets without verification must be resisted; and media institutions must have stronger vetting processes.But this cannot justify what appears to be a politically-driven campaign to legally entangle journalists for a host of crimes they did not commit. In five states where the police force is controlled by the Bharatiya Janata Party — Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Haryana, Karnataka, and Delhi — first information reports (FIRs) have been filed against journalist Rajdeep Sardesai and others on charges of sedition, criminal conspiracy, effort to break public peace, promote religious enmity and more. This is wrong, for a mistake in reporting — which Mr Sardesai, for instance, immediately corrected when new information came to light — cannot be treated as akin to a conspiracy against the State. The fact that fake news and hate speech are a staple on Indian news television — but little is done about it since it often suits powers-that-be — lends the current case an air of selectivity. Even as the media must improve its reporting standards, the political regime must step back, for FIRs will have a chilling effect on free speech and liberty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/why-the-firs-against-journalists-is-wrong-hteditorial-101612100125022.html
01-02-2021||Editorials||Announce a fiscal boost | HT Editorial||The importance of Union budgets has decreased over time in India for three broad reasons. With the private sector’s growing footprint, the size of budgetary spending vis-a-vis India’s GDP has gone down. The Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management (FRBM) Act of 2003 puts limits on the deficit the government can run. And the roll-out of the Goods and Services Tax (GST) regime in 2017 has taken the bulk of indirect tax decisions, and hence prices in the economy, out of the budget’s purview. Given these limitations, what should one expect from the budget? This can be summarised in one phrase — it should err on the side of counter-cyclical caution.The Economic Survey 2020-21 has set the context. It asserts that India is experiencing a V-shaped economic recovery. This suggests that not only is the worst over, the economy has come out of the pandemic’s shock without any long-term scars. The Survey also lays the ideological ground for justifying a fiscal stimulus — it makes a case that India’s debt is sustainable, rating agencies have been unfair in downgrading India, and government investments crowd in private investment. Whether or not the budget exploits the Survey’s ideological groundwork will be evident from the actual spending boost, and not the rise in fiscal deficit, it announces. Even if government spending remains unchanged, and government receipts dip due to fall in incomes, the fiscal deficit will go up. This is what has happened in India’s past few budgets. Revenue projections did not materialise because they were built on over-optimistic GDP growth assumptions.The economy was slowing then. It has experienced a contraction now.While some high-frequency indicators do suggest a strong sequential recovery, there isn’t enough data at the moment to conclude that the economy — at least the informal stakeholders in it — has not suffered serious damage. There is enough evidence to suggest that some sectors have suffered more than others, with vulnerable citizens having borne the brunt of the contraction. India has been lucky to have escaped, at least until now, a second wave of infections. As the vaccination drive intensifies, the economy will inch back to normal but it must not suffer due to lack of demand. This is exactly why the budget should err on the side of caution, and announce a massive fiscal boost.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/announce-a-fiscal-boost-hteditorial-101612099584792.html
