10-02-2021||Mumbai||Fuel prices in Mumbai at record high; petrol ₹94.12 a litre; diesel ₹84.63||Prices of fuel soared in the city for the second consecutive day on Wednesday. The price of one litre of petrol is now ₹94.12, while one litre of diesel is ₹84.63.There has been a 92 paise increase in the cost of petrol and 96 paise increase in the diesel price over the period of one week. On February 4, petrol was priced at ₹93.20 for one litre, while diesel was available at ₹83.67 for one litre, in the city.On Tuesday, one litre of petrol was available at ₹93.83 and diesel is priced at ₹84.36 a litre in the city. The increase in fuel prices was seen after two day days.With the constant increase in the fuel prices, transporters have called for an all-body meeting on Saturday to decide the course of action. They have stated the constant increase in fuel prices is impacting the business of small transporters.Decisions on agitation regarding the increase in fuel prices will be taken on Saturday.“There is acute pressure on us to call for a protest against the insensitivity of the government towards their plight, as the rising fuel cost is making their operations economically unviable,” said Bal Malkit Singh, chairman, All India Motor Transport Congress (AIMTC).Earlier, the AIMTC had written to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray asking to reduce Value Added Tax (VAT) on diesel and petrol in Maharashtra, to extend relief to the road transport sector.“There is no immediate relief from the government. The fuel prices are constantly increasing. Maharashtra government should reduce VAT on both petrol and diesel in the city. This will bring some relief to the citizens,” said Aarti Singh, a Vikhroli resident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fuel-prices-in-mumbai-at-record-high-petrol-94-12-a-litre-diesel-8463-101612981750687.html
10-02-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC refuses bail to man whose mother faked illness||The Bombay high court (HC) last week rejected the bail application of a man from Osmanabad and directed the Civil surgeon of Osmanabad civil hospital to file a complaint of forgery with the police and submit a report to the court of the action. The court’s direction came after it learnt that the medical certificate of the bail applicant’s mother was forged and had the stamp and sign of the medical officer and civil Surgeon of Osmanabad civil hospital. The court on Thursday also imposed a cost of ₹5,000 on the man. A division bench of justice Sadhana Jadhav and justice Nitin Borkar, while hearing the bail application earlier on January 19, was informed by advocate Priyal Sarda that the man was seeking temporary bail for six months so that he could take care of his mother who was suffering from breast cancer and diabetes. The bench was further told that the applicant was the only son, and hence his application should be allowed. A medical certificate of the mother issued by Osmanabad civil hospital dated October 27, 2020 was submitted before the court to prove the genuineness of the claim. However, the court doubted the certificate and directed the public prosecutor to inquire. Subsequently, the civil surgeon of Osmanabad civil hospital filed a report stating that the medical certificate was not issued by the hospital. The report further mentioned that there was no record to even remotely indicate that the said patient (applicant’s mother) was examined by any doctor of that hospital. The inquiry also revealed that the applicant was not the only son and had a brother, aged around 40 years, who was residing with the mother. The mother, in her statement to the police, admitted that she did not have any documents to show that she was undergoing treatment from the civil hospital and said that she had obtained the certificate to get her son released for a temporary period. She, however, has not revealed how she got the certificate in question.After hearing the submissions and perusing the inquiry report, the court on Thursday observed that the mother had admitted that she was not suffering from cancer. In light of this, the court said, “It is clear that the said certificate has been fabricated.” The bench also observed that the stamps of medical officer and civil surgeon have been misused by the person who had fabricated the certificate and hence directed the civil surgeon, Osmanabad has been asked to lodge a complaint at the police station and submit a report of the same to the court by February 26. “A clear attempt has been made to mislead this court,” the bench held.The bench rejected the interim application and imposed a cost of ₹5,000 on the applicant to be deposited within three weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-refuses-bail-to-man-whose-mother-faked-illness-101612981749345.html
10-02-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra education department defers RTE admissions||The Maharashtra education department has postponed the online application process for admissions under Right To Education (RTE) quota to give the schools a few more days to register and verify their data for the 25% seats reserved under the quota for academic year 2021-22. “The department is likely to announce a revised schedule in the next few days. Parents will be notified about the same and the online admission portal would then open for registrations,” said an official from the civic education department which conducts RTE admissions in Mumbai. The education department had earlier planned to open applications for the quota from February 9. While the registration process for parents was expected to continue until February 26, selected candidates were asked to submit their documents between March 9 and March 26. However, with several schools eligible for admissions under the quota still not registering for admissions, the department has extended the deadline for the same, thus postponing the entire admission schedule. In Mumbai, only 232 of the 360 eligible schools have registered so far. This year, there will be only one lottery for admissions under the quota. After the lottery, a waiting list will be released in accordance with vacant seats in schools across the state. Students can then claim admissions against vacant seats. In case there are seats vacant even after admissions under the waiting list are over, remaining students can be allotted on a lottery basis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-education-department-defers-rte-admissions-101612981687555.html
10-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Film director arrested in porn racket case||Property cell of the Mumbai crime branch on Wednesday arrested film director Tanvir Hasmi from Surat in connection with the pornography racket.Hasmi is the ninth accused to be arrested in the case that involves allegedly luring Bollywood newcomers under the guise of small roles and force them to act in porn films by using agreements signed by them to their disadvantage.Hasmi and the other eight accused were produced before a magistrate on Wednesday. Five of them, including the mastermind of the racket, producer-director Rowa alias Yasmeen Khan, were sent to judicial custody, while others, including Hasmi, model-actress Gehana Vasisth, Khan’s husband Shaan Banerjee alias Dipankar Khasanvis, and Umesh Kamat, were remanded to police custody till February 15.Property cell conducted raids at a bungalow in Madh of Malad (West) on February 4. Hasmi’s name came to the fore during the interrogation of Vasisth and other arrested accused. He would allegedly accept obscene videos from Vasisth and others and later sold them to several mobile app owners, said police inspector Kedari Pawar of the property cell.Vasisth runs a production house and allegedly makes obscene videos and sends them to other arrested accused Kamat. Kamat who worked as a coordinator with a UK based production house forwarded them who later uploaded on their website, added a police officer.Vasisth’s legal and press team has, however, maintained that “Vasisth (aka Vandana Tiwari), is completely innocent and she is not involved in the porn movies racket. She had only shot erotica and there is no pornography in her work.” Meanwhile, another first information report (FIR) has been registered by the Malwani police station following a complaint lodged by a model alleging that she was forced to act in pornographic films by some accused arrested by the property cell, including Rowa Khan. The complainant, a 29-year-old model, has alleged Khan asked her to sign a contract and later forced her to perform an obscene act under duress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbaifilm-director-arrested-in-porn-racket-case-101612981627681.html
10-02-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra seeks Centre’s nod to reopen CoWIN for HCWs to register for vaccine||Maharashtra health department has asked the Centre to reopen the centralised app CoWIN to healthcare workers (HCWs) so that those who have not registered themselves may do so. In Maharashtra, around 500,000 of the 1,500,000 registered HCWs at government and privately-run medical facilities have not registered on CoWIN, which is managing the nationwide vaccination drive. “We have sought permission from the Central government to reopen the app for registration of those HCWs who did not or could not register earlier. Once the approval comes through, the app will be open for registration since vaccination is not permitted without it [registration]. Even for walk-ins, registration on CoWIN is mandatory,” said Dr Dilip Patil, state surveillance officer. Across the state, many HCWs who registered themselves on CoWIN have reported that their names are missing on the app. For instance, Dr Avinash Bhondwe, president of Indian Medical Association (IMA), Maharashtra, registered on CoWIN in November 2020, but learnt his name was missing when he tried to avail a walk-in vaccination at a centre in Pune. Other HCWs like Dr Bhondwe cannot re-register since the deadline for applying on CoWIN was on January 12. Dr Bhondwe said the deadline also came as a surprise. “We were earlier told there would be no deadline for registration on the app. But it was suddenly closed [on January 12],” said Dr Bhondwe. Some doctors chose to not register initially but would like to do so now. “I did not know if the vaccines will have any adverse effects and there was also lack of clarity on who can get vaccinated. Having seen there aren’t any severe adverse effects, I would now like to get vaccinated,” said a doctor from VN Desai Hospital requesting anonymity. Health officers said there is growing interest among HCWs in vaccination although the current turnout in the state stands at 67%. “Not even 1% beneficiaries suffered minor side effects, like fever and body ache. So far, we haven’t received any complaints about severe side effects. This has helped boost the confidence of HCWs,” said additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-seeks-centre-s-nod-to-reopen-cowin-for-hcws-to-register-for-vaccine-101612981327787.html
10-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai colleges await final word from local bodies before reopening||Despite the state government announcing that colleges can reopen starting February 15, colleges are still waiting for permission from local civic authorities. According to the reopening guidelines shared by the University of Mumbai (MU) on February 5, colleges should get permission from the local collectors office and as yet, no such intimation has been received by any college.“All department heads at our college got together recently and we have chalked out a plan to ensure bringing back staff and students in a phased manner. A letter to this effect has been sent to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) as well as the local collector’s office, and we are waiting to hear from them before announcing re-opening of the institute,” said Neha Jagtani, principal in-charge, RD National College, Bandra. She added that the institute has decided to first start calling back final-year students who need practical classes, then slowly move on to first and second-year students.Last week, state minister for higher and technical education Uday Samant announced that colleges can reopen starting February 15 with not more than 50% people on campus at any given time. On February 5, MU released a circular stating guidelines as prescribed by the University Grants Commission (UGC) on phased reopening of colleges.For starters, colleges have been asked to give first preference to PhD and research candidates and final-year students to attend physical lectures, while continuing online lectures for the rest of the batches. Other than these batches, online classes will have to remain functional for the other batches, states the circular.The MU circular also clearly states that colleges in the containment zones should not be allowed to start at present, and therefore, the university has asked for colleges to seek permission from the collector’s office before bringing students back on campus. “Ever since the state government and the university declared about reopening of colleges, we have been receiving calls from several students and parents for updates. Many are still unsure if they should be sending their children to college. And we are currently helpless because we cannot start the college until the local authorities notify us,” said the principal of a south Mumbai college on condition of anonymity.While permission to reopen college is one worry, a handful of colleges with hostel facilities are still waiting to hear from the government on when their hostel premises will be surrendered by BMC. “Our hostel was used as a quarantine centre by the civic body. While the hostel is vacant at present, we need a clear signal from the local collector before we can sanitise the premises and only then can we call our students back,” said Dr RK Srivastava, professor and head of department, Sydenham Institute of Management Studies, Research and Entrepreneurship Education (SIMSREE).At present, the state government is also yet to clarify whether teachers and students will be allowed to travel by train during peak hours (7am to 12 noon and 4pm to 9pm). Colleges said they will officially announce reopening only once these ambiguities are cleared by the respective authorities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-colleges-await-final-word-from-local-bodies-before-reopening-101612981147632.html
10-02-2021||Mumbai||Employee ID card must to get Covid vaccine: Mumbai civic body||After an incident in which a doctor tried to get his family vaccinated out of turn, employee identification (ID) cards will be mandatory for beneficiaries. To ensure no unauthorised candidate avails Covid-19 vaccine, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has instructed vaccination centres to check employee ID of potential beneficiaries. The civic body is also collecting hospital-wise data of healthcare workers (HCWs) who have registered on the centralised application CoWIN with their employee ID number for cross-verification. Last week, a doctor from Amravati came under the scanner when he included 19 family members and friends in the list of HCWs to be vaccinated at the hospital where he works. This is in violation of the Centre’s guidelines, according to which the first phase of the vaccination drive is for HCWs from public and private medical facilities followed by frontline workers (FLWs) in the second phase, which is currently underway. Each beneficiary receives two shots and all beneficiaries are being vaccinated for free. To prevent situations similar to what happened in Amravati, BMC is adopting measures to verify beneficiaries’ identities. Until now, beneficiaries could verify their identities by showing government-issued ID cards such as Aadhaar and PAN cards. However, now they will have to show their employee IDs. “As the immunisation programme has not been opened to the public yet, all probable beneficiaries must show their employee IDs at the vaccination centres to get inoculated. We have issued instructions to all vaccination centres,” said additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani. BMC has also asked public and private hospitals to submit lists of names of HCWs who have registered on CoWIN app for vaccination with their employee ID numbers. “If we do not find the match in the data, we will ask hospitals for a clarification,” said Kakani. He also requested the public to inform the civic body if they hear of any illegal vaccinations. No such violations have been reported in Mumbai so far. Dr Archana Patil, director at the Directorate of Health Services said hospitals would be trusted to provide accurate data of HCWs upon registration. Health activists said that since employee ID was not needed to register for vaccination on CoWIN, some may have misused the facility. “There are thousands of small local hospitals and clinics. The CoWIN app, therefore, should have added the option to include individual employee IDs of the staff which could have stopped such illegal activities,” said health activist Dr Abhijit More.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/employee-id-card-must-to-get-covid-vaccine-mumbai-civic-body-101612980967862.html
10-02-2021||Gurugram||Three arrested for ₹500-crore plot sale fraud||With the arrest of three persons from Sector 39 on Tuesday, the police busted a gang that illegally sold plots in Sushant Lok-1 and Sushant Lok-3, on forged documents, by taking advantage of the high real estate value in the city that attracts investors from other states as well as abroad. It is estimated that the gang, between 2019 and 2020, duped more than 200 unsuspecting buyers and made over ₹500 crore.According to police, they had received at least nine complaints in 2019 and 20 in 2020 from people who alleged that their plots had been sold on forged property documents. Three of the seven gang members who were arrested were identified as Ranveer Kumar of Kapurthala, Rahul Prasad of Jalandhar and Kavita Rani alias Ria Sehgal of Ludhiana, all from Punjab. The police said the other suspects have been in Dubai for the last six months and the suspected kingpin, Sanjay Kathuria, is a repeat offender who had been jailed in the city twice. He had been living in Ghaziabad for the last four years, the police said.Preet Pal Sangwan, the assistant commissioner of police (crime), said that the gang members were well versed in the real estate business. They used to travel to Gurugram when Kathuria allegedly called them to appear as a relative of the plot owners, to complete the registration of the property. “Kathuria was out on bail in 2018, after spending more than six months in jail. Four cases were registered against him at the Sushant Lok and city police stations. He was declared a proclaimed offender by the court in 2019. He moved to Dubai in early 2020 and was operating from there after collecting more than ₹400 crore,” he said. The complainants told the police that unidentified persons had forged documents and sold their plots in Sushant Lok-1, and sectors 56 and 57 to residents of Delhi, Ghaziabad, and Noida, for ₹2 crore and had taken a token of ₹1 crore each plot. In one such incident, one Rajeev Kaul, who has been living in Qatar for the last 12 years, had bought a 180 square yard plot from a developer in February 1992. “I visited Gurugram in October 2019 to get the physical possession letter and a no-objection certificate from the developer. I wanted to start construction on the land but in December 2019, I was informed by a real estate agents that my plot was recently sold by someone on my behalf and the papers of sale deed and some bank cheque lists are being circulated in the market for resale of the same. I was shocked as this was not in my knowledge and I immediately informed the police,” he said. Kaul alleged that all the documents he had submitted to the developer had been leaked and shared with the suspects. The developer concerned could not be reached for comment.Similar cases were reported by people living in other states and countries and more than 29 cases have been registered at the Sushant Lok and Sector 29 police stations. “In many cases, the suspects had broken the gates and locks of the houses and had taken possession of the property. They stayed there posing as relatives of the owner and later sold these plots for crores. In five cases, they had even built two-bedroom apartments and had sold them for ₹5 crore,” Sangwan said. The complainants were paying regular maintenance to the developer and had submitted their identification documents and current addresses as well, which were allegedly leaked to the suspects. Sangwan said a few bank employees and staff of the developers may be involved in the scam and they will be identified soon. “The amount made by the suspects was shared with the close aides, bank staff and developer’s employees. The major share was kept with the kingpin,” he said. The police said during a preliminary investigation, it was revealed that suspects were involved in such frauds in Noida and Ghaziabad as well. The complainants stated that they went to the suspects’ addresses, which was mentioned in the document but did not find them there. The police said that upon their visit to their addresses in Punjab, they were informed that they were history-sheeters and have been jailed several times. There were multiple cases of fraud against them and that they were absconding for many months. KK Rao, the commissioner of police, said that Sangwan and the crime investigation agency of DLF Phase 4 were allotted the case. Within a month, the Sushant Lok police arrested the suspects. “The suspects confessed to the crime, revealed their modus operandi and shared details of all the gang members and defined the role of each member,” he said. The police recovered forged allotment letters, forged identity cards and forged rubber stamps from their possession. Cases were registered under sections 419 (impersonation), 420 (cheating), 467 (forgery), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (using forged document as genuine) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code at Sushant Lok and Sector 29 police stations. According to the police, there have been at least 250 cases of plot frauds in the city in the last year. In most of the cases, victims were senior citizens, whose plots and houses were acquired fraudulently. Rao said that the practice of signing an agreement and finalising the deal on stamp paper should be avoided, and that buyers should get the property registration done as per norms. Also, before buying any property, one should check the land with the local revenue officer and other authorities concerned. “The suspects mostly targeted vacant plots, possession of which were taken but remained vacant. They conducted reconnaissance of the areas and prepared a blueprint, based on which forged documents were prepared. They contacted the property dealers of the area and sold the plots,” he said. The police said that they have informed the directorate of the enforcement department (ED) regarding the fraud and sent them a set of documents for further investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/three-arrested-for-rs-500-crore-plot-sale-fraud-101612980786793.html
10-02-2021||Mumbai||Nana Patole to take charge as Maharashtra Congress chief on Friday||Newly appointed Maharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole will take charge from his predecessor Balasaheb Thorat at August Kranti Maidan on Friday. Before that, Patole will visit religious places of various faiths on Thursday. Patole will pay tribute to martyrs at Hutatma Chowk, Mahatma Gandhi at his statue near Mantralaya and travel to Girgaum Chowpatty on a tractor to bring attention to farmers’ issues. He will then head towards August Kranti Maidan in a bullock cart as notional protest against fuel price hike. “It will be a grand procession to highlight the discontent among general public and farmers against the [Narendra] Modi government,” said a Congress leader. HK Patil, the party’s state in-charge, and other party members are expected to attend the event at August Kranti Maidan from where Mahatma Gandhi gave the call for Quit India in August 1942.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/nana-patole-to-take-charge-as-maharashtra-congress-chief-on-friday-101612980727722.html
10-02-2021||Delhi||SDMC councillor joins AAP||Deepak Mehra, an independent councillor of the South Delhi municipal Corporation, joined the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Wednesday, the party said in a press statement.“I have joined the AAP because I want to work more for the people of Delhi in the areas of education, health care, transport, power, water and welfare. The AAP’s work on these fronts is unmatchable,” said Mehra, who represents the Ghuman Hera ward.Durgesh Pathak, AAP leader in charge of municipal affairs, said, “Delhi today has two models of governance – the Kejriwal model of development and the BJP model of corruption. The AAP government’s work in Delhi is being appreciated across the country. We welcome Mr Deepak Mehra into our party.”Later in the day, Pathak participated in a campaign programme for Sunita Mishra, the AAP candidate for Shalimar Bagh ward, one of the five municipal wards where by-polls are scheduled to take place on February 28.Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said, “The AAP government has failed in governance and they will get an appropriate response in the 2022 municipal polls.”While the AAP is in charge of the Delhi government, the BJP rules all three municipal corporations. Delhi goes to municipal polls in 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/sdmc-councillor-joins-aap-101612980607858.html
10-02-2021||Mumbai||Unauthorised changes at Khar home: Kangana Ranaut to apply for regularisation||Actor Kangana Ranaut, while withdrawing her appeal against the Dindoshi civil court order, which dismissed her plea against the notice issued to her by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) in 2018, informed the Bombay high court (HC) that she would apply for regularisation of the alleged unauthorised changes made in her Khar residence and hence was withdrawing the appeal. The bench has restrained the civic authority from taking coercive action till the regularisation application was considered.On Wednesday, a single bench of justice Prithviraj Chavan, while hearing the actor’s aural was informed by senior counsel Dr Birendra Saraf, that in response to the query by the bench in the previous hearing, the actor had decided to file a regularisation application before the BMC in connection with the structure.After hearing the request, the bench permitted the withdrawal and said, “The appellant (Ranaut) is permitted to apply for regularisation before the BMC within a period of four weeks,” and directed the civic authority to decide the same expeditiously.The court further added that in the event of the application having an adverse outcome the BMC would have to wait for two weeks thereafter, to enable the actor to file an appeal. The court said that till then the BMC officials would not take any coercive action.The actor had approached the HC after the Dindoshi civil court on December 22, 2020, had dismissed a notice of motion filed by her against the 2018 BMC notice for the alleged irregularities at her Khar home which is located at the junction of 16th and 18th road. The actor has allegedly combined the three flats in the said building into one unit without proper permissions from the civic authority.In January 2019, the actor had approached the Dindoshi civil court challenging the notice and sought restraining orders to the BMC from taking coercive steps. The court had ordered both parties to maintain the status quo. However, on December 22, 2020, the civil court while dismissing her notice of motion had extended interim protection against coercive action for six weeks to enable her to file an appeal before the high court.In her appeal, Ranaut had sought extension of stay on the demolition notice by BMC and said that the action against her was nothing but “vendetta” and sought time from the court to inform, regarding her application for regularisation of the alleged illegal portion of her premises.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/unauthorised-changes-at-khar-home-kangana-ranaut-to-apply-for-regularisation-101612980548089.html
10-02-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt to convene internal audit meeting to look at Covid expenses, tighten spending||The Delhi government is scheduled to convene a meeting of its internal audit department on Friday, with an aim to tighten the expenditure lists submitted by various departments for the upcoming budget and to scrutinise expenses incurred by departments during the Covid-19 pandemic, said a senior government official in the know of the matter.Earlier this week, the Delhi government had called for the meeting of the internal audit department via a circular that said the agenda of the meeting will be a discussion of problems faced during an internal audit, need for training, periodicity of audit and developing ways to select the expropriate expense heads for audit.A senior official in the finance department said, on condition of anonymity, “The aim of the meeting is to develop ways to tighten the lists of planned and unplanned budget expenditures submitted by several departments for the fiscal 2020-21 budget. More than 100 departments have so far shared their estimates. This year, in light of loss of revenue caused by the Covid-19 pandemic, departments have been told to prioritise projects and keep budgets tight.”The official further said, “The other aim is to develop ways to better scrutinise expenses incurred during the Covid-19 pandemic, especially after department heads were allowed to incur certain expenses, without necessarily getting each file cleared by the finance department.”In September 2020, the government had allowed the heads of departments and secretary ranked officials to authorised departmental expenses of up to ₹1 crore without sending the file through the finance department. For expenses exceeding ₹1 crore, they were authorised to send the files directly to the ministers concerned and forward a cabinet note on the matter.“In any case, departments were exempted from the ritual of compulsorily getting all expenses cleared through the finance department, which was often time-consuming. The decision was taken in light of the emergency that the Covid-19 management entailed. Those expenses have to be internally audited now,” the official quoted above said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-to-convene-internal-audit-meeting-to-look-at-covid-expenses-tighten-spending-101612980489434.html
10-02-2021||Mumbai||Versova fire: 4 injured; Mumbai mayor warns of action against storage of hazardous materials||As many as four persons sustained injuries after a massive fire broke out in a cylinder godown on Wednesday in Versova area. The incident was reported at 9.43am. Mini blasts were heard across Versova. Nearby houses also reported cracks due to the vibrations caused by the blast. According to Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) officials, investigations will be undertaken to ascertain the legality of the structure. Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar said the BMC had taken action twice in the past against the godown. “I request the citizens to submit a written application about cylinders kept in the nearby areas. We’ll visit the spots next week and take action. Any business activity, where the storage of hazardous materials is involved, should not be carried out in residential areas. If authorities have given such licenses, l will have them cancelled,” Pednekar said. Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) corporator, Ranjana Patil said, “All types of illegal businesses were running in the premises. The BMC should ensure that such illegal businesses are not carried out in future.” A Mumbai Fire Brigade (MFB)officer said, “We will investigate whether the structure had permission to operate. The four persons who are injured are the workers at the godown. But we will get complete details after we record their statements.” The Mumbai Police said they will file a case after getting the preliminary report on the incident. Siraaj Inamdar, senior inspector from Versova police station said, “We are awaiting more details from the Mumbai Fire Brigade and BMC. Once we get it, we will book the culprits.” Meanwhile, a resident Dhawal Shah of the Andheri Lokhandwala Oshiwara Citizens’ Association said, “There is serious need of additional fire station in Andheri (West). In the last two months, eight fire incidents have been reported in Andheri and there is one fire station which is far away at Irla. One additional fire station was proposed at Link Road in Andheri West, but it is not constructed for the last 25 years.” Shah added, “For residents of Versova, Lokhandwala where the population of around five lakh reside, there should not be any more delay in construction of additional fire station to ensure timely firefighting is conducted in fire like that of Wednesday.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/versova-fire-4-injured-mumbai-mayor-warns-of-action-against-storage-of-hazardous-materials-101612980430228.html
10-02-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Ajoy Mehta to be appointed as MahaRERA chief||Principal advisor to chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray and former chief secretary Ajoy Mehta is set to be appointed as chairman of Maharashtra Real Estate Regulatory Authority (MahaRERA). The state government is expected to issue a formal order on Thursday, after the final nod from CM Thackeray.Mehta, a 1984-batch Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer, retired as chief secretary of Maharashtra on June 30, after he was given two extensions of nine months. He has been serving as the principal advisor to the CM and played a key role in chalking out the key policies and handling of the Covid-19 pandemic.“A three-member committee headed by Bombay high court (HC) judge SS Shinde, secretaries from housing, law and judiciary departments have finalised two names from six applicants. Mehta is one of the two names finalised and proposed to the government. CM is expected to give his nod to Mehta’s name soon. Retired IAS officers Satish Gavai, Bipin Malik are among other applicants,” said an official from the housing department. The department issues order once the proposal is signed by the CM.The official said that the three-member committee has the right to recommend up to three names either from the applications they receive or on their own. The chairman serves till 65years of his age or completion of five years of his appointment.The post of the chairman of MahaRERA was vacant after Gautam Chatterjee retired on January 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-ajoy-mehta-to-be-appointed-as-maharera-chief-101612980308480.html
10-02-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra extends travel restrictions for Kerala after rise in Covid cases||The Maharashtra government has decided to extend travel restrictions for those coming from Kerala, in the state. It has made it mandatory for travellers to carry a Covid-negative report while entering the state. The decision on travel restrictions was taken following an observation made by a three-member team under National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), its director Dr Sujeet Singh, who was in state from Friday to Monday to take stock of the Covid-19 situation. The team pointed out that why the state is not imposing travel restrictions for travellers coming from Kerala. The team had visited Nagpur, Amravati, Akola and Yavatmal and pointed out that these areas have a high positivity rate.Similar travel restrictions are already in place for four states — Delhi, Rajasthan, Goa and Gujarat since November 23.With a total 983,376 cases of Covid-19, Kerala has recorded the second-highest number of Covid-19 cases across the country after Maharashtra. It still has the highest active cases — 64,346 — among all the states. On Tuesday, it recorded 5,980 cases, highest in the country. In the last one week, the number of new infections has grown by an average of 0.6% every day, according to www.covid19india.orgAround 27,826 out of every one million people in Kerala have tested positive for coronavirus, it stated.“Following the powers conferred under Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897 and the Disaster Management Act, 2005, in the capacity as chairperson, state executive committee, I hereby issue orders to extend the SOP (standard operating procedure) for all the passengers arriving in Maharashtra from the state of Kerala with immediate effect, after careful consideration of planning and containment areas and availability of health infrastructure for strict implementation by the concerned authorities,” states the order issued by the chief secretary Sanjay Kumar on Wednesday.“The passengers travelling in flights from Kerala will have to carry RT-PCR negative test reports before boarding and will have to produce the same on landing at airports in Maharashtra. The RT-PCR sample collection should have been done within 72 hours before the scheduled time of landing at airports in the state,” said Anoop Kumar, secretary relief and rehabilitation (additional charge).Those not having RT-PCR test reports shall have to compulsorily undergo RT-PCR test at the concerned airports at their own cost. They will be allowed to go home only after undertaking the tests. Those tested positive will have to be treated as per the existing protocol, he said.Kumar further said, “The passengers travelling in trains will also have to produce the RT-PCR negative test report, but the collection of samples should have been done within 96 hours before the scheduled arrival. Those not having negative reports will be screened for symptoms and body temperature at the railway stations, and those having symptoms shall have to undergo antigen tests.”Those coming by roads will have to undergo screening at border check posts. Those with symptoms will have to undergo antigen tests. If found positive, the traveller will have to be admitted to Covid centre and will have to bear the cost of the treatment, he said.“Kerala has highest per day growth in daily Covid-19 cases and a traveller from the state has the potential of spreading the virus in Maharashtra. Considering this, we have decided to bring in travel restrictions for Kerala as a precautionary measure,” the relief and rehabilitation secretary said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-extends-travel-restrictions-for-kerala-after-rise-in-covid-cases-101612980127471.html
10-02-2021||Gurugram||Experts call for more exits, better enforcement to curb driving on the wrong side||Lack of enforcement, long distances for taking a U-turn and flawed road designs, besides the callous attitude of motorists, are among the key reasons that lead to wrong-side driving in the city, road safety experts said. To tackle the issue, they highlighted that proper enforcement by the police and appropriate road designs are imperative to prevent the offence, which has often led to fatal accidents in the city. Sarika Panda Bhatt, a road safety expert with Nagarro, said that one reason why drivers choose to take the wrong carriageway is the long distance between two exits on many stretches. “Stretches of the National Highway-48, Sohna Road and Golf Course Extension Road have a common problem. At certain parts of these stretches, the distance between two exits is nearly three to four kilometres. A lot of road users, hence, drive on the wrong side to avoid travelling the extra distance and to save time. Authorities need to rectify this and create exits for motorists at short distances,” said Bhatt. She said that proper road design audit will help identify the causes behind wrong-side driving and it is also essential for authorities to first collect data correctly and subsequently analyse them.“Another problem is that exact data on wrong-side driving is not available publicly and the police do not share the exact data with external agencies. With proper data on violations, wrong-side driving areas can be identified, and corrective measures can be executed,” said Bhatt, who was also a member of now-defunct Haryana Vision Zero, a programme commissioned by the state government to work on preventing deaths on roads.Sewa Ram, an urban transport systems design expert and a faculty member of the School of Planning and Architecture (SPA), Delhi, said that wrong-side driving is also a behavioural issue that stems from poor enforcement. “One of the major reasons behind wrong-side driving is that motorists are aware that in most cases, there will be no consequences due to lack of enforcement. Even though there are stringent penalties, now, for someone getting caught, the problem is that enforcement is either erratic or only carried out for short periods. For the rest of the year, the situation remains as is,” said Sewa Ram. Ram said that the Gurugram police should place signage at spots where the practice is rampant to caution commuters of the consequences and the penalties. CCTV cameras or marshals can ensure greater supervision, he said. KK Rao, the commissioner of police, said that they have started registering criminal cases for wrong driving. “Earlier we were challaning the violators, but since the issue is getting serious day by day, we have started registering criminal cases against the offenders. This is the only way to control the rising wrong practices. We have registered seven cases this month and have directed all the teams to ensure the offenders are booked under sections of the Indian Penal Code,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/experts-call-for-more-exits-better-enforcement-to-curb-driving-on-the-wrong-side-101612979106487.html
10-02-2021||Gurugram||Wrong-side driving can attract FIRs in Gurugram||The police have decided to register FIRs against people found driving on the wrong side of the road in the city, under Section 279 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) that pertains to rash driving. Following the decision, the police on Tuesday registered FIRs against a man and a woman in Sector 5 and Sector 40, respectively. The police said that since January 1, more than 20 people have been injured and 16 have died in accidents that were caused by wrong-side driving. Police commissioner KK Rao said they have started a drive against wrong-side driving and anyone found violating the rules will face criminal charges. “The incidents of wrong-side driving are increasing across the city, leading to accidents, but the drivers do not take the issue seriously as they were only given challans till now. The drivers who take short routes to save time often end up speeding. Rash driving suspects will now be booked under the IPC and criminal proceedings will be initiated against them,” he said. The police said that even if personnel are not deployed on a particular stretch, criminal cases may be filed through random checking of CCTV cameras.On Tuesday, a 22-year-old man was severely injured after a speeding Santro being driven on the wrong side of the road allegedly rammed his motorbike ahead of a U-turn on the New Railway Road. According to the police, the collision took place around 6pm, when Ritik Singh, a first-year student of a private college in the city, was returning to his residence in Civil Lines. After the collision with the car, he fell on the road due to the impact and suffered severe injuries, said police. The police said that Singh called his brother and informed them about the accident. In the meantime, three men in the car, who were allegedly inebriated, threatened him not to report the incident to police and fled the spot, leaving him bleeding. His brother took him to a private hospital and informed the police. Singh said he took down the registration number of the car and shared it with the police, following which a case was registered. “The men removed my motorbike from the spot and parked it near the bushes to mislead police. The car was speeding and the driver, talking to his friends, did not even notice me and rammed my motorbike,” he said. A case under sections 279 (rash driving), 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others), 338 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 427 (mischief causing damage) of the IPC was registered against them at the Sector 5 police station. Police said the car has been traced to a resident of Charki Dadri. In another incident, a 67-year-old woman was injured after a speeding i10 being driven on the wrong side of the road hit her while she was walking outside her house in Sector 40 on Tuesday evening. The victim, identified as Neelam Malhotra, was rushed to a private hospital in Sector 31 and had suffered injuries. The passersby caught hold of the woman driver and informed the police but before the team could reach the spot, the suspect fled the spot. A case under sections 279 (rash driving) and 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) of the IPC was registered at the Sector 40 police station.The driver has been identified but is yet to be arrested, said police. Rao said that teams have been directed to conduct investigations and file the challans against the suspects, at the earliest, in court. “The suspects will face trials in court and might get six-month imprisonment along with a fine. Even if the violators are not responsible for accidents, they will be booked as it could be the likely cause of the accident,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/wrongside-driving-can-attract-firs-in-gurugram-101612979107203.html
10-02-2021||Gurugram||Commuters at Kherki Daula don’t have to maintain minimum FASTag balance||Commuters at the Kherki Daula toll plaza, and other toll plazas across the country, will not have to worry about maintaining a minimum balance in their SMARTags, as the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) on Wednesday decided to remove the mandatory minimum threshold amount for the FASTag account, which was paid by the user in addition to a security deposit. The payment of toll fees through FASTag will become mandatory from February 15. The NHAI, in a statement issued on Wednesday, said that the decision has been taken in order to increase the FASTag penetration, ensure seamless movement of traffic and reduce avoidable delays at the toll plazas.The problem, NHAI said, arose because the issuer banks had fixed a minimum amount value for the FASTag account due to which users were not allowed to pass through the toll plaza despite having sufficient balance to pay the toll. The authority said that this caused vehicles to get stuck at the toll plazas. “It has been decided that the users will now be allowed to pass through the toll plaza, if the FASTag account/ wallet balance is non-negative. After crossing the toll plaza, if the account balance becomes negative, the bank can recover the amount from the security deposit, which should be replenished at the time of the next recharge by the user,” the direction issued by NHAI read. NHAI officials said that penetration of FASTags was around 80% at Kherki Daula and this step will benefit commuters. A senior official of the Millennium City Expressway Private Limited (MCEPL), the concessionaire, said that removing the minimum balance norm will help commuters as a large number of them have functional FASTags but without minimum balance. “This will reduce jams and delays at the plaza,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/commuters-at-kherki-daula-don-t-have-to-maintain-minimum-fastag-balance-101612979048908.html
10-02-2021||Gurugram||Cap on social gatherings removed, but 50% rule remains||The district administration on Wednesday, retaining the 50% capacity rule for gatherings, lifted the ceiling on the number of persons allowed to attend events in closed spaces. So far, a maximum of 200 people were being allowed, irrespective of the 50% capacity rule. Deputy commissioner Yash Garg, who is also the chairperson District Disaster Management Authority, issued an unlock order on Wednesday, stating the standard operating procedures (SOP) for areas outside the containment zones. On January 27, in a directive issued by the union ministry of home affairs (MHA), states were asked to issue specific guidelines for regulations on social, religious, sports, entertainment, education, cultural or religious gatherings. The order issued by Garg stated that all gatherings in closed spaces will be restricted to 50% of the hall capacity i.e. 500 persons in the hall capacity of 1,000, 250 in halls with a capacity of 500 and 100 in halls with a capacity of 200. “The district has adopted the MHA guidelines where gatherings are permitted with certain regulations based on the closed space capacity,” said Garg. In open spaces, there will be no limit on the gatherings. However, it has to be ensured that there is sufficient space for people to follow social distancing norms, the order stated.In other public spaces, swimming has already been permitted in public pools, but SOPs for the same are awaited. Increased seating capacity has also been allowed in cinema halls and regulations on interstate and interdistrict travel being done away with. Although the instances of SARS-CoV-2 infections have declined in the city, activities are still restricted in containment zones and will remain in force till February 28, said officials. On Wednesday, 28 new Covid-19 cases were confirmed, taking the tally to 58,419. Due to a decline in test positivity rate and higher recovery rate, the number of active cases is at 351. Of these, 30 are seriously-ill patients, four are in district Covid care centres, while remaining 317 are in home isolation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/cap-on-social-gatherings-removed-but-50-rule-remains-101612979047617.html
10-02-2021||Gurugram||Sadar Bazar road to be off limits for vehicle on a trial basis||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) will start a week-long trial of restricting vehicular movement on a 600-metre stretch in Sadar Bazar on February 22, commencing a redesign project that has been on the cards since 2019. Officials said that depending on the outcome of the trial, the MCG will take a call on enforcing the no-vehicle rule permanently, by installing hydraulic barriers and redesigning the area. MCG officials said that the trial will be executed on the 600-metre stretch between Jama Masjid and the Head Post Office.Set up in the 1930s, Sadar Bazar is the city’s oldest market with more than 1,500 shops. It is heavily congested and the narrow lanes compound the matter. On weekends, the daily footfall is around 20,000. As per MCG officials, more than 90% of the street users in the market are pedestrians and the redesign is being done to create equitable space for them. Sadar Bazar’s redesign has been on the cards since August 2019, with the then MCG commissioner Amit Khatri citing the example of the redesign of Karol Bagh market by the North Delhi Municipal Corporation (NDMC). In Delhi, a 700-metre stretch of the market was turned into a vehicle-free zone, following which the MCG planned to implement similar measures at Sadar Bazar. For the trial, the MCG will place temporary barriers at the entry and exit points to ensure no vehicles can pass through. Besides, the MCG is also setting up a dedicated vending zone for street vendors in the market.“A few months ago, we had launched an urban street design competition, which also included remodelling the 600-metre stretch at Sadar Bazar. We’ll be incorporating around 70% of the elements from the design plan which secured first place in the competition. The remaining 30% has been modified by the MCG to suit the needs of the people visiting there,” said Jitender Garg, joint commissioner, MCG.Garg said that certain elements, such as the allocation of parking space or the design of street vending zone, in the design proposals that were awarded the second and third places are more suitable to the on-ground requirements.“Initially, the redesigning will be done for one week only. Depending on its success we’ll take a call on making it a permanent feature along with few modifications if needed,” said Garg.He further said that he would hold a meeting with around 15 representatives of various associations of Sadar Bazar to explain the design model and apprise them of the week-long trial.“While we support MCG’s initiative for making the market a no-vehicle zone, we’ll need clarity on whether this may lead to a reduction in visitors or have long-term gains. A majority of shopkeepers are under heavy losses due to the coronavirus outbreak. Any further loss due to a reduction in customers will be a major setback for us. So, the implementation has to be done keeping this perspective in mind,” said Bablu Gupta, president, Sadar Bazar Traders Association. Garg said that the steps towards the trial have already started, with the MCG seizing items of around 25 street vendors who were encroaching the pathway and issuing notices to around 20 shopkeepers for allowing street vendors to be stationed outside their premises.In December last year, the ministry of housing and urban affairs had carried out Streets for People Challenge at a national level, with the MCG anchoring the competition in Gurugram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/sadar-bazar-road-to-be-off-limits-for-vehicle-on-a-trial-basis-101612979048214.html
10-02-2021||Gurugram||Work on Dwarka Expressway in Gurugram to be done by August: NHAI||Work on two phases of Dwarka Expressway in Gurugram will be completed by August this year, as more than half the key works on the stretch have been completed, highway authority officials said on Wednesday. Officials of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) said that barring one plot near Kherki Daula, work on the entire stretch is going on at a fast pace and that the Gurugram portion of the 29-kilometre-long road would be completed in the next few months. Several key road projects have been delayed due to the Covid-19 pandemic and issues related to land acquisition. On Tuesday, Gurugram’s member of Parliament and union minister of state, Rao Inderjit Singh, had called upon the union transport minister, Nitin Gadkari, to discuss the Dwarka Expressway and shifting of Kherki Daula toll plaza. The Dwarka Expressway will connect Kherki Daula and Shiva temple at Mahipalpur in Delhi. The road will have a toll plaza near Bijwasan and will reduce traffic on the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway. The road project is being developed in four phases with two each in Gurugram and Delhi. The ₹7,000-crore project was handed over by the Haryana government to the NHAI in 2016, after multiple delays. “The deadline for phases three and four of Dwarka Expressway in Gurugram was December 2020, but due to lockdown, the work suffered delays as large number of workers migrated. Now, the situation is under control and work is going on at a good pace. The only minor hiccup is the transfer of a plot at Kherki Daula, which, if expedited, could help in early completion,” said a senior official, who is not authorised to speak to media. The official said that work on phases 1 and 2 is also expected to be completed in time.Rao Inderjit Singh said that timely completion of the Dwarka Expressway, Sohna Road, U-turn at Ambience Mall is their top priority. “Dwarka Expressway has been a work in progress for the last decade and the project needs an early conclusion. I also raised the issue of shifting of Kherki Daula toll plaza as the concessionaire has earned more revenue than the money spent on constructing and maintaining the expressway,” he said. Shifting of Kherki Daula toll plaza has been delayed due to land litigation at Panchgaon. It has been a long-standing demand of the thousands of residents of developing sectors and people working in Manesar-based factories. Singh also said that he informed Gadkari that work on flyovers at Bilaspur Chowk, Kapdiwas Chowk and Bawal Chowk had progressed only on paper in three years. “I also raised the need for foot overbridges on the Delhi-Jaipur highway, as there are frequent accidents. I was assured by Gadkari ji that all these issues would be taken on priority and resolved,” said Singh. The union transport minister directed the officials to review work on these projects every 15 days and apprise him the status of work and completion timelines, said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/work-on-dwarka-expressway-in-gurugram-to-be-done-by-august-nhai-101612979046484.html
10-02-2021||Gurugram||Encroachments removed from Malibu Towne market||The enforcement team of the Department of Town and Country Planning (DTCP) on Tuesday evening removed encroachments from the market of Malibu Towne residential society on Sohna Road. DTCP officials said that extensions in common areas, corridors and stairs, which were rampant in the market, were removed by their team and an inspection was also conducted on Wednesday.RS Bhath, district town planner, enforcement, said that a wall constructed in front of the commercial complex was removed as it was constructed on the space meant for a service road. “The service road in front of a mall was cleared and the mall management was asked to remove the parking (lot) from the area reserved for the service road. The unauthorised kiosks running illegally in the shopping complex were also sealed,” Bhath said.Earlier on Tuesday, the department also carried out a demolition drive in three colonies in Pataudi and demolished several houses, boundary walls and plinths. In another drive, the enforcement team of the Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) on Wednesday removed encroachments from a one-acre plot owned by the authority in Sector 41. SK Rana, subdivisional engineer, HSVP, said that rooms, kiosks and other vends had been set up illegally on the land owned by the authority and these were removed. The authority has also sent a letter to the local police to keep a watch on the land so that encroachments do not crop up again, said Rana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/encroachments-removed-from-malibu-towne-market-101612979047060.html
10-02-2021||Pune||Man arrested for possessing rare Sambar deer horns||A man was arrested for being in possession of horns of a Sambar deer in Pune on Monday. The arrested man was identified as Chandra Dansingh Avaji (19) a resident of Annabhau Sathey Vasahat in Sahakarnagar, Pune. A case under Sections 2(31), 39, 49, 50, 51(1) of Protection of Wildlife Act and Sections 2, 41, 42, and 52 of Indian Forest Act, 1927 was registered at Dattawadi police station against him. The police received information about a person arriving in Taljai area in order to sell horns of a rare animal, according to a statement of the police. The police were accompanied by forest guard Madhulkar Bhaskar Gagade. The police are now investigating where the man got the horns from and who was he trying to sell it to.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/man-arrested-for-possessing-rare-sambar-deer-horns-101612977606284.html
10-02-2021||Pune||Content writers accept love-letter orders before Valentine’s day||Writing a letter to a loved one may be de rigueur on Valentine’s Day, February 14, but in 2021, a new trend has emerged – outsource the task to a professional writer. Abhijit Sonawane and Amruta Desarda, who run Saarad Majkur, a content writing firm in Navi peth have introduced the concept: ‘”You love someone and we will write a love letter for you”. A post of the concept went viral on social media. “We launched this concept on Saturday (February 6). An idea came while I was having a discussion with my wife Amruta regarding the charm of writing love letters in this era of social media. We came up with a thought of writing a letter for people and posted it on Facebook,” said Sonawane. In the last four days the couple has received 30 phone calls and they have already written 10 letters. “Calls which we are receiving are from different age groups – one I received from Satara - a boy broke up with his girlfriend and he wanted us to pen down a letter through which he can patch up again.” “In one case, a person above 40 said he had written many letters to his soulmate during college, but after marriage he has not written any. Now for this Valentine’s Day, he wants us to pen down his feelings for his wife,” added Sonawane. The firm is open to write letters in three languages – English, Hindi and Marathi, and charges ₹1,000 per letter. The letter will be typed on a coloured paper and it will be delivered in a heart-shaped box with a chocolate. “We are comfortable in all three languages. Our main purpose is our clients feelings should be conveyed in proper words and it is our sole purpose,” explains Desarda, who is lawyer by profession, but left her profession for the love of writing and joined Sonawane, who left journalism in 2015 to open his content writing firm. Sachin Sasar, a senior clerk at a city hospital and a client of Saarad Majkur, says, “In my 38 years I had never written a letter to my wife as I never managed to pen down my feelings. When I heard this concept from mutual friend, I thought I will give it a try and letter has come out really well. It will be a unique gift to my wife.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/content-writers-accept-love-letter-orders-before-valentine-s-day-101612977306240.html
10-02-2021||Pune||53-year-old in custody for sexual assault of minor niece||A 53-year-old man was remanded to five days in police custody by a local court on Wednesday for sexual assault of his nine-year-old niece in Khed, Pune. The arrested man had called the child to the kitchen of his house while the other people were busy and assaulted her. The girl opened up to her parents after which her father lodged a complaint with the local police. “The two families live next to each other. She knew the man very well. The families are into farming as an occupation,” said police sub-inspector Somnath Zende of Chakan police station who is investigating the case. The man was arrested and produced in court on Wednesday. The police will visit the spot and record statements of people in the house on Thursday. A case under Sections 376(1), 376(2)(f), 376(3) of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 3(c)with 4 and 5(n) with 6 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offence (POCSO) Act, 2012 was registered at Chakan police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/53yearold-in-custody-for-sexual-assault-of-minor-niece-101612977247650.html
10-02-2021||Pune||Fake bride racket busted, nine women in police custody||A group of men and women were remanded to the custody of the Pune rural police for duping men in their 30s who were looking to get married by posing as potential matches, marrying them, and fleeing with valuables. The gang of women was caught when their latest victim got suspicious of his new bride’s behaviour only to find that she had been married twice before and has two children, according to the police. “These women have verbally agreed that they have done this with men in Uruli, Khed, and Hadapsar. There might be 10 to 11 victims in total. They were in Divad when they were arrested to bring back the bride after stealing money from her husband’s house. The group also had two other women with them who were supposed to meet with two potential victims,” said senior police inspector Padmakar Ghanwat of Pune rural police local crime branch. The police have nine women and two men in police custody until February 12 while the police look for more of their victims. A case against them was registered by Pune rural police at Vadgaon Maval police station. Jyoti Ravindra Patil, (35), a resident of Kesnand phata in Wagholi, Pune was identified as the main accused in the case, according to the rural police. The woman would look for men in their 30s who were looking to get married and introduced them to women with whom she had pre-plotted to dupe the men of money, according to the police. “The women would either leave the husband after seven to eight days as per their plan by either taking her back to her parent’s house and refusing to return or the married woman would take advantage of a time when nobody else was in the house and would run away with cash and jewellery. The men did not come forward due to fear of losing social respect,” read a statement from the crime branch of the Pune rural police. The arrested women were identified as Mahananda Tanaji Kasle (39), a resident of Kalepadal in Hadapsar; Rupali Subhash Banpatte (37), Kalavati Subhash Banpatte (25), Sarika Sanjay Giri (33), all resident of Vadar gully; Swati Dharma Sable (24), a resident of Bhekrainagar in Hadapsar; Mona Nitin Salunkhe (28), a resident of Manjari; Payal Ganesh Sable (28), a resident of Gadad in Khed, according to the police. The women helped another woman identified as Vidya Satish Khandale pose under the alias of Sonali Machindra Jadhav and accepted a marriage proposal from a man named Ganesh Arjun Sable (32), a resident of Divad in Maval area of Pune. The man who paid ₹2,40,000 for the wedding to the women who arranged the match grew suspicious of his new bride after he heard her conversations with another man over phone calls, according to the police. On February 8 when her relatives were supposed to pick her up for her first visit home after the wedding, Sable’s family grew suspicious of the women who arrived in a Tavera car and an autorickshaw along with two men. The Sable family called the police who arrived home and found ₹20,000 cash in possession of the bride. The women and two men were then arrested and remanded to police custody by a local court on February 9.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/fake-bride-racket-busted-nine-women-in-police-custody-101612977246900.html
10-02-2021||Pune||Pimpri-Chinchwad police solve pending 2018 murder case||The Pimpri-Chinchwad police have solved a case of murder pending since August 2018. The breakthrough came while the police were looking for an accused in a case of vehicle theft. The murder victim, a video panchanama of whom was performed in August 2018, was identified as Sahdev Maruti Solanki (35). Two of the five men involved in the murder case were already in jail in another case of attempted murder, while the police arrested two others, identified as Shankar Bhrahmadev Shinde (27), a resident of Milindnagar; and Ravi Ashok More (27), a resident of Otascheme in Nigdi. Azad Mullani, a resident of Morevasti in Pimpri is yet to be arrested. The two men who are in jail in another, unrelated, case were identified as Amol Basavraj Vale and Rajya, alias Meghraj Sangay Vale, both residents of Milindnagar. Shinde and More were remanded to police custody, while the police are looking for Mullani, according to senior police inspector Kishore Mhasawade of Shirgaon police outpost under Talegain Dabhade police station jurisdiction. The arrests were made based on information gathered by havaldar Shivanand Swamy of Unit 2 of Pimpri- Chinchwad police crime branch. “Our havaldar Swamy found from informants that some people who had killed a man in 2018 were roaming around. The victim was given lot of alcohol to drink in a car and was strangled with a nylon rope by one of these men. The body was thrown into a flowing river with rocks tied to it. They kept the body in the car in a secluded spot through the day and dropped it in the river at night time. A few days later, the body was found and identified and an ADR was registered, but the killers were not found until now,” said senior police inspector Shailesh Gaikwad of unit 2 of Pimpri- Chinchwad police crime branch. The deceased man had been in jail in a murder case along with Mullani. When he came out, he had started extorting and snatching money from people, including the accused, according to the police. A case under Sections 302 (murder), 201 (destruction of evidence), 120(b) (criminal conspiracy), and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code was registered against the five at the Talegaon Dabhade police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pimprichinchwad-police-solve-pending-2018-murder-case-101612977246274.html
10-02-2021||Other||Pune to get six more air quality monitoring systems||PUNE The Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) will be setting up six more air quality monitoring systems in the city.The city will receive ₹50 crore funds from the Union budget to set up the continuous ambient air quality monitoring system (CAAQMS) and undertake other works. The funding will be done in a phase-wise manner, said officials.Other cities which will be receiving funds from the state are Mumbai, Vasai-Virar, Nashik and Nagpur.Mumbai has been allocated with a budget of ₹232 crore while other cities will get ₹50 crore each.“Till now there was only one system in Pune city. Now that the area has widened in past few years, installation of six new systems will help to monitor air quality in a better way,” said an official from Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB), Pune, on condition of anonymity.Along with Pune, MPCB has also decided to add 41 new stations across the state. Currently, there are 101 air inspection quality centres in the state out of which 78 centres are manual and 23 are monitored via continuous ambient air quality monitoring system.According to officials, there are also other criteria like controlling industrial smoke, vehicular emission, biomass burning which should be checked to improve air quality.The urbanisation and increase of vehicular movement have deteriorated the air quality of the city. “MPCB undertakes preventive measures to control air pollution, but lack of public support has made things harder for us. In the coming days, we will also launch a few more programmes in the city to raise awareness about air pollution,” said the official quoted above.Last year, in the same initiative, Pune city had received funds of ₹62 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pune-to-get-six-more-air-quality-monitoring-systems-101612977187575.html
10-02-2021||Other||Six parked Shivshahi buses “set on fire” in Satara; 1 person detained for questioning||PUNE The Satara Police have detained one person into custody for questioning after six Shivshahi buses parked at the state bus-stand were set on fire on Wednesday evening. According to police, the unidentified suspect set the buses on fire around 6 pm. The act was seen by an the unidentified person who has been taken into custody. Nobody was injured in the incident. Authorities claimed that an unstable youth had lit a cigarette and left it inside one of the parked buses, leading to the fire. The fire brigade department took three hours to bring the fire under control. Satara ST depot Manager Reshma Gadekar said, “The buses were hired on rent and had been parked inside since the lockdown period. Notices were issued thrice to the private operator to remove them, but the calls went unheeded. Only the structure remains intact, but the engines are safe and in working condition.” The state transport department maintained that the burnt buses were parked since March. The department could not move the buses to safety as their batteries were not running and the ignition was shut, ST authorities said. Around a dozen buses were parked inside the depot at the time of the accident. Police officials monitoring the situation said that since the bus glasses were broken and the seats were damaged, the accused dumped a lighted cigarette without knowing the consequences. The fuel inside the tanks led to escalation of flames, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/six-parked-shivshahi-buses-set-on-fire-in-satara-1-person-detained-for-questioning-101612977186940.html
10-02-2021||Pune||Pune rural police on the hunt for assailants who shot “goldman”||The Pune rural police are looking for unidentified assailants of a 29-year-old man from Lonikand, who had a criminal record. “The investigation and inquiry is on. There are no arrests as of now. He had come to the panchayat office for his personal work. Near the office, close to an ATM, he was shot at,” said deputy superintendent of police, Sai Bhore-Patil, sub-divisional police officer of Haveli division of Pune rural police. The deceased man was identified as Sachin Nansaheb Shinde (29), a resident of Shindevasti, in the Linkand area of Pune. Owing to his heavy gold ornaments, he was known locally as a “goldman”. A complaint in the matter was lodged by his friend Sudhir Vishnu Shinde (44), also a resident of Shindevasti. The complainant told the police that the assailants arrived near the ATM where Shinde was standing along with three others, including the complainant. The men were allegedly not known to any of the four men who were present. The two had arrived on an orange two-wheeler. The pillion rider alighted the vehicle and shot two rounds at the head of the now-deceased man, before fleeing the spot. The vehicle went in the direction of Perne village along the Pune-Ahmednagar road, according to the complainant. The deceased had multiple cases registered against him including a case of murder in 2018. A case under Sections 302 (murder) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code along with section 3(25) of Arms Act was registered at Lonikand Police station. Pune’s “goldmen” in firing line RAMESH WANJALE Ramesh Wanjale (46) a resident of Pune was the first man to popularise the term “goldman” in Pune. He was a legislator from the Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) party. On June 10, 2011, Ramesh Wanjale died while under treatment after a cardiac arrest in Pune DATTA PHUGE Datta Phuge (44) was a businessman from Pune who had an affinity to gold and had popularised his own picture wearing a gold shirt. Phuge was married to a corporator from Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) Seema Phuge, and they together ran a chit-fund business Phuge was stabbed and bludgeoned to death on July 15, 2016 in Dighi after being dragged out of his car Five people, including his nephew, were arrested for the brutal murder SAMRAT MOZE Samrat Moze (39) was a local businessman who was known for wearing heavy gold ornaments He was related to ex-legislator Rambhau Moze of the NCP Moze died of a cardiac arrest in Pune during the Covid19 lockdown on May 6, 2020||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-rural-police-on-the-hunt-for-assailants-who-shot-goldman-101612977186282.html
10-02-2021||Other||Weight loss, anxiety common symptoms reported by Covid-recovered patients, say Pune doctors||PUNE A presentation on Covid-19 by senior doctors in the city noted that patients lost an incredible amount of weight during treatment and reported anxiety and post-traumatic stress disorder among those who had recovered.The doctors also noted that hypertension and obesity were the most common comorbid conditions reported in Covid-related deaths.The presentation at the collector’s office on Wednesday, saw senior doctors present the treatment procedure and medications used in case of critical and rare Covid cases.Dr Dileep Kadam, professor of medicine, Kashibai Navale Medical College, who is also heading city’s Covid task force, said, “We have seen that in most critical patients weight loss was common and to a great extent. Patients have lost almost 7 kg of weight and in some critical patients we have seen that patients have lost 14 kg just during the treatment.”“The most common psychiatric problems among patients during recovery has been anxiety, post-traumatic stress disorder and excessive use of tobacco. During recovery, patients need psychiatric analysis as part of rehabilitation,” he said.Ayush Prasad, chief executive officer, Zilla Parishad, said, “This was kind of an interaction and brainstorming session for doctors from Pune where we discussed Covid treatment protocol beyond the set SOP’s by the Centre and the state.”“In a situation where a critical patient is not responding well to existing SOP’s the treating doctor has to take the call and look beyond these set procedures. The presentation aimed to provide data and information which will act as a reference in case there are such cases in future,” he said.As of Tuesday, out of the 3.92 lakh Covid cases, 3.87 lakh have recovered while 8,061 were declared dead, according to the state health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/weight-loss-anxiety-common-symptoms-reported-by-covid-recovered-patients-say-pune-doctors-101612977127742.html
10-02-2021||Other||52% of targeted beneficiaries vaccinated in Pune dist; 534 fresh Covid cases reported||PUNE The district on Wednesday reported two deaths due to Covid-related infection in 24 hours. As many as 534 new cases were reported which took the progressive count to 3.92 lakh cases of which 3.78 lakh have recovered, 8,063 have been reported dead and 6,483 are active cases undergoing treatment in hospitals or in home isolation.The district also saw 52% of targeted beneficiaries being vaccinated against the virus including healthcare and frontline workers.The city reported 264 new cases taking the final caseload to 200,580 and zero deaths. The death toll stands at 4,559. Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) reported 132 new cases taking the progressive count to 98,023 and death toll to 1,318. Pune rural reported 138 new cases which took the progressive count to 94,197 cases while two deaths were reported which took the death toll to 2,144.In Pune city, 74 per cent of the target beneficiaries were vaccinated. So out of the targeted 2,500 beneficiaries, 1,843 got vaccinated against the virus including 45 frontline workers.At PCMC 32 per cent of targeted beneficiaries were vaccinated. Out of the 1,600 beneficiaries, a total of 518 beneficiaries got vaccinated including 264 frontline workers and 254 healthcare workers.Pune rural on the other hand reported 42 per cent vaccination or 1,097 beneficiaries got vaccinated including 526 frontline workers. One incident of adverse effect following vaccination was reported which was from Manchar Hospital and was reported to be minor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/52-of-targeted-beneficiaries-vaccinated-in-pune-dist-534-fresh-covid-cases-reported-101612977126871.html
10-02-2021||Other||Pune metro car shed land acquisition work in final stage, PMRDA to start work soon||PUNE Land acquisition for the Pune metro car shed is in its final stage and the Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA) is expected to start work there soon.Pune district collector Rajesh Deshmukh said, “Land acquisition work is in the final stage. All the stakeholders have agreed to hand over the land. Very soon the land will be get officially acquired and used for the metro line between Hinjewadi and Shivajinagar.” PMRDA metropolitan commissioner Suhas Diwase said, “Land acquisition work is carried out by the district collector and we are hoping that the land will be soon available for the metro.” A source from PMRDA, on condition of anonymity, said, “The Pimpri-Chinchwad police had already given permission for barricades in the Hinjewadi area, to start the metro ground work. Very soon citizens would be able to see the work on the ground.” PMRDA is building the Metro line number three which is in between Hinjewadi and Shivajinagar. PMRDA is building the metro on a PPP (public private partnership) model. Instead of money, PMRDA and the state government is handing over land to the contractor for development. The Central government will bear the viability gap funding.The PMRDA metro’s casting shed work is already in progress.Once the land acquisition work happens, PMRDA will be able to start the car-shed work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pune-metro-car-shed-land-acquisition-work-in-final-stage-pmrda-to-start-work-soon-101612977126205.html
10-02-2021||Delhi||Man held for stalking, harassing over 50 women and girls on social media||Police on Wednesday said they had arrested a 19-year-old man from Faridabad for allegedly harassing more than 50 girls and women by stalking them on various social media sites, posing as a woman, and then morphing their photographs. Several morphed and objectionable pictures were found on the mobile phone recovered from the arrested person. He has been booked for using children for pornographic purpose, a case regarding which was registered at a police station in south-west Delhi on a girl’s complaint, the police said. The arrested man, identified as Rahim Khan, has studied up to class 8 and was allegedly involved in operating various morphing mobile applications, deputy commissioner of police (south-west) Ingit Pratap Singh said. DCP Singh said the police had received a complaint that an unknown person started sending the complainant her morphed pictures on her social media account. Based on technical inquiry and details obtained from the social media site, a cyber cell team of the south-west district traced the location of the suspect and nabbed him from his house in Haryana’s Faridabad on Tuesday, the police said. During interrogation, Khan admitted to his involvement in the crime and revealed that he had victimised over 50 girls and women across the country for personal satisfaction, a police officer associated with the case said. “Khan used to send them (girls and women) messages with sexual connotations on social media platforms pretending to be a woman. He even targeted minors and morphed their pictures,” the officer said. The police said they have recovered incriminating evidence including chat details, video clips and photographs of various women from Khan’s mobile phone. Further investigation is underway, the police said, adding that efforts are being made to contact the other victims.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/man-held-for-stalking-harassing-over-50-women-and-girls-on-social-media-101612976526289.html
10-02-2021||Delhi||R-Day violence: Dead farmer’s kin move Delhi HC for court monitored SIT probe||The family of a 25-year-old man, who died after his tractor overturned at Central Delhi’s ITO during the protesting farmers' tractor parade on the Republic Day, moved the Delhi High Court on Wednesday seeking a court-monitored SIT probe into the incident.The petition, which is likely to be listed for hearing on Thursday, is filed by deceased Navreet Singh’s grandfather who has sought enforcement of his right to fair investigation and justice as well as the right to know the truth about his grandson’s death.According to the police, the man had died as his tractor overturned at ITO where many farmers participating in the parade had reached from the Ghazipur border after taking a detour from the pre-agreed route for the march.The police had claimed that the man was driving the tractor and he came under the vehicle as it overturned.However, the petition said that as per eye-witness accounts reported in the media, Navreet was driving his tractor past the Andhra Education Society in New Delhi, and he was allegedly shot by policemen, due to which he lost control of his tractor which thereafter collided with some barricades and overturned.The plea, filed through advocates Vrinda Grover, Soutik Banerjee, Mannat Tipnis and Devika Tulsiani, sought for a court appointed and court monitored Special Investigation Team (SIT) comprising police officers with a demonstrably impeccable record of professional integrity, honesty and efficiency, to carry out time bound investigation into the death of the petitioner Hardeep Singh’s grandson Navreet Singh.It also sought a direction that the SIT shall file periodic status reports before the court to ensure a time bound court monitored investigation.“The petitioner’s grandson was lying in a critically injured condition under the overturned tractor, however, despite the presence of a large number of police men including senior police officials in the vicinity, no attempts were made by Delhi Police to provide immediate critical medical intervention to save the life of the petitioner’s grandson.“Instead, the Delhi Police resorted to tear gas shelling to prevent other protestors from reaching the site where the tractor lay with the petitioner’s grandson’s body underneath. No efforts were made by the Delhi Police to cordon off the site of the incident and to collect time sensitive material evidence from the site, which was allowed to be erased and destroyed,” the petition claimed.It alleged that no steps, as mandated under the Code of Criminal Procedure, were taken by the police after the unnatural death of Navreet to carry out inquest proceedings.“In the face of such apathy and hostility by the Delhi Police, the body of the petitioner’s grandson was recovered by other farmers and later handed over to the petitioner’s family, who took the body to their native place in Rampur, Uttar Pradesh,” it said.The plea said that the entire incident was captured by multiple CCTV cameras installed in the vicinity, however, the police cited technical difficulties and did not facilitate the farmers in viewing the CCTV footage.It said the victim’s post mortem was conducted the next day at the District Hospital in Rampur but the video or x-ray reports were not shared with the family.It said the medical/ forensic experts who have reviewed the description of injuries in the post mortem report have independently made statements, reported by various media houses, opining that the injuries are consistent with firearm / gunshot wounds and that the said injuries could not have resulted from the tractor overturning, as has been repeatedly asserted and announced by the Delhi Police.“The haste with which the Delhi Police has made public statements declaring the incident to be an accident, as well as registered FIRs against senior journalists who have pursued the possibility of Navreet Singh’s death having resulted from a firearm injury, inspires no confidence in the petitioner that the Delhi Police would conduct a fair and honest investigation into the death / murder of his grandson,” it claimed.The petition has arrayed Home Department of Delhi government, SHO of IP Estate police station here, SHO of Bilaspur police station in UP and Chief Medical Officer of District Hospital at Rampur as parties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/rday-violence-dead-farmer-s-kin-move-delhi-hc-for-court-monitored-sit-probe-101612975406665.html
10-02-2021||Pune||Fadnavis to visit PMC on Thursday||PUNE: Former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis will visit Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) on Thursday to review various projects carried out by the municipal body.Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol confirmed that Fadnavis would visit the PMC headquarters in the afternoon. Mohol said, “Fadnavis would take the review of various projects with the municipal commissioner and other officers and later address the media.”During Fadnavis’s leadership, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), for the first time, got a clear majority in Pune Municipal Corporation. According to a civic official on condition of anonymity, Fadnavis used to monitor the progress of various city’s projects during his tenure.The 24x7 water project, formation of Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA), purchase of electric buses and planning of (HCMTR) high capacity mass transit route was carried out when Fadnavis was the chief minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/fadnavis-to-visit-pmc-on-thursday-101612975266006.html
10-02-2021||Pune||10 small shops to come up on Pune railway station premises||Pune: Taking a step towards providing better facilities at the Pune railway station premises, the Indian Railway Stations Development Corporation (IRSDC) Pune division plans to put up 10 new small shops in front of the main gate of the station’s main building. The work of setting up the shops, near one of the boundary walls of the station, has started.As the tenders to bid for the project have been issued, the shops will start functioning within a month, according to a Indian Railway Stations Development Corporation official. Passenger train operations were stopped for three months due to the Covid-19 pandemic outbreak and countrywide lockdown from March 2020. Post lockdown relaxations, special and holiday train operations started from the Pune railway station.The station sees around 80 train operations daily and over 30,000 passengers travelling from the Pune station. “We have started work of new 10 small shops inside the Pune railway station premises. It is for the benefit of passengers. The shops will include food stalls and also other essential product shops. The work has already begun at the station premises and will be completed within a month. The tender work of these shops is going on and allotted to firms and people as per rules,” said Ramesh Khot, nodal officer IRSDC Pune. The shops are installed near the entrance gate of the main Pune railway station building. The location has been chosen as the space sees many passengers come to board trains. A food van is already functioning at this location for passengers, according to Khot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/10-small-shops-to-come-up-on-pune-railway-station-premises-101612974245857.html
10-02-2021||Chandigarh||Stolen cheques encashed: Axis Bank told to refund ₹5.5 lakh||The District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission has directed Axis Bank to refund ₹5.5 lakh, fraudulently withdrawn from a man’s bank account through stolen cheques.The complainant, Shiv Parshad, of Gulmohar Colony in Kharar, had submitted that his landlord’s son stole eight leaves of his chequebook and withdrew ₹5.5 lakh from his salary account in Axis Bank, Phase 7 on various dates in August and September 2018.Parshad, who works as a gardener for PUDA, Phase 8, alleged that the bank did not verify the signatures on the cheques or take any precautions while disbursing the claimed amount.Disposing of the complaint, commission president Sanjiv Dutt Sharma directed the bank to refund ₹5.5 lakh to the complainant, along with interest at 9% per annum from the dates of withdrawal till actual payment. Besides, the bank was directed to pay ₹1 lakh as compensation to the complainant for carelessness, lack of duty and negligence on their part.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/stolen-cheques-encashed-axis-bank-told-to-refund-5-5-lakh-101612973345673.html
10-02-2021||Pune||Ayush products see 44% rise in sale post Covid outbreak: Vaidya Rajesh Kotecha||According to Vaidya Rajesh Kotecha, secretary to the Union ministry of Ayurveda, Yoga and Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homoeopathy (Ayush), the commercial growth potential in Ayush sector has seen a boost as many people have turned to Ayurveda and followed Ayush guidelines to keep themselves safe during the Covid-19 pandemic. Excerpts from the media interaction at SPPU campus.What has been the role of Ayurveda in Covid prevention?We have not only carried out profile and chemical studies, but have also started pre-clinical studies. It is been conducted in department of biotechnology (DBT), department of science and technology (DST), department of pharmaceuticals (DPT) and corporate social responsibility (CSR) laboratories and other government of India organisations. What we found is that these candidates have developed very good anti-virus activity against Covid-19, some of the plants are as effective as Remdesivir. The initial trend is encouraging for our research work. Another interesting study which we found is that Ashwagandha is equally effective as Hydroxychloroquine. It is also a randomise control trial. The purpose of the consortium is also to take this research study at a further level.Your observation on increased demand for Ayush products during the Covid periodDue to large-scale sensitisation and steps taken by Ayush towards mitigation of Covid, the commerce of Ayush has increased. In the last one year, the Ayush sector has seen 44 per cent growth. Some of the products have seen tremendous growth with 500 to 700 per cent post the Covid outbreak. For example, Chavanprash products have seen 700 per cent of growth, Ashwagandha export increased three times than the previous periods. These figures underline the fact that converting research outcome with public acceptance into commerce will benefit all. Generally, students prefer to pursue career in modern medicines than Ayurveda. What is the way forward? It is a popular myth. In this academic year after the NEET exams, many states reported vacant seats in medical colleges and some of the premium Ayurveda institutions were filled up. It is true that in general students prefer MBBS course which is normal, but it does not mean that Ayurveda courses are not in demand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/ayush-products-see-44-rise-in-sale-post-covid-outbreak-vaidya-rajesh-kotecha-101612972985581.html
10-02-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University staff to get full pension benefits after 25 years of service||Panjab University employees will now get full retirement benefits after 25 years of service against the earlier condition of 33 years.However, this will be applicable only to employees appointed before January 1, 2004.The amendment to the Panjab University (Pension) Regulations, 1991, was published in the Gazette of India on February 8. PU registrar Vikram Nayyar said, “The amendment in the regulations has been done on the basis of Punjab Civil Services Rules and has been approved by the government.”Punjab government had announced full pension to employees after 25 years of service in 2012. Since then, it had been demanded by the Panjab University Teachers Association (PUTA) as well and was one of the main agendas of the last PUTA elections.“We are satisfied that our long-standing demand has been fulfilled,” said PUTA president Mritunjay Kumar.300 days of earned leave Through another amendment, PU teachers will get 300 days of earned leave instead of the earlier 180 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panjab-university-staff-to-get-full-pension-benefits-after-25-years-of-service-101612972325557.html
10-02-2021||Pune||Centre, SPPU sign MoU to promote Ayush practices||Pune: The Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) and Ayush (Ayurveda, Yoga and Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homeopathy) with various national and international institutions signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the consortium of Ayush institutions on Wednesday. The tie-up will help in research activities, realising the need to study, understand, validate and integrate the Ayush systems, according to the varsity officials. The consortium comprises group of institutions of national importance – Teaching Research in Ayurveda (ITRA), Jamnagar, Gujarat; National Institute of Ayurveda (NIA), Jaipur, Rajasthan and Rashtriya Ayurveda Vidyapeeth (RAV), New Delhi. The MoU was signed at the function organised at SPPU main building. Vaidya Rajesh Kotecha, secretary, ministry of Ayush; Prof Nitin Karmalkar, SPPU vice-chancellor; Bhushan Patwardhan, vice-chairman, University Grants Commission (UGC) and senior officials from related organisations were present. Patwardhan was appointed national research professor at Ayush on Wednesday. “The MoU covers institutions that are involved in research work in Ayurveda. So, four national institutions have come together for capacity building and skill development related to Ayush practices. It marks a major step for SPPU and the initiative is led Kotecha and Patwardhan as it is their project and SPPU is a facilitator.” said Prof Karmalkar. Talking about the plans post signing of MoU, Patwardhan said, “The consortium represents the reputed institutions of Ayush ministry. As one of the major requirements in Ayush sector is research capacity building, the collaboration will help meet that demand. While several steps were taken at the ministry level after the Covid outbreak, the MoU is first step towards strengthening the science base of Ayurveda. So, we are not just talking about practices, but are actually undertaking robust research and this is just a humble beginning.” Kotecha said, “The experience of Covid-19 pandemic has given an opportunity to look at the potential of research in Ayush. A lot of scope is seen based on science. We are into 114 studies as of now and these studies were robustly designed. They have given us results with effective human resource. If we upgrade these studies then it will be an asset for our country. People at large have accepted it, as it is at the hearts of the people and upgradation of human resource is necessary now for research projects. By establishing this consortium, we want to set up a benchmark in a few months so we can lead to a formal institution building.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/centre-sppu-sign-mou-to-promote-ayush-practices-101612970344868.html
10-02-2021||Pune||Awareness leads to better sex ratio in Pune city||Pune: Sex ratio (number of females per 1,000 males) within Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits has improved at 946 in 2020 from 904 in 2019. The civic officials credit the narrowing of gender gap to awareness programmes targeting young and middle-aged women. In 2019, the sex ratio in Pune city had seen a drastic drop to 904. It was 932 in 2016 and since then the drop in sex ration was registered. Dr Kalpana Baliwant, PMC assistant health chief responsible for the implementation of the Pre-Conception and Pre-Natal Diagnostic Techniques (PCPNDT) in the city, said that the department has undertaken various awareness initiatives to improve the sex ratio scenario.“We are targeting women who are middle-aged and working professionals. These women are in a position to take a decision and are also influencers in their respective families and neighbourhood. Hence, we decided to change the target audience for awareness campaigns,” said Baliwant.The official said that the health department is also holding awareness campaigns at IT companies, government offices and other workplaces targeting women staff.“We should focus on women who are influencers in the family. We have made short films showcasing how our societies are changing. How girls are more independent now. Positive stories of changed narration are the base. This will help us change the mindset of people with respect to the girl child. And will also help and encourage the birth of a girl child,” said Baliwant.City-based women rights activist Kiran Moghe welcomed the improved sex ratio of Pune city.“The improved sex ratio is the proof that effective implementation of the PCPNDT act by the health department can work wonders. It is important that the awareness work continues and this positive change further reflects this year as well,” said Moghe. Gender gap narrowsPMC attributes better sex ratio to awareness programmes targeting young and middle age women PMC birth report 2016-2020Year--Sex ratio (per thousand male)2016--9322017--9262018--9272019--9042020-- 946*Source: PMCSex ratio in Maharashtra (per thousand male)National Family Health Survey-5 (2019-2020) (Urban)--954National Family Health Survey-5 (Rural)--977National Family Health Survey-5 (Total)—966National Family Health Survey-4 (2015-2016) (Urban)—935National Family Health Survey-4 (Rural)--967National Family Health Survey-4 (Total)—952*National Family Health Survey-3 (2005-2006) Total-972Urban and rural data is unavailable for NFHS 3||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/awareness-leads-to-better-sex-ratio-in-pune-city-101612968364783.html
10-02-2021||Chandigarh||FDCI president Sunil Sethi receives honorary doctorate from Chitkara University||Sunil Sethi, president of the Fashion Design Council of India (FDCI), was awarded an honorary doctorate in literature by Chitkara University on Wednesday.Since Sethi took over the leadership of FDCI in 2008, it has grown to represent more than 350 designers. In 1988, he set up Alliance Merchandising, a sourcing and buying company, whose clients included premium global brands like Armani Casa, Crate & Barrel and Anthropologie. He has received lifetime achievement award from Export Promotion Council For Handicrafts and the Carpet Export Promotion Council, both sponsored by Union ministry of textiles.In his valedictory speech, Sethi said, “I’m delighted to be a recipient of this coveted honour. I have always been passionate about my work in fashion and product design, which drives me towards excellence.”Chancellor of Chitkara University, Ashok Chitkara, said, “Sethi is a stalwart of the India fashion industry, an extraordinary entrepreneur and a luminary who helped bring Indian fashion to the global stage. He has paved the way for young, ambitious designers to aspire for global success. He will continue to strengthen the fashion industry through his role as a mentor, and president of FDCI.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/fdci-president-sunil-sethi-receives-honorary-doctorate-from-chitkara-university-101612966025205.html
10-02-2021||Other||Mohali MC polls: Congress manifesto promises bus stand in centre of city||The Congress on Wednesday released its 34-point manifesto for the Mohali municipal corporation elections scheduled on February 14.Addressing the media at a private hotel in Phase 9, cabinet minister Balbir Singh Sidhu promised to construct a new bus stand in the centre of the city for the convenience of people, as the Baba Banda Singh Bahadur Inter State Bus Terminus was in Phase 6 and under litigation.“We will implement need-based policy for residential houses and also allow construction of first floor in commercial and bay shops,” he said. He assured to establish one more fire station, cow shed and a local bus service, besides underground parking under all public parks in the city.To check crime, CCTV cameras will be installed at all important places. A state-of-the-art skill development institute will be set up to provide skilled workers to the industry and increase employment opportunities for the youth. Besides, road carpeting will be done with new techniques to maintain equal level of roads, Sidhu said.Expressing confidence about Congress’ win, the minister said they had no opponent in the elections and will win on the basis of the development work done by the party over the past few years. On the occasion, senior Congress leaders, including former senior deputy mayor Rishav Jain, Kharar Market Committee chairman Harkesh Sharma, Kuljeet Singh Bedi, Rajinder Singh Rana, Amarjit Singh Jeeti Sidhu, Harpreet Singh Bunty, Victor Niholka, HS Riar and Kamalpreet Singh Banni, were also present.KEY PROMISES IN 34-POINT MANIFESTONew bus stand in the centre of the cityMore government schools and upgrade of existing onesNeed-based housing policyUnderground parking under all public parksCCTV cameras at important places and Wi-Fi in all markets State-of-the-art skill development instituteNew cow shed on 10.5 acres A new fire station||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mohali-mc-polls-congress-manifesto-promises-bus-stand-in-centre-of-city-101612960864414.html
10-02-2021||Other||15,000 metric tonnes of grapes exported so far... but Covid issues in Europe raise challenges for exporters||PUNE Grape exports from Maharashtra have begun for this season, but exporters are facing various problems this year due to the Covid-19 pandemic situation in Europe.Jagannath Khapre, president, All India Grape Export Association, said, “The pandemic is going on and grape exports are facing some problems. Small exporters are not coming forward and only big players are exporting. As there is uncertainty about the lockdown in many countries, it is creating a challenge for grape producers and exporters.”Khapre added, “This year, the grape quality is very good and grapes are in enough quantity. Daily, 50 to 60 containers are going to Europe. At least 15,000 metric tonnes of grapes have been exported this year. But, due to the uncertainty, farmers need to pay extra transport costs. Only supermarkets are on in Europe and retail and wholesale markets are closed, which also affects exports.”Nanasaheb Patil, a farmer from Nashik district who is also director of National Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Fedration (Nafed), said , “Export of grapes is going on, but for the last few days farmers are getting lower prices. Even the transport cost increased this year.”Vineyard owner Vilas Gangurde said, “This year, the production is better of good quality, but due to the uncertainty, I prefer to sell the produce in local markets instead of exporting.”Maharashtra is a major grape producer in the country with at least three lakh hectares under grape cultivation. Average grape exports from India are around 2.5 lakh metric tonnes more than 70 per cent of which is from Maharashtra.Where the grapes goIndia exports grapes to the Netherland, Russia, UK, Bangladesh, Germany, UAE, Saudi Arabia, Thailand, Hong Kong, Malyasia, Canada, China, and Denmark, besides other countriesYear Quantity in metric tonnnes exported2017- 18 1,88,2212018- 19 2,46,1332019-20 1,93,6902020-21 15,000 metric tonnes (only to Europe; figures not available for other countries)Source: Agricultural and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority (APEDA)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/15000-metric-tonnes-of-grapes-exported-so-far-but-covid-issues-in-europe-raise-challenges-for-exporters-101612958462209.html
10-02-2021||Pune||Literary fraternity in Pune helps young writer’s bereaved family by selling his book||Pune: The demise of a young writer in a road accident brought together his friends in the literary fraternity to extend a helping hand to the bereaved family. Swapnil Kolte-Patil, 32, had created his identity as a promising literary figure in a short span of time through his historical novel and poems. He died in a road accident at Uruli Kanchan on Solapur highway when another vehicle hit his two-wheeler on January 27. Kolte-Patil’s friends have taken the initiative to sell his newly published novel “Mukaddar” that narrates the life of Mughal ruler and emperor of India (1658–1707) Aurangzeb. According to the young writer’s friend, “Mukaddar” was published just a few days before Kolte died in the accident. They feel that his writings are the only memories of him and his family needs support. Kolte-Patil is survived by his wife, two children and an elderly mother. His fellow writers and publisher have been encouraging people to buy his newly published book and the funds collected will be deposited in the name of Kolte-Patil’s 10-year-old daughter and three-year-old son. “We had kept a target of selling 5,000 copies of “Mukaddar” in a month. Except for the printing cost, money collected from the sale will go to his family. Sharad Tandale, the publisher of the book, has offered to not take any commission. We are managing distribution of the book to check expenditure. As most writers do not earn enough for a decent living, we all have come together to support his family,” said Abhishek Kumbhar, writer. According to the publisher, 5,000 copies of “Mukaddar” were sold in just 10 days and 5,000 more copies are being printed. Kolte-Patil became known in literary circles after his poem collection “Unad” was published. He was also popular as a “shahir” (ballard poet). “We had started to work on a novel named “Sheredakkhan”. It would have been our first novel together. I am working on this book. Meanwhile, we are taking steps to help his family and secure the future of his two kids,” said Ketan Puri, writer||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/literary-fraternity-in-pune-helps-young-writer-s-bereaved-family-by-selling-his-book-101612957562918.html
10-02-2021||Other||GHMC Mayoral poll: TRS likely to emerge victorious on February 11||Election for the posts of Mayor and Deputy Mayor of Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation, which witnessed pitched battle between ruling TRS and BJP in December last, will be held on Thursday and K Chandrashekhar Rao-led outfit has fair chances to bag both the positions as a single largest party. The Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) party bagged 56 divisions, while BJP secured 48 divisions and MIM won in 44 divisions and Congress won in two divisions, in the 150-seat civic body. The BJP's strength has come down to 47 following the death of one of its members. The saffron party, which gave run for TRS money has also decided to put up its candidates for both Mayor and Deputy Mayor, its chief spokesperson K Krishna Saagar Rao said. "BJP is contesting for both Mayor and Deputy Mayoral positions in the spirit of democracy and to oppose the opportunist, dubious election of TRS party's design to attain Mayor position through backhand deal with AIMIM. TRS did not get people's mandate to run GHMC, the mandate was fractured and leaned massively towards BJP," he told PTI. TRS sources said their Mayoral and Deputy Mayoral candidates names will be given to its members in sealed covers. The Lok Sabha MPs and MLAs, who have their vote in the city are ex-officio members of the corporation. Besides, MLCs and Rajya Sabha members, who have their vote in the city, have to give an option, choosing the GHMC, to be able to vote, official sources said. According to GHMC sources, there are 44 ex-officio member votes in the GHMC and TRS has 32 followed by MIM 10, BJP 2 who are eligible to vote taking the total number of votes to 194. With ex-officio member votes, the TRS strength goes up to 88, MIM 54 and BJP 49 leading to total 193. There has to be a quorum of 50 per cent (97) of the members to conduct Mayor Elections and whichever candidate secures more number of votes will be elected as the Mayor. The election will be held at 12.30 PM on February 11 and an hour earlier all the 150 corporators would be administered the oath, the Telangana State Election Commission (SEC) said on Wednesday. Further, if for any reason the elections are not held on February 11, it will be held the next day, the SEC had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ghmc-mayoral-poll-trs-likely-to-emerge-victorious-on-february-11-101612953554689.html
10-02-2021||Other||Man, his four minor sons found dead in Rajasthan||A 40-year-old man allegedly killed his four sons, aged between two and six, before hanging himself from the ceiling of his room in Rajasthan’s Banswara district on Wednesday, a police officer said. The killings came to light when his wife, who was out for some work, returned home and discovered the bodies of the five.Also Read | Five, including Delhi cop, booked for abetting Gurugram property dealer’s suicidePolice superintendent Kavendra Sagar cited preliminary investigation and said the man was alcoholic would often beat his sons and wife under the influence of alcohol. “On Wednesday, he had a heated argument with his wife.” He added the man, a farmer, may have killed his sons under the influence of alcohol. Sagar said it appears that after killing his sons, he died by suicide. He added no suicide note has been found.Sagar said the bodies would be handed over to their relatives after their post-mortem. He added the further investigation is on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/man-his-four-minor-sons-found-dead-in-rajasthan-101612953783049.html
10-02-2021||Mumbai||Republic TV tells court that chargesheet shows no evidence against Arnab Goswami||ARG Outlier Media,the company that runs all Republic TV channels, has told the Bombay High Court that the Mumbai police's charge sheet in the fake TRP scam did not disclose any evidence against Republic TV and its editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami, who is an accused in the case.In a rejoinder affidavit filed on Tuesday in the high court to counter the police's charge sheet, the company said the police had "falsely implicated" its employees in the case.It said the entire case against its channels and employees arose out of an "unparalleled political vendetta" and a "deeply malicious witch hunt".The company also said its employees had been targeted for the "fearless news reporting" done by the Republic TV on the Maharashtra police's investigation into the case of actor Sushant Singh Rajput's death and Palghar lynching incident of last year.Rajput was found hanging at his home in Mumbai's Bandra area in June last year.The ARG Outlier Media in its affidavit said Hansa Research Group, the original complainant in the case, had not named the Republic TV or its employees in its complaints.The company further said the Mumbai police's crime branch too had not found any evidence against its channels or employees, and yet, the police named its channels and their employees, including their top management, as accused and suspects in its charge sheet."The charge sheet though voluminous in weight is negligible in evidence against petitioners," the affidavit said, adding "there is not a single shred of evidence of wrongdoing in the charge sheet".The company has also alleged in the affidavit that the police harassed and physically tortured some of its employees, including Assistant Vice President Ghanshyam Singh.It said Singh, CEO Vikas Khanchandani, and some others were pressurised to implicate the Republic TV and other accused persons in the case."It is a matter of public record that Mr Singh was physically and medically tortured in custody to falsely self incriminate, and to falsely incriminate his organisation," the affidavit said.The company also said the purported WhatsApp chats between Arnab Goswami and Partho Dasgupta, the former CEO of Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC), were selectively leaked by the police to "create prejudice".It also said in the affidavit that no actual stakeholders, be it advertisers, or media houses, which were supposedly affected by the alleged fake TRP scam, had come forward as complainants in the case.The Mumbai police last month filed two affidavits in the case through city Commissioner of Police Parambir Singh, and ACP Shashank Sandbhor of the crime branch, saying the police had not targeted the Republic TV or its employees.The police said their probe was not a result of any political vendetta.A bench of Justices SS Shinde and Manish Pitale is presiding over a bunch of pleas filed by the ARG Outlier Media, seeking, among other things, that no coercive action be taken against its employees and the probe be transferred from the Mumbai police to the CBI or any other independent agency.The fake Television Rating Points (TRP) scam came to light last year when the ratings agency BARC filed a complaint through the Hansa Research Group, alleging that certain television channels were rigging TRP numbers.TRP, measured by recording viewership data at sample households, is crucial for attracting advertisers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/republic-tv-tells-court-that-chargesheet-shows-no-evidence-against-arnab-goswami-101612949108963.html
10-02-2021||Delhi||Delhi records no Covid death since May 2020: Key points||No fresh Covid-19 death was recorded in the national capital on Tuesday for the first time since May 11, 2020. Here is what we know about the pandemic in Delhi and the fight against it:• Delhi has experienced three waves of infections with the latest one in November being the deadliest.• A total of 10,882 people have died of Covid in the city since the death of a 69-year-old woman from Janakpuri was reported on March 13, 2020. • The highest number of Covid-19 cases in a day (8,593) was recorded on November 11, 2020.• On November 18, 2020, the city recorded the highest number of single-day deaths (131).Also Read | Covid-19: Vital to learn as much about the earliest outbreak days says US• The numbers have been improving since then.• Hundred new cases on Tuesday were reported from 56,410 tests conducted the previous day.• They took the case tally to 636,260, but active cases were down to 1,052. • The day’s positivity rate (confirmed infections among tests conducted) dipped to 0.18%. • It was 15.33% on November 15,2020 – the highest since June 27,2020 (15.37%)—and has been on a decline since.• New deaths usually reflect infections that took place three-four weeks ago.• Delhi was one of the earliest hot spots in India’s Covid-19 outbreak.• It is the only region in the country that has reported three distinct waves of infections. • The first started in mid-June last year and peaked when the seven-day average of daily cases touched around 3,400 in the last week of June. • This receded by the end of July, 2020 when it dropped to around 1,000 daily cases.• The second wave started at the end of August, 2020, rising until mid-September, when average daily cases touched 4,174 for the week ending September 17, 2020.• This again dropped to 2,574 in the week ending October 9, 2020, before the onset of the third wave. • The third wave raged through October and November, 2020. • Delhi recorded 96 Covid-19 cases on January 27, the lowest in over nine months, and the first time the daily count stood below the 100-mark. • On Friday and Sunday, two deaths were reported in the national capital, same as on February 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-records-no-covid-death-since-may-2020-key-points-101612948862400.html
10-02-2021||Delhi||Delhi: NDMC bans road cutting in its areas till March 31||The New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) has banned road cutting in its areas till March 31 except for urgent repair or maintenance work."Keeping in view ensuing Swacch Sarvekshan-2021, there will be ban on road cutting from February 9 to March 31, except for urgent repairs, maintenance work for restoration of services," Chief Engineer, Sanjay Gupta, said in an order.NDMC areas are home to the high and mighty of the country, including Union ministers and parliamentarians besides many top industrialists. Parliament House, offices of all the ministries, Supreme Court, High Court and residences of Supreme Court judges, senior bureaucrats and senior military officers are in NDMC areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-ndmc-bans-road-cutting-in-its-areas-till-march-31-101612947819083.html
10-02-2021||Bangalore||Inadequate public transport forces dependence on pvt vehicles in India: Experts||Rapido, a mobility startup, on Wednesday launched two-wheeler motorcycle rental services across six cities in the country, including Bengaluru, that allows continuity of services for its growing number of users in urban centres.The launch indicates how startups are cashing in on the increased demand for private vehicles as the preferred choice for commuting in the face of a steady decline of public transportation services usage for reasons that include time, poor connectivity and fears of contracting Covid-19, which remains as potent a threat in urban centres as it was a year before.With fares ranging from ₹99 for 10km to ₹599 for 60km, the services offered are not just cheaper than other available commute options, including four-wheeler cab aggregators, but are also a more effective mode of transport in congested and overcrowded urban centres where two-wheelers are preferred to easily navigate traffic snarls, narrow roads and save time among other advantages.Also Read | 2020 worst year in history for air travel demand: IATAThe services were launched in Bengaluru, Delhi-NCR, Hyderabad, Chennai, Kolkata and Jaipur.“In the last few months, we have noticed a rising need for multi-stop, affordable and easily accessible rides among customers, especially our high usage customers. With Rapido Rental, we aim to address the need of such users who have a use case of multi-point travel,” Aravind Sanka, co-founder, Rapido, said in a statement.Other startups like Vogo and Bounce have also seen a surge in demand for their two-wheeler shared services in cities like Bengaluru that beat 414 other cities across 57 countries to win the title of having the worst traffic globally in 2019.The list by Tom Tom, a Netherlands-based global provider of navigation, listed Mumbai, Pune and New Delhi as the other Indian cities who made it to the top 10 of the list in 2019.A 2020 report by Tom Tom to gauge the return of congestion in the post-pandemic world, pointed out that road traffic in India’s four biggest cities--Mumbai, Bengaluru, Delhi, and Pune--have crawled back to pre-pandemic levels after almost a year of lockdown.Delays in completion of key mass-transit projects like Metro, suburban rail and shortcomings in reviving fledgling public buses are weighing in on the rapidly shifting dynamics of city commutes across the country. A process that has hastened since the onset of the Covid-19 pandemic.V.Ravichandar, a Bengaluru-based urban infrastructure expert, said that authorities can soften the impact of delays in construction like that of the Metro by augmenting bus services as a viable transport option.“Emphasis on public transportation whether it be through bus fleet augmentation or expediting the Metro construction overall has taken a back seat, leaving the space for private cars which leads to traffic jams and associated problems,” he said.In a city like Bengaluru that is situated over 820 sqkm, the Metro, which accounts for the highest public expenditure, barely transports 500,000 of the total 10 million population at the peak of its usage. Most of the city’s IT corridors like Whitefield, Outer Ring Road and Electronic City are yet to be connected by Metro, forcing professionals in India’s IT capital to pursue, what is possibly, an irreversible trend of dependence on private vehicles.The other problem experts have often raised is the lack of a coordinated approach and strategy to connect or intertwine different modes of transport to make it more transition.Dependence on private vehicles has also given a free hand to authorities to appropriate tree-felling to widen roads, albeit in pockets, that shifts bottlenecks rarely addressing the real problems faced by millions living in unplanned and rapidly growing urban centres across the country.The rapid erosion of green cover, heightened construction activity to house the large number of migrant workers among others and increasing number of private vehicles on city roads have also contributed to deteriorating quality of life due to pollution.While electric mobility has seen increased adoption, it does not have the answer to physical vehicles on the road, lack of parking spaces and other problems.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/inadequate-public-transport-forces-dependence-on-pvt-vehicles-in-india-experts-101612946102211.html
10-02-2021||Chandigarh||Muslim law allows minor girls to marry on attaining puberty: Punjab and Haryana HC||In an order passed by the Punjab and Haryana high court, the court said that a minor Muslim girl who is less than 18 years of age and has attained puberty is free to marry anyone as per the Muslim Personal Law.In the order passed by Justice Alka Sarin while hearing a petition moved by a Muslim couple from Punjab, the judge observed that a Muslim girl is governed by the Muslim Personal Law. The petitioners, a 36-year-old man and 17-year-old girl, got married on January 21, 2021 as per Muslim ceremonies but against the wishes of their family members. Justice Sarin observed that the petitioners cannot be deprived of their fundamental rights because their family members were against the marriage.The court in its judgment referred to Article 195 of Muslim Personal Law saying that a Muslim girl on attaining the age of puberty was competent to enter into a contract of marriage with a person of her choice.Article 195 of the Muslim Personal Law says, “Every Mohomedan (Muslim) of sound mind, who has attained puberty, may enter into a contract of marriage. Lunatics and minors who have not attained puberty may be validly contracted in marriage by their respective guardians. A marriage of a Mohomedan who is (of) sound mind and has attained puberty is void if it is brought about without his consent.”The court therefore observed that the girl, being over 17 years of age was competent to enter into a contract of marriage with a person of her choice as both the petitioners are of marriageable age as per the Muslim Personal Law.The court also directed Mohali SSP to take appropriate action to ensure the safety and security of the couple.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/muslim-law-allows-minor-girls-to-marry-on-attaining-puberty-punjab-and-haryana-hc-101612944075257.html
10-02-2021||Other||Sutradhara’s tales: Pune’s history goes back 2000 years… Satavahana era revealed||So far, the story of Pune has taken us through obscure lanes of prehistoric and proto-historic periods, where we witnessed the activities of early Punekars. But, until recently there has no discussion about the “historical” man who inhabited the landscape in the form of some significant material evidence. As we saw in previous pieces, the historical period for India begins when the evidence of readable script and significant material remains is noticed, which coincides with foundation of Buddhist and Jain religion in sixth century BCE. For the Deccan region, which Pune is part of, the sporadic Ashokan inscriptions dating to third century BCE form the first evidence, but the rise in number of settlements can be seen during Satavahana period which is the first empirical dynasty rising amongst various ruling clans in the Deccan. The Satavahanas find mention in Puranas and are known to rule from latter half of second century BCE to third century CE. They are also credited with extending patronage to various Buddhist caves in the region and several inscriptions in Brahmi script are found in rock-cut caves in western Maharashtra. Numismatists (studying coins) and epigraphists (studying inscriptions), have helped us refine the chronology of the various Satavahana rulers as well as the important contemporary dynasties and their vassals. The principle town and capitals during that period were Junnar, Nashik and Paithan, where excavations have yielded archaeological remains of these times. For the sake of ease, although approximately, the politically reigns of important dynasties have been used to classify certain periods of history. But, it doesn’t mean all the evidence found from that period is due to direct patronage or belongs to the political rule. There had been reports of Satavahana period habitation sites or early historic sites in the vicinity of Pune till 2002-2003. Such sites have been reported from Junnar, Songaon, Inamgaon, Pavana valley, Shirval, near Indapur, etc. But, the humble town of Pune was never thought of supporting any early historic remains. Bhosari explorations had also yielded remains of pottery from this early historic period. Senior historian, Pandrang Balkawade has been traversing the bylanes of Kasba peth of Pune for years now as he went to work, or daily visited Bharat Itihas Samshodhak Mandal for study of medieval history. Being a scholar of archival study, one may imagine him getting lost in the glorious folds of chronicles of Maratha history, but not particularly observe anything significant amongst the mundane rubbles of new constructions being erected in the old Kasba peth area. But, inquisitive Balkawade noticed the foundations pits dug for new building yielding unusual amount of potsherds and ceramics, which definitely seemed to be of older origin (2002-2003). Intrigued by the discovery, he invited Dr Rajguru and Dr Vasant Shinde of Deccan College to conduct an enquiry into these rather unusual finds. As discussed in my earlier writings, conducting a full- scale excavation in a bustling old town is an uphill task. But, the salvaging operation was done as part of an “Urban excavation” to study the archaeological material in the pits. The entire study area was located to right bank of the river Mutha. The studied pits were located in the foundations at Ashtekar wada, Lawalekar wada, Tapare wada and two pits in Kagajipura. which was a medieval settlement manufacturing paper from Shaiste Khan’s occupancy of Pune in 17th century CE. The area that was encompassing these scattered pits was roughly 10 hectares. Later, from 2004 to 2006, some more pits located in Pawale chowk, Kasba Ganpati temple, Satatoti chowk, Jogeshwari temple, Shaniwar peth and assorted locations were studied. Dr Joglekar’s team’s study later reconfirmed that these were not the scattered sites, but a continuous township which was occupied permanently. Geographically, the two main southern tributaries of river Mutha, Ambil and Nagzhari flow to the river and the seasonal flood deposits of these streams and river have alluvial terraces on the base basalt bedrock. These natural terraces were secured and selected for occupation by the historical inhabitants for security and to access the river water. Dr Rajuguru and his team of geo-archaeologist who studied the strata and hydrology noted that in this part of the Holocene period, the area saw better rainfall and better vegetation which led to an increase in the number of permanent habitation sites. This was seen all across the Deccan and especially along river banks. The deposits were in the layers of approximately three metres of which 1.3 metres dated to the Satavahana era (second century BCE to third century CE). Like in the case of many historical archaeology excavations, the pottery and ceramics were reported in large numbers. They not only help us date the historical layers, but also provide an insightful peep into the food habits, cooking processes and manufacturing techniques of those times. We shall see these types and their significance in the next part of this column. Apart from the pottery, there were many shell bangles, beads, terracotta animal figurines, terracotta beads were reported. Terracotta beads might have been used in slings or in ornaments. A rotary quern which was seen in early historically sites, possibly a Roman influence, were also found. The later versions used for grinding grains are seen in many rural households even today. Skin rubbers known as vajri in Marathi were found (ancestors definitely paid attention to personal hygiene!). Medieval, colourful glass bangles were found in excavations Metal objects, minor antiquities were reported from the site. Some bone points sharpened that can be used on arrows hunting were found. Many animal remains including bones of cattle, goat, rat and wild animals such as Nilgai and Black buck were reported. Fish bones were reported pointing to fresh water fishing activity. A brick wall made of the early historic period bricks (more than foot long) were found at Ashtekar wada marking a significant structural find. Busting the previous theories of Pune originating in Rashtrakuta times or even during Maratha period in 17th century, the study of evidences from these pits changed the history of Pune forever and took it back 2,000 years ago to Satavahana times! It also informed us that Pune was under continuous occupation for the last 2s000 years. And yet another significant highlight of this “salvage excavation” will be revealed where we trace Pune’s international connection in the next column! Watch this space!||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sutradharas-tales-pune-s-history-goes-back-2000-years-satavahana-era-revealed-101612944481481.html
10-02-2021||Mumbai||Fire breaks out at cylinder godown in Mumbai's Versova, 4 injured||As many as four persons sustained injuries after a massive fire broke out in a cylinder godown on Wednesday in Mumbai's Versova area.According to the Mumbai Fire Brigade team, the incident took place near the Anjuman school area on Yari road at around 10 am this morning.Seven fire engines have rushed to the site along with police officials. The fire-brigade has declared it as a level-2 fire."The fire broke out due to cylinder blast," the officials at the spot informed."The injured has been rushed to Cooper Hospital for treatment," they added.The Chief Medical Officer (CMO) at Cooper Hospital Dr Niranjan informed that the injured have been identified as Rakesh Kadu, Laxman Kumvat, Manjit Khan and Mukesh Kumvat."Rakesh and Laxman have suffered 40 per cent burn injuries whereas Manjit and Mukesh suffered 60 percent burn injuries," he added.More details are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fire-breaks-out-at-cylinder-godown-in-mumbai-s-versova-4-injured-101612940884749.html
10-02-2021||Patna||Bihar budget: Builders seek lower registration rate, amnesty for illegal flats||Ahead of the Bihar budget, builders and real estate players have demanded a reduction in registration charges on property sale deeds, increase in urbanisation and region-wise building bylaws to give fillip to construction activity in small towns in the state.In a presentation before deputy chief minister Tarkishore Prasad recently, builders and members of state CREDAI (Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Association of India) put forth a slew of demands to seek incentives from the state government.“Our main demand from the government is that registration cost of sale deeds of properties, especially apartments, should be lowered in urban areas as the rates are very high. Those purchasing flats have to pay 10% in registration cost and another 5% in GST, which amounts to 15% for legalising the documents and possession. In other states including Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh, the registration cost is much lower, hovering around 3 -5%. Registration rate reduction will only add to the volume of registration,” said Manikant, state president, CREDAI.Several builders seemed to back the argument that a reduction in registration charges will encourage more registrations and reduce litigation. “It’s in the interest of the state government to reduce registration charges so that more properties get legalised and litigations are reduced. Registration should not be seen as a medium of revenue alone,” said another builder, not wishing to be quoted.In this fiscal year, the state registration department has earned ₹3,000 crore till January end as against the target of ₹4,500 crore. The shortfall is attributed to Covid, impact including economic contraction and an overall slump in the real estate sector.The builders lobby is also demanding greater urbanisation in Bihar with region-wise building by-laws tailored to suit construction activity in cities like Muzaffarpur, Darbhanga, Purnia and Bhagalpur apart from other small towns.They argue that existing building by-laws have strict specifications for construction like wide roads, drainage, sewerage among others which constraints projects in smaller cities.“There should be region-wise building by-laws tailored to the infrastructure available in smaller cities so that parameters and specifications are less strict. This will help builders to take more projects in smaller cities and lead to higher urbanisation,” Manikant added.Also Read:Bihar juvenile board tells minor to plant 20 trees in school as punishmentThe builders association has also sought an amnesty scheme for apartments facing action for violation of building by-laws. “There are a large number of apartments categorised as illegal because the builders violated by-laws in. But these buildings are already occupied and no water connection or roads is making them suffer. These constructions could be legalised through an amnesty scheme,” said Narendra Kumar, another builder who was in the meeting.“We are hopeful that some incentives for builders will come in the state budget,” said Kumar.The budget session of the state legislature will start from February 19 and the budget will be presented on February 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-budget-builders-seek-lower-registration-rate-amnesty-for-illegal-flats-101612938784441.html
10-02-2021||Chandigarh||Moga Congress candidate’s husband mows down two Akali activists, held||In a brazen act of poll violence, the husband of a Congress candidate of the Moga municipal corporation ran over and killed two Akali workers with his sports utility vehicle on Tuesday night, police said on Wednesday. Moga deputy superintendent of police (City) Barjinder Singh said that Narinderpal Singh Sidhu, the husband of Moga ward number 9 candidate Paramjeet Kaur, ran over his Mitsubishi Pajero SUV on the two Shiromani Akali Dal workers, killing Harminder Singh on the spot, while Jagdeep Singh succumbed to injuries at Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMC), Ludhiana, on Wednesday morning. Harminder belonged to Moga town and Jagdeep was a resident of Tarewala village in the district. Sidhu was arrested along with two Congress supporters, Jasmail Singh and Pamma. A search is on for Sidhu’s son Jaslovepreet Singh and five other Congress workers. All nine Congress activists have been booked under Section 302 (murder) and Section 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC at the city police station. Departmental inquiry against police personnel at spotAccording to police sources, the incident took place in the presence of the police at 9.15 pm on Tuesday. Two police control room (PCR) personnel and the in-charge of the Focal Point police post were present at the crime spot.When contacted, Moga senior superintendent of police Harmanbir Singh said, “A departmental inquiry has been initiated against the police personnel present at the spot. If any negligence is found, strict action will be taken against them.”Argument led to scuffle before murder Ward number 9 in Moga is reserved for women. Sidhu’s wife Paramjeet Kaur of the Congress is pitted against Kulwinder Kaur of the Shiromani Akali Dal. Gurbhej Singh Kular, the husband of the SAD candidate, was campaigning for her with his supporters when both sides had a confrontation on Tuesday night. DSP Barjinder Singh said, “Both sides had an argument that led to a scuffle. In a fit of anger, Sidhu ran over his SUV on the two Akali workers. Besides impounding the Pajero, a Mahindra Bolero SUV was also confiscated from the spot. The other accused will be arrested soon.” We condemn the incident: Congress MLA Makhan Singh Brar, the area in-charge of the SAD, said, “After campaigning, Kulwinder, her husband and supporters were standing on the street when Sidhu, the husband of the Congress candidate, started abusing our workers. Our workers exercised restraint and didn’t reply but Sidhu and his supporters brought about 10 vehicles and ran over two of our workers.” Moga Congress MLA Harjot Kamal Singh said, “The party has nothing to do with this incident. It is the result of personal enmity. We do not support any violence and condemn this incident.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/moga-congress-candidate-s-husband-mows-down-two-akali-activists-held-101612938481872.html
10-02-2021||West||At Bengal rally, JP Nadda says ‘development possible only when Mamata leaves’||Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP’s) national president JP Nadda on Wednesday said that ‘kamal’ was the way ahead in West Bengal, which is slated to hold assembly elections later this year, reported news agency ANI.Promising development in the poll-bound state, Nadda said “development will be possible only when Mamata Ji leaves and lotus blooms.” He was addressing the party’s 'Cha Chakra' program at Hariatara village ground in Kharagpur.Taking a swipe at chief minister Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress government, the BJP chief said that those who won the elections in the name of 'Ma, Mati, Manush', are now engaged in "dictatorship, appeasement and strongarm tactics".The remark came a day after Banerjee had urged the people to show the door to BJP, saying, "Bidai dao, bidai dao, BJP ke bidai dao... They have turned India into a crematorium. They want to turn Bengal into the same. We will not allow this. In the coming days, 'Maa, Mati, Manush' will emerge victoriously."Nadda drew a contrast between PM Narendra Modi’s plan for the state and Banerjee’s governance alleging, "On one side there is Narendra Modi who wants the advancement of Bengal and on the other is Mamata Banerjee who is trying to stop all development projects."He said that ₹25,000 crore has been allocated for road construction and upgradation in Bengal in the Union Budget presented by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman earlier this month. "We will ensure all-round development of West Bengal," Nadda said.On Tuesday, Nadda accused the TMC government of threatening Bengal's culture. "Under Mamata Banerjee's rule, the rich culture and heritage of West Bengal are under threat. Only the BJP can protect these. The insider-outsider culture is not the real culture of Bengal,” he alleged adding, that the TMC was pitting people against one another by branding them as outsiders, and termed it “shameful.”With the assembly elections nearing, the BJP has launched three rathyatras since February 6. The roadshows will cover the 294 assembly constituencies in the state, of which the BJP targets to win at least 200 in the polls due in April-May.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/elections/west-bengal-assembly-election/at-bengal-rally-jp-nadda-says-development-possible-only-when-mamata-leaves-101612936950136.html
10-02-2021||Patna||Bihar juvenile board tells minor to plant 20 trees in school as punishment||The Gopalganj Juvenile Justice Board (JJB) has awarded an innovative punishment to a minor found in possession of liquor, banned in Bihar.Principal magistrate Rakesh Mani Tiwari and JJB members have tasked a youth with planting 20 trees in a government school and its care for two months as punishment. The JJB also instructed Gopalganj DFO to provide trees to the boy and directed his school headmaster to submit a compliance report on the boy after 20 days.The minor was caught by Uchkagaon police on the charges of carrying liquor and was sent to a remand home. JJB found him guilty and awarded punishment.“As the boy is too young, the board decided not to send him to a reform home, as it could affect his studies and he could feel isolated. However, spreading awareness will bring him closer to the society and make him more responsible. It will give him an opportunity to reform himself, which is the ultimate goal of law,” the magistrate noted.Also Read: BJP now backward oriented, says MLA overlooked for ministerial post in BiharThe juvenile board said that a harsh punishment was not always the best way to reform a person, especially when one is of tender age. He will also tell the people to plant trees and create awareness about the need for greenery, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-juvenile-board-tells-minor-to-plant-20-trees-in-school-as-punishment-101612932193639.html
10-02-2021||Kolkata||Six from Bengal, including 2 brothers, missing after Uttarakhand glacier burst||At least six persons from West Bengal who worked in Uttarakhand remain untraceable three days after a glacier burst in the Himalayan state. All six, from three districts in the state, had gone to work at the Tapovan Hydro-Electric Power Dam which has been washed away. While 31 bodies have been recovered, 175 persons are yet to be traced. On Sunday morning, Dhrubagopal Jana had spoken to his sons Lalu and Bulu before they went to work. Someone from the project site called up the family to inform them of the disaster later in the day. “Since then there hS been no news. We don’t know anything. The administration is telling us that they are in touch with the Uttarakhand government. Beyond this we don’t know anything,” Jana, a resident of Mahishadal in East Midnapore, told mediapersons, at least 48 hours after the disaster. Also Read | Wadia institute scientists visit Chamoli disaster site, explain what caused itAt least three persons from the district, Lalu Jana, Bulu Jana and Sudip Guriya have gone missing after the disaster. Guriya had last spoken to his brother Pradip on Saturday night. “He was supposed to come back home on February 12. But we don’t have any news as of now,” said Pradip Guriya. At least two persons from Purulia’s Arsa have also gone missing. They have been identified as Subhankar Tantubai and Ashwini Tantubai. “The last time I had a word with my brother was on Sunday morning. Thereafter he went to work. But since then there has been no news. Even the contractor through whom he went to work could not tell us anything,” said Ashiwini Tantubai’s brother Sahadeb, adding that Ashwini’s wife was anxiously waiting for his return. The couple has a one-year-old child. On Wednesday, some family members of both Subhankhar Tantubai and Ashwini Tantubai will leave for Uttarakhand. A yajna was held in the local village temple for their safe return. A local leader of the ruling Trinamool Congress also rushed to their house on Tuesday. “We are regularly keeping in touch with the authorities. The family will be informed as soon as we come to know anything,” said a senior police officer of the district. One person from Malda district Anesh Sheikh was reported missing after the disaster. His two brothers who work in Himachal Pradesh have already rushed to Uttarakhand. He has two teenage children.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/six-from-bengal-including-2-brothers-missing-after-uttarakhand-glacier-burst-101612932181794.html
10-02-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Mangrove cell removes 450 illegal establishments on salt pan lands||The state mangrove cell on Tuesday removed around 450 illegal establishments in the mangrove area on salt pan lands in Nagwadi near Chheda Nagar in Chembur. The mangrove cell has cleared up and restored around 1.5 hectare (ha) of mangroves in the area. The removal of establishments on the salt pan lands was a consequence of a complaint received by the state mangrove cell from the salt commission.Neenu Somaraj, deputy conservator of forest (mangrove cell), said that joint action against illegal establishments was taken along with the salt department, police and local administrators. “The action was prompted by a complaint from the salt commission about encroachment on salt pan lands,” said Somaraj. The mangroves have been restored. Also Read | Mumbai: Mangrove cell to act against debris dumping in Mahul following complaintsIn 2005, in an interim order, the Bombay high court had said that all mangrove areas on government land were to be handed over to the state forest department. The high government reiterated its order on September 18, 2018. However, while district bodies are yet to hand over the 1,592.8 hectare area (ha), state agencies such as JNPT have failed to transfer approximately 1,147ha to the forest department under their jurisdiction.In December last year, Vanashakti—a non-government organisation—had issued contempt notices to all Konkan district collectors, the Konkan divisional commissioner, and state agency Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust (JNPT) for failing to hand over mangrove land under their jurisdiction to the Maharashtra forest department. In January this year, Vanashakti filed a petition in the Bombay high court seeking immediate transfer of all mangrove lands to the forest department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-mangrove-cell-removes-450-illegal-establishments-on-salt-pan-lands-101612931941280.html
10-02-2021||Other||RSS functionary shot at in Rajasthan’s Ramganjmandi||A Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) functionary was shot at late on Tuesday in Rajasthan’s Ramganjmandi when he was raising funds for the Ram temple construction in Ayodhya, police said and added they have arrested two accused in the case.Police said three men on a bike fired on Deepak Shah, 48, and he received bullet injuries in his legs. Shah was rushed to a hospital in Kota, where he was said to be out of danger.Also Read | Maharashtra Congress raises questions over fundraising for Ram templePolice superintendent (Kota rural) Sharad Chaudhary said Shah and Maqsood Paya, a history-sheeter, had an altercation over a petty dispute 10 days ago. He added on Shah’s complaint Paya was arrested. Chaudhary said the incident is unrelated to the fund-raising.Chaudhary said they have arrested Bhavik Chawda and Sufiyan while Ashu Paya, a third suspect, remained on the run. He added additional police forces have been rushed to Ramganjmandi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rss-functionary-shot-at-in-rajasthan-s-ramganjmandi-101612930861097.html
10-02-2021||Delhi||Farmers’ protest: Key Delhi borders remain closed, traffic diverted||Delhi’s borders with the neighbouring states of Haryana and Uttar Pradesh remained closed on Wednesday due to the ongoing farmers’ agitation. Farmers have been camping at the Singhu, Ghazipur, and Tikri borders, affecting vehicular movement between Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, and Haryana.The Noida to Delhi carriageway has been closed since the protesters began their demonstration there. The Delhi to Noida carriageway is open.Also Read | FIR registered to trace man who went missing from tractor rally, police tell HCFor those coming to Delhi from Uttar Pradesh, the Ghazipur border has been closed. The traffic police advised commuters to take routes passing through DND, Karkari Mod, and Shahadra to travel to Ghaziabad.The entry and exit points between Delhi and Haryana, passing through Singhu, Tikri, Auchandi, Piau Maniyari and Saboli and Mangesh, remain closed. The traffic police have advised commuters to take alternate routes via Lampur Safiabad, Palla and Singhu school toll tax borders. Traffic has been diverted from Mukarba and GTK road. It has been suggested commuters avoid Outer Ring Road, GTK Road and NH-44.The other border routes such as the Delhi-Gurgaon and Delhi-Faridabad stretches can be used for travelling between the two states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/farmers-protest-key-delhi-borders-remain-closed-traffic-diverted-101612925640857.html
10-02-2021||Delhi||Delhi AQI deteriorates further, remains in very poor category||Delhi’s air quality continued to remain in the very poor category on Wednesday, with the hourly average air quality index at 7am recording 316.Central Pollution Control Board recordings show that on Tuesday, the overall air quality index of the city was 305, categorised as very poor on the AQI scale. On Monday, the average overall AQI was 303, also in the very poor zone. Also Read | Over 30% deaths in ’18 caused by fossil fuels: StudyUnion ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar), forecast said that surface winds were low and was blowing from the south-westerly direction on Tuesday. There is a forecast of the wind speeds to decrease in the coming days. “AQI is likely to marginally deteriorate but within the very poor category for the next two days. It is expected to deteriorate to the higher end of very poor category by February 12,” the Safar forecast read. India Meteorological Department has forecast that the minimum temperature will be around 7-8 degrees Celsius. There is also a forecast of moderate to dense fog till Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-aqi-deteriorates-further-remains-in-very-poor-category-101612924920689.html
10-02-2021||Delhi||Govt defends 30-day notice period for interfaith unions||The Centre on Tuesday defended the 30-day notice mandated for interfaith couples under the 1954 Special Marriage Act (SMA), arguing before the Delhi high court that the waiting period was fair and reasonable.The submission was part of an affidavit by the Union ministry of law and justice before a bench of chief justice D N Patel and justice Jyoti Singh in response to an interfaith couple’s plea.The couple contended that the 30-day period – meant to invite objections to the match – violated their right to privacy and impinged on their fundamental rights by discouraging them to get married. The plea also sought registration of their marriage with immediate effect.But the Centre disagreed, saying the intention behind the provision was to adequately safeguard the interest of parties involved.It said if any person raised an objection to an interfaith marriage within 30 days, the marriage officer shall not solemnise the marriage until he inquired into the objection.“It may not be possible to verify the credibility of such a person if at least 30 days period is not given as mentioned in section 7 of the Act,” the ministry said.The ministry also countered the petitioner’s submission on violation of right to privacy. “Though right of privacy is now a part of fundamental rights but it is not an absolute right,” the affidavit read. The matter will now be heard after two weeks.The central government’s response came days after the Allahabad high court, in a separate case, ruled that public display of notices to invite objections to an interfaith marriage violated the rights to liberty and privacy.The Centre was silent on the Allahabad high court’s January ruling and instead cited a 2007 Kerala high court verdict to justify its stand. The Kerala HC had said the 30-day period was a matter of substance and a mandatory clause.The SMA, which allows solemnisation of marriages without religious customs or rituals by way of registration, regulates interfaith marriages in India.The 30-day notice period is a particularly controversial provision because activists say it puts hurdles in interfaith relationships and encourages vigilantes to scuttle such unions.In many states, notices with names, addresses and other details are displayed at marriage offices and sometimes even sent to the houses of the applicants 30 days prior to the scheduled date.The development comes amid a nationwide debate on interfaith relationships, and love jihad, a term used by right-wing groups to describe unions between Muslim men and Hindu women.Two states, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh, have already instituted strict anti-conversion laws that ban religious conversions by force, allurement or marriage – a provision that can be misused to target interfaith couples.The plea before the Delhi high court sought a specific direction to the Centre and Delhi government to decide the objections, under the act, on the basis of undertaking and certificates issued by any government hospital or any other authority. The plea also sought doing away with the 30-day notice period requirement and registration of the marriage of the petitioners.But the Centre denied that the provisions violated any constitutional rights. “The conditions relating to solemnisation of special marriage mentioned under the Act is in consonance with the intention behind the Act,” it contended.In its January 13 verdict, the Lucknow bench of the Allahabad high court held that the public display of notices to invite objections to an interfaith marriage was no longer mandatory. It gave the choice to the couple to decide whether they wanted such noticed to be displayed.The SMA mandates an elaborate process to register a marriage. First, one of the parties has to give a notice to the marriage officer of the district where at least one of the parties has resided for at least 30 days.This notice, which includes details such as names, date of birth, age, occupation, parents’ name, address, and phone number, is then entered in the marriage notice book and the officer puts it up in the office.Anybody can then raise objections on various grounds. If no objection is raised within 30 days, then the marriage can be solemnised. If objections are raised, then the officer has to inquire into the objections, and can then decide whether to solemnise the union.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/govt-defends-30-day-notice-period-for-interfaith-unions-101612907360001.html
10-02-2021||Delhi||Rajya Sabha passes Bill to regularise unauthorised colonies in Delhi||The Rajya Sabha on Tuesday passed the National Capital Territory of Delhi Laws (Special Provisions) Second (Amendment) Bill, 2021 to regularise unauthorised colonies in Delhi which is expected to benefit 1.35 crore people.The bill replaces the National Capital Territory of Delhi Laws (Special Provisions) Second (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020 which was promulgated by President Ram Nath Kovind on December 30, 2020.Minister of state (Independent Charge) of housing and urban affairs Hardeep Singh Puri said Delhi’s population has increased from 8 lakh in 1947 to 1.6 crore in 2011. “Exponential growth has led to serious stretch on resources leading to vast gaps in demand and supply.” However, the government has followed a three-pronged approach to address the urbanisation needs of Delhi through three schemes.“A total of 1.35 crore of its (Delhi) citizens will benefit from three schemes, namely, the Pradhan Mantri Unauthorised Colonies in Delhi Awas Adhikar Yojana which is expected to benefit 50 lakh people; the ‘Jahan Jhuggi, Wahan Makaan’ under the PMAY (Urban) is expected to benefit about 10 lakh people; and, under the land pooling, 75 lakh people are expected to be benefitted, which are under various stages of implementation.”The minister said the PM-UDAY was implemented towards the end of 2019 and in spite of the fact that nearly one year was lost on account of the pandemic, 3.82 lakh registrations have been done and authorisation slips, conveyance deeds, have been issued to 4,035 households.“The DDA has also finalised the control norms which are expected to trigger re-development in these 188 colonies. Under the in situ rehabilitation of JJ clusters, out of total of 675 JJ clusters in Delhi, 376 are with DDA; 7,500 EWS houses for three JJ clusters in Kalkaji Extension, Jailorwala Bagh and Kathputli Colony, Shadipur are under construction and some of these are at a very advanced stage of completion,” he said.The ordinance amended the National Capital Territory of Delhi Laws (Special Provisions) Second Act, 2011 that was valid till December 31, 2020 and extended the deadline till December 31, 2023. The 2011 Act provided for the regularisation of the unauthorised colonies that existed in the national capital as on March 31, 2002 and where construction took place till June 1, 2014.The ordinance also amended the 2011 Act to provide that the unauthorised colonies will be identified for regularisation in accordance with the National Capital Territory of Delhi (Recognition of Property Rights of Residents in Unauthorised Colonies) Act, 2019 and the National Capital Territory of Delhi (Recognition of Property Rights of Residents in Unauthorised Colonies) Regulations, 2019. This meant that unauthorised colonies that existed as on June 1, 2014 and had witnessed 50% development as on January 1, 2015 will be considered eligible for regularisation.The minister also said that under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojna 1.11 crore homes have been sanctioned; and the remaining will be sanctioned within the next few days. “And, I give an assurance to this House that well before 2022, all the 1.12 crore homes will not only be sanctioned, but a bulk of them would have already been received by the beneficiaries,” he said.Responding to questions by the members why the government took the ordinance route earlier, the minister explained, “If the winter session of Parliament had been convened, there would have been no need for this ordinance. But it could not be convened for reasons which are entirely beyond the control, certainly, of my ministry. We did not want a situation to arise in the intervening period. For instance, if we had not brought the ordinance and had waited for this session to take place, there are a number of authorities at different levels in the governing structure of Delhi which could have started sealing properties and started a large number of other actions which would have caused inconvenience to the citizens of Delhi.”In 2019, the Union Cabinet had cleared the plan to give ownership rights to 40 lakh people living in over 1,700 unauthorised colonies in national capital Delhi. The government said the landmark initiative would address major problems being faced by the residents of unauthorised colonies such as lack of ownership and transfer rights, provision of basic infrastructure and civic amenities. The government said the decision, once implemented would provide people with a legitimate claim to the property, encourage property holders to invest in safe structures and improve the living conditions in these colonies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/rajya-sabha-passes-bill-to-regularise-unauthorised-colonies-in-delhi-101612906471467.html
10-02-2021||Delhi||No Covid death in Delhi first time since May 11||No fresh Covid-19 death was recorded in the national capital on Tuesday for the first time since May 11, a landmark in Delhi’s tumultuous pandemic fight that has experienced three waves of infections – the latest one in November being the deadliest – as hopes of defeating the public health crisis are emboldened with a roll-out of vaccines.So far, 10,882 people have died of Covid in the city since the death of a 69-year-old woman from Janakpuri was reported on March 13. According to government data, the highest number of Covid-19 cases in a day (8,593) was recorded on November 11, and on November 18, the city recorded the highest number of single-day deaths (131).The numbers have been improving since then.Hundred new cases in Tuesday’s bulletin, reported from 56,410 tests conducted the previous day, took the case tally to 636,260, but active cases were down to 1,052. The day’s positivity rate (confirmed infections among tests conducted) dipped to 0.18%. It was 15.33% recorded on November 15 – the highest since June 27 (15.37%) – and has been on a decline since then.The most striking statistic, however, was zero deaths.“Good news for Delhi residents, there have been no deaths due to Covid-19 today. Congratulations to Delhi residents, the number of Covid-19 cases have gone down, vaccination drive is going on at full speed. Delhiites have fought a difficult war against corona but we still have to maintain all precautions,”chief minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted.“Today, no death has been reported due to Covid infections. Delhi’s collective will is gradually winning over the infection. I congratulate the people of Delhi for taking proper precautions and our health care and frontline workers who have fought this battle tooth and nail,” said Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain.New deaths usually reflect infections that took place three-four weeks ago.Delhi, which was one of the earliest hot spots in India’s Covid-19 outbreak, is the only region in the country that has reported three distinct waves of infections. The first started in mid-June last year, and peaked when the seven-day average of daily cases touched around 3,400 in the last week of June. This receded by the end of July when it dropped to around 1,000 daily cases. The second wave started at the end of August, rising until mid-September, when average daily cases touched 4,174 for the week ending September 17. This again dropped to 2,574 in the week ending October 9, before the onset of the third wave. The third wave raged through October and November.Delhi recorded 96 Covid-19 cases on January 27, the lowest in over nine months, and the first time the daily count stood below the 100 mark. On Friday and Sunday, two deaths were reported in the national capital, same as on February 2.In the past nine months, Delhi has gone through three peaks of daily Covid-19 deaths. It recorded 129 deaths on June 12. This came 90 days after the city recorded its first death in March. The second peak in daily deaths came on September 29 (109 days after June 12) and October 10 (120 days after June 12), when Delhi recorded 48 deaths. The third peak of 131 deaths came just 39 days after October 10.The first peak of the seven-day average of deaths came on June 16, when the number was 84. The second peak was on October 2 (42 deaths) and the third on November 24 (116 deaths).Speaking at the Hindustan Times Leadership Summit in November last year, Kejriwal said that even after a peak of 8,593 daily cases, the Capital’s health care infrastructure did not collapse under the surge of infections, something that was noticed in several metropolises across the world, including New York City.He said the fundamentals of the “Delhi model” that his government devised to fight the pandemic — testing, home isolation, public data, hospital beds, and plasma therapy — remained strong, and the situation did not go out of control because of the robustness of this strategy.“The number of cases of Covid-19 has declined considerably and so have the deaths. This is because of a number of reasons – many have already been exposed to the infection and several others have now been inoculated. Also, fewer patients with the disease have been brought in from neighbouring states in the last few months... However, a few deaths will continue to happen in those who are immunocompromised, have other severe conditions, and in general are not in good health,” said Dr BK Tripathi, professor of medicine at Safdarjung Hospital.More than 12,700 people received coronavirus vaccine shots in Delhi on Tuesday in the fourth week of the inoculation drive, the highest single-day turnout by numbers till date, officials said. The turnout was over 70%, a marked improvement from the figures a day before — 9,740 (54% turnout).At the Delhi government-run Lok Nayak Hospital, which has been the largest Covid-19 hospital in the city, no deaths due to the infection were reported for three days in a week. “Our doctors are overjoyed. They have seen the worst and now it is great that the situation has improved so much that no deaths were reported in the hospital for three out of the last seven days. And, today, no deaths were reported in the entire city,” a senior doctor from the hospital said on condition of anonymity.The development came on a day the Centre said seven states and Union Territories reported no new Covid-19 deaths in the last three weeks, while 15 did not register any fatality in the past 24 hours.Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Arunachal Pradesh, Tripura, Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Mizoram, Nagaland and Lakshadweep have reported no new Covid-19 deaths in last three weeks, Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said. Addressing a press briefing, he said India was the fastest country to reach 6 million vaccination doses of Covid-19 in 24 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/no-covid-death-in-delhi-first-time-since-may-11-101612905894386.html
10-02-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Windows to Madame Bovary||It’s midnight. Her fourth-floor house is quiet. Her daughter, husband and ma-in-law are sleeping. She settles down on the durrie by the window, lights a diya, pours herself a glass of red wine, and opens her much-scrawled copy of Madame Bovary. Sugandha Sehgal, 36, teaches this novel to grad students. An assistant professor in Delhi University’s Jesus and Mary College, she has taken leave from work to finish her doctoral thesis on “bodies out of context: politics and aesthetics of social media feminism.” Late last month, she shifted from her longtime house in Delhi’s Dwarka to Gurugram, in Sector 62, Golf Course Extension. Trying to strike a friendship with the new home, she tells us on a WhatsApp video chat how she is experiencing its windows and balconies at different times of the day and night.11.30 pm: “I have been teaching Madame Bovary to university students for years. A line in it—“The window, in the provinces, replaces theatres and promenading”—rings very true for me as I sit for hours by the window, gazing at the changing spectacles of everyday life. After putting my baby to bed, on weekends after the wine, I like standing in the balcony, and looking at the moon. In fact, the moon is visible from every part of this house, which is more like a glass-house with its too many windows. I remember stepping into my bedroom a couple of nights back, when the curtains were open and the moonlight was streaming straight into the room.”2.00 pm: “From the study’s window, I see the Millennium City’s underbelly, with an army of laborers building a residential luxury tower brick by brick. Seeing them, I see pure physical labor, making me wonder what it would mean to build palatial houses for others to live in.”9 am: “Every morning, my daughter’s first request on waking up is ‘Mumma, can I see the red slide?’. I then show it to her in the playground outside from our bedroom balcony, and each time she is thrilled to discover that the slide hasn’t vanished overnight.”5.30 am: “The scenes from all the windows at this hour are about the wind howling, reminding me of Emily Bronte’s Wuthering Heights. I don’t know what this wind tries to say but she has a song of her own that she sings everyday by my windows.”Sunset hour: “I haven’ seen the sun setting in this house so far. Maybe I don’t care for sunsets. I actually prefer looking out of the windows after the sun has set and it is already dark.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-windows-to-madame-bovary-101612901287741.html
10-02-2021||Other||Minimum temperature in Mumbai drops to 17.6 degrees Celsius||The minimum temperature in the city dropped for a second consecutive day on Tuesday bringing a chill in the morning. However, temperatures soared as day progressed with maximum temperature increasing. The Santacruz station of the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD), which is indicative of the city’s temperature, recorded a minimum temperature of 17.6 degrees Celsius, down from 18 degrees on Monday and 22 degrees Celsius on Sunday. The minimum temperature was just 0.1 degree above normal. At Colaba, the minimum temperature dropped to 20.4 degrees Celsius from 21.2 degrees on Monday and 22.2 degrees Celsius on Sunday. The minimum temperature at Colaba was 0.9 degree above normal.Maximum temperatures, meanwhile, soared on Tuesday. Santacruz recorded a maximum temperature of 35.3 degrees Celsius, up from Monday’s 34.5 degrees Celsius and 4.2 degrees above normal. At Colaba the maximum temperature was 34.6 degrees Celsius, up from Monday’s 33.8 degrees Celsius and 4.7 degrees above normal. Officials at IMD said the rise in maximum temperatures could be attributed to the warm easterly winds. “Cold northerly winds reduced the night temperatures on Monday and the minimum temperatures dropped accordingly. However, both minimum and maximum temperatures are set to rise in the next two days,” said an official from IMD. The air quality remained in the same category since Sunday. Mumbai recorded an overall Air Quality Index (AQI) of 156 on Tuesday, marginally improving from Monday’s 173. The AQI was calculated by the System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) as the average of indices recorded at 10 locations in the city and suburbs. SAFAR categorises AQI levels for PM2.5 in the 0-50 range as good; 51-100 as satisfactory; 101-200 as moderate; 201-300 as poor; 301-400 as very poor and above 400 as severe. “The air quality of Mumbai is in the moderate category and predicted to remain in moderate to poor category for the next two days due to continental pollution,” said a short range forecast by SAFAR. Of the 10 locations, Malad had the worst air quality with an AQI of 301, followed by Mazgaon with an AQI of 262.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/minimum-temperature-in-mumbai-drops-to-17-6-degrees-celsius-101612901277939.html
10-02-2021||Other||Desilting to begin soon in Mumbai as ₹152-crore contracts for nullah work cleared||In a bid to ensure that there is no flooding during monsoon, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Tuesday said work to desilt nullahs and rivers will start in the next two weeks. BMC’s standing committee has approved contracts worth over Rs152 crore for purpose. According to the information given by BMC, about 32-km length of nullahs will be cleaned in island city, for which BMC will incur expenses around Rs12.19 crore. In the eastern suburbs, more than 100km of nullahs in eastern suburbs and 140km in western suburbs, which will cost BMC Rs21.03 crore and Rs29.37 crore, respectively. As per the civic body’s schedule, it has to complete 70% of the desilting before the monsoon, another 20% during the monsoon and the remaining 10% after the end of the season. Additionally, BMC also approved the contract for the cleaning work of Mithi River at Rs89.66 crore. Eight percent of the cleaning work will be done before monsoon, while the remaining 20% after that. During rainfall, the runoff flows through the water entrances located along the city’s roads, through the laterals and into the underground drains, which connect to the nullahs in the suburbs before finally draining out into the sea. Meanwhile, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has claimed that the desilting work will kick off in the city in a timely manner only because BMC elections are scheduled early next year. BJP corporator and standing committee member Bhalchandra Shirsat said, “The cleaning is starting on time this year, and it is a good sign. But we should not forget it’s been done on time only this year to ensure there is minimal flooding owing to elections in 2022.” Meanwhile, BMC’s standing committee on Monday approved the appointment of contractors for addressing the problem of flooding at 58 spots, including Gandhi Market (Matunga), JK Mehta Road (Santacruz), Cargo complex (Andheri East), Lokhande Marg (Chembur), Gautam Nagar (Deonar), Chandavarkar lane (Borivli) and Mahesh Nagar (Goregaon). The work, estimated to cost around Rs190 crore, includes widening of storm water drains, river, nullahs etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/desilting-to-begin-soon-in-mumbai-as-152-crore-contracts-for-nullah-work-cleared-101612900918657.html
10-02-2021||Other||Mumbai’s first desalination plant gets BMC panel’s go-ahead||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) plan to set up a desalination plant in the city received an in-principle approval from the civic standing committee on Monday. The move will allow the civic body to make the required decisions to construct the project, subject to further approvals from the committee at each stage, as required. The standing committee approved the formation of a special committee under the chairmanship of the civic commissioner to oversee the project. It also approved the administration’s request to allow IDE Water Technologies to prepare a detailed project report (DPR) for the desalination plant, after the firm submitted an unsolicited proposal to the civic body for this project. “IDE Water Technologies submitted an unsolicited proposal to BMC for this project. As the original proposer of the project, BMC has asked the firm to submit a project report. Following this, competitive bidding will take place via the Swiss challenge method, for construction of the project. A DPR is expected to be completed in eight months, after which it is likely to take 30 months to construct the plant,” a statement issued by BMC on Tuesday read. In the Swiss challenge method, if an interested party submits a project proposal, the government publishes the report, and invites bids for other interested parties, either to come up with better ideas execute the project based on the existing plan. After the standing committee’s permission to appoint a panel under the chairmanship of civic commissioner under the Maharashtra Infrastructure Development Enabling Authority Act 2018, BMC will submit a proposal to the state to form the committee for the project, and a government resolution will be issued by the state for its formation. Mumbai has witnessed 10-20% water supply shortage in the past few years, owing to delay or uneven rainfall. The city receives water from seven lakes located on the outskirts. While the availability of water in these lakes depends on the rainfall in their catchment areas, the city’s water demand has only increased, and will continue to rise in the future. A committee of experts appointed by BMC in 2016 had submitted its report — Towards Equitable and 24x7 Water Supply for Greater Mumbai — in December 2018. The report concluded that by 2041, Mumbai’s demand for water is estimated to go up from the present 3,750 million litres per day (MLD) to 6,424 MLD. To meet the growing demand, BMC decided to construct a desalination plant with a capacity of 200 MLD of water, which can be expanded to 400 MLD per day in the future. The total cost of the project, is estimated to be ₹1600 crore for constructing a plant with a capacity of 200 million litres, and ₹1920 crore to upgrade it to 400 million litres in the future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mumbais-first-desalination-plant-gets-bmc-panel-s-goahead-101612900618714.html
10-02-2021||Other||Gangster Ejaz Lakdawala in Thane AEC custody till Friday||The Thane anti-extortion cell (AEC) on Tuesday took the custody of gangster Ejaz Lakdawala – a former associate of underworld don Dawood Ibrahim – for questioning in Rs2-crore extortion case, registered at a police station in Kalyan in 2019. Lakdawala has been in Taloja jail after he was arrested in January 2020 from Patna airport by Mumbai Police. According to Thane AEC, Lakdawala will remain in police custody till Friday. “An extortion case was registered against him in 2019 at Kalyan’s Bazarpeth police station for trying to extort a dairy businessman of Rs2 crore,” senior police inspector of AEC, R Kothmire, said. Lakdawala was on ‘India’s Most Wanted’ list since 1998 after he escaped from Nashik jail. He is wanted in 27 cases of murder and attempt to murder and in 80 cases of extortion in Mumbai alone. The Mumbai AEC arrested Lakdawala’s brother Aquil in April 2019 and discovered his location. A close confidant of Ibrahim, Lakdawala used to provide logistical support to the D-Company members in Mumbai for extorting money from Bollywood film producers and businessmen. However, after another gangster, Chhota Rajan, split with Ibrahim, Lakdawala chose to work with Rajan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gangster-ejaz-lakdawala-in-thane-aec-custody-till-friday-101612900378507.html
10-02-2021||Other||Avian influenza: 100,000 more birds culled as virus spreads in Maharashtra||The Bhopal-based central laboratory for bird flu testing, ICAR-National Institute of High-Security Animal Diseases (NIHSAD), on Tuesday confirmed avian influenza deaths in 12 more poultry farms in Navapur in Nandurbar district, taking the number of affected poultry farms to 16. On Tuesday, the state culled around 100,000 lakh poultry birds in Navapur, in addition to the 137,305 poultry birds culled till Monday, taking the count to nearly 238,000. The state recorded 1,291 bird deaths on Tuesday, of which 1,266 are poultry birds. The total number of bird deaths caused by avian influenza has risen to 41,504. On Tuesday, NIHSAD confirmed the H5N8 strain was the cause of death in poultry in Navapur, said officials from the state animal husbandry department. “We have received reports of confirmation of bird flu from ICAR-NIHSAD for 12 other poultry farms. Sample reports of four farms were received on Monday and eight on Tuesday that have confirmed avian influenza,” said a senior official requesting anonymity. The official said 100,000 poultry birds were culled in Navapur on Tuesday. Culling is done within a one-kilometre radius of the affected poultry farm and is started only after receiving a confirmation from NIHSAD. “We are trying to complete the culling process as early as possible because the virus is spreading. The district administration has been directed to survey the affected poultry farms to determine the total number of birds to be culled after fresh confirmation reports,” said the official. The number of poultry birds to be culled in Navapur may go up close to half a million, officials said. Navapur is known for raising egg-laying poultry birds for commercial production and has 27 such poultry farms. A first information report has been lodged against the tehsildar for allegedly concealing suspicious poultry deaths under the Prevention and Control of Infectious and Contagious Diseases in Animal Act 2009.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/avian-influenza-100-000-more-birds-culled-as-virus-spreads-in-maharashtra-101612900198638.html
10-02-2021||Other||Supply hit, onion prices rise in Mumbai||The onion supplies to the wholesale agriculture produce market committee (APMC) market in Vashi have reduced by over 40%, leading to rise in prices at both wholesale and retail markets. Wholesale prices that had been hovering around ₹20- ₹25 per kg at APMC market last week shot up to ₹40-42 per kg on Tuesday. The retail prices have soared from ₹30-35 per kg to ₹50-55 per kg. The shortfall in supply is attributed to unseasonal rains last November. Digambar Raut, a wholesale onion trader, said, “There were sudden rains in November last year when the plantation was in progress. The rains affected the new crop production, while the old crop is still being used. The arrivals are hence low now. Around 125 vehicles arrive in the market daily carrying onions. Today only 75 arrived. We are getting stock from Pune and Nashik. The situation is not expected to improve soon.” Vinod Kadam, a retailer in Sector 9, Vashi, said the higher prices are affecting their businesses. “The increase in price has started affecting our business. People who were buying 2-4kg of onions are now purchasing only 1-2kg. The quality of the onions is good and that combined with the shortage is likely to push up prices further,” said Kadam. Anil Sonawane, a farmer from Pune said, “The produce though effected, the present one is of very good quality. There is a shortage but it is not as if people will not get onions. Hopefully, the farmers will get a better deal this time due to hike in prices.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/supply-hit-onion-prices-rise-in-mumbai-101612899958680.html
10-02-2021||Other||Fuel prices rise: Petrol at ₹93.8/l in Mumbai, diesel for ₹84.36||Fuel prices in the city soared to an all-time high on Tuesday, with one litre of petrol being sold at ₹93.83 and diesel is priced at ₹84.36 in the city. The increase in fuel prices has been witnessed after two days. On February 7, the price of one litre of petrol was ₹93.49 and one litre of diesel was ₹83.99. Transporters across the country will meet on February 13 to decide on the action to be taken after the constant increase in fuel prices. “In view of the rising diesel prices, the emergent meeting of Governing Council is being convened on Saturday, where a strong decision might be taken and decide on the course of action.” said Bal Malkit Singh, chairman, All India Motor Transport Congress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fuel-prices-rise-petrol-at-93-8-l-in-mumbai-diesel-for-8436-101612899718597.html
10-02-2021||Mumbai||Kirit Somaiya claims Shiv Sena MLA didn’t pay fine to Thane civic body||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Kirit Somaiya has complained to the Lokayukta against Shiv Sena legislator Pratap Sarnaik alleging illegal constructions in two buildings and non-payment of fine to the civic body for more than eight years. The BJP leader has also alleged that the Thackeray government has been shielding the Shiv Sena legislator. Sarnaik did not respond to repeated calls and messages from HT. His office said he does not want to speak on the matter. Somaiya, in a press conference on Tuesday, said two 13-storey buildings with 113 flats in Thane had violated the FSI norms for which Thane Municipal Corporation in 2012 levied a fine of ₹3.33 crore. The buildings in Vihang Garden complex were constructed by a company owned by Sarnaik in 2007. Somaiya alleged the legislator neither paid the fine for regularisation of construction, nor the interest accrued on it. “In fact, in a recent order by the state government, the interest has been waived and he has been allowed to pay just 10% of the fine amount. The total amount due, including interest, comes to ₹11 crore, against which he has been allowed to pay just ₹25 lakh. This is completely illegal. I have, in my 53-page complaint to Lokayuta, demanded a probe and a case be registered against Sarnaik,” he said. “The owners of the flats have not been able to sell or transfer their flats in the absence of the occupancy certificate. We are fighting to safeguard their interest,” he alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/kirit-somaiya-claims-shiv-sena-mla-didn-t-pay-fine-to-thane-civic-body-101612899358517.html
10-02-2021||Other||2 days after Amit Shah’s Maharashtra visit, 6 BJP councillors join Shiv Sena||Two days after Union home minister Amit Shah visited the Sindhudurg district in Konkan to attend a function organised by party leader Narayan Rane, six BJP councillors from the Rajya Sabha parliamentarian’s backyard joined the Shiv Sena. The councillors from Sindhudurg’s Vaibhavwadi Municipal Council, were considered Rane’s supporters. They were inducted into the Shiv Sena by party chief and state chief minister Uddhav Thackeray in Mumbai on Tuesday. One of Rane’s close aides said the six were unlikely to get a re-nomination in the next civic polls, and hence they joined the Sena, hoping for party tickets. Uday Samant, state higher and technical education minister from Sena, who hails from Konkan region, claimed that the councillors joined the Sena because they wish for Vaibhavwadi’s development. “The corporators realised that only the Shiv Sena can develop the region and hence joined the party,” said Samant. Reacting to the development, Rane’s son and BJP legislator Nitesh released a video in which he called the defection a “Valentine’s Day gift” to the Shiv Sena. “When Ranesaheb [Narayan Rane] called Uddhavji to sign the file related to the setting up of the medical college [which Shah inaugurated on Sunday], he responded positively. As Uddhavji won’t take anything from us, we decided to send our six councillors as Valentine’s Day gift to the party,” said Nitesh. Rane’s staunch supporter Kalidas Kolambkar also suffered a setback, as his close aides Anil and Prescila Kadam joined the Sena. Prescila was the former corporator from Korba-Mithagar area at Antop Hill.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/2-days-after-amit-shah-s-maharashtra-visit-6-bjp-councillors-join-shiv-sena-101612899058553.html
10-02-2021||Other||Why did Fadnavis take oath secretly: Shiv Sena hits back at Amit Shah||The Shiv Sena criticised Union home minister Amit Shah over his remarks that there was no talks behind closed doors on sharing the chief minister’s (CM) post with the Uddhav Thackeray-led party. Taunting Shah for his remark that he does everything in broad daylight, an editorial in mouthpiece Saamana stated that even the Sena believed in the same philosophy. “The Shiv Sena openly joined hands with the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and the Congress to form a government. However, we would like to know how come [former Maharashtra CM] Devendra Fadnavis took oath secretly in the morning if the party believed in doing things in broad daylight?” it read. After fighting polls together, the Sena broke ties with BJP in 2019, as the latter refused to share the top post with the its long-term ally. On Sunday, Shah had refuted reports that he had promised to share the post of CM with the Sena for an equal term. “They [Sena] said I had promised them [that both parties would share the post] in a closed-door meeting at Matoshree. I never do anything behind [closed] doors. Everything is done in daylight,” said Shah. He also questioned Thackeray for keeping quiet over the issue while campaigning for the Assembly polls, when it was openly said at different platforms that Fadnavis would occupy the top post. The editorial also read that instead of making misleading claims, Shah should concentrate on the Uttarakhand glacier disaster and farmers’ agitation. The mouthpiece also alleged that all attempts were being made to topple the state government, but they did not succeed. It also took a jibe at Shah for saying BJP would have finished the Sena. The editorial said those who wished the Sena’s end have themselves vanished from the political scene. Meanwhile, BJP asked the Sena to introspect. “The Sena fought the polls in alliance with us and then formed government with the Congress and NCP – the same parties they had attacked. They need to introspect instead of blaming us,” said BJP spokesperson Bhalchandra Shirsat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/why-did-fadnavis-take-oath-secretly-shiv-sena-hits-back-at-amit-shah-101612898760134.html
10-02-2021||Other||DIG accused of assaulting Vij’s brother suspended; court grants him bail||Two days after deputy inspector general (DIG), vigilance, Ambala Range, Ashok Kumar, was booked for allegedly assaulting Kapil Vij, the brother of Haryana home minister and Ambala Cantt MLA Anil Vij, the state government suspended him with immediate effect on Tuesday. In an order issued by the home ministry, additional chief secretary Rajeev Arora said, “...During suspension, his headquarters will be the office of RTC/Bhondsi, Gurugram.”Earlier in the day, the court of additional sessions judge Sundeep Singh granted Kumar an interim bail and asked him to join investigations within three days. The next hearing of the case will take place on February 16. While issuing the bail order, the court, with reference to observations made by the Supreme Court in the cases of “Arnab Manorajan Goswami versus the State of Maharashtra (2020)” and “Romila Thaper versus Union of India (2018)”, and by Justice Krishna Iyer in State of Rajasthan Versus Bal Chand (1977), said that “...when both parties are equally influential and there is no likelihood of petitioner absconding on account of his regular long standing service in the police department…his ‘right to liberty’ deserves to be protected. More so, in a case which neither warrants any recovery nor any custodial interrogation.”On Monday, the court had stayed his arrest for a day, asking the state to file response to the bail application. The FIR in this regard was lodged under Sections 294 (obscene act), 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt) and 506 (intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code at Ambala Cantt police station on Sunday. In his complaint, Kapil Vij had alleged that while he was attending a birthday party at Sirhind Club in Cantt where Kumar was also invited, the officer “under the influence of alcohol and without any provocation” started abusing him and his family, and threatened him of dire consequences. Kapil Vij had further alleged that Kumar had said that as he is DIG vigilance, nobody could harm him. He also accused the cop of making obscene gestures at him while leaving.While appearing for the accused/petitioner in the case, his counsel Satinder Singh Garg argued that there was no assault as alleged, no specific mention of the obscene words/act which were uttered and after the alleged criminal intimidation, no violent act was done by Kumar. Garg also placed four photographs, out of which three purportedly showed that Kumar was not having alcohol and fourth purportedly showed the complainant (Kapil Vij) sitting at a table with a glass of drink in front of him. It was also alleged that the complainant was misusing the position of his brother Anil Vij and had rudely told Kumar to serve him at the party.However, public prosecutor Rajesh Dhull and Vij’s counsel Priya Sharma contended that if granted bail, Kumar would try to influence the witnesses and as an officer on duty, he was armed with a service revolver.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dig-accused-of-assaulting-vij-s-brother-suspended-court-grants-him-bail-101612898699158.html
10-02-2021||Chandigarh||‘Join the Congress social media’ campaign launched in Haryana||Haryana Congress in-charge Vivek Bansal and Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee (HPCC) president Kumari Selja on Tuesday launched the “join Congress social media campaign” under which the party plans to create five lakh social media warriors across the country.According to the HPCC chief, the goal of this campaign is to form a team of 1,000 social media warriors from each Lok Sabha constituency. She said at least 10,000 warriors from all over Haryana will be linked with this campaign. Under this campaign, youth will be made aware of the freedom struggle and glorious history, besides highlighting the anti-people policies of the BJP government, Vivek Bansal, in charge of HPCC affairs said in a news conference. He said the farmers of the country are agitating for their legitimate demands, but instead of listening to them, the BJP government is levelling unreasonable allegations on the farmers, which is not a good message for India’s clean and meaningful democracy.The Haryana in-charge of the Congress said the farmers have been sitting on the borders of Delhi for more than two months for their rights against the black laws, but instead of finding a solution, the government has been adopting all tricks to suppress the movement. HPCC chief Kumari Selja said that on Tuesday, the Congress party launched a campaign ‘join Congress social media’ to raise the voice of the people. Under this campaign, young and talented people with the ideology of the Congress party will get an opportunity to join the Congress social media. “This campaign is to strengthen the voice of the country,” said Selja.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/join-the-congress-social-media-campaign-launched-in-haryana-101612898400396.html
10-02-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana board to hold exams for secondary, senior secondary classes from April 20||The Board of School Education Haryana (BSEH) on Tuesday announced to conduct annual examinations of secondary and senior secondary classes from April 20. While the BSEH has already reduced 30% syllabus of these exams on the lines of CBSE, the question paper will contain 50% multiple choice questions, Dr Jagbir Singh, chairman of the board said in a statement. The duration of the examination has been reduced from three hours to two-and-a-half-hours because of the introduction of 50% MCQs. The examination will conclude on May 31. Dr Singh said due to the pandemic, the board examination has been delayed by about 45 days in order to give maximum time to the students for exam preparation. The results of these examinations will be declared in the first week of July. The BSEH will release the exam date sheet later.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-board-to-hold-exams-for-secondary-senior-secondary-classes-from-april-20-101612898399445.html
10-02-2021||Mumbai||Local trains for all: Maharashtra minister says govt positive about rescheduling timings||Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope on Tuesday said his department has already requested chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to reschedule local train timings to allow the general public to travel during peak hours. He said the government seemed positive about making changes to the timings for the convenience of people.After the Maharashtra government, from February 1, allowed all to travel in suburban trains during non-peak hours, the commuters have been demanding rescheduling of travelling hours. At present, commuters in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) can travel in the following time slots: from the first train service to 7am; between 12pm and 4pm; and from 9pm to the last service of the day. While this has led to a multi-fold rise in commuters on three lines, the commuters have complained about timings being inconvenient. “Our department has already written to the CM, who takes a final call on timings of the trains. We will discuss this issue again in the state cabinet meeting scheduled to be held on Wednesday. The government is positive about rescheduling travel timings,” Tope said.The minister also said the state will think of staggering working hours of its offices. “The staggering of working hours is the need of the hour in the interest of the public. We have already appealed to private organisations to go for staggered working hours. We at the state , too, will try to implement it for public offices. It will be more convenient for people in the MMR,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/local-trains-for-all-maharashtra-minister-says-govt-positive-about-rescheduling-timings-101612898398414.html
10-02-2021||Chandigarh||HC restrains Haryana from proceeding with teachers’ recruitment||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Tuesday restrained Haryana government from proceeding with the recruitment of 2,000 sports and school special assistants, on the basis of the advertisement issued on January 25. The high court bench of justice GS Sandhawalia acted on the plea of Jangir Singh and three others who had contended that the advertisement issued for the recruitment is tailor-made to re-employ retrenched Physical Training Instructors (PTIs). It was argued that the minimum age limit is 18 years and maximum age limit of 57 years. It was further stated that the condition of experience in physical training is totally arbitrary and discriminatory as six marks for every year have been given to those who worked as PTI in the education department of the state and only one mark for every year to those who worked as PTI under private organisations. The PTIs had served for a period of 10 years before their selection was set aside in September 2012 and therefore, in comparison to the private employees or the private organisations, only one mark is to be given for every year, subject to maximum of 10 marks, the court was told. It was further argued that to pacify retrenched employees and in order to gain the votes, the state government took a conscious decision to accommodate and to adjust those retrenched PTIs, the court was told. The high court, taking note of submissions, asked government to not to proceed with the recruitment and respond to the issues raised in the plea by March 18. It was on April 8, 2020 that the apex court had set aside 1983 PTIs’ selection and asked the state to complete process within five months. A single judge bench of Punjab and Haryana high court had in September 2012, set aside the selection of these teachers in 2010 as it found the process vitiated. They were recruited in pursuance to a 2006 advertisement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-restrains-haryana-from-proceeding-with-teachers-recruitment-101612898339558.html
10-02-2021||Other||Coaching classes owners seek Maharashtra govt’s approval to reopen||A delegation of owners of coaching classes met state minister for higher and technical education Uday Samant and submitted a draft of a standard operating procedure (SOP) that they would follow if allowed to reopen. Owners of coaching classes associated with the Maharashtra Class Owners’ Association (MCOA) said they received a positive response from the government. “We are hoping the government allows us to reopen soon. The minister has assured us they are considering the demand positively. We are hoping to get permission to reopen within the next two to three days,” said Santosh Vaskar, president of MCOA. Officials from the department of higher and technical education offered no comment and said the government is yet to make any announcement on this issue. Following a directive from the University Grants Commission, colleges in the state have been permitted to reopen at 50% capacity from February 15. MCOA’s suggested SOP includes mandatory consent forms from parents; compulsory use of masks; allowing only one student per bench; and testing all teachers for Covid-19 before classes reopen. The association it submitted the SOP since the government has not come up with guidelines for coaching classes so far. With more sectors being allowed to reopen by the state, owners of coaching classes in the city have been protesting the government’s delay in allowing them to reopen. Members of MCOA have been meeting state officials and ministers since September, requesting permission to reopen.In December, the Coaching Classes Teachers’ Federation, a state body, wrote to the education department, urging that coaching classes be allowed to resume.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/coaching-classes-owners-seek-maharashtra-govt-s-approval-to-reopen-101612898218376.html
10-02-2021||Mumbai||Covid vaccination in Maharashtra: Registration for third phase likely to begin from March 1||Maharashtra is expecting registration for the third phase of the Covid-19 vaccination drive to begin from March 1 and actual vaccination in due course thereafter. The state government, meanwhile, has directed the administrations of districts with high positivity and mortality rates to take measures to contain them. It has also continued restrictions on the Maghi Ganeshotsav festival, beginning on February 15, by banning processions, religious and cultural programmes and capping the height of idols to 4 feet for public celebrations and 2 feet for domestic ones. The guidelines issued by the home department have also restricted the gathering of revellers in the pandal to 10 people, while only five people have been allowed for immersion of the idol.State health minister Rajesh Tope said the state government has not received any instructions from the ministry of health and family welfare for registering beneficiaries of the vaccination in third phase. He said they expect the registration of comorbid people and citizens above 50 years of age to begin from March 1 and their vaccination in the third phase may begin accordingly.Tope said the state government has been increasing the number of vaccination centres every week and it has reached 652 till Monday. “We have inoculated 468,293 health workers, of the 1,054,000 registered on CoWIN app, and 41,453 frontline workers out of 547,000 registered till Monday. We have enough stock of two vaccines, the centres are well-equipped and the staff is well trained. Although the Centre has not informed us about enrolment for the third phase, we expect it to begin by March 1,” he said.High number of cases, mortality rate in some of districts has become a cause for concern for state authorities as it was pointed out by the central review team, which visited these places over the weekend. Districts such as Nandurbar (10.68%), Satara (9.21%), Amravati (8.91%) have reported a high weekly positivity rate, against the state rate of 4.51%. Similarly, as many as 11 districts have clocked a high case fatality rate (CFR) of more than 3%, when the state’s rate stands at 2.52%. Ratnagiri (13.64%), Bhandara (7.69%) and Gadchiroli (7.32%) reported highest CFR, as per the health department figures as on February 4. In some districts, such as Parbhani (286), Ratnagiri (527) and Nandurbar (921), the weekly testing per million is too low.“The districts with the high CFR have been directed to strictly follow the updated protocol of treatment. Death audit committees have been reactivated and the administrations have been directed to strictly follow the 3T principle (tracking, tracing and testing) to contain the spread of the virus. They have also been told to not lower their guard,” Tope said.According to officials from the health department, the high rate of growth and mortality in these districts is owing to weak public health infrastructure. “These district administrations failed in proper management of ventilators and ICUs and also lagged in tracing and testing of patients. The clinical management cannot be upgraded in a few months when it’s poor for years in these districts. The state government should pay more attention for the upgradation, but at the same time the district administration should go for ample number of tests,” an officer said requesting anonymity.While the state government has announced to relax the curbs on train timings for the general public, experts say the decision over it should be taken in gradual manner. “There is no rise in cases in MMR despite opening up the trains for all in staggered manner, but cases have not fallen like they do in Delhi. We have been recording 300-400 cases in Mumbai daily, while in Delhi they hover around 100. Corporations in MMR have been taking due care by continuing with aggressive testing and strict implementation of the protocol. More relaxations in the timings for rail commuters can be given in calibrated manner after two weeks,” said Dr Avinash Supe, head of the state-appointed deaths audit committee.In another round of vaccination on Tuesday, 23,721 health care workers (HCWs) and frontline workers were inoculated at 515 centres across the state. Of them, 11,378 were frontline workers and 12,343 were HCWs. The total number of beneficiaries has touched 536,197, which include 481,607 HCWs and 54,590 frontline workers.The turnout for the drive dropped to 45.76%, as at least 51,500 beneficiaries were targeted to be vaccinated on Tuesday. The turnout remained low as around 10 districts took a break from the drive. The highest number, 7,735 beneficiaries, were reported in Mumbai, followed by Thane (3,935)and Palghar (1,421).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid-vaccination-in-maharashtra-registration-for-third-phase-likely-to-begin-from-march-1-101612898098322.html
10-02-2021||Chandigarh||Akali Dal releases 25-point manifesto for Mohali MC polls||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Tuesday released its 25–point manifesto for the Mohali municipal corporation elections which are scheduled to be conducted on February 14. Speaking at a private hotel in Phase 9, senior SAD leader and former member of Parliament, Prem Singh Chandumajra, promised to establish underground parking at all parks in the city and make Mohali electricity-pole free. He added that all pending projects will be completed and local area committees will be formed to monitor development activities in the city. The former MP said that some projects which will be completed include the underground gas pipeline project, shelter homes for street dogs and starting of a local bus service. He added that free education will be provided to family members of Mohali residents who lost their lives during the farmers’ protest. Chandumajra said that the SAD government started all projects, but the mayor at the time was under pressure from cabinet minister Balbir Singh Sidhu and could not see to their completion. He also said that there is no question of an alliance with former mayor Kulwant Singh, as he has backstabbed the party. Moreover, our direct contest with Congress and Azad group is nowhere in the picture, he added. Others present on the occasion were Charanjeet Singh Mann, political adviser of SAD president, former councillors Kanwaljit Singh Ruby and Harmanpreet Singh Prince and other local leaders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/akali-dal-releases-25-point-manifesto-for-mohali-mc-polls-101612897318448.html
10-02-2021||Chandigarh||PU gets Punjab government nod to hold senate polls||Punjab government has given permission to Panjab University (PU) to set up polling booths in the state for conducting senate polls.The Punjab government’s department of higher education in a letter to the varsity has stated that they have given approval for setting up polling booths at various colleges in the state. The polling booths of different constituencies of the PU senate are to be set up in Punjab, Haryana, Uttarakhand, Delhi, Himachal Pradesh and Rajasthan. Last month, the varsity had informed the office of the Vice-President of India, who is also the PU chancellor, that the process has been initiated by seeking permission from the six state governments.In a letter to PU, the department of higher education has said that the varsity should strictly comply with the safety norms whenever the polling is held. The senate is a 91-member apex governing body of the university. While 36 senators are nominated by the chancellor, two are from the Punjab legislative assembly, six are ex officio members and the remaining 47 are elected.No response from other states yetPU has not received any response from other five state governments so far for setting up polling booths for elections. After writing to them for permission, the varsity has also sent two reminders to these states. An official of the university confirmed that the response from other states was awaited. The varsity has said that the final election schedule will be proposed after the permission from the respective states.Conduct senate polls immediatelyThe Punjab government in its letter has also directed the varsity to conduct the senate polls immediately as the elections are already delayed. Former senator Navdeep Goyal said, “It is a good development and varsity should announce the dates of senate polls soon as it is already functioning without a governing body.”Polls delayed due to pandemicThe polls were earlier scheduled to be held in August last year, but were postponed twice by vice-chancellor Raj Kumar due to the pandemic. The last senate polls were held in 2016. The four-year term of the previous senate had ended on October 31 last year. The term of the syndicate, PU’s executive body, also ended on December 31. Its members are elected from among the senators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pu-gets-punjab-government-nod-to-hold-senate-polls-101612897258340.html
10-02-2021||Mumbai||More than a lakh travel on Metro on Monday||For the first time since it restarted services, more than a lakh commuters travelled via the Mumbai Metro-1 (Versova-Andheri-Ghatkopar) on Monday. When the services restarted in October, the ridership was around 22,000 commuters weekly, the Mumbai Metro One Pvt Ltd (MMOPL) said on Tuesday. The numbers have picked up after the suburban railway services were started for all on February 1. Before the pandemic hit the city, close to four lakh commuters travelled via the Metro on weekdays. MMOPL, which runs the city’s first Metro, has now increased the number of services from 240 to 256 to cater to the growing number of commuters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/more-than-a-lakh-travel-on-metro-on-monday-101612896123669.html
10-02-2021||Mumbai||Only 87 of 82,884 showed side effects of vaccine in Mumbai||Amid the preparation for the third phase of vaccination for the general public, the data provided by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has revealed that a mere 87 of the 82,884 Covid-19 vaccine beneficiaries as of Monday – only 0.10% in the ongoing phase one and two for healthcare and frontline workers – reported minor side effects or adverse effect following immunization (AEFI). Minor side effects include fever, weakness and bodyache, however, no major side effect has been reported in Mumbai yet, BMC officials said. The civic body has urged everyone to undergo vaccination in the coming days and have also started walk-in vaccination for the ongoing two phases. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, told reporters, “I have taken the vaccine, and would like to inform everyone that the vaccine is completely safe for every citizen. So far, the complaints are only of minor side effects. No major adverse effects have been reported yet.” According to the BMC’s data, topping the vaccinations is Bhabha Hospital, followed by Rajawadi, where more than 22,000 healthcare and frontline workers have been vaccinated. When the vaccination started in the city on January 16, there were nine vaccination centres, however, they have increased to 21, as of Monday. In the coming days, the BMC plans to rope in private hospitals, as in the phase three, it plans to vaccinate three million citizens who have comorbidities or are above the age of 50. The BMC has also shortlisted 13 private hospitals and will add more in the coming days. In total, the BMC has received 100 application from private hospitals. Dr Sachin Jain of Khar’s Hinduja Hospital said, “I took the first dose of the vaccine on January 16, and I was among the first few healthcare workers to be vaccinated. On Saturday, I will take the second dose. I would like to convey to everyone that the vaccine is completely safe to be administered. Many have reported minor symptoms such as fever or weakness post vaccination, but that is after every vaccination. Whenever the vaccine is made available for the general public, I hope everyone takes it. Twenty countries are taking vaccines from us, and hence it has to be safe to administer.” On Tuesday, 6,310 healthcare workers were vaccinated followed by 2,881 frontline workers. One more vaccination centre – Mulund Covid-19 jumbo centre – taking the total to 22 vaccination centres. As of Tuesday, the BMC has vaccinated 89,194 individuals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/only-87-of-82-884-showed-side-effects-of-vaccine-in-mumbai-101612895997549.html
10-02-2021||Delhi||Valentine’s plans: Tripping outside Delhi over weekend||If you thought that Delhi University students are going to spend this Valentine’s by dating virtually, bundled up in their blankets and PJs, you stand corrected! Youngsters have decided to make up for the time lost amid the pandemic by taking their bae to the nearest hill station around the Capital, for a pitch perfect Valentine weekend!Students have spent weeks picking out the most hygienic property around hill stations, even if it means denting their pockets; all this to enjoy a perfect Valentine’s Day amid the pandemic. “The pandemic has been a bummer and I’ve not been able to meet my GF in the longest time. If campus had reopened, I could have proposed to her in college or given her a surprise. But that can’t be done now. I wanted to do something special for her on Valentine’s Day and so planned to take a short trip to Himachal Pradesh. While we can’t exactly go backpacking in Europe this year, a two day trip will be a great break from all the stress due to the upcoming exams and the never ending online classes. Travelling and having great experiences with your friends is what college is all about, and Valentine’s is the perfect opportunity,” says Pranshu Nain, a student of Ramjas College.Some students have tapped into their entrepreneurial abilities, and are coordinating Valentine’s Day trips for their batchmates this year! “A lot of students have reached out to me to help them plan their trip for Valentine’s Day. The famous spots are the hill stations. I help them curate a package that’s budget friendly and also hygienic, with properly sanitised hotels and buses that keep in mind social distancing whole seating passengers. I’m getting around 10 requests for bookings on any average, every day. And 50 plus students have already paid for their trips. But, we aren’t allowing stag entries; it’s either only girls or couples. The activities on the hill station will include bonfire, trekking, dancing — the whole Yeh Jawaani Hai Deewani filmi experience. In fact, we are even going trekking to the same places as that movie,” says a DU student, on condition of anonymity, while busy organising trips for campus couples.But what about #singles then? Are they not planning to celebrate their singlehood by taking an all boys/girls trip? “Of course we will! Me and my friends are planning to go to Rishikesh around that time. We’ll be celebrating our singlehood. I’ve even got hoodies printed with the line - Swag se Single. I doubt if anybody will wear them though,” laughs Hemant Sehrawat, a Master’s student in DU. For more stories follow Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/valentines-plans-tripping-outside-delhi-over-weekend-101612895763144.html
10-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body shortlists 7 more hospitals for Covid-19 vaccination drive||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has shortlisted seven more private hospitals for the third phase of the vaccination programme. In the third phase, the BMC expects to vaccinate 3,000,000 senior citizens above the age of 50 and those with co-morbidities. Last month, the Association of Hospitals (AOH), a trust of private hospitals, approached the BMC, seeking permission to allow them to inoculate general public. Following which, BMC issued a Google form to private hospitals asking them to submit details about their immunisation department. As HT reported earlier, around 100 private hospitals filled up the forms, of which the civic body had shortlisted 13. An addition of seven private hospitals takes the total count to 20. “Our team is auditing the details submitted in the forms every day. So, we will keep adding the numbers if they have mentioned all the details sought in the form,” said Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, BMC.By next week, the BMC plans to begin physical inspection of hospitals to ensure the requisite infrastructure for inoculation is in place. “We are arranging for the teams and shortlisting the names of the hospitals. Once, we are done with it, we will start our inspection which is required before giving the final approval,” said Kakani.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-shortlists-7-more-hospitals-for-covid-19-vaccination-drive-101612895577522.html
10-02-2021||Delhi||In a first, Delhi inoculates over 12,000 people in a single day||For the first time in the national capital, over 12,000 people were vaccinated against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in a single day on Tuesday. A total of 12,717 health-care and front-line workers received the shot across 183 vaccination sites in Delhi.This is an increase of 2,977 beneficiaries over Monday’s 9,740 -- the highest number of people to be inoculated in a single day so far.The uptick in numbers was largely owing to a special drive conducted to vaccinate police personnel -- some of the vaccination sites were exclusively kept aside to cater to them. At one such site at Lok Nayak Hospital, 57 of the 100 people who had been called in, received the shot. “Today, we started vaccinating front-line workers at our hospital. Of the 100 people who were called in, 57 turned up. Currently, we do not allow front-line workers to walk in out of turn,” said one of the senior doctors at the hospital, on condition of anonymity.Health-care workers can walk in at any vaccination site and get the shot even if their names are not on that day’s list of beneficiaries. That benefit hasn’t been allowed to front-line workers yet as the Delhi government started administering the shot to front-line workers only last week.However, Tuesday’s vaccine coverage rate – proportion of people who received the shot among those targeted -- was just 69.1%, which, in comparison to previous vaccination days, is not all that remarkable. There were several days in the past when the city had seen a coverage rate of over 90%.Two districts – north and north-east – saw over 100% coverage, with north-east registering 150%. “That was because of more front-line workers getting the shot. Over the past two days, nearly 80% of those who received the vaccine at out sites were front-line workers. We are coordinating with the heads of departments and they are in turn motivating and following up with their employees. This has resulted in the higher numbers,” said a senior official from the district, not wishing to be named.Others, however, say there is a need to get front-line workers motivated.“The hesitancy among health-care workers has been addressed to some level. Initially, there were fears of adverse reactions but as time went by, more and more people came forward to get the shot. But, now we have hit a wall with the front-line workers-- many are unwilling to get the shot. We will be following a similar strategy to motivate them as well,” said another district official, also on condition of anonymity.To address vaccine hesitancy among health-care workers, the senior faculty members at medical colleges and senior hospital staff had started taking the shot out of turn, in order to motivate their colleagues.On Tuesday, the lowest coverage was in south-west district that saw only 49.5% of the targeted people receiving the vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/in-a-first-delhi-inoculates-over-12-000-people-in-a-single-day-101612893658257.html
10-02-2021||Delhi||FIR registered to trace man who went missing from tractor rally, police tell HC||The city police on Tuesday told the Delhi high court that an FIR has been registered to trace a 27-year-old man who had gone missing while participating in the farmers’ tractor rally on Republic Day.A bench of justices Siddharth Mridul and Anup J Bhambhani was informed by the police that three teams have been constituted to trace the missing man, Bajinder, and assistance is also being sought from the Haryana Police.The court was hearing a habeas corpus plea moved by the brother of the missing farmer, alleging that Bajinder was illegally detained. Petitioner Baljeet, represented by advocates Benipal Naginder and Aditi Pundhir, has claimed that Bajinder had participated in the tractor rally on January 26 and was missing since then.On Tuesday, the bench told the senior superintendent of police, Jhajjar, to render all possible assistance to the Delhi Police to locate the man, advocate Naginder said.The court also asked the police, represented by Delhi government’s standing counsel (criminal) Rahul Mehra and advocate Chaitanya Gosain, to file a status report before the next date of hearing on February 17.The police have also told the court that they have not arrested any such person in connection with the violence on January 26.The tractor parade on January 26, held by farmers to highlight their demands to repeal three new farm laws, had turned violent as police clashed with protesters. A section of farmers had also reached the Red Fort and hoisted a religious flag there.Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, are protesting at various border points of Delhi for over two months now against the three laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/fir-registered-to-trace-man-who-went-missing-from-tractor-rally-police-tell-hc-101612893657398.html
10-02-2021||Delhi||SC stays AAP MP Sanjay Singh’s arrest in casteist slur case||The Supreme Court on Tuesday granted protection from arrest to Member of Parliament (MP) Sanjay Singh of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) who is facing multiple criminal cases in Uttar Pradesh for allegedly calling the Yogi Adityanath government ‘casteist’.A bench of justices Ashok Bhushan and R Subhash Reddy issued notice on Singh’s petition, challenging the action of a trial court in Lucknow which proceeded with the case against him issuing summons without obtaining sanction from the chairman of the Rajya Sabha under Section 196 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC).Senior advocate Vivek Tankha who appeared for the AAP MP said the sanction granted by the Uttar Pradesh governor refers to Section 197 of the CrPC whereas approval ought to have been granted under Section 196 CrPC. Since the petitioner is an MP, permission of the chairman of the Rajya Sabha ought to have been obtained before prosecuting the petitioner, Tankha added.The bench felt that the issue required consideration and sought response of the UP government in two weeks. The case against Singh in which summons were issued was registered on September 1 last year at Hazratganj police station, Lucknow. Singh was accused of spreading enmity and hatred among groups or communities of society, criminal intimidation under various provisions of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) contained in Sections 153A, 153B, 501, 505(2).Till the next date of hearing, scheduled in the third week of March 2021, the bench stayed the arrest of the MP. The order said, “In the meantime, we direct that the petitioner be not arrested in Crime No. 221 of 2020 under Sections 153A, 153B, 501, 505(2), IPC registered at P.S. Hazratganj, Lucknow.”Singh held a press conference last year where he alleged that 63% people surveyed in the state called the government “casteist”. The survey was commissioned by Singh.Following the press conference, multiple FIRs were registered against the AAP MP. The apex court also issued notice on a separate petition moved by Singh on clubbing the multiple FIRs pending against him across the state arising out of the same incident.The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) in a statement said attempts by the UP government to defame their Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Singh have “miserably failed” with the Supreme Court on Tuesday granting protection to him from arrest over the alleged cases of hate speech.“With the order of the Supreme Court, it has become clear that the cases registered against Singh by the Yogi government at 13 different locations were entirely baseless. Taking note of this, the Supreme Court has also questioned the non-clubbing of all the cases filed against Singh together,” the AAP said in a statement.Singh later tweeted saying, “Satyamev Jayate! Hon’ble Supreme Court has issued a notice to the U.P. Government, prohibiting my arrest, I am sure justice will prevail. My respect to @VTankha, he presented my case with sheer honesty and justice.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/scstays-aap-mp-sanjay-singh-s-arrest-in-casteist-slur-case-101612893599692.html
10-02-2021||Delhi||Govt to question Tata Motors over ‘faulty’ mileage of company’s electric car||The Delhi transport department has issued a showcause notice to automobile giant Tata Motors for deficiencies in delivering promised mileage for its electric vehicle model — Tata Nexon.This notice has been issued after the state transport department received complaints on this car variant.“It has been informed that while the model is specified to provide 312 kilometres range on a single charge, the vehicle owned by the said customer has never provided a range of more than 200 kilometres on a single charge. The vehicle owner has further informed that he has duly followed various advice of the dealer but no improvement was noticed, despite best efforts,” read the showcause notice issued by the transport department on February 8.Tata Motors has now been directed to appear before the deputy commissioner transport on February 15. The transport department, according to the notice, is considering de-listing of the model - Tata Nexon EV - from the eligible e-vehicles for the purpose of subsidies given by the government under Delhi’s Electric Vehicle Policy, 2020.Transport minister Kailash Gahlot said under the government’s ongoing “Switch Delhi” campaign the department is also reviewing the efficacy of EVs available in the city’s markets.The complaint was filed by one Rajesh Kumar, a resident of Dalip Vihar, Najafgarh, multiple times, the first of which was on January 25. He said he bought the vehicle on December 3, 2020, and soon after leaving the showroom at Safdarjung Enclave, the car stalled on the way. The dealer suggested that he update the software and the car restarted, he said.“On January 9, 2021, a major accident was avoided after the car got stuck in the middle of the road. My family faced a harrowing time in the car. I spent a huge amount of my hard-earned income to buy this vehicle - Tata Nexon XZ+ - which costs over ₹15 lakh. I thought of the environment when I took this zero-emissions vehicle, but i have only faced hardships ever since,” Kumar said in his complaint.Senior transport department officials said action will be taken in case the allegations are found to be substantiated after the hearing.“The department is likely to constitute a committee of EV experts to verify the claim of range given by this car model and the issues conveyed by this complainant,” said KK Dahiya, special commissioner (transport).A Tata Motors spokesperson said the company is in receipt of the notice and that it is taking all possible measures to address the concern.“The range at single full charge (312 km) for the Nexon EV is basis the certification received from the Automotive Research Association of India (ARAI), which is the official body that independently tests all mass produced vehicles under standard/defined test conditions before they can be offered to customers. As with conventional vehicles (with IC engines), the actual range achieved in EVs is dependent on AC usage, individual driving style and the actual conditions in which the vehicle is driven,” the spokesperson said.“The range achievement is also a function of familiarity with the new technology, and customers report improvements upwards of 10% within 4-6 weeks of familiarity. Since its launch a year ago, the Nexon EV has consistently grown in popularity to become India’s highest-selling electric vehicle with nearly 3000 families enjoying the pleasure of owning and driving it. We receive several positive testimonials from our customers and are encouraged to see them exploring places with Nexon EV and sharing their experiences,” the spokesperson added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/govt-to-question-tata-motors-over-faulty-mileage-of-company-s-electric-car-101612893599124.html
10-02-2021||Delhi||Govt to monitor pollution sources in real time: Delhi CM Kejriwal||To study and control real-time pollution sources in the national capital, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday held a meeting with researchers from IIT-Kanpur, IIT-Delhi and The Energy and Resources Institute (Teri), before announcing that the Delhi government will work with the researcher teams to launch a “real-time source apportionment” project in Delhi.The government will also set up an advanced monitoring system of real-time pollution sources, the chief minister said.Kejriwal on Tuesday tweeted, “IIT Delhi, IIT Kanpur and Teri have developed technology for real-time source apportionment of pollution. Had a meeting with their experts. We will work with them to implement it in Delhi. If we know source of pollution on real-time basis, it will help us take immediate action (sic).”While the technology to carry out real-time source apportionment of pollution already exists in the country, the team of scientists headed by IIT-Kanpur will be effectively implementing this project in the national capital.Mukesh Sharma from IIT-Kanpur, who is heading the project, confirmed that the team made a presentation before the chief minister on Tuesday and the complete implementation of the project might take around five to six months.“The real-time monitoring of pollution sources will help the Delhi government to take immediate action against these sources. The chief minister has directed senior officials to work on the matter and also to submit a proposal before the cabinet. After the cabinet clears it, work will start in full swing,” the Delhi government said in a statement.The statement added, “This technology will also clarify the factors responsible for the spike in air pollution at a particular spot. It will also help to study the real-time effect of vehicles, dust, and smoke from factories. Based on the results obtained, the Delhi government will be able to take the necessary action to curb sources of pollution.”A senior official of the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) said the team of scientists, headed by professor Mukesh Sharma, civil engineering department, IIT-Kanpur, has given a presentation on the technology.“The project is still in its initial stage. We have suggested a few recommendations to the team and we are hoping that in a few months, we will be able to implement the project in Delhi,” the official said, wishing not to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/kejriwal-meets-with-experts-says-will-launch-project-to-identify-real-time-pollution-sources-101612893598572.html
10-02-2021||Delhi||Vaccine wastage at 4.1% for Covidshield, 17.5% for Covaxin in Delhi||In its ongoing vaccination drive against Covid-19, Delhi has recorded a wastage rate of 4.1% for the Covishield vaccine and 17.5% for Covaxin, said a senior Delhi government official, citing a report prepared by the health department on Tuesday.“For Covishield, Delhi’s wastage rate is 4.1%. That means, for every 1,000 doses administered to beneficiaries, 41 doses went waste. For Covaxin, the wastage rate is 17.5%. However, these rates are lower than the national average at this stage – it is 6.3% for Covishield and 25.8% for Covaxin,” the official said.While Covishield is the Indian variation of the Oxford/AstraZeneca vaccine, and is manufactured by the Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII), Covaxin was developed by Bharat Biotech, an Indian firm.Delhi was supplied around 264,000 doses of Covishield and 20,000 doses of Covaxin in the first batch, with which the vaccination drive was rolled out on January 16. Currently, the vaccination drive is open to health workers and front-line workers and Delhi has so far vaccinated 131,935 beneficiaries, government records showed.“The central government has set a permissible limit of 10% of dose wastage, irrespective of which vaccine. Earlier this month, the central government had asked states and Union territories to assess the vaccine wastage,” said the official quoted above.For higher wastage of Covaxin, government officials cited two reasons – higher number of doses per vial, creating difficulties in management as all doses have to be administered within four hours of a vial being opened; and relatively low turnout at centres administering Covaxin.A second senior health department official, on condition of anonymity, said, “Across states, wastage rate is higher for Covaxin because each vial of this vaccine has 20 doses, unlike Covishield vials that have 10 doses each. Once a vial is opened, all doses have to be administered within four hours. So clearly, wastage management is difficult for the centres administering Covaxin.”Of the 184 vaccination centres in Delhi, 151 are administering the Covishield vaccine and 33 are administering Covaxin. Each centre has a target of 100 shots a day. On Tuesday, 12,717 beneficiaries were vaccinated in Delhi – of whom 10,694 were administered Covishield and 2,023 were administered Covaxin, government data showed.“The other problem is the relatively low turnout at centres administering Covaxin. The trend has been so since the launch of the drive (January 16),” said the second official.Delhi government records show that the 33 Covaxin centres collectively recorded a turnout of 61.30% on Tuesday against 70.82% for the Covishield centres. On Monday, turnout for Covaxin was 43.58%, against 56.48% for Covishield. On Saturday, Covaxin centres collectively logged 30.15% turnout against 58.32% for those administering Covishield, government records showed.Dr Suneela Garg, director professor of community medicines department, Maulana Azad Medical College in Delhi and member of the Lancet Covid-19 commission and vaccination task force for India, said: “For wastage, the central government has set a permissible limit of 10%. The wastage of Covaxin doses is clearly way above that mark. I would recommend that it is better to have vials with fewer doses. Also, Covaxin centres will have to make an extra effort to increase turnout. There is a need for intensifying campaigns and adopting a multipronged strategy to address vaccine hesitancy. Higher turnouts will reduce wastage.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/vaccine-wastage-at-4-1-for-covidshield-17-5-for-covaxin-in-delhi-101612893597345.html
10-02-2021||Delhi||2 injured after 80 years old building collapses in Delhi's Sadar Bazar||A single storey building, believed to be over 80 years old, collapsed on Tuesday morning in Sadar Bazar area of north Delhi, injuring a 30-year-old man and his mother.The incident took place around 10.30am in Qureshi Nagar area. Locals reported the matter to the police after which the Delhi fire service (DFS) was also alerted. Firefighters and policemen rescued five occupants from the building in an hour-long rescue operation.The collapse has triggered concerns over old buildings in the area and North Delhi Municipal Corporation has decided to conduct a survey of all old buildings in the locality.Atul Garg, director, DFS, said seven fire tenders were rushed to the spot to carry out the rescue. “Police, Delhi Disaster Management Authority officials and ambulances were called to the spot. A total of five occupants were rescued, of whom only two had sustained injuries and required hospitalisation,” Garg said.The police identified the two injured as Mohammad Nazeem, 30, and his 60-year-old mother Jarima and said they had sustained only minor injuries. They were taken to Hindu Rao Hospital from where they were discharged after treatment. The other three who were rescued did not suffer any injury.A senior police officer, who wished not to be named, said the reason for the collapse is being looked into. “Prima facie, it looks like the building collapsed because of its age -- portions of it were dilapidated,” the officer said.The collapse triggered a scare among residents whose houses are also similarly aged, prompting . the north civic body to order a survey of such buildings on Tuesday.North corporation mayor Jai Prakash visited the collapse site and directed officials to speed up debris removal.He further asked officials to survey all old buildings to identify those that need repair or are too dangerous for habitation. The area is congested with narrow lanes, which increases the risk factor.“This was a 70 to 80 years old building in Sadar Bazar area, which is very congested. Taking a cue from this incident, I have ordered a fresh survey of all old buildings especially in the Old Delhi area. Those that need repair, will be repaired urgently but buildings that are beyond repair should be evacuated and demolished so that similar accidents do not happen,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/two-injured-in-building-collapse-in-sadar-bazar-police-say-building-was-over-80-years-old-101612893539091.html
10-02-2021||Delhi||Seven samples from Delhi Zoo test positive for bird flu||As many as seven samples of bird droppings collected from the Delhi zoo have tested positive for bird flu. A brown fish owl, which had died at the zoo in January, had also tested positive for avian influenza, but since then, no other case was reported from the zoo until now.Ramesh Pandey, director, National Zoological Park, on Tuesday said seven serological samples of bird droppings were collected from four different parts of the zoo, frequented by birds, earlier this month.“These samples were sent to the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases (NIHSAD), Bhopal, on February 3 for testing. All samples are positive for the avian influenza virus,” Pandey said.The zoo director said all safety measures and protocols set by the Central Zoo Authority (CZA), the Union ministry of environment forests and climate change (MoEFCC), and Delhi’s animal husbandry department to prevent the spread of avian flu are being strictly adhered to by the zoo.“As per protocols, the surveillance will continue and samples collected would be sent for further serological examinations. The Delhi zoo is already closed and will continue to remain so until further orders,” Pandey said.In January, six bird samples from the Delhi zoo were sent to NIHSAD, Bhopal, but they were all negative for bird flu. These precautionary tests were prompted by the death of a brown fish owl at the zoo enclosure, the carcass of which had tested positive of H5N8 avian influenza.Samples of dead crows collected from the Red Fort in Delhi had also tested positive for bird flu earlier this year and the historic monument has been closed to public since then. The Delhi government, as a precautionary measure, had prohibited the import of chicken into the national capital in January, but the directive was reversed after the scare was brought under control.In a statement issued by the Union ministry, authorities have been directed to use a disinfectant spray of lime juice, Virkon-S and sodium hypochlorite, and a foot bath of potassium permanganate, at regular intervals.“Chicken feed to raptors and entry of vehicles inside the zoo have already been stopped, which is being further reinforced and intensified. Movement of staff and workers in the zoo is also being restricted,” the ministry statement read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/seven-samples-from-delhi-zoo-test-positive-for-bird-flu-101612893538474.html
10-02-2021||Delhi||One village, 10 people, 8 days- Farmers’ formula to maintain a show of strength||On November 26, thousands descended at Delhi’s border to protest against three contentious farm laws that had been passed by the Centre in September last year.Fast forward 77 days and the Capital’s borders continued to remain chock-a-block on Tuesday, with protesting farmers managing to continue their ‘show of strength’ at the protest sites against the three new farm laws — courtesy their novel “one village, 10 people and eight days” formula.A majority of the protesters said that their eight-day rotation helps them maintain a balance between the ongoing movement and their work. Many others also find it a way to counter “anxiety and depression” among the agitators.Under the “one village, 10 people and eight days” rule, at least 10 people from each village of Punjab, Haryana, and Uttar Pradesh (UP) participate in the ongoing agitation for eight days and then are replaced by another set of people from the same village. This way, farmers shuffle between their villages and the protest site after every eight days.Darshan Pal, a member of the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha, a group of several farmer organisations protesting against the three new farm laws across the country, said that the idea behind rotating protesters regularly was to avoid “stagnation”. “People from different villages have left their trolleys at the protest site. They come and go in small cars or tractors and use the same trolleys during their stay at the protest sites. There are trolleys from different villages across all districts in Punjab at the Singhu border.”Also read 'Farm laws not religious scriptures that cannot be changed': Farooq AbdullahAlso read: Eye on mahapanchayats, Samayukt Kisan Morcha to decide future of farm stir todayFarmers generally shuttle between their villages and the protest sites -- Singhu, Tikri, and Ghazipur -- on Sundays. Pargat Singh, a protester from the Tikri border, said he has returned back to his village in Ferozpur in Punjab on Sunday after spending eight days at the protest site. “It looks like the protests are going to continue and that’s why it’s important to keep protesters motivated towards the cause. The rotation recharges protesters. They can take care of their families, fields, and cattle back home while also participating in the movement. Besides, it helps countering cases of depression among farmers. So many protesters have already died by suicide after getting disheartened during the protest,” he said.A 52-year-old farmer died by suicide at the Tikri border on Saturday. He had left behind a suicide note blaming the government for delay in resolving the farmers’ issues. Last month, a 42-year-old farmer from Rohtak ended his life at the same border and in December last year, a Sikh preacher died by suicide at the Singhu border over the ongoing agitation.Protesters at the Ghazipur border said they are encouraging more people in their villages to visit the protest site. “Even if protesters travel back to their homes for work, people assume that the protest has started to weaken. That’s why this rotation is necessary to maintain sufficient strength at the protest sites all the time in order to keep the spirit of the movement high,” said Akshit Chaudhary, a farmer from Muzaffarnagar.Also watch: Delhi violence: 2 farmer groups withdraw from protest, condemn R-Day chaos||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/one-village-10-people-8-days-how-farmers-maintain-show-of-strength-at-delhi-borders-101612893357947.html
10-02-2021||Other||NHAI to start work on crucial decongestion projects in Delhi this year||Work on four major road infrastructure projects planned as part of a Rs50,000-crore plan to decongest Delhi and curb vehicular pollution will begin this year. The new road links will not only reduce the traffic load on arterial roads such as Ring Road but also make it easier to travel between various zones of the city.The four projects are National Highway 709B (Akshardham to Eastern Peripheral Expressway to Saharanpur bypass), Delhi-Noida Direct Flyway to KMP interchange via Kalindi Kunj bypass (part of Delhi-Mumbai expressway), Urban Extension Road (UER)-II and Dwarka Expressway.The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) which is executing the four projects said while work on some has already begun, on others it will start this year.Of the four projects, UER-II and Kalindi Kunj bypass were planned by the Delhi Development Authority and the Delhi government’s Public Works Department decades ago. But they got stuck due to technical and land acquisition related issues, said senior DDA and PWD officials.Decongesting East DelhiThe 31.1km corridor between Akshardham and EPE, part of national highway 709B, will start from Akshardham flyover and pass through densely populated areas such as Geeta Colony, Shastri Park, Khajuri Khas, etc. Of the 31.1kms, 14.7km will be in Delhi and the entire stretch will be elevated, officials said.Though tenders for the project were floated in January 2019, the project got delayed as the ministry of road transport and highways asked NHAI to reassess the financial viability of the project and explore options to bring down the cost. The direction came as the ministry was focusing on prioritising highway projects after evaluating them financially.After the evaluation, the total cost of the project has been revised to ₹2,388 crore from the earlier estimate of ₹2,820 crore. A senior NHAI official said, “We have opened the financial bids for the project. The work on the 31.1 km stretch will be done in two packages. Based on the financial bids, we have declared the contractors for the two packages. The work will be awarded soon.”The official added, “The work should start in 4-5 months. Some clearances such as environment, fire, setting up a temporary bitumen plant, etc has to be taken.”Kalindi Kunj bypassWork on the 59km corridor connecting Delhi Noida Direct Flyway to Western Peripheral Expressway on the Delhi- Mumbai expressway will start in the next few months. A senior NHAI official, who is associated with the project said, “The work will be awarded soon and the process to apply for various clearances will start. We are hopeful that the work will start from May.”To be constructed at a cost of ₹3,580, it will include Kalindi Kunj bypass project, which was conceived by Delhi Public Works Department in 2002. The PWD could not complete it due to land issues between Delhi and Uttar Pradesh governments.Of the 59kms, nine kilometres will be constructed in Delhi. An NHAI official said that the entire stretch in Delhi will be elevated. The project will provide seamless connectivity to commuters from east and north Delhi going towards Faridabad or Gurugram. This will take the vehicular load off the Mehrauli-Badarpur road.Dwarka expresswayWork on both the Haryana and Delhi sections of the 29km Dwarka expressway has begun. An official said NHAI has finally got all the necessary clearances for the project. “The deadline for the project is September 2022,” said another official.Urban Extension Road-IIThis was proposed in the Master Plan of Delhi-2021 as a third Ring Road. Planned by the Delhi Development Authority in 2016, the project was transferred to NHAI in 2017 by the Centre as there was inordinate delay in the execution of the project due to land acquisition issues.NHAI, which invited the bids for the ₹7,715.6 crore project in December 2019, asked DDA to pay for the viability gap worth ₹4,000 crore, as the project is turning out to be expensive.Senior NHAI and DDA officials said that the matter was under discussion for some time to find a solution to the problem. It is learnt that the two agencies have reached an understanding to make the project financially viable. A senior DDA official said, “It is an important project and efforts are being made to expedite it. The resolution to the issue regarding funding has been found.”An NHAI official said, “The bids were invited in December 2019 . Once financial issues are finalised, we will start work.”The UER-II project, which has been in planning for over a decade, was finalised by the DDA in 2016 in a bid to decongest the city. The 75.71km-long project will connect four national highways ( NH-1, 10, 8 and 2) and provide seamless access between north, northwest Delhi and IGI airport and Gurugram. Of the 75.71-kms, 43kms (Approx) will be constructed in Delhi.Experts hopefulTransport experts say that the construction of these projects will ease the traffic load on inner-city roads, as people can move from one part of the city to the other without coming to the centre of the city. S Velmurugan, chief scientist, traffic engineering and road safety, at CSIR-CRRI said, “The problem of non-Delhi bound traffic entering Delhi has been resolved to a large extent with the construction of eastern and western peripheral expressways. The other projects such as UER-II, Kalindi Kunj bypass, etc only further provide a buffer and reduce traffic load on city roads, as people coming from north Delhi need not to go through central Delhi to go to IGI airport.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nhai-to-start-work-on-crucial-decongestion-projects-in-delhi-this-year-101612893357385.html
10-02-2021||Lucknow||Criminals beat police constable to death, severely injure sub-inspector in UP's Kasganj, Yogi orders strict action||A police constable was beaten to death and a sub inspector badly injured after they were taken hostage and thrashed by criminals at Nagla Dhimar village under Sidhpura police station of Kasganj district on Tuesday evening.Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has ordered strict action, including invoking National Security Act, against the accused.Additional Director General (ADG), Agra Zone, Ajay Anand and IG (Aligarh Range) Piyush Mordia rushed to the village with heavy police force and are camping there, police said.Sources revealed that sub inspector Ashok and constable Devendra had gone to village Nagla Dhimar under Sidhpura of Kasganj with warrant of arrest against some criminals. Both the cops were taken hostage allegedly by men of a liquor mafia and beaten badly. The constable died while the sub inspector was found badly injured.Additional director general (ADG) Agra Zone Ajay Anand reached hospital in Sidhpura area of Kasganj where sub inspector Ashok Kumar was admitted.Yogi has also announced an ex gratia of ₹50 lakh for the kin of the cop killed. He said the government would arrange for full treatment of the injured cop."The state government has zero tolerance for crime and criminals. Strict action will be taken against those guilty without any compromise to law and order situation in state", said chief minister Yogi Adityanath in press statement released on Tuesday evening after the incident.District magistrate of Kasganj Chandra Prakash Singh stated that in compliance of orders from chief minister, a declaration has been made for financial relief of ₹50 lakh for family members of deceased constable Devendra Singh and a job to family member.Shock and grief prevailed in Nagla Bindu village which falls under Doki police station of Agra to which deceased constable Devendra Singh belonged. Devendra Singh's father Mahaveer Singh is farmer and is on his way to Kasganj to bring back the body of his son.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/criminals-kill-police-constable-severely-injure-sub-inspector-in-up-s-kasganj-101612892861085.html
10-02-2021||Pune||IMA holds hunger strike in Pune over Ayurveda surgery move||Pune: To oppose the Central Council of Indian Medicine (CCIM) gazette which allows students of Ayurveda to practice 58 surgeries, doctors of Indian Medical Association (IMA) staged a relay hunger strike in the city on Tuesday. It was a part of the nationwide strike organised by IMA from February 1. Prof Dr JA Jayalal, national IMA president, who was in the city on Tuesday, said that any operative procedure is a delicate operation which carries a thin line between life and death. “The modern medical surgeon does intense study in Anatomy, Physiology, Biochemistry, Pathology and Anaesthesia. Surgeons carry out hundreds of surgeries under experienced and wise professors in the surgical streams before getting the post graduate degree. To perform gastrointestinal and laparoscopic surgeries, the surgeon spends a few more years, which cannot be compared with the Ayurveda curriculum where the basic concepts are different,” said Jayalal. He said that mixing of allopathic surgeries with Ayurveda will hamper the growth and very existence of the ancient branch of Ayurveda. “An Ayurveda PG student after completing this course can perform surgeries from various specialised branches of Modern Medicine. It means the same student can perform appendectomy, kidney stones, ear surgery, can operate cataract, is allowed to gall stone surgery and is qualified to do dental extraction. “Such a wide choice is not allowed legally to even general surgeons of modern medicines,” said Jayalal. He said that the Ayurveda vaids will be given a “MS Degree” which will confuse the patients about discipline. IMA will take this fight ahead until the CCIM notification is withdrawn. “We are not fighting for losing patients. We are fighting against the mixing of disciplines which can affect the life of patients,” said Jayalal. Dr Arti Nimkar, president, IMA Pune chapter, said that the notification of CCIM should be withdrawn. “The four committees of National Medical Commission (NMC) should be dissolved immediately, which are formed for such ‘mixopathy’. Students of medicine and junior doctors are also protesting with us against ‘mixopathy’,” said Nimkar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/ima-holds-hunger-strike-in-pune-over-ayurveda-surgery-move-101612884656929.html
10-02-2021||Pune||Pune shivers at 8.6°C; coldest February day this year||Pune: Pune on Tuesday recorded February’s coldest day this year at 8.6 degrees Celsius. It also registered the second coldest city in Maharashtra after Jalgaon which recorded 7 degrees Celsius. Pune was also cooler than Mahabaleshwar on Tuesday which reported minimum temperature at 12.7 degrees Celsius.As per the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the night temperature in the city was 2.8 cooler than normal. The day temperature in the city was 31.6 degrees Celsius.As per the weather department officials, the night temperature will witness a gradual rise from February 10.“The night temperature in the city will see a gradual rise to as high as 15 degrees Celsius this week. With clear skies, the day temperature will likely be around 31 degrees Celsius,” said IMD officials.The weather department has noted that the drop in temperature was due to penetration of cooler northerly winds. Though there were no cold wave situations in the state so far, the temperature is now set to rise slowly. Parts of Vidarbha, Marathwada and central Maharashtra have seen a dip in minimum temperature in the last few days.“Gradual rise of minimum temperature by two to four degrees Celsius in the next few days is likely,” said IMD.Mercury goes southThe cities and their night temperatures on Tuesday (in degrees Celsius)*Jalgaon--7*Pune--8.6*Nashik--9.1*Gondia--9.6*Parbhani--9.9*Mahabaleshwar--12.7*Source:IMD||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-shivers-at-8-6-c-coldest-february-day-this-year-101612883156909.html
10-02-2021||Pune||Pune ranks second in state for vaccinating maximum beneficiaries||Pune: As of Monday, Pune district ranked second in the state in terms of vaccinating maximum number of registered beneficiaries. A total of 47,726 beneficiaries received the vaccine jab in the district. The district is behind Mumbai suburban district that vaccinated 53,268 beneficiaries and followed by Thane that inoculated 46,016 beneficiaries. Pune district has about 1.95 lakh registered frontline workers (FLW) and health care workers (HCW) registered on the Co-WIN app of which 24.42% have already been vaccinated by the district administration. Despite the multiple technical issues that slowed the vaccination drive during the earlier days of its launch, the district now stands second place in progressive numbers of beneficiaries vaccinated in Pune city, Pimpri-Chinchwad and Pune rural areas. Of the total 47,000 beneficiaries vaccinated till now, 46,019 are healthcare workers and 1,707 are frontline workers. The district has a total of 110,434 HCWs and 85,000 FLWs registered on the central government’s Co-WIN app. The Centre developed Co-WIN (Covid Vaccine Intelligence Network) app, a digital platform for real-time monitoring of delivery and distribution of vaccines. The vaccination drive was launched on January 16. After limiting the vaccination sites to 16, the district administration later increased it to 52 sites with walk-in vaccination facility. The move saw a surge in responses from beneficiaries. On Tuesday, PMC additional municipal commissioner Rubal Agrawal also got vaccinated. She said, “I got vaccinated today and I completely trust our Indian scientists for saving humanity from Covid-19. I request all to get vaccinated when their turn comes and make the world a safer place.” As of Monday, 509,746 beneficiaries have been vaccinated of which 468,293 are HCWs and 41,453 are FLWs in the state. Of the total, only 4,854 beneficiaries have been administered with Covaxin, India’s indigenous Covid-19 vaccine while others have been given Covishield. The jab factor Top three districts in state as per cumulative beneficiaries vaccinated as of Monday (February 9) Mumbai suburban: 47,726 Pune: 47,726 Thane: 46,016 Pune has vaccinated 46,019 HCWs (healthcare workers) and 1707 FLWs (frontline workers) Of the registered 195,434 registered beneficiaries in the district, 24.42% have been vaccinated||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-ranks-second-in-state-for-vaccinating-maximum-beneficiaries-101612880696660.html
10-02-2021||Pune||Maharashtra to probe 27 sub registrar offices for property registration violations||The Maharashtra state government initiated an in-depth probe of doubtful cases of property registration of unauthorised constructions and illegal plotting. As many as 3,00,000 documents registered at 27 sub registrar’s offices during the last three years are being searched. The action comes after complaints were made to Mantralaya alleging illegal registrations taking place in the city in connivance with officials. Inspector-General of Registration and Controller of Stamps, Pune (IGR) Omprakash Deshmukh said, “There were complaints regarding registration of properties of some unauthorised constructions and illegal plotting. The complaint was limited to one or two sub registration offices, but we are verifying and investigating all the 27 offices under our jurisdiction. We are investigating all documents and the investigation is in progress under my supervision and a report will be submitted to the government soon. If the court has stayed a land transaction, then only the IGR office can take action. We are not the department which carries out title verification as it does not fall under the act. It is the responsibility of the property owners to ensure that all their documents are legally verified and authentic.” Despite repeated attempts state revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat could not be reached for comments. The issue of investigating the sub registrar’s office gained momentum after an alleged complaint of registration of flats ignoring all norms was brought to the notice of Mantralaya. Following the complaint, the revenue department ordered an investigation into such type of cases and over 3,00,000 documents are being investigated, officials said. The IGR office had formed squads which are investigating the RERA number of the real estate developer, and whether the construction of a said project has got a principle approval from the government and whether the land was parcelled into pieces separately before being sold out. The investigation will continue until March 31 taking into account the voluminous number of documents. The investigators are unearthing details like how the land was divided into small pieces of one guntha each and then sold to the buyers in violation of the rules showing irresponsibility in the discharge of duty. 1,000 bogus registrations investigated in 2020 Earlier, the state government had set up a probe committee to investigate scores of bogus property registrations in violation of the Real Estate Regulation and Development (RERA) Act, 2016. The government had received many complaints in this regard especially that of 1,000 such bogus registrations at the sub-registrar office, Hadapsar on a single day. The government issued government resolution (GR) ordered the inspector general of registration and stamps (IGR) to constitute a squad to investigate the complaint made before the state. The IGR later submitted the report to the state government on December 1, 2020. The squad comprises of deputy inspector general of registration Govind Karad, acting DIG (headquarters) Bharat Garud, joint district registrar of stamps Vijay Bhalerao and joint district registrar Udayraj Chavan. According to the information available, a number of complaints were related to the registrar office (Haveli No 3) in Magarpatta-Hadapsar where scores of documents were registered in complete violation of the Rera act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/maharashtra-to-cover-27-sub-registrar-offices-for-property-registration-violations-101612869657144.html
10-02-2021||World||Covid-19: Justin Trudeau dials Narendra Modi for vaccine supplies||In what could be a turning point in relations between New Delhi and Ottawa, Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau on Wednesday reached out to Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi and requested a shipment of Covid-19 vaccines.Modi later took to Twitter to say that he “was happy to receive a call from my friend, @JustinTrudeau”. He added, “Assured him that India would do its best to facilitate supplies of Covid vaccines sought by Canada. We also agreed to continue to collaborate on other important issues like Climate Change and the global economic recovery.”Indian officials said the vaccines manufactured in India will be those from AstraZeneca and sourced from the Serum Institute of India. The start of shipments of the vaccines to Canada is believed to be “imminent” and only awaiting emergency-use authorisation of the AstraZeneca vaccine by public health authorities in Canada.There is optimism that the coronavirus vaccine deal will result in an improvement in ties between the two countries, which were adversely affected after Trudeau had made controversial remarks about the ongoing farmers’ protests late last year during a virtual event.The Trudeau government has faced criticism in recent weeks for its handling of the pandemic as its projected inoculation programme has run into difficulty due to shortage of vaccine shipments from Pfizer and Moderna.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-justin-trudeau-dials-narendra-modi-for-vaccine-supplies-101612981148618.html
10-02-2021||World||TikTok sale still in security review, says White House||The Biden administration is still reviewing the forced sale of TikTok’s US operations to Oracle Corp. and Walmart Inc., White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki said.“It’s a broad review that’s expanded beyond TikTok,” Psaki said Wednesday during a briefing at the White House. But she said that “it’s not accurate that there is a new proactive step by the Biden White House.”The administration is “comprehensively evaluating” risks to US data from companies including TikTok “and will address them in a decisive and effective fashion,” she said.Psaki’s remarks followed a report in the Wall Street Journal that the sale of TikTok, owned by Bytdedance Ltd, had been shelved indefinitely as the Biden administration takes on a broad review of national security risks posed by Chinese technology companies.Psaki said the review of national security risks related to US data, including from TikTok, is ongoing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/tiktok-sale-still-in-security-review-says-white-house-101612980763928.html
10-02-2021||World||Five storms in 10 days loom amid bitter cold in north United States||Icy blasts pummeled parts of the US Midwest on Wednesday, the first of five storms threatening a blitz of snow and sleet from Washington state to Washington, DC, and as far south as Louisiana and Mississippi.Frigid temperatures as low as minus 36 degrees Fahrenheit (minus 38 degrees Celsius) in Cut Bank, Montana, on Wednesday were blamed on a polar vortex threatening to move south as it hovers at the Canadian border, said meteorologist Dan Petersen at the National Weather Service's Weather Prediction Center in College Park, Maryland."It's like a rapid-fire series of multiple storms coming," Petersen said.The polar vortex is a vast frigid air mass high up in the atmosphere, bringing with it frigid temperatures that can be prolonged if a storm develops."The cold air will be there waiting for the storm. When a storm goes by, the situation around the storm will continue to reinforce the cold air that's in place," Petersen said.The first of those storms on Wednesday bombarded Kentucky, southern Illinois, northwestern Tennessee and eastern and central Arkansas."A lot of areas have light freezing drizzle, and it's going to get heavier later today," Petersen said. "That has the ability to break down power lines and, of course, it's very difficult to travel on icy roads."Next up is a storm expected on Thursday to drop 3 to 5 inches (7.6 cm to 12.7 cm) of snow on West Virginia into Virginia and the nation's capitol in Washington, DC Winter storm warnings were issued for the same time for metropolitan Portland, Oregon, and Seattle, Washington.On Saturday, a brewing storm threatens to head for New York and New England, fueled by snow likely to turn to sleet and freezing rain in the mid-Atlantic states.On Sunday yet another large system of "significant" snow and freezing rain is likely to slam the southern Plains and Mississippi Valley before heading north into the Ohio Valley and Great Lakes, he said."Possible freezing rain in northern Louisiana, Mississippi and Tennessee. There aren't too many ice storms down there so this will definitely stand out," Petersen said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/five-storms-in-10-days-loom-amid-bitter-cold-in-north-united-states-101612979906224.html
10-02-2021||World||Trump 'inciter in chief' of Capitol attack: Democrats||Prosecutors in Donald Trump’s impeachment trial said Wednesday they would prove that Trump was no “innocent bystander” but the “inciter in chief” of the deadly attack at the Capitol aimed at overturning his election loss to Joe Biden.Opening the first full day of arguments, the lead House prosecutor said they will lay out evidence that shows the president encouraged a rally crowd to head to the Capitol, then did nothing to stem the violence and watched with “glee" as a mob stormed the iconic building. Five people died.“To us it may have felt like chaos and madness, but there was method to the madness that day,” said Rep. Jamie Raskin, D-Md.The day's proceedings were unfolding after an emotional Tuesday start to the trial that left the former president fuming after his attorneys delivered a meandering defense and failed to halt the trial on constitutional grounds. Some allies called for yet another shakeup to his legal team.Trump is the first president to face an impeachment trial after leaving office and the first to be twice impeached. The riot followed a rally during which Trump urged his supporters to “fight like hell,” words his lawyers say were simply a figure of speech. He is charged with “incitement of insurrection.”Senators, many of whom fled for safety the day of the attack, watched Tuesday’s graphic videos of the Trump supporters who battled past police to storm the halls, Trump flags waving. More video is expected Wednesday, including some that hasn’t been seen before.House Democratic prosecutors on Wednesday plan to use Capitol security footage that hasn’t been publicly released before as they argue that Trump incited the insurrection, according to Democratic aides working on the case.Security remains extremely tight at the Capitol, fenced off with razor wire and patrolled by National Guard troops.White House press secretary Jen Psaki said Biden would not be watching the trial.“Joe Biden is the president, he’s not a pundit, he’s not going to opine on back and forth arguments,” she said.The House impeachment managers described police officers maimed in the chaos and rioters parading in the very chamber where the trial was being held. Trump’s team countered that the Constitution doesn’t allow impeachment at this late date.That’s a legal issue that could resonate with Senate Republicans eager to acquit Trump without being seen as condoning his behavior.Lead defense lawyer Bruce Castor said he shifted his planned approach after hearing the prosecutors’ emotional opening and instead spoke conversationally to the senators, saying Trump’s team would denounce the “repugnant” attack and “in the strongest possible way denounce the rioters.” He appealed to the senators as “patriots first,” and encouraged them to be “cool headed” as they assessed the arguments.Trump attorney David Schoen turned the trial toward starkly partisan tones, arguing the Democrats were fueled by a “base hatred” of the former president.Republicans made it clear that they were unhappy with Trump’s defense, many of them saying they didn’t understand where it was going — particularly Castor’s opening. Louisiana Sen. Bill Cassidy, who voted with Democrats to move forward with the trial, said that Trump’s team did a “terrible job.” Maine Sen. Susan Collins, who also voted with Democrats, said she was “perplexed.” Sen. Lisa Murkowki of Alaska said it was a “missed opportunity” for the defense.Six Republicans joined with Democrats to vote to proceed with the trial, but the 56-44 vote was far from the two-thirds threshold of 67 votes that would be needed for conviction.At one pivotal point, Raskin told his personal story of bringing his family to the Capitol that day to witness the certification of the Electoral College vote, only to have his daughter and son-in-law hiding in an office, fearing for their lives.“Senators, this cannot be our future,” Raskin said through tears. “This cannot be the future of America.”The House prosecutors had argued there is no “January exception” for a president to avoid impeachment on his way out the door. Rep. Joe Neguse, D-Colo., referred to the corruption case of William Belknap, a war secretary in the Grant administration, who was impeached, tried and ultimately acquitted by the Senate after leaving office.If Congress stands by, “it would invite future presidents to use their power without any fear of accountability," he said.It appears unlikely that the House prosecutors will call witnesses, and Trump has declined a request to testify. The trial is expected to continue into the weekend.Trump's second impeachment trial is expected to diverge from the lengthy, complicated affair of a year ago. In that case, Trump was charged with having privately pressured Ukraine to dig up dirt on Biden, then a Democratic rival for the presidency.This time, Trump's “stop the steal” rally rhetoric and the storming of the Capitol played out for the world to see.The Democratic-led House impeached the president swiftly, one week after the attack.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-inciter-in-chief-of-capitol-attack-democrats-101612979348154.html
10-02-2021||World||Prominent Saudi women’s rights activist Loujain al-Hathloul released from prison||One of Saudi Arabia’s most prominent political activists was released from prison Wednesday, her family tweeted, after serving nearly three years on charges that have sparked an international uproar over the kingdom’s human rights record.Loujain al-Hathloul, who pushed to end a ban on women driving in Saudi Arabia, was sentenced to almost six years in prison last December under a broad counterterrorism law. She was accused of crimes that rights groups describe as politically motivated, including agitating for change and pursuing a foreign agenda.Her sister Lina al-Hathloul posted a screenshot from FaceTime of a smiling Loujain on Twitter, declaring that she was finally home.Her early release was widely expected as the judge suspended part of her sentence and gave her credit for time already served. The move comes as Saudi Arabia faces new scrutiny from the United States, where President Joe Biden has vowed to reassess the US-Saudi partnership and stand up for human rights and democratic principles.Although released, Al-Hathloul will remain under strict conditions, her family has previously said, including a five-year travel ban and three years of probation.The 31-year-old Saudi activist long has been outspoken about human rights in Saudi Arabia, even from behind bars. She launched hunger strikes to protest her imprisonment and joined other female activists in telling Saudi judges that she was tortured and sexually assaulted by masked men during interrogations. The women say they were caned, electrocuted and waterboarded. Some say they were forcibly groped and threatened with rape.Al-Hathloul rejected an offer to rescind her allegations of torture in exchange for early release, according to her family. An appeals court on Tuesday had rejected her claims of torture, her family said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/prominent-saudi-women-s-rights-activist-loujain-al-hathloul-released-from-prison-101612977732608.html
10-02-2021||World||PM Modi speaks to Justin Trudeau, says India would do its best to facilitate supplies of Covid vaccines to Canada||Prime Minister Narendra Modi late on Wednesday said that he received a call from his Canadian counterpart Justin Trudeau where the two leaders spoke about vaccine for coronavirus disease and other important issues."Was happy to receive a call from my friend @JustinTrudeau. Assured him that India would do its best to facilitate supplies of COVID vaccines sought by Canada. We also agreed to continue collaborating on other important issues like Climate Change and the global economic recovery," PM Modi tweeted.The development comes in the wake of India clearing the supply of 24 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines to 25 countries on a commercial basis in February. This is more than than twice the 10.5 million vaccines that were exported in January, according to people familiar with the development.Was happy to receive a call from my friend @JustinTrudeau. Assured him that India would do its best to facilitate supplies of COVID vaccines sought by Canada. We also agreed to continue collaborating on other important issues like Climate Change and the global economic recovery.However, Canada was not included in the list of countries who will receive the vaccines from India, they added. Canada has sought 1 million doses of Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine manufactured by the Serum Institute of India (SII).The country has registered nearly 813,000 coronavirus cases till now of which 20,984 have died while 753,386 people have recovered. PM Trudeau had said on Tuesday that the government will step up its fight against the pandemic by obliging citizens returning home overland from the United States to show they do not have Covid-19, according to Reuters."Everyone arriving by air already has to prove they tested negative within the previous 72 hours and this rule is being expanded to land crossings starting on February 15", he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/india-would-do-its-best-to-facilitate-supplies-of-vaccines-to-canada-pm-modi-101612977542590.html
10-02-2021||World||Georgia launches criminal probe into Trump's efforts to overturn 2020 elections||A Georgia prosecutor's office confirmed Wednesday that it has opened a criminal investigation into “attempts to influence” the outcome of last year's general election. Officials did not mention former President Donald Trump by name, but Trump has come under intense criticism for a call he made to the state's top elections official last month.Trump pressed Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger to “find” enough votes to overturn Joe Biden's victory in the state. During the Jan. 2 phone call, Trump repeatedly argued that Raffensperger could change the certified results, an assertion the secretary of state firmly rejected.“All I want to do is this. I just want to find 11,780 votes, which is one more than we have,” Trump said. “Because we won the state.”In letters to Raffensperger as well as the state's governor, lieutenant governor and attorney general, Fulton County District Attorney Fani Willis informs them that an investigation has been opened and that all records related to the administration of the election should be preserved, particularly those that may be evidence of attempts to influence the actions of people administering the election.Willis spokesman Jeff DiSantis said he couldn’t name the subjects of the investigation, but said in an email that “the matters reported on over the last several weeks are the matters being investigated.” In her letters, Willis also remarks that officials "have no reason to believe that any Georgia official is a target of this investigation.”The initiation of a criminal investigation comes just two days after Raffensperger’s office opened an administrative investigation into the call prompted by a third-party complaint that alleged Trump had violated Georgia law.Investigators with the secretary of state’s office who look into such complaints typically present their findings to the state election board, which then decides how to proceed. If the board believes there’s evidence that a crime occurred, it could take action ranging from issuing a letter of reprimand to referring the case to Georgia’s attorney general or to a local district attorney.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/georgia-launches-criminal-probe-into-trump-s-efforts-to-overturn-2020-elections-101612976112002.html
10-02-2021||World||Oxford-AstraZeneca Covid vaccine recommended for all adults by WHO panel||A World Health Organization panel recommended AstraZeneca Plc’s Covid-19 vaccine for all adults over 18, paving the way to speed up inoculations in developing countries.The recommendation may encourage more countries to use the vaccine broadly, after some European Union countries advised against giving it to the elderly, citing insufficient trial data involving older people.The shot’s effect in older people is expected to be the same as for younger recipients, said Alejandro Cravioto, chairman of the WHO panel, in a briefing.The move is good news for developing countries, many of which are waiting to administer their first shots as wealthier countries have already inoculated millions of residents. AstraZeneca, which developed the vaccine with the University of Oxford, has pledged significant supplies to Covax, a facility that aims to distribute vaccines equitably around the world.The WHO’s recommendation on the Astra shot follows the organization’s decision to clear a vaccine from Pfizer Inc. and BioNTech SE in December. The U.K. drugmaker’s shot is easier to deploy than other vaccines like Pfizer’s that need to be stored at ultra-cold temperatures, and costs less.As mutated virus strains spread across the globe, concern has grown that they’ll impact vaccine efficacy. South Africa, where one of the variants was first identified late last year, said it would pause a rollout of AstraZeneca’s vaccine after a trial showed it had limited efficacy against mild infections with the strain. AstraZeneca Chief Executive Officer Pascal Soriot said the shot should still protect against severe disease, and WHO officials underlined the benefits of continuing to use the vaccine even in variant-hit areas.Covax Plans“We made the recommendation that even if there is a reduction in possibility of this vaccine having a full impact in its protection capacity, there’s no reason not to recommend its use, even in countries that have the circulation of variants,” Cravioto said.Covax said last month that it’s on track to deliver at least 2 billion doses -- about two-thirds of which will go to lower-income economies -- and to vaccinate at least a fifth of each participating country’s population by year’s end.The WHO’s emergency use authorization is needed for Covax to send the vaccines to participating countries, in order to ensure a product’s safety and efficacy for countries that might not have the resources to make the assessments themselves. Individual countries can still make their own decisions on the use of shots.AstraZeneca shares traded 0.9% lower in London.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/oxfordastrazeneca-covid-vaccine-recommended-for-all-adults-by-who-panel-101612975812404.html
10-02-2021||World||Facebook’s first step towards reducing political content: All you need to know||Facebook, Inc. on Wednesday announced that the company will temporarily reduce the amount of political content in the News Feed of a small percentage of people in a few countries. The announcement comes days after Facebook chief executive officer Mark Zuckerberg, in an earnings call, indicated that the social media giant plans to keep civic and political groups out of recommendations in the United States for the long term and expand the policy globally.Zuckerberg had said that such steps are necessary to ensure the communities users connect with are healthy and positive. The 36-year-old internet entrepreneur then revealed that the company was considering steps to reduce the amount of political content in News Feed as well. Citing feedback from Facebook users, Zuckerberg said that “people don't want politics and fighting to take over their experience on our services.”“So one theme for this year is that we're going to continue to focus on helping millions more people participate in healthy communities and we're going to focus even more on being a force for bringing people closer together,” he added.Facebook has now said in a blog post that the upcoming changes to the News Feed are along similar lines. It added that although the company already offers controls to help users manage what they see in their feed, it is trying to find a new balance of the content people want to see.Here are important takeaways from today’s announcement:The social media firm, over the next few months, will work to better understand the varied preferences for political content and test a number of approaches based on those insights.Facebook will temporarily reduce the distribution of political content in the News Feed this week for a limited number of users in Canada, Brazil and Indonesia. It will extend the move in the United States in the coming weeks.It will explore ways to rank political content in the feeds of Facebook users using different signals, and then decide on the approaches the company will use going forward.Content from official government agencies and services, Covid-19 information from health organisations and agencies will be exempt from these tests.It will not remove political content from Facebook altogether to preserve people’s ability to find and interact with political content on the social media platform “while respecting each person’s appetite for it at the top of their News Feed.”Facebook will carry out a survey on the users’ experience during these tests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/facebooks-first-step-towards-reducing-political-content-all-you-need-to-know-101612974893637.html
10-02-2021||World||Pakistan police cracks down on govt employees demanding salary hike||The Pakistan police on Wednesday fired tear gas at the government employees, who were protesting to demand an increase in their salaries and pensions.According to a report by Samaa TV, at least 2,000 people had gathered and planned to march towards Parliament House when the police fired tear gas to stop them.While the federal ministers, including Interior Minister Sheikh Rasheed, have said their demands will be met.However, the protesters have reiterated that the government will have to issue a notification confirming the increase in their salaries.Meanwhile, Pakistan Peoples Party (PPP) chairperson Bilawal Bhutto-Zardari and Pakistan Muslim League (Nawaz) (PML-N) vice president Maryam Nawaz have backed the government employees protest.Taking to Twitter, Maryam demanded the government to stop the "merciless torture" of the government employees."For God's sake, stop this merciless torture...Do not make the innocent government employees suffer from tear gas, shelling and baton-charging. They are not enemies but poor Pakistanis who are asking for their rights," she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistan-police-cracks-down-on-govt-employees-demanding-salary-hike-101612974909261.html
10-02-2021||World||Tsunami confirmed after 7.7-magnitude quake in South Pacific||A 7.7-magnitude earthquake struck in the South Pacific on Thursday, generating a tsunami that threatened island nations in the region.The quake struck at just after midnight on Thursday local time (1320 GMT Wednesday) about 415 kilometres (258 miles) east of Vao in New Caledonia at a depth of 10 kilometres, according to the US Geological Survey.The US government's NWS Pacific Tsunami Warning Center said "hazardous tsunami waves" were forecast for some coasts.It said waves reaching between 0.3 and one metre above the tide level were possible for Fiji, New Zealand and Vanuatu.A wave of 0.3 metres struck Fiji, according to the Twitter feed of the island nation's seismology department.It provided no further details.The Australian Bureau of Meteorology also confirmed in a tweet that a tsunami had been generated.The bureau warned of a threat to Lord Howe Island, which is about 550 kilometres (340 miles) east of Australia's mainland.The New Zealand National Emergency Management Agency released a statement telling people in coastal areas to move away from waterfronts."We expect New Zealand coastal areas to experience strong and unusual currents and unpredictable surges at the shore following a magnitude 7.7 earthquake," the disaster agency said."People in or near the sea in the following areas should move out of the water, off beaches and shore areas and away from harbours, rivers and estuaries."The affected areas included the far north of New Zealand's north island, the Great Barrier Island east of Auckland and a stretch of coast along the country's east.There were no initial reports of casualties or damage from the tsunami or the quake, which was initially recorded by USGS at magnitude 7.5 before being revised to 7.7.The Pacific "Ring of Fire", where tectonic plates collide, experiences frequent seismic and volcanic activity.In 2018, a 7.5-magnitude quake and subsequent tsunami on Indonesia's Sulawesi island left more than 4,300 people dead or missing.A 9.1-magnitude quake struck off the coast of Indonesia's Sumatra island in 2004, triggering a tsunami that killed 220,000 throughout the region.The death toll included around 170,000 in Indonesia -- one of the deadliest natural disasters in recorded history.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/tsunami-confirmed-after-7-7-magnitude-quake-in-south-pacific-australian-agency-101612973697741.html
10-02-2021||World||Facebook to temporarily reduce political content for some users in few countries||Facebook Inc said on Wednesday it would temporarily reduce political content appearing on New Feeds for some users in Canada, Brazil and Indonesia this week and in the United States within the coming weeks.Chief Executive Officer Mark Zuckerberg said in January that he wanted to "turn down the temperature" of political conversations on the social networking site because "people don't want politics and fighting to take over their experience on our services."The world's largest social network, which has received flack for not doing enough to remove hateful content from the platform, last month said it would stop recommending civic and political groups to users.Reducing the frequency of political content will mark initials steps to explore different ways to rank such content in people's feeds using different signals and understand their preferences, the company said in a blog post.Facebook will exempt content from official government agencies and services, as well as Covid-19 information from health organizations from the drill.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/facebook-to-temporarily-reduce-political-content-for-some-users-in-few-countries-101612970694869.html
10-02-2021||World||Ireland may fine residents 2,000 euros for holidaying abroad||Ireland's government is considering increasing fines for residents who break current Covid-19 restrictions to travel aboard on holiday to 2,000 euros ($2,426.00) from 500 euros, Prime Minister Micheál Martin said on Wednesday.Non-essential travel oversees is a breach the top level of Covid-19 regulations that limit people to exercising within 5 kilometres of their homes, except for travelling for work, education or other essential purposes.While passenger numbers are down 97% year-on-year, the government said two-thirds of Irish arrivals at airports are returning holiday-makers, which an official in Martin's department described as "a very concerning statistic"."There's a sense 500 euros is not a sufficient disincentive to travel abroad, that will be increased and the government is considering increasing that to 2,000 euros to act as a significant deterrent," Martin told parliament.Ireland is in the process of introducing a 14-day quarantine in hotels for all people arriving from Brazil and South Africa, and for anyone arriving without evidence of a negative coronavirus test.Concerns over highly-infectious variants have also led Britain to seek increased penalties for those breaking movement restrictions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/ireland-may-fine-residents-2-000-euros-for-holidaying-abroad-101612969214207.html
10-02-2021||World||Strong earthquake shakes western Indonesia; no tsunami alert issued||A strong undersea earthquake shook western Indonesia on Wednesday, but no injuries were immediately reported.The US Geological Survey said the magnitude 6.2 quake struck at a depth of 10 kilometers (six miles) and was centered 217 kilometers (135 miles) south-southwest of Bengkulu city in Bengkulu province on the southwestern side of Sumatra island.No tsunami warning was issued by the Indonesian Meteorology, Climatology and Geophysics Agency and no casualties were immediately reported.Indonesia, a vast archipelago of 271 million people, is frequently struck by earthquakes, volcanic eruptions and tsunamis because of its location on the “Ring of Fire,” an arc of volcanoes and fault lines in the Pacific Basin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/strong-earthquake-shakes-western-indonesia-no-tsunami-alert-issued-101612969503818.html
10-02-2021||World||US govt agency invites comments on proposed biometrics policy for non-citizens||The US customs and border protection (CBP) has reopened the comment period for the public on the proposed changes to its biometric data collection policies for an additional 30 days. The notice of proposed rulemaking (NPRM) for the department of homeland security (DHS) was originally published on November 19, 2020, which invited the public to provide feedback on the proposed amendments for non-US citizens entering and exiting the country.What are the proposed changes?Currently, the CBP may only conduct pilot programs to collect biometrics at exit points, that too at a limited number of airports and seaport and only from a limited population. The proposed amendment would eliminate the references to pilot programs and port limitations in the DHS entry/exit regulations. It would allow the DHS to collect photographs and biometrics from non-US travellers departing from airports, land ports, seaports, or any other authorized point of departure.The department of homeland security had drafted the regulation to increase the vetting of immigrants by expanding the scope of biometrics collection policies. The proposed regulation will authorise the expansion of methods for collecting biometrics, which will include palm imprints, iris images, voice recognition, and even DNA collection in certain circumstances. Foreign nationals such as H-1B visa holders could be subject to such biometric collections until they become US citizens.Read | Fears raised over facial recognition use at Moscow protestsKen Cuccinelli, a senior DHS official under Trump administration, had then said that the proposed regulation would reduce the dependence on paper documents and biographic information to prove identity and familial relationships. The proposed rule also authorises the DHS to collect DNA or DNA test results to verify a claimed genetic relationship when the applicant fails to provide sufficient documentary evidence to establish the same.The draft regulation drew flak from rights groups on the grounds of violations of privacy norms. Andrea Flores, deputy director of immigration policy for the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU), had said that new rules will make it easier for the government to surveil and target immigrants.The comment period originally closed on December 21, 2020, but the CBP, under a new administration, has decided to reopen it from February 10 to March 12, 2021. “We welcome the public’s input to the rule as we work to further secure and enhance a touchless, seamless travel experience through facial biometrics,” William A. Ferrara, executive assistant commissioner of field operations, CBP, said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-govt-agency-invites-comments-on-proposed-biometrics-policy-for-noncitizens-101612967254329.html
10-02-2021||World||Coronavirus cases globally declined by 17 per cent last week||The number of new Covid-19 cases reported across the world have declined, for the fourth week in a row, as per the data from the World Health Organization (WHO).CNN reported that in its weekly epidemiological update, WHO says more than 3.1 million new cases of Covid-19 were reported last week, which is a 17 per cent decline from the previous week.This is the lowest number of cases worldwide since the last week of October, about 15 weeks ago.The United States, according to the global health body, has reported the highest number of new Covid-19 cases, with 871,365. "However, this figure is a 19 per cent decline in cases from the previous week. Brazil, France, Russia, and the United Kingdom were also among the nations reporting the highest number of new cases worldwide," WHO noted.WHO's update also reported that Africa saw the "greatest decline" in cases (22 per cent), compared to WHO's previous week update, while the Eastern Mediterranean saw the smallest (2 per cent), CNN reported further.The global health body also reported that the number of new deaths reported globally -- from the deadly virus -- went down for the second week in a row, with 88,000 new fatalities reported last week, a 10 per cent drop compared to the previous week.Overall, new cases in the Americas accounted for more than half of all new cases worldwide, with more than 1.5 million new cases and over 45,000 new deaths.Globally, as of 10:13 am CET, 10 February 2021, there have been 106,321,987 confirmed cases of Covid-19, including 2,325,282 deaths, reported to WHO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/coronavirus-cases-globally-declined-by-17-per-cent-last-week-101612968094284.html
10-02-2021||World||Nepal: Communist rival Prachanda says PM KP Sharma Oli should resign, repent||Prominent Nepali Communist Prachanda, a leading opponent within the ruling party of Prime Minister K.P. Sharma Oli's decision to call for an early election, said on Wednesday the premier should resign and repent over the move.Nepal was plunged into crisis on Dec. 20 when Oli declared he could no longer work with rivals in his Nepal Communist Party (NCP), dissolved parliament and called for a fresh election more than a year ahead of schedule.Tens of thousands of people have since joined protests for or against the move."K.P.Oli if you want some political space, there is still time for you to resign and express repentance publicly," Prachanda told an anti-Oli rally.Prachanda, a former prime minister who still goes by the nom de guerre he used while leading a decade-long Maoist insurgency that ended in 2006, said protests to oppose Oli's "unconstitutional" move would rage across Nepal."Oli is not interested in the election ... don't be misled by his talks about elections, they can't be held as planned," Prachanda told the cheering and whistle-blowing crowds, near Oli's office in the capital Kathmandu.Oli blames Prachanda and other opponents in the party for a lack of cooperation he says has stymied effective government as the Himalayan nation seeks to navigate a pandemic-induced economic crisis.The Supreme Court is hearing more than a dozen petitions challenging the dissolution of parliament. Judges are expected to give their verdict this month.If the verdict is in Oli's favour then Nepal faces an election in two phases, on April 30 and May 10.Last week, addressing a rally of supporters in Kathmandu, Oli said the dissolution of parliament was his prerogative and pledged that the vote would be held on schedule.Nepal, a country of 30 million people, has seen vital remittances and tourism revenue hit by the Covid-19 pandemic, which has infected 272,349 people in the country, with 2,047 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nepal-communist-rival-prachanda-says-pm-kp-sharma-oli-should-resign-repent-101612963272328.html
10-02-2021||World||McConnell signals Republicans that Trump's conviction is a conscience vote||Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell is signaling to fellow Republicans that the final vote on Donald Trump’s impeachment is matter of conscience and that senators who disputed the constitutionality of the trial could still vote to convict the former president, according to three people familiar with his thinking.The Kentucky Republican has also suggested that he hasn’t made up his mind how he’ll vote, two of the people said, even though he voted Tuesday to declare it unconstitutional for the Senate to hear the case against a former president.That position is starkly different than McConnell’s declaration at the start of Trump’s first impeachment trial last year that he did not consider himself an impartial juror.It’s highly unlikely that the Senate will convict Trump of the House’s single impeachment charge of inciting an insurrection, which cited the former president’s actions surrounding the Jan. 6 attack on the Capitol. Conviction requires a two-thirds majority, which means at least 17 Republicans would have to vote with all Democrats in the 50-50 chamber.Only six Republicans on Tuesday voted in favor of the constitutionality of the Senate process. While that was enough for the simple majority required to proceed with the trial, it suggests that most GOP senators don’t want to vote against Trump.McConnell, in a leadership meeting Monday night, said the same things he has said publicly, a person familiar with the matter said.On Feb. 2, he told reporters: “We’re all going to listen to what the lawyers have to say and making the arguments and work our way through it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/mcconnell-signals-republicans-that-trump-s-conviction-is-a-conscience-vote-101612961198155.html
10-02-2021||World||Explained: What the WHO Covid-19 experts learned in Wuhan||A World Health Organization team is leaving China on Wednesday after gaining some new insights into the origins of the coronavirus pandemic that has now killed more than 2.3 million people worldwide — but with the major questions still unanswered.The visit was politically sensitive for China — which is concerned about any allegations it didn't handle the initial outbreak properly — and has been closely watched around the world.Team member Peter Daszak sounded an upbeat note on arriving at the airport at the end of the four-week trip to the central Chinese city of Wuhan, where the first Covid-19 cases were detected in December 2019.“We have clear leads on what the next steps should be," he said. "We know a lot more after the work that's been done.”The team's major conclusions seemed to confirm what most researchers had already surmised about the virus. The visit was never expected to definitively pinpoint the origin of the pandemic — an undertaking that, based on others, could take years.Here's a look at the theories the team explored during their visit:The BatsThe mission to Wuhan did not change a major theory about where the virus came from. Scientists think bats are the most likely carriers, and that they passed it on to another animal, which passed it on to humans. While there are other possibilities — a bat could have infected a human directly, for instance — the path through a second animal remains the most likely scenario, according to the WHO team and its Chinese counterparts. The question is what animal and where.The MarketThe Huanan Seafood Market, which had a cluster of cases at the start of the outbreak, has long been suggested as a possible place humans first became infected. The market dealt mainly in frozen seafood but also sold domesticated wildlife. That included rabbits, which are known to be susceptible to the virus, and bamboo rats and ferret badgers, which are suspected of being susceptible. At the WHO mission's closing news conference Tuesday, one team member said some of these animals have been traced to farms or traders in regions that are home to bats that carry the virus that is the closest known relative of the one that causes Covid-19.That finding could put renewed focus on the market. Chinese health officials have downplayed the market's role, noting that only surfaces at the market tested positive for the virus, not any of the animal products. A Chinese official said Tuesday that it appears there were cases elsewhere in Wuhan around the same time as the market cluster, so it remains possible the transfer of the virus from animals to humans happened elsewhere.The LabThe conclusion of the Chinese and international experts was that it is extremely unlikely the virus leaked from the Wuhan Institute of Virology, a lab with an extensive collection of virus samples. Former U.S. President Donald Trump and officials in his administration were among those who floated that possibility — prompting angry denials from China. And most experts have long been skeptical of it.In making its determination, the team said that such leaks are extremely rare and there's no evidence the virus existed in that lab or any lab anywhere in the world when the pandemic began. It also reviewed safety protocols at the institute, leading the team to conclude “it was very unlikely that anything could escape from such a place,” WHO team leader Peter Ben Embarek said.The Cold ChainThe joint investigation left open the possibility that the virus could have been spread to humans through frozen food products, a bit of a surprise as foreign experts have generally played down the risk.It's a theory that has been widely promoted by Chinese officials, who have detected the virus on imported frozen food packaging and seized on that to suggest the virus could have come to China from abroad.WHO team member Marion Koopmans noted that it still wouldn't answer the question of where the virus came from originally. “Its not the cold chain by itself, that cannot be," she said at the airport. "The virus has to come from somewhere.”The DataThe mission has been dogged by questions about how much freedom China would give the researchers to visit the places and talk to the people they wanted to. In the end, they appeared satisfied with the arrangements, at least in their public comments. Team member Thea Koelsen Fischer said she did not get to see raw data and had to rely on an analysis of the data that was presented to her. But she said that would be true in most countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/explained-what-the-who-covid-19-experts-learned-in-wuhan-101612961173222.html
10-02-2021||World||Four blasts hit Kabul, district police chief among the dead||Four blasts rocked Afghanistan's capital on Wednesday, killing two people, including a police chief who had been attempting to crack down on the city's growing insecurity, marked by almost daily assassinations."In the wake of three terrorist attacks in Kabul this morning, Mohammadzai Kochai, police chief of district five of Kabul was martyred along with his bodyguard," interior ministry spokesman Tariq Arian said.Another three people were wounded, he added.A separate blast later hit a car near the upmarket international Serena Hotel, although a police spokesman said there were no casualties.District five, where Kochai was based, is a transport hub between the capital Kabul and Afghanistan's southern provinces, many of which are dominated by the Taliban.Kochai had sought to crack down on the high levels of insecurity in the district in recent months.The Taliban did not immediately respond to requests for comment on the attacks. The group has denied involvement in a recent wave of targeted assassinations which the government and many foreign powers have blamed on it.Almost daily deadly attacks with small, magnetic bombs attached to the undercarriages of vehicles, roadside explosive devices and shootings are unnerving Afghan officials, activists and journalists.The attacks are concentrated in urban centres and come as protracted peace talks take place in Doha between Taliban militants and the Afghan government.Officials say the talks have largely stalled as US President Joe Biden's administration reviews how to handle the peace process, including a troop withdrawal agreement Washington signed with the Taliban under previous President Donald Trump.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/four-blasts-hit-kabul-district-police-chief-among-the-dead-101612961215916.html
10-02-2021||World||Houthi attack on Saudi airport leaves plane on fire, says state media||A civilian plane was engulfed in flames in an attack Wednesday by Yemen's Huthi rebels on an airport in southern Saudi Arabia, the Riyadh-led coalition battling the insurgents said."A cowardly criminal terrorist attack launched against Abha International Airport in Saudi Arabia by the Huthi militia," state-run Al-Ekhbariya television cited the coalition as saying."A fire that engulfed a passenger plane due to the Huthi attack on Abha Airport is under control," it added.The coalition did not report any casualties, or say how the attack was carried out, but earlier in the day reported it had intercepted two "booby trap" drones in the south.The incident was not immediately claimed by the Iran-backed Huthis.But the rebels appear to be stepping up attacks on the kingdom as well as on Riyadh-backed Yemeni forces after the United States moved last week to delist the Huthis as a terrorist group.The Huthis have also resumed an offensive to seize the Yemeni government's last northern stronghold of Marib, according to a government source, with dozens of casualties on both sides.The US State Department on Friday said it had formally notified Congress of its intention to revoke a terrorist designation against the rebels, which had been announced at the end of the administration of former president Donald Trump.The delisting move came a day after US President Joe Biden announced an end to US support for Saudi-led offensive operations in Yemen.Humanitarian groups were deeply opposed to the designation, saying it jeopardised their operations in a country where the majority of people rely on aid, and that they have no choice but to deal with the Huthis, who control much of the north.Saudi Arabia, which entered the Yemen conflict in 2015 to bolster the internationally recognised government, has repeatedly been targeted with cross-border attacks.Last month, it said it had intercepted and destroyed a "hostile air target" heading towards the capital Riyadh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/houthis-attack-saudi-airport-set-plane-on-fire-reports-afp-101612960965099.html
10-02-2021||World||Alibaba co-founder Jack Ma spotted playing Golf after weeks out of public view||For months, speculation over Jack Ma’s whereabouts has run rampant. Maybe the embattled billionaire had fled to Singapore, some posited. Or he had been placed under house arrest. Or worse yet, he was locked up in a high-security jail.As it turns out, China’s most talked-about tycoon has been working on his golf game.The co-founder of Ant Group Co. and Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. teed off in recent weeks at the Sun Valley Golf Resort, a secluded 27-hole course on the Chinese island of Hainan, people familiar with the matter said, asking not to be identified discussing private information. Located near the island’s southern tip, the course offers expansive greens and stunning views.It’s the first known Ma sighting since the former English teacher joined a live-streamed video chat with rural educators on Jan. 20. While that appearance helped quiet talk of Ma’s detention, speculation about his standing with China’s Communist Party has continued to swirl as authorities clamp down on his sprawling business empire.Ma’s golf outing adds to recent evidence that the outspoken entrepreneur has -- for now at least -- avoided nightmare scenarios like jail time or a government seizure of his assets.Ant, for instance, has reached an agreement with Chinese authorities on a restructuring plan that could be officially announced as soon as this week, Bloomberg reported on Feb. 3, citing people familiar with the matter. The deal is a first step on what could be a long path back to a revival of the fintech behemoth’s initial public offering, which was halted by regulators in November just days before Ant was due to start trading in Shanghai and Hong Kong.Another positive clue emerged this week from SoftBank Group Corp. founder Masayoshi Son, a longtime friend of Ma’s who was among the earliest investors in Alibaba. Son said during SoftBank’s quarterly earnings presentation on Monday that he has remained in touch with Ma. While he didn’t talk about the Chinese billionaire’s whereabouts, Son said Ma likes to draw and has been sharing his sketches via chat.Representatives for Ant, Alibaba and the Sun Valley Golf Resort declined to comment.Before the implosion of Ant’s IPO, Ma’s appearance on a golf course would have attracted little if any attention. The 56-year-old has been steadily relinquishing day-to-day oversight of his businesses in recent years, stepping down as executive chairman of Alibaba in September 2019.But even in semi-retirement, Ma has rarely stayed out of public view for as long as he did after his now-infamous critique of Chinese financial regulators in October. Within weeks of his speech at the Bund Summit in Shanghai, authorities scuttled Ant’s listing, called for an overhaul of the company and started an antitrust probe of Alibaba.Ma’s extended absence during the crackdown sent China’s rumor mill into overdrive, with some observers drawing parallels to Mikhail Khodorkovsky. Once Russia’s richest man, the Yukos Oil Co. boss spent about a decade in prison on fraud and tax-evasion charges that he said were retribution for challenging the authority of Vladimir Putin.Given the opacity of Xi Jinping’s Communist Party, it’s difficult to assess the endgame for Ma with any certainty. He was conspicuously absent from a list of Chinese tech luminaries published by state media last week, a sign his standing with the party remains diminished.For Hao Hong, chief strategist at Bocom International in Hong Kong, the most likely explanation is that Ma is simply laying low as his companies sort through their issues with regulators. Both Alibaba and Ant have formed special teams to work with the Chinese government, which is still fine-tuning new rules for the country’s fintech and internet industries.Ma, described as a golfing novice by one observer at the Sun Valley resort, may have ample time to work on his swing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/alibaba-co-founder-jack-ma-spotted-playing-golf-after-weeks-out-of-public-view-101612959156530.html
10-02-2021||World||Indian, Chinese troops begin to disengage at Pangong lake: China||Indian and Chinese troops have begun to disengage from the southern and northern banks of the Pangong lake, the Chinese defence ministry announced on Wednesday.In a statement published on the Chinese defence ministry website, spokesperson Wu Qian said that according to the consensus reached at the 9th round of military commander-level talks, the frontline units of the Chinese and Indian armed forces have begun to disengage at the southern and northern banks of the Pangong lake on February 10.“The Chinese and Indian frontline troops at the southern and northern bank of the Pangong Tso Lake start synchronised and organised disengagement from February 10,” said the statement. “This move is in accordance with the consensus reached by both sides at the 9th round of China-India Corps Commander Level Meeting.” The Line of Actual Control (LAC), the de facto border between India and China, passes through the lake, parts of which are controlled by the Indian and Chinese militaries.The details of the disengagement were not shared by the Chinese defence ministry, but it possibly indicates a movement towards resolving the nine-month military standoff between the two neighbours across multiple points in eastern Ladakh.The 9th round of China-India Corps Commander Level meeting was held on the Chinese side of the Moldo-Chushul border meeting point on January 24.At the meeting, the two sides had “…agreed to push for an early disengagement of the frontline troops. They also agreed to follow the important consensus of their state leaders, maintain the good momentum of dialogue and negotiation, and hold the 10th round of the Corps Commander Level Meeting at an early date to jointly advance de-escalation.”The two sides agreed to continue their effective efforts in ensuring the restraint of the frontline troops, stabilise and control the situation along the LAC in the western Sector of the China-India border, and jointly maintain peace and tranquility, a statement from the Chinese defence ministry said.The announcement on disengagement comes just two days ahead of the Chinese Lunar New Year on Friday. It also comes two days after the Chinese foreign ministry said Indian minister VK Singh’s statement on the Indian army transgressing across the LAC more than Chinese troops was an “unwitting confession”.Interestingly, the nationalistic tabloid the Global Times had reported in November that China and India had agreed to “implement a disengagement plan under reciprocal principle with the premise that India should firstly withdraw staff who illegally crossed lines on the southern side of the Pangong Tso Lake.” “India should first withdraw staff who illegally crossed the line on the southern side of the Pangong Tso Lake, and China will then consider disengaging on the northern side of the lake,” the tabloid had reported quoting anonymous sources.The announcement of disengagement from China is also markedly different from the resolution of military tension during the 2017 Doklam standoff: The two countries had issued simultaneous statements on troop withdrawals unlike this time.The Indian ministry of external affairs had said on August 28, 2017 that the “two sides” had agreed to defuse the crisis in Doklam, near the Sikkim border.The Indian ministry of external affairs had then said the “two sides” had agreed to defuse the crisis following diplomatic talks.Qian Feng, director of the Research Department at the National Strategy Institute at Beijing’s Tsinghua University, said Wednesday’s announcement was a positive move.“The agreement between the two sides to withdraw troops before the Chinese lunar calendar Spring Festival is good news, not only to avoid a continued decline of Sino-Indian current relations, but also to ease tensions along the border between the two countries and reduce the possibility of friction and conflict in the short term,” Qian said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indian-chinese-troops-begin-to-disengage-at-pangong-lake-china-101612958523004.html
10-02-2021||World||US-China bickering over Covid-19 continues after WHO's Wuhan team ends probe||China called on the United States on Wednesday to invite the World Health Organization to investigate origins of the Covid-19 outbreak there, as sparring over the pandemic continued after the WHO wrapped up its field work in the Chinese city of Wuhan.Hours after the WHO team revealed preliminary findings at a Wuhan news conference on Tuesday, Washington said it wants to scrutinize data used by the team, which concluded that the virus causing Covid-19 did not originate in a laboratory in Wuhan, and that bats remain a likely source."We wish that the US side can, like China, uphold an open and transparent attitude, and be able to invite WHO experts to the US to conduct origin tracing research and inspection," Chinese foreign ministry spokesman Wang Wenbin told a regular daily briefing, repeating a call it has been making recently.The origins of the coronavirus pandemic, which first emerged in Wuhan in late 2019, are highly politicized, with China pushing the idea that the virus has roots outside its borders.White House press secretary Jen Psaki said on Tuesday that the Biden administration had not been involved in the "planning and implementation" of the WHO investigation and wants to take an independent review of its findings and underlying data."The US independently examining the WHO's data? It's the WHO who should examine the US data," said Hu Xijin, editor-in-chief of the Global Times, a tabloid run by the ruling Communist Party's official People’s Daily, on social media platform Weibo."Did we all mishear, or is this spokesperson really so shameless?"Peter Ben Embarek, who heads the WHO-led team that spent four weeks in China - two of them in quarantine - said that the investigation had not dramatically changed its picture of the outbreak, although the virus could have crossed borders before arriving in Wuhan.In addition to ruling out a lab leak, he said that frozen food could possibly be a means of transmitting the virus, which would support a thesis backed by Beijing, which has blamed some case clusters on imported food packaging.The WHO's conclusion "completely refutes the conspiracy theory raised by some anti-China hawks, like former US secretary of state Mike Pompeo, who has been accusing the Wuhan Institute of Virology of leaking the virus," the Global Times wrote.Pompeo had said there was "a significant amount of evidence" that the new coronavirus emerged from a Chinese laboratory.Chinese officials have stressed in recent months that the virus could have emerged in multiple regions outside China.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uschina-bickering-over-covid-19-continues-after-who-s-wuhan-team-ends-probe-101612957806843.html
10-02-2021||World||Satya Nadella says big tech needs clearer laws on online speech||Microsoft Corp. Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Satya Nadella said social-media services like Facebook, Twitter and YouTube need clearer laws and rules to govern whether controversial accounts, like former US President Donald Trump’s, have a place on their services, rather than being asked to make free-speech decisions themselves. “Unilateral action by individual companies in democracies like ours is just not long-term stable—we do need to be able to have a framework of laws and norms,” Nadella said in a wide-ranging interview with Bloomberg Television’s Emily Chang. “Depending on any one individual CEO in any one of these companies to make calls that are going to really help us maintain something as sacred and as important as our democracy in the long run is just no way that at least I, as a citizen, would advocate for.”Microsoft doesn’t currently run a consumer social media service, but it is among cloud-computing providers that have been pulled into the debate over the de-platforming of certain individual voices, social-media accounts and entire apps, especially following the violent pro-Trump riot at the US Capitol last month. Amazon.com Inc.’s cloud unit pulled its hosting services from Parler LLC, a social network that touts itself as anti-censorship and was popular among conservative and extremist figures. Apple Inc. and Alphabet Inc.’s Google previously had removed Parler from their app stores. The three tech companies’ actions essentially took the service offline. Trump’s account, meantime, was banned from Twitter Inc. and remains suspended on Facebook Inc.In the past several years, antitrust regulators have ramped up investigations into the market power of large technology companies, just as Microsoft fell under government scrutiny and faced a US antitrust lawsuit more than two decades ago, when Nadella was a rising manager. It’s better for the younger technology companies to face robust competition and handle negative consequences of growing too big ahead of time, rather than waiting until their size leads to problems for consumers and rivals, the CEO said.“Big by itself is not bad, but competition is good,” he said. “And more importantly, you need to have a business model that really is aligned with the world doing well. There are certain categories of products where the unintended consequences of the growth on that category or lack of competition creates issues.”The need for competition includes rivalry from China, Nadella said, although national security concerns must be reckoned with by each government, Nadella said. “There is no God-given right for US tech companies to take for granted that there cannot be other tech powers,” he said.  “All of us in the West Coast of the United States need to be more grounded, because sometimes I think we celebrate our own advances far too much.” Instead, companies should look at what's happening in the world and how relevant their technology is, he said.Microsoft shares have surged more than 500% since Nadella took over as CEO seven years ago, after languishing for more than a decade under his predecessors, Bill Gates and Steve Ballmer. Though Microsoft has mostly eluded the regulatory scrutiny of other tech giants more recently, it has drawn some complaints from smaller rivals. In July, Slack Technologies Inc., which is being acquired by Salesforce.com Inc., urged European Union antitrust regulators to probe Microsoft for unfairly foisting its Teams collaborative software on millions of users by combining it with Office 365 cloud-based productivity programs. Nadella dismissed those claims. “I always ask the question, would Slack have even existed if it was not for the free access they had on top of, say, the Windows platform?” he said. “They didn’t have to call Microsoft. They didn't have to go through any of our app stores. They didn't need any of our permission compared to any of the other platforms that they're available on. We perhaps provide the most open platform in Windows and even in Office 365.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/satya-nadella-says-big-tech-needs-clearer-laws-on-online-speech-101612956802666.html
10-02-2021||World||Covid-19 maths: All the virus in the world would fit in a coke can||All the Covid-causing virus circulating in the world right now could easily fit inside a single cola can, according to a calculation by a British mathematician whose sum exposes just how much devastation is caused by miniscule viral particles.Using global rates of new infections with the pandemic disease, coupled with estimations of viral load, Bath University maths expert Kit Yates worked out there are around two quintillion - or two billion billion - SARS-CoV-2 virus particles in the world at any one time.Detailing the steps in his calculations, Yates said he used the diameter of SARS-CoV-2 - at an average of about 100 nanometers, or 100 billionths of a meter - and then figured out the volume of the spherical virus.Even accounting for the coronavirus' projecting spike proteins and the fact that the spherical particles will leave gaps when stacked together, the total is still less than in a single 330 millilitre (ml) cola can, he said."It's astonishing to think that all the trouble, the disruption, the hardship and the loss of life that has resulted over the last year could constitute just a few mouthfuls," Yates said in a statement.More than 2.34 million people have died in the Covid-19 pandemic so far, and there have been almost 107 million confirmed cases worldwide.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-maths-all-the-virus-in-the-world-would-fit-in-a-coke-can-101612956741139.html
10-02-2021||World||Ursula von der Leyen says EU was late, over-confident on vaccine rollout||As the European Union surpassed the toll of 500,000 people lost to the virus, the EU Commission chief said Wednesday that the bloc's much-criticized vaccine rollout could be partly blamed on the EU being over-optimistic, over-confident and plainly “late."European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen defended the EU’s overall approach of trying to beat the pandemic with a unified vaccine plan for its 27 nations, even if she admitted mistakes in the strategy to quickly obtain sufficient vaccines for its 447 million citizens.“We are still not where we want to be. We were late to authorize. We were too optimistic when it came to massive production and perhaps we were too confident that, what we ordered, would actually be delivered on time," von der Leyen told EU plenary.Despite weeks of stinging criticism as the EU's vaccine campaign failed to gain momentum compared to the Britain, Israel and the United States, the three main parties in the legislature stuck with von der Leyen's approach of moving forward with all member states together.“The key decisions were right," said Manfred Weber, the leader of the Christian Democrat European People's Party.The Socialists and Democrats party leader Iratxe Garcia said “Fiasco, catastrophe, disaster: they ring very true to our citizens," but added her party will stick with von der Leyen on the bloc moving together. “Criticism is necessary but with a constructive spirit."Von der Leyen's assessment came as the bloc's death toll passed a landmark of 500,000, a stunning statistic in less than a year that fundamentally challenges the bloc's vaunted welfare standards and health care capabilities.It came as the bloc was fighting off the remnants of a second surge of Covid-19 that has kept communities from Portugal to Finland under all kinds of lockdown, curfews and restrictions as authorities race to vaccinate as many people as possible.The last official weekly figures from the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control are only expected on Thursday but Johns Hopkins University produced a daily tally showing how the mark stood at 500,809 on Wednesday.In comparison, the United States, with a population of 330 million, leads the world per nation with more than 468,000 deaths.Von der Leyen stuck with her promise to have 70% of the EU's adult population vaccinated by the end of summer and blamed big pharmaceutical companies for not keeping vaccine production up with scientific advances.“Indeed, industry has to match the groundbreaking pace of science," von der Leyen said. “We fully understand that difficulties will arise in the mass production of vaccines. But Europe has invested billions of euros in capacities in advance, and we urged the member states to plan the vaccine rollout. So now we all need predictability."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/ursula-von-der-leyen-says-eu-was-late-over-confident-on-vaccine-rollout-101612954993888.html
10-02-2021||World||Trump impeachment: What is ‘January exception’ House managers argued against?||Majority of Republican leaders on Tuesday deemed the Senate impeachment trial of former US president Donald Trump unconstitutional as they voted in the favour of the argument that a commander-in-chief cannot be tried once he or she has left the office. As the prosecutors made their case on the constitutionality of the impeachment and removal of a former president, Representative Jamie Raskin, the lead House impeachment manager, said that the argument of Republicans would create a brand new “January exception” to the American Constitution.Raskin said that Trump’s defence team wants to call the trial over even before the introduction of any evidence on the basis of an argument that “if you commit an impeachable offence in your last few weeks in office, you do it with constitutional impunity.” According to the impeachment manager, the argument suggests conduct that would be a high crime and misdemeanour in the first three years and the “vast majority” of the fourth year of a presidency will be ignored during the last few weeks in office.“This would create a brand new January exception to the Constitution of the United States of America. A January exception,” Raskin emphasised, referring to the month in which the outgoing president leaves the office.Read | As Trump trial opens, Democrat recalls daughter's fear during riotThe House representative for Maryland's 8th congressional district said that such an exception would be an invitation to the president to do anything on his way out of the office, including use of violent means to seize the power. He warned that the lawmakers would risk allowing January 6, the day Trump supporters stormed the US Capitol, to become the future of the United States if they buy the “radical argument” advanced by the defence team.“In other words, the January exception is an invitation to our founder’s worst nightmare...What will the January exception mean to future generations if you grant it?” asked Raskin.“And if the president’s arguments for a January exception are upheld...he would have you believe there is absolutely nothing the Senate can do about it. No trial, no facts. He wants you to decide that the Senate is powerless at that point. That can’t be right,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-impeachment-what-is-january-exception-house-managers-argued-against-101612953595134.html
10-02-2021||World||Quad shows how US, allies dedication towards a free Indo-Pacific region, says US||The Quad is a key example of the US and its closest partners, including India, pulling together for the good of a free and open Indo-Pacific region, the Biden administration has said.The Quad, or the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue, is an informal grouping of four countries -- Australia, India, Japan and the United States. It is aimed at ensuring a free and open Indo-Pacific, a strategically vital region that witnessed increasing Chinese military assertiveness in recent years."What I would say generally is that the Quad is a key example of the United States and our closest partners, including, in this case, India, pulling together for the good of a free and open Indo-Pacific region," State Department Spokesperson Ned Price told reporters at his daily news conference on Tuesday.The evolving situation in the Indo-Pacific region in the wake of China's increasing military muscle flexing has become a major talking point among leading global powers. The US has been favouring making Quad, comprising a security architecture to check China's growing assertiveness.China is engaged in hotly contested territorial disputes in the South and East China Seas. Beijing has also made substantial progress in militarising its man-made islands in the past few years.Beijing claims sovereignty over all of the South China Sea. But Vietnam, Malaysia, the Philippines, Brunei and Taiwan have counterclaims. In the East China Sea, China has territorial disputes with Japan.The South China Sea and the East China Sea are stated to be rich in minerals, oil and other natural resources.They are also vital to global trade. Although the US lays no claims to the disputed waters, it has challenged China's growing territorial claims in the South China Sea by deploying warships and fighter jets to assert freedom of navigation and overflight patrols in the strategically important region."We view the Quad as having essential momentum and important potential, and that's why we're going to build on it by deepening cooperation on areas of traditional focus – and that includes maritime security – while also working closely with Quad partners to confront some of the defining issues of our time,” Price said.It includes the COVID-19 pandemic, climate and "democratic resilience as well,” he said.Price was responding to a question on news reports that the Biden administration is working on a Quad summit. "We don't have anything to announce at this time," he said. PTI LKJ SMN RS AKJ RS||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/quad-shows-how-us-allies-dedication-towards-a-free-indo-pacific-region-says-us-101612952881784.html
10-02-2021||World||Pfizer could directly deliver Covid-19 shot to South Africa vaccination points||Pfizer said it could deliver its Covid-19 vaccine, which requires ultra-cold temperatures for storage and distribution, directly to points of vaccination in South Africa.South Africa is scrambling to secure supplies after the AstraZeneca vaccine it planned to use to kick off its immunisation campaign had greatly reduced efficacy against the Covid-19 virus variant now dominant in the country.Pfizer said it had allocated vaccine doses to South Africa and was currently in discussions with the government."We are enabling direct shipment to the point of vaccination in a thermal shipper that will maintain the ultra-low temperature required for up to 10 days unopened," Pfizer told Reuters in an e-mailed response to questions late on Tuesday.Also read| BioNTech starts production at new Covid-19 vaccine plant in GermanyPfizer's Covid-19 vaccine needs to be stored and distributed at around -70 degrees Celsius, requiring countries importing it to have ultra-cold chain capabilities.That is a potential impediment for countries including those in Africa with weak public health systems."We have experience in distributing, storing and administering the vaccine in our Phase 3 trial sites around the world (including South Africa) so we already know that the processes we are using work, and patients are able to be dosed at the points of vaccination," Pfizer said.South Africa says it has secured 20 million doses from Pfizer, with deliveries starting in the second quarter. It also expects to receive 117,000 Pfizer shots in the first quarter from the COVAX facility co-led by the World Health Organization."The supply that will be sent to South Africa and to COVAX is manufactured at our site in Puurs, Belgium," Pfizer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pfizer-could-directly-deliver-covid-19-shot-to-south-africa-vaccination-points-101612949619412.html
10-02-2021||World||UK variant of coronavirus strain detected in 86 countries, says WHO||The World Health Organisation (WHO) on Tuesday (local time) announced that coronavirus variant B.1.1.7, which was first identified in the United Kingdom on September 20, has been reported in 86 countries.The variant B.1.1.7 has shown an increase in transmissibility, and some evidence of increase in disease severity based on preliminary findings. As of February 7, an additional six countries have reported cases of this variant, CNN reported.In the UK, for example, Covid-19 test samples of this strain increased from 63 per cent in the week of December 14 to 90 per cent in the week of January 18, the WHO said in its weekly epidemiological update.The WHO has also been monitoring two additional coronavirus strains that are actively spreading: B.1.351, initially seen in South Africa, and the P.1 strain that was first identified in Brazil, CNN reported.As of February 7, the B.1.351 strain has been reported in 44 countries , while the P.1 strain has been reported in 15 nations, said the WHO.According to CNN, scientists are not surprised to see the coronavirus changing and evolving but they fear that a variant could mutate to the point that it causes more severe disease, bypasses the ability of tests to detect it or evades the protection provided by vaccination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-variant-of-coronavirus-strain-detected-in-86-countries-says-who-101612952057305.html
10-02-2021||World||Myanmar largest trade union joins civil disobedience movement: Report||One of Myanmar largest labour group, the Confederation of Trade Unions of Myanmar (CTUM) on Wednesday vowed to prosecute officials who take punitive actions against government workers who are participating in the ongoing civil disobedience movement against the military coup, reported Myanmar Times.The union said that any official who forced protesting employees to resign or to leave their housing provisions would face charges.It condemned the aged practice of some officials who punish protesting government employees by forcing them to quit public service and to leave their housing provisions.CTUM is monitoring the government workers participating in the current protest against the newly established military rule.The union also said that it will provide free medical services to those who suffered from fear and serious trauma because of the actions of some unscrupulous officials, who allegedly misused their authorities, reported Myanmar Times.Myanmar's military launched a coup last week and detained State Counsellor Aung San Suu Kyi, Win Myint and other National League for Democracy (NLD) members. Moreover, hundreds of protestors including political leaders and students, who had demonstrated, were arrested.Earlier CTUM quit from the tripartite body comprised of government, business and labour representatives that discuss workers-related issues, to protest against the February 1 military takeover. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/myanmar-largest-trade-union-joins-civil-disobedience-movement-report-101612951069290.html
10-02-2021||World||Bangladesh to hang eight Islamists over murder of publisher||Eight Islamic extremists were on Wednesday sentenced to death in Bangladesh for the murder of a publisher, as the Muslim-majority nation grapples with tensions between religious hardliners and secularists.Faisal Arefin Dipan, 43, the owner of a Dhaka-based publishing house that had released several atheist books, was hacked to death in October 2015 by men suspected to be members of a local jihadist group.The attack was part of a wave of violence between 2013 and 2016 targeting secular activists, bloggers and atheist writers.Several top Islamist political party leaders were hanged over the violence under the government of Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina.Prosecutor Golam Sarwar Zakir told AFP that the judge at Dhaka's Special Anti-Terrorism Tribunal had convicted all of the eight accused men."He (the judge) said their goal was to muzzle people's voices by murdering bloggers, writers and publishers. They wanted to disrupt public security by creating panic among the people," Zakir said.Two of the men are still on the loose and were sentenced in absentia, including mastermind Syed Ziaul Haque, a sacked army officer, Zakir added.Haque has been charged with the killings of several secular activists.A defence lawyer for the eight men said they would appeal against the sentences.The Bangladesh government has set up two major anti-terrorism police units in recent years to crack down on Islamic extremists.More than 100 suspected Islamists have been killed in anti-terror raids across the country and hundreds have been detained. Around half-a-dozen Islamist militant outfits have been banned.Star Bangladeshi cricketer Shakib Al Hasan has become the latest target of radicals and had to be given an armed bodyguard after he was threatened for attending a Hindu ceremony in neighbouring India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/bangladesh-to-hang-eight-islamists-over-murder-of-publisher-101612950019809.html
10-02-2021||World||BioNTech starts production at new Covid-19 vaccine plant in Germany||BioNTech SE started production at a new Covid-19 vaccine factory in Germany, moving closer to its goal of boosting output in Europe by some 750 million doses a year.The first batch produced at the site in Marburg, north of Frankfurt, enough for 8 million doses, is scheduled for distribution in early April, BioNTech said in a statement.It takes only a few days to produce messenger RNA, the key ingredient in the vaccine developed by BioNTech with partner Pfizer Inc. But the test batch made this week will need to be purified, concentrated, mixed with lipids and taken to another site to be put into vials. The product will also need to clear the European Medicines Agency’s quality controls before it can be shipped to customers.Also read| South Africa scraps AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine, will give J&J jabsThe Marburg factory is a key piece of a plan by BioNTech and Pfizer to boost production of their shot to 2 billion doses this year. Pressure is mounting on vaccine makers to produce more, in particular as the European Union moves more slowly on vaccinations than the US or UK.BioNTech bought the Marburg site from Swiss pharma giant Novartis AG last year and plans to use it to supply the world outside the U.S. the plant is on track to produce as many as 250 million doses of Covid vaccine in the first half of this year, BioNTech said.Meanwhile, a Pfizer factory in Puurs, Belgium, that had slowed production due to renovations is also back to full capacity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biontech-starts-production-at-new-covid-19-vaccine-plant-in-germany-101612948749174.html
10-02-2021||World||Explained: Why Warren Hastings, 18th Century governor-general of Bengal, mentioned during Trump’s impeachment trial||The first day of former US president Donald Trump’s impeachment trial on Tuesday in the Senate revolved around the constitutionality of the case before the Upper chamber voted 56-44 in favour of the trial. House impeachment managers made their case for an impeachment trial, rejecting the argument of Trump’s defence team that a president cannot be tried after he or she has left the office. Warren Hastings, the former governor-general of the British colony of Bengal, was at the centre of the argument by prosecutors while debating the constitutionality of impeachment trial.Who was Warren Hastings?Warren Hastings was the first governor of the presidency of Fort William (Bengal) and de facto governor-general of Bengal during the reign of East India Company in the 18th Century. He abolished the dual system introduced by Robert Clive, the first British governor of the Bengal presidency, in which the company had the rights to collect revenue (Diwani rights) and the Nizam, Indian rulers, had the administrative authority. Both Hastings and Clive are credited for laying the foundation of the British Empire in India.Read | Key takeaways from Day 1 of Trump’s second impeachment trialWhy was Hastings mentioned during the Senate trial?The lead House impeachment manager, Representative Jamie Raskin, highlighted that the framers of the American Constitution borrowed the idea of this institution from Britain. Allegations of corruption and misconduct were rampant during Hastings’ term in Bengal and after he returned to England, the former official was impeached by British House of Commons over mismanagement and corruption. However, Hastings was later acquitted by the House of Lords.Raskin said that every single impeachment of a British government official that occurred during the lifetime of the framers of the Constitution concerned a former official. Hastings impeachment trial in the UK House of Commons took place during the Constitutional Convention in the old Pennsylvania State House in Philadelphia where framers had gathered to write the Constitution.“It was the impeachment of Warren Hastings, the former governor-general of the British colony of Bengal, and a corrupt guy. The framers knew all about it, and they strongly supported the impeachment. In fact, the Hastings case was invoked by name at the convention,” said Raskin.The lead House impeachment manager argued that Hastings’ case played a key role in the adoption of “the high crimes and misdemeanours standard” since it was the only specific impeachment case discussed at the convention. He further stated that not a single framer raised a concern when Hastings impeachment was held up as a model for writing the American Constitution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/explained-why-was-warren-hastings-mentioned-during-trump-s-impeachment-trial-101612948011906.html
10-02-2021||World||WHO expert slams US Covid-19 pandemic intel as curbs tightened in Europe||A WHO expert sent to China to probe the coronavirus hit out at US intelligence on Covid-19 as his team headed home with few answers about the origin of a pandemic that was forcing more clampdowns in some of the hardest-hit parts of the world.German Chancellor Angela Merkel was set to seek an extension of strict virus curbs, as the European Commission chief prepared to defend the stumbling vaccination rollout in the continent -- which accounts for a third of the 2.3 million Covid-19 deaths worldwide.The coronavirus has infected close to 107 million people, devastating the global economy, and questions over the handling of the initial outbreak in central China sparked an intense diplomatic row between Washington and Beijing.The WHO mission to the ground zero city of Wuhan wrapped up Tuesday without any concrete answers, with Washington again expressing scepticism about China's transparency and cooperation.But WHO team member Peter Daszak tweeted: "Please don't rely too much on US intel: increasingly disengaged under Trump & frankly wrong on many aspects."He said they worked "flat out under the most politically charged environment possible".China had repeatedly delayed the WHO trip, and bristled at accusations of a lack of transparency. Beijing warned Washington not to "politicise" the mission after the White House demanded a "robust" probe.State Department spokesman Ned Price said Tuesday that the United States supports the investigation. But when asked if China had fully cooperated with the WHO, he said: "The jury's still out."The WHO team did not identify which animal transferred the coronavirus to humans, but said there was no indication it was circulating in Wuhan before December 2019, when the first official cases were recorded.WHO expert Peter Ben Embarek also scotched the controversial theory that the virus may have leaked from a lab in Wuhan.Vaccine, surge worries in EuropeEuropean Commission President Ursula von der Leyen was due to explain the EU's vaccine strategy to the European Parliament in Brussels on Wednesday, with the bloc's leadership under growing pressure.Vaccine supply issues have already caused a diplomatic row after AstraZeneca said it would not be able to immediately ship the doses it promised to Britain and the EU.At the same time, the resurgence of infections across the continent is adding to the pressure on its leadership.A stricter lockdown will be imposed in Greece from Thursday -- in particular in the Athens region -- as Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis warned that his country was facing a third Covid-19 wave.Wary of infection numbers exploding again, German Chancellor Angela Merkel will seek to extend strict curbs at least until the end of February as fatigue grows with the partial lockdown in Europe's top economy.Immunisation efforts are being ramped in other parts of the world with a number of vaccines.Peru on Tuesday began administering shots developed by China's Sinopharm, while Argentina approved the Indian-made version of the AstraZeneca vaccine.South Korea on Wednesday also authorised the AstraZeneca shot for people aged 18 and above, including over-65s.A number of European countries have not authorised the AstraZeneca vaccine for the elderly -- considered the demographic most vulnerable to Covid-19.Japan will start vaccinations next week -- most likely the Pfizer/BioNTech jab -- but it is scrambling to secure suitable syringes so doses won't go to waste.Valentine's Day worries Along with mass vaccinations, researchers and engineers around the world are searching for other ways to help end the pandemic and return life to normal -- especially international travel.Tech-savvy Estonia is working on a pilot project with the WHO on how a globally recognised electronic vaccine certificate might work, including addressing concerns about security and privacy.A more immediate concern for authorities in many countries this week is Valentine's Day, with fears that the upcoming celebrations could lead to a surge in infections.Authorities in Thailand's capital Bangkok announced the city would not register marriages on Valentine's Day, a popular day for weddings.In Brussels, however, where restaurants are closed, some hotels have converted rooms into private dining salons for two."We're over the moon about being here tonight, just like in a restaurant," said Marine Deroo, a 34-year-old who tried out the concept ahead of Valentine's Day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/who-expert-slams-us-covid-19-pandemic-intel-as-curbs-tightened-in-europe-101612948378563.html
10-02-2021||World||Indian-Americans are more liberal towards issues in US, conservative in India||Indian-Americans have relatively more conservative views of policies in India while on issues affecting the US, the diaspora has a more liberal take, according to a survey of the political attitudes of the influential community in this country.Indian-Americans comprise slightly more than 1 per cent of the total US population-and less than 1 per cent of all registered voters.The survey, a collaboration between the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Johns Hopkins-SAIS, and the University of Pennsylvania, “How Do Indian Americans View India? Results from the 2020 Indian American Attitudes Survey,” draws on the Indian American Attitudes Survey (IAAS).The IAAS is a nationally representative online survey of 1,200 Indian American adults conducted between September 1 and September 20, 2020, in partnership with YouGov. The survey has an overall margin of error of /- 2.8 per cent, a media release said on Tuesday.Indian-Americans’ policy views are more liberal on issues affecting the United States and more conservative on issues affecting India, it said.Regarding contentious issues such as the equal protection of religious minorities, immigration, and affirmative action, Indian-Americans hold relatively more conservative views of Indian policies than of US policies, according to the survey results.Indian Americans, in other words, believe that white supremacy is a greater threat to minorities in the United States, a country where they are a minority, than Hindu majoritarianism is to minorities in India, a country where Hindus are in the majority, the report said.Seventy per cent of Hindus agree or strongly agree that white supremacy is a threat to minorities in the United States, compared to 79 per cent of non-Hindus.Regarding Hindu majoritarianism in India, however, the data point to a much sharper divide: only 40 per cent of Hindus agree that Hindu majoritarianism is a threat to minorities, compared to 67 per cent of non-Hindus, it said.Noting that Indian-Americans are divided about India’s current trajectory, the survey said that respondents are nearly evenly split as to whether India is currently on the right track or headed down the wrong track.On India’s top three challenges, government corruption (18 per cent) ranked the highest followed by the economy (15 per cent). Foreign policy issues—exemplified by China and terrorism—are found in either the middle or bottom tier of the rankings.Among the Indian Americans, a majority either strongly or somewhat support an all-India National Register of Citizens 55 per cent and the 2019 Citizenship Amendment Act (51 per cent), the report highlighted.However, they are more opposed than not to two other issues: the use of police force against peaceful protesters (65 per cent oppose) and government crackdowns on the media (69 per cent oppose).On the other issue of caste-based affirmative action in higher education admissions, the community is divided-with 47 per cent supporting this measure and 53 per cent opposing it, it said.Indian Americans are the second-largest immigrant group in the United States. There are 4.2 million people of Indian origin residing in the United States, according to 2018 data.Meanwhile, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is the most popular political party among Indian-Americans, the survey said.“One-third of respondents favour the ruling BJP while just 12 per cent identify with the Congress Party,” it said.However, two in five Indian Americans do not identify with an Indian political party-suggesting an arms-length relationship to everyday politics in India, it added. Indian-Americans hold broadly favourable views of (Prime Minister Narendra) Modi, the survey said.Nearly half of all Indian-Americans approve of Modi’s performance as prime minister.“This support is greatest among Republicans, Hindus, people in the engineering profession, those not born in the United States, and those who hail from North and West India,” the survey results said.Further, the Indian-Americans, who have raised their political profile in the country, are broadly supportive of the US-India relationship, the survey results concluded.A plurality of Indian-Americans believe that current levels of US support for India are adequate, while a large majority hold unfavourable opinions of China.However, Indian-Americans are divided about US efforts to strengthen India’s military as a check against China.Foreign-born Indian-Americans and those who identify as Republicans are more supportive of the US efforts to support India militarily than their US-born and Democratic counterparts.Authors of the report are Sumitra Badrinathan from University of Pennsylvania, Devesh Kapur from Johns Hopkins-SAIS and Milan Vaishnav from Carnegie Endowment for International Peace.According to a UN report in January, India has the largest diaspora population in the world with 18 million people from the country living outside their homeland in 2020. The UAE, the US and Saudi Arabia host the largest number of migrants from India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indianamericans-are-more-liberal-towards-issues-in-us-conservative-in-india-101612944866259.html
10-02-2021||World||Indian-American Neera Tanden owes her success to her immigrant mother||Indian-American political consultant Neera Tanden, who has been nominated by President Joe Biden as his budget director, attributed her success to the grit and resilience of her mother, an immigrant from India who was left to make it on her own in America with two young children after divorce.Tanden, 50, if confirmed by the Senate, would be the first woman of colour and first Indian-American to lead the Office of Management and Budget (OMB), which serves the President of the United States in overseeing the implementation of his vision across the executive branch.Her mother Maya and family members were present during her confirmation hearing by the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee on Tuesday.“I owe my presence here to their love and support and to the grit and resilience of my mother, an immigrant from India who was left to make it on her own in America with two young children after her divorce from my father. Back then, she faced a harsh choice. Stay in the United States and rely on the social safety net or return to India where she knew her children would face the stigma of divorce,” Tanden told lawmakers during her confirmation hearing.“She (mother) had faith in this country and made the decision, I believe the courageous decision, to stay. We relied on food stamps to eat, Section 8 vouchers to pay the rent,” she told the Senators.“At school, I remember being the only kid in the cafeteria line who used USD 0.10 vouchers from the free and reduced lunch programme. I remember using food stamps in the grocery store. Within just a few years, my mother found a job and a few years later, she was earning a middle-class salary. Soon, she was able to buy a home and eventually, she saw her children off to college and beyond,” Tanden said.Senator Amy Klobuchar who introduced her during the hearing also praised her mother Maya.“Neera is the daughter of Indian immigrants and grew up in Bedford, Massachusetts, raised by her mom Maya, Neera learned the value of perseverance at a very young age. Determined to succeed, like so many immigrants, Maya put her kids first and, as a single mom, she first relied on food stamps and public housing to make ends meet,” Klobuchar said.“Maya then found new footing and began working as a travel agent, forging her family's path to the middle class. It is her mother's work ethic and resolve that all of us see in Neera and it's those same qualities that I know will serve her well as our next director of the Office of Management and Budget,” she said.“As she started out as a travel agent, Maya may not have ever thought that her daughter would one day be asked to serve in the cabinet of the president of the United States. But after years of never taking no for an answer and setting high expectations for Neera, somehow we all ended up here today. Maya, Neera, her family, and all of us.Growing up, Neera understood the circumstances of her family's struggle and watched social programs work. Because of what--that personal connection, she knew from a young age that she wanted to pursue public service,” the Senator said.Tanden told lawmakers that she spent every day grateful for a nation and a government that had faith in her mother and in her, that invested in humanity and gave her a fair shot to pursue her potential.“As I sit before this committee, I'm mindful that my path in life would never have been possible without budgetary choices that reflected our nation's values, many of them made in the very agency I am now nominated to lead,” she said.During the hearing, Tanden also apologised for deleting the tweets that were critical of the Republican Senators and its leadership.“I appreciate people's concerns about my tweets and I've regretted them. And I deleted tweets because I regretted my tone. I've deleted tweets over many months. But for those concerned about --my rhetoric and my language, I'm sorry for any hurt that they've caused,” Tanden said.Senator Rob Portman said that there are media reports that during November of 2020 after the election, more than 1,000 tweets were deleted from Tanden’s account. “Some of these public statements have been tweets. Are these media reports that you deleted more than 1,000 tweets in November in advance of your nomination accurate? And if so, why did you delete them?” he asked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indianamerican-neera-tanden-owes-her-success-to-her-immigrant-mother-101612946639407.html
10-02-2021||World||South Africa scraps AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine, will give J&J jabs||South Africa will give the unapproved Johnson & Johnson vaccine to its front-line health care workers beginning next week as a study to see what protection it provides from Covid-19, particularly against the variant dominant in South Africa, the health minister announced Wednesday.Zweli Mkhize said South Africa has scrapped plans to use the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine because it “does not prevent mild to moderate disease” of the variant that has spread widely in South Africa.The one-shot J&J vaccine is still being tested internationally and has not been approved in any country.But Mkhize, in a nationally broadcast address, declared that the vaccine is safe, relying on tests of 44,000 people done in South Africa, the United States and Latin America.The J&J vaccines will be used to launch the first phase of South Africa's vaccination drive in which the country's 1.25 million health care workers will be inoculated, he said, adding the medical workers will be closely monitored to see what protection they get from the inoculation.“The Johnson & Johnson vaccine has been proven effective against the 501Y.V2 variant (dominant in South Africa) and the necessary approval processes for use in South Africa are underway,” said Mkhize.“The roll-out of vaccination will proceed in the form of an implementation study with the partnership of the Medical Research Council and the National Department of Health vaccination sites across the country," he said. "This will provide valuable information about the pandemic in the post-vaccination community and thus, ensure early identification of breakthrough infections should they occur amongst vaccinated health workers.”Those vaccine shots will be followed by a campaign to vaccinate an estimated 40 million people in South Africa by the end of the year. South Africa will be using the Pfizer vaccine and others, possibly including the Russian Sputnik V and the Chinese Sinopharm vaccine, Mkhize said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/south-africa-scraps-astrazeneca-covid-19-vaccine-will-give-j-j-jabs-101612946498782.html
10-02-2021||World||Chinese envoy calls for putting boundary issue in ‘appropriate place’||China and India should “meet each other half way” in addressing problems and put the boundary dispute in “an appropriate place in bilateral relations” while tackling differences in a constructive manner, Chinese ambassador Sun Weidong has said.In an article titled “China and the world in the year of the Ox” published on the website The Policy Chronicle on Wednesday, Sun also called for the two sides to “respect each other, enhance mutual trust [and] seek common ground while shelving differences”.The Chinese envoy’s remarks go against the position taken by the Indian leadership amid the dragging military standoff in Ladakh sector of the Line of Actual Control (LAC). The Indian side has said the development of the overall relationship with China is based on peace and tranquillity built up at the LAC in recent decades through several agreements on border management.While outlining eight principles to help repair strained relations with China on January 28, external affairs minister S Jaishankar had said China’s actions in Ladakh last year have “profoundly disturbed” ties because they reflected a disregard for commitments on minimising troop levels and a “willingness to breach peace and tranquillity”.Also Watch: Biden official on ties with India, China challenge & farmers’ protestJaishankar also said any expectation that things could “carry on undisturbed despite the situation at the border” was “simply not realistic”.The Chinese envoy described China and India as large developing countries at a critical stage of development, and wrote in the article, “We should put the boundary issue in an appropriate place in bilateral relations, address differences in a rational and constructive manner and not allow our differences to become disputes.”He added, “It’s important for China and India to respect each other, enhance mutual trust, seek common ground while shelving differences and meet each other half way.”Sun also wrote that cooperation between China and India “far outweighs our differences, and our common interests are far greater than our inconsistencies”.“On the journey toward common rejuvenation, our two countries should run the marathon together and help each other achieve their respective dreams. In the new year, we must stick to the right direction of China-India relations and implement the important consensus reached between our leaders that China and India are partners and opportunities to each other, not adversaries or threats to each other,” he wrote in the article ahead of the Chinese year of the ox, which is set to begin on February 12.Sun also called for boosting cooperation in combating Covid-19, economic recovery, multilateralism and global governance, and bringing “bilateral relations back on the right track of sound and steady development, making our due contribution to maintaining world peace and promoting common development”.India and China have been unable to resolve the border standoff that emerged in the open in May last year despite several rounds of military and diplomatic talks. There has been no headway in efforts aimed at disengagement and de-escalation even after meetings between the foreign ministers of the two sides.The standoff also led to the first incident with fatalities on the LAC since 1975, when 20 Indian soldiers and an unspecified number of Chinese troops were killed in a clash in Galwan Valley last June. Tens of thousands of troops from both sides have dug in along the LAC for the harsh winter and there is mounting evidence that China has bolstered military and civilian infrastructure in Tibet over the past three years to facilitate the speedy movement of forces.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinese-envoy-calls-for-putting-boundary-issue-in-appropriate-place-101612945502970.html
10-02-2021||World||Japan will begin giving Covid-19 vaccine next week||Japan will begin administering the Covid-19 vaccine next week, with medical experts at the pandemic's frontlines the first recipients.“We will make every effort to prepare for everything,” Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga said at a meeting of ruling party officials Wednesday where he confirmed the timing of the first inoculations.He called for cooperation by doctors, nurses and local municipalities to smoothly carry out the massive inoculations.A health ministry panel is expected to give its first greenlight for a Covid-19 vaccine — one developed by Pfizer Inc. — within days.Also read| Concerned by China’s attempts to intimidate neighbours, we stand by partners: USJapan has also signed agreements with AstraZeneca of Britain and Moderna Inc. of the United States to provide a total of more than 310 million vaccine doses, or enough to cover the country's entire population, this year. Pfizer is to provide 144 million of them.Japanese officials have raised concerns about supply uncertainties of vaccines coming from Europe.Vaccines are considered key to holding the postponed Tokyo Olympics this summer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/japan-will-begin-giving-covid-19-vaccine-next-week-101612943999299.html
10-02-2021||World||US concerned over China’s attempt to ‘intimidate’ neighbours, stands by partners||The US has expressed concern at China’s attempts to “intimidate its neighbours” against the backdrop of the India-China border standoff, and said it will stand with friends and partners to advance security and prosperity across the Indo-Pacific. US state department’s spokesperson Ned Price made the remarks at a news briefing on Tuesday in response to a question on the Biden administration’s position on China’s efforts to encroach on India’s territory. The US views India as “one of the most important partners in the Indo-Pacific”, and welcomes India’s emergence as a “leading global power and its role as a net security provider in the region”, Price said.Also Read | Joe Biden withdraws US policy to track Chinese influence in American schools Key members of the Biden administration, such as secretary of state Antony Blinken have identified China as one of the main concerns for the US while supporting the strong position taken against China by former president Donald Trump. However, they have signalled the new administration’s handling of the issue will not be as confrontational as the approach adopted by Trump. Price said the US is closely monitoring the India-China standoff. “We are concerned by Beijing’s pattern of ongoing attempts to intimidate its neighbours. As always, we’ll stand with friends, we’ll stand with partners, we’ll stand with allies to advance our shared prosperity, security, and values in...the Indo-Pacific,” he said. “We note the ongoing talks between the governments of India and China, and we continue to support direct dialogue and a peaceful resolution of those border disputes,” he added. Price pointed to India’s key role as an important partner for the US in the Indo-Pacific region and said: “We welcome India’s emergence as a leading global power and its role as a net security provider in the region. We cooperate on a wide range of diplomatic and security issues, including defence, non-proliferation, regional cooperation in the Indo-Pacific, counter-terrorism, peacekeeping, the environment, health, education, technology, agriculture, space, and oceans.” He also described the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue or Quad – which groups the US, India, Australia and Japan – as a key example of the US and its closest partners “pulling together for the good of a free and open Indo-Pacific region”. The US is going to build on the Quad by deepening cooperation on areas of traditional focus, including maritime security, while also working closely with Quad partners to “confront some of the defining issues of our time”, such as Covid-19, climate change and democratic resilience, he said. The two countries also work closely in international organisations, and the US welcomes India joining the UN Security Council as a non-permanent member for a two-year term. “We also remain India’s largest and most important trading partner, with total bilateral trade increasing to $146 billion in 2019. US companies, of course, are a large source of India’s foreign direct investment,” Price said. Price highlighted people-to-people ties and noted that nearly four million Indian Americans “call the US home, contributing in their communities and proudly serving their country in uniform”. Responding to a question about Democratic Party lawmakers and vice-president Kamala Harris raising concerns in the past about human rights in India and the situation in Kashmir, Price said the US is “committed to supporting democratic values, including a free and open civil society and the strong rule of law” in the case of India and every partner across the board. “We regularly engage with the government of India...on our shared commitment to democratic values. We believe it’s the bedrock for the US-India relationship. And it’s actually in keeping...with India’s own democratic values, its pluralistic values, and its history of tolerance,” he said. The US-India comprehensive global strategic partnership is broad and multifaceted, and the US will continue engaging at the “highest levels of our government to deepen cooperation on many fronts, and we are confident that the strong and upward trajectory of our partnership will, in fact, continue”, Price added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/concerned-by-china-s-attempts-to-intimidate-neighbours-we-stand-by-partners-us-101612942862199.html
10-02-2021||World||Democrats attempt to push through school funding, wage increase||House Democrats muscled past Republicans on portions of President Joe Biden's pandemic plan, including a proposed $130 billion in additional relief to help the nation's schools reopen and a gradual increase of the federal minimum wage to $15 an hour.Democrats on the Education and Labor Committee say schools won't be able to reopen safely until they get an infusion of federal funding to repair building ventilation systems, buy protective equipment and take other steps recommended by federal health officials. The plan faces opposition from Republicans who want to tie new school funding to reopening.The panel met Tuesday to craft its portion of a $1.9 trillion Covid-19 relief package that tracks with Biden's plan for battling the pandemic and reviving a still staggering economy. Democrats hope to rush the bill to Biden for his signature by mid-March, using a special budget-related process allowing certain legislation to be approved by a simple majority.Rep. Bobby Scott, chair of the Education and Labor Committee, dismissed complaints from Republicans who objected to use of the process.“We must address the urgent needs of the people now," said Scott, D-Va., “The multiple crises affecting our communities will grow worse every day if we do not act. We must recognize that we cannot afford to prioritize process over the urgent needs of people across this country.”House Republicans attempted dozens of changes to the legislation at a hearing that stretched late into the evening. They proposed amendments to limit funding only to schools offering in-person instruction, or to steer aid to families if their schools continued operating online. On the wage increase, they sought to exempt small businesses or certain rural areas. It appeared all of the amendments would be defeated.Biden has made reopening most of the nation's K-8 schools within his first 100 days in office a key goal. The issue has become increasingly heated as some school districts face gridlock with teachers who have refused to support reopening until their demands are met. Biden's plan for $130 billion in school funding is in addition to more than $8 billion from previous relief packages.In a tweak to Biden's plan, the Democratic proposal would require schools to reserve at least 20% of the funding for efforts to address learning loss, including after-school programs and summer classes. The bill also matches Biden's proposed $40 billion for colleges and universities but, unlike the White House plan, makes private colleges eligible for relief.Democrats also tucked in a new limit on for-profit colleges that the party has pushed for years. The proposal would prevent for-profit colleges from accepting more than 90% of their overall funding from federal sources. An existing federal law includes that cap for some federal sources but excludes funding from the GI Bill and other veterans programs.Republicans blasted the legislation in its entirety, saying schools have already received billions in aid and are safe to reopen. They cited data from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention showing that social distancing and wearing a mask significantly reduce the spread of the virus in school settings.“Students are falling behind, and mental health issues are on the rise. We know the costs of keeping schools closed are high. So why are schools still closed?” said Rep. Virginia Foxx, R-N.C., the ranking Republican on the Education and Labor Committee. “Unfortunately, this bill is full of partisan policies disguised as COVID relief measures.”The lawmakers' dispute reflected the complexities and frustrations of the national debate over reopening schools. Republicans proposed several variations of the same idea: to limit funding to schools that don't reopen. Rep. Gregory Murphy, R-N.C., sought to block funding from schools unless they bring at least high-needs students back to the classroom.“We need to stop the excuses," Murphy said. "We need to stop all the nonsense. We need to get our kids back in school. Stop ruining their futures and stop playing games.”Scott countered that schools can't make changes needed to reopen safely unless they get the funding in Biden's plan.Republicans also signaled a fight over standardized testing, backing a proposed change to prevent relief funding from being used on academic assessments. Republicans say states should be exempt from federally required tests this spring because of the pandemic, while some Democrats say it's necessary to identify and help students who have fallen behind.The $350 billion portion of the bill before the committee also includes Biden's plan to raise the minimum wage from $7.25, where is has been since 2009. The proposal calls for gradual increases that would reach $15 over five years. It faces an uphill climb, however, and even Biden has said it likely won’t survive.Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y., told reporters Tuesday that Democrats were trying to overcome a potential procedural obstacle that could prevent them from including the wage increase in the COVID-19 relief bill.“We’re trying to work as well as we can with the parliamentarian to get minimum wage to happen,” Schumer said.Under Senate rules, provisions cannot be included in the special procedure Democrats are using if the language’s impact on the budget is only secondary to its main thrust. It is up to the chamber’s nonpartisan parliamentarian to determine that, though it would be possible for Democrats to vote to ignore that ruling. The fast-track process Democrats are using would let them prevent a GOP filibuster.The minimum wage boost faces other significant challenges, including opposition from Republicans and a wariness by some Democrats arguing it would hurt small businesses, especially during a pandemic.Also on Tuesday, Biden met with five business leaders, including the heads of JPMorgan Chase, Walmart, Gap, Lowe’s and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce.Biden said the meeting was a chance to find common ground with the business community.“We’re going to talk about the state of the economy, the recovery package. We’re going talk a little bit, God willing, about infrastructure down the road, and also about the minimum wage,” Biden said at the start of the meeting.The president said he has been “exchanging correspondence and telephone calls with Republicans to see if we can follow up beyond where we are with members of House and Senate,” even as Congress is moving forward with a budgetary process that will enable them to pass the relief package along party lines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/democrats-attempt-to-push-through-school-funding-wage-increase-101612939404638.html
10-02-2021||World||Joe Biden to visit a Pentagon hoping to shift from Trump 'turmoil'||President Joe Biden is making his first visit to the Pentagon as commander in chief, taking stock of a military as it pivots from the turmoil of the Trump years and focuses to an unusual degree on domestic and internal issues.Biden planned to meet Wednesday afternoon with senior civilian and military leaders and address the Pentagon workforce.As defense leaders await direction from Biden on possible new approaches to overseas security threats, Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin is treating the coronavirus pandemic as a top priority and ordering fresh assessments of how to root out sexual assault and extremism in the military's ranks.Austin himself is in the spotlight after winning Senate confirmation as only the third recently retired military officer to lead the Pentagon. Critics have questioned whether his appointment, which required a congressional waiver, weakens the principle of civilian control of the military.Austin moved quickly to surround himself with a core of civilian assistants, including Kelly Magsamen, a defense policy expert and former Pentagon official who is now his chief of staff. The deputy defense secretary is Kathleen Hicks, a policy expert and the first woman to win Senate confirmation for that position.Austin spent 41 years in the Army, retiring in 2016 as a four-star general after heading US Central Command. During Biden's years as vice president in the Obama administration, he worked with Austin on winding down U.S. involvement in Iraq, where Austin was the top commander in 2010-11.During the Trump administration, the Pentagon endured a loss of top-flight civilian talent, in part because of instability at the top. Trump had two Senate-confirmed defense secretaries, as well as three secretaries who held the role in an acting capacity. Morale suffered and some senior positions went unfilled.Biden had considered choosing Michele Flournoy to lead the Pentagon; she would have been the first woman in that job. Instead he picked Austin, who is the first Black defense secretary and in Biden's view is the right person at a time of evolving security threats and continuing risk from the coronavirus.On his first day in office, Austin issued a message to the force that emphasized his commitment to finding ways the military can help the government move “further and faster” to fight the pandemic. Already there are more than 24,000 National Guard members providing logistical support for the vaccine program and giving as many as 50,000 shots per day.Last week, the Pentagon announced it will deploy more than 1,100 troops to five vaccination centers at the request of the Federal Emergency Management Agency. This marks the first wave of increased military support for the national vaccination campaign. The military is preparing to deploy the first team of about 222 service members to a vaccination center in California, and it says it is ready to deploy four similar teams to other centers when FEMA is ready. FEMA has asked the Pentagon to supply as many as 10,000 troops to staff 100 centers, but Austin is approving the teams incrementally as the locations are identified.Austin also is pushing for policy adjustments to account for the effects of climate change on military missions, as well as the consequences of extreme weather events on domestic military bases.Austin is preparing to address other Biden priorities, including an assessment of how to deal with the national security challenges posed by China's modernized and more assertive military. He has said he intends to visit the Asia-Pacific region as early in his tenure as possible.The Pentagon is participating in an administration assessment of the peace deal the Trump administration struck with the Taliban one year ago. The deal requires the United States to withdraw all of its troops from Afghanistan by May, a deadline the Biden administration is reassessing.Austin also is launching a broad review of how US forces are positioned around the world. In announcing his “global force posture review” last week, he said it will assess the military “footprint, resources, strategy and missions.”On the home front, Austin has inherited the aftereffects of the Jan. 6 insurrection on Capitol Hill. On Inauguration Day, there were about 26,000 National Guard troops in Washington providing security, though the number as of Tuesday had dropped to 6,200. The number is expected to drop to about 5,000 by the end of the month, with the remainder gone by mid-March.In addition to his ordered reviews of sexual assault programs and extremism in the ranks, Austin has launched a review of all defense advisory panels as part of a move to purge several dozen people who were last-minute appointments in the final weeks of the Trump administration. (AP) AMS||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-to-visit-a-pentagon-hoping-to-shift-from-trump-turmoil-101612942311971.html
10-02-2021||World||Covid-19: Vital to learn as much about the earliest outbreak days says US||It is imperative that the world learns as much as possible about the earliest days of the Covid-19 pandemic so that the world can understand its origins and prevent future biological catastrophes, the US has said after international experts investigating the origins of the disease have dismissed as unlikely a theory that the virus came from a laboratory in China.The US, which is the worst affected country from the pandemic, is looking forward to receiving the report and the data from the investigation by the World Health Organisation's (WHO) team of experts into the origins of the Covid-19 in China's Wuhan city.The WHO experts arrived in China last month for the long-awaited probe into the origins of the deadly coronavirus pandemic. On Tuesday, the team dismissed that the virus could have leaked from a Chinese lab, a theory strongly supported by former US president Donald Trump.The team members said that the deadly virus was most likely to have transmitted from an animal to humans.“Broadly speaking, we have expressed our concerns regarding the need for full transparency and access from China and the WHO to all information regarding the earliest days of the pandemic," State Department Spokesperson Ned Price told reporters on Tuesday at his daily news conference.Also read| Joe Biden withdraws US policy to track Chinese influence in American schools"It's imperative that the world learns as much as possible about the earliest days of the Covid-19 pandemic so that we can understand its origins and so, importantly, we can prevent future biological catastrophes,” Price said.“I think the jury is still out. Clearly, the Chinese, at least heretofore, had not offered the requisite transparency that we need and that just as importantly, again, the international community needs so that we can prevent these sorts of pandemics from ever happening again. This goes back to one of the very first actions that President (Joe) Biden took as president when he re-engaged with the WHO,” Price said.China reported the first Covid-19 case in the central Chinese city of Wuhan and since then the disease has snowballed into a pandemic, affecting 106,880,652 people with 2,339,991 deaths worldwide.According to Johns Hopkins coronavirus tracker, the US alone has reported 27,189,188 cases and 468,103 deaths from the deadly virus.Trump had repeatedly blamed China for covering up and not sharing information about the virus with the world, leading to a strain in relation between the two countries.Also read| US closely monitoring India-China border disputes: State DeptHowever, China has refuted the allegations. While denying that coronavirus originated in Wuhan, China points to reports from Italy, Spain and the US about its prevalence to predating its emergence in Wuhan.At the state department briefing, Price highlighted the importance of international cooperation in preventing future outbreaks of diseases.“We know that there needs to be international cooperation if we are going to be able to be in a position to staunch future outbreaks or epidemics before they become pandemics. The WHO is leading this investigation. We clearly support this investigation."We recognise there is an urgent need for an investigation. But I wouldn't want to be conclusive yet about any sort of cooperation that the WHO may or may not have received from China,” Price said in response to a question.The United States, he said, is supportive of the WHO investigation.Also read| Senate votes to proceed with Trump’s trial“And I think more broadly too, we can speak to our own efforts. We will work with our partners and also draw on information collected and analysed by our own intelligence community to evaluate the report once we've received it as well as the data from the WHO evaluation,” he said.Price said that rather than rush to conclusions that may be motivated by anything other than the science, the US wants to see where that data leads us, where that science leads us, and its conclusions will be predicated on that.“We are talking in this case about the origins of the coronavirus. I don't think there is any reasonable person who would argue that the coronavirus originated elsewhere, so that is why our focus is on this WHO investigation."We look forward, again, to seeing the report, to seeing the underlying data, to using what we may have within our own reach based on our own intelligence and analysis to corroborate what the WHO has found and to reach our own conclusions,” Price said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-vital-to-learn-as-much-about-the-earliest-outbreak-days-says-us-101612933896522.html
10-02-2021||World||South Korea to approve AstraZeneca as first Covid-19 vaccine||South Korea on Wednesday said it would grant its first approval for a coronavirus vaccine to AstraZeneca, and will allow use in people 65 years or older, despite advisory panels' warning of a lack of data on its efficacy for the elderlyRegulators will grant AstraZeneca's vaccine emergency authorisation under the condition the company must submit its full clinical trial results, Vice Health Minister Kim Gang-lip told a news conference."However, we have added a precautionary line for cautious decision for use of the shots the elderly aged 65 and older," Kim said.Several European countries have warned that the shot should only be given to those ages 18 to 64, and such concerns had threatened to upend South Korea's plan to prioritise elderly residents and medical workers in the first round of vaccinations.On Monday, authorities sought to reassure elderly residents after a panel of advisers urged caution over the use of the AstraZeneca vaccine for people older than 65 because of a lack of data.AstraZeneca and the chief of clinical trials for Britain's Oxford University, which co-developed the vaccine, have said it triggers a good immune response in older people.The approved doses for South Korea are produced by SK bioscience, the drugmaking arm of SK Chemicals, Kim said.The Korea Disease Control and Prevention Agency (KDCA) had said vaccinations will begin on Feb. 26 with about 1.5 million doses of AstraZeneca vaccines, enough for 750,000 people. It will inoculate about 10 million high-risk people by July and aim to reach herd immunity by November.The ministry has asked to receive by April final clinical trial results from AstraZeneca's survey in the United States on about 30,000 people. The study includes around 7,500 elderly people, Kim said.He added that the KDCA is reviewing the efficacy of the AstraZeneca-Oxford shot on new UK or South African variants, after uncertainty over protection. Oxford had said its vaccine has similar efficacy against the British coronavirus variant as it does to the previously circulating variants.The KDCA reported 444 new Covid-19 cases by Tuesday, bringing the total number of infections to 81,930, with 1,486 deaths. The daily cases rebounded above 400 ahead of the Lunar New Year holiday, boosted by cluster infections mostly in near the capital Seoul.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/south-korea-to-approve-astrazeneca-as-first-covid-19-vaccine-101612939450636.html
10-02-2021||World||Putin’s hopes for economic revival threatened by worker shortage||Vladimir Putin’s hopes of getting his economy growing again quickly are likely to be dashed by Russia’s shrinking workforce.Employers, especially in construction, are struggling to find enough people to fill jobs because coronavirus restrictions have halved the number of immigrants. Companies ranging from gold miners to builders say they’ve been forced to push up wages to attract locals.Almost half of construction companies surveyed by the national builders union said they have increased pay. MIC Group, a Moscow-based constructor, has hiked wages by as much as 15% on average and that’s helped bring in more staff, said Andrey Ryabinskiy, head of the board of directors.“It was hard enough to find qualified workers before the pandemic, but now we’re feeling it much more,” he said.The Kremlin is relying on a rapid recovery from the pandemic to quell growing discontent over falling incomes and rising consumer prices. Despite the success of its Sputnik vaccine, Russia is behind on its ambition to inoculate 60% of the population by the middle of the year.Russia has already lifted most of its coronavirus restrictions and a recent rally in oil prices should help an economic rebound kick in as soon as the second quarter, but the pace of growth could be limited without an ample supply of workers. A shrinking labor force could shave about 25 basis points off potential growth every year for the next decade, according to Bloomberg Economics.Russia usually relies on an army of laborers from other parts of the former Soviet Union to help meet the increased demand when the economy picks up, but most borders have been closed for almost a year.Migrant workers usually make up about 7% of Russia’s workforce and contribute to about 6% of gross domestic product, according to Evgeny Vinokurov, chief economist at the Eurasian Development Bank.“Construction sites are still noticing the shortage of workers, despite the fact that they increased wages,” said Anton Glushkov, president of the Nostroi, the national builders union. “This will ultimately result in an increased cost of construction.”Russia’s already shrinking workforce has also taken a hit from the third-highest Covid-19 death toll in the world last year. The population shrank by almost 700,000 people in 2020, the biggest annual slump in 15 years.Older people may choose not to reenter the workforce immediately due to increased health risks, according to Sofya Donets, chief economist at Renaissance Capital in Moscow.“The pandemic has increased demand for workers in key sectors, even as restrictions limit the flow of people. In the long term, the workforce is shrinking, and that will be a more structural drag on growth once the economy recovers.”Scott Johnson, Bloomberg Economics.Migrants are in such high demand that they made more money on average than Russians in the fourth quarter of last year, according to research by Evgeni Varshaver at the Russian Presidential Academy of National Economy and Public Administration. They earned on average 47,000 rubles ($630) a month, compared to 34,000 rubles for Russians.Mass vaccinations and border re-openings would help smooth out the bottleneck, but neither are expected in the coming months. Meanwhile, many Central Asian nations, which are a big source of migrant labor, don’t yet have access to any vaccine.“One of the main outcomes of the pandemic for Russia’s labor market will be a continuing decline in supply, which will keep pressure on wages,” Donets said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/putins-hopes-for-economic-revival-threatened-by-worker-shortage-101612933811381.html
10-02-2021||World||Indonesian authorities to brief relatives before releasing Sriwijaya Air crash report||Indonesia's air accident investigator will brief relatives of the 62 victims of last month's Sriwijaya Air crash in Jakarta on Wednesday morning ahead of the release of a preliminary report in the afternoon, a family member told Reuters.The briefing follows one held for families on Tuesday in Pontianak, the doomed flight's destination, and comes as divers search for the missing memory unit from the plane's cockpit voice recorder.The 26-year-old Boeing Co 737-500 jet crashed into the Java Sea shortly after take-off from Jakarta, marking Indonesia's third major airline crash in just over six years and shining a spotlight on the country's poor air safety record.Rafik Alaydrus, whose wife died in the crash, said investigators on Tuesday told family members that the cause had not been determined but that various factors, including the plane's autothrottle system, were being investigated."For family of victims, we do not understand about technical issues," he said. "We responded this incident had happened and the victims should get their right compensation."Investigators quickly located and read the plane's flight data recorder (FDR) and sent parts of the plane, including the autothrottle system that controls engine power automatically, to the United States and Britain for examination.Citing sources close to the investigation, the Wall Street Journal last month reported the FDR data showed the autothrottle system was not operating properly on one of the plane's engines as it left Jakarta.Instead of shutting off the system, the FDR indicated the pilots tried to get the stuck throttle to function, the WSJ said. That could create significant differences in power between engines, making the jet harder to control.National Transportation Safety Committee (KNKT) Chief Soerjanto Tjahjono last week said that the WSJ report was incorrect and that more information would be provided in KNKT's preliminary report.Safety experts say most air accidents are caused by a combination of factors that can take months to establish. Under international standards, the final report is due within a year of the crash.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indonesian-authorities-to-brief-relatives-before-releasing-crash-report-101612927804145.html
10-02-2021||World||China poses serious threat to Canada’s security, says Canadian spy agency chief||The head of the Canadian spy agency has publicly accused China of “pursuing a strategy for geopolitical advantage on all fronts” that poses a “direct threat” to Canada’s “national security and sovereignty”.“It is no secret that we are most concerned about the actions by the governments of countries like Russia and China,” said David Vigneault, director of Canadian Security Intelligence Service (CSIS). Vigneault made these remarks during a speech to the Centre for International Governance Innovation. The text of the speech was also released by the Canadian government.Canada and China have not been on the best of terms in recent years, especially since the arrest of Huawei’s CFO Meng Wanzhou in Vancouver in December 2018. While Vigneault did say that China was an important global actor and a partner for Canada on some important fronts, he outlined the cause for concern, stressing, “To be clear, the threat does not come from the Chinese people, but rather the government of China that is pursuing a strategy for geopolitical advantage on all fronts - economic, technological, political, and military - and using all elements of state power to carry out activities that are a direct threat to our national security and sovereignty. We all must strengthen our defences.”He said Beijing’s Operation Fox Hunt “claims to target corruption but is also believed to have been used to target and quiet dissidents to the regime”.Vigneault went on to add that “these activities are different from the norms of diplomatic activity because they cross the line by attempting to undermine our democratic processes or threaten our citizens in a covert and clandestine manner”.The CSIS chief also said that hostile state actors seek to leverage all elements of state power to advance their interests, and “this has accelerated” during the Covid-19 pandemic.He said that while traditionally spies worked to gather Canada’s military, diplomatic and political secrets, “adversaries are more focused on intellectual property and advanced research”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-poses-serious-threat-to-canada-s-security-warns-canadian-spy-agency-chief-101612938961970.html
10-02-2021||World||As Trump trial opens, Democrat recalls daughter's fear during riot||The leader of the Democratic team prosecuting Donald Trump's impeachment trial welled up in tears on Tuesday as he recalled his 24-year-old daughter and son-in-law hiding in fear in the U.S. Capitol during the rampage by the former president's supporters.U.S. Representative Jamie Raskin, now in his third two-year term representing parts of Maryland and a constitutional law expert, was defending the legality of considering impeachment charges against a former president.When he invited his family to witness the Jan. 6 joint session of Congress to certify Democrat Joe Biden's presidential election victory, Raskin, 58, was also mourning the Dec. 31 death of his 25-year-old son.He said his daughter had asked whether they would be safe visiting on Jan. 6, after hearing of plans by thousands of Trump supporters to descend on Washington to try to stop the normally routine proceeding."I told them, of course it should be safe. This is the Capitol," Raskin said as he wrapped up his opening argument.But when the mob breached the Capitol, in a violent assault that left a Capitol Police officer and four other people dead, his daughter Tabitha and other family members were left to huddle in an office off the floor of the House of Representatives.Raskin said when he finally was reunited with his daughter and son-in-law, he apologized to them and promised things would be better on their next visit."And you know what she said? She said, 'Dad, I don't want to come back to the Capitol,'" the congressman recalled.With the Senate's 100 members pausing from their note taking and fiddling with papers on their desks, they locked onto Raskin as he spoke tearfully of his daughter's fear.At times barely able to speak, he wrapped up his opening statement to the Senate, saying, "Of all the terrible things I saw ... that one hit me the hardest. That and watching someone use an American flag pole, the flag still on it, to spear and pummel one of our police officers."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/as-trump-trial-opens-democrat-recalls-daughter-s-fear-during-riot-101612935560731.html
10-02-2021||World||US Senate votes to proceed with Donald Trump’s impeachment trial||The US Senate on Tuesday voted 56-44 to proceed with the impeachment trial of former president Donald Trump, rejecting his defence team’s contention that it is not constitutional to try a president after he has left office.Six Republicans joined 50 Democrats in the evenly split 100-member Senate, clearing the way for the trial to begin on Wednesday. House impeachment managers — nine Democratic members of the House of Representatives — will make their case for Trump’s conviction for inciting an insurrection at the US Capitol on January 6. They have 16 hours to make their case, spanning the next two days. Trump’s defence team will follow, also for 16 hours.“Their argument is that if you commit an impeachable offence in your last few weeks in office, you do it with constitutional impunity,” Representative Jamie Raskin, the lead House manager, said while opening the arguments. He was referring to the Trump defence team’s contention that a president cannot be tried after leaving office. He said, “You get away with it. In other words, conduct that would be a high crime and misdemeanor in your first year as president, and your second year as president, and your third year as president, and for the vast majority of your fourth year as president, you can suddenly do in your last few weeks in office without facing any constitutional accountability at all.”He added, “This would create a brand new January exception to the constitution of the United States of America.”Raskin later returned during the arguments by Democrats, making an emotional appeal, “Senators, this cannot be our future. This cannot be the future of America.”Democrats also cited precedence from US and British history of senior officials impeached or tried after leaving office. William Belknap, a former US secretary of war, was impeached after leaving office in 1876, but was acquitted. Warren Hastings, the governor general of Bengal during the reign of the East India Company, faced impeachment proceedings in 1786 after leaving service, and was acquitted in a trial that went on from 1788 to 1795.Trump’s lawyers - Bruce Castor and David Schoen - condemned the January 6 violence at the Capitol, but they argued it is unconstitutional to try a president who is no longer in office. They contended that the case against Trump is based on partisan politics and also said that Democrats had been obsessed with impeaching him. “This trial will tear this country apart, perhaps like we have only seen once before in our history,” said Schoen, referring to the American civil war.Trump’s lawyers, especially Castor, were criticised for their underwhelming performance, even by Republicans. “President Trump’s team was disorganised. They did everything they could but to talk about the question at hand. And when they talked about it, they kind of glided over, almost as if they were embarrassed,” said Senator Bill Cassidy, one of six Republicans who voted to hold the trial constitutional.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/senate-votes-to-proceed-with-trump-s-trial-101612935121639.html
10-02-2021||World||Indonesia: Boeing engine-control system in focus in Sriwijaya air crash probe||The investigation into last month’s Sriwijaya Air crash in Indonesia is focusing on the engine-control system of the Boeing Co. 737-500 jet, potentially dealing another blow to the US manufacturing giant as it emerges from the global grounding of its 737 Max following two other fatal crashes.While Indonesia’s National Transportation Safety Committee is still trying to determine the exact cause of the crash, the left engine throttle lever was trimming back the power output just before the 26-year-old jet plunged into the sea, according to a family member who attended a briefing given by the regulator in Jakarta on Tuesday.“The NTSC hasn’t reached any conclusion on the cause of the crash, but they did say that there was an uncommanded backward movement of the left throttle lever while the autopilot was in operation,” said Rafik Alaydrus, who lost his wife in the disaster.NTSC Chairman Soerjanto Tjahjono and lead investigator Nurcahyo Utomo didn’t immediately respond to messages and calls seeking comment. A representative for Boeing also didn’t immediately respond to an emailed request for comment. The NTSC is due to issue its preliminary report on Wednesday.A person familiar with the investigation told Bloomberg News last month that a malfunctioning automatic throttle was being considered as a reason for the pilots losing control by producing more thrust in one of the two engines. The device had been having problems on previous flights, according to the person. Unequal thrust can cause a plane to roll onto its side and descend abruptly.Sriwijaya Air Flight 182 crashed into the Java Sea four minutes after takeoff from Jakarta’s main airport on Jan. 9, killing all 62 people on board. Searchers retrieved the flight-data recorder from the jet, but the memory module of the cockpit-voice recorder still hasn’t been found.The jet nosedived more than 10,000 feet (3,050 meters) in about 15 seconds, according to tracker Flightradar24. The NTSC had said that both engines appear to have been functioning prior to the plane hitting the water.“An auto-throttle issue shouldn’t crash the aircraft unless it is combined with several other problems or factors, because the crew could simply just switch it off,” Jakarta-based aviation analyst Gerry Soejatman said.The pilots were experienced and flying an aircraft with a relatively good safety record. Sriwijaya Air, despite being little known outside of Indonesia, has a solid history too, with no fatal crashes since its establishment in 2003.But the crash was yet another blight on Indonesia’s poor aviation safety record, with two other major tragedies in recent years. In 2014, an AirAsia jetliner carrying 162 people went down in the Java Sea, killing all on board, and then in 2018 a Lion Air crash in the same waters claimed 189 lives.The aircraft in the Lion Air crash was a Boeing 737 Max, which was grounded worldwide following another crash in Ethiopia the following March. Safety regulators are only just lifting their ban on the Max, which started flying again in countries including the US and Brazil at the end of last year. The grounding is still in place in several places, including China and Indonesia.Boeing’s 737-500 has been involved in eight hull-loss accidents -- where the aircraft isn’t repairable, according to Aviation Safety Network. The Sriwijaya Air crash was the third-deadliest involving the plane. Eighty-eight people were killed in a 2008 Aeroflot crash and another 68 died in an Asiana Airlines disaster in 1993. Investigators linked those to factors including pilot performance, training and weather.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indonesia-boeing-engine-control-system-in-focus-in-sriwijaya-air-crash-probe-101612934553500.html
10-02-2021||World||Joe Biden withdraws US policy to track Chinese influence in American schools||The Biden administration has withdrawn from Trump's policy on tracking Chinese influence in US schools and universities, reported Daily Caller.Chuck Ross, writing for the publication, informed that the Biden administration has quietly withdrawn from the proposed rule to the Department of Homeland Security on December 31, 2020, entitled "Establishing Requirement for Student and Exchange Visitor Program Certified Schools to Disclose Agreements with Confucius Institutes and Classrooms."The rule requires American schools and universities to disclose their partnerships with Confucius Institutes, which allegedly are front groups for Chinese Communist Party propaganda according to some US officials.As per Daily Caller, around 500 K-12 schools and 65 colleges have a partnership with Confucius Institute US Center, a US-based affiliate of the Beijing-based Confucius Institute Headquarters. The institute, also known as Hanban, is affiliated with the Chinese Ministry of Education.Earlier, the Daily Caller had reported that many of Hanban's directors were members of the Chinese Communist Party.As per the information at RegInfo.gov, the website for the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs (OIRA), which operates under the Office of Management and Budget and the White House, the Biden administration has withdrawn from the consideration on January 26.Meanwhile, the OIRA website has not provided any other information about the move.Also, a spokesperson for Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE), a component of DHS, confirmed the withdrawal of the rule.The spokesperson did not elaborate on the reason for withdrawing the rule and declined to speculate on whether the Biden administration will re-submit it."ICE does not speculate about future pre-decisional proposed rules or policies," the spokesperson told The Daily Caller News Foundation.In August, the Trump administration had labelled the Confucius Institutes US Center a "foreign mission" of the Chinese Communist Party.The officials too had said that the Chinese government used the Confucius Institutes as part of its propaganda and influence efforts in the US.Trump administration's, Secretary of State, Mike Pompeo too had said on August 13 that the Confucius Institute was "an entity controlled by the PRC that advances Beijing's global propaganda and malign influence campaign on US campuses and K-12 classrooms."The Confucius Institute US is yet to comment on the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-withdraws-us-policy-to-track-chinese-influence-in-american-schools-101612932697599.html
10-02-2021||World||Michigan GOP leader who called Capitol riot a 'hoax,' apologises||A Republican legislative leader in Michigan apologised Tuesday after falsely claiming supporters of President Donald Trump were not involved in the deadly attack at the U.S. Capitol, having called it a "hoax."Senate Majority Leader Mike Shirkey made the remarks last Wednesday while meeting with leaders of the Hillsdale County GOP, according to a video posted on YouTube by a group called Reclaim Our American Republic."I said some things in a videoed conversation that are not fitting for the role I am privileged to serve," he said in a statement. "I own that. I have many flaws. Being passionate coupled with an occasional lapse in restraint of tongue are at least two of them. I regret the words I chose, and I apologize for my insensitive comments."The statement did not specify the remarks for which he was apologising.In the contentious meeting, three Republicans spoke with Shirkey at a restaurant a day before the Hillsdale County Republican Party's executive board censured him for a number of reasons, including backing a ban on the open carry of guns into the Statehouse and allegedly not doing enough to fight Democratic Gov. Gretchen Whitmer's COVID-19 restrictions.At one point, a participant who said he was at the Jan. 6 protest in Washington, D.C., asked Shirkey about it.Also read: Indian-American groups condemn attack on US CapitolHe responded: "That wasn't Trump people. That's been a hoax from day one. That was all prearranged."Another participant, who also said he had been in D.C., suggested that police tear-gassed "their own guards."Shirkey said: "Why wasn't there more security there? It was ridiculous. It was all staged," claiming that then-Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell "was part of it. ...They wanted to have a mess." He added that some Trump backers "probably got caught up in the emotion" of the mob.The siege of the Capitol stunned the world as hundreds of Trump supporters ransacked the building to try to stop the certification of Joe Biden's victory. Five people died, including a police officer.Jon Smith, the Hillsdale County GOP's secretary, told The Associated Press that he recorded the hour-long conversation with a phone in his pocket because he was worried Shirkey would lie. It was unclear whether Shirkey knew he was being recorded.Hillsdale County is one of three south-central Michigan counties Shirkey represents in the Senate.Senate Minority Leader Jim Ananich, a Flint Democrat, said "it is past time to accept the facts. On Jan. 6, 2021, there was an insurrection at the U.S. Capitol. Republicans need to decide for themselves if they are going to hold their leaders accountable for spreading lies."Shirkey was among seven Michigan lawmakers who met with Trump at the White House after the election amid the president's extraordinary efforts to subvert the democratic process that handed the battleground state to Biden. He said he and then-House Speaker Lee Chatfield told Trump that state law did not give the Legislature a say in awarding Michigan's 16 electoral votes. Days later, the state elections board certified Biden's victory.Shirkey has faced criticism from Democrats for meeting with militia leaders last May, weeks after armed protesters had entered the Capitol to object to a coronavirus lockdown — some blocked by police while demanding entry onto the House floor, others shouting down from the Senate gallery. Shirkey, who called some demonstrators "jackasses," has said he challenged the groups to develop a "code of conduct" so they could protest safely.Some of the men who carried guns at protests against Whitmer's stay-at-home order last spring, including one at which Shirkey spoke, were later charged in a plot to kidnap her.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/michigan-gop-leader-who-called-capitol-riot-a-hoax-apologises-101612929431871.html
10-02-2021||World||Key takeaways from Day 1 of Trump’s second impeachment trial||Former President Donald Trump’s second impeachment trial began on Tuesday with House impeachment managers and Trump’s defense team clashing over whether the Constitution allowed the Senate to hold a trial of a former president or not, ultimately deciding it could move forward. Trump is facing the charge of inciting insurrection following a January 6 speech, two weeks before leaving office, to thousands of supporters urging them to fight against his election defeat. Following the speech, hundreds of Trump supporters stormed the US Capitol, fighting police and sending lawmakers running for safety. The first impeachment trial of Trump, in which the articles of impeachment charged him with abuse of power and obstruction of Congress, started on January 16,2020 and concluded with his acquittal on February 5. The Senate kicked off Trump's second impeachment trial with Democrats using a 13-minute video of the Capitol riot violence to build their case.Here are the key takeaways from day 1 of Trump’s second impeachment trial:Senate decided that a trial can be held to impeach a former PresidentTrump’s defense team consistently argued that a former president cannot be impeached but the impeachment managers argued that if the trial is dismissed, it would set a bad precedent for future Presidents as they could act without consequences in the last weeks of their administrations. Six Republicans joined all 50 Democrats in deciding that the Senate could proceed with the trial.Democrats showed video footage of the events of January 6In order to fortify their argument against the former President, Democrats used a 13-minute video of scenes from the January 6 assault on the Capitol. The video showed scenes of chaos and mobs of protesters violently pushing past security barricades.Senator Patrick LeahyAs the longest-serving Democrat in the Senate, Leahy became the presiding officer in the Senate’s trial of Trump after Chief Justice John Roberts who had served this role for Trump’s first impeachment trial backed out from the trial this time. Leahy was witness to the violence in Capitol Hill because of which Trump’s defense team argued unsuccessfully that he had a conflict of interest in the trial.Outcome of the trial could be similar to the first oneEven though Democrats are in the majority in the Senate, Trump could be ultimately acquitted, just like in the first trial as the Democrats need 17 Republicans to break with the former president and vote with them to have the two-thirds necessary to convict Trump. If the six Republican senators who voted with Democrats on Tuesday on the Senate’s right to hold the trial also vote to convict Trump, Democrats would still need 11 more Republican defectors to secure a conviction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/key-takeaways-from-day-1-of-trump-s-second-impeachment-trial-101612930989763.html
10-02-2021||World||Five Republicans who said Trump's impeachment trial is constitutional||Donald Trump's impeachment trial will open on Tuesday with a debate about whether the US Constitution allows a former president to face trial after he has left office. A similar effort led by Republican Senator Rand Paul last month drew the support of 45 fellow Senate Republicans.Here's a look at the five Senate Republicans who voted that the trial was constitutional:BEN SASSEThe Nebraska senator handily won reelection in 2020 and is considered a potential contender for the 2024 Republican presidential nomination. He publicly denounced Trump's false claims of widespread electoral fraud and said there was no basis to object to Democrat Joe Biden's Nov. 3 victory.LISA MURKOWSKIMurkowski of Alaska became the first U.S. senator in 50 years to win an election with a write-in campaign in 2010 after losing in the Republican primary. She called for Trump to resign after his followers rioted at the U.S. Capitol on Jan. 6 to disrupt the formal certification of the election by Congress.MITT ROMNEYRomney, a Utah senator and the 2012 Republican presidential candidate, has been a vocal critic of Trump. In 2020, Romney was the only Republican senator to vote for conviction during Trump's first impeachment trial.PAT TOOMEYThe Pennsylvania senator announced in October 2020 he would not be seeking re-election. He said in television interviews Trump committed "impeachable offenses" and called on him to resign after the Jan. 6 attack.SUSAN COLLINSThe Maine centrist was the only Republican senator re-elected in 2020 in a state also won by Biden. She said Trump had incited the Jan. 6 riot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/five-republicans-who-said-trump-s-impeachment-trial-is-constitutional-101612923427979.html
10-02-2021||World||Covid-19: Combined trials of Sputnik V, Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine to begin soon||World’s first clinical trials of Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine combination of Sputnik V and the Oxford–AstraZeneca are to begin in former soviet republic Azerbaijan by February-end.The Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF), which is Russia’s sovereign wealth fund, has announced that the ministry of health of the republic of Azerbaijan has issued a permit on February 8 to conduct clinical trials in the country of a combined use of Sputnik V and the vaccine developed jointly by AstraZeneca and Oxford University. According to an official statement issued by RDIF, clinical trials will begin by the end of February. RDIF, The Gamaleya Center, AstraZeneca and R-Pharm had earlier signed a Memorandum of Intent aimed at cooperation in vaccine development, which was announced in December 2020 during a meeting with Russian President Vladimir Putin. Also Read | India’s daily Covid-19 toll below 100, here’s which states are contributing mostThe world’s first combined vaccine use will be conducted in line with clinical trials protocol registered on December 24, 2020. “The study will allow evaluating the immunogenicity and safety of the combined use of Sputnik V and the vaccine jointly developed by AstraZeneca and Oxford University,” said the statement.The research will be carried out over the course of six months in several countries with 100 volunteers recruited in each.“We need to join our international efforts and use the most advanced solutions to defeat the coronavirus. A publication in the leading peer-reviewed medical journal, The Lancet, showed Sputnik V to be 91.6% efficacious. It is only one of three vaccines in the world with efficacy of over 90%,” said Kirill Dmitriev, CEO, RDIF.“We are ready to develop cooperation with other manufacturers to increase the number of affordable and effective vaccines. The partnership for the clinical study of the combination of the AZD1222 vaccine with the adenoviral vector Ad26 of the Sputnik V vaccine has become the first and very important example of such cooperation in the world,” he added.According to the vaccine developers, Sputnik V vaccine uses the unique technology of combining two different vectors based on human adenovirus, which allows for a stronger and longer-term immune response compared to vaccines using the same vector for two shots.The regimen with two different adenoviral vectors for a prime and a boost immunisation helps to avoid immunity to the first vector, which is formed after the first inoculation, and thus to raise efficacy of the second inoculation and create long-term immunity. This regimen is one of the reasons why the vaccine shows efficacy of over 90%, with full protection against severe cases. The AstraZeneca vaccine was developed by the University of Oxford in conjunction with Vaccitech. It uses a replication-defective chimpanzee viral vector based on an attenuated version of the common cold virus (adenovirus) that causes infection in chimpanzees, and contains genetic material from the SARS-CoV-2 (severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2) spike protein.“R-Pharm has been actively working with the Republic of Azerbaijan for several years, we opened a modern production facility here in 2019, later in 2020 we registered two drugs from our anti-Covid portfolio: Artlegia and Coronavir. This pilot study is vital for developing of a new approach to the prevention of Covid-19. Moreover, the leading scientific and clinical centres of Azerbaijan will be able to make their own important contribution in this direction,” said Alexey Repik, chairman, board of directors, R-Pharm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-trials-of-sputnik-v-oxford-astrazeneca-vaccine-combination-to-begin-soon-101612929901062.html
10-02-2021||World||'Matter of conscience': Senate minority leader on final vote in Trump trial||Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell is signaling to fellow Republicans that the final vote on Donald Trump‘s impeachment is matter of conscience and that senators who disputed the constitutionality of the trial could still vote to convict the former president, according to three people familiar with his thinking.Also Read | Mitch McConnell open to convicting Donald Trump in impeachment trialThe Kentucky Republican has also suggested that he hasn’t made up his mind how he’ll vote, two of the people said, even though he voted Tuesday to declare it unconstitutional for the Senate to hear the case against a former president.That position is starkly different than McConnell’s declaration at the start of Trump’s first impeachment trial last year that he did not consider himself an impartial juror.Also Read | Trump 'provoked' Capitol siege, says Senate majority leader Mitch McConnellIt’s highly unlikely that the Senate will convict Trump of the House’s single impeachment charge of inciting an insurrection, which cited the former president’s actions surrounding the Jan. 6 attack on the Capitol. Conviction requires a two-thirds majority, which means at least 17 Republicans would have to vote with all Democrats in the 50-50 chamber.Only six Republicans on Tuesday voted in favor of the constitutionality of the Senate process. While that was enough for the simple majority required to proceed with the trial, it suggests that most GOP senators don’t want to vote against Trump.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/matter-of-conscience-senate-minority-leader-on-final-vote-in-trump-trial-101612926618715.html
10-02-2021||World||Single dose of Pfizer vaccine shot gives two-thirds protection, data suggests||One dose of the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine offers two-thirds protection against coronavirus, data seen by the U.K. government suggests.Early findings from the U.K.’s vaccination program, due to be released within days, show that the first dose reduced the symptomatic infection risk among patients by 65% in younger adults and 64% in over-80s, a person familiar with the matter said.The data, first reported by The Sun newspaper, showed that two doses of the Pfizer vaccine saw protection rise to between 79% and 84%, depending on age. The AstraZeneca vaccine offers similar protection, the newspaper said.While efficacy results are lower than those found in Pfizer’s clinical trials, Boris Johnson’s government is likely to hail the U.K.’s first real-world data as a significant boost to its efforts to immunize the population. A successful mass vaccine rollout is key to the government’s hopes of reopening the economy after months of lockdown.More than 12.6 million people in the U.K. have so far received their first doses of either the Pfizer shot or the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine, according to latest data published Tuesday. That includes more than 90% of the over-80s.Johnson has set a target to immunize almost 15 million people by Feb. 15, focusing on the most vulnerable groups and their carers. After that, his team will consider when and how to begin lifting the U.K.’s third national lockdown, which has been in place for the past month and has compounded the economic damage already done by the country’s deepest recession in more than 300 years.From March 8, schools could begin to reopen, followed by the easing of other curbs. But while the U.K.’s vaccine rollout is one of the most advanced in the world, the one big doubt is whether the shots will remain effective against new strains of coronavirus.This week Johnson led efforts to reassure the public that vaccines will still work to prevent the most severe illness and death from the South Africa variant. Some scientists are concerned that the strain is far more widespread in the U.K. and could derail the plan to lift restrictions.Data from the real world rollout of the U.K.’s two vaccines will be critical in determining how fast the government can begin to ease the lockdown.Paul Hunter, professor of medicine at the University of East Anglia, said the early results were “quite amazing” and he believed gradual lifting of the curbs would be possible, starting with schools from early March.“If these numbers are borne out, then they are very reassuring,” Hunter told The Sun. “If they are achieving 65% protection after three weeks with both jabs, then I think that’s really good.”The government has deployed more surge testing of the population in parts of Lambeth, south London, in an attempt to trace and contain the new strain found there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/single-dose-of-pfizer-vaccine-shot-gives-two-thirds-protection-data-suggests-101612919939677.html
10-02-2021||World||GOP senator Cassidy flips on impeachment trial, rips Trump lawyers||Republican Sen. Bill Cassidy of Louisiana joined Democrats in voting against ending Donald Trump's impeachment trial Tuesday, a surprise reversal that Cassidy said was a response to the former president's lawyers doing “a terrible job” of arguing their case.Cassidy was among six Republican senators who sided with Democrats on the question of whether a former president can be tried after leaving office. The Louisiana senator's position was a switch from January, when he voted to end the proceedings on the grounds that they were unconstitutional.The vote drew swift criticism from Republicans in the senator's deeply conservative state. But Cassidy said Trump's attorneys didn't make their case. While the Democrats' impeachment managers were “focused, they were organized,” relying on precedent and legal scholars, Trump's team “was disorganized, random, had nothing," he said."They talked about many things, but they didn't talk about the issue at hand," Cassidy said after the vote.Still, the senator said his decision to move ahead with the trial shouldn't be taken as a sign he will later vote to convict the former president. In recent calls with reporters, including one Tuesday morning, Cassidy has refused to say whether he believes Trump committed an impeachable offense.“I have not yet decided on how I will vote,” he said.Trump is the first president to face impeachment charges after leaving office. The House accused him of inciting an insurrection for his role in the Jan 6. siege on the U.S. Capitol. Hundreds of rioters ransacked the building to try to stop the certification of Democrat Joe Biden’s victory, a domestic attack on the nation’s seat of government unlike any in its history. Five people died.The Republican Party of Louisiana quickly issued a statement Tuesday criticizing Cassidy for his vote and praising Louisiana's junior GOP senator, John Kennedy, for voting against moving ahead with the impeachment trial. The Louisiana GOP said it was “profoundly disappointed” by Cassidy's vote.“We feel that an impeachment trial of a private citizen is not only an unconstitutional act, but also an attack on the very foundation of American democracy, which will have far reaching and unforeseen consequences for our republic,” the party's statement said.Republican Rep. Mike Johnson of Louisiana said he was “surprised” by Cassidy’s vote and suggested it was causing a stir in their ruby red state.“I have not spoken to him, but I can tell you a lot of people from back home are calling me about it right now," Johnson said.Cassidy won reelection this fall to a six-year term, giving him some time to make amends with his party. But he's already received criticism for accepting the Electoral College vote for Biden and for acknowledging the Democratic president's victory weeks ahead of many of his colleagues.A local Republican women's club sent Cassidy a letter in December telling him they felt “betrayed” after he declared Biden had won the presidential election.Kennedy, who is up for reelection next year, has issued statements panning the impeachment trial as unconstitutional and calling it "a thinly veiled effort by the uber-elites in our country, who look down on most Americans, to denigrate further those people who chose to vote for President Trump and not vote for President Biden.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/gop-senator-cassidy-flips-on-impeachment-trial-rips-trump-lawyers-101612917655751.html
10-02-2021||World||For Hong Kongers, Canada is beaten path out of China’s grip||A second generation of Hong Kongers is heading to Canada for refuge from political uncertainty, but unlike their parents in the 1980s and 1990s, this time seems for good.Cities such as Vancouver and Toronto are a magnet for those looking to escape as China tightens its grip on the territory of 7.5 million people. Some 300,000 already have Canadian citizenship after many families initially moved there ahead of Hong Kong's return from British to Chinese rule in 1997.Back then, many families separated, with one parent staying in Hong Kong for work, usually fathers who were dubbed "astronauts" as they soared through the sky on visits. Among those who went to Canada, many eventually returned, lured by the booming economy and what still seemed to be a relatively free environment.Things have changed.With recent pro-democracy protests virtually snuffed out and Beijing enshrining control last year via a national security law, bags are being packed once more."Staying in Hong Kong is not an option anymore," said Maria Law, 39, who moved to Vancouver last year with her two girls ahead of her husband. "I'd rather have a free future for my daughters instead of making money while they have to keep their mouths shut."For Law, a former flight attendant, history has repeated itself.She is part of a rare cohort of double political emigres.Taken to Vancouver when she was 12, Law remembers daily speakerphone calls from the living room with her father, who was earning the family bread as a hotel chef back in Hong Kong.Enthusiasm for the calls waned as it became clear he was staying. Yet like many such "satellite" children, separated from one or both parents, Law eventually followed in her father's footsteps to return to Hong Kong herself for work in 2004."When I was young, I asked my father why I had to move. But now I am in his position, I understand," she said. "He sacrificed more than we did. He's the one who had to be alone."LEARNING FROM MISTAKESThanks to Canada's liberal immigration system, 335,646 Hong Kongers moved there between 1984 when Britain's handover was declared and 1997, according to the Canadian International Council think tank. That was most of the half-million exodus.This time, Britain may take most Hong Kongers as it offers visas to potentially 300,000 people.The flow to Canada may also be large, with existing Canadian passport-holders in Hong Kong from the first wave and new immigration pathways for the younger generation.A Hong Kong government spokesman said concerns about erosion of freedoms were "totally unsubstantiated" and that the security law had stopped chaos. "People's decisions to remain in or leave Hong Kong, or anywhere for that matter, are based on many factors including job situation, schooling, business and investment opportunities or personal/family reasons," he added.China’s Hong Kong and Macau Affairs Office, and the Hong Kong Liaison Office, Beijing's top representative body, did not respond to requests for comment.The scars of the first uprooting are informing the second."I'm not going to make the same mistakes as my parents, like having a satellite family," said Tsang, a 36-year-old legal compliance officer who did not want to give her first name because she was yet to resign from work in Hong Kong.Her parents' marriage did not survive separation, but Tsang hopes to do better. Her daughter and husband move to Vancouver this month and she is to join them after selling their home.In Law's case, she is eagerly waiting for her husband, for whom it is a wrench to leave his wider family and career as a university IT officer, to rejoin the family in Vancouver.In October, she gave him the sponsorship paperwork and urged him not to miss their girls' growing up. To her relief, he returned the forms on Jan. 1. While he waits to travel, he watches his younger daughter's growth spurt via a screen and waits for both girls to say hello before he sleeps.It is hard to track exactly how many Hong Kongers are moving to Canada as so many can travel freely between the two.New visa applications from Hong Kong rose more than 20% to 10,819 in 2020, Canadian immigration says.The Hong Kong government did not have data, but the Security Bureau estimated 7,000 people may have emigrated in 2019, 1,300 to Canada. However, that methodology is based only on applications for documents showing no criminal records, which many departing Hong Kongers do not in fact request.BUNS AND NEWSPAPERS FROM HOMESocial media posts about paperwork, schools, real estate and jobs abound for Hong Kongers returning to Canada.One frequently-asked-questions group by the "Return Vancouver" Facebook page has 5,800 members.Miu Chung Yan, a University of British Columbia professor of social work, and himself from Hong Kong, said those returning to Canada were often giving up better-paying jobs at home but had long known they would return for children's education or retirement.Violent scenes of blazing streets and protesters clashing with police in 2019, plus China's subsequent response, hastened their decision-making.Pre-handover immigrants created ethnic enclaves with strip malls featuring Hong Kong-style cafes, Cantonese-speaking dentists and Chinese supermarkets.In Richmond, a Vancouver suburb, 21.9% of residents counted Cantonese as their first language, followed by 20% for Mandarin, the main language in the rest of China, in a 2016 census.In Markham, just north of Toronto, the vast Pacific Mall shares the same name as Hong Kong's centrally-located Pacific Place shopping centre.Pacific Mall's corridors bear the names of major arteries in Hong Kong, such as Hollywood Road or Hennessy Road.In nearby plazas, those nostalgic for Hong Kong fare can pick up warm pineapple buns with a cold slab of butter and Chinese-language newspapers Sing Tao and Ming Pao.Jason, who plans to move back to Canada with his wife and nine-year-old twins, acknowledges he is "a little bit confused" about his identity.His father moved to Hong Kong during Mao Zedong's rule after four of 10 siblings starved to death in mainland China, he said. His parents sent him to high school in Canada in 1993 at 13.But in 2001, his father's construction company was struggling and he had to drop out of college to return to Hong Kong, where he later became a furniture salesman.Over the years he noticed Hong Kong transforming: the luxury flats he fitted were increasingly owned by mainland Chinese. Mandarin became the more common language with customers in the famous IFC and ICC commercial towers."It's kind of sad," said Jason, who did not give his full name as he is yet to tell his twins about leaving. "Every time I have a gathering with friends or chit-chat with colleagues, the only topic is 'where are you going to live'?"||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/for-hong-kongers-canada-is-beaten-path-out-of-china-s-grip-101612916815782.html
10-02-2021||World||Pakistan faces bleak future with rising food insecurity||Pakistan's future seems vulnerable as it grapples with lower-than-expected levels of food output and is in urgent need to import key food items including edible oil, wheat, sugar, tea and pulses.In an article in The News International, Dr Khaqan Hassan Naqeeb and Dr Yusuf Zafar write that the production of the highly-valued cotton crop has dipped to a level of a 30-year low and the productivity of the five staple crops has slipped to less than half of the world's best. Moreover, recent supply shocks have increased food prices by an average of 31 per cent in the past 29 months.According to a finding by the National Nutritional Survey 2018 conducted by Pakistan's Ministry of Health and Unicef, 36.9 percent of the country's households are food insecure. Children under five years suffering high levels of severe stunting at 40 percent and almost 30 percent of them underweight.A high population growth rate of 2.4 percent, inefficient use of water in the Indus River basin irrigation system; unfavorable climate changes; weak policies and regulations governing markets for agricultural inputs and commodities, all raise the concern of a marked increase in food insecurity, according to The News International.Naqeeb and Zafar write that though Pakistan's agriculture has benefitted from the green revolution, it has however missed on the gene revolution and is currently losing out on the precision agriculture revolution.The conditions of Pakistan's vegetables and fruit markets as well as of grain markets are in dire need of a makeover and the infestation of rodents in grain markets cannot be tolerated as a routine. The country currently suffers an irrecoverable loss of 20 to 40 per cent due to poor transportation and storage and interventions in all these areas are required to improve overall productivity.Furthermore, The News International reported that with a low per capita income of USD 1,497, rising prices and high poverty concentrated in rural areas have made Pakistan struggle with issues of under-nourishment and lack of micronutrients. Limited technological innovation in farming, weak research, trade restrictions and low quality of inputs is also less than desirable.The plight of the agriculture sector had led to insufficient availability of local production of food items and the impact of rising domestic demand. Shortages can have serious repercussions for the country's fiscal and external payments. Pressures will surmount with increasing global food prices, making the laudable objective of food security more distant, wrote the Pakistani daily.Saying that Pakistan cannot afford an unsteady agriculture pulse, Naqeeb and Zafar argue that a radically successful reform effort can lift agricultural productivity, create market efficiency and increase farm incomes.A reconsidered focus on investment and reform of governance especially in agriculture research and regulatory public-sector bodies is also required with the involvement of all the provinces. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistan-faces-bleak-future-with-rising-food-insecurity-101612916783750.html
10-02-2021||World||Myanmar junta cracks down on crowds defying protest ban||Police cracked down on demonstrators opposing Myanmar’s military coup, firing warning shots and shooting water cannons to disperse crowds that took to the streets again Tuesday in defiance of new protest bans.Reports of many injured demonstrators drew strong concern from the U.N.'s office in Myanmar.“According to reports from Nay Pyi Taw, Mandalay and other cities, numerous demonstrators have been injured, some of them seriously, by security forces in connection with the current protests across the country,” the U.N. said.“The use of disproportionate force against demonstrators is unacceptable,” said Ola Almgren, the U.N. resident coordinator in Myanmar.Water cannons were used in Mandalay, Myanmar’s second-biggest city, where witnesses said at least two warning shots were fired in early attempts to break up the crowd. Gunfire could be heard on videos from the city, some of which showed riot police flailing wildly with their batons at people trying to flee. Reports on social media said police arrested more than two dozen people there.Police also used water cannons in the capital, Natpyitaw, for a second day and fired shots into the air. Police were reported to have also shot rubber bullets at the crowd in Naypyitaw, wounding several people. Photos on social media showed an alleged shooter — an officer with a short-barreled gun — and several injured people. Protesters posted photos online of bullet casings they said they found at the scene.Unconfirmed social media reports circulated of shootings with live rounds and deaths among the protesters, with the potential of sparking violent retaliation against the authorities — an outcome proponents of the country’s civil disobedience movement have warned against. The AP was unable to immediately confirm the reports.The weekly magazine 7Day News reported on its Twitter account that a 19-year-old woman was shot by police in Naypyidaw and was undergoing emergency surgery at the city's main hospital. It cited Min Thu, the local chairman of the National League for Democracy party of ousted national leader Aung San Suu Kyi.Security forces on Tuesday night raided the NLD’s national office in Yangon, following raids of regional party offices last week that the party called illegal.The protesters are demanding that power be restored to the deposed civilian government and are seeking freedom for Suu Kyi and other governing party members detained since the military took over and blocked the new session of Parliament from convening on Feb. 1.The growing defiance is striking in a country where past demonstrations have been met with deadly force and are a reminder of previous movements in the Southeast Asian country’s long and bloody struggle for democracy. The military used deadly force to quash a massive 1988 uprising against military dictatorship and a 2007 revolt led by Buddhist monks.The protests were banned by decrees issued Monday night for some areas of Yangon and Mandalay that made illegal rallies and gatherings of more than five people, along with motorized processions, while also imposing a 8 p.m. to 4 a.m. curfew. It was not clear if restrictions were imposed for other areas. Violators could be punished by up to six months in prison or a fine.Demonstrations were also held in other cities Tuesday, including Bago — where city elders negotiated with police to avoid a violent confrontation — and Dawei, and in northern Shan state.In Magwe in central Myanmar, where water cannons were also used, unconfirmed reports on social media said several police officers had crossed over to join the protesters’ ranks. Police in Naypyitaw and Pathein, west of Yangon, were also said to have switched sides. The AP was unable to immediately confirm the reports.Crowds also gathered in Yangon, the country’s biggest city where thousands of people have been demonstrating since Saturday, despite a heightened security presence. No violence was reported.Police, not soldiers, appeared to have been deployed to stop the demonstrations, a small indicator of restraint by the military government. The army has a record of brutality in crushing past revolts as well as in fighting ethnic minorities in border areas seeking self-determination. It also has been accused of carrying out genocide in its 2017 counterinsurgency campaign that drove more than 700,000 members of the Muslim Rohingya minority across the border to seek safety in Bangladesh.State media for the first time on Monday referred to the protests, saying they were endangering the country’s stability.“Democracy can be destroyed if there is no discipline,” declared a statement from the Ministry of Information read on state television station MRTV. “We will have to take legal actions to prevent acts that are violating state stability, public safety and the rule of law.”However, the military commander who led the coup and is now Myanmar’s leader made no mention of the unrest in a 20-minute televised speech Monday night, his first to the public since the takeover.Senior Gen. Min Aung Hlaing instead repeated claims about voting fraud that have been the justification for the military’s takeover, allegations that were refuted by the state election commission. He added that his junta would hold new elections as promised in a year and hand over power to the winners, and explained the junta’s intended policies for COVID-19 control and the economy.The general's remarks, which included encouragement for foreign investors, did nothing to assuage concern in the international community.U.S. State Department spokesman Ned Price said the U.S. condemned violence against the protesters and reiterated the U.S.'s earlier calls for the military to restore power to the elected government. “The international community is attempting every avenue to ensure that democracy and civilian leadership is restored in Burma," Price said in Washington, using Myanmar's former name.The U.N.’s Human Rights Council, based in Geneva, will meet Friday to consider the human rights implications of the crisis. Britain and the European Union spearheaded the request for the special session, which will amount to a high-profile public debate among diplomats over Myanmar and could lead to a resolution airing concerns or recommendations of international action.New Zealand suspended all military and high-level political contact with Myanmar, Foreign Minister Nanaia Mahuta announced Tuesday in Wellington, adding that any New Zealand aid should not go to or benefit Myanmar’s military government.“We do not recognize the legitimacy of the military-led government and we call on the military to immediately release all detained political leaders and restore civilian rule,” Mahuta said. New Zealand was also placing a travel ban on the military leaders.——-Associated Press writers Jamey Keaten in Geneva and Nick Perry in Wellington, New Zealand, contributed to this report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/myanmar-junta-cracks-down-on-crowds-defying-protest-ban-101612922208004.html
10-02-2021||World||Trump 'absent' from second impeachment but his team is speaking||Donald Trump isn’t attending his unprecedented second impeachment trial and is banned from tweeting, but his team is making sure Republicans feel his presence.The former president was in his private quarters at his Mar-a-Lago resort in Florida as the proceedings unfolded on television, according to people familiar with the matter. At the same time, his allies were actively tweeting and re-tweeting posts in Trump’s all-caps, exclamation-pointed style from multiple accounts, defending him as Democratic House managers laid out their case on the first day of his trial in the Senate.Former White House Chief of Staff Mark Meadows was in the U.S. Capitol, meeting with the defense team and letting Republican senators see him there on behalf of Trump.Meadows told reporters he was there to meet with Trump’s impeachment team, and that those meetings would continue “sporadically.”Asked if he’d spoken to Trump, Meadows said he hadn’t in the hours since the trial started Tuesday but, “I speak to him on a regular basis, yes.”Trump’s office also issued a statement with “key points” and a “Q and A” after the Senate voted 56-44 that the trial was constitutional with six Republicans siding with Democrats. It slammed the proceedings as “political vengeance” against the former president, and reaffirmed that he wouldn’t testify or participate in what he called a “unconstitutional sham hearing.”“This is ‘cancel culture’ on a constitutional level,” Trump’s office said in the statement.What to Know About Trump’s Second Impeachment Trial: QuickTakeThe Senate is trying Trump on a charge of incitement to insurrection. Democrats said he encouraged his supporters to help him overturn the results of his Nov. 3 election loss to Joe Biden, culminating in a mob of his supporters storming the U.S. Capitol on Jan. 6 as Congress was counting Electoral College votes. The violent assault left five people dead.Trump’s team argued that the trial is unconstitutional because he is out of office, but also that he didn’t incite the riot and spoke under protection of the First Amendment.As House managers presented to the Senate their case that the trial is legitimate, Trump’s allies were tweeting in real time -- using familiar Trump phrases -- and trying to undercut the Democrats’ case.The @TrumpWarRoom account, managed by his Save America political action committee, tweeted a photo of the Senate’s presiding officer, Democrat Patrick Leahy, and said, “Imagine having a ‘trial’ where the ‘judge’ had already voted to convict the defendant? That’s what happens in banana republics, third world dictatorships and now the United States Senate. SAD!”Trump adviser Jason Miller also tweeted, as lead House manager Jamie Raskin argued that it was legal to try Trump even though he’s out of office, saying that “using Raskin’s argument, House Democrats could impeach George Washington.”These overt acts of support weren’t just for solidarity. The trial is firing up his political base and an acquittal -- which will happen unless 17 Republican senators join 50 Democrats in voting to convict -- would leave him free to run for office again. Trump would be able to argue that he was vindicated after another Democratic “witch hunt,” as he has described previous attempts to remove him.It comes as two wings of the Republican Party are grappling for supremacy -- those loyal to Trump and those such as Representative Liz Cheney of Wyoming, the No. 3 House Republican, who voted to impeach him, who want to move on from Trump.Representative Jim Jordan, a Ohio Republican and staunch Trump ally, went on Fox Business Network right before the trial started and said Democrats impeached Trump because they fear facing him in 2024.“I think he would win -- will win again in 2024,” Jordan said. “I think it’d be good for the nation if he did.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-absent-from-second-impeachment-but-his-team-is-speaking-101612923796736.html
10-02-2021||World||Melbourne hotel, being used for quarantine, shut as new Covid-19 cases emerge||A hotel in Melbourne being used to quarantine overseas arrivals has been closed after new coronavirus cases were linked to it.The Holiday Inn at Melbourne Airport will close until further notice, Victoria state quarantine authorities said in a statement Wednesday. About 135 staff and 48 residents who were in the hotel between Jan. 7 and Feb. 9 will need to enter a 14-day quarantine, while two schools located in the suburb that’s recorded seven new exposure sites have closed as a precaution.Also Read | Quarantine worker at Melbourne hotel tests positive for Covid-19The closing comes after a hotel quarantine worker became infected with the virus, and another person who was quarantined in the Holiday Inn tested positive after leaving there three days ago.Melbourne, which is currently hosting the Australian Open Grand Slam tennis tournament, last year endured one of the world’s strictest and longest lockdowns, which confined the city’s 5 million residents to their homes for more than three months.Australia, which has recorded fewer than 29,000 cases of Covid-19 since the pandemic began, has come close to eliminating community transmission of the virus through the hotel quarantine system for all international arrivals, vigilant contact tracing methods, and promoting high testing rates.Victoria Premier Daniel Andrews told reporters in Melbourne that while his state had improved its hotel quarantine system since breaches triggered last year’s three-month lockdown, hyper infectious strains of the virus being imported from overseas were proving very difficult to contain.“This is a wicked enemy, made more challenging by the fact that it is changing, it is a moving target, and that really does cause significant concern for all of us,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/melbourne-hotel-being-used-for-quarantine-shut-as-new-covid-19-cases-emerge-101612923194726.html
10-02-2021||World||US senators revive bill to make refugee status easier for Hong Kong protesters||A bipartisan group of senior US senators reintroduced a bill on Tuesday to make it easier for people from Hong Kong fearing persecution after joining protests against China to obtain US refugee status.The 12 senators, led by Republican Marco Rubio and Democrat Bob Menendez, said the bill was a response to a draconian national security law introduced by China in Hong Kong last year that was the focus of mass street protests.The Hong Kong Safe Harbor Act would make "Hong Kongers who participated peacefully in the protest movement and have a well-founded fear of persecution" eligible for processing as refugees in Hong Kong or a third country.Refugees from Hong Kong would not be subject to a numerical limitation, a statement from the senators said.The proposed law would also make it easier for dissidents to seek asylum by waiving provisions that make suspected intent to immigrate or a criminal record disqualifying factors for non-immigrant visas.Additionally, it would make Hong Kongers who have their residency revoked eligible for refugee status as victims of political persecution."The U.S. must do all it can to assist those Hong Kongers who have courageously stood up to defend the city they love from the CCP’s persecution and open our doors to them," Rubio said.Menendez said the aim was "to reiterate to the Chinese Communist Party that the United States stands foursquare with the people of Hong Kong" and to show they would not "fall through the cracks of our broken immigration system... ."The bill was reintroduced because a previous version expired when a new Senate was seated last month.The new Biden administration's secretary of state, Antony Blinken, has said the United States should accept people fleeing the Hong Kong crackdown."If they're the victims of repression from Chinese authorities, we should do something to give them haven," he told NBC news late last month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-senators-revive-bill-to-make-refugee-status-easier-for-hong-kong-protesters-101612920697282.html
10-02-2021||World||'I'm not a cat,' says lawyer after Zoom filter mishap||When Judge Roy Ferguson opened up virtual proceedings of the 394th Judicial District Court in Texas on Zoom on Tuesday, he was not expecting to see two lawyers and a kitten.The cute blue-eyed "cat" in the bottom right corner was actually county attorney Rod Ponton, covered by a filter."Mr Ponton, I believe you have filter turned on in the video settings," said the judge.Ponton said his assistant was trying to fix the settings."I'm here live, I'm not a cat," he said."I can see that," said the judge.As the video went viral on social media, Ferguson wrote in a tweet: "IMPORTANT ZOOM TIP: If a child used your computer, before you join a virtual hearing check the Zoom Video Options to be sure filters are off."The 69-year-old Ponton told Reuters that he was not sure how the filter had appeared."I logged into my secretary's computer to appear at this hearing via Zoom, and when everybody's ready the judge calls the case and everybody's face is supposed to pop up on Zoom."And everybody's face popped up except mine. Mine was a cat," he said.The judge helped remove the filter and the hearing proceeded, he explained.Judge Ferguson called it a "fun moment.""Everyone involved handled it with dignity, and the filtered lawyer showed incredible grace," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/im-not-a-cat-says-lawyer-after-zoom-filter-mishap-101612920076377.html
10-02-2021||World||El Salvador opposition proposes president's removal||Opposition lawmakers in El Salvador on Tuesday proposed starting a process that could lead to the removal of President Nayib Bukele from office just two weeks before his party is widely expected to win a majority in legislative elections.El Salvador’s historical parties from the left and right appeared poised to unite against Bukele who ran an outsider’s campaign that carried him to the presidency less than two years ago. He maintains broad popular support, but has battled against the opposition-controlled legislature at every turn.“We’re either facing a criminal or a nut; we’re facing a deranged person who is lacking the faculties to do the job,” said Deputy Ricardo Velásquez Parker, a lawmaker from the conservative Nation Republican Alliance party, or ARENA. Velásquez proposed invoking a provision in the constitution that would allow for Bukele's removal if he's found to be physically or mentally unfit.The proposal has the support of the leftist Farabundo Martí National Liberation Front, or FMLN, and the Christian Democrat Party. The proposal goes to the Legislative Assembly’s political committee, which is controlled by those parties. Eventually, the proposal would need the support of at least two-thirds of the body’s members and the unanimous support of a five-doctor panel appointed by the assembly.Also read: US cuts military aid to El Salvador amid intense lobbyingAlso read: Biden administration moves to reverse Trump's migration agreementsBukele, 39, quickly responded via Twitter, calling it an attempted coup in the run-up to national elections.“It’s incredible, but revealing, to see the self-proclaimed ‘defenders of democracy’ maintain total silence before this attempted parliamentarian coup d’etat, just days before a democratic election in which all of the polls say they will lose 80% of their seats,” Bukele wrote.Bukele’s electoral victory broke a three decade-long hold on power by ARENA and the FMLN. Both have suffered high-profile corruption scandals and the public was primed for the young Bukele, who had come up in the FMLN but cast himself as an outsider ready to speak directly to the people.The upcoming elections were the first chance for Bukele’s supporters to give him the legislative support he had been lacking.Bukele has faced criticism inside and outside El Salvador for not respecting democratic institutions, including the Legislative Assembly — he sent heavily armed troops to surround it a year ago during a clash over security funding — and the Supreme Court, which has repeatedly shot down his executive actions during the pandemic.He enjoyed a cozy relationship with the Trump administration, supporting some of its hardline policies on immigration. The new Biden administration has expressed a willingness to keep Bukele at arms length until it sees signs that he will keep El Salvador on a democratic path.The AP reported Monday that the Biden administration turned down a meeting request with Bukele on an unannounced trip to Washington last week. Bukele denied having sought a meeting with Biden officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/el-salvador-opposition-proposes-president-s-removal-101612918017386.html
10-02-2021||World||WHO rejects coronavirus lab theory, saying animals likely source||A World Health Organization-led investigation in China found that the coronavirus most likely jumped to humans through an animal host or frozen wildlife products, finding that it’s “extremely unlikely” it came from a laboratory leak.No further research is needed to look into the theory about a leak, Peter Ben Embarek, a WHO food-safety scientist, told reporters Tuesday at a joint briefing with China in Wuhan, the city where Covid-19 first mushroomed at the end of 2019. That speculation has been promulgated by former U.S. President Donald Trump and some others.The virus could have been introduced to the Huanan wet market in Wuhan, which many of the first Covid patients were linked to, by a person who was infected or by a product that was sold there, Ben Embarek said.“Among the more interesting products were frozen wildlife animals,” he said. “Some of these species are known to be susceptible to these kinds of viruses.”The highly anticipated mission followed months of negotiation with a defensive China to facilitate and cooperate with the probe. Stung by criticism that it initially covered up the extent of the crisis, Chinese state media and officials have promoted the theory that the virus didn’t start in China, but was brought in. The WHO’s validation of a potential cold-chain transmission route is likely to bolster those efforts.Unpublished instances of SARS-CoV-2 detections that showed the virus was present outside China before Covid-19 cases emerged in Wuhan indicate studies into the virus’s origins need to be widened to other countries, Liang Wannian, a senior official at China’s National Health Commission, told the briefing.US Department of State spokesman Ned Price said the U.S. has expressed concerns regarding the need for full transparency and access from China and the WHO to all information regarding the earliest days of the pandemic, and cast doubt about Liang’s argument.China Cooperation“I don’t think there is any reasonable person who would argue that the coronavirus originated elsewhere,” he told reporters in Washington Tuesday. “We clearly support this investigation. We recognize there is an urgent need for an investigation. But I wouldn’t want to be conclusive yet about any sort of cooperation that the WHO may or may not have received from China.”The team of investigators examined tens of thousands of patient samples from Wuhan prior to the emergence of sick people in 2019. There was no evidence of significant outbreaks in the country before December 2019, WHO officials said.“We embarked on a very detailed and profound search for other cases that may have been missed early on in 2019,” said Ben Embarek. “The conclusion was we did not find evidence of large outbreaks that could be related to cases of Covid-19 prior to December 2019 in Wuhan or elsewhere.”The panel, comprising 17 Chinese and 17 international experts, looked for clues to understand how SARS-CoV-2 -- whose closest known relative came from bats 1,000 miles away -- spread explosively in Wuhan before causing the worst contagion in more than a century. Finding the source will inform efforts to stop the virus, and other pathogens with pandemic potential, spilling over into human populations.Worldwide, Covid-19 has caused more than 106 million infections and 2.3 million deaths.Mission delegates worked in three groups that focused on the epidemiology or spread of the disease, the potential involvement of animals and the environment, and the molecular evolution of the virus.Related VirusResearchers found a coronavirus related to SARS-CoV-2 in bats at a wildlife sanctuary in Thailand, according to a study released Tuesday in the Nature Communications journal, another indication of how widespread such viruses are. While highly similar to the coronavirus that causes Covid-19, the Thai version doesn’t appear adapted to spread in humans by the same mechanism, researchers from Thailand and Singapore said in the report.Scientists still don’t understand if the virus can spread to humans after persisting in frozen conditions, and how that would occur, according to Ben Embarek. More work is needed to study that possible path and trace the source of animal products, he said.“It’s interesting to explore if a frozen wild animal that was infected could be a potential vehicle for the introduction of the virus into market environments where we know the temperature, humidity, environment could be conducive to rapid spread of the virus,” he said.The lack of a clear pathway from bats to humans had stoked speculation -- refuted by many scientists -- that the virus might have escaped from the Wuhan Institute of Virology, home to a maximum bio-containment laboratory that studies bat-borne coronaviruses.Members of the WHO mission visited the lab last week and asked Shi Zhengli, who has collected and analyzed these viruses for more than a decade, about the research and the earliest known coronavirus cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/who-rejects-coronavirus-lab-theory-saying-animals-likely-source-101612916775101.html
10-02-2021||World||Pakistan opposition slams govt over farmer leader's arrest in Lahore||Pakistan Kissan Ittehad (PKI) president Chaudhry Anwar was arrested from his residence on Monday by the Raiwand police, which has led to the opposition claiming that the government was putting pressure on the farmer leader to withdraw a complaint against the police.The farmers' leader had led a protest around three months ago in the provincial capital, demanding ₹2,000 per 40 kg wheat support price and ₹300 per kg for sugarcane, besides a flat power rate of ₹5 per unit for the farm tubewells, Dawn reported.However, in the ensuing clash with police, one of the protesters named Ashfaq Langrial had died.Following the arrest, Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz (PML-N) has alleged that the police action is aimed at forcing Anwar to withdraw the petition he had earlier filed for registration of a murder case against the police over the protester's death."The Punjab government had been pressing Chaudhry Anwar to withdraw his application for registration of the murder case. On his persistent refusal, the Raiwind police arrested him from his residence," Punjab PML-N President Rana Sanaullah Khan said on Monday, reported Dawn.He further added that the 'puppet' government, which had been claiming to champion the cause of farmers' rights, is now harassing the farmers' leadership through arrests.Meanwhile, a police source says the PKI president was arrested from Multan by the Raiwind police on a complaint of an overseas Pakistani, who alleged he had given ₹32 million in cash besides some machinery for an agriculture project to the farmer leader.The complainant had alleged that life threats had been hurled at him when he demanded his money back.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistan-opposition-slams-govt-over-farmer-leader-s-arrest-in-lahore-101612916059449.html
10-02-2021||World||Covid-19: WHO experts rule out lab leak theory||A World Health Organization (WHO) investigation in China has found that the coronavirus most likely jumped to humans through an animal host or frozen wildlife products, finding that it’s “extremely unlikely” it came from a laboratory leak.No further research is needed to look into the theory about a leak, Peter Ben Embarek, a WHO official, told reporters on Tuesday at a briefing in Wuhan, the city where Covid-19 first mushroomed at the end of 2019. That speculation has been promulgated by former US president Donald Trump and some others.The virus could have been introduced to the Huanan wet market in Wuhan, which many of the first Covid-19 patients were linked to, by a person who was infected or by a product that was sold there, Ben Embarek said. “Among the more interesting products were frozen wildlife animals,” he said. “Some of these species are known to be susceptible to these kinds of viruses.”Cold-chain transmissionThe mission followed months of negotiation with a defensive China to facilitate and cooperate with the probe. Stung by criticism that it initially covered up the extent of the crisis, Chinese state media and officials have promoted the theory that the virus didn’t start in China, but was brought in. The WHO’s validation of a potential cold-chain transmission route is likely to bolster those efforts.The team studied tens of thousands of patient samples from Wuhan prior to the emergence of sick people in 2019. There was no evidence of significant outbreaks in China before December 2019, WHO officials said.The lack of a clear pathway from bats to humans had stoked speculation - refuted by many scientists - that the virus might have escaped from the Wuhan Institute of Virology, home to a maximum bio-containment laboratory that studies bat-borne coronaviruses.Members of the WHO mission visited the lab last week and asked Shi Zhengli, who has collected and analysed these viruses for more than a decade, about the research and the earliest known coronavirus cases.“We embarked on a very detailed and profound search for other cases that may have been missed early on in 2019,” said Ben Embarek. “The conclusion was we did not find evidence of large outbreaks that could be related to cases of Covid-19 prior to December 2019 in Wuhan or elsewhere.”The panel, comprising 17 Chinese and 17 international experts, looked for clues to understand how Sars-CoV-2 - whose closest known relative came from bats 1,000 miles away - spread explosively in Wuhan before causing the worst contagion in more than a century.Liang Wannian, an expert with China’s National Health Commission, said there had been no substantial spread of the virus in the city before late 2019 outbreak. “This indicates the possibility of the missed reported circulation in other regions,” Liang, the Chinese lead of the team convened by the WHO, said. Liang said the team believes the virus originated in an animal, “but the reservoir host remains to be identified”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-who-experts-rule-out-lab-leak-theory-101612916914589.html
10-02-2021||World||UK airports warn 11th hour confusion threatens quarantine plan||The UK’s latest clampdown on air travel was met with alarm by industry executives, who called the restrictions complex and said they fear a worsening struggle for survival.Health Secretary Matt Hancock outlined details of new restrictions, including a hotel quarantine and multiple Covid-19 tests, coming into force from Feb. 15 in an attempt to prevent dangerous new virus strains entering the country.But key aspects of the policy’s implementation weren’t spelled out, leaving executives in the travel industry guessing.Each traveler arriving in England from 33 nations on the government’s “red list” will be forced to pay as much as 1,750 pounds ($2,410) to isolate in a hotel for 10 days. They will also be required to test negative for Covid-19 three times.More testing “adds a further barrier to viable air travel and deepens the worsening 2021 outlook for our sector,” Karen Dee, chief executive officer of the Airport Operators Association, and Tim Alderslade, who leads Airlines UK, said in a statement. “Airports and airlines are battling to survive with almost zero revenue and a huge cost base, and practically every week a further blow lands.”The government still hasn’t made it clear who will be responsible for shepherding high-risk passengers through the airport and to the quarantine hotels, people with knowledge of the matter said, asking not to be identified before decisions are finalized. Airports want financial aid if they are expected to do this, and are asking for details on how these passengers will be separated from others as they make their way through the airport, the people said.Frequent ChangesThe travel industry has been hit hard by the coronavirus and has had to contend with sudden changes to rules as the government attempts to get a handle on the risk posed by new variants of the virus. The UK has lagged behind other countries in imposing tighter border restrictions, with countries such as Australia bringing in mandatory quarantine months ago.In their statement, the airport and airline lobbies called on Prime Minister Boris Johnson to provide a road map for a return to international travel with “transparent and risk-based health criteria” for the lifting of restrictions. They also said aviation-specific financial aid is urgently needed.“U.K. aviation can be the conduit to the government’s Global Britain and leveling-up agendas, but only if we have viable and competitive sector still standing come the end of the pandemic,” they said.The government has signed contracts with 16 hotels near London’s Gatwick and Heathrow airports, and Birmingham in central England, to provide 4,600 rooms so far. More rooms will be booked as needed, Hancock said.Westminster is in contact with authorities in Scotland and Ireland, and measures will apply to British and Irish residents returning home from virus hot spots. “We must strengthen our defenses yet further,” Hancock said. “People who flout these rules are putting us all at risk.”Under the plans for tighter border rules:Border LoopholesWhile the travel industry decried the lack of detail in the policy, opposition politicians and others criticized ministers for taking too long to close border loopholes for travelers.The new policy will come into force almost three weeks after it was announced and the number of hotel rooms secured so far falls well short of the 28,000 reported to be the government’s target.British officials have spoken to their Australian and New Zealand counterparts for advice about how to quarantine travelers in hotels. More than 112,000 people in the UK have died from coronavirus, compared with 909 in Australia.Johnson’s government is still resisting a blanket hotel quarantine policy in an effort to minimize disruption to vital supplies and essential travel.In Parliament, Mark Harper, a Conservative former minister, urged Hancock to spell out when the rules will be lifted. Hancock replied that the rules will be replaced “over time” once the population has been vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-airports-warn-11th-hour-confusion-threatens-quarantine-plan-101612916329892.html
10-02-2021||World||Attorneys challenge Weinstein company's bankruptcy plan approval||Four women who have accused disgraced film mogul Harvey Weinstein of sexual misconduct are appealing a Delaware judge’s approval of the Weinstein Co.’s bankruptcy plan.Attorneys filed the appeal in U.S. District Court in Delaware on Tuesday on behalf of producer Alexandra Canosa and actresses Wedil David and Dominique Huett, who have accused Weinstein of sexual assault, and a former Weinstein Co. employee who claims she was subjected to a hostile work environment.They also filed an emergency motion in bankruptcy court asking that the judge stay implementation of her plan confirmation order pending the appeal.The reorganization plan would provide about $35 million for creditors. That’s about $11.5 million less than under a previous plan, which was scrapped after a federal judge in New York refused to approve a proposed $19 million settlement between Weinstein and some of his accusers. The settlement in that purported class-action lawsuit was a key component of the initial bankruptcy plan.Roughly half of the approved settlement, about $17 million, is allocated for a single sexual misconduct claims fund, down from about $25.7 million allocated for three separate categories of sexual misconduct claims under the previous plan. Another $8.4 million would go to a liquidation trust for resolving non-sexual misconduct claims, and $9.7 million would be used to reimburse defense costs for former company officials other than Weinstein. The plan also releases those officials from liability for tort claims related to Weinstein’s conduct.Holders of sexual misconduct claims will receive 100% of the liquidated value of their claims if they agree to release Weinstein from all legal claims. A claimant who elects not to release Weinstein but to retain the option to sue him in another court would receive 25% of the value of her bankruptcy claim.Attorneys for the objectors say the plan includes overly broad releases from liability for third parties such as insurance companies and former Weinstein Co. officers and directors. They also argue that it contains a provision that unfairly prevents non-consenting sexual misconduct claimants from pursuing their claims.Weinstein is serving a 23-year prison sentence after being convicted by a New York jury for the rape and sexual assault of two women. He also has been charged in California with rape, forcible oral copulation, sexual battery by restraint and sexual penetration by use of force. Those allegations involve five women and stem from events in Los Angeles and Beverly Hills from 2004 to 2013.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/attorneys-challenge-weinstein-company-s-bankruptcy-plan-approval-101612914109678.html
10-02-2021||World||Bolder climate action could save millions of lives each year by 2040||Countries could save millions of lives annually by 2040 if they commit to bolder plans to cut planet-heating emissions and curb global warming in line with the goals of the Paris Agreement on climate change, researchers said Tuesday.A study published in The Lancet Planetary Health journal found policies to that end could, each year, save 5.86 million lives due to better diets, 1.18 million lives from cleaner air and 1.15 million lives through more walking and cycling by 2040.In 2015, governments set a global goal of limiting average temperature rise to "well below" 2 degrees Celsius above preindustrial times and set emissions reduction targets as a first step to getting there.On Monday, however, U.N. Secretary-General Antonio Guterres urged countries to take bolder action ahead of November's COP26 U.N. climate conference and come up with stronger 2030 targets consistent with cutting emissions to net zero by 2050.The new research highlighted how the potential health benefits of climate action could give added impetus to countries to submit more ambitious national climate plans ahead of COP26.The nine countries modeled in the study - the United States, China, Brazil, Germany, India, Indonesia, Nigeria, South Africa and Britain - represent half of the world's population and 70% of global emissions.Six of them have yet to submit revised climate action plans, which were due in 2020 but put back by many countries as the Covid-19 pandemic delayed the climate summit for a year."Ahead of COP26, we'd like to see governments focus on health as one of the priorities in climate change policies," said lead author Ian Hamilton, executive director of The Lancet Countdown on Health and Climate Change."There's good evidence to show that meeting the Paris Agreement commitments will be good for our health, and that these benefits accumulate to those individuals in the countries taking leadership," he told the Thomson Reuters Foundation.SHORT-TERM WINSUsing national and international data, the study analyzed emissions generated by the energy, agriculture and transport sectors, along with factors like national diets and lifestyles.The researchers modeled the scenarios required for each country to meet the Paris accord, including changes like adopting cleaner energy and reducing car use, as well as to achieve global development goals such as zero hunger.They found that changes towards "flexitarian" diets - with moderate amounts of animal-based foods and a high share of plant-based foods - offered the greatest health benefits as well as reducing carbon emissions.For example, many deaths would be avoided by lower rates of non-communicable diseases such as obesity and heart disease, connected to excessive consumption of carbon-intensive red meat and processed foods, and lack of access to fruit and vegetables."Why wouldn't we prioritize investments that will save more lives near-term if they give us the same amount of carbon value?" said Aaron Bernstein, interim director of The Center for Climate, Health, and the Global Environment at the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health.Changing diets is a complex challenge for governments, he noted, but potential ways to do it include subsidizing healthier foods and putting a price on the emissions produced by more carbon-intensive foods that require a lot of natural resources.Beef production, for instance, fuels greenhouse gas emissions as carbon-storing forests are cut down for pasture and cattle burp out methane.A focus on health is one way to make climate action more personal and appealing, Bernstein added, instead of being framed as a cost now that will bring benefits for future generations."We have to make this issue relevant to today, and (talk about) improving the welfare, economic opportunities and health of people in a time frame that they can get their heads around," he said.A separate study out on Tuesday found pollution from burning fossil fuels causes one in five premature deaths globally, totaling 8.7 million in 2018 and suggesting the health impacts of those emissions may be far higher than previously thought.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/bolder-climate-action-could-save-millions-of-lives-each-year-by-2040-101612914117706.html
10-02-2021||World||Moderna enters supply agreement for Covid-19 vaccine with Taiwan, Colombia||US drugmaker Moderna Inc said on Tuesday it had entered supply agreements for its Covid-19 vaccine with the governments of Taiwan and Colombia for five million doses and 10 million doses, respectively."The COVID-19 Vaccine Moderna is not currently approved for use in Taiwan or Colombia, and the Company will work with regulators to pursue necessary approvals prior to distribution", Moderna said in a statement.Deliveries would begin in mid-2021, the company added.Late in December, Taiwan said it had agreed to buy almost 20 million doses of Covid-19 vaccine, including 10 million from UK drugmaker AstraZeneca Plc, with the first shots to start arriving from March.Last week, Germany ducked an appeal by Taiwan for its help to supply Covid-19 vaccines, as the Asian tech powerhouse's request for assistance following Berlin's plea to ease a semiconductor supply crunch in the auto industry risked provoking China's ire.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/moderna-enters-supply-agreement-for-covid-19-vaccine-with-taiwan-colombia-101612916005439.html
10-02-2021||World||Twitter sees jump in user base amid US election turmoil||Twitter said Tuesday its user base jumped to 192 million in the quarter marked by US presidential election turmoil and a battle against misinformation.Ranks of "monetizable" daily active Twitter users rose 27 percent from a year earlier during the fourth quarter, which ended just days before former president Donald Trump was booted from the service.Chief executive Jack Dorsey said the San Francisco platform remained focused on "promoting healthier conversations for those who use our service."Twitter and Facebook suspended Trump in early January over posts accused of inflaming violence in the US Capitol, as social media scrambled to respond to mayhem by supporters buying into his baseless attacks on the integrity of the election.The unprecedented sanctions came after the president took to social media to repeat his numerous false claims about fraud and other impropriety in the election he lost to Joe Biden.Twitter suspended Trump during a social media crackdown that came after Trump's supporters stormed the US Capitol in a deadly siege, interrupting congressional debate over Biden's election victory.Twitter reported profit nearly doubled from a year earlier to $222 million on revenue that soared 28 percent to a record $1.29 billion."2020 was an extraordinary year for Twitter," Dorsey said."We are more proud than ever to serve the public conversation, especially in these unprecedented times."The results sparked a modest uptick in shares of Twitter, which has been working to boost advertising as it seeks to broaden its base beyond its core audience of celebrities, journalists and politicians."Twitter caps off a turbulent 2020 with a strong performance," eMarketer analyst Nazmul Islam said of the quarterly results that beat market expectations.Twitter might see user growth ebb in the current quarter due to "removal of accounts and defections from those who oppose account bans," Islam noted.He expected spending by advertisers at Twitter to remain strong nonetheless.- Apple bite? -Twitter warned that ad revenue could take a hit from changes Apple is making to the iOS software powering its mobile devices.A new Apple feature referred to as a "privacy nutrition label" tells users what tracking data is gathered by mobile apps and asks for consent via an onscreen prompt.Tracking data is used to target advertising in ways that make it more likely to get clicks, making money for platforms in the process."Assuming the global pandemic continues to improve and that we see modest impact from the rollout of changes associated with iOS 14, we expect total revenue to grow faster than expenses in 2021," Twitter said.Financial analysts were watching to see whether the absence of Trump's attention-grabbing behavior at Twitter will take a toll on the messaging platform's use or revenue."It looks like Twitter has a solid path of profitability, but they could take a hit this quarter due to Trump and a lot of Republicans being pulled off the platform," said analyst Rob Enderle of Enderle Group."I know the platform is a lot more pleasant now."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/twitter-sees-jump-in-user-base-amid-us-election-turmoil-101612914127673.html
10-02-2021||World||North Korea lays out paths to take with South Korea, external affairs||North Korean leader Kim Jong Un ordered the paths for his ruling Workers' Party to take with South Korea and external affairs, state media KCNA said on Wednesday.Kim called last month for more advanced nuclear weapons and said the United States was "our biggest enemy," presenting a stark challenge to U.S. President Joe Biden just days before he took office.Kim, who cemented his power at January's party congress with his election as general secretary, further discussed Pyongyang's five-year policy plan on the second day of the plenary meeting on Tuesday."The General Secretary in the report evinced the militant tasks to be carried out by the People's Army and the munitions industry this year," KCNA reported, "and the direction of future action to be taken by the sector in charge of affairs with South Korea and the sector in charge of external affairs, before underscoring the need to thoroughly carry them out without fail."While raising the issue of reshaping relations with South Korea "as required by the prevailing situation and the changed times", Kim has criticised Seoul for offering cooperation in "non-fundamental" areas such as COVID-19 aid and tourism and said it should stop buying arms from and conducting military drills with the United States.South Korea's new foreign minister said on Tuesday he was confident about coordinating North Korea policy with the United States despite earlier signs of differences.South Korean President Moon Jae-in said last month that Biden should hold talks with North Korea to build on progress that former President Donald Trump made with Kim.Kim's unprecedented personal meetings with Trump failed to lead to a breakthrough in denuclearisation talks or a loosening of sanctions.KCNA did not provide further details of the meeting, but said the meeting would continue at least until a third day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/north-korea-lays-out-paths-to-take-with-south-korea-external-affairs-101612914136612.html
10-02-2021||World||Senate agrees to hear Trump impeachment case, rejecting GOP arguments||Donald Trump’s historic second impeachment trial opened Tuesday with graphic video showing the former president whipping up a rally crowd to march to the Capitol and “fight like hell” against his reelection defeat, followed by images of the deadly attack on Congress that came soon after.In an early test of the former president's defense, Trump's team lost a crucial bid to halt the trial on constitutional grounds. Senators confirmed, 56-44, their jurisdiction over the trial, the first of a president no longer in office. While six Republican senators joined the Democrats in proceeding, the tally showed how far prosecutors have to go to win conviction, which requires a two-thirds threshold of 67 senators.Tuesday's vote was on whether a former president could be tried after leaving office.House Democrats prosecuting the case told senators they were presenting “cold, hard facts” against Trump, who is charged with inciting the mob siege of the Capitol to overturn the election he lost to Democrat Joe Biden.Senators sitting as jurors, many who themselves fled for safety that day, watched the jarring video of Trump supporters battling past police to storm the halls, Trump flags waving.“That's a high crime and misdemeanor,” declared Rep. Jamie Raskin, D-Md., in opening remarks. “If that's not an impeachable offense, then there's no such thing.”Trump is the first president to face impeachment charges after leaving office and the first to be twice impeached. The Capitol siege stunned the world as hundreds of rioters ransacked the building to try to stop the certification of Biden’s victory, a domestic attack on the nation’s seat of government unlike any in its history. Five people died.Acquittal is likely, but the trial will test the nation’s attitude toward Trump's brand of presidential power, the Democrats’ resolve in pursuing him, and the loyalty of Trump’s Republican allies defending him.Trump's lawyers are insisting that he is not guilty of the sole charge of “incitement of insurrection,” his fiery words just a figure of speech as he encouraged a rally crowd to “fight like hell” for his presidency. But prosecutors say he “has no good defense” and they promise new evidence.Security remained extremely tight at the Capitol on Tuesday, a changed place after the attack, fenced off with razor wire with armed National Guard troops on patrol. The nine House managers walked across the shuttered building to prosecute the case before the Senate.White House press secretary Jen Psaki said Biden would not be watching the trial of his predecessor.“Joe Biden is the president, he’s not a pundit, he’s not going to opine on back and forth arguments,” she said.With senators gathered as the court of impeachment, sworn to deliver “impartial justice,” the trial started with debate and a vote over whether it’s constitutionally permissible to prosecute Trump after he is no longer in the White House.Trump’s defense team has focused on that question, which could resonate with Republicans eager to acquit Trump without being seen as condoning his behavior.Lead lawyer Bruce Castor said that no member of the former president’s defense team would do anything but condemn the violence of the “repugnant” attack, and “in the strongest possible way denounce the rioters.”Yet Trump’s attorney appealed to the senators as “patriots first,” and encouraged them to be “cool headed” as they assess the arguments.At one pivotal point, Raskin told the personal story of bringing his family to the Capitol the day of the riot, to witness the certification of the Electoral College vote, only to have his daughter and son-in-law hiding in an office, fearing for their lives.“Senators, this cannot be our future,” Raskin said through tears. “This cannot be the future of America.”Trump attorney David Schoen turned the trial toward starkly partisan tones, the defense showing its own video of Democrats calling for the former president's impeachment.Schoen said Democrats are fueled by a “base hatred” of the former president and “seeking to eliminate Donald Trump from the American political scene."It appears unlikely that the House prosecutors will call witnesses, in part because the senators were witnesses themselves. At his Mar-a-Lago club in Florida, Trump has declined a request to testify.Presidential impeachment trials have been conducted only three times before, leading to acquittals for Andrew Johnson, Bill Clinton and then Trump last year.Timothy Naftali, a clinical associate professor at New York University and an expert on impeachment, said in an interview, “This trial is one way of having that difficult national conversation about the difference between dissent and insurrection."The first test Tuesday was on the constitutionality of the trial, signaling attitudes in the Senate. Six Republicans joined with Democrats pursue the trial, just one more than on a similar vote last week. Bill Cassidy of Louisiana added to the ranks of Susan Collins of Maine, Lisa Murkowski of Alaska, Mitt Romney of Utah, Ben Sasse of Nebraska and Pat Toomey of Pennsylvania.The House prosecutors argued there is no “January exception” for a president on his way out the door. Rep. Joe Neguse, D-Colo., referred to the corruption case of William Belknap, a war secretary in the Grant administration, who was impeached, tried and ultimately acquitted by the Senate after leaving office.Trump's case is hardly a run of the mill corruption charge, he said, but incitement of insurrection. If Congress stands by, “it would invite future presidents to use their power without any fear of accountability.”In filings, lawyers for the former president lobbed a wide-ranging attack against the House case, suggesting Trump was simply exercising his First Amendment rights and dismissing the trial as “political theater” on the same Senate floor invaded by the mob.Because of the Covid-19 crisis, senators were allowed to spread out, including in the “marble room” just off the Senate floor, where proceedings are shown on TV, or even in the public galleries above the chamber. Most were at their desks on the opening day, however.Presiding was not the chief justice of the United States, as in previous presidential impeachment trials, but the chamber’s senior-most member of the majority party, Sen. Patrick Leahy of Vermont.Under an agreement between Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer and Republican leader Mitch McConnell, the substantive opening arguments will begin at noon Wednesday, with up to 16 hours per side for presentations. The trial is expected to continue into the weekend.Trump's second impeachment trial is expected to diverge from the lengthy, complicated affair of a year ago. In that case, Trump was charged with having privately pressured Ukraine to dig up dirt on Biden, then a Democratic rival for the presidency.This time, Trump's “stop the steal” rally rhetoric and the storming of the Capitol played out for the world to see.The Democratic-led House impeached the president swiftly, one week after the attack. Five people died, including a woman shot by police inside the building and a police officer who died the next day of his injuries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-senate-finds-donald-trump-s-impeachment-trial-constitutional-101612908969457.html
10-02-2021||World||Xi Jinping was testing Biden admin. The answer is 2 American aircraft carriers||Two American aircraft carriers including USS Nimitz, which was pulled out from the Persian Gulf earlier this month, conducted military exercises in the South China Sea in a clear signal to Xi Jinping’s China that President Joe Biden would continue with the Trump administration’s tough approach to Beijing.The coordinated operations, combining ships and planes of the two strike groups Theodore Roosevelt and Nimitz, were carried out in a highly-trafficked area to demonstrate the US Navy's ability to operate in challenging environments, the US Pacific Fleet said in a statement on Tuesday on the exercises that angered China. Beijing described the exercises as an effort by the US “to flex its muscles”.It is more, a China watcher in New Delhi suggested, underlining that the US used deployment of its strike groups as a show of force to deter adversaries. The last time the US conducted dual-carrier operations in the South China Sea was in July 2020. That round of exercises had come after China’s People’s Liberation Army Navy conducted military drills in the contested waters, provoking a sharp and worried reaction from China’s neighbours.Tuesday’s exercises came against the backdrop of multiple provocations over the past few weeks including flying nearly a dozen military aircraft including strategic bombers into the Taiwan Strait last month. Last week, Beijing responded aggressively to the presence of USS John S. McCain, claiming that it was able to drive away the US guided-missile destroyer from near Paracel island in the South China Sea region.The China watcher cited above said that the US Navy deployed elements from three strike forces - USS John S. McCain had teamed up with USS Ronald Raegan last October - was indicative of the importance that the US was laying on its messaging to Beijing. Biden hasn't spoken to Chinese President Xi Jinping yet.The news of the exercises by the supercarriers in China’s neighbourhood came a day after US President Joe Biden, in his conversation with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, made a pointed reference to the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue, the strategic dialogue between India, USA, Japan and Australia that mostly focuses on Beijing.Biden and PM Modi, according to a White House readout of the conversation between the two leaders, “agreed to continuing close cooperation to promote a free and open Indo-Pacific, including support for freedom of navigation, territorial integrity, and a stronger regional architecture through the Quad.”Yongwook Ryu, an assistant professor at the National University of Singapore’s Lee Kuan Yew School of Public Policy who focuses on East Asia, told Bloomberg that the US earlier emphasised its policy mainly verbally. But since the Trump administration, it has been promoting it much more explicitly with specific actions such as dispatching its two aircraft carriers to the South China Sea.Biden is sending out a clear message to Beijing that it is not going to be soft toward China on certain issues, including the South China Sea disputes, despite its willingness to cooperate with China on some other issues such as climate change, Yongwook Ryu said.Furious at Washington’s show of force in the South China Sea, the Chinese foreign ministry said: “This is not conducive to peace and stability in the region. China will continue to take necessary measures to firmly defend national sovereignty and security and work together with regional countries to safeguard peace and stability in the South China Sea.”A new Chinese law that came into force on Monday allows its coast guard to fire at foreign ships in its waters and remove buildings constructed by foreign countries on what it believes are Chinese territories.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/2-us-warships-in-south-china-sea-spell-out-joe-biden-s-hardline-on-xi-jinping-101612885133151.html
10-02-2021||World||Indo-Canadian groups protest over alleged Khalistani role in farmers’ stir||Indo-Canadian organisations are stepping up efforts to counter the narrative related to the ongoing farmers’ protests in India, as they believe the agenda has largely been hijacked by pro-Khalistan elements in Canada.More than 350 vehicles participated in a “tiranga rally” in Metro Vancouver, including members from various Indo-Canadian groups in the region. The participants waved India flags in front of the Indian consulate in Vancouver, a symbolic gesture as this was the scene of a blockade carried out by protesters on January 26, 2021.Khalistan flags had been brandished during the course of the Republic Day protest, and among its organisers was Mo Dhaliwal, founder of Poetic Justice Foundation, which was also behind the toolkit for organising criticism of the Indian government with regard to the farmers’ agitation.Among those who organised Saturday’s pro-India rally was a resident of the Delta region of British Columbia. “There was so much anger within the community here over what happened in New Delhi on Republic Day that we had to do something,” said the person who chose not to be identified. The person added that the community respected the views of protesting farmers, but their cause had been taken over by separatist elements in Canada and elsewhere.Referring to the protests in Canada, the person said, “Everyday, it’s happening here. This is very disturbing.” The person added that the rally started from Surrey and the cavalcade of cars travelled to Vancouver. HT is withholding some of the names at the request of the participants.According to a video, during the course of a speech delivered in front of the consulate on January 26, Dhaliwal had said, “You have to understand the feeling and the emotion that the Khalistan movement is bringing to this. I want people to hear this. The reason why the Khalistani people are so passionate about this is that 40-50 years later, we’re seeing the truth that they predicted in the 1970s. In the 1970s, they wanted an independent land, so that we wouldn’t have to live through this movement.” The authenticity of the video has yet to be verified.Meanwhile, Indo-Canadian groups continued to reach out to Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau to underscore the importance of relations with India, which were undermined by his remarks on the farmers’ protests. A letter sent by the Ottawa-based Overseas Friends of India Canada said, “It is no surprise that a single comment at this moment has put us on the back foot with regard to our relations with India. It is imperative for Canada to maintain a just stance especially when it comes to a close ally like India.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indocanadian-groups-rally-to-protest-alleged-khalistani-role-in-farmer-protest-101612678967334.html
10-02-2021||India||India will do its best to facilitate vaccine supplies: PM Modi to Justin Trudeau||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday assured his Canadian counterpart Justin Trudeau that New Delhi will do its best to facilitate supplies of Covid-19 vaccine sought by Ottawa.“Was happy to receive a call from my friend @JustinTrudeau. Assured him that India would do its best to facilitate supplies of COVID vaccines sought by Canada,” Modi tweeted late on Wednesday night.“We also agreed to continue collaborating on other important issues like Climate Change and the global economic recovery,” he said, without giving details.There was no official word from the Canadian side on the phone conversation, which came close on the heels of a viral video of a Canadian opposition lawmaker questioning minister of public services and procurement Anita Anand on whether she or Trudeau had reached out to Modi for vaccines.Canada’s inoculation drive started with the emergency authorisation of the Pfizer-BionTech vaccine in December, though the number of doses received from that company and Moderna has been far below expectations. The Trudeau government has faced criticism from the opposition and the media over its failure to procure sufficient quantities to inoculate Canadians.However, Anand has told the Canadian media she is confident the situation will soon be remedied. She told CBC News she has “solid confirmation” that Canada will receive six million doses, as announced earlier by Trudeau, by the end of March.Trudeau said in a set of tweets on Tuesday that starting next week, Canada is “expecting hundreds of thousands [of] vaccine doses each week - and that’s just from Pfizer. With these shipments, we remain on track to receive 20 million doses from Pfizer and Moderna this spring.”Three other companies – AstraZeneca, Janssen and Novavax – have submitted their vaccines for review by Canadian authorities, he said. “That is all good news, and those are all reasons to be hopeful, but we can’t let our guards down yet,” he added.Ties between India and Canada took a hit recently when Trudeau extended support to Indian farmers protesting against three farm laws. India pushed back against his comments, describing the protest as an internal matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-will-do-its-best-to-facilitate-vaccine-supplies-pm-modi-to-justin-trudeau-101612981428571.html
10-02-2021||India||French envoy meets RSS’ Suresh Bhaiyyaji Joshi in Nagpur||French ambassador Emmanuel Lenain met the general secretary of the RSS, Suresh Bhaiyyaji Joshi, in Nagpur on Wednesday.As per a report in the Organiser, a publication affiliated to the Sangh, the meeting was held at noon. There was no statement from the French embassy about the meeting.Earlier the Australian high commissioner to India Barry O’Farrell AO met Mohan Bhagwat, the head of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) in November last year. Tweeting about the meeting, O’Farrell had said the RSS has been “actively supporting the community during Covid-19”.“... I met with sarsanghchalak Dr Mohan Bhagwat who shared relief measures the organisation has adopted during these challenging times,” he tweeted.In 2019, a meeting between Bhagwat and German ambassador Walter J Lindner took place in Nagpur. The German ambassador had also tweeted about the meeting, which set off a storm on social media with many criticising it.The RSS describes the meetings as part of the organisation’s outreach.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/french-envoy-meets-rss-suresh-bhaiyyaji-joshi-in-nagpur-101612980459018.html
10-02-2021||India||Man sentenced to death for rape, murder of 5-year-old||A trial court in Hojai district of Assam on Wednesday sentenced a man to death for rape and murder of a five-year-old girl last year.Additional district and session judge N Senabai sentenced Chandan Harijan to death under sections 302, 376 (A) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act for raping and murdering the minor.The court announced its verdict after a two-month trial and also slapped a fine of ₹5 lakh on the accused.The incident that took place on February 26 last year had sparked outrage in the area with hundreds of locals staging protests seeking justice.The body of the victim was found in a jungle a day after she went missing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-sentenced-to-death-for-rape-murder-of-5yearold-101612979286853.html
10-02-2021||India||SC stays HC verdict asking schools to provide gadgets, internet to poor students||The Supreme Court Wednesday stayed the Delhi High Court verdict which directed private unaided as well as government schools like 'Kendriya Vidyalayas' to provide gadgets and internet packages to students from economically weaker section (EWS) or disadvantaged group so that they have access to online classes.A bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde agreed to hear the plea filed by the Delhi government challenging the high court judgement of September 18 last year.“Issue notice. In the meantime, there shall be stay of operation of the impugned order of the high court,” the bench, also comprising Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, said in its order.A division bench of the high court had directed that cost of gadgets and internet package are not a part of tuition fee and have to be provided free of cost to these students by the schools, subject to the right of private unaided schools to claim reimbursement from the state in accordance with provision of the Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Act, 2009.While staying the verdict, the apex court also issued notices to NGO ‘Justice for All’, on whose petition the high court had delivered the judgement, and others on Delhi government’s plea.Senior advocate Vikas Singh, appearing for Delhi government, told the bench that additional burden has been put on the state by the high court verdict.“We are already spending a lot on the education front,” Singh told the bench.The bench, while observing that the apex court had earlier delivered a verdict on a similar issue in a case arising out of Himachal Pradesh, asked Singh to place that judgement before it.The high court had delivered the judgement on a plea filed by the NGO seeking directions to the Centre and the Delhi government to provide free laptops, tablets or mobile phones to poor students so that they can access classes online during the Covid-19 lockdown.The high court had said that to separate such students from others in the same class due to non-availability of a gadget or a device would generate "a feeling of inferiority" that may "affect their hearts and minds unlikely ever to be undone".It had said if a school decides to voluntarily provide synchronous face-to-face real time online education as a method of teaching, "they will have to ensure that the students belonging to economically weaker section (EWS) or disadvantaged group (DG) category also have access and are able to avail the same".The court had said that, "Segregation in education is a denial of equal protection of the laws under Article 14 of the Constitution and in particular the Right to Education (RTE) Act, 2009."The high court had said that section 12(1)(c) of RTE Act requires private unaided schools to provide free and compulsory elementary education to 25 per cent EWS/DG students and that means "education sans financial barrier"."Consequently, intra-class discrimination, especially inter-se 75 per cent fee paying students viz-a-viz 25 per cent EWS/DG students upsets the level playing field and amounts to discrimination as well as creates a vertical division, digital divide or digital gap or digital apartheid in addition to segregation in a classroom which is violative of RTE Act, 2009 and Articles 14, 20 and 21 of the Constitution," it had said.The high court had also directed constitution of a three-member committee, comprising education secretary from the Centre or his nominee, Delhi government's education secretary or his nominee and a representative of the private schools, to expedite and streamline the process of identifying and supplying the gadgets to poor and disadvantaged students.It had said the committee shall also frame standard operating procedures (SOPs) for identifying the standard of the equipment and internet package to be supplied to the poor and disadvantaged students.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-stays-hc-verdict-asking-schools-to-provide-gadgets-internet-to-poor-students-101612975693337.html
10-02-2021||India||Prohibitory orders in Assam district after clash and arson on Mizoram border||The Hailakandi administration in Assam clamped Section 144 of Cr.PC in the entire district on Wednesday after six persons were injured and 18 houses burnt down as a result of a clash between residents of Assam and Mizoram a day earlier close to the border between the two states.Unofficial accounts and local reports say the number of injured could be over two dozen and nearly 50 houses were burnt. However, officials haven’t confirmed those figures.According to Assam officials, the incident took place at Kachurtal area of Jhalnacherra in Hailakandi district over a dispute related to construction of a road on the Assam side of the border.“There was a quarrel on the construction of a road on the Assam-Mizoram border on our side. Some Mizoram residents obstructed construction of the road and it led to a fight between residents of both states and several people got injured,” said Dilip Kumar Dey, DIG (Southern Range), Assam Police.“Three persons on our side were injured. When our personnel reached the spot they dispersed the mob. But while returning to Mizoram, the miscreants burnt down at least 18 houses on the Assam side,” he added.Security personnel from the state police and central paramilitary forces have been deployed in the area and the situation there is stated to be tense but under control. On Wednesday senior district and police officials visited the site.“The situation is under control. Most villagers who had fled from their homes fearing more attacks have gone back. Nearly 15 families are taking shelter in relief camp. We are in constant touch with officials of Kolasib district in Mizoram to monitor the situation,” Hailakandi deputy commissioner Megh Nidhi Dahal said.Hailakandi superintendent of police Pabindra Kumar Nath said that three persons from Mizoram also sustained minor injuries in the clash.“Though construction was taking place in Assam, Mizoram claims the territory to be disputed. The injuries sustained by the six persons are not very serious. Of the three from Assam, one was discharged after first-aid while the two others were taken to Hailakandi civil hospital,” Nath said.Apprehending further breach of peace and tranquility in the border areas following Tuesday’s incident additional district magistrate RK Dam promulgated Section 144 with immediate effect.Tuesday’s incident took place less than a week after a school located near the Assam-Mizoram border in Hailakandi district was damaged due to two bomb blasts by unidentified miscreants in the early hours of February 3.Assam and Mizoram share a 164-km boundary and there have been territorial disputes between the two states for many years.In October last year, several persons from both states were injured in violence along the Assam-Mizoram border after some residents of Vairengte in Kolasib district of Mizoram set on fire temporary huts made by residents of Lailapur in Cachar district of Assam on a stretch of disputed land.Mizoram said the huts were built on ‘no man’s land’ while Assam claimed the area as theirs.Following the incident, residents on the Assam side blocked the highway going to Mizoram for several days and hundreds of trucks on the way to the neighbouring state were stranded.The blockade was lifted in November after several rounds of talks between both states and following intervention of the Union home ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prohibitory-orders-in-assam-district-after-clash-and-arson-on-mizoram-border-101612975901780.html
10-02-2021||India||Big projects for poll-bound states in budget: Kapil Sibal alleges bias||Congress leader Kapil Sibal on Wednesday, during a discussion on the budget in the Rajya Sabha, accused the government of indulging in vote bank politics by awarding big infrastructure projects to poll-bound states - Assam, West Bengal, Kerala and Tamil Nadu.“The government engages in vote bank politics in the budget. And it engages in note bank politics outside the budget,” the Congress leader said.Road projects worth ₹25,000 crore have been announced for West Bengal. ₹65,000 crore has been allocated for road and highways project in Kerala, while ₹3,400 crore has been marked for Assam. In Tamil Nadu, ₹1.03 lakh crore has been earmarked for national highway projects. All these states are set to go to polls in the next few months.Sibal said while everyone supported the self-reliant India movement, it was for the government to answer if India’s farmers, Dalits, minorities, small traders and micro, small and medium enterprises were also ‘Atmanirbhar.’“86% of farmers own less than five acres of land. Are they Atmanirbhar? Is that why they are protesting peacefully at Delhi’s borders? You have to answer,” Sibal said.The Congress leader said several factors indicated that the country’s economy was in a poor shape even before the Covid pandemic erupted. He said the government managed the economy badly during the last six years and alleged that the country’s assets were owned by “4-5 big boys and one very big boy is everywhere”.“In 2018, 1% of people owned 58% of the country’s assets. And in 2019, 1% people owned 73% of the assets. This is a classic case of crony capitalism,” he said.He accused the government of indulging in jugglery of data and establishing “an oligarchic economic order”.“You have been in power for six years. No more excuses. Your report card will be looked into,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/big-projects-for-poll-bound-states-in-budget-kapil-sibal-alleges-bias-101612975873052.html
10-02-2021||India||Telangana CM announces ₹1,000 crore scheme for Dalit empowerment||Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Wednesday announced the launch of an exclusive scheme for the uplift of Dalits in the state with a budgetary allocation of ₹1,000 crore.Addressing a huge rally at Halia town in Nalgonda district, KCR said the “CM Dalit Empowerment Scheme” would be rolled out in the forthcoming budget.“I will be directly monitoring the implementation of the scheme, under which various projects would be initiated for Dalits. Initially, we shall allocate ₹1,000 crore for the scheme in the coming budget and in the subsequent years, the allocation would be increased manifold,” said the CM.He said though his government had been implementing a sub-plan for Scheduled Castes and taking up certain schemes, he was not totally satisfied with it. “That is why we are coming out with this new scheme,” he said.Though the public meeting was organised as part of the chief minister’s visit to Nalgonda district to lay foundation stone for 13 various lift irrigation schemes on Krishna river at a cost of nearly ₹3,000 crore, he used the occasion to kickstart the campaign of the Telangana Rashtra Samithi for the ensuing by-election to Nagarjunasagar assembly seat.The by-election, necessitated due to the death of sitting TRS legislator Nomula Narasimhaiah due to post-Covid-19 complications in December, has become a matter of prestige for the TRS, which faced a debacle in the by-elections to Dubbak assembly seat, followed by Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation elections.The TRS chief called upon the people of Nagarjunasagar constituency not to get carried away by the propaganda of the Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party but support the party which had been addressing the needs of every section of the society.“If you think what I am saying is true, see that the opposition parties lose their deposits,” he said.The chief minister pointed out that it was the TRS government which had driven away fluorosis from the villages of Nalgonda by providing safe drinking water through Mission Bhagiratha scheme. “The Congress governments in the past had never thought of implementing a scheme like Rythu Bandhu that provides ₹10,000 per acre per year to each farmer. Yet, the Congress leaders are shamelessly criticising the TRS government,” he said.The TRS chief also promised to complete all the lift irrigation schemes within a year. “If we can’t fulfil our promise, we won’t ask for votes from you in the next elections. We have that credibility of not going back on what we promised in the past,” he said.He also warned the opposition parties against creating hurdles in the meetings of the TRS. “The Congress and the BJP, which were responsible for the suicides of farmers in the past, have no moral right to disturb our meetings. Ours is a democratically elected people’s government, not the one nominated by Delhi,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-cm-announces-rs-1-000-crore-scheme-for-dalit-empowerment-101612975498817.html
10-02-2021||India||Lok Sabha sees huge increase in productivity in past two days||Lok Sabha has witnessed "record productivity" over the past two days following resolution of logjam over the demand by opposition parties for a separate discussion on the new farm laws that had caused repeated disruptions last week.According to statistics by Lok Sabha secretariat, the productivity for the past two days was 161 per cent due to the House sitting beyond its scheduled time.Speaker Om Birla and several ministers were present in the House when it was adjourned at late hours in the past two days.The Speaker held a series of meetings last week to resolve the stalemate in the House between the government and opposition parties.The Lok Sabha functioned till 12 midnight on Monday on the discussion on the motion of thanks on the President's Address and the productivity was 143 per cent. The House functioned till 1 am on Tuesday and the productivity was 180 per cent.The discussion saw 69 members putting across their views in the House and 62 members laying down their speeches.Lok Sabha will also function beyond its scheduled time on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lok-sabha-sees-huge-increase-in-productivity-in-past-two-days-101612975384528.html
10-02-2021||India||SC notice to Centre on plea seeking repeal of provisions criminalising begging||The Supreme Court Wednesday asked the Centre and some states to respond to a plea which has sought direction to repeal the provisions criminalising begging saying it leaves people with "unreasonable choice" of committing crime or starving.A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and R S Reddy issued notices and sought replies from the Centre as also Maharashtra, Gujarat, Punjab, Haryana and Bihar on the plea which claimed that sections of the statutes criminalising begging is violative of Constitutional rights.“Issue notice returnable in six weeks,” the bench said, while hearing the petition filed by Meerut resident Vishal Pathak.The plea, filed through advocate H K Chaturvedi, has referred to the August 2018 verdict of the Delhi High Court which had decriminalised begging in the national capital and said that provisions of the Bombay Prevention of Begging Act, 1959 which treats begging as an offence cannot sustain constitutional scrutiny.“The provisions of the statutes criminalising the act of begging puts people in a situation to make an unreasonable choice between committing a crime or not committing one and starving, which goes against the very spirit of the Constitution and violates Article 21 i.e. Right to Life,” the plea filed in the top court said.Referring to the Census 2011, the plea said the total number of beggars in India is 4,13,670 and the number has increased from the last Census.It said that government has the mandate to provide social security for everyone and ensure that all have basic facilities as embedded in Directives Principles of State Policy in the Constitution.“However, the presence of beggars is evidence that the states have failed to provide these basic facilities to all its citizens, thus instead of working on its failure and examining what made people beg, criminalising the act of beggary is irrational and against the approach of a socialist nation as embedded in preamble of our Constitution,” the plea said.It said that a person, who is compelled to beg, cannot be faulted for his actions in such compelling circumstances.“Furthermore, by enforcing such legislations, state is simply failing in its duty to provide a decent life to its citizens and adds insult to injury by arresting, detaining and if necessary, imprisoning such persons who beg in search for essentials of bare survival which is even below sustenance,” it said.The plea claimed that ‘The Abolition of Begging and Rehabilitation of Beggars Bill 2018’ was introduced in the Lok Sabha but “till date this bill is not passed and is wedged in length parliamentary procedures which has resulted in thousands of poor face more hardships because of present arbitrary statutes”.The petition has sought directions to declare as “illegal and void” all provisions, except some sections, of the Bombay Prevention of Begging Act, 1959, Punjab Prevention of Beggary Act, 1971, Haryana Prevention of Begging Act, 1971 and Bihar Prevention of Begging Act 1951.It has also sought to declare all other similar Acts prevailing in any part of the country as illegal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-notice-to-centre-on-plea-seeking-repeal-of-provisions-criminalising-begging-101612975167238.html
10-02-2021||India||19-year-old man held from Faridabad for harassing over 50 women, minors on social media||A 19-year-old man was arrested form Faridabad for allegedly harassing more than 50 girls and women by stalking them on social media platforms through a fake identity and morphing their pictures, police said on Wednesday.The accused, Rahim Khan, studied up to Class 8 and was engaged in operating various morphing mobile applications, they said.The police said the accused harassed more than 50 girls and women after stalking them over various social media platforms. He used to send them messages with sexual connotations on these platforms using a fake identity of a woman. The accused even targeted minors by morphing their pictures.Khan was arrested after a complaint was received at the RP Puram police station on Tuesday from one of the victims, who alleged that an unknown person was sending her morphed pictures to her from the Instagram handle "ch_rahim_khan786" and further demanding nude pictures, according to the police.Based on technical inquiry and details obtained from Instagram, a Cyber Cell team of southwest district traced the location of the accused. Khan was nabbed from his house in Haryana's Faridabad, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Southwest) Ingit Pratap Singh said.During interrogation, Khan confessed to his involvement in the crime and told the police that he had victimised over 50 girls and women across the country for personal satisfaction, the officer said.The police have recovered incriminating evidence including chat details, video clips and photographs of various women from Khan's mobile phone.Further investigation is underway, the police said, adding that efforts are being made to contact the other victims.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/19yearold-man-held-from-faridabad-for-harassing-over-50-women-minors-on-social-media-101612975073282.html
10-02-2021||India||Farm Laws: PM cites 'Churchill Cigar Assistant' anecdote to underline need for change||Defending the farm laws as much needed reforms, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday underlined that change is essential and cited the case of CCA, a British era post in Tamil Nadu for supplying cigars to then UK Prime Minister Winston Churchill that was not abolished till several decades after independence.Speaking in Lok Sabha on the motion of thanks to the President for his address, Modi said change and reforms are essential for the progress of every modern society.He also mentioned social reformers like Raja Ram Mohan Roy, Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar, Jyotiba Phule and B R Ambedkar who had the courage to push for reforms in society against the prevailing norms.Stressing that still water leads to diseases while moving water instills new energy, Modi said he opposes the mindset of "status quo" and asserted that the young generation wouldn't wait long for change."One should take responsibility and decide according to the needs of the country. This mindset of 'status quo' has also played havoc in stopping the country's progress. Till when will we continue with this status quo," Modi said.To buttress his point for change, Modi cited a story of CCA, Churchill Cigar Assistant, in the office of Chief Secretary of Tamil Nadu. The post was specifically created for ensuring the supply of cigar to Churchill from Tiruchirappalli in the state.Despite Churchill losing in 1945 and India becoming independent in 1947, the post continued till several decades later and the fact came to light when the state government set up a commission for raising the salaries of government employees.The CCA wrote to the Commission seeking a raise but no one was even aware that such a post existed.This incident is the biggest example of a need for change in governance for the progress of the society, Modi suggested.He said a country cannot be run by just "cutting ribbons" and photo-ops. "We should make every attempt to bring changes. There may be mistakes, but if the intention is fair, there will be good results," he said.Not acting due to fear of failure does not benefit anyone, the prime minister said.He also took potshots at those asking why the laws were introduced when farmers didn't ask for them, saying that India is a democratic country and not a feudal set up where people should seek something from those who are in power.The government should be sensitive towards the people and take decisions that are good for the country, Modi said, while noting that people did not demand Ayushaman Bharat, Jan Dhan Accounts and Swachh Bharat, but still the Centre initiated these welfare programmes.He said laws against dowry, triple talaq and child marriage were also not demanded, still, the governments brought these laws as they were required for the overall well-being of the nation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-laws-pm-cites-churchill-cigar-assistant-anecdote-to-underline-need-for-change-101612974688764.html
10-02-2021||India||FASTags to become mandatory from February 15: All you need to know||Electronic toll collection system FASTag will become mandatory for all vehicles from February 15, 2021. The ministry of road transport and highways had earlier given an order in this regard. The FASTag will be necessary while travelling across the country and will also be required while crossing any toll plazas throughout the country’s national highways.The government had initially set the deadline for the mandatory fitment of FASTag for all vehicles in the country from January 1, 2021 but the implementation was delayed and toll plazas continued collecting money manually too.Several banks like HDFC Bank, Axis Bank, ICICI Bank, Kotak Bank, Paytm Payments Bank and IDFC First Bank are issuing FASTags.The FASTag sticker is attached to the windshield of a car and uses the Radio-Frequency Identification (RFID) technology. The sticker is pasted on the inside of the windshield of the car and resembles a bar code. RFID developed by the National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI) enables the driver of the car to pass through the FASTag readers installed overhead at toll plazas. As the vehicle passes beneath the detector, the RFID code gets detected and the necessary toll amount is deducted from the minimum pre-paid balance.The National Highways Authority of India said on February 10 that it is not required to maintain a minimum amount in FASTag wallet.FASTags help in seamless collection of toll tax without the need of stopping at toll plazas. The use of RFID technology helps in collecting taxes without the need of handling cash by toll booth employees and negates waiting time in toll booths. It also stops unnecessary queuing at the toll booths.FASTags can be purchased across the country’s toll booths. One can buy FASTags from Amazon.in and also purchase FASTags from Axis Bank, HDFC Bank, ICICI Bank, State Bank of India, Kotak Bank and PayTM Payments Bank. Most of them offer discounts or exclusive offers through their respective mobile apps and also offer cashback on purchase of FASTags. Carrying your identification as well as the vehicle registration documents is mandatory for purchase of FASTags. The cost of buying FASTags depends upon two factors - class of vehicle (car, jeep, van, bus, truck, light commercial vehicles, construction machines) and bank from where the FASTag is being purchased from. Different banks may have different pricing policies regarding issuance fees and security deposits. Currently, purchasing FASTag on PayTM will cost ₹500 - out of which ₹250 is the refundable security deposit.FASTags issued by banks can be recharged on Paytm and PhonePe. UPI, Credit Cards and Debit Cards can be used for recharging FASTags.A FASTag is valid for 5 years from the date of issuance. Recharging of FASTag does not extend its validity beyond the initial date of issuance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fastags-to-become-mandatory-from-february-15-all-you-need-to-know-101612972629390.html
10-02-2021||India||Tamil Nadu parties united in call for single phase state elections||Ruling and opposition political parties in Tamil Nadu have urged the Election Commission to make it a single phase assembly election in the state. An election commission delegation, led by chief election commissioner Sunil Arora, arrived in Chennai on Wednesday on a two-day visit to assess poll preparedness in Tamil Nadu.In complaints to the poll body, the DMK alleged deletion of voters’ name, spotlighted AIADMK’s spending on advertisements in newspapers, among others.“Previously, we have submitted six representations to the EC for clarifications in the voters’ list but they did not answer,” said DMK’s organising secretary RS Bharathi.“We have also asked the commission to investigate two complaints and reply within three days of booths being illegally shifted in Coimbatore and a strong room in Chennai’s Madhavaram not being safe as EVMs for 16 constituencies are stored here with broken doors. We have submitted photographs,” he added.The ruling AIADMK has called for elections to be conducted in April due to the scorching heat in May. “We have asked for polls in the fourth week of April,” AIADMK leader Pollachi V Jayaraman told reporters after the meeting.The BJP, AIADMK ally, urged for election dates to be after Tamil New year which falls in the month of April. “We have asked for the elections not to be too close to the Tamil New Year because it is celebrated widely by people,” BJP’s state general secretary KT Raghavan told reporters. “We have urged them to be careful about facilities provided for senior citizens as some parties could indulge in malpractices.”The Congress wanted the interval between election day and counting to be shortCPI (M) leader TK Rangarajan told reporters that they raised the issue of not receiving EPIC cards and highlighted election malpractices. “They arrest wrongdoers during elections but they have never been punished in case. They are let off after polls. There are pictures of money distribution but there is no information about what happened to the accused or the money.”Though the state has always had single-phase elections, all parties made this request following the three-phase voting in Bihar last year amid the Covid-19 pandemic. They had made a similar request when election officials visited the state in December.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-parties-united-in-call-for-single-phase-state-elections-101612972261275.html
10-02-2021||India||INS Viraat's dismantling to be kept on hold, says Supreme Court to owner||The dismantling of the Navy’s former warship, Viraat, has been kept on hold by the Supreme Court, which also issued notice to the company that brought the ship from the government to be made into scrap.The top court’s order comes on a petition by a group that offered to buy the decommissioned carrier and convert it into a maritime museum.A court was informed that a portion of the ship has already been dismantled.“In the meantime, parties are directed to maintain status quo with regard to dismantling/breaking of the subject-ship known as INS Viraat, as on date,” said a three-judge bench of the Supreme Court, headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde.The firm - Envitech Marine Consultants Private Limited - had earlier lost before the Bombay High Court. By an order of November 3, 2020 the high court refused to intervene in the matter after the ministry of defence refused to issue a no objection certificate.At an auction held in July last year, the government sold the warship to Shree Ram Group of Industries, a ship-breaking firm based in Alang, Gujarat, for converting it into scrap at a price of ₹38.54 crore.INS Viraat, India’s first aircraft carrier inducted into the Indian Navy in 1987, was decommissioned in 2017. It was previously part of the British Royal Navy before it was acquired from the United Kingdom.Envitech Marine Consultants was represented before the apex court by its managing director Rupali Sharma. The firm had evinced interest in purchasing the ship by offering a premium. But the ship’s new owner had demanded a sum of ₹100 crore.On Wednesday, the bench, also comprising Justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian asked Sharma to indicate how much the petitioner firm was willing to pay to acquire INS Viraat. Sharma stated that the ship-breaking company had demanded ₹100 crore. The Court asked Sharma, “What is the condition of the ship? Has it been dismantled?”The petitioner informed the bench that 25 per cent of dismantling was over. However, the hull is still intact, Sharma added. Before the Bombay High Court, the Ministry had stated that the new owner of the ship was not willing to sell.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ins-viraat-s-dismantling-to-be-kept-on-hold-says-supreme-court-to-owner-101612971678821.html
10-02-2021||India||Sivaji Ganesan's son, Ramkumar, to join BJP ahead of Tamil Nadu polls||The late veteran actor Sivaji Ganesan’s son, Ramkumar, will be joining the BJP in Tamil Nadu on Thursday. “I’ll be joining because of Mr Narendra Modi; to strengthen his hand,” Ramkumar, a film producer, told reporters outside Chennai’s BJP office.The younger son, Prabhu, is an actor.Sivaji Ganesan had been a DMK sympathiser and later moved to the Congress which appointed him as an MP to the Rajya Sabha. He was also associated with former prime minister VP Singh’s Janata Dal. In 1988, the thespian floated a party Tamilzhaga Munnetra Munnani which failed.Tamil Nadu Congress’ art wing chairman K Chandrasekhar expressed disappointment with the son’s move to the BJP. “Ramkumar's decision to join the BJP will bring disrepute to Sivaji's fame,” Chandrasekhar said. “Though everyone has the right to join any party, there is a difference in Ramakumar going to the BJP...I was Sivaji Ganesan’s office in-charge when he started the party. So I know that he always wanted to work with secular forces. He always believed that the people of India are Indians first and all religions are equal. I joined the Congress after his demise.”The BJP, which has a minor presence in the state, has been on a recruiting spree.Former Congress leader ‘Karate’ Thiagarajan is also likely to join the BJP Thursday in the presence of state leaders.Congress’ former spokesperson actor-turned-politician S Khushboo joined the BJP in October. More recently, cricket commentator and former spinner L Sivaramakrishnan also joined the party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shivaji-ganesan-s-son-ramkumar-to-join-bjp-ahead-of-tamil-nadu-polls-101612972004248.html
10-02-2021||India||FATF meets Thursday to assess Pakistan's actions on countering terror financing||The Financial Action Task Force (FATF) will begin a series of meetings on Thursday that will review Pakistan’s actions to counter terror financing amid signs that Islamabad is yet to completely implement the multilateral watchdog’s action plan.There will be eight meetings of FATF’s working groups between February 11 and 19 before the crucial plenary meeting during February 22-25 that will take a final call on Pakistan’s case. All the meetings are being held virtually because of the Covid-19 pandemic.Pakistan has taken some steps in recent months, such as the prosecution of Lashkar-e-Taiba founder Hafiz Saeed and his aides in terror financing cases, though people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity these actions still did not completely fulfill the 27 points in FATF's action plan.“Some of these actions are the type of things Pakistan does whenever it faces pressure from the West to crack down on terror. They aren’t irreversible steps to completely stop activities of terror groups,” said one of the people cited above.At the conclusion of its last plenary in October, the FATF had given Pakistan time till February this year to address what it described as “very serious deficiencies” in efforts to counter terror financing. The watchdog also retained Pakistan in the “grey list”, in which it was placed in June 2018.FATF president Marcus Pleyer last year cautioned Pakistan that it would not be given a chance “forever” to address outstanding issues and that repeated failure to deliver on the action plan would result in a country being put in the “black list”. Pleyer also said Pakistan had fully complied with 21 of 27 points in the action plan.The people cited above said Pakistan had fallen short in acting against fund raising by UN-designated terror groups, the conviction of UN-listed individuals, and curbing terror financing through narcotics and smuggling of precious gems.The people said it was widely anticipated Pakistan would remain in the grey list and no further action could be taken, in view of the country’s current role in the Afghan peace process. Most Western countries with troops in Afghanistan are keen on a drawdown, which can only be carried out if Pakistan pushes the Taliban to stick to the peace process.However, ahead of the FATF meetings, Pakistan’s civilian and military leadership has launched a concerted campaign to blame India for fomenting unrest and allegedly backing terror groups based in Afghanistan.The leaders, including foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi, have latched on to news anchor Arnab Goswami’s purported WhatsApp chat transcripts, a report from EU DisinfoLab and a UN report about the renewed activities of the Pakistani Taliban in Afghanistan to push a narrative about India’s so-called role in attempts to destabilise Pakistan. India has dismissed these accusations.Sameer Patil, research fellow of international security studies at Gateway House, said Pakistan’s latest actions were an attempt to distract attention from its failure to act against banned terror groups in line with FATF’s recommendations.“Even if these accusations are taken at face value, Pakistan has been given opportunities in the past to bring credible evidence to the table to back up their allegations, which they have failed to do. This is nothing but an attempt to obfuscate the main issue, which is that the terror groups remain active even if they don’t currently operate,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fatf-meets-thursday-to-assess-pakistan-s-actions-on-countering-terror-financing-101612971166834.html
10-02-2021||India||Defence minister Rajnath Singh to make a statement in Rajya Sabha on Ladakh situation tomorrow||Union defence minister Rajnath Singh will make a statement in the Rajya Sabha on Thursday about the situation in Eastern Ladakh, where India is engaged in a standoff with China. This was announced by the defence minister’s office on Wednesday.“Raksha Mantri Shri @rajnathsingh will make a statement in Rajya Sabha tomorrow regarding ‘Present Situation in Eastern Ladakh,” Singh's office tweeted.The announcement came after a demand was made by Congress and other opposition parties.Speaking in the Lok Sabha, Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury had highlighted the recent statement made by Union minister VK Singh on the LAC standoff. He had said that Singh's statement will give China a chance to tarnish India's image at global level."Union minister VK Singh has made a statement which has been widely published in the newspapers about LAC transgressions. And China has picked that up; it will give our neighbour a chance to tarnish our image," Chowdhury said."I request the defence minister to throw some light on the latest situation on the LAC and on the minister's statement," he added.I am more aware of the LAC and the borders. Suggest do not fall prey to the Chinese propaganda.Here is my statement on the subject.#GenerallySaying pic.twitter.com/uQOYLMp4fnSingh was addressing a function in Tamil Nadu's Madurai where he said that the LAC has not been clearly defined and both India and China have crossed their perceptions of the undemarcated LAC many times.“Let me assure you, if China has transgressed 10 times, we must have done it at least 50 times,” he had said.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi had on Tuesday demanded that Singh, the minister of state for transport and highways, should be sacked. Congress MP Manish Tewari moved an adjournment motion notice in Lok Sabha and said that Singh’s statement on the standoff had been picked up by the Chinese foreign ministry, as an “unwitting confession by the Indian side.”Meanwhile, the former army chief said in a statement that his comments were "distorted" and they had nothing to do with what he had actually said on Sunday. “I have simply stated the established fact that the borders along the LAC have not been demarcated and until that is done there will always be differing perceptions,” he said in the statement.Meanwhile, the Chinese defence ministry said on Wednesday that the frontline troops of both the countries in Eastern Ladakh had begun a synchronised and organised disengagement today, as per a statement issued by spokesperson for the Chinese Ministry of National Defence, Senior Colonel Wu Qian.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-singh-to-make-a-statement-in-rajya-sabha-on-ladakh-situation-tomorrow-101612970669473.html
10-02-2021||India||Death toll in Uttarakhand flash flood rises to 34, 170 still missing||Rescuers recovered two more bodies on Wednesday that took the death toll in the Chamoli flash flood to 34 till Wednesday evening.Authorities also revised the number of missing people from 206 to 204 after two of them - workers of the Rishi Ganga project - were found safe at their residences on Wednesday.Rescuers are still clearing the slush and boulders from the tunnel in NTPC's hydel power project in Tapovan where about 35 workers are trapped but have been unable to reach them.Rescuers are now using drones for laser scanning of the tunnel to know the volume of slush inside and trace the location of the trapped workers. Dog squads have also been deployed inside the tunnel.Out of the total 204 missing people, about 190 are workers working in the two damaged dam projects-- Rishi Ganga and the NTPC's Tapovan project."Till Wednesday evening 34 bodies were recovered out of which 10 have been identified while 24 are yet to be identified. Now out of the total 204 missing, 170 are yet to be found," Uttarakhand’s director general of police, Ashok Kumar said.Among the dead, two were police personnel identified as assistant sub-inspector Manoj Choudhary and constable Balbir Singh. Choudhary was deployed as a security guard at the NTPC project in Tapovan while Singh was at the Rishi Ganga project. Their bodies were found on Tuesday."The two personnel were cremated with full state honours on Wednesday in Chamoli. As members of the state police, we are fully behind their family members in this hour of need," said Kumar.Meanwhile, the state forensic laboratory under Uttarakhand police are collecting DNA samples of the recovered bodies for their identification.Many of the bodies found were in mutilated condition making them unrecognisable.Nilesh Bharne, deputy inspector general (law and order) said, "The forensic people are collecting the DNA samples of the recovered bodies kept in the mortuaries based in Karnprayag, Joshimath and Gopeshwar near the disaster site. The samples would be used for their identification by matching them with that of their family members."Bharne also said that on Tuesday, a WhatsApp group at police headquarters level has also been created with family members of the missing to help identify the bodies."We are sharing the photographs and videos of jewellery, tattoos and other identity marks of the bodies on the group to enable their identification," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/death-toll-in-uttarakhand-flash-flood-rises-to-34-170-still-missing-101612969797305.html
10-02-2021||India||Manipur afford further engagement of contractual Covid healthworkers : CM||Imphal, Feb 10 (PTI) Manipur Chief Minister N Biren Singh on Wednesday said that the government cannot afford further engagement of contractual Covid-19 healthworkers but would give them preference in jobs against vacancies in the health department. Responding to a query, he told the Assembly that a total of 659 health workers including 86 medical officers, 309 staff nurse and 264 multi-tasking staff were recruited on contractual basis to assist regular staff deputed to Covid care, quarantine and testing centres.He said initially they were engaged for only three months but their engagement period was extended to another three months due to the requirement to fight the contagion.The government acknowledges the contribution made by the Covid-19 warriors, but in view of the current situation and fund constraint government cannot afford further engagement of the health workers, he added.The chief minister's statement came amidst protest by Covid-19 contractual healthworkers demanding extension of their service. Agitating workers had in a failed attempt even tried to storm the chief minister's bungalow earlier this week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-afford-further-engagement-of-contractual-covid-healthworkers-cm-101612969682908.html
10-02-2021||India||Contribution of this budget is 'Na Jawan na Kisan': Shashi Tharoor||Congress Member of Parliament Shashi Tharoor on Wednesday targeted the Central government over this year's Union budget allocations in the areas of health, agriculture, defence, and fiscal stimulus. Invoking Lal Bahadur Shastri’s words the Congress MP said the budget is neither meant for the Jawan nor for the Kisan.“The government has come out with a budget which deceives people with respect to the allocation in defence and health sectors. Lal Bahadur Shastri had said 'Jai Jawan Jai Kisan'. The contribution of this budget is 'Na Jawan na Kisan',” Tharoor said in Parliament.Tharoor delivered the critique of this year’s Union budget on behalf of his party, right after the Prime Minister had concluded his reply to the motion of thanks on the President's address.“The budget has delivered a blow to our hopes of expanding and developing the healthcare ecosystem of the country,” said Tharoor.He attacked the healthcare allocations in this year’s budget citing that a major chunk has been allocated to a one-time expense of carrying out the Covid-19 vaccination drive and to the department of health and family welfare.“Out of all these claimed allocations 35,000 crore is just a one time expenditure for the ongoing Covid-19 vaccination programme. Another 60,000 crore for the department of drinking water and sanitation. So as a result of this the actual allocation to the department of health and family welfare was only 71.269 crores, which marked not a 137% increase but a decline of nearly 7,000 crores or 10.84%” Tharoor told the Parliament.Tharoor accused the government of going back on their promise of expanding healthcare allocation and in the process betraying the frontline workers who have been at the forefront of the nation’s fight against Covid-19.“Together not only are these paltry allocations a reversal of the government’s own promise to the nation of increasing healthcare expenditure to 2.5% of our GDP by 2025, but they constitute an unconscionable betrayal of the countless sacrifices of our healthcare and frontline workers at the height of a pandemic.” remarked the former diplomat.Commenting on Nirmala Sitharaman invoking India’s historic win at Gabba, Tharoor said that the budget did not espouse the heroics witnessed at Brisbane.“Instead of the Brisbane heroics we got a Chennai collapse” said Tharoor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/contribution-of-this-budget-is-na-jawan-na-kisan-shashi-tharoor-101612968707306.html
10-02-2021||India||Protesting farmers announce 4-hour nationwide 'rail roko' on February 18||Intensifying their agitation against the three new agricultural laws, protesting farmer unions Wednesday announced a four-hour nationwide 'rail roko' (railway blockade) on February 18.In a statement, the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, which is spearheading the protest, also announced that toll collection will not be allowed in Rajasthan from February 12."There will be a 'rail roko' across the country from 12 pm to 4 pm on February 18," the SKM said in the statement.Earlier this month, they had observed a three-hour road blockade to press their demand of repealing the three laws.Thousands of farmers have been protesting against the three laws which were enacted in September last year. The protesters have been alleging the laws will weaken the MSP mechanism and end the mandi system.But the government says the new legislations offer more options to farmers to sell their crops, and will help raise their incomes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/protesting-farmers-announce-4-hour-nationwide-rail-roko-on-february-18-101612969156152.html
10-02-2021||India||‘PM Modi never spoke about the protesting farmers who died’: Harsimrat Badal||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal said on Wednesday that Prime Minister Narendra Modi- during his address in Parliament on farm laws- never spoke about the protesters who died. She added that it was the need of the hour to listen to the farmers’ demands.“It is unfortunate that he said nothing for the 150 people who died (during farmers’ agitation). Where would the ministers have gone in Punjab when they couldn’t go to the borders of Delhi in the last 75 days?” Badal was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Badal, who was earlier the Union food minister in the Modi cabinet, had tendered her resignation last year in protest against the ‘anti-farmer ordinances and legislation’.I think the need of the hr is to listen to what farmer wants. PM said that in Punjab, ministers went & spoke to farmers. I wish he'd tell which farmer was spoken to because as far as I recall, the only minister who went to Punjab called farmers hooligans: Hasimrat Kaur Badal, SAD pic.twitter.com/IQtWcF8v7DBadal had said on Tuesday that the Centre was favouring capitalist cronies, alleging that in termed the protesters as bicholiya, naxals and khalistanis. Highlighting the main demand to legalise the Minimum Support Price (MSP), she appealed to the government to come clean on the intentions on the so-called welfare of the farmers.Meanwhile, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Wednesday that if there were any flaws in the new farm laws, they would be fixed. Replying to the Motion of Thanks on the President’s address in the Lower House, he said that work had to be done towards making the farmers’ self-reliant and further give them freedom to sell their produce.Amid the constant criticism of the laws by the opposition - mainly the Congress party- Modi said that the Congress only made noise about the laws but never discussed the content or intent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pmmodi-never-spoke-about-the-protesting-farmers-who-died-harsimrat-badal-101612968212652.html
10-02-2021||India||Bangladeshi terrorist gets 29-yr jail term for Khagragarh bomb blast in Bengal||A National Investigation Agency (NIA) court in Kolkata on Wednesday sentenced Kausar, a Bangladeshi national and an operative of the banned Jamaat-ul-Mujahideen Bangladesh (JMB) to 29 years in jail for his role in the 2014 bomb blast in a rented house at Khagragarh in Bengal’s East Burdwan district.Kausar was convicted under Sections 120B (criminal conspiracy) and 125 of the IPC (waging or attempt to wage war against the government of any Asiatic power in alliance or at peace with the government of India).He was arrested from a guest house in Bengaluru in August 2018 in a joint operation by the NIA and local police. As many as 31 people were named in the charge-sheet. Most of them have been convicted.Kausar, 31, is an accused in the 2018 Bodhgaya blast as well. He is also named in a case being investigated by the Special Task Force (STF) of the Kolkata Police, officials said.Kausar had formed a third faction of the JMB that operated out of West Bengal, a senior state intelligence officer told HT on condition of anonymity. The faction is often referred to as the New JMB."Kausar sneaked in and out India several times. He was close to Salahuddin who ran the second faction of the JMB. Kausar’s plans to carry out big terror attacks suffered a setback after the IED blew up in Khagragarh, killing two of their own operatives. It is the third faction of the JMB that allegedly masterminded the Holey Artisan Bakery attack in Dhaka in 2016. It is suspected that the faction has links with the Islamic State. Kausar was part of the modules that carried out more than 70 terror attacks in Bangladesh," the IB officer said.On October 2, 2014, when Bengal was celebrating Durga Puja, an improvised explosive device (IED) explosion killed two suspected terrorists and injured a third person while they were making bombs and explosive devices at a rented house in Khagragarh locality of Burdwan town. The blast exposed a network of Bangladeshi terrorists in the state.The NIA took over the probe later that year and submitted the first charge sheet in March 2015. “The rented house was occupied by the members of JMB, ostensibly for burkha-stitching, though in reality it was being used for the nefarious activity of bomb-making,” the NIA had said in a statement that year.In the chargesheet in the Khagragarh case, the NIA mentioned a conspiracy to overthrow the Sheikh Hasina government in Bangladesh.A large number of IEDs, explosives, hand grenades and training videos were seized during the investigation which also pointed at sleeper cells in the districts of Bengal.In August 2019, a special NIA court in Kolkata convicted 19 people, including four Bangladeshis, in the Khagragarh blast case.The accused persons were convicted under the Indian Penal Code, Unlawful Activities Prevention Act, Explosive Substances Act and Arms Act. All of them were charged with waging or attempting to wage war against the state.The Union home ministry banned JMB and its factions in May 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bangladeshi-terrorist-gets-29-yr-jail-term-for-bomb-blast-in-bengal-s-khagragarh-101612964333228.html
10-02-2021||India||Explained: How will new wage code impact take-home pay||Most of those working in private companies are likely to see a cut in the their take-home salary from April after the new wage rules under the Code of Wages comes into effect. The Code of Wages was passed in December 2019.The wage code will lead to increase in gratuity payments and employers’ contribution to their retirement corpus, which could lead to restructuring of salary structures.According to the draft rules, wages for the purpose of calculation of gratuity and provident fund contributions will have to be at least 50 per cent of employees' total pay. To comply with this rule, employers will have to increase the basic pay component of salaries, leading to a proportional increase in gratuity payments and employees’ contribution to the provident fund.Many private companies prefer to keep the allowances component higher and the basic salary lower. This will not be allowed under the new rules.Though the Code of Wages was passed in December 2019, the government had held back its implementation since it wanted to implement it together with other three codes - on Industrial Relations, Social Security and Occupational Health Safety & Working Conditions.All four codes will be implemented from April this year.The codes will play an important role in the year after the coronavirus pandemic which battered the economy last year. With the implementation of these four codes, the government wants to create a conducive environment for investors as well as to provide better social security to workers and protect their rights.The labour codes would not only provide social security to organised sector employees but also to informal sector workers like gig and platform workers. This means that the entire workforce of over 50 crore in the country would get social security coverage under the new legal framework from April onwards.Gig and platform workers are those who are not on the rolls of an organisation and they are not entitled to get various social security benefits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/explained-how-will-new-wage-code-impact-take-home-pay-101612967037762.html
10-02-2021||India||Unfortunate that Aadhaar Act was challenged in court: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi used the Aadhaar scheme to target the opposition parties while replying to motion of thanks on the President's address in Lok Sabha on Wednesday. PM Modi said that schemes like Jan Dhan accounts and Aadhaar were very useful for the poor during Covid-19 but the opposition moved court against such programmes.He said, “Our Jan Dhan-Aadhaar-Mobile trinity made a positive difference in people's lives. It helped the poor and the marginalised. Unfortunately, people went to court against Aadhaar.” The Prime Minister was talking about how through Aadhaar, the government was able to send essential items and transfer cash over the past few years.The Aadhaar scheme was first challenged in court in 2012 on grounds that it invaded privacy and lacked statutory backing. Later in 2018, the apex court upheld the constitutionality of the Aadhaar Targeted Delivery of Financial and other Subsidies, Benefits and Services Act, 2016 (Aadhaar Act) and the 12-digit unique identity scheme.The court had then said that Aadhaar would be needed for accessing social welfare schemes but citizens cannot be forced to present Aadhaar while opening bank accounts and for getting mobile and internet connections.The government in 2016 introduced the Aadhaar Act in Parliament. The validity of the act was challenged once more in the Supreme Court on grounds that it was passed as a money bill and it had circumvented the Rajya Sabha.The Article 110 of the Constitution says that a money bill is a bill which includes provisions relating to taxation, borrowing of money by the government, appropriation of money out of the Consolidated Fund of India and expenditure from or to the Consolidated Fund of India. A money bill originates in Lok Sabha and once passed by the house with a simple majority in the Lok Sabha, it is then sent to the Rajya Sabha for its recommendations. The recommendations of the Rajya Sabha are not binding on the Lok Sabha.In 2018, former Chief Justice of India Dipak Misra declared privacy a fundamental right while upholding the validity of Aadhaar saying it involved “parting with minimal information” to fulfil the “larger public interest” of the marginalised and the poor, who can use it to obtain government benefits and subsidies, an argument which was strongly put forward by the central government in defence of the 12-digit unique identity number.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unfortunate-that-aadhaar-act-was-challenged-in-court-pm-modi-101612964727094.html
10-02-2021||India||Iqbal Singh, arrested for Red Fort violence on Republic Day, sent to 7-day police custody||A Delhi court on Wednesday sent Iqbal Singh, arrested in connection with the Red Fort violence on Republic Day, to seven-day police custody. Singh was arrested from Hoshiyarpur in Punjab on Tuesday night.The Delhi Police had announced ₹50,000 reward against him.Producing him before Metropolitan Magistrate Poorva Mehra, the police said Singh's custodial interrogation is required to show him videos of January 26 violence and identify other accused persons.The police also said that Singh one of the main conspirators of the violence.Singh claimed he did not go to Red Fort to cause violence and whatever he did or said was in the heat of the moment, according to news agency PTI.“I did not come to cause violence. I reached Red Fort just like that and had not planned to go there. When I reached emotions flared up. Whatever I did is on my live video. I did not instigate anyone,” PTI quoted Singh as saying.Earlier, the police had identified Singh as one of the persons who did a Facebook Live from the Red Fort during the violence on Republic Day.Singh's arrest came hours after the police caught actor Deep Sidhu. Sidhu was arrested on Monday around 10.30 pm.Police claimed Sidhu played a key role in instigating protesters on January 25 -26 during the violence at Red Fort. He had also congratulated the men who had hoisted religious and farmers union’s flag at the fort and also did a Facebook Live.A cash reward of ₹1 lakh was announced on Sidhu’s arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iqbal-singh-arrested-for-red-fort-violence-sent-to-7-day-police-custody-101612965612272.html
10-02-2021||India||India making studied progress in shifting to renewable energy sources: PM Modi at World Sustainable Development Summit||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday said that India is making progress in shifting to renewable energy sources. He was addressing the World Sustainable Development Summit (WSDS).The Prime Minister highlighted that India is using ethanol, has implemented Ujjwala schemes and distributed LED bulbs in rural areas in a bid to switch to renewable and sustainable modes of energy.He said, “Renewable energy is picking speed in India. We are well on track to setting up 450 GW of generating renewable energy by 2030. India’s private sector and several individuals are contributing to this (target).”PM Modi also pointed out that sustainable development is not possible without the equitable distribution of resources. The Prime Minister also said that India is committed towards achieving the targets set at the Paris Climate Change Conference in 2015.He said, “We committed to reduce the emissions intensity of GDP by 33-35 per cent from 2005 levels. You'll be happy to know that a drop of 24 percent of emission intensity has already been achieved.”PM Modi also said that climate change impacts people from lower socio-economic strata and said that climate justice should focus on growth with compassion for people belonging to lower socioeconomic strata.He said, “Climate justice also means giving the developing countries enough space to grow. When each and every one of us understands our individual and collective duties, climate justice will be achieved.”The Prime Minister said that world leaders need to understand that developing countries need space to grow. He said that the two primary things that will define the journey of progress of humanity will be the health of the people and the planet. He said, “ The health of our people and health of our planet, both are interlinked.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-making-studied-progress-in-shifting-to-renewable-energy-sources-pm-modi-101612964881580.html
10-02-2021||India||No proposal to change FDI rules for e-commerce sector: Som Parkash||There is no proposal to bring in changes in FDI (foreign direct investment) norms for the e-commerce sector, Parliament was informed on Wednesday.In a written reply to the Lok Sabha, Minister of state for commerce and industry Som Parkash also said there is no proposal at present to establish an e-commerce regulator."There is no proposal to bring in changes to FDI investment rules for e-commerce sector in India, at present," he said.To a query on prices of steel and cement, Parkash said complaints regarding cartelisation by cement companies have been received and Competition Commission of India (CCI) is the appropriate authority to deal with such types of complaints.CCI has received seven complaints related to the steel sector, which are under examination."There is no proposal under consideration at present for setting up of a regulating authority for steel or cement sectors," he added.Further replying to a question, Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal said the government on August 28, 2018 had published the draft e-pharmacy rules and those are under stakeholder consultations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-proposal-to-change-fdi-rules-for-e-commerce-sector-som-parkash-101612963252270.html
10-02-2021||India||It is important to differentiate between 'Andolanjeevis' and 'Andolankaris’': PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi, while replying to the motion of thanks on President Ram Nath Kovind's address in Lok Sabha on Wednesday, reiterated his ‘andolanjeevi’ remark. He insisted that the farmers protest is sacred but has been hijacked by the ‘andolanjivis’ who are now demonstrating with pictures of those jailed for terrorism.“Kisan Andolan is sacred, but when 'andolanjeevis' hijack it and show pictures of those jailed for terrorism what purpose does it serve?”The Prime Minister also said that the country needs to learn to differentiate between ‘andolanjeevis’ and ‘andolankaris’.The Prime Minister had on Monday vigorously defended the new farm laws in Rajya Sabha where he had made the ‘andolanjeevi’ remark.“We are familiar with shramjivi (those who labour), and buddhijivis (intellectuals). But I see that a new group has emerged in this country. If there is a lawyers movement, a students movement, a workers movement, they will be there — either in the front or behind the scenes. They cannot live without andolans (movements). They get to all places, give an ideological stand, mislead and show new ways. The country must be saved from these ‘andolanjeevis’,” the Prime Minister had said.The comment has received considerable backlash with politicians like P Chidambaram and Akhilesh Yadav citing examples of Mahatma Gandhi as the nation’s biggest ‘andolanjeevi’.“I’m a proud andolan jeevi. The quintessential andolan jeevi was Mahatma Gandhi,” Chidambaram had tweeted.Opposition parties like the Congress and Trinamool Congress staged a walkout during the Prime Minister’s response in the Parliament. He also faced vocal opposition and his speech was interrupted by sloganeering. He concluded his speech by requesting protesting farmers to resume talks with the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/it-is-important-to-differentiate-between-andolanjeevis-and-andolankaris-pm-modi-101612963259106.html
10-02-2021||India||Drones, dog squads used as rescuers face slush, debris at Uttarakhand tunnel||Drones and dog squads have been pressed into service to rescue some 35 people believed to be trapped inside a tunnel after a glacier burst in Uttarakhand on February 7 caused flash floods that left 32 dead and over 200 missing.The clearing of slush is being done by army and Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) personnel while the state disaster response force (SDRF) is involved in searching for dead bodies and relief work in the affected villages in Sunday's tragedy.Some 35 workers are trapped in the 1.7km long tunnel at the NTPC hydel power project in Tapovan, Chamoli district.Till Wednesday evening, the rescue workers were able to clear up to 100m of the tunnel with the workers feared to be trapped at a distance of 250m inside the 1.7km long tunnel. After 100m, they are facing a huge amount of slush brought in by the flash floods.Deputy director general, SDRF, Riddhim Aggarwal, who issued the permission for using drones and dog squads, said, "The drones are being used for thermal and laser scanning of the tunnel to get traces of the trapped workers."Apart from this, the helicopters are also being used for remote sensing so as to enable geographical mapping of the tunnel. This will not only clear the situation to much extent but also tell us about the amount of slush inside."The rescue workers are facing the challenge of removing boulders and heavy slush brought in by the flash floods while trying to reach the trapped workers.Navneet Bhullar, commandant SDRF, said, "There is very little progress in clearing the slush inside the tunnel as there are boulders.”"It is almost impossible to clear them manually but only by the heavy excavation machines which are doing so. But there are limitations in the exercise, " said Bhullar, adding, "we are hopeful of reaching the trapped workers with our constant efforts."After visiting the dam site on Tuesday evening, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat said that the rescue workers are now planning to get inside the tunnel using an alternate route."They are planning to drill the tunnel and get inside with the help of ropes because they are facing difficulty to clear the slush even after using heavy machinery," said Rawat.Till Wednesday evening, the rescue workers recovered 34 bodies with about 170 missing. Out of the recovered bodies, 10 were identified. The number of missing people was also revised from 206 to 204 after two workers in the Rishi Ganga project were found safe at their respective homes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drones-dog-squads-used-as-rescuers-face-slush-debris-at-uttarakhand-tunnel-101612962978704.html
10-02-2021||India||Indeed it’s God’s grace that world shook due to Covid but we were safe: PM Modi targets Manish Tewari||Prime Minister Narendra Modi hit out at Congress MP Manish Tewari on Wednesday over the ongoing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. Modi further said that the doctors, nurses, Covid warriors, sanitation workers and other such people had strengthened India’s fight against the pandemic. Replying to the Motion of Thanks on the President’s address in the Lok Sabha, he said, “Manish Tewari said that we stayed protected from Corona by God’s grace. I’d like to say something. This indeed is God’s grace that the entire world shook but we remained safe. It was because doctors & nurses came as God, because they couldn’t return to their homes for 15 days.”Further lauding the country’s achievements, the Prime Minister said that the way India handled and helped itself and the world during the Covid crisis was a turning point. He added that the post coronavirus world was turning out to be very different and that India would have to emerge as a strong player.“The post-Covid world is turning out to be very different. In such times, remaining isolated from global trends will be counter-productive. We’ll have to emerge as a strong player. That is why, India is working towards building an Aatmanirbhar Bharat,” the PM said in the Lower House.Meanwhile, Tewari- who has criticised the Centre’s handling of the pandemic on multiple occasions- hit out at the nationwide vaccination drive which started from January 16. Tewari had said that the vaccines were being permitted to be used without the compulsory phase three trials and questioned why didn’t government functionary had taken the shot.“If the vaccine is so safe and reliable and efficacy of the vaccine is beyond question then how is it that not a single functionary of the government has stepped forward to get themselves vaccinated as it has happened in other countries around the world?” he had said, according to news agency ANI.Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan responded to these allegations and said that Tewari and the Congress party were only passionate about spreading distrust and rumors. “Open your eyes, sharing photos of eminent Doctors and government functionaries getting inoculated,” the minister had tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indeed-it-s-god-s-grace-that-world-shook-due-to-covid-but-we-were-safepmmodi-101612961834131.html
10-02-2021||India||India and China start pulling back tanks from southern bank of Pangong Lake||India and China have started pulling back armoured elements - tanks and infantry combat vehicles - from heights on the southern bank of Pangong Tso, people familiar with the disengagement plan in New Delhi said.Troops are still holding positions on these strategic heights, they said on the condition of anonymity after the Chinese defence ministry announced in Beijing that the troops had started to disengage along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) near the salt-water lake.The reports of withdrawal of the armoured elements from one of the multiple friction points in the East Ladakh sector comes nearly a fortnight after military commanders of the two armies agreed on January 24 to push for an early disengagement of their frontline troops.In a statement published on the Chinese defence ministry website on Wednesday, spokesperson Wu Qian said the frontline units of the Chinese and Indian armed forces have begun to disengage at Pangong lake on February 10 in line with the consensus reached at the 9th round of military commander-level talks.The troops have begun to disengage “simultaneously and systematically”, Wu was quoted as saying in the statement.The Chinese defence ministry did not share details of the disengagement.The defence and external affairs ministries in New Delhi have not issued a statement on the movement of the armoured elements.People familiar with the developments confirmed that there had been some reduction but did not indicate any details. This is seen as the first move towards resolving the nine-month military standoff that started in May last year.Also Read: Use the Ladakh crisis as an opportunity | OpinionThe 9th round of China-India Corps Commander Level meeting was held on the Chinese side of the Moldo-Chushul border meeting point on January 24.At the meeting, according to a joint release issued the following day, the two sides had “…agreed to push for an early disengagement of the frontline troops. They also agreed to follow the important consensus of their state leaders, maintain the good momentum of dialogue and negotiation, and hold the 10th round of the Corps Commander Level Meeting at an early date to jointly advance de-escalation.”“The two sides agreed to continue their effective efforts in ensuring the restraint of the frontline troops, stabilise and control the situation along the LAC in the Western Sector of the China-India border, and jointly maintain peace and tranquillity”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-start-limited-withdrawal-of-tanks-from-southern-bank-of-pangong-tso-101612961371915.html
10-02-2021||India||With eye on Koch-Rajbangshi votes in Assam and WB, Amit Shah to visit ‘Maharaj’||Amid increased political activity in poll-bound Assam and West Bengal, Union home minister Amit Shah will arrive in Guwahati on Wednesday night on a ‘private visit’, the Assam unit of the BJP said.After spending the night at Guwahati, Shah will go to Chirang district in lower Assam on Thursday to meet Ananta Rai who heads a faction of the Greater Cooch Behar Peoples’ Association (GCPA).Rai, who claims to be a descendant of the Koch-Rajbangshi dynasty that ruled over parts of Assam and West Bengal, was bestowed the title ‘Maharaj’ (King) by GCPA in 1998 and resides in a palatial house at Satipur village in Chirang.“Amit Shah will arrive at Guwahati around Wednesday midnight. He will leave for Chirang on Thursday on a private visit and return to Delhi later in the day. We have no other information beyond that,” said Assam BJP spokesperson Rupam Goswami.Terming inclusion of Cooch Behar district in West Bengal as violation of treaty signed on August 28, 1949 between the union government and Maharaja Jagaddipendra Naryan as the Koch-Rajbangshi dynasty, GCPA has been demanding creation of a separate state or autonomous body for their people.Rai is said to have considerable influence among the 18.5 lakh Koch-Rajbangshi voters in Assam and seven districts of West Bengal including Coch Behar, which has a significant Rajbangshi population that can swing fortunes in the nine assembly seats in the district.During his visit, Shah will have lunch at Rai’s house on Thursday and is expected to seek the latter’s support for the coming assembly polls in Assam and West Bengal due in April-May. Assam Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal and senior minister Himanta Biswa Sarma are expected to accompany Shah.“Amit Shah is coming to have a meal at my place and we all are very happy about it. We will serve him a traditional Koch-Rajbangshi meal and discuss politics,” Rai had told journalists on Tuesday.Security has been tightened in Chirang ahead of Shah’s visit with central forces sanitizing Rai’s residence in Satipur and areas adjoining it. The Union home minister who visited Assam on January 24 and addressed two rallies doesn’t have any other engagement during this visit.Koch-Rajbangshis are one of the six communities in Assam that are demanding Scheduled Tribe (ST) status. Since the BJP had promised to grant that, discussion on it is also likely during Shah’s meeting with Rai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-eye-on-koch-rajbangshi-votes-in-assam-and-wb-amit-shah-to-visit-maharaj-101612961194675.html
10-02-2021||India||'We walked out of Lok Sabha because...': Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury explains Congress' decision||As Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke about the government's stand on farm laws in the Lok Sabha, the Congress MPs started shouting slogans. The uproar led to interruption in the Prime Minister's reply to motion of thanks on the President's address and a brief exchange of words between PM Modi and Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury.The Congress has been against the three contentious laws, and supported the farmers' demand to repeal them. When PM Modi delved into the government's stand on the farm laws, the Congress MPs walked out of the Lok Sabha.Chowdhury later explaied the reason behind their step."We walked out because PM didn't discuss our concerns over farmers' death. He agreed that amendments are required in farm laws, some states will be benefitted and some won't. Why do you have to bring laws that won't be benefitting everyone?" said the Congress leader."206 farmers have died during the ongoing protest, but our Prime Minister is not ready to say anything on the matter," Chowdhury added.The Prime Minister had attacked the Congress during his speech, saying it is misleading the farmers."Congress MPs in House debated on the colour of the laws. It would have been better if they had debated on the content and intent of the laws. Let us understand, as far as the protests are concerned, our farmer brothers at Delhi borders have been a victim of rumours, propaganda and confusion," he said."The farmers' protest is sacred, but when 'andolanjivis' hijack it and show pictures of those jailed for terrorism, what purpose does it serve?" PM Modi said.He also said that the three laws were brought in by the governmenr as an honest effort to improve the conditions of agriculture sector."Three farm laws were brought in by the government. The process of agricultural reforms is necessary and important. The agriculture sector has been facing challenges for years," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-walked-out-because-adhir-ranjan-chowdhury-explains-congress-decision-101612960526899.html
10-02-2021||India||Assam to discontinue mandatory Covid-19 tests at airports, railway, land routes from March 1||Assam government has decided to discontinue mandatory Covid-19 testing at airports, railway stations and land routes from March 1, 2021 following a decline in new positive cases, state Minister for Health and Family Welfare Himanta Biswa Sarma said on Wednesday. "In view of the rapidly declining cases of #COVID19 & given that vaccination is in full swing, GoA has decided to discontinue mandatory testing at rly stations, land routes & airports from March 1, 2021," he tweeted. It is, however, expected that people will adhere to "Covid appropriate behaviour", he added. Asssm has so far vaccinated 1,08,512 health workers in the state and the number of Covid-19 tests conducted has reached 66,03,122, the state health department said. The state has been reporting a decline in cases since December with the total cases reaching 2,17,256, it said. The number of deaths has also come down considerably with most days reporting no or single death. The number of deaths due to the contagion in the state is 1086 with the current death rate being 0.50 per cent. A total 1347 Covid-19 positive patients have died for other reasons. The number of active patients currently in the state is 333 while the total recovered patients is 2,14,490, it said. The current recovery rate in the state is 98.73 per cent and three migrated out of the state, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-to-discontinue-mandatory-covid-19-testing-101612959943048.html
10-02-2021||India||Cong will scrap farm laws if it comes to power: Priyanka Gandhi||Attacking the Centre over the new farm laws, Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Wednesday told a rally in western Uttar Pradesh that if voted to power her party would scrap them.At a 'kisan panchayat' organised by the party in Saharanpur, the Congress general secretary accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi and other BJP leaders of "insulting" farmers who are protesting against the laws."The three laws are demonic. If voted to power, the Congress will scrap these laws," she said.She said the party's fight will continue till the laws are scrapped.The rally is the first in a series of such farmers' meetings planned by the Congress in western Uttar Pradesh, a year before the assembly elections in the state where the opposition party is struggling to revive itself.The Congress leader was presented with a pair of ploughs at the meeting."These three laws were drafted in such a way that government `mandis’ will eventually close down, the farmers will not get the MSP (minimum support price) and there will be hoarding,” she said.“In other words, the farmers’ voice will become weak and the voice of billionaires will grow stronger," she said.Earlier, she tweeted in Hindi, "To listen to the farmers’ 'dil ki baat', understand them, share my feelings with them and support their struggle, I will be in Saharanpur today. The BJP government will have to withdraw the black farm laws."When asked to comment on the Congress event, UP minister Anand Swarup Shukla said a "drama” is being enacted in the name of farmers.He claimed that “gangs” opposing the government have gone international, and referred to tweets on the farmers’ protest by foreign celebrities.He asked Congress leaders to “oppose Prime Minister Narendra Modi, but not the country".Law Minister Brijesh Pathak said the BJP government was committed to help farmers and termed Priyanka Gandhi’s tour an "eyewash". "Some leaders just want to be in the limelight," he added.The Congress general secretary visited the Shakumbhari temple in Saharanpur and offered prayers for farmers, the UP Congress said in a tweet.She also visited Raipur Khanqah Dargah, the party said.UP Congress chief Ajay Kumar Lallu and senior party leader P L Punia attended the ‘panchayat’.Opposition parties including the Congress are supporting farmers camping on the borders of Delhi for weeks, demanding the repeal of the agri-marketing laws enacted last September.Most of the protesters are from Punjab and Haryana, but there is sizeable number from western Uttar Pradesh with Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait assuming a lead role in the agitation.Recently, Rashtriya Lok Dal leader Jayant Chaudhary also addressed farmers' mahapanchayats in western UP.Farmer unions say the laws will weaken the MSP system. But the government says they offer more options to farmers to sell their crops, and will help raise their incomes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-will-scrap-farm-laws-if-it-comes-to-power-priyanka-gandhi-101612960171280.html
10-02-2021||India||PM Modi’s reply in Lok Sabha to motion of thanks on President’s address: Top 5 quotes||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday replied to the motion of thanks on the President’s address in the Lok Sabha. From highlighting the increase in the number of women parliamentarians who took part in the proceedings to praising India’s medical fraternity for their Covid-19 efforts, the Prime Minister covered a range of topics in his address.In a speech that saw some interruptions due to protest by opposition MPs, PM Modi also defended his government’s implementation of the three new farm laws, against which many farmers are protesting at Delhi’s borders. Congress MPs staged a walkout in the middle of the speech to express their disagreement.Also read: In Lok Sabha address, PM Modi says Congress 'divided and confused'Here are top 5 quotes from the Prime Minister’s address to the lower house of the parliament -1. Sankalp Shakti - “The speech by [the] President showcased India's 'Sankalp Shakti.' His words have boosted the spirit of confidence among the people of India,” Modi said. “I want to congratulate the women MPs who enriched the House proceedings with their thoughts.”2. 100 years of freedom - “We're knocking at the doors of 75 yrs of independence. It's a matter of pride for every Indian & an occasion to move forward. We may be in any corner or belong to any strata of society but we must make a new resolve that where do we want to take India at 100 years of freedom.”3. Aatmanirbhar Bharat - “The post-COVID world is turning out to be very different. In such times, remaining isolated from global trends will be counter-productive. We'll have to emerge as a strong player. That is why, India is working towards building an Aatmanirbhar Bharat.”4. God came as doctors and nurses - “[Congress MP]Manish Tewari said that we stayed protected from Corona by God's grace. I'd like to say something. This indeed is God's grace that the entire world shook but we remained safe. It was because doctors & nurses came as God, because they couldn't return to their homes for 15 days.”5. Farmers protest -“Farm laws were passed through an Ordinance & later by Parliament. No mandis were shut after the implementation of these laws, MSP did not end anywhere in the nation. It's a truth which we hide, it has no meaning. Purchase on MSP increased after the laws were formed,” Modi assured.(With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-s-reply-to-motion-of-thanks-on-president-s-address-top-5-quotes-101612958985292.html
10-02-2021||India||In Lok Sabha address, PM Modi says Congress 'divided and confused'; party MPs walk out over farm laws||Prime Minister Narendra Modi took jibes at the Congress party as he replied to the motion of thanks of President Ram Nath Kovind's address in Lok Sabha on Wednesday.He said the Congress today is "divided and confused"."Congress, which ruled the country for almost 60 years, has taken different stands in Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha. A divided and confused party like this can do no good to country," said PM Modi.He also said that the uproar and noise against farm laws is part of a well-thought-out strategy."Noises and attempts to obstruct are part of a well-thought-out strategy. The strategy is to keep making noises otherwise the lies and rumours will be exposed, truth will come out and things will get difficult for them. You won't be able to win people's confidence like that," said PM Modi.As Congress MPs started shouting, the Prime Minister asked the party's leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury to maintain the decorum."Adhir Ranjan ji, this is too much. I respect you. You will get more publicity than Trinamool Congress in Bengal, don't worry. This doesn't look good, why are you doing this?" said PM Modi."Three farm laws were brought in by government, these agricultural reforms are important and necessary. Congress MPs in House debated on colour of the laws (black/white), it would have been better if they had debated on the content and intent of the laws," said PM Modi.The leaders of Congress walked out of Lok Sabha as the Prime Minister explained the government's stand.The three bills have sparked protests across the country, including at three key border points of Delhi. The Congress has been supporting these protests; on Tuesday, party leader Manish Tewari said that eight Congress MPs from Punjab will move a private members' bill in Parliament for the repeal of the three contentious farm laws.The group did not involve their Rajya Sabha counterparts and after announcing the plan, Tewari said that they will seek support from party colleagues and like-minded parties.A private member’s bill is a legislation proposed by an MP and not by the government. In the past, 14 such bills have translated into law of the land but since 1970, no private member bill has been cleared by the House.The three bills against which the farmers are protesting since November 26 are: Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-lok-sabha-address-pm-modi-says-congress-divided-and-confused-101612958916556.html
10-02-2021||India||NHAI does away with requirement of maintaining minimum amount in FASTag Wallet||The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) on Wednesday said it has decided to do away with the requirement of maintaining a minimum amount in FASTag wallet.The move aims at ensuring seamless movement at electronic toll plazas."In order to increase the FASTag penetration to ensure seamless movement of traffic and to reduce avoidable delays at the toll plazas, NHAI has decided to remove the mandatory threshold amount for the FASTag account / wallet, which was paid by the user in addition to the security deposit for the passenger segment (Car/Jeep/Van)," NHAI said in a statement.It said issuer banks were unilaterally mandating some threshold amount value for the FASTag account/wallet, in addition to the security deposit amount.As a result, many FASTag users were not allowed to pass through a toll plaza, in spite of having sufficient balance in their FASTag account/wallet, the statement said adding this was resulting into unwanted hassles and avoidable delay at toll plazas.It has been decided that the users will now be allowed to pass through the toll plaza, if the FASTag account/ wallet balance is non-negative, the statement said.After crossing the toll plaza, if the account balance becomes negative, the bank can recover the amount from the security deposit, which should be replenished at the time of the next recharge by the user, it added.With more than 2.54 crore users, FASTag contributes 80 per cent of the total toll collection. Daily toll collection through FASTag has crossed ₹89 crore mark.As payment on toll plazas through FASTag will become mandatory from February 15, 2021, National Highways Authority of India is targeting to achieve 100 per cent cashless tolling at the toll plazas across the country. PTI NAM MR||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nhai-does-away-with-requirement-of-maintaining-minimum-amount-in-fastag-wallet-101612957691804.html
10-02-2021||India||Three-member family found dead in Kolkata||All three members of a family were found dead at their house in Thakurpukur in south west Kolkata on Wednesday morning, police said.After preliminary investigation police said that the family was in a huge financial crisis and may have died by suicide.“A 50-year-old man, his wife aged around 45 years and their only son aged around 23 years were found dead in their bedroom. No foul play was detected. The family had borrowed huge sums of money from local people and banks. They probably died by suicide. Investigation is on,” said a senior police officer who did not wish to be named.Locals said that while the man was a government employee, his son had a business dealing in pets. Recently he sold all the birds. He was earlier working in Pune but had returned to Kolkata on his father's request and started a business.“How can a man who always used to smile and tell others to ‘be happy’ die by suicide? We never got any inkling that they would take such an extreme step. They all looked so happy and tension-free. If they had any problems they could have shared with us,” said a relative, who stays in the same locality.In the morning when a local person failed to get any response after repeatedly knocking on the door, he informed the neighbours. The family’s relatives who stay nearby were also informed.“As the doors were all bolted from inside some of them scaled the boundary wall and went to the terrace. When they found the terrace door locked too, they broke it open and entered the house to find that all of them dead in the bedroom,” said the police officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/threemember-family-found-dead-in-kolkata-101612956681908.html
10-02-2021||India||News updates from HT: Cong asks Rajnath Singh to respond to VK Singh's comment and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Congress demands Rajnath Singh's response in Parliament on VK Singh's statementThe Congress party on Wednesday demanded a statement from the government on the latest situation along the Line of Control (LAC) in the wake of standoff with China. Read More‘Won’t allow BJP here’: West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee vows at rallyWest Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday warned people that bringing the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to power would ‘encourage’ riots in the state, vowing that till the time she’s alive, she won’t allow the BJP in the state. Read MoreHonda H’ness CB350 hits 10,000 sales mark in three months since launchHonda Motorcycle and Scooter India on Wednesday announced that its H’ness CB350 has hit 10,000 sales mark since the motorcycle was first launched here in October of 2020. Read MoreNokia 5.4 First Impressions: A decent startHMD Global launched the Nokia 5.4 along with the Nokia 3.4 and the Nokia Power Earbuds Lite in India today. Read MoreICC Test Rankings: Kohli slips to fifth spot, Joe Root jumps to third after Chennai double tonIndian captain Virat Kohli has slipped to No. 5 in the latest ICC Men’s Test Player Rankings, released on Wednesday. Read MorePromise Day 2021: Commit to cooking healthy Air Fryer Orange Chicken for baeMove over takeaways or binge eating deep fried or sugar-laden Chinese food with your partner this Valentine Week and give health a chance with Air Fryer Orange Chicken. Read More45-foot-tall ‘ice volcano’ in Kazakhstan stuns people. Here’s how it formedBraving cold and ice, people are flocking to the Almaty region in Kazakhstan. Read MoreIshaan Khatter shares humble Meryl Streep quote after Kangana Ranaut's 'arrogant' tweetThe quote reads, "My achievement, if you can call it that, is that I've basically pretended to be extraordinary people my entire life, and now I'm being mistaken for one." Read More‘4 to 5 big boys own all assets’: Congress accuses BJP of crony capitalismCongress leader Kapil Sibal launched a scathing attack on the Modi government during the discussion on the Union Budget in Rajya Sabha. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-cong-asks-rajnath-singh-to-respond-to-vk-singh-s-comment-and-all-the-latest-news-101612953907979.html
10-02-2021||India||RSS to lead efforts to formulate Ganga action plan||The Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) will lead efforts to formulate an action plan for dealing with the discharge of untreated waste into the Ganga, a functionary of the organisation said. The plan will be discussed during the ongoing Magh Mela in Prayagraj on February 19 and 20.“Around 600 workers from six states will gather to brainstorm on the topic ‘Ganga for us, We for Ganga’ and finalise an action plan,” said Morarji Tripathi, the RSS functionary. He said RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat will chair two sessions of discussions and also address volunteers.Also Read | RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat says patriotism intrinsic in Hindus, cites examples from Gandhi’s life“The aim is to come out with an action plan for a pollution-free and free-flowing Ganga so that its implementation on the ground could be started from next month.”Chintamani Singh of Ganga Samagra said the first meeting on this action plan will be addressed by Krishna Gopal, RSS joint general secretary. “The importance of the meeting can be understood by the fact that volunteers from West Bengal, Bihar, Jharkhand, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, and Delhi will be attending it...”Ganga Samagra is a platform affiliated with the RSS.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rss-to-lead-efforts-to-formulate-ganga-action-plan-101612956603114.html
10-02-2021||India||Uttarakhand government starts preparing for Char Dham Yatra||A week before dates for Char Dham Yatra 2021 are declared, the Uttarakhand government has started preparing for this year’s pilgrimage season.Ravinath Raman, chief executive officer of Char Dham Devasthanam Management Board said, “We have started working on the outline of the most important construction works in Kedarnath and Badrinath. An action plan is being prepared to start construction work for Rawal and Pujari residence and Bhogmandi at Kedarnath.”The offices of the Devasthanam Board have been established at Maneri in Uttarkashi district for Gangotri shrine and Barkot for Yamunotri shrine.BD Singh, additional chief executive officer of the Board visited Badrinath shrine on Tuesday for an inspection and took stock of the outer premises of the temple, Taptakund complex, pilgrim lodges and shelters and of the bus terminus complex. He also met the soldiers deployed in during the winter season for security.“The road to Badrinath shrine is bad and snow is partially present in the shrine complex. The situation at the shrine is, however, normal and safe and preparations for the yatra can be started early,” he said.The dates of Char Dham yatra will be declared on Basant Panchami next week.The Char Dham yatra was stopped last year in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. The Char Dham shrines were subsequently opened for pilgrims on July 1 last year by the state government. Relaxing norms, in the last week of July last year, Uttarakhand government had decided to allow pilgrims from other states to visit Char Dham shrines with some conditions.In September last year, the Uttarakhand government further removed the mandatory negative Covid-19 reports which pilgrims needed to bring for visiting the shrines. Given the increase in the number of pilgrims, the Char Dham board last October decided to allow 3000 pilgrims to Badrinath and Kedarnath, 900 to Gangotri and 700 to Yamunotri daily.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-government-starts-preparing-for-char-dham-yatra-101612955470037.html
10-02-2021||India||Madras HC dismisses plea seeking directions to declare Lord Muruga Tamil God||The Madras high court’s Madurai bench has dismissed a plea seeking directions for the state government to declare Lord Muruga a Tamil God, saying it would damage the country’s secular and federal structure. The bench referred to the Constitution’s preamble on the country’s secular nature.“The petitioner may have a justifiable reason to treat Lord Muruga as the Lord of the Tamil Language. It is for him to do so. However, as a state such a request is not feasible for consideration,” the bench said on February 4. It observed that Tamil literature has been enriched by works praising Hindu Gods. But “seeking to declare one God as the sole representative of the Tamil language would mean that other literary writings in praise of Gods other than Lord Muruga cannot be recognised.”Lord Muruga is a popular deity in Tamil Nadu and is considered a Dravidian or Tamil God. The deity is worshipped mostly by backward communities. Devotees march to the deity’s abodes by tonsuring, piercing their face or body or carrying a variety of kavadi (burden).Also Read | Unease in AIADMK as Sasikala returns to Tamil NaduThe court order came months after the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), an ally of the ruling All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) in poll-bound Tamil Nadu, launched a month-long vetrivel yatra (victorious spear march) in November to Lord Muruga’s six abodes across the state. During the yatra, the BJP accused the Opposition Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) of being anti-Hindu.The vel (spear) carried by the deity is now seen during the campaigns of senior leaders of the DMK, AIADMK, and the BJP.The state government last month declared Thaipusam, an annual festival linked to Lord Muruga, a public holiday on the BJP’s request.Thirumurugan, the petitioner who earlier made a representation on January 7 to the state government for the declaration, moved the court saying ancient literature cited Lord Muruga identifying himself as the Tamil God. He claimed chief minister Edapaddi Palaniswami had made a similar statement.The court noted Palaniswami’s comments were made in the context of announcing the holiday for Thaipusam. “No reliance can be made on the same, even otherwise,” said the two-judge bench of justices M M Sundresh and S Ananthi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/high-court-dismisses-plea-seeking-directions-to-declare-lord-muruga-tamil-god-101612955703291.html
10-02-2021||India||PM Modi says Congress made noise about colour of farm laws, but didn't discuss their content and intent||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday criticised the detractors of farm laws and said that much has been said about the color of the farm laws but no one has discussed the ‘content and intent’ of the laws.PM Modi said, “Much has been said about the color of the laws but not much has been discussed about the content and intent of the laws.”The Prime Minister also said that the Centre has always wanted the benefit for farmers and the farm laws were framed to benefit the small farmers of the nation. He also said that questions are being raised regarding the necessity of implementing the farm laws and he said that laws are being brought to spur the development of the nation.He said, “There is a strange question being raised in the Parliament. Lawmakers have asked why are laws being brought when no one has asked for it. The point is laws are not brought depending on who wants it or not. Laws are brought to help the nation develop and grow.”“No one asked us to bring law on abolishing triple talaq, to abolish the practice of system of dowry and no one asked us to bring law banning child marriage. We implemented a law ensuring the right to education for all. These laws were not brought because someone asked for it. We brought these laws because there was a need for these laws to foster development and growth,” the Prime Minister further added.Prime Minister Narendra Modi also pointed out that several political parties have desired to bring similar changes to the agricultural sector. He said that former agriculture minister Sharad Pawar had himself highlighted the importance of repealing the APMC Act in the Parliament during the UPA regime.PM Modi also said that he has utmost respect for agitations demanding equal rights and said that protests and agitations are hallmarks of a healthy democracy. He outlined that he is worried that ‘andolankaris’ are being maligned because of the act of ‘andolanjeevis’. The prime minister also said that the Union ministers are engaged in talks with farmers and have their best interests at heart.The Prime Minister’s speech in the Lok Sabha was interrupted several times by Opposition leaders. Congress politicians walked out between the Prime Minister’s speech.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-says-cong-made-noise-about-colour-of-farm-laws-but-didn-t-discuss-101612955593782.html
10-02-2021||India||New world order emerging post-Covid, India can be a leader: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday replied to the motion of thanks on President's address in the Lok Sabha where he said that India has to become a world leader in the post-Covid world."New world order is emerging in post-Covid world. We have to decide if we have to be spectators, or emerge as world leader. India has to be self-reliant, empowered and capable if it has to emerge as a leader in the world," PM Modi said."We're knocking at the doors of 75 years of Independence. It's a matter of pride for every Indian and an occasion to move forward. We may be in any corner or belong to any strata of society but we must make a new resolve that where do we want to take India at 100 years of freedom," he further said.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) issued a three-line whip to its Lok Sabha members to be present in the House today and support the government's stand.The Prime Minister had replied to the motion of thanks in the Rajya Sabha on Monday in which he talked about a range of issues, including the farmers' protest near Delhi. He urged the protesting farmers to avoid being misled on farm laws while assuring that the minimum support price or MSP will stay.The MSP has emerged as one of the key issues with the farmers claiming it will be abolished putting them at the mercy of big corporate houses. They have been demanding a law as guarantee on MSP.Among other things PM Modi talked about during his Rajya Sabha address was India's battle against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the Republic Day violence and international attention to farmers' protest.He applauded the people's contribution in the fight against Covid-19, crediting them with overcoming the various hardships and following safety protocols.The Prime Minister also congratulated state governments, saying Covid-19 gave an opportunity to enshrine the values of cooperating federalism.PM Modi then turned his focus on the protests against the farm laws in which he said that there are some ‘aandolan jeevis’ (professional agitators), who, he said, are seen at every agitation. "We have to identify them," he said."Some people are trying to create unrest in India. We should not forget what happened with Punjab. In 1984, Punjab suffered the most. What happened in J&K, northeast hurt India. Sikhs are being misled. The country is proud of the Sikhs," PM Modi said referring to the recent international support to farmers' protest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-way-india-handled-and-helped-itself-and-the-world-during-covid-19-was-a-turn-101612952912722.html
10-02-2021||India||Congress demands defence minister Rajnath Singh's response in Parliament on LAC situation, VK Singh's statement||The Congress party on Wednesday demanded a statement from the government on the latest situation along the Line of Control (LAC) in the wake of standoff with China. The issue of Union minister VK Singh's statement was also raised in the HouseSpeaking in the Lok Sabha, Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said, "Union minister VK Singh has made a statement which has been widely published in the newspapers about LAC transgressions. And China has picked that up; it has given our neighbour a chance to tarnish our image.""I request the defence minister to throw some light on the latest situation on the LAC and on the minister's statement," Chowdhury added.Singh had said at a function in Madurai on Sunday that the LAC is not clearly defined and both India and China have crossed their perceptions of the undemarcated LAC many times.“Let me assure you, if China has transgressed 10 times, we must have done it at least 50 times,” he was quoted as saying by various media outlets.The Congress picked up the statement to attack the government. Rahul Gandhi has been leading the party's attack, saying that Singh, the minister of state for transport and highways, should be sacked."Why is a BJP minister helping China make a case against India? He should’ve been sacked. Not sacking him means insulting every Indian Jawan," Gandhi tweeted on Tuesday.He is expected to speak in the Lok Sabha on Wednesday during debate on the Union Budget and this issue is likely to come up in his address.The discussion on Union Budget 2021-22 is slated to be taken up after a reply to the motion of thanks on the President's Address by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.The Lok Sabha sat late on Monday and Tuesday to allow participation by members of various parties in the motion of thanks on the President's address.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-demands-rajnath-singh-s-response-on-vk-singh-s-statement-101612954093778.html
10-02-2021||India||‘Taken hostage, service pistol looted’: Chilling details of attack on UP cops||One of the accused in the killing of a police constable on Tuesday was gunned down in an encounter with the police in Kasganj district of Uttar Pradesh while a hunt is on to nab the main accused, a police official said on Wednesday.The man killed in the encounter was identified as Elkar Singh, the brother of the main accused Moti Singh Dhimar, according to the police.“Elkar Singh was shot dead in a police encounter on Wednesday morning at Nagla Dhimar village under Sidhpura police station of Kasganj district. The main accused, Moti Singh Dhimar, and a few others are absconding, and a search operation is being conducted to nab them,” said Kasganj superintendent of police (SP) Manoj Sonkar.Sonkar said that Elkar Singh was injured in the police encounter and was admitted to hospital for treatment but was declared dead by doctors.“Elkar Singh had a criminal past, and four cases were registered against him at Sidhpura police station in Kasganj. Similarly, 11 cases were registered against his brother Moti Singh Dhimar, the main accused,” Sonkar said.According to the emerging details of the assault on the policemen, the constable was beaten to death and a sub-inspector was seriously injured when a police team went to Nagla Dhimar village to serve a warrant on alleged liquor mafia kingpin Moti Singh Dhimar on Tuesday evening, said police officials.“Police constable Devendra Jasawat was beaten to death and sub-inspector Ashok Pal was injured in the assault after they were taken hostage at Nagla Dhimar village under Sidhpura police station on Tuesday evening. They had gone there to take action against liquor mafia Moti Singh Dhimar, a history-sheeter,” Sonkar said.“The sub-inspector and the constable were taken hostage by the mafia before the brutal attack. The accused took away the service revolver of the sub-inspector. About half-a-dozen goons were believed to have attacked the policemen with sharp weapons,” the Kasganj SP said.The constable’s body was found lying on farmland by police personnel from Sidhpura police station after a search on Tuesday night. The injured sub- inspector was found at another spot with his uniform torn and service revolver looted. He was initially taken to the community health centre but was later referred to Aligarh due to serious injuries received.A case was registered against Moti Singh Dhimar and his brother Elkar Singh and others after the injured sub-inspector said that about half-a-dozen people were involved in the attack on the policemen, who had reached the village on a motorcycle on Tuesday evening.Additional director general (ADG) (Agra zone) Ajay Anand and inspector general (Aligarh range) Piyush Mordia had reached Kasganj and heavy police force, besides Provincial Armed Constabulary (PAC), was deployed in the village.Anand said teams were constituted to nab the main accused Moti Singh, a history-sheeter, who has been on the police radar in the past too. Property attachment proceedings were initiated against him in September 2020, he said.Also Read: Farmers’ protest: Key Delhi borders remain closed, traffic divertedChief minister Yogi Adityanath had taken a strict view of the killing of the constable and ordered stringent action against the accused, including under the National Security Act.“The state government has zero tolerance for crime and criminals. Strict action should be taken against those guilty without any compromise on the law-and-order situation in the state,” the chief minister said in a press statement released on Tuesday evening after the incident.Kasganj district magistrate Chandra Prakash Singh stated that in compliance with the chief minister’s directive, an announcement had been made for financial relief of ₹50 lakh for family members of the deceased constable and a job to a family member.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/taken-hostage-service-pistol-looted-chilling-details-of-attack-on-up-cops-101612953556232.html
10-02-2021||India||Major Ports Authorities Bill would encourage good competition: Union minister||Union minister of state for ports, shipping and waterways Mansukh Mandaviya said on Wednesday that the Major Ports Authorities Bill, 2020 would encourage good competition among major and private ports. He added that it would also boost port land usage and amplify competition in port tariffs.The bill was passed in the Rajya Sabha on Wednesday through ballot votes with 84 in favour and 44 against it; the Lok Sabha had cleared it in September last year.Major Ports Authorities Bill will encourage good competition between major & private ports. It'll boost port land usage & amplify competition in port tariffs. India's major ports will be able to survive while competing with non-major & private ports: Union Min Mansukh Mandaviya https://t.co/fd18uocUn9 pic.twitter.com/Gl3cOqAMDBThe bill seeks to provide more autonomy in decision-making to the 12 major ports of the country- Deendayal (erstwhile Kandla), Mumbai, JNPT, Marmugao, New Mangalore, Cochin, Chennai, Kamarajar (earlier Ennore), V O Chidambarnar, Visakhapatnam, Paradip and Kolkata (including Haldia)- and also professionalise their governance through the formation of boards.Speaking to the news agency ANI, Mansukh said, “Major Ports Authorities Bill will encourage good competition between major & private ports. It’ll boost port land usage and amplify competition in port tariffs. India’s major ports will be able to survive while competing with non-major and private ports.”Several opposition parties including the Congress, the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), the Samajwadi Party (SP), the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) and the Trinamool Congress (TMC) etc opposed the bill by alleging that it was aimed towards the privatisation of ports and depleting the powers of states with regard to land use.Congress MP Shaktisinh Gohil pointed out that loopholes in the draft copy of the bill were intentionally kept with a view to assist the “backdoor entry of the friends” into the sector. Echoing Gohil’s argument, DMK leader P Wilson said that the bill had been passed to serve private players and also reduce the state governments' say in the development of ports.Responding to all these allegations of the opposition leaders, Union minister Mandaviya said that the bill was not intended towards privatising major ports. It would rather boost their decision making powers so that they can compete with world-class ports.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/major-ports-authorities-bill-would-encourage-good-competition-union-minister-101612952225204.html
10-02-2021||India||65.90% of the total prison inmates from SC, ST, OBC categories: Govt data||Of the total 4,78,600 prison inmates in the country, 3,15,409 or 65.90 per cent belong to the Scheduled Castes (SC), Scheduled Tribes (ST), and the Other Backward Class (OBC) categories, according to government data presented in Parliament on Wednesday.The prison statistics presented by Minister of State for Home Affairs G Kishan Reddy were based on a compilation of data by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) updated till December 31, 2019.Rajya Sabha member Syed Nasir Hussain had sought to know if the majority of prisoners in the country's jails are Dalits and Muslims, a category-wise break-up on their numbers and what efforts the government was making to rehabilitate and educate them.According to Reddy's written response, there were 4,78,600 prisoners across jails in the country of which 3,15,409 (65.90 per cent) belonged to the SC, ST and OBC categories, while 1,26,393 fell in the 'Others' group.A detailed break-up of the figures showed that 1,62,800 prisoners ( 34.01 per cent) belonged to the OBC category, 99,273 (20.74 per cent) to the SC category and 53,336 (11.14 per cent) to the ST category.Of the total 4,78,600 prison inmates in the country, 4,58,687 (95.83 per cent) were men and 19,913 (4.16 per cent) women, the data showed.Of the total 19,913 imprisoned women, 6,360 (31.93 per cent) belonged to the OBC category, while 4,467 (22.43 per cent) were SC, 2,281 (11.45 per cent) were ST and 5,236 (26.29 per cent) in the 'Others' category, it showed.Among states and union territories, Uttar Pradesh had the overall highest number of prisoners – 1,01,297 (or 21.16 per cent of the country's total prison inmates) -- followed by Madhya Pradesh (44,603) and Bihar (39,814).The maximum number of prisoners from the OBC, SC, and 'Others' categories were in Uttar Pradesh jails, while ST community's in Madhya Pradesh jails, according to the data.West Bengal had not furnished prison statistics for 2018 and 2019 because of which its figures from 2017 were used in the data, while Maharashtra's category-wise break-up was 'not available', the data mentioned.Responding to Hussain's query on the Centre's efforts to educate and rehabilitate prisoners, Reddy stated the administration and management of prisons and persons detained therein are responsibilities of respective state governments."However, to supplement the efforts of states in this regard, the MHA had circulated a Model Prison Manual to all states and union territories in May 2016, which has dedicated chapters on rehabilitation and education of prison inmates such as 'education of prisoners', 'vocational training and skill development programmes', 'welfare of prisoners', 'after-care and rehabilitation' etc," the minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/315-lakh-or-65-90-prison-inmates-from-sc-st-obc-categories-govt-data-101612951594225.html
10-02-2021||India||MEA clears 24 million vaccine doses to 25 countries in Feb. Canada isn’t on list||India has cleared supply of 24 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines to 25 countries on a commercial basis in February, more than twice the 10.5 million vaccines that were exported in January, people familiar with the development said on Wednesday.The government last month mandated that the external affairs ministry would oversee the export of the vaccine on a commercial basis to foreign countries and international organisations.India has supplied 16.7 million doses of the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine manufactured by the Serum Institute of India (SII) to 20 countries. This included nearly 6.3 million doses that were supplied free to 13 countries such as Bangladesh, Myanmar, Bhutan, Nepal, Afghanistan, Sri Lanka, Bahrain and Oman, Barbados and Dominica. About 10 million more doses were supplied on a commercial basis to seven countries including Brazil, Morocco and South Africa.According to the external affairs ministry’s plans for February, the SII has been cleared to supply 24 million doses on a commercial basis to 25 countries including Saudi Arabia, Brazil, Morocco, Myanmar, Nepal, Nicaragua, Mauritius, Philippines, Serbia, UAE and Qatar.This list of 25 countries does not include Canada that recently requested for 1 million doses of the vaccine, a government official said.Canada’s minister of public services and procurement Anita Anand, an Indo-Canadian, faced some embarrassing moments this week when she was unable to respond to questions from a lawmaker who asked if the government reached out to New Delhi to make up for its difficulties in getting Covid vaccines.In a widely-circulated video, Anita Anand told the lawmaker that she hadn’t phoned Prime Minister Narendra Modi but wasn’t aware if anyone else in the government had reached out to the Indian government. “She doesn’t know…. Frightening,” Michelle Rempel Garner, the shadow minister of health for the opposition Conservative Party who pressed for a clear answer, remarked towards the end of the 39-second video.The Justin Trudeau government, which targets vaccination of all residents by September 2021, has been under pressure from the opposition over complaints of inoculation shortages as the winter wave of the Covid-19 pandemic continues in Canada. Infections caused by variants emerging from Brazil and South Africa have been reported in its largest city, Toronto. Canada has recorded 810,797 cases so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mea-clears-24-million-vaccine-doses-to-25-countries-in-feb-canada-isn-t-on-list-101612950731867.html
10-02-2021||India||Supreme Court rejects plea seeking formulation of national mortal remains management, disposal protocol||The Supreme Court on Wednesday refused to entertain a writ petition seeking a direction to the UOI (Union of India) and concerned state authorities for 'National and State Mortal Remains Management Disposal Protocol'.A bench of Justice Ashok Bhushan, while refusing to entertain the writ petition filed by G Manohar, said, a similar issue had already been taken up by the top court and "we had already issued the necessary directions and order in such kind of similar matter".The writ petition filed by Manohar before the Supreme Court had claimed a mix up of her mother's body at a Delhi mortuary in sector-6 in Dwarka's hospital, namely Manipal Hospital.The writ petition filed by Manohar claimed his mother's dead body was allegedly mixed up and cremated by someone else due to lack of proper Dead Body Management Protocol.Thereby, he had approached the Supreme Court under Article 32 for framing a 'National and State Mortal Remains Management Disposal Protocol'.The apex court today opined that as a suo motu petition is pending before the court, therefore it declined to entertain the writ petition but it granted liberty to the petitioner, Manohar, to intervene in the already pending matter."The intervention is allowed in this matter," the apex court said.Manohar, 39, had to bear the trauma of losing his mother and then his fate had turned into double jeopardy, when he could not perform his mother's last rites due to the hospital's alleged lapse during Covid-19 pandemic, forcing his dead mother's last rites to be performed by another man, who also lost his mother.Manohar told ANI that he was the victim of the "callous action" and "negligence" of the Manipal Hospital, Sector 6, Dwarka, which "without any respect to him and his family, denied a decent burial to his mother, as they allegedly handed over the dead body of her mother in the most undignified manner without any verification, to a total stranger and his family to be cremated by them."Manohar has filed this writ petition, in the Supreme Court through his lawyer, Shilpa Liza George seeking proper laying down of a National/State Mortal Remains Management/Disposal Protocol to avoid similar trauma to others.Manohar stated that his mother (who died of non-Covid causes) and her body was allegedly given to one Puneet Kohli, whose mother died due to Covid and it was due to the alleged mix up of the medical negligence of the hospital, these two dead bodies were allegedly exchanged.The petitioner, Manohar, lost his mother on September 14, last year, and realised the next day that she has already been bid farewell to by a stranger family, which was difficult for his family, as they continue to deal with the psychological trauma of having lost their loved one.Manohar said he wanted to highlight the lack of management protocol in the country, as a result of which irreversible harm and agony of this sort was being caused.In his writ petition, Manohar further requested the Apex Court "to direct the Centre and states to set up a National/State Mortal Remains Management/ Disposal Protocol that will be strictly adhered to, so that such trauma and distress can be avoided.""The notion of respect is so rooted that we even agree to deal gently with the bodies of our enemies," Manohar stated in his petition.Manohar had to now live with the hard and bizarre truth that his mother's body was mistaken for some other Covid-19 victim and was given away for cremation by someone else denying him the sacred rights of doing the last rites to his mother, the petition stated.Manohar stated in his petition, a copy of which was exclusively accessed by ANI, that this is due to the absence of a proper Mortal Remains Management Disposal Protocol in the country, because of which such a disastrous and irreversible act has taken place.The complete lack of a proper system of checks and balances is leading to hospitals taking the excuse of being overburdened with dead bodies, he said, in his petition.He stated that he is aggrieved by the fact that his mother's body was so carelessly stored without proper labelling or identification, with other highly infected Covid-19 bodies in the mortuary of the respondent hospital.Then due to a mix-up of bodies, it was handed over to a stranger and his family for cremation, with complete disregard and negligence, as a result of which the petitioner and his family did not get to see or bury the mortal remains of his mother according to their religious rites and rituals, he said.The Manipal Hospitals, Dwarka, however, told ANI that it has always been at the forefront of patient care and strictly follows all protocols and guidelines for treatment and care."Handing over of the deceased is also done as per the laid guidelines. However, the new set of guidelines laid down under Covid 19 pandemic restrict the movement in the mortuary. Covid-19 has also brought in heavy pressure on healthcare workers, systems, and processes," an official from the hospital said.The act done is irreversible and there is no closure for the petitioner and his family as they not only lost their mother but also lost the right to bury her, Manohar said."To make matters worse, the hospital has not shown any remorse for its act, knowing full well that such indignity in death was afforded to petitioner's mother due to the negligent actions of the hospital and due to the lack of a proper Mortal Remains Storage and Management Protocol in Delhi," Manohar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-rejects-plea-seeking-formulation-of-national-mortal-remains-management-disposal-protocol-101612948813308.html
10-02-2021||India||MHA says pilot project for 'anti-cut' fencing on Indo-Pak border completed||Ministry of Home Affairs on Wednesday said that the pilot project for new design modular fencing on the India-Pakistan border in Punjab has been completed in March 2020.Minister of State (MoS) for Home Affairs Nityanand Rai made the revelation on a question by BJP MP Shwait Malik in Rajya Sabha on "what measures have been taken up by the government for the progress of pilot project operational for the security of India-Pakistan border in Punjab?""The Pilot Project for New Design Modular Fence along Indo-Pakistan Border in Amritsar, Punjab has been completed in March 2020," Rai responded.The project was approved in 2019 to replace the existing old design of composite fencing with a new "anti-cut" and "anti-rust" modular fencing in 7.18 kilometres India-Pakistan border length in Amritsar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mha-says-pilot-project-for-anti-cut-fencing-on-indo-pak-border-completed-101612948365095.html
10-02-2021||India||2 dead, 1 missing after car falls into irrigation canal in Telangana's Warangal||Two persons were killed and another was washed away when their car plunged into an irrigation canal in Telangana’s Warangal (rural) district on Wednesday, the police said.The deceased were identified as Saraswati (42) and Sridhar (38). Another person Rakesh was washed away in the fast flowing canal and could not be traced till afternoon. The incident happened on the outskirts of Konkapaka village of Parvathagiri block, at around 10.30 am.According to R Yadanna, assistant sub-inspector of Parvathagiri police station, Sridhar, Vijayabhaskar and Rakesh, private firm employees from Warangal city, were headed on a field visit to Parvathagiri in their car. At Theegarajupalli cross roads, they picked up an acquaintance, Saraswati, a teacher in government school, Guntupalli.“As they reached Konkapaka village, Vijayabhaskar, who was driving the car lost control while avoiding a collision with a two-wheeler coming from the opposite direction. The vehicle fell off the road and plunged into a major irrigation canal of Sri Ram Sagar Project (SRSP),” Yadanna said.As the water was flowing at a high speed, the car was washed away for some distance. While Vijayabhaskar managed to swim to the shore, Rakesh who was in the front seat managed to get out of the car, but was washed away by the swirling currents.“The other two, Vijayalakshmi and Sridhar, who were in the back seat, could not come out and died. They may have become unconscious when the car fell into the water,” the police official said.On receiving the information from the locals, the Parvathagiri police reached the spot and managed to pull the car out from the canal. “We are yet to trace the whereabouts of the third person,” Yadanna said.Also Read: Jagan Reddy's sister Sharmila to launch new party in TelanganaPreliminary investigations suggest the car was travelling at a high speed on the narrow road, said a police official.“We have shifted the bodies of the victims to the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial government hospital in Warangal for post-mortem and are investigating the case,” the police official said.State minister for panchayati raj Errabelli Dayakar Rao, who also hails from Parvathagiri offered his condolences to the bereaved families.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-dead-1-missing-after-car-falls-into-irrigation-canal-in-telangana-s-warangal-101612948202801.html
10-02-2021||India||Parliament passes bill to provide greater autonomy to 12 major ports||Parliament on Wednesday passed a bill that seeks to provide greater autonomy in decision-making to 12 major ports in the country and professionalise their governance by setting up boards.The Major Ports Authority Bill, 2020 was passed through ballot votes with 84 in favour and 44 against it in the Rajya Sabha.The Lok Sabha had on September 23, 2020 passed the bill. Allaying fears of members, Ports, Shipping and Waterways Minister Mansukh Mandaviya categorically said it was not intended towards privatisation of major ports and rather aimed at boosting their decision-making powers in order to compete with private ports.The bill aims to provide for regulation, operation and planning of major ports in India and to vest the administration, control and management of such ports upon the boards of major port authorities and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto, be taken into consideration.  Taking a strong objection to some members remarks that it would result in ruining of the ports, the Minister said rather it would turn them into world class ports and enable board to take decision on their own.In terms of volume, 70 per cent of cargo movement is through ports while 90 per cent in value terms.India has 12 major ports -- Deendayal (erstwhile Kandla), Mumbai, JNPT, Marmugao, New Mangalore, Cochin, Chennai, Kamarajar (earlier Ennore), V O Chidambarnar, Visakhapatnam, Paradip and Kolkata (including Haldia).These together had handled 705 million tonnes (MT) of cargo in 2019-20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-passes-bill-to-provide-greater-autonomy-to-12-major-ports-101612946942987.html
10-02-2021||India||UP: Gonda residents file complaint against police sirens, seek night ban||The police’s ubiquitous vans and patrol bikes may have increased their presence and reduced response time, but have also flooded them with complaints about the misuse of sirens, said people familiar with the matter.“Many people [have complained about] the sirens blaring intermittently throughout the night and disturbing their sleep and causing stress. [Police personnel] in vans and on bikes can often be seen honking sirens not to deal with any law-and-order urgency, but to chase roadside vendors away...this causes avoidable irritation...” said one of the people cited above.Residents of Gonda, around 120 km from Lucknow, have filed a complaint demanding a ban on sirens at night. They complained of loud sirens from motorcycles every hour at night and added they disturb their sleep. The complainants cited a Supreme Court order banning sirens in residential localities between 10pm and 6am, provided there is no emergency.“You are, therefore, requested to direct the in charge of the Sadbhavana chowki not to play the siren from 10 in the night to 6 in the morning,” the complaint said.Also Read | Home guard dismissed for showing affection to LGBT partner reinstated by courtGonda police superintendent Shailesh Pandey said they received the complaint but found the demand unwarranted. He added using sirens is an old practice and an essential part of their duty. Pandey said sirens are within the permissible limits of sound. “Sirens at night instill a sense of security among people besides often scaring anti-social elements away.”Alok Roy, another police officer, said sirens were being used is on the outskirts of the city that are prone to criminal incidents, especially during winter.Police chief HC Awasthi said they will look at the wider perspective and not go by anybody’s liking or disliking. “Maintaining law and order, as well as prevention and detection of crime, are police’s primary duty. If anything is necessary for these, then it has to be done.” Awasthi said traffic diversions trouble some people, but they are done for a wider public cause.Former police chief Sulkhan Singh said the residents’ demand is justified. “Using the horn unnecessarily is an offense. ...use of sirens is permitted only when a police vehicle or an ambulance is rushing to attend an emergency. Sirens cannot be used if roads are clear or when the police are moving in the normal course.”Additional transport commissioner Arvind Kumar Pandey said police vehicles can use sirens as may be approved by the registering authority. “However, in practice, no such approvals are sought.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-gonda-residents-file-complaint-against-police-sirens-seek-night-ban-101612947122448.html
10-02-2021||India||Begin Covid-19 test at Port Blair airport for islanders, MP urges admin||Andaman and Nicobar MP Kuldeep Rai Sharma on Wednesday urged the administration to conduct Covid-19 tests at the Port Blair airport instead of asking the islanders to get themselves tested before flying back.Sharma said that the directive asking people to get tested within 48 hours of boarding a flight to Port Blair would cause immense hardships for the islanders.Most of the people returning from the mainland had gone there for medical treatment or some important work, and they are financially weak and need to travel long distances by bus or train to major cities such as Delhi, Chennai, Kolkata, to take flights for Port Blair, he said.Also read| Prayers answered, says Dominican PM as India’s vaccine lands in Caribbean islandBecause of the RT-PCR test, they have to stay in hotels and lodges for two days until the report comes, adding to their expenses, Sharma added.Also, if they are found to be positive they would have to cancel the flight tickets at the last moment, causing further losses as tickets are mostly non-refundable, he said.The Congress MP urged the administration to take note of these issues and begin testing for those returning home at the Port Blair airport.However, Sharma said the directive of carrying a Covid-negative test report may be in place for tourists coming to the islands from the mainland for the safety of the locals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/begin-covid-19-test-at-port-blair-airport-for-islanders-mp-urges-admin-101612944003900.html
10-02-2021||India||Congress lying, misleading people about farm laws, says Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar||Union Agriculture and Farmers' Welfare Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Wednesday slammed Congress for misleading the people by lying about the new farm laws pointing that the party is losing its support base.The Union Minister tweeted on Wednesday, "The farmer-friendly Central Government has enacted the Agricultural Reforms Act, in the larger interest of the farmers, but the Congress, which is losing its support base, is trying to mislead the people of the country by lying one lie after another.""Congress MPs in the country's Parliament are also telling lies on the agrarian reform laws. Congress MP Ravneet Singh Bittu again misled and our minister Anurag Thakur immediately exposed his lies," Tomar said in another tweet today.The Minister had earlier said that the opposition has failed to point flaws in new farm laws and the opposition did not discuss provisions of these legislations during the motion of thanks to the President's Address in Rajya Sabha."For two months I kept asking the farmers' union what is 'black' in these laws? Tell me if it should be fixed. Opposition leaders called criticising the agrarian reform. But no one tried to explain how are they harming the farmers," Tomar had said.Several rounds of discussion have been held between the government and the protesting farmer unions. The government has said that it is willing to put the farm laws on hold for about 18 months.Farmers have been protesting on the different borders of the national capital since November 26 last year against the three newly enacted farm laws: Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/narendra-singh-tomar-slams-congress-for-lying-misleading-people-on-farm-laws-101612945122675.html
10-02-2021||India||'Holding itself above laws': Tejasvi Surya on Twitter blog post||BJP leader Tejasvi Surya on Wednesday criticised Twitter's inaction on certain handles and said that the microblogging platform is holding itself above the laws of the country. "It is picking and choosing what low to follow and what not to," he said. His criticism came after Twitter on Wednesday posted a blog elaborating the actions it took against several handles after Centre had requested them. But it also mentioned its inaction on the accounts of media entities, journalists, activists, and politicians citing "violation of freedom of expression" as the reason.Twitter seems to hold itself above the laws of the Indian State. It is picking and choosing what law to follow and what not to. I had raised this issue in Zero Hour in Lok Sabha yesterday, but zero hour wasn’t taken up yesterday. Requesting @GoI_MeitY to act stringently. https://t.co/jGbtzqj84yThe blog post escalated the ongoing tussle between the Centre and Twitter as the ministry said the statement of Twitter at a time when it sought to meet government representatives is unusual. The government had asked Twitter to block over 250 Twitter accounts accusing them of "inciting genocide". But Twitter took time to act on that and some of the accounts were restored after a brief suspension. The ministry again wrote to Twitter and warned of penal actions. Twitter, meanwhile sought to meet government representatives in this regard and provided an update in a blog on Wednesday before the meeting.Sorry dude, I don’t want Twitter to ban anyone - Congressi or BJP or anyone.#FoE is sacrosanct. It cannot be curtailed whimsically by pvt big tech companies without accountability. But one certainly can’t expect such statesmanship from a party that imposed Emergency. https://t.co/wPQ2vOD1HRWhen Twitter permanently suspended Donald Trump's account, Tejasvi voiced his concern over tech giants exercising monopolies without accountability. At that time, he had also said that he doesn't want Twitter to ban anyone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/holding-itself-above-laws-tejasvi-surya-on-twitter-blog-post-101612944711404.html
10-02-2021||India||Prayers answered, says Dominican PM as India’s vaccine lands in Caribbean island||Dominican Prime Minister Roosevelt Skerrit on Tuesday showered praises on Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the people of India for New Delhi’s swift response to his request for 35,000 Covid-19 vaccines that can shield nearly half his country’s 72,000-strong population from the deadly virus. PM Skerrit, who sought the vaccines on January 19, said he hadn’t really hoped to get the vaccines so soon.The vaccines were flown to Dominica’s Douglas–Charles Airport in neighbouring Barbados’ Air National Guard’s plane on Tuesday.PM Skerrit and his cabinet colleagues formally received the vaccines; they even helped unload some of the boxes of the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine from the plane.A gesture of goodwill, an example of support. Made in India vaccines arrive in Dominica. #VaccineMaitri pic.twitter.com/HeYYkjpDoR“I must confess that I did not imagine that the prayers of my country would be answered so swiftly…. One would have thought and understood that in a global pandemic such as this, a nation's size and might would have been the primary considerations. But it is to the credit of Prime Minister Narendra Modi that our request was considered on merit and the equality of our people was recognised,” PM Skerrit said at a formal ceremony at the airport held soon after the plane with the vaccines arrived.Also Watch | ‘India conducting biggest Covid vaccine programme in the world’: PM ModiIndia’s donation of 35,000 vaccines to Dominica is part of PM Modi’s pledge to help other countries overcome the pandemic challenges. Apart from countries in India’s neighbourhood, India has cleared commercial supply of nearly 24 million vaccines to 25 countries including Uganda, Ecuador, El Salvador, Nicaragua, Morocco, and Namibia in February“Tonight signifies the start of the fightback by the Caribbean islands against the virus that has threatened the livelihood of every CARICOM (Caribbean Community) national,” he said. The Caribbean Community, or CARICOM, is a grouping of twenty countries including 15 member states and 5 associate members.The Dominican prime minister echoed the sentiment in a ‘thank you’ note that he wrote to PM Modi.“In 2020, like many nations across the globe, we were dealt an extraordinary blow by the Covid-19 crisis. However, your vaccines will allow us to move forward with renewed hope and optimism, and to reignite the many projects that Covid-19 pandemic has negatively impacted," PM Skerrit said in his 9 February letter to PM Modi. HT has accessed the letter.“Thanks to the kindness of the Indian nation, 35,000 Dominicans will be vaccinated by April 2021… India has once again come to Dominica's aid, and this too will not be forgotten,” he wrote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prayers-answered-says-dominican-pm-as-india-s-vaccine-lands-in-caribbean-island-101612944040100.html
10-02-2021||India||PM Modi to reply to motion of thanks on President’s address in Lok Sabha today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will reply to the motion of thanks on President Ram Nath Kovind’s address in Lok Sabha on Wednesday evening. “At around 4 PM today in the Lok Sabha, Prime Minister @narendramodi will reply to the Motion of Thanks on the President’s address,” his office tweeted.Modi had delivered his reply to the President's address in the Rajya Sabha on Monday where he asserted that his government was working for the welfare of small farmers and assured that the minimum support price (MSP) will continue. “Since 2014 we have initiated changes in the agriculture sector aimed at empowering the farmer. The crop insurance scheme was changed to make it more farmer friendly. The PM-KISAN scheme was also brought in,” he told Parliament, adding that the need of the hour is to improve the lives of the small farmers.While speaking on the contentious agricultural laws that have triggered protests by farmers for the past two months at Delhi borders, Modi quoted former prime minister Manmohan Singh.“There are other rigidities because of the marketing regime set up in the 1930s which prevent our farmers from selling their produce where they get the highest rate of return. It is our intention to remove all those handicaps which come in the way of India realising its vast potential as one large common market,” he cited a previous remark by Singh and said that there is a clear U-turn by the Congress now.The Prime Minister also slammed those behind the farmer’s demonstration against the agricultural laws enacted in September last year, saying a new "breed" of agitators has emerged who cannot live without an agitation and the country should be beware of them. “A new FDI (Foreign Destructive Ideology) has emerged in the country, he said.The Prime Minister also lauded the role India played in the battle against the coronavirus disease, for which he said, “the world now looks up to us.” This was an unprecedented crisis so nobody knew how to handle this unknown enemy. However, today the whole world recognises that India played a significant role in saving humanity,” he said in his speech during the ongoing budget session.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-reply-to-motion-of-thanks-on-president-s-address-in-lok-sabha-today-101612943763711.html
10-02-2021||India||Uttarakhand glacier burst: Drones, dog squad roped in for rescue operations||With little breakthrough in the ongoing rescue operations in about 1.7km-long tunnel at the NTPC hydel power project in Tapovan, Chamoli district of Uttarakhand, the rescue agencies are now using drones and dog squad to look for about 35 workers trapped inside. Indian army and Indo-Tibetan Border Police personnel are clearing the muck while the state disaster response force (SDRF) is in searching for bodies and relief work in the affected villages in Sunday’s tragedy. Till Wednesday morning, the rescue workers were able to clear up to 100m of the tunnel with the workers feared to be trapped at a distance of 250m inside the tunnel. Beyond that point, muck brought in by the flash floods has filled the area. SDRF deputy director general Riddhim Aggarwal who issued the permission for using drones and dog squad said, “Drones are being used for thermal and laser scanning of the tunnel to get traces of the trapped workers.” Also Read | 13 villages cut off as lone bridge near Rishiganga project washes away“Apart from this, helicopters are also being used for remote sensing so as to enable geographical mapping of the tunnel. This will not only clear the situation to much extent but also tell us about the amount of muck inside,” said Aggarwal. Earlier on Tuesday evening, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat, after visiting the dam site, said that the rescue workers are now planning to get inside the tunnel using an alternative way. “They are planning to drill the tunnel and get inside with the help of ropes because they are facing difficulty in clearing the muck even after using heavy machinery,” said Rawat. Till Wednesday morning, rescue workers were able to recover total 32 bodies with 174 still missing. Out of the total 206 missing persons, about 190 are workers from the two dam projects-- Rishiganga and the NTPC Tapovan project. State director general of police Ashok Kumar said, “Till Wednesday morning, 32 bodies have been recovered, including those of an assistant sub-inspector from Alaknanda river and a constable from debris of Rishiganga dam project.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-glacier-burst-drones-dog-squad-roped-in-for-rescue-operations-101612943522138.html
10-02-2021||India||Witness the journey of Shipra Pathak, the water woman from India||As seen over the past few decades, water scarcity has become a global issue. Scientists and experts all around the world are putting dates on when water will not be available in certain areas. Now more than ever is the time to step up and collectively work towards conserving the planet's water resources.To bring this change across the globe and in India, Glojal (Global Water Mission) Foundation is dedicating their entire life. Ambassador of the organization is Shipra Pathak, or colloquially known as the water woman. She is revered as the Global Water Ambassador owing to her selfless dedication towards the cause.Known also as Mokshadaayini Maa Shipra, the spiritual sage has devoted her life towards the betterment of the global water scenario. She is committed to promoting basic human value, fostering inter-religious harmony, advocating for the welfare of the global village, and reviving ancient Indian knowledge. A truly unique sage for an unbridled expression on life, mysticism, and spirituality.Maa Shipra strives to work towards reviving a dying planet and urges thousands to take a stand with her for the conservation, preservation and sustainable development of water on a global scale. The Water Woman believes every citizen needs to work with the government to achieve the goal.Water Woman, Shipra Pathak, on the need to act now, says, "Natural resources around the world are depleting and it is time every human being acts upon it. Conserving and planning for a sustainable future has become the need of the hour. At Glojal Foundation, we are committed to fighting against injustice as well as conserving clear water around the world. Along with this, we also promote a future where peace prevails and hatred is completely eradicated. We all need to work towards providing an improved future for our coming generations."Glojal has inspired thousands of followers who have now made water conservation and preservation their main goal in life. The organization creates locally and globally synchronized events, yajnas, and prayers with a focus on saving global water, global peace and celebrating our humanity. The followers are invited to also meditate, host local events and ceremonies, and pray in their own way for the ultimate goals. Glojal's main mission is to educate and connect purpose-driven leaders to create an abundant and sustainable world for everyone.Maa Shipra believes that everyone is a part of One Human Family and the duties are to conserve and value our natural resources. By unifying race, religion and nationality, a living demonstration of underlying unity and an emerging planetary culture is created. This culture embraces the interdependence and well-being of all and forms a unified effort to conserve Mother Nature.Through local and global events, Glojal invites people from around the world to be a part of Sustainable Development Goal - 6 (SDG) and SDG - 16. Through this, Glojal aims to build a global network of organizations, leaders, and innovators who are working together to create a better world.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/witness-the-journey-of-shipra-pathak-the-water-woman-from-india-101612941131985.html
10-02-2021||India||Chamoli flood: 13 Uttarakhand villages cut off as lone bridge near Rishi Ganga project washes away||As many as 13 villages in Uttarakhand were cut off after the lone bridge connecting them to the rest of the state was washed away in the flash floods near the Rishi Ganga project in the Chamoli district on Sunday.The rescue agencies have set up a zip line to connect with them and provide relief material to the villages that inhabit nearly 2,500 people, Uttarakhand Police Director General Ashok Kumar said on Tuesday. The relief material is also being sent via choppers to the affected areas, he added.As the only Border Roads Organisation (BRO) bridge connecting the villages to the outside world washed away following flood due to the glacial burst in Chamoli, Disaster Mitigation and Management Centre official Piyoosh Rautela on on Wednesday told news agency ANI that they will soon set up a temporary bridge.Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat also visited the 13 border villages on Tuesday and met the locals. He asked them about the issues they were facing and assured them of all possible assistance.The road connectivity has been cut off from the villages of the Frontier Region—Palli, Pang, Lata, Suraithota, Suki, Bhalgaon, Tolma, Fagarasu, Long Segdi, Gahar, Bhanguel, Juvagwad, Jugju.Following the visit, Rawat said, "Apart from this the relief material is also being provided to the affected people of the villages cut off after the bridge collapsed. Ration packets are being air-dropped as well as provided by the rescue workers on foot. I would urge all the people to keep calm as the government has all the required resources to tackle the situation."The chief minister added that the main focus is on searching the missing and rescuing those trapped inside the tunnel. “The rescue workers are trying to get inside the tunnel with a rope after drilling it. We hope that they will succeed in that," he said on Tuesday.Rescue operations are underway at the Tapovan tunnel, where nearly 30 people are believed to be trapped. The rescue teams have so far recovered 32 bodies and over 200 people are reportedly missing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chamoli-flood-13-uttarakhand-villages-cut-off-as-lone-bridge-near-rishi-ganga-project-washes-away-101612942427523.html
10-02-2021||India||Twitter says will not fully comply with govt orders to take down some accounts||Twitter Inc said on Tuesday it would not fully comply with orders from Prime Minister Narendra Modi's government to take down some accounts as it does not believe the orders are consistent with Indian law.It has permanently suspended some accounts but for others, it has only restricted access within India and the tweets can still be read outside the country.The US social media giant has found itself in a heated no-win row with Modi's administration, which wants it to take down more than 1,100 accounts and posts that the government argues are spreading misinformation about months-long farmers' protests against new agricultural laws.Some accounts, the government said, are backed by arch-rival Pakistan or are operated by supporters of a separatist Sikh movement.The government has played hardball, sending Twitter a notice of non-compliance last week that threatens its executives with jail terms of up to seven years and the company with fines if it does not block the content.Twitter said it had suspended more than 500 accounts that were engaging in clear examples of platform manipulation and spam, and had also taken actions on hundreds of others that breached its rules relating to the inciting of violence and abuse.Others were geo-blocked, although Twitter did not go into detail on how it made decisions on which accounts to restrict."These accounts continue to be available outside of India," Twitter said. "Because we do not believe that the actions we have been directed to take are consistent with Indian law."India had also asked Twitter to restrict access to news accounts, arguing that the "freedom of press does not include freedom to spread misinformation", according to a copy of a government order reviewed by Reuters.Twitter said it had not taken action on accounts run by journalists, news media, activists and politicians, in line with its policy of defending freedom of speech."To do so, we believe, would violate their fundamental right to free expression under Indian law," Twitter said, adding that it had informed the technology ministry of its actions.Twitter has been seeking talks with India's technology minister. A ministry source said that request has been declined and the company has been advised to seek a meeting with the top ministry official instead.India's technology ministry did not immediately respond to a request for comment.Twitter has also said it is exploring its options under Indian law.Tens of thousands of farmers have camped on the outskirts of New Delhi for months demanding the withdrawal of new agriculture laws they say benefit private buyers at the expense of growers. The government says the reforms open up new opportunities for farmers.(Reporting by Sankalp Phartiyal; Editing by Edwina Gibbs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/twitter-says-will-not-fully-comply-with-govt-orders-to-take-down-some-accounts-101612940686622.html
10-02-2021||India||On Koo, Centre says Twitter's 'free expression' blog before meeting is 'unusual'||The ministry of electronic and IT on Wednesday said Twitter's blog post explaining what it did acting on the ministry's request and what it did not is "unusual" as the microblogging platform sought to engage with the IT secretary and before that meeting comes the blogpost. The ministry said it will share its detailed response soon. But in its initial response, it has been made clear that Twitter's blog post did not go down well with the government .Twitter explains why it didn't take action on some handles despite Centre's pushInterestingly, the minister posted this message on Koo too, the made-in-India microblogging platform to which several Union ministers and departments have moved with their official handles. Immediately, the post gained traction in the forms of likes and re-koos. "Upon the request of Twitter seeking a meeting with the Govt., the Secretary IT was to engage with senior management of Twitter. In this light a blog post published prior to this engagement is unusual. Govt. will share its response soon," the ministry wrote.Upon the request of Twitter seeking a meeting with the Govt., the Secretary IT was to engage with senior management of Twitter. In this light a blog post published prior to this engagement is unusual. Govt. will share its response soon.The controversy stems from Republic Day violence in Delhi at farmers' tractor rally, shortly after which the Centre asked Twitter to take action against over 250 Twitter handles as they were "inciting genocide". Some action was taken but some handles were restored after a few hours. The Centre again nudged Twitter to take action and warned of penal measures against the social media platform. Parallel to this, ministers and government departments threw their weight behind Koo, the homegrown challenge to Twitter. Twitter sought a meeting with the ministry and said it was concerned over the safety of its staff.As Twitter seeks talks, ministers and celebrities move to Indian-made app KooBut before that meeting, Twitter posted an elaborate blog in which it listed out the actions it has taken against handles on the insistence of the government. But it also said that it did not take action against media entities, journalists, activists, and politicians as that would violate "their fundamental right to free expression under Indian law", Twitter said."We informed MeitY of our enforcement actions today, February 10, 2021. We will continue to maintain dialogue with the Indian government and respectfully engage with them," it wrote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-reacts-to-twitter-s-freedom-of-speech-blog-post-says-it-s-unusual-101612942145651.html
10-02-2021||India||Imposition of Sec 144 to maintain law is standard practice: Saharanpur DM||Saharanpur District Magistrate Akhilesh Singh on Wednesday clarified that imposition of Section 144 is a standard practice to maintain the law and order."Imposition of Section 144 is a standard practice which is used to maintain law and order. This practice has been going on from quite some time," Singh told reporters."It has been imposed for maintaining law and order upcoming festivities and to enforce Covid-19 norms," he added.Reacting to the kisan mahapanchayat in the district, he said, "We are keeping a keen eye on the mahapanchayat. If any law will be broken, we will take care of the matter as per law."Also read| Petrol, diesel price: Wrong to say 'all-time high', says minister in ParliamentEarlier, an order was issued concerning Section 144 in Saharanpur district, which cited various reasons including upcoming festivities, Covid-19 pandemic, law and order and the possibility of violence by the anti-social elements. The restrictions have been imposed till April 5.The move comes ahead of the Congress General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra's visit to attend kisan mahapanchayat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imposition-of-sec-144-to-maintain-law-is-standard-practice-saharanpur-dm-101612941459877.html
10-02-2021||India||News updates from HT: Congress wants Rahul Gandhi to start budget debates and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Congress leaders want Rahul Gandhi to initiate debate on budget todaySeveral Congress leaders are trying to ensure former party chief Rahul Gandhi initiates the all-important debate on the general budget from the Opposition side on Wednesday. Read morePetrol, diesel price: Wrong to say 'all-time high', says ministerCountering Congress MP KC Venugopal's claim that petrol and diesel prices have reached an all-time high, minister of petroleum and natural gas Dharmendra Pradhan on Wednesday said that it was a misnomer. Read more‘Proud andolan jeevi’: P Chidambaram’s take on phrase coined by PM ModiSenior Congress leader P Chidambaram on Wednesday described himself as a ‘proud andolan jeevi,’ two days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi coined the phrase. Read moreGavaskar reckons confirmed spot for youngster in India's XI for 2nd TestSunil Gavaskar on Tuesday reckoned that India may go for some alterations in the second Test against England at the same venue starting Saturday. However, he was opined that Sundar ‘won’t be that change’. Read morePriyanka Chopra on dealing with 'Plastic Chopra' tag after botched surgery left her with 'obviously different nose'Priyanka Chopra has spoken about why her nose suddenly started looking drastically different in the early 2000s. It happened because of a botched surgery, and left the actor 'horrified' at what had happened. Read moreAudi showcases e-tron GT, its most ambitious EV everAudi is charging up the electric space and how. The Germany luxury car maker has taken the wraps off of its e-tron GT which promises to take performance levels up by several notches while muting fears related to range anxieties. Read moreKriti Kharbanda’s fitness trainer gives a glimpse of her Pilates workoutJoining the ‘gang’ of Bollywood celebrities who swear by Pilates workout, Kriti Kharbanda recently gave a glimpse of her intense exercise session. Read moreKindergarten teacher’s affirmation song for her students is inspiring to watchThe clip, shared on Instagram, shows Monique Waters with her kindergarten class. The video may leave you inspired and amazed, both at the same time. Read morePolice constable killed, sub-inspector injured by gangsters in UP's KasganjA police constable was beaten to death and a sub inspector badly injured in a village in Uttar Pradesh’s Kasganj. The cops were taken hostage and thrashed by criminals at Nagla Dhimar village on Tuesday evening. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-congress-wants-rahul-gandhi-to-start-budget-debates-101612939747107.html
10-02-2021||India||Rakbar Khan lynching: Rajasthan court rejects family’s plea for shifting trial||A court in Rajasthan’s Alwar has rejected a plea for shifting the trial in the lynching of a 28-year-old man in 2018.Vigilantes attacked Rakbar Khan in Alwar for transporting two cows amid a spate of lynchings. Police took over two hours to take Khan to a hospital, where he later died. They instead opted to take the two cows to a shelter first 17 km away.Also Read | Rajasthan high court grants bail to second accused in Rakbar lynching caseDistrict sessions judge Sangeeta Sharma on Tuesday rejected the plea of Khan’s mother, Habiban, and Aslam, a survivor and witness to the lynching, saying she cannot interfere in the working of additional district Judge Sarita Swami, citing lack of jurisdiction. She added Swami’s is designated as the special court for hearing mob lynching matters.Habiban and Aslam said they have no hopes of getting justice as the accused were threatening them openly.Aslam survived the attack while the two were on their way home in the neighbouring Haryana.Two of the four accused, Dharmendra Yadav and Paramjeet Singh, are out on bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rakbar-khan-lynching-rajasthan-court-rejects-family-s-plea-for-shifting-trial-101612941722631.html
10-02-2021||India||Panthers Party president Mankotia quits to keep ‘family matter’ private||Panthers Party president Balwant Singh Mankotia resigned from the party on Wednesday, saying his decision was aimed to keep a family matter from becoming public.In a video message Mankotia, former Udhampur MLA, said he was saddened to announce his dissociation from Panthers Party."With sadness I inform that I have resigned from all the posts and primary membership of the Panthers Party. Had I not resigned, a family matter could have soon come out in public domain," he said."I apologise to the party leaders and workers that I could not consult them but I had very less time and hence had to take the call," he added.Mankotia hoped that the party leaders and workers would not lose their patience.He also appealed to party patron Prof Bhim Singh to entrust all the responsibilities to party chairman and former minister Harsh Dev Singh."I appeal to Prof Bhim Singh to give all the responsibilities to Harsh Dev Singh because he has the capability and interest to do so," he added."I was appointed president but I won't be able to shoulder the responsibility anymore," he said.Mankotia, a very popular leader among the people in Udhampur, informed that he would hold a meeting with his supporters at 11 am on Thursday.Bhim Singh was expelled from the party by Harsh Dev Singh after the former attended a meeting with the National Conference (NC) president Farooq Abdullah over Gupkar alliance at his Bhatindi residence in November last year.Must Watch: ‘Proud to be a Hindustani Muslim’: Ghulam Nabi Azad in farewell speechHarsh Dev Singh had then said that Bhim Singh had “grown old” and at times made “unwise statements and decisions”, therefore, was removed from all the posts of the party.“Prof Bhim Singh went there in his personal capacity. At this age his actions and statements are usually bereft of reality. He has been removed from the post of patron and henceforth has no rights to take any decision on party affairs. I am announcing as a chairman of the party,” he had told reporters.Harsh Dev Singh and Mankotia could not be immediately reached for comments as their cell phones were switched off.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/panthers-party-president-mankotia-quits-to-keep-family-matter-private-101612941229295.html
10-02-2021||India||Petrol, diesel price: Wrong to say 'all-time high', says minister in Parliament||Countering Congress MP KC Venugopal's claim that petrol and diesel prices have reached an all-time high, minister of petroleum and natural gas Dharmendra Pradhan on Wednesday said that it was a misnomer.On Wednesday, the petrol price was raised by 30 paise a litre and the diesel price ₹25 paise per litre in Delhi. On Tuesday, there was a hike of 35 paise in the Capital.Replying to questions in Parliament, the minister said the Union government has little to do with petrol, diesel prices and the prices are dependant on international crude oil price. Terming this explanation 'misguiding', Congress MP KC Venugopal said petrol in his village reached ₹100 per litre. "Petrol and diesel prices are highest of all time now but the crude oil price is not the highest of all time now," Venugopal said asking whether the government will take some step to regularise the prices.Replying to questions of Hon. MP Shri Banda Prakash and Shri @SantanuSenMP in Rajya Sabha on the selling price of petrol and diesel. #BudgetSession2021 pic.twitter.com/nP8PUi51PO"Venugopal ji is a wise member and a good politician. With utmost politeness, I would like to share this fact today the international crude oil price is 61 dollar. he belongs to the state of Kerala where a lot of people are staying in the Gulf area. Before coming to the House, he should at least check with some of his close friends from that area what is the price," Dharmendra Pradhan said."This is an issue we have to tackle with utmost care. States are responsible. Union government is also responsible for this tax issue. Centre has increased excise duty and states have increased VAT according to their own developmental need. And sometimes, the government has reduced excise duty as well. In the last 300 days, the prices have not changed at all for 250 days. So it is a misnomer to campaign in that way that the prices are an all-time high," the minister said.Budget 2021: How will cess on petrol, diesel impact you?"Petroleum products' prices are governed by some international pricing mechanism. This is the practice of the last few decades in our country because we have to import almost 85% of our requirement from the international market. When there is a price hike in the international market, we have to go by that mechanism. The price comes down according to the decrease in the crude oil price in the international market. This is a market mechanism developed by all marketing companies. We have given the freedom to them," he said replying to similar questions in the House on Wednesday.Replying to Trinamul MP Santanu Sen's question that 90% of the pricing is controlled by the Centre, Dharmendra Pradhan said, "90% is not governed by Centre. State governments and union governments are careful about their tax collection because everybody has their own welfare commitment. They need some resource from this route. This is a proven route by all governments — irrespective of parties and states."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/petrol-diesel-price-wrong-to-say-all-time-high-says-minister-in-parliament-101612940392912.html
10-02-2021||India||‘Proud andolan jeevi’: P Chidambaram’s take on phrase coined by PM Modi||Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram on Wednesday described himself as a ‘proud andolan jeevi,’ two days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi coined the phrase in the Rajya Sabha, in reference to people who, according to the Prime Minister, ‘can be spotted at every agitation.’ Chidambaram further emphasised his point by calling Mahatma Gandhi the ‘quintessential andolan jeevi.’Also Read | ‘‘The nation attained independence through agitation’: Akhilesh Yadav on PM Modi's ‘andolanjivi’ remarks“I’m a proud andolan jeevi. The quintessential andolan jeevi was Mahatma Gandhi,” The former Union minister tweeted on Wednesday, with the hashtag ‘iamandolanjeevi.’I am a proud andolan jeevi. The quintessential andolan jeevi was Mahatma Gandhi.#iamanandolanjeeviThe term has not gone down well with the farmers’ leaders, who have been spearheading protests against the three farm laws, as well as the Opposition. All of them have accused PM Modi of using it for farmers who have been protesting peacefully against the legislations on the borders of Delhi since November last year.The Prime Minister came up with the term ‘andolan jeevi’ in the Upper House of Parliament on Monday, while responding to Motion of Thanks on President Ram Nath Kovind’s address in the House. “Today we see that a new class of people have come up. They can be seen wherever there is a protest, be it by lawyers, students, or labourers. They can’t live without protests. We need to identify such people and protect the country from them,” he said, further calling them ‘parasites.’Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab and Harayana, have been protesting on three borders in the national capital-Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur-against the laws that were passed amid chaotic scenes in the Parliament last September. 11 rounds of talks have failed to resolve the deadlock between the protesting farmers and the central government. The farmers have two main demands: a legal assurance on Minimum Support Price (MSP) and complete rollback of the laws.While the Centre has repeatedly reassured that the MSP will stay, it has categorically refused to withdraw the legislations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/proud-andolan-jeevi-p-chidambaram-s-take-on-phrase-coined-by-pm-modi-101612939783579.html
10-02-2021||India||SC stays dismantling of decommissioned aircraft carrier INS Viraat||The Supreme Court on Wednesday stayed the dismantling of decommissioned aircraft carrier INS Viraat and issued notices on a private firm’s petition and sought responses from the ministry of defence and Shree Ram Ship Breakers, which bought the iconic ship in an auction last year.The Centre had in July 2019 informed the Parliament that the decision to scrap Viraat was taken after due consultation with the Indian Navy.A bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde was hearing a plea by the firm Envitech Marine Consultants Private Limited that to convert the warship into a maritime museum and multi-functional adventure centre. The apex court also agreed to examine the price at which the firm can buy it from Shri Ram Ship Breakers that purchased the ship for ₹38.54 crore in an auction conducted by the Metal Scrap Trade Corporation Limited last year. The sale process was completed in September.During the hearing on Wednesday, the petitioner firm agreed to purchase the decommissioned ship from Shree Ram Ship Breakers at ₹100 crore.The aircraft carrier INS Viraat was inducted into the Indian Navy in 1987 and decommissioned in 2017. The warship, which is the symbol of India’s rich maritime heritage, is at the ship-breaking yard at Alang on Gujarat coast.The world’s longest serving warship is the second aircraft carrier slated to be broken down in India. In 2014, INS Vikrant was dismantled in Mumbai. The 70-year-old aircraft carrier, in its earlier avatar, had won the Falklands War against Argentina in 1982 for the Royal British Navy.INS Viraat weighs about 27,800 tonnes and served the British Navy as HMS Hermes from November 1959 to April 1984 and after refurbishment, was commissioned into the Indian Navy in 1987.The warship was last deployed in February 2016, in the International Fleet Review in Viskhakapatnam. The aircraft carrier sailed under her own power for the last time from Mumbai to Kochi in July 2016. In October 2016, she was towed out of Kochi and returned to Mumbai.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-stays-dismantling-of-decommissioned-aircraft-carrier-ins-viraat-101612940015755.html
10-02-2021||India||Parliament: Congress leaders want Rahul Gandhi to initiate debate on budget today||Several Congress leaders are trying to ensure former party chief Rahul Gandhi initiates the all-important debate on the general budget from the Opposition side on Wednesday. The budget debate will start in Lok Sabha on Wednesday after Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s reply on the motion of thanks to the President’s speech. The debate on the Union Budget will also commence in the Upper House on Wednesday. While senior Congress leader Shashi Tharoor is scheduled to be the first speaker of the Congress on the budget debate, Congress floor leader Adhir Chowdhury told HT on Tuesday evening that the plan might change. “Rahul Gandhi will speak on the budget. He might also be the first speaker,” Chowdhury said. Also Read | Opposition leaders hit out at govt on farm lawsHe also added, “plans can always change” when pointed out that the Congress has informed the Lok Sabha secretariat that Tharoor will initiate the debate. An aide of Gandhi’s also said, “There is a plan for him to speak, but it is not confirmed whether he will open the debate.” Congress leaders pointed out that Gandhi will leave for a two-day tour to Rajasthan on February 12, leaving him a small window—Wednesday and Thursday—to participate in the budget debate. The budget debate is also Gandhi’s last chance to actively participate in the first half of the session as it will end on February 13. The second half of the session will debate the finance bill and demand for grants of different ministries. While he hasn’t spoken so far in the ongoing budget session, Gandhi, has been active on social media to slam the government’s economic policies and the budget and has held two press conferences on farm issues and budget. His aides, meanwhile, also revealed that Gandhi is upset over his party’s floor strategy in the Rajya Sabha vis-à-vis the farm protests. Gandhi disapproved the decision of the Congress leadership in Rajya Sabha to join the debate on the President’s speech last week while the party leaders in Lok Sabha continued to disrupt and protest, exposing a major fissure in the Congress’ parliamentary tactics. According to party insiders, Gandhi has made his displeasure known to the Rajya Sabha leaders. Last Wednesday morning, the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha leadership of the Congress received a missive from Rahul Gandhi: the party should continue to protest if the government did not accept the Opposition’s demand for a separate debate for farm issues. But minutes later, the Rajya Sabha leadership of the Congress, along with other Opposition parties, negotiated with the government’s floor managers to extend the time for debate on the president’s speech by another five hours; and the debate started after the suspension of the Question Hour and the Zero Hour. Gandhi signalled his approval for the party’s stand in the Lower House in a meeting with some Opposition leaders. He told them that they were on the “right path” and a separate discussion on the farm issues is “absolutely essential”. Gandhi also allayed apprehensions that many Opposition MPs might stop coming to the House disruptions persist, and said, “we will ensure that MPs come to the Lok Sabha.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajya-sabha-rahul-gandhi-could-initiate-debate-on-budget-today-101612940102126.html
10-02-2021||India||Karnataka digital economy mission office inaugurated||The office of the Karnataka Digital Economy Mission (KDEM) which has the objective of increasing digital economy contribution to Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) to 30 per cent was inaugurated and the "Beyond Bengaluru" report which facilitates to achieve this target was launched on Tuesday.Speaking on the occasion, Deputy Chief Minister Dr CN Ashwatha Narayana said, "The government wanted KDEM to be more industry-friendly and keeping this in mind it has allowed for 51 per cent stakes to industry associations while retaining a minority holding of 49 per cent for itself. The government wants to act rather as a facilitator than an authority".In order to strengthen the digital economy, the government will focus on improving connectivity even to remote parts, providing 24/7 electricity, and reducing the rural-urban divide by establishing needed infrastructure, he explained.Highlighting that the industry sector is not showing interest to take up students for internships, he said this needs to be changed and they should be encouraged to undergo internship as youth is the future of the country and talent needs to be nurtured.The KDEM aims to attract investments for the IT/ITeS sector in the state and to create 10 lakh jobs by 2025. It works to achieve the target by focusing on 5 verticals of IT products and services, Innovation and Startups, Electronic System Design and Manufacturing (ESDM), 'Beyond Bengaluru', and 'Talent Accelerator'.He expressed confidence that KDEM would help Karnataka to reach the goal of 150 billion dollars in IT exports and also to become a 300 billion dollars economy by 2025.Dr EV Ramana Reddy, ACS, Department of Electronics, IT/BT and S&T said, "At present, the contribution of IT sector to the GSDP is 25 per cent and in this Bengaluru alone accounts for nearly 98 per cent. Keeping this in view and to increase the contribution of other regions, the 'Beyond Bengaluru' project has been initiated. By the time when India aims to become a trillion-dollar economy in the coming five years, the contribution of 'Beyond Bengaluru' should be in a position to contribute 10 per cent to GSDP."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-digital-economy-mission-office-inaugurated-101612927792129.html
10-02-2021||India||Dominica, Barbados receive 'Made in India' Covid-19 vaccines||Dominica and Barbados on Wednesday received 'Made in India' Covid-19 vaccines under the Vaccine Maitri initiative, said External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar.Taking to Twitter, Jaishankar said, "A gesture of goodwill, an example of support. Made in India vaccines arrive in Dominica."A gesture of goodwill, an example of support. Made in India vaccines arrive in Dominica. #VaccineMaitri pic.twitter.com/HeYYkjpDoR"Consolidating our Caribbean connect. Barbados receives Made in India vaccines," he said.Consolidating our Caribbean connect. Barbados receives Made in India vaccines. #VaccineMaitri pic.twitter.com/Fn0EZK1ZuvOn Sunday, India dispatched two consignments of Covishield Dominica, Barbados receive 'Made in India' Covid-19 vaccines to the countries of Barbados and Dominica under the Vaccine Maitri initiative.The consignments of vaccines, manufactured by the Serum Institute of India (SII) was departed from Mumbai.India has supplied Indian-made Dominica, Barbados receive 'Made in India' Covid-19 vaccines to countries including Bhutan, Maldives, Nepal, Myanmar, and Bangladesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dominica-barbados-receive-made-in-india-covid-19-vaccines-101612936462577.html
10-02-2021||India||Congress MP moves adjournment motion notice in LS to discuss 'abnormal situation' at China border||Congress MP and Whip in Lok Sabha Manickam Tagore on Wednesday moved an adjournment motion notice in the Lower House to discuss the "abnormal situation" at the China border."Sir, I hereby give notice of my intention to ask for leave to move a motion for the adjournment of the business of the house for the purpose of discussing a definite matter of urgent importance, namely: - To discuss about the abnormal situations at the China border and direct the Government to take necessary action," the Congress leader said in a letter to Secretary-General of the Lok Sabha.China and India have been engaged in a stand-off along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) since April-May last year. While China began amassing massive military strength along the LAC, India responded with a befitting build-up.The Chinese have been asking India to withdraw troops and tanks first from the southern bank but India has been asking for disengagement from all the friction points.Meanwhile, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has issued a three-line whip to its Lok Sabha members to be present in the House today and support the government's stand.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi will today also lead the Congress attack during debate on the union budget and will be the first speaker from his party in the discussion likely to be taken up by Lok Sabha.The discussion on Union Budget 2021-22 is slated to be taken up after a reply to the motion of thanks on the President's address by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.The first part of the budget session will conclude on February 13. The Parliament will again meet on March 8 and the budget session will conclude on April 8.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-mp-moves-adjournment-motion-notice-in-ls-to-discuss-china-border-101612939016727.html
10-02-2021||India||16 Indian sailors, stranded in Chinese waters, to return on Feb 14: Minister||Sixteen Indian sailors stranded in Chinese waters for more than four months will return home on February 14 following a crew change on their vessel, minister of state for ports and shipping Mansukh Mandaviya said on Wednesday. Last week, Chinese authorities had agreed to India’s request to permit a crew change on the merchant vessel MV Anastasia, which was in anchorage near Caofeidian port since September 20. “Great start of the day! Our stranded seafarers of MV Anastasia are coming back to India!” Mandaviya said in a tweet. “The crew will sign off from Japan today and will reach India on 14th Feb. And soon will be reunited with their families!” he added. The minister said the sailors were coming home due to the efforts of the Indian embassy in Beijing and the ministry. A total of 39 Indian seafarers were stranded on two merchant vessels off Chinese ports for months because of the trade row between China and Australia. Both ships were carrying Australian coal, which they weren’t allowed to unload by Chinese authorities. Also Read | Indian sailors stranded due to Covid measures, not standoff, says ChinaTwenty-three sailors stranded on MV Jag Anand, which was at anchorage near Jingtang port since June 13 last year, returned home in January after Chinese authorities allowed a crew change at a Japanese port. External affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said last Thursday that Chinese central authorities had given clearance for the transfer of the crew of MV Anastasia after sustained follow-up by the Indian embassy in Beijing. India had repeatedly taken up the issue of the stranded sailors with China over the past few months. Chinese authorities had outlined detailed steps for a crew change in view of the country’s strict pandemic control and prevention measures, and insisted the shipping companies would have to comply with them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/16-indian-sailors-stranded-in-chinese-waters-to-return-on-feb-14-says-minister-101612938781763.html
10-02-2021||India||Fresh row on Assam-Mizoram border leaves at least 6 injured, 18 houses burnt||At least six persons were injured, and 18 houses burnt down as a result of a fresh clash between residents of Assam and Mizoram on Tuesday close to the border between the two neighbouring states. According to Assam officials, the incident took place at Kachurtal in Hailakandi district of the state over a dispute related to construction of a road on its side of the border. “A fight broke out over the construction of a road on the Assam-Mizoram border on our side. Some Mizoram residents obstructed the construction and it led to a fight between residents of both states and several people got injured,” said Dilip Kumar Dey, DIG (Southern Range), Assam Police. “Three persons on our side got injured. Our personnel dispersed the crowd on reaching the spot. But while returning back to Mizoram, the miscreants burnt down at least 18 houses on the Assam side,” he added. Security personnel from the state police and Central paramilitary forces have been deployed in the area and the situation there is stated to be under control. Also Read | 20 vultures die due to poisoning in Assam; second incident within a monthHailakandi superintendent of police Pabindra Kumar Nath said that three persons from the Mizoram side also sustained minor injuries in the clash. “Though construction was taking place in Assam, Mizoram claims the territory to be disputed. The injuries sustained by the six persons are not serious. Of the three from Assam, one was discharged after first aid while the two others were taken to Hailakandi civil hospital,” Nath said. Tuesday’s incident took place less than a week after a school near the Assam-Mizoram border in Hailakandi district was damaged due to two bomb blasts by unidentified miscreants in the early hours of February 3. Assam and Mizoram share a 164-km boundary and there have been territorial disputes between both states for many years. In October last year, several persons from both states were injured in violence along the border after some residents of Vairengte in Kolasib district of Mizoram set on fire temporary huts made by residents of Lailapur in Cachar district of Assam on a stretch of disputed land. Mizoram said the huts were built on ‘no man’s land’ while Assam claimed the area as theirs. Following the incident, residents on the Assam side blocked the highway going to Mizoram for several days and hundreds of goods-laden trucks on way to the neighbouring state were stranded. The blockade was lifted in November after several rounds of talks between the two states and following intervention of the Union home ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fresh-row-on-assam-mizoram-border-leaves-at-least-6-injured-18-houses-burnt-101612938181665.html
10-02-2021||India||Domestic flights' fare band cannot be permanent feature: Hardeep Singh Puri||Replying to a question in Parliament on Wednesday, Union civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri said fare band on domestic flights can't be a permanent feature and it is expected that when airlines which are now operating 80 per cent of their pre-Covid capacity resume their full services, they won't need fare band.The Centre fixed fare band when airlines resumed their services in May 2020, after the national lockdown. In this process, the ministry determined the ceiling price of tickets so that passengers are not overcharged. "The floor and ceiling price was an extraordinary measure which was necessitated by am extraordinary situation which we found ourselves in. It is designed to ensure that airlines in a situation of limited availability did not charge exorbitant prices. It is not our intention and can not be in an open market deregulated situation to have the fare band made a permanent feature," the minister said.Replying to a question from AIADMK MP M Thambidurai on exorbitant airfares that he faced while flying between Delhi and Chennai, Hardeep Singh Puri said the fare band the ministry imposed on airlines during Covid-19 pandemic pertains to only economy classes, not to the privilege of business classes that MP Thambidurai availed."The price band was confined to only economy class, not to business class...this also depends on when you are booking your tickets. If you are booking your business class tickets 60 days in advance, then the airlines might offer you a cheaper rate, but if you are booking just a day ahead, then the tickets are dearer. Airfare depends on the market. It is not something the Centre decides," he said.Talking about the overall loss of the aviation sector, the minister said, "Nobody has an overall figure on the losses, though IATA and some others put a fantastic figure on it. But the sector is reviving."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/domestic-flights-fare-band-can-t-be-permanent-feature-says-hardeep-singh-puri-101612936864792.html
10-02-2021||India||Red Fort violence: Another key suspect, Iqbal Singh, arrested in Punjab||Nearly 36 hours after they arrested Punjabi actor-turned-activist Deep Sidhu from Haryana’s Karnal, the Delhi Police on Wednesday said they have arrested another suspect wanted in the January 26 Red Fort vandalism and violence case. Iqbal Singh, who was among the eight key suspects in the case against whom the city police had announced Rs6 lakh reward, was arrested from Hoshiyarpur in Punjab on Tuesday night, said deputy commissioner of police (special cell) Sanjeev Kumar Yadav. The DCP said there was a Rs50,000 reward for information leading to the arrest of Singh who is the third suspect to have been caught so far.Earlier, the police had identified Singh as the one who allegedly did a Facebook Live from the fort during the violence on Republic Day. The police had accused him of allegedly instigating the crowd and his presence at Red Fort was confirmed with his Facebook Live as well as other video footage in which he can be seen, a senior police officer associated with the case said, requesting anonymity. Also Read | Deep Sidhu spent 13 days as fugitive with friends, was active on FacebookOn Monday around 10.30pm, the special cell team of southwestern range arrested actor Deep Sindhu from near Karnal Bypass, where he was waiting for a car arranged by his friend to leave for Bihar’s Purnea and meet his wife. Police claimed Sidhu played a key role in instigating protesters on January 25 -26 during the violence at Red Fort. He had also congratulated the men who had hoisted religious and farmers union’s flag at the fort and also did a Facebook Live. A cash reward of Rs1 lakh was announced on Sidhu’s arrest.“On the run after show-biz at Red Fort rampart, actor Deep Sidhu arrested. Was a prominent player behind Republic Day violence. Had been instigating youngsters with his provocative speeches and stardom even when he was hiding from the law,” the special cell tweeted on Tuesday after his arrest. Before Sidhu, the crime branch team arrested Sukhdev Singh from Chandigarh on Sunday. He was also wanted in the Red Fort violence case and carried a reward of Rs50,000. Those still absconding are Jugraj Singh, who has been identified as the one who allegedly hoisted a religious flag on the ramparts of the Red Fort, Gurjit Singh, Gurjant Singh, Buta Singh, and Jajbir Singh. Gurjot and Gurjant also carry a Rs1 lakh reward each for their arrest while there is a Rs50,000 reward each for information leading to the arrest of Buta, Jajbir and Jugraj. More than 500 police personnel and nearly 10 farmers were injured when violence broke out at Red Fort, ITO and other places in the city during the farmers’ tractor rally on Republic Day. A total of 44 cases have been registered and 133 people have been arrested so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/red-fort-violence-another-key-suspect-arrested-in-punjab-101612936202041.html
10-02-2021||India||Twitter withholds some accounts within India, vows to advocate free expression||Twitter on Wednesday said it has not blocked handles of civil society activists, politicians, and journalists as “it would violate their fundamental right to free expression” guaranteed under the Indian law even as it has withheld some of the accounts that the government has flagged for blocking “within India only”.The micro-blogging site vowed to continue advocating for the right to free expression of its users. It added it is “actively exploring options under Indian law — both for Twitter and for the accounts that have been impacted”.The electronics and information technology ministry (MeitY) issued a notice to Twitter again last week asking it to block over 250 accounts and posts. Twitter had restored access to these accounts and posts after closing them briefly for using a controversial hashtag in connection with the ongoing farmers’ protest, officials said.Also Read | As Twitter seeks talks, ministers and celebrities move to Indian-made app KooThe notice said that Twitter, by unblocking the accounts and posts, was in violation of Section 69 (A) of the Information Technology Act that can result in seven years’ imprisonment.Twitter had on February 1 blocked access in India to accounts associated with the farmers’ protest on the government’s demand. Many of the blocked accounts used a hashtag referring to an alleged “genocide”. Among the handles temporarily withdrawn were those of Kisan Ekta Morcha. Following criticism over the move, Twitter unblocked them hours later.“Incitement to Genocide is Not Freedom of Speech; It is Threat to Law & Order,” the government’s notice said.Twitter, in its latest response, has said it has taken steps to reduce the visibility of the hashtags containing harmful content that included prohibiting them from trending on Twitter and appearing as recommended search terms.Twitter has informed the ministry of its enforcement action. It said it has taken a range of enforcement actions against over 500 accounts. They include permanent suspension in certain cases for violation of Twitter rules.“Beginning on 26 January 2021, our global team provided 24/7 coverage and took enforcement action judiciously and impartially on content, Trends, Tweets, and accounts that were in violation of the Twitter Rules,” the company said. It added that it took action on hundreds of accounts that violated the Twitter Rules, “particularly inciting violence, abuse, wishes of harm, and threats that could trigger the risk of offline harm”. It added Twitter also “prevented certain terms that violated our Rules from appearing in the Trends section” and “suspended more than 500 accounts that were engaging in clear examples of platform manipulation and spam”.The company said that “under the Twitter Rules, over the course of the last 10 days, Twitter has been served with several separate blocking orders by the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY), Government of India, under Section 69A of the Information Technology Act”.“Out of these, two were emergency blocking orders that we temporarily complied with but subsequently restored access to the content in a manner that we believe was consistent with Indian law. After we communicated this to MeitY, we were served with a non-compliance notice.”It added separately, Twitter on Wednesday withheld a portion of the accounts identified in the blocking orders under the Country Withheld Content policy within India only. “These accounts continue to be available outside of India.” Twitter added that the company does not believe that the actions it has been asked to take are consistent with Indian law and refused to take action against any journalists or media entities. “In keeping with our principles of defending protected speech and freedom of expression, we have not taken any action on accounts that consist of news media entities, journalists, activists, and politicians. To do so, we believe, would violate their fundamental right to free expression under Indian law. We informed MeitY of our enforcement actions today, February 10, 2021. We will continue to maintain dialogue with the Indian government and respectfully engage with them,” Twitter said in a blog post. Ruling Bharatiya Janata Party lawmaker Tejasvi Surya hit out at Twitter, saying it seems to hold itself above the laws. “It is picking and choosing what law to follow and what not to. I had raised this issue in Zero Hour in Lok Sabha yesterday [Tuesday], but zero hour wasn’t taken up yesterday. Requesting @GoI_MeitY to act stringently,” he tweeted.The government chose Koo, the Indian microblogging platform launched in April 2020 as an alternative to Twitter, to respond. “Upon the request of Twitter seeking a meeting with the Govt., the Secretary IT was to engage with senior management of Twitter. In this light a [Twitter] blog post published prior to this engagement is unusual. Govt. will share its response soon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/twitter-withholds-some-accounts-within-india-vows-to-advocate-free-expression-101612935781483.html
10-02-2021||India||YSRC-backed candidates bag most Andhra gram panchayats in 1st phase, TDP upset||Andhra Pradesh’s ruling YSR Congress party has bagged the majority of the gram panchayats that voted in the first phase of elections held on Tuesday, according to a senior party leader.Senior YSR Congress party leader and state minister for municipal administration Botsa Satyanarayana told reporters late on Tuesday that the ruling YSRC had bagged 91-92% of the sarpanch and ward member posts in the first phase of gram panchayat polls.Elections were held on Tuesday for 2,723 sarpanch posts and 20,157 ward members in 12 districts of the state excluding 526 gram panchayats, where only single nominations were filed leading to unopposed victories for the lone candidates.Though the panchayat elections are held on a non-party basis, without any party symbols, the candidates openly flaunted their political affiliations during the campaign.State election commissioner (SEC) Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar said 81.78% of the electorate exercised their franchise till the closing hours of polling at 3.30 pm. The counting of votes began at 4.30 pm, but it went on beyond midnight at many places, where results could only be declared in the early hours of Wednesday.“This victory is due to the welfare schemes being implemented by the YSRC government under the leadership of chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy,” Botsa Satyanarayana said.However, the Telugu Desam Party (TDP) has claimed that the candidates supported by the party had won 1,005 out of 2,723 gram panchayats, where polling was held, whereas the YSRC had won only 1,494 gram panchayats.“The ruling party is claiming more panchayats by including those forcibly declared unanimous. The YSRCP leaders and cadres threatened the contestants from other parties at many places to see that their candidates are elected unopposed,” TDP spokesman P Ashok Babu said.Also Read: Andhra gram panchayat elections: 44 sarpanch unanimously electedThe SEC told reporters on Wednesday that it was a welcome sign that people had participated in large numbers to cast their vote, which would only strengthen democracy.He congratulated the election staff and also the police department for conducting the elections peacefully. He hoped that similar spirit would be displayed in the next three phases of gram panchayat elections as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ysrcbacked-candidates-bag-most-andhra-gram-panchayats-in-1st-phase-tdp-upset-101612934998761.html
10-02-2021||India||PM Modi’s politics: From confrontation to conciliation||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s emotional speech in the Rajya Sabha on Tuesday was a throwback to an era of parliamentary politics when it was not unusual for political opponents to praise each other. He credited four outgoing Opposition leaders, including Leader of Opposition Ghulam Nabi Azad, for giving him suggestions and sharing insights. He also heaped praise on their work ethic.Modi tearfully acknowledgement Azad’s compassionate response to a 2006 terror attack in Jammu & Kashmir that left tourists from Gujarat dead. The reference was seen to embody late former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s description of conciliatory politics allowing room for “matbhed [difference of opinion]” but not “manbhed [personal differences]” and also Parliament’s tradition of balancing fiery speeches with courteousness.Also Read | Tears and praises: Rajya Sabha bids emotional farewell to AzadModi, who led the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to massive wins in the 2014 and 2019 national elections, does not shy away from attacking his opponents in bitterly fought elections. But he has on several occasion showered praise on them as well.In his first speech to both Houses of Parliament in 2014, Modi said he welcomes criticism from the Opposition as it would ensure that the government does not succumb to arrogance. “Without your support, my mandate is incomplete. So, I will seek your support and guidance as we proceed,” he said.He also sought cooperation from the Opposition, saying, “… Let’s work together in the first four years and do politics in the last year.”A year later, on the 125th birth anniversary of BR Ambedkar, the architect of the Constitution, he praised all previous governments including India’s first Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru for their contribution to nation building. “No one can say that the earlier governments have not done anything for this country,” he said.A similar suggestion of conciliation and cooperation was the highlight of his speech when he returned to power in 2019 with a majority of 303 in the Lok Sabha. Setting aside the acrimony of the election campaign, Modi reached out to India’s minorities, saying “sabka vishwas [everyone’s trust]” has been added to his slogan of “sabka saath, sabka vikas [development for all]”. “We stand for those who trusted us and also those whose trust we have to win over.” Over the years, Modi has taken to complimenting opponents to break impasse or send the message that he is not impervious to alliances or unreceptive to the Opposition. This has come even as the BJP has been accused by the Opposition of pushing ahead with legislation on the strength of numbers instead of following the due process as was the case in the farm bills, which were not referred to a select committee.The Opposition also sees a design in the selective praise of leaders. They read political subtext in the praise, which they feel is aimed at exposing the schism in other parties. The reference to G-23 (the Congress leaders who had written to Sonia Gandhi for the need to bring about changes in the party’s functioning) while praising Azad is cited as a case in point. Most recently, while speaking during the discussion on the motion of thanks on the President’s address, which also included a discussion on the ongoing farmers’ agitation, Modi thanked former Prime Minister HD Deve Gowda for his contribution to the discussion on farm reforms. “He [Gowda] has a strong association with the agriculture sector,” Modi said.In the same speech, Modi also praised Azad for his oratory. He said that parliamentarians should learn from Azad how to communicate without resorting to uncivil language. It came when Parliament witnessed daily disruption as the Opposition rallied against farm reforms.Modi has also praised former Union minister Sharad Pawar more than once. In 2015, In Pawar’s pocket borough of Baramati, where he inaugurated an agricultural technology centre, Modi said, “I keep talking with Pawar at least twice or thrice a month and we exchange notes on various issues faced by the country. We need to use Pawar’s more than five decades [of] experience in public life.”He said that whenever projects related to Gujarat hit a roadblock during the Congress-led United Progressive Alliance rule when he was the state chief minister, he turned to Pawar to help him sort out issues with the central government.Speaking on the occasion of the 250th session of the Rajya Sabha, Modi appreciated Pawar’s Nationalist Congress Party and Naveen Patnaik’s Biju Janata Dal (BJD).“These parties have wonderfully adhered to Parliamentary norms. They have never ventured into the Well. Yet, they have made their point very effectively. Much can be learnt from these practices,” he said.While the BJP defends heaping of praise as a parliamentary etiquette, political pundits and Modi critics attribute motives to it. For instance, Modi’s words of appreciation for Pawar came ahead of the latter’s meeting with Sonia Gandhi for a discussion about a prospective alliance with the Shiv Sena in Maharashtra. The BJP, despite being the single largest party, failed to form the government in the state after its long-term ally, the Shiva Sena, left the alliance over differences related to power sharing.Similarly, Modi overtures towards the BJD were read as a signal of an incipient alliance between the two parties.Ahead of the 2019 election, Samajwadi Party leader Mulayam Singh Yadav also praised Modi in the Lok Sabha and said he wanted to see him return as Prime Minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-s-politics-from-confrontation-to-conciliation-101612935481717.html
10-02-2021||India||Andhra gram panchayat elections: 44 sarpanch unanimously elected||Results were declared for 292 out of 296 sarpanch posts that went to polling in the first phase of gram panchayat elections in Anakapalle revenue division in Visakhapatnam district of Andhra Pradesh on Tuesday.As per State Election Commission, a total of 44 candidates were unanimously elected for the sarpanch posts which were notified for election in the first phase in 12 mandals of the Anakapalle revenue division."The highest number of unanimous sarpanch candidates was seven in Rambilli Mandal, followed by six in Butchayyapeta, five each in Atchutapuram, Cheedikada and K Kotapadu Mandals, four in V Madugula, three each in Chodavaram and Munagapaka, two each in Devarapalli, Kasimkota and Elamanchili and there were no unanimous candidates in Anakapalle Mandal," said SEC.Results are pending on two seats in Anakapalli Mandal, one seat each in Chodavaram and Kasimkot Mandals.The first phase of polling recorded 84.23 per cent voting.The gram panchayat elections will be held in four phases across the state. The final phase of the elections will be held on February 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-gram-panchayat-elections-44-sarpanch-unanimously-elected-101612926091171.html
10-02-2021||India||Uttarakhand glacier burst: What we know so far about the rescue operations||Rescuers scoured ravines and waded through the slush in the flash floods-hit Chamoli in Uttarakhand on Tuesday two days after a glacier breach sent a torrent of water, rock and dust hurtling down a valley into the Rishiganga river, where workers were building a dam. Here is what we know about the rescue work so far:• The rescuers on Tuesday struggled to break through a column of mud and debris choking a key tunnel with dozens of workers trapped inside as the toll from the tragedy climbed to 32• They pulled out bodies, some of which were lodged in knee-deep silt or atop trees. • At least 174 people are still missing• 35 of them are inside the 1.7km tunnel at the Tapovan power project where two days of excavation has failed to make much headway.Also Read | Chamoli glacial burst: Labourers say lucky their hands did not lose grip• Visuals on Sunday showed floodwaters smashing most of the plant before roaring downstream into the Dhauliganga and partially damaging the National Thermal Power Corporation’s 530 MW Tapovan Vishnugrad project, roughly 8km away.• The surging waters washed away homes, cut off 13 villages, and snapped crucial road links and bridges. • The disaster is the worst to hit the state since the 2013 Kedarnath floods killed 5,700 people and highlighted the impact of the climate crisis and degradation of the fragile ecology.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-glacier-burst-what-we-know-so-far-about-the-rescue-operations-101612933813604.html
10-02-2021||India||Home guard dismissed for showing affection to LGBT partner reinstated by court||The Allahabad high court has ordered reinstatement of a home guard, who was dismissed from service after he was allegedly seen in a video showing affection to his LGBT partner.The court has directed the commandant general of home guards, headquarters, Lucknow to take the home guard back in service with immediate effect.Justice Sunita Agarwal passed the order, while allowing the petition filed by the home guard challenging cancellation of his appointment by district commandant of home guards, Bulandshahr on June 11, 2019.In reply to the petition, the district commandant of home guards, Bulandshahr, had stated that the petitioner had indulged in untoward activity linked to his sexual orientation.The court said the dismissal was in violation of the Navtej Singh Johar ruling of the Supreme Court. “The apex court, in the said case, has held that the sexual orientation of the person is his individual choice and any act of treating it as an offence would be an interference in the right of privacy of the person concerned,” said justice Agarwal.Also Read: UP police guns down liquor mafia operative accused of murderous assault on cops“It was held that any display of affection amongst the members of the LGBT community towards their partners in public, so long as it does not amount to indecency or has the potentiality to disturb public order, cannot be bogged down by majority perception,” observed Justice Agarwal.The court quashed the dismissal order terming it ‘vindictive in nature’. The high court order, dated February 2, 2021, came to light only on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/home-guard-dismissed-for-showing-affection-to-lgbt-partner-reinstated-by-court-101612933115945.html
10-02-2021||India||India records 11,067 new Covid-19 cases as tally tops 10.85 million||India’s tally of cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has crossed 10.85 million, as the Ministry of health welfare (MoHFW) on Wednesday morning reported that the country had logged 11,067 new infections in the preceding 24 hours. India’s new daily count of cases was 1,957 infections higher than the last count, in which 9,110 cases were reported. The latest single-day death toll, too, was higher than the previous one, with 94 new Covid-19 related fatalities being registered in the last 24 hours, as against 78 from a day ago.Also Read | Covid-19: Combined trials of Sputnik V, Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine to begin soonWith this latest rise, India’s Covid-19 tally currently stands at 10,858,371, as per the health ministry’s dashboard. Of these, 97.27% or 10,561,608 are cases in which patients have recovered from the disease, with 13,087 new single-day discharges being recorded. Death toll, meanwhile, rose to 155,252 or 1.43% of total cases; India’s Covid-19 caseload is the second-highest globally, while its death toll due to the infection is the fourth-highest.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageActive cases continue to slump, and are currently at 141,511 or 1.30% of the national tally. The country’s active Covid-19 caseload witnessed a dip of 2,114 infections in the last 24 hours. Maharashtra and Kerala, which have the highest and second-highest caseloads of Covid-19 in the country, respectively, also have the highest number of active cases. As of February 9, Kerala had more than 64,000 active Covid-19 cases in a tally exceeding 977,000, while Maharashtra has nearly 36,000 active cases in its tally of over 20 million. No other state or Union territory has more than 6,000 active cases; Karnataka, whose tally is the third-highest nationally, has 5,804 active cases.Follow all Covid-19 updates of the day hereIndia’s latest positive Covid-19 cases were from 736,903 samples tested for the disease on Tuesday, the state-run Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said on Wednesday, adding that including tests from February 9, it had tested a total of 203,324,655 samples till now.COVID-19 Testing Update. For more details visit: https://t.co/FQhg5Mn8Qn @MoHFW_INDIA @DeptHealthRes #ICMRFIGHTSCOVID19 #IndiaFightsCOVID19 #CoronaUpdatesInIndia #COVID19 #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/7UZzV2iuNZIndia is currently in the middle of the world’s largest vaccination drive against Covid-19, which began on January 16. Healthcare workers are being inoculated in the first phase and, as per the latest health ministry figures, 6,611,561 vaccinations have taken place thus far. The workers will receive second doses of the vaccine from February 13 onwards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-11-067-new-covid-19-cases-as-tally-tops-10-85-million-101612932285211.html
10-02-2021||India||Congress calls for seven-hour Odisha bandh on February 15 over rising fuel price||The Congress gave a call for a seven-hour Odisha shutdown on February 15 to protest against the rising prices of petrol and diesel.Blaming both the Centre and the Odisha government for the rising fuel prices, state Congress president Niranjan Patnaik said on Tuesday that the shutdown would begin from 7 am and continue till 1 pm.Vehicles will stay off the roads, shops and other business establishments will also remain shut during the period, he said.Patnaik said that his party is aware that people will face various inconveniences due to the bandh but there is no alternative to protest against the government's "habit" of hiking fuel prices.Seeking the support of the public for the bandh, Patnaik said the state government should reduce tax on petrol and diesel in order to give some relief to the people who are already sustaining hardship due to the pandemic.He alleged that both the Centre and the state government are imposing unreasonable taxes on petrol and diesel, leading to a steep hike in fuel prices that in turn resulted in increase in the prices of other essential commodities."The two governments must be held accountable. Only a sharp reduction in fuel prices will give relief to the common man," he said.Patnaik said the Congress will also raise the issues of the border dispute between Odisha and neighbouring states, the Mahanadi water dispute and political killings in the state."Under the BJD government, 'jal, jungle aur zameen' (water, forest and land) are in danger in our state. In recent years, killings have become rampant. Our mothers and sisters are not safe on the streets. We need to raise our voice. I appeal to the people to support the bandh," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-calls-for-seven-hour-odisha-bandh-on-february-15-over-rising-fuel-price-101612932227753.html
10-02-2021||India||Twitter explains why it didn't take action on some handles despite Centre's push||Microblogging platform Twitter on Wednesday said it has acted on several blocking requests from the government in the past 10 days but it has not taken any action on news media entities, journalists, activists, and politicians as it believes that doing so "would violate their fundamental right to free expression under Indian law". "We informed MeitY of our enforcement actions today, February 10, 2021. We will continue to maintain dialogue with the Indian government and respectfully engage with them," it said in its blog post.Transparency is the foundation for promoting healthy public conversation.  Following the reports of violence in recent weeks, we're sharing a granular update on our proactive efforts to enforce our rules and defend our principles in India: https://t.co/ry557Nj94UThe detailed statement comes amid reports of growing animosity between the Centre and Twitter after the social media platform has been accused of sitting on the government's order for a day when the Centre asked it to block over 250 handles. It was reported that a day after Centre's order, Twitter blocked those handles only for a few hours. The Centre has also warned Twitter of penal actions.As Twitter seeks talks, ministers and celebrities move to Indian-made app KooAmid the ongoing tussle, Twitter officials have sought to meet IT minister Ravi Shankar Prasad citing concerns regarding the safety of its employees.In a blog post on Wednesday, Twitter voiced concerns over threats to free speech across the world. "The values that underpin the Open Internet and free expression are increasingly under threat around the world. Following the reports of violence in New Delhi in recent weeks, we wanted to share a granular update on our proactive efforts to enforce our rules and defend our principles in India. Twitter exists to empower voices to be heard, and we continue to make improvements to our service so that everyone — no matter their views or perspective — feels safe participating in the public conversation," it wrote.Beginning on January 26, Twitter's global team "provided 24/7 coverage and took enforcement action judiciously and impartially on content, trends, tweets and accounts...," Twitter said. Action was taken against hundreds of accounts for violating Twitter rules, it said. Certain terms were prevented from appearing in the trends section. Over 500 accounts have been suspended for engaging in "clear examples of platform manipulation and spam".Listing out what it did to address the IT ministry's request, Twitter said it took steps to reduce the visibility of the hashtags containing harmful content. Permanent suspension has been imposed on several accounts. On Wednesday, Twitter withheld a portion of the accounts identified in the blocking orders within India only. "These accounts continue to be available outside of India," Twitter said."We will continue to advocate for the right of free expression on behalf of the people we serve. We are exploring options under Indian law — both for Twitter and for the accounts that have been impacted. We remain committed to safeguarding the health of the conversation occurring on Twitter, and strongly believe that the Tweets should flow," it said.The controversy revolves around farmers' protest which turned violent on Republic Day. Before farmers' march on January 26, Delhi Police flagged the issue of several Pakistan-based Twitter accounts spreading misinformation. Centre asked Twitter to block these accounts as those handles were found "inciting genocide". Some accounts were suspended, but some were restored after a few hours. following which the Centre nudged Twitter once again and warned of penal action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/twitter-says-it-took-action-against-several-accounts-on-centre-s-request-101612932160968.html
10-02-2021||India||No new Covid-19 deaths in 7 states and UTs in last 3 weeks||India's Covid-19 situation is improving as seven states and union territories have reported no new Covid-19 death in the last three weeks, the Centre said on Tuesday. There was no Covid-19 death in Delhi on Tuesday, for the first time in 24 hours. Apart from Delhi, several other states and UTs, including the Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Daman and Diu and Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Arunachal Pradesh, Tripura, Mizoram, Nagaland, Lakshadweep, Ladakh, Sikkim, Rajasthan, Meghalaya, Madhya Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Puducherry, Andhra Pradesh, Odisha and Assam, have reported no new Covid-19 deaths.According to the health ministry, the seven states which have been maintaining zero fatality for the last three weeks are the Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Arunachal Pradesh, Tripura, Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Mizoram, Nagaland and the Lakshadweep."India reported only 0.5 per cent new deaths per million in the last seven days. This apart, there were 58 new cases per million populations reported in the last seven days," health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said.Also read| India’s daily Covid-19 toll below 100, here’s which states are contributing mostThe Centre observed in the last sero survey findings that over 70% of the population is still vulnerable to the virus and stressed that herd immunity should be achieved by vaccination. Highlighting this fact, Niti Aayog member (health) Dr VK Paul urged all frontline workers to get vaccinated as he said, "Systematic scientific approach is being exercised for the adverse effects being experienced by vaccine recipients. Of the 6.3 million people vaccinated, 4,333 AEFI cases have been reported. This means, one in 1,400 had adverse effects. Vaccine hesitancy has also gone with 63 million people immunised so far.”“The current situation of the pandemic is satisfactory. We are very happy to note that Covid-19 deaths reported are below 100 consistently. Also, no death has been reported in Delhi for the last 24 hours. This is a remarkable feat," he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-new-covid-19-deaths-in-7-states-and-uts-in-last-3-weeks-101612931522480.html
10-02-2021||India||Rishiganga disaster may have involved ice, rock avalanche: Met organisation||The World Meteorological Organisation on Tuesday said the exact cause of the flash flood in Uttarakhand’s Rishiganga Valley has not been ascertained but early assessment indicates the event involved a large avalanche of ice and rock. This was not the first such avalanche from these slopes. Experts have identified a similar but much smaller event in 2016.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has also reported higher temperatures at the approximate time of the flash floods than in the previous four days, with higher mean temperature intrusions to the north of the region. It monitored and reported melt in the region with melt volumes for 96 hours.An international group of scientists is working with Indian scientists and the National Disaster Management Authority to assess all available sources of information, including satellite imagery, for an understanding of the flash floods and lessons learned.Also Read | Uttarakhand glacier burst: Heavy damage to two hydel projects at the epicentre“The visuals are frightening and heartbreaking. This is once again a grave reminder about how our shared mountain region is fragile and vulnerable to a multitude of geological and natural processes. And it is a grave reminder that vulnerabilities are exacerbated by climate change,” wrote Pema Gyamtsho, the director-general of the Nepal-based International Centre for Integrated Mountain Development, in a WMO statement.The WMO said the effects of climate change together with the development of mountain regions require a more sustained, timely, and accurate understanding of changes and impacts on the mountain environments, to support decisions on the development of warning systems and adaptation.IMD director general M Mohapatra said they have to analyse their data properly before making a comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rishiganga-disaster-may-have-involved-ice-rock-avalanche-met-organisation-101612932001340.html
10-02-2021||India||Phase 1 of Andhra Pradesh gram panchayat elections records 82% polling||The polling percentage in phase-1 elections to gram panchayats in Andhra Pradesh was 81.78 per cent, which is satisfactory, said the State Election Commission on Tuesday."The percentage of polling recorded is 81.78 per cent which is satisfactory. Krishna District has recorded the highest percentage of 85.06 per cent," the commission said.The Commission has noted with satisfaction the very large number of voters. The election process was by and large peaceful, compared to the previous times, barring a few stray incidents.The Commission applauded the efforts made by the Collectors and District Authorities, Superintendents of Police and the Observers. The Commission complimented the poll staff for their zeal and diligence.The Commission complimented the police personnel for the excellent security cover provided. The commission is hopeful of the same trends to continue in the subsequent phases as well, and views today's poll as a good beginning and omen to strengthen the democratic processes as well as grass-roots institutions.Polling for the first phase of the Gram Panchayat polls in Andhra Pradesh for 2,723 sarpanch and 20,157 ward member positions in 12 districts began on Tuesday. With the polls taking place amid the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, arrangements have been made to ensure smooth functioning and social distancing.As per M Prabhakar, presiding officer, the voting started at 6:30 am today and will continue till 3:30 pm. The counting of votes will take place from 4 pm.The gram panchayat elections will be held in four phases across the state. The final phase of the elections will be held on February 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/phase-1-of-andhra-pradesh-gram-panchayat-elections-records-82-polling-101612926099086.html
10-02-2021||India||Railways clocks highest-ever freight loading of 119.79MT in January||Indian Railways registered its best ever freight load in a month, with 119.79MT in January 2021, surpassing its previous best of 119.74MT in March 2019, indicating an “economic upswing”, the ministry of railways said on Tuesday. The Railways’ freight load, for the last few months, has crossed last year’s for the same period. It is expected that the cumulative freight load this year will surpass last year’s freight loading figures, the ministry noted.The national carrier had suspended the operations of regular passenger trains since March 25 last year; only special passenger trains have been plying since May 2020. Railways’ freight trains, however, have been operating since the lockdown.Also Read | West Bengal got highest-ever allocation in rail budget: Piyush GoyalAs per the ministry’s data till Monday for February, 2021, Indian Railways’ load amount was 30.54 million tonnes, which includes 13.61 million tonnes of coal, 4.15 million tonnes of iron ore, 1.04 million tonnes of foodgrains, 1.03 million tonnes of fertilizers, 0.96 million tonnes of mineral oil and 1.97 million tonnes of cement (excluding clinker).“It is worth mentioning that a number of concessions/ discounts are also being given in Indian Railways to make freight movement attractive. Covid-19 has been used by Indian Railways an opportunity to improve all-round efficiency and performance,” the ministry said in a statement.“Also, to attract new business and incentivise other existing clients, the ministry of railways has held meetings with top leadership of iron and steel, cement, power, coal, automobiles and logistics service providers. Also, business development units at zonal and divisional levels and the near-doubling of freight speed is contributing to sustainable growth momentum,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/highestever-cargo-load-registered-in-jan-21-railways-101612931401124.html
10-02-2021||India||US closely monitoring India-China border disputes: State Dept||The United States is closely monitoring border disputes between India and China and backs their peaceful resolution through direct dialogue, the State Department said on Tuesday, while stressing that it stands with allies and partners like India."We note the ongoing talks between the governments of India and China," State Department spokesman Ned Price told a news briefing."We continue to support direct dialogue and a peaceful resolution of those border disputes," he said, and added: "We are concerned by Beijing's pattern of ongoing attempts to intimidate its neighbors. As always, we'll stand with friends, we'll stand with partners, we'll stand with allies."India and China have been locked in a military standoff over their disputed mountainous border and Indian public opinion has hardened against Beijing after soldiers were killed in a clash there.Also read| US welcomes ‘important partner’ India’s emergence as leading global powerPrice spoke after a call earlier in the day between Secretary of State Antony Blinken and India's Foreign Minister Subrahmanyam Jaishankar.The State Department said the call's purpose was "to reaffirm the strength of the US-India partnership" and issues of mutual concern, including Myanmar.Myanmar's military overthrew the newly elected government of Aung San Suu Kyi on Feb. 1 and detained her and other politicians from her National League for Democracy (NLD).The two also discussed cooperation across the Indo-Pacific, the statement said, adding that they looked forward to expanded regional cooperation, including through the Quad, an informal grouping of the United States, India, Japan and Australia seen as a way to push back against China's growing assertiveness.New US President Joe Biden and Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi agreed in a telephone call on Monday to strengthen Indo-Pacific security through the Quad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-closely-monitoring-india-china-border-disputes-state-dept-101612923391876.html
10-02-2021||India||Breach of privilege for calling 'Greta Thunberg persona non grata'||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP PP Chaudhary on Tuesday moved a breach of privilege motion against Congress MP Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury in Lok Sabha for calling 'Greta Thunberg persona non grata'.Chaudhary said India has good diplomatic relations with Sweden of which Thunberg is a citizen, and Congress MP's comment would tarnish the image of the country.Chowdhury's comment came after a controversy erupted after climate activist Greta Thunberg had last week posted the "toolkit" in a tweet which she later deleted. She had also extended support to protest by farmer unions on the borders of Delhi against the new farm laws.Also read| Highlights: Deep Sidhu remanded to seven day police custodyDelhi Police had on Friday sent a communication to Google seeking registration details and activity log of the account through which a "toolkit" related to the farmers' protest was created and uploaded on the social media platform.Meanwhile, Lok Sabha was adjourned on Tuesday till 4 pm on Wednesday.Prime Minister Narendra Modi is also expected to reply to the motion of thanks to the President's address in the Lok Sabha today, as the Question Hour was dispensed till Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breach-of-privilege-for-calling-greta-thunberg-persona-non-grata-101612921781076.html
10-02-2021||India||SC issues notice to Centre on petition to define 'minority'||The Supreme Court on Tuesday issued a notice to the Centre after hearing a petition filed by lawyer and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader, Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay, seeking the apex court's order to define the term minority and issue necessary guidelines for its identification.A three-judge bench of the top court, headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) Sharad Arvind Bobde and also comprising Justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian issued a notice to the Union of India (UOI) on hearing Upadhayay's petition.Upadhyay has also challenged the validity of section 2(C) of National Commission for Minorities Act, 1992, which gives unbridled power to the Centre to declare any community minority arbitrarily.Also read| Wadia institute scientists visit Chamoli disaster site, explain what caused itUpadhyay, in his petition, stated that the minority welfare schemes are not being appropriately used in Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Goa, Jammu and Kashmir, Kerala, Lakshadweep, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Punjab, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal."Legitimate share of the minorities is being siphoned off arbitrarily to unqualified sections of the population, because of non-identification and non-notification of minorities at State level," the petition said.The petitioner also said that the denial of minority rights to real minorities and arbitrary and irrational disbursement of minority benefits to majority infringes upon the fundamental right to the prohibition of discrimination on the grounds of religion, race, caste, sex or place of birth.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-issues-notice-to-centre-on-petition-to-define-minority-101612925401278.html
10-02-2021||India||India’s daily Covid-19 toll below 100, here’s which states are contributing most||The country’s fatalities due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) have remained below 100 for four days in a row, according to figures released by the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Tuesday. India’s case fatality rate (CFR) at 1.43% is amongst the lowest in the world as the global average stands at 2.18%.As of Tuesday morning, 78 more fatalities due were recorded to the viral infection and five states account for 64.1% of the new deaths. While Kerala saw the maximum casualties (16), Maharashtra was at the second spot with 15 daily deaths, followed by Punjab (11), Tamil Nadu (4) and Uttar Pradesh (4). The nation’s total toll from the disease currently stands at 155,158.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 hereAlso, for the first time since May 11, the national capital did report no fresh Covid-19 death. This comes as a landmark achievement for Delhi, which even witnessed a third wave of the Covid-19 infection. So far, 10,882 people have died of the disease in the city. "It is remarkable that no death has been reported due to Covid-19 in Delhi in the last 24 hours," NITI Aayog member Dr VK Paul said during a press briefing.Paul also said that there was "55% decline in average daily Covid-19 deaths have been reported in the last five weeks."Delhi was among 15 states and union territories that didn’t record any death linked to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) as on Tuesday morning, according to the health ministry. The states that reported zero daily Covid-19 deaths were Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Arunachal Pradesh, Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu, Goa, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Jharkhand, Ladakh, Lakshadweep, Manipur, Mizoram, Nagaland, Sikkim and Tripura.Also, there are seven states and UTs that haven't reported deaths in the last three weeks," Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said.The positive development comes along with a decline in active caseload in the country. There are currently 1.43 lakh cases in the country, which account for just 1.32% of India’s total positive cases that have reached 10,847,304.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-daily-covid-19-toll-below-100-here-s-which-states-are-contributing-most-101612927619199.html
10-02-2021||India||As Twitter seeks talks, ministers and celebrities move to Indian-made app Koo||Union minister Piyush Goyal has joined Koo amid an increase in the Indian microblogging platform’s users following a standoff between Twitter and the government over the blocking of 257 accounts. Koo was launched in April 2020 as an alternative to Twitter.“I am now on Koo,” Goyal tweeted on Tuesday. “Connect with me on this Indian micro-blogging platform for real-time, exciting and exclusive updates. Let us exchange our thoughts and ideas on Koo.”Goyal’s ministerial colleague, Ravi Shankar Prasad, Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, former cricketer Anil Kumble and spiritual guru Sadhguru Jaggi Vasudev are among other prominent Koo users.Mayank Bidwatka, Koo’s co-founder, said there has been a substantial spike in the number of Koo users since the standoff began. “We are yet to quantify it.” Bidwatka said Koo has over three million users and is active in seven languages.Also Read | What is Koo? Which ministers have already joined this made-in-India app?Koo won the second prize in the social category after Chingari in Atmanirbhar app challenge in August. It started in Kannada and has since expanded to include Tamil, Hindi, and Telugu.Bidwatka said Koo offers an immersive language experience. “If you type in English, it can translate the Koo into Hindi if that is your preferred language.” He added the electronics and information technology ministry, its departments are using the platform, and talks to create accounts for other government ministries and departments were underway.The standoff began as Twitter declined to block the 257 accounts for referring to “farmer genocide”, citing free speech and newsworthiness. The government on February 4 asked the company to take down additional 1,178 accounts that may “foment trouble”. It has issued a notice to Twitter threatening penal action in case of non-compliance with the government’s orders. Twitter has asked for a meeting with Prasad citing concerns regarding the safety of its employees.India is Twitter’s third-largest market with 18.9 million users. The American platform is the preferred mode of social media engagement for prominent politicians, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi.HT reached out to the electronics and information technology ministry and Twitter for comments but did not receive them immediately.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-twitter-seeks-talks-ministers-celebrities-move-to-indian-made-app-koo-101612928641054.html
10-02-2021||India||Protein deficiency, not age or weather, reason for spread of Covid in Europe, US||It was not the age profile or weather conditions, but the deficiency of a particular protein that led to the rapid spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) among Europeans and North Americans, according to a study by researchers from National Institute of Biomedical Genomics-Kalyani.The study was recently published in the journal Infections, Genetics and Evolution.The entry of the Sars-CoV-2 virus in the human body is a two-step procedure. First, the spike protein of the virus attaches to the ACE 2 (Angiotensin-Converting Enzyme 2) protein found on the surface of certain human cells in the lungs, intestine, and other tissues and organs. Second, another human protein TMPRSS2 (type II transmembrane serine protease) breaks the S1-S2 junction in the spike protein to allow the genetic material of the virus to enter the human cell.Also Read | Moderna enters supply agreement for Covid-19 vaccine with Taiwan, ColombiaHowever, the variant of the virus that spread rapidly across the world had acquired a mutation since it left Wuhan that allowed it to use another human protein called neutrophil elastase to also cleave the S1-S2 junction.“Now the neutrophil elastase is used by the human body usually to kill the organism attacking the lungs. However, it also damages the lung tissue in the process. Hence, a protein called Alpha-anti-trypsin (AAT) is needed to balance its action. Our research shows that the deficiency of this AAT protein among the people in Europe and North America led to the rapid spread of the infection in these populations,” said Nidhan Biswas, the co-author of the article.The paper shows a co-relation between the level of AAT in populations and the spread of the infection, he said.“So far, we had seen that these regions were reporting higher number of cases but we did not know why. Some thought it was because of the elderly population or the cold weather. But, if you look at Japan it has a considerable old population but the disease was not as widespread. Conversely, the population of Brazil is younger and yet the disease was widespread. Now, we have shown that the reason for higher spread is the deficiency of AAT protein,” said Biswas.He said, “Even among the European population, the AAT deficiency is highest among those in Spain and Italy. And, Italy saw one of the biggest outbreaks initially.”The study has found a co-relation between the levels of AAT and the disease spread. However, the researchers have not found any link between the level of the protein and the severity of the disease.“This is the first time a co-relation has been established between this protein and the spread of Covid-19. However, this will have to be validated in appropriate cell lines and animal models. However, this gives us important information about the mechanism used by the virus to enter the human cells and the knowledge may be used to develop molecules in the future that can prevent the entry of the virus into the human body,” said Dr Soumitra Das, director, NIBMG.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/protein-deficiency-not-age-or-weather-reason-for-spread-of-covid-in-europe-us-101612928342246.html
10-02-2021||India||Madras HC says Bar Association polls are tainted; issues guidelines||The Madras high court on Tuesday said that the “election process in our country has become a mockery” due to malpractices while disposing a writ petition on the conduct of the Salem Bar elections and issued a slew of directions to the Bar Council of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry to guard against monopoly.“Elections to Advocates Associations or Bar Councils are no different from general election to legislature in which invariably, to woo the electorate, communal, religious, political cards etc., are played; Money power is exhibited; Liquor is generously offered,” the court said.“Sadly, our bar leaders are not properly elected by following democratic processes, without any malpractices. Present members of the so-called ‘noble profession’ are readily selling their votes for ‘money, liquor, foreign tours’, etc. This is the practise in almost every election for association or Bar Council. One bar association election is the subject matter of this case,” the court added.The court said that such activities paved the way “for election of non-practising advocates with tainted backgrounds to the association/bar councils.” In its direction, the court barred elected candidates from contesting for a second consecutive election but allowed them to contest in alternative elections.“As followed...Madras High Court Advocate Association and Madras Bar Association, two very old Associations of India, it is appropriate to permit the elected office bearers to contest the election in the alternate elections, so that the democratic character would be given to the election process, thereby, avoiding monopoly by the elected office bearers being elected continuously,” the court said. It also restricted elected office bearers from printing photographs on calendars. The statutory norm of one bar one vote should be followed across the country’s bar associations as per a judgement in the case of Supreme Court Bar Association versus BD Kaushik, it said.Also Read: Madras High Court warns advocates against property grabbingThe court said that its intervention in the internal matters of bar associations which are "nowadays formed on communal and political basis" was important so that the administration of justice isn’t affected “because of the election of non-practising advocates, advocates with tainted background and inexperienced lawyers, who, invariably, call for boycotts affecting the justice delivery system and eroding the faith of the general public in Courts.” The court stated that it receives complaints of elected ‘disgruntled elements’ threatening and blackmailing subordinate judicial officers. “These are all the realities in the Lower Courts and this Court cannot lose sight of the same,” it said.The Salem Bar Association elections have faced several allegations such as elected members contesting successively and inclusion of outsiders in the voters list. The court appointed retired district judge Venugopal as a neutral election officer along with S D Manivasagam (appointed as the election officer in 2018) to conduct the election of the office bearers to Salem Bar Association before April 26. The matter was posted for reporting compliance on April 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madras-hc-says-bar-association-polls-are-tainted-issues-guidelines-101612927546774.html
10-02-2021||India||News updates from HT: Key Delhi borders remain closed due to farmers' protests and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Wadia institute scientists visit Chamoli disaster site, explain what caused itA breach in a temporary water body formed due to a hanging glacier crashing down after a huge rockslide, a few kilometres upstream of Rishi Ganga river, resulted in the flash-flood in Chamoli district, the Wadia Institute of Himalayan Geology has said. Read moreWhat is Koo? Which ministers have already joined this made-in-India app?Union minister Piyush Goyal, who is quite active on Twitter, announced on Tuesday he has also opened an account on Koo, a made-in-India app which is seen as a prospective competitor to Twitter in the backdrop of the government's "disagreement" with Twitter. Electronics and IT minister Ravi Shankar Prasad has already joined the platform and has a verified handle. Read moreDelhi AQI deteriorates further, remains in very poor categoryDelhi’s air quality continued to remain in the very poor category on Wednesday, with the hourly average air quality index at 7am recording 316. Read moreIndia vs England: 'If India win toss, Virat Kohli could also score 250,' says Ashish NehraFormer India fast bowler Ashish Nehra has praised India captain Virat Kohli's performance on the final day of the first Test against England on Tuesday and said that the India captain could also go on to score 250 if India can win the toss. Read moreAnita Hassanandani, husband Rohit Reddy blessed with a baby boyTV actor Anita Hassanandani and her husband Rohit Reddy welcomed a baby boy on Tuesday. Rohit took to Instagram Stories to share the news. Sharing a picture of the couple, Rohit wrote "Oh boy". Journalist Mushtaq Sheikh too shared the news. Sharing a post delivery picture, he wrote "it's a boy for meri jaan Anita and Ro" followed by a bunch of red heart eyes emojis. Read moreAstronaut tweets about completing his first and second spacewalks, shares picsA post shared by astronaut Victor Glover, currently aboard International Space Station (ISS), has now created quite a stir among tweeple. In the tweet, he shared about his experience of spacewalking. Read moreWatch: Uttarakhand tragedy: ITBP, NDRF, SDRF teams enter tunnel to rescue workers||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-key-delhi-borders-remain-closed-due-to-farmers-protests-and-all-the-latest-news-101612926156123.html
10-02-2021||India||Priyanka Gandhi to address kisan mahapanchayat in UP’s Saharanpur today||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra will address a kisan mahapanchayat in Chilkana area of Saharanpur district on Wednesday. This will be the first kisan mahapanchayat in west UP where the leader will address farmers. This also comes amid the farmers’ protest on Delhi borders against three new farm bills.Party’s district unit president Muzaffar Ali Gurjar said before leaving for the mahapanchayat, Gandhi will offer prayers at Shakumbhari Devi Temple in Behat area and also visit the dargah (mausoleum) of Shah Abdur Raheem in Raipur village. Also Read | Congress’ Lok Sabha MPs from Punjab to push private bill against farm lawsAli said the district administration had been informed about Gandhi’s visit. “We are still waiting for a response from the officials. The programme will take place as per the schedule even if they (administration) deny us permission.” The Congress had earlier planned a Kisan Samvad programme at Gandhi Park in Saharanpur city on February 8 but the district administration denied permission citing lack of sufficient force for security during the event. Saharanpur is the lone district in the region where the Congress party has two MLAs. Naresh Saini is an MLA from Behat and Masood Akhtar represents Saharanpur Dehat constituency in the state assembly. Besides, former MLA Imran Masood also has a good following in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/priyanka-gandhi-to-address-kisan-mahapanchayat-in-up-s-saharanpur-today-101612927200816.html
10-02-2021||India||TDP MP writes to RS Chair to take action against YSRCP MP for derogatory comment||Telugu Desam Party (TDP) MP K Ravindra Kumar has demanded action against Yuvajana Sramika Rythu Congress Party (YSRCP) MP Vijay Sai Reddy for making comments against Rajya Sabha chairperson M Venkaiah Naidu on the floor of the House. In a letter to Naidu, the TDP MP has said the House should “take a serious note of the misconduct...resulting in the denigration of the august office of the chairperson”.On Monday, Reddy had urged the Chair to expunge portions of a speech by the TDP MP on the grounds that it was not relevant. He said the statement was “objectionable” and should not have been raised in the House. When Reddy tried to raise the point of order under rule 238 (5) and rule 238 (3), Naidu said the issue cannot be raised as a point of order and that it should be brought to his notice in writing. Subsequently, Reddy made a comment against the Chair that was later expunged from the proceedings and Naidu said he felt “sad.”Also Read | Opposition leaders hit out at govt on farm lawsThe incident has brought the differences between the TDP and the YSRCP to the fore. In his letter, Kumar has said, “...It was no surprise to me being aware of the manner in which the YSRCP and the government of Andhra Pradesh have been attacking the constitutional institutions like a legislative council of the state, the High Court and the State election commission since coming to power in 2019.”He goes on to say, “ Reddy‘s unfortunate outburst against the Chair in the House on February 8, seems to have been propelled by my participation in the proceedings of the House on February 4 during the discussion on motion of thanks to the President‘s address. During the debate I made some observations against the Andhra Pradesh government and the chief minister in the context of deteriorating situation in the state on all fronts. Sh Reddy wanted them to be removed from records...” Kumar said his submissions were “neither incorrect, objectionable or unparliamentary. None of them violated any of the rules of procedure and conduct of business in the council of states.”After refusing to allow Reddy to raise the point of order, Naidu had said, some members have been “continuously making allegations” and the idea was to make the “chairman dysfunctional”. “...There are methods if you don’t have confidence on the chairman. I have no problem. But I will not be cowed down by this sort of effort for making the Chair dysfunctional. The day I assumed the post —even before accepting this proposal —I had resigned from the party. And since then I am not going to any political programme or attending any such function affiliated to any particular party,” Naidu said. Several members including Leader of Opposition Ghulam Nabi Azad, Congress MP Jairam Ramesh and BJD’s Prassana Acharya has also pointed out that Reddy’s comments should be excluded from the proceedings.Reddy did not respond to messages for a comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tdp-mp-writes-to-rs-chair-to-take-action-against-ysrcp-mp-for-derogatory-comment-101612927140924.html
10-02-2021||India||Eye on mahapanchayats, Samayukt Kisan Morcha to decide future of farm stir today||The umbrella organisation of the farmers' unions protesting against three farm laws, Samayukt Kisan Morcha, will meet today to decide the road lying ahead of the farmers' protest which witnessed several trajectories since it began in November.The protesting unions have rejected the Centre's proposal of putting the laws in the backburner for one and a half years. After the rejection, no fresh date for further consultation after the 11th round was decided, though Prime Minister Narendra Modi from the Rajya Sabha said that the agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar is in constant touch with the farmers.Environment of enmity must end: Farm unionsAfter Republic Day violence, the image of the so-far farmers' protest became sullied. Farmers union leaders also came under fire. The executive committee meeting of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha comes at a time when a need to reset the direction of the protest is being felt.As the issues of the farmers have gained massive support in the mahapanchayats held so far, the focus from now onwards will be to organise more such mahapanchayats. Bharatiya Kisan Union spokesperson Rakesh Tikait, who became the revival force of the farmers protest after Republic Day setback, has started attending these panchayats drawing a huge number of crowd. Tikait has attended three mahapanchayats so far — Jind, Dadri, Kurukshetra. Congress leader Sachin Pilot has addressed a mahapanchayat in Rajasthan; Priyanka Gandhi will address one in Saharanpur.The last programme of the farmers was peaceful 'chakka jam', which garnered support from across the country. Rakesh Tikait said the Centre has "time" till October to repeal the laws dropping hints that the protest will go on till October.In October 2021, it will be a year of the protest and farmers are mulling future path as farmers sitting on the borders and continuing the protest is not resolving the deadlock. The future plan includes holding more mahapanchayats where prominent farmer leaders will be present; sending out the message that farmers are open to discussion; not compromise on their demand of a complete withdrawal of the farm laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eye-on-mahapanchayats-samayukt-kisan-morcha-to-decide-future-of-farm-stir-today-101612926032911.html
10-02-2021||India||Odisha govt approves re-promulgation of farm reform ordinance amid farmers’ stir||Even as the agitation by farmers demanding repeal of three farm laws rages on across the country, the Naveen Patnaik government on Tuesday evening decided to re-promulgate the ordinance to reform the Odisha Agricultural Produce Markets Amendment Act to enable geographically restriction-free trade and transaction of agricultural produce including livestock across the state.The state cabinet which met under the chairmanship of chief minister Naveen Patnaik Tuesday evening, gave assent to the re-promulgation of the Odisha Agricultural Produce and Livestock Marketing (promotion and facilitation) Ordinance for the third time, enabling the state to move ahead with the abolition of notified market area in so far as enforcement of regulation by Agricultural Produce and Livestock Market Committee (APLMC) was concerned.The ordinance would also help the government create an environment for setting up and operating private market yards and farmer consumer market yards (Krushak Bazar), sub-market yard and market sub yard with the aim to enhance competition for the farmer's produce to the advantage of farmers.The ordinance also seeks to remove geographical restrictions on sale of agricultural produce and allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere within the state. It also seeks to promote e-trading to enhance transparency in trade operations and integration of markets across geographies.The Odisha Agricultural Produce and Livestock Marketing (promotion and facilitation) Ordinance framed around Centre’s Agricultural Produce and Livestock Marketing (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2017 is aimed at bringing comprehensive market reforms in the agriculture sector.The ordinance approved by the state Cabinet for re-promulgation on Tuesday was supposed to be brought in as a Bill in the last assembly session in September last year along with the Odisha Agricultural Produce and Livestock Contract Farming and Services (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill. But the government developed cold feet due to the opposition to the three farm reform laws passed by the Narendra Modi government.Also Read: Odisha to build memorial to honour fallen Covid warriorsFarmer leader Lingaraj, who has been vociferous in his opposition to the Central farm laws as well as the state's ordinances on agriculture, said the Naveen Patnaik government's decision to re-promulgate the ordinance to repeal the Odisha Agricultural Produce Markets Amendment Act showed that the party is in a bind."It clearly wants to junk the marketing yards as they have proved to be its bugbear with farmers all over the state accusing the government of inefficient paddy procurement. However, it does not publicly want to be seen on the same side as the BJP. I don't know if the government can bring it as a Bill in the Budget session this month. The ordinance is just a way to keep the legislation alive in case it fails to bring it up as a Bill," said Lingaraj.As agriculture falls under the state list of the Constitution, the Centre has been urging the states to amend the respective APMC acts to free agricultural markets from the clutches of politicized market committees and infuse investments and competition. In November 2019, the 15th Finance Commission headed by N. K. Singh in its report had said that states which enact and implement all features of the Model Agricultural Produce and Livestock Marketing (Promotion & Facilitation) Act, 2017 will be eligible for certain financial incentives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-govt-approves-re-promulgation-of-farm-reform-ordinance-amid-farmers-stir-101612925788814.html
10-02-2021||India||Govt asks people to register as cyber crime volunteers, check unlawful online content||In a bid to keep an eye on the cyber world in a "coordinated and comprehensive manner", the government has asked common people to register as cyber crime volunteers to help check posts against the sovereignty of the nation, on child and women abuse and attempts to disturb the law and order situation.The project known as Indian Cyber Crime Coordination Centre (I4C) is an initiative of the Union Ministry. It was started in militancy-hit Jammu and Kashmir last week where the police issued a circular asking citizens to register themselves as volunteers.The volunteers are asked to keep an eye on posts which are against the sovereignty and integrity of India, against the defence of India, against the security of the State, against friendly relations with foreign States, content aimed at disturbing public order, disturbing communal harmony and child sex abuse material.A spokesperson of Jammu and Kashmir police said that any Indian citizen can get associated with this programme by registering in any of three categories of cyber volunteers -- Cyber Volunteer Unlawful Content Flagger, Cyber Awareness Promoter and Cyber Expert.While the first category will help identify illegal and unlawful online content like child pornography, rape, gang rape, terrorism, radicalisation, anti-national activities etc, the second category will help create awareness about cyber crime among citizens, including vulnerable groups like women, children, the elderly, rural population etc.Cyber Expert category volunteer will help deal with specific domains of cybercrime, forensics, network forensics, malware analysis, memory analysis and cryptography.While there is no prior verification required for the first category, a background verification of volunteers of other two categories will be done as per the norms of Know Your Customers (KYC) by the respective state governments and union territories.The volunteers are required to furnish personal particulars like full name, father's name, mobile number, email address, residential address.Once the registration process is complete, the details of the volunteers would be accessible to the Union Territory Inspector General of Police (crime branch) who is the nodal officer for cybercrime.The I4C is an idea conceived to fight against cybercrime in a coordinated and comprehensive manner."One of the important objectives of I4C is to create an ecosystem that brings together academia, industry, public and government in prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of cybercrimes," a document of the Home Ministry said.This programme also envisages bringing together citizens with a passion to serve the nation on a single platform and contribute in the fight against cybercrime in the country.The Home Ministry document made it clear that the programme is "purely volunteer" with no monetary benefits and a volunteer shall not use it for any commercial gain.The volunteers are barred from issuing any public statement about their association with this program and are also "strictly prohibited" from using the name of Ministry of Home Affairs or claim to have an association with the ministry on any social media or public platform.While asking volunteers to read Article 19 of the Constitution which deals with freedom of expression, the Home Ministry said that they shall maintain strict confidentiality of task assigned or carried out by them as a part of this program, and any violations would lead to their re-registration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-asks-people-to-register-as-cyber-crime-volunteers-check-unlawful-online-101612924761733.html
10-02-2021||India||Light rain, thunderstorm likely over north Uttarakhand today||There is likely to be light rain and snow over the Western Himalayas particularly northern parts of Uttarakhand today, according to India Meteorological Department.Dense to very dense fog was also recorded at isolated places over Punjab and Haryana. Amritsar and Ambala recorded visibility of 25 m each; Patiala, 50 m; Bareilly and Lucknow, 200m each and Kailashahar, 500m at 5.30am.Also Read | ‘Peninsular India recorded warmest January in over 100 years’: IMD reportA Western Disturbance is lying over northeast Afghanistan and adjoining Pakistan. Under its influence, isolated rainfall/snowfall is likely over Jammu & Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan and Muzaffarabad, and Himachal Pradesh on February 9 and over northern parts of Uttarakhand on February 9 and 10.Dense to very dense fog in isolated pockets is very likely over Uttarakhand, Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi and West Uttar Pradesh in the morning hours of February, 10 and 11 and reduce in spatial distribution and intensity thereafter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/light-rain-thunderstorm-likely-over-north-uttarakhand-today-101612925701004.html
10-02-2021||NA||Parliament LIVE: Lok Sabha proceedings extend till midnight||The budget session of Parliament started from January 29 and is being held in two parts amid strict coronavirus disease (Covid-19) protocols.Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday replied to the Motion of Thanks on the President's address in the Lok Sabha. Modi spoke about the ongoing coronavirus (Covid-19) disease pandemic, the agitation against the Centre’s farm laws- the two issues which have been dominating this session- apart from other topics. The Prime Minister lauded the country’s fight against the Covid-19 crisis and said that India had to emerge as a strong player in the post coronavirus world. Shifting focus towards the farmers’ movement, Modi said that the Centre respected the sentiments of all the protesters adding that senior ministers had held talks with farmer leaders even when the protest was limited to Punjab. Hitting back at Congress party which has criticised the farm laws, he said that the party only made noise about the laws but never discussed its content.Leaders of opposition parties such as the Congress and the Trinamool Congress were seen leaving the lower house during the PM’s address. Congress leader Adhir Chowdhury said that he and other leaders of the party walked out as Modi didn’t address concerns over the farmers’ death. “He (Modi) agreed that amendments are required in #FarmLaws, some states will be benefitted & some' won't. Why do you have to bring laws that won't be benefitting everyone?” Chowdhury added.Follow all the updates here:Lok Sabha proceedings extend till midnightThe Lower House proceedings extended till mid-night to accommodate members' participation in the Budget discussion. Defence minister to issue statement on situation in Eastern Ladakh in Rajya Sabha tomorrowRaksha Mantri Shri @rajnathsingh will make a statement in Rajya Sabha tomorrow regarding ‘Present Situation in Eastern Ladakh’.Union defence minister Rajnath Singh would issue a statement regarding the present situation in Eastern Ladakh in Rajya Sabha tomorrow, according to the defence minister's office.Govt didn't impose lockdown at appropriate time, says TMC MP Saugata RoyTrinamool Congress (TMC) MP Saugata Roy said on Wednesday that the Centre had not imposed the lockdown to control the spread of Covid-19 at an appropriate time.Unfortunate that PM Modi said nothing about the protesting farmers who died: Harsimrat Kaur BadalShiromani Akali Dal (SAD) MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal hit out at PM Modi's address in the Rajya Sabha regarding the farmers' movement by saying that he spoke nothing about the protesters who lost their lives. "Where would the ministers have gone in Punjab when they couldn't go to the borders of Delhi in the last 75 days?," Badal added. Govt failed to constructively engage with the farmers: Shashi TharoorAmid the ongoing farmers agitation against the Centre's three new farm laws, Congress MP Shashi Tharoor said on Wednesday that the government failed to constructively engage with the farmers. Prime Minister Modi had earlier said that the Centre respected the sentiments of the agitating farmers and talks were being held with them when the movement was limited to Punjab. Cong MP Shashi Tharoor slams Centre over Union BudgetCongress MP Shashi Tharoor on Wednesday targeted the Central government over this year's Union budget in the areas of health, agriculture, defence and fiscal stimulus. TMC MPs walk out of Lok Sabha during PM Modi's addressTrinamool Congress MPs were seen going out of the Lok Sabha during Prime Minister Modi's address. This comes after leaders of the Congress party had walked out of the lower house. Need to work towards making farmers self-reliant, says PM Modi in Lok SabhaPrime Minister Narendra Modi said that work had to be done towards making the country's farmers' self reliant, giving them freedom to sell their produce . Congress is confused, divided party, says PM Modi as its leaders walk out in Lok SabhaAs leaders of the Congress party started walking out of the Lower House during PM Modi's address, the Prime Minister said that such a divided and confused party could neither help itself nor think about the country's welfare. "The Congress, which ruled this country for nearly six decades, is in such a state that its leaders in the Rajya Sabha go in one direction, and those in Lok Sabha go in a different direction," he added. India is a democracy which empowers its citizens, says PM in Lok Sabhaमांगने के लिए मजबूर करने वाली सोच लोकतंत्र की सोच नहीं हो सकती है: PM @narendramodiLaw against triple talaq made keeping in mind India's progress: PM ModiSpeaking about the laws passed by the Centre against triple talaq and dowry, Prime Minister Modi said no one in the country had asked for these laws but they were introduced keeping in mind the country's progress. Uproar in parl, noise over farm laws part of well-thought-out strategy: PM ModiThose who are disrupting the House are doing so as per a well-planned strategy. They are unable to digest that people are seeing through the truth. Through their games, the trust of the people can never be won: PM @narendramodi #PMInLokSabhaFurther sharpening his attack on opposition parties regarding the Centre's three new farm laws, PM Modi said that the current uproar in the House and the noise over these laws is a part of a well-though strategy. Our ministers have been speaking to farmers with utmost respect: PM Modi"This House and this government respects the sentiments of the agitating farmers. This is why senior ministers have been holding talks with the farm leaders even when it was still limited to Punjab. We agree that if there is a flaw in the law, then it will be fixed. We are still waiting if they cite a specific point, and it is convincing, we will not hesitate to make changes," PM Modi said.Cong made noise about farm laws, but never discussed its content: PM ModiHitting back at Congress party which has criticised the farm laws, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said that the party only made noise about the laws but never discussed its content. The Prime Minister added that if there were any flaws in the laws, there is nothing wrong in amending them but the farmers would have to come up with convincing points.Today we can hear 'Vocal for Local' in every corner of the country: PM ModiPrime Minister Narendra Modi said that the Centre's call of 'Vocal for Local' was being heard in every corner of the country. "People look for local. This sense of self-respect is working a lot for Aatmanirbhar Bharat," Modi added. India can be a global leader in post Covid-19 world; being self-reliant can help, says PM ModiThe post-COVID world is turning out to be very different. In such times, remaining isolated from global trends will be counter-productive. We'll have to emerge as a strong player. That is why, India is working towards building an Aatmanirbhar Bharat: PM Narendra Modi in Lok Sabha pic.twitter.com/fb04wwhL1ODuring his address in Lok Sabha, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Wednesday that the post Covid-19 world was turning out to be very different adding that India would have to emerge as a strong player.The way India handled, helped itself during Covid was a turning point: PM Modi in Lok SabhaPrime Minister Narendra Modi said on Wednesday that the way India handled and helped itself and the world during the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) crisis was a turning point.Prez's speech showcased India's 'Sankalp Shakti: PM Modi in Lok SabhaThe speech by President showcased India's 'Sankalp Shakti.' His words have boosted the spirit of confidence among the people of India: PM Narendra Modi replies in Lok Sabha to the Motion of Thanks on the President’s Address pic.twitter.com/OWLxV70ec9Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Wednesday that President Ram Nath Kovind's address showcased the country's 'Sankalp Shakti'. He added that Kovind's words also boosted the spirit of confidence among Indian citizens. PM Modi replies to Motion of Thanks on the Prez's address in Lok SabhaKerala remains a critical Covid-19 hotspot, says Cong MPCongress MP Kodikunnil Suresh said on Wednesday that Kerala along with Maharashtra continued to remain critical coronavirus (Covid-19) hotspots and further urged the Centre to take this issue seriously. Suresh further alleged that Communist Party of India (Marxist)- led government led in Kerala didn't handle the pandemic properlyUnion home minister provided all updates regarding U'khand floods: BJP MP Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP Tirath Singh Rawat said on Wednesday that Union home minister Amit Shah had provided all updates on the flash floods in Uttarakhand. Defence minister Rajnath Singh arrives in ParliamentDelhi: Defence Minister Rajnath Singh arrives at the Parliament. Prime Minister Narendra Modi to reply to the Motion of Thanks on the President's Address, in Lok Sabha shortly. pic.twitter.com/KU4bzLkHGQUnion defence minister Rajnath Singh arrived in Parliament on Wednesday afternoon. In moments from now, Prime Minister Narendra Modi would be replying to the motion of thanks on the President's address in Lok Sabha. AAP MP Sanjay Singh gives Zero Hour Notice in RS regarding U'khand flash floodsAam Aadmi Party (AAP) MP Sanjay Singh gave a Zero Hour Notice in the Rajya Sabha for tomorrow, raising the issue of provision of financial aid to the flash floods affected victims of Uttarakhand, reports ANI. Ports bill will encourage good competition, says Union ministerUnion Minister of State for Ports, Shipping and Waterways Mansukh Mandaviya said on Wednesday that the Major Ports Authorities Bill, 2020 would encourage good competition among major and private ports adding it would also boost port land usage and amplify competition in port tariffs. The bill was passed through ballot votes with 84 in favour and 44 against it in the Rajya Sabha.'Police', 'Public Order' are state subjects: MHA in Rajya SabhaRegarding whether the Centre would issue instructions to all the states and Union Territories to investigate all cases of custodial death and encounter, the Union home ministry quoted the Constitution's seventh schedule which says that Police and Public Order are state subjects. The MHA added that it is for states and UTs to see that provisions of law are followed in letter and spirit.Govt spending ₹1,053 crore on CAPFs, says MHAFor CAPF, namely Assam Rifles, BSF, CISF, CRPF, ITBP, SSB and NSG the govt has been implementing Modernisation Plan-III since 2018 with the total outlay of ₹1053 Crores: MHA in Rajya Sabha1,948 persons arrested under UAPA in 2019: MHA in Rajya SabhaAs per National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) report 2019, 1,948 persons were arrested under UAPA that year. Total number of persons arrested and persons convicted in 2016 and 2019 under UAPA are 5,922 and 132 respectively: MoS (Home) G Kishan Reddy in a written reply in Rajya SabhaPM Modi to speak in Lok Sabha at around 4pm: PMOAt around 4 PM today in the Lok Sabha, Prime Minister @narendramodi will reply to the Motion of Thanks on the President’s address.At around 4 today in the Lok Sabha, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will reply to the Motion of Thanks on the President’s address: Prime Minister's Office (PMO)Rajya Sabha begins general discussion on Union BudgetRajya Sabha begins general discussion on Union Budget 2021. FM Nirmala Sitharaman presented the Budget on February 1, day 2 of the ongoing Budget session.Rajya Sabha passes Major Port Authorities Bill 2020The Major Port Authorities Bill 2020 passed in Rajya Sabha.Cong MP gives notice over rise in Covid-19 in KeralaCongress' K Suresh gives adjournment motion in Lok Sabha to discuss the 'alarming rise in Covid-19 in Kerala.'Infiltration on India-Bangladesh border reduced in 2020: Nityanand RaiThere were 420 cases & 884 people arrested in 2018. 500 cases & 1,109 arrested in 2019. While in 2020, there were 489 cases & 955 arrested: MoS Home Nityanand Rai in a written reply in Rajya Sabha on cross border infiltration cases along India-Bangladesh border2/2Number of cross-border infiltration cases reported along India-Bangladesh border reduced in 2020 viz-a-viz 2016, says MoS (Home) Rai in Rajya Sabha.Cong MP gives notice over situation on China borderCongress MP Manickam Tagore has given an adjournment motion notice in Lok Sabha over the 'abnormal situation on the China border.'Pilot project for new Indo-Pak border fencing completed last March, says govtPilot project for new design modular fencing on Indo-Pak border in Punjab has been completed in March 2020: MoS (Home) Nityanand Rai in Rajya SabhaCAA rules under preparation, govt says in Rajya SabhaCAA rules are under preparation. The Committee on Subordinate Legislation, Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha have granted an extension up to 9th April 2021 and 9th July 20201 respectively: MoS (Home) Nityanand Rai in Rajya SabhaCong MP gives notice in Lok Sabha over VK Singh's statementCongress MP Manish Tewari gives adjournment motion notice in Lok Sabha over BJP leader and former army chief VK Singh's statement on LAC transgression.Some airline carriers want us to open 100%, says civil aviation minister PuriOn one hand, some of the carriers want us to open 100% while others would like us to take it slow. Our decision to raise it beyond 80% will depend on the behaviour of the virus: Civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri in Rajya SabhaBJP issues 3-line whip to its Lok Sabha MPs for todayThe BJP has issued a three-line whip to its Lok Sabha MPs to be present in the House today as PM Modi is expected to reply to the Motion of Thanks on the President's address.Increase time for discussion on Budget, says Cong MP RameshThere is a lot of interest among the members in discussing the Budget. I suggest that the time to debate the Budget be increased from 10 hours to 12 hours: Congress MP Jairam Ramesh in Rajya SabhaRajya Sabha proceedings commence for the dayProceedings begin in Rajya Sabha on day 9 of the ongoing Budget session of Parliament.BJP MP gives notice in RS over Uttarakhand glacier burstBJP MP Anil Baluni gives notice in Rajya Sabha to discuss the need for a mechanism to study glaciers to manage and prevent disasters such as the recent glacier burst in Chamoli, Uttrakhand.Discussion on Budget in Rajya Sabha and Lok SabhaThe discussion on Budget is listed after consideration of Major Ports Bill in Rajya Sabha, today. In Lok Sabha, it is listed after the ongoing discussion on Motion of Thanks on the President's address.Gandhi likely to initiate discussion on Congress' behalf on BudgetRahul Gandhi is likely to initiate the debate on the Union Budget on behalf of the Congress in the Lok Sabha, as per party's leader in the House, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury.PM Modi to reply on Motion of Thanks to President's addressPM Modi will reply on Motion of Thanks to President Ram Nath Kovind's address. On Monday, he replied in the Rajya Sabha to the President's address.PM Modi, Rahul Gandhi likely to speak in Lok Sabha todayPrime Minister Narendra Modi and Congress MP Rahul Gandhi are likely to speak in the Lok Sabha on Wednesday, the ninth day of the ongoing Budget session.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/budget-session-live-updates-narendra-modi-rahul-gandhi-february-10-2021-101612924420400.html
10-02-2021||India||Wadia institute scientists visit Chamoli disaster site, explain what caused it||A breach in a temporary water body formed due to a hanging glacier crashing down after a huge rockslide, a few kilometres upstream of Rishi Ganga river, resulted in the flash-flood in Chamoli district, the Wadia Institute of Himalayan Geology has said.A team of scientists from the institute visited the flash-flood site in Chamoli before submitting its interim report to the institute’s director, Kalachand Sain, on Tuesday. This is the first team of scientists to visit the disaster site.A team of five scientists led by Manish Mehta and Amit Kumar inspected the area on Tuesday and submitted their findings in the evening, tallying their ground observation with satellite imagery, Sain said.The team found that it all started at a peak, called Mrighu Dhani by locals, a few kilometres uphill of Raini village, the last human habitat in the upper reaches of Chamoli district, said Sain.“There was a hanging glacier on the peak and at the top head of this hanging glacier, there was a huge rock mass,” he said.Due to freezing, thawing and temperature variation, the rock mass loosened and came down, creating pressure on the hanging part of the glacier, he added.“The fresh snowfall had also added to the weight over the hanging glacier. And this hanging glacier broke off due to the gravitational pull, slid down with the entire rock mass, snow and took along more snow, debris, and boulders and soil,” Sain explained.The huge mass came down with force and slowed down near the base of the valley, where Raunthi Gadhera stream flows. This stream receives waters from the glaciers, he said.“As the huge mass slowed a bit, then stopped, it blocked the water of the stream and the water quantum kept increasing. This damming up of the stream increased to such an extent that it breached the whole accumulated mass. The whole mass of water, boulders, and rock mass came crashing down with force towards the Rishi Ganga dam site,” he said.Also Read: ISRO experts revealed mix of rockfall, snow avalanche caused Chamoli tragedy: CMThe slush from Raunthi Gadhera stream coming down with huge force washed away a hydel project on Rishi Ganga river and caused massive damage to the under-construction Tapovan hydel project. Till Tuesday evening, officials in Uttarakhand said 32 bodies have been recovered and another 174, who are missing, are feared dead.Geologist Dan Shugar of the University of Calgary had hinted at a similar possibility on Monday, saying, a large rock-slope (about 200 meters) detached from a mountain and hit a glacier and brought debris to the base of the valley already having huge debris from the 2016 avalanche. He, however, did not speak about the possibility of a temporary lake forming at the bottom of the valley.It is not yet clear to the team of scientists for how long the water had accumulated. “Prima facie it seems it was for a few days and then the breach happened. Our team is studying the area further to get more details,” Sain said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wadia-institute-scientists-visit-chamoli-disaster-site-explain-what-caused-it-101612923345955.html
10-02-2021||India||PM Modi to inaugurate World Sustainable Development Summit 2021 today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to inaugurate the World Sustainable Development Summit 2021 on Wednesday at 6:30 pm via video conferencing.As per an official release, the theme of the Summit is 'Redefining our common future: Safe and secure environment for all'."Dr Mohamed Irfaan Ali, President of the Cooperative Republic of Guyana; James Marape, Prime Minister of Papua New Guinea; Mohamed Nasheed, Speaker of the People's Majlis, Republic of Maldives; Amina J Mohammed, Deputy Secretary-General, United Nations, and Prakash Javadekar, Union minister of environment, forest, and climate Change will be present on the occasion," it stated.The 20th edition of The Energy and Resources Institute's (TERI) flagship event, the World Sustainable Development Summit, will be held online from February 10 to February 12 and will bring together a wide number of governments, business leaders, academicians, climate scientists, youth, and the civil society in the fight against climate change."Marking 20 years in its journey of making 'sustainable development' a globally shared goal, the Summit series brings together governments, business leaders, academicians, climate scientists, youth, and the civil society in the fight against climate change. With its focus on bringing the voices of youth and women to the forefront, the Summit intends to carry forward these vital discussions from the Global South to the 26th UN Climate Change Conference of the Parties in Glasgow.," said the official website of the World Sustainable Development Summit."India's Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change, Ministry of New and Renewable Energy and Ministry of Earth Sciences are key partners of the Summit. Energy and industry transition, adaptation and resilience, nature-based solutions, climate finance, circular economy, clean oceans and air pollution, are amongst the range of topics to be discussed during the Summit," the release added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-inaugurate-world-sustainable-development-summit-2021-today-101612922319954.html
10-02-2021||India||‘Air taxi’ to link Chandigarh with Dehradun from Feb 10. All you need to know||Chandigarh is set to get connected via air to Dehradun through an air taxi service to the capital of Uttarakhand starting from February 10. The service will be available for seven days a week and has been launched under the Udan scheme of the central government. Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar inaugurated the air taxi service on January 14 and said, "For the first time in the country, a small aircraft in the form of an air taxi is being used for services."Here’s everything you need to know about the air taxi between Chandigarh and Dehradun:1. The air taxi service will be operated by AirTaxi India which was granted the permit by the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) in December 2020. The airline has around 26 routes under the Udan scheme.2. The purpose of the air taxi service is to provide air connectivity between metros and tier-2, tier-3 cities across the country.3. AirTaxi will be using Tecnam P2006T aircrafts, a twin-engine four-seat plane, made by Costruzioni Aeronautiche Tecnam for the air taxi services.4. The air taxi has the capacity to seat one pilot and three passengers and a range of 742 nautical miles.5. The cost of the service is Rs. 1,755 per seat.6. The flight will take approximately 1 hour to reach Dehradun at Jolly Grant airport and will fly at 6,000 feet above sea level. The Dehradun flight will connect Chandigarh with Haridwar, Rishikesh and Mussoorie.7. By road, it takes more than 4 hours to reach Dehradun from Chandigarh and by bus it takes around 5 hours to make the journey.8. Bookings for the service can be made online. The company has also provided the facility of private booking for which the fare will be different.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-taxi-to-link-chandigarh-with-dehradun-from-feb-10-all-you-need-to-know-101612921736601.html
10-02-2021||India||What is Koo? Which ministers have already joined this made-in-India app?||Union minister Piyush Goyal, who is quite active on Twitter, announced on Tuesday he has also opened an account on Koo, a made-in-India app which is seen as a prospective competitor to Twitter in the backdrop of the government's "disagreement" with Twitter. Electronics and IT minister Ravi Shankar Prasad has already joined the platform and has a verified handle. Several government departments, including IT (the ministry of Electronics and IT), India Post have verified handles on this platform.Twitter says seeking dialogue with minister, safety of staff keyWhat is Koo?Koo is an app like Twitter which was launched 10 months ago. It had won the Aatmanirbhar App challenge. The app was developed by Aparameya Radhakrishna and Mayank Bidawatka. The app is available in several languages, including Hindi, Telugu, Kannada, Bengali, Tamil, Malayalam, Gujarati, Marathi, Punjabi, Odiya and Assamese.I am now on Koo. Connect with me on this Indian micro-blogging platform for real-time, exciting and exclusive updates. Let us exchange our thoughts and ideas on Koo. 📱 Join me: https://t.co/zIL6YI0epM pic.twitter.com/REGioTdMfmFrom India; For the world! 📲#NITIAayog is excited to be a part of the #KooApp🐤, a winner in the Social category of the #AatmanirbharBharat App Innovation Challenge! Listen to interesting thoughts by nitiaayog on the app - https://t.co/W6h1tMViQ8स्वागत नहीं करोगे हमारा?Focus is on Aatmanirbhar BharatOn its download page in Goggle Playstore, Koo has been described as an app "built for Indians to share their views in their mother tongue and have meaningful discussions". Its tagline is "connect with Indians in Indian languages". It is a personal update and opinion sharing micro-blogging platform. "Discussions are around interesting topics. It empowers people to express their thoughts in Indian languages with a strong-knit local Indian community," it said.What can be done on Koo?Everything that can be done on Twitter. You can share your opinions, updates. Celebrities can be followed on this platform as well. You can view your feed in Indian languages. This app will also show what is trending.Who are Koo's investors?Before Koo stirred a storm on Twitter on Tuesday afternoon after Piyush Goyal's tweet, Koo this month achieved a major landmark as it raised about ₹30 crore from a clutch of investors, including an entity backed by former Infosys CEO Mohandas Pai. Accel Partners, Kalaari Capital, Blume Ventures and Dream Incubator are its existing investors.How to downloadThe app can be downloaded from Google play store and iOS app store. It can be accessed from the web app too. All the users need is a valid phone number on which Koo sends an OTP for first-time registration.Why is the timing significant?The Centre on January 31 asked Twitter to block 257 URLs and one hashtag as they were spreading misinformation about farmers' protest. Twitter blocked them a day after and then unblocked them a few hours later. The Centre then issued another order asking for compliance failing which penal action will be taken, the Centre said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-is-koo-which-ministers-have-already-joined-this-made-in-india-app-101612921441389.html
10-02-2021||India||US welcomes ‘important partner’ India’s emergence as leading global power||The United States on Tuesday called India was one of the most important partners in the Indo-Pacific region and welcomed its emergence as a leading global power and its role as a net security provider in the region."India is one of the most important partners in the Indo-Pacific region to us. We welcome India's emergence as a leading global power and its role as a net security provider in the region," said US State Department spokesperson Ned Price during a press briefing."We cooperate on a wide range of diplomatic and security issues, including defense, non-proliferation, regional cooperation in the Indo-Pacific, counter-terrorism, peacekeeping, environment, health, education, technology, agriculture, space and oceans and that list is not exhaustive," he added.Price also welcomed India's tenure at the United Nations Security Council (UNSC) as a non-permanent member, adding that the US remains India's largest trading partner, with total bilateral trade increasing to USD 146 billion in 2019.The State Department spokesperson also mentioned the conversation between US State Secretary Antony Blinken and external affairs Minister S Jaishankar."Secretary Blinken today spoke with his Indian counterpart Foreign Minister Jaishankar. I think I would start by saying that the US-India comprehensive strategic partnership is both broad as well as multifaceted. We will continue to engage at the highest levels of pour government to deepen cooperation on many fronts and we are confident that the strong and upward trajectory of our partnership will continue," he said.Speaking on India-China talks on border dispute: "We are closely monitoring the situation. We know the ongoing talks between governments of India and China and we continue to support direct dialogue and a peaceful resolution of those border disputes."He further commented that the US is concerned by Beijing's pattern of ongoing attempts to intimidate its neighbours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-welcomes-important-partner-india-s-emergence-as-leading-global-power-101612921618935.html
10-02-2021||India||UP schools to reopen for students of Classes 6 to 8 from today. 10 points||The Uttar Pradesh government has decided to reopen schools for students of classes 6 to 8 from Wednesday almost 10 months after the schools were shut due to a nationwide lockdown owing to the coronavirus pandemic. Both government and private schools in the state for classes 6 to 8 will reopen with several Covid-19 safety measures. The state government has also said that schools will reopen for students of classes 1 to 5 from March 1. Schools for Classes 9 to 12 had reopened in the state on October 19. All school authorities have been urged to follow the Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) issued by the state government for the safety of the students and the staff in the schools amid the Covid-19 pandemic.Here are the SOPs that have been issued by the state government:1. Parent’s consent is necessary for the students to attend Classes offline. Students also have the option to attend online classes if they wish to do so.2. All common areas of the schools such as water tank, washroom, laboratory, and the library have to be sanitised before the reopening of schools.3. Doctors and medical teams will be available on call in the school premises for assistance.4. The seating arrangement of the classrooms and staff rooms should be such that proper social distancing is followed at all times.Read more: These states have reopened schools from February5. Only 50 percent of students will be allowed to attend classes on a single day.6. In the initial phase of reopening, schools are not permitted to conduct events such as sports activities and morning assemblies.7. Students with Covid-19 symptoms in schools will be sent home immediately.8. Wearing of face masks at all times is mandatory for all teachers, non-teaching staff and students. Students are not allowed to exchange their masks in the school.9. Gloves, face covers and hand wash will be available for staff and other workers.10. Midday meals will be provided with hygiene and all cooks will have to undergo Covid-19 tests before reopening of schools and wear face masks while cooking.Schools for Classes 9 and 11 reopened in Delhi from February 5. The states of Bihar, Rajasthan, Uttarakhand, Odisha and Tamil Nadu also reopened schools from February 8.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-schools-to-reopen-for-students-of-classes-6-to-8-from-today-10-points-101612920173869.html
10-02-2021||India||The dream of the Indian Republic||Every major landmark in the sands of time presents an occasion for reflection on the past, present and the future. One such landmark in the history of modern India is the completion of 100 years of representative democracy with the first direct elections held to the central and provincial legislatures in the winter of 1920. In a representative democracy, people participate in lawmaking and governance through their elected representatives. People are supreme in a Republic. India has completed a journey of 71 years as a Republic. How has it evolved to be a representative democracy and a Republic and what is its present status after such a long journey?There were never times when human beings existed without some form of power or authority over them. This is because an individual or group power or authority is required to regulate and resolve the inherent conflicts incompatible with community life. Such systems of control either emerged spontaneously or sprang from a common sense of community and enforced by sanctions of social pressure, or acquired a definite institutional status and operated by means of legal mandates. This form of social control is what we call Government.Government based on the consent of the people is the best form of government since a government without such consent is inconsistent with personal liberty, human dignity and equality. From the Western perspective, the Greeks were the first to give a democratic dimension to organized political institutions even though there are copious references to democratic and elective principles in the ancient Indian literature.Representation in ancient India‘Samiti’ and ‘Sabha’ existed as institutions associated with broader decision making, their execution, election of kings and controlling the administration, as referred to in the Rigveda, Atharvaveda and Chandogya Upanishad. Bala Kanda, Ramayana says that when king Sagara died the subjects elected the pious Amsuman as their king. Ayodhya Kanda, Ramayana mentions that king Dasharatha crowned Rama as the king with the approval of an assembly of people’s representatives. Rigveda exhorted people to form strong councils with distinguished persons from all sections of the society. Women could also be the members of the Sabha and Samiti.Aitareya Brahmana, Panini’s Ashtadhyayi, Kautilya’s Arthashastra, the Ashokan Pillar inscriptions, and Buddhist and Jain texts speak of the existence of several ‘republics’ during the post-Vedic period, known as ‘Ganas’. During the Buddhist period, the Sangha (congregation), as mentioned in the Vinaya Pitaka was guided by detailed rules and procedures of majority, resolutions, censure, quorum etc. Some matters were delegated to the committees by the Sangha for deliberation. Indicating the existence of strong systems of Panchayats since ancient times, Manusmriti, Mahabharata and Arthashastra referred to the functioning of ‘Grama Sangha’. It is, hence, evident that India is not new to the principles of consultation, representation and democracy and modern Indian democracy is not entirely founded on Western principles.Republics and monarchies including constitutional hereditary monarchies coexisted for long in India till they were challenged by expanding empires and foreign invasions. There were kings for long, but most of them were subject to the subjects.Representation during colonial ruleJohn Stuart Mill said: “Political institutions are the work of men; owe their origin and their whole existence to human will. Men did not wake on a summer morning and found these sprung up.” The emergence of modern democratic institutions in India did not come about easily. It has a history of about 200 years before India became a Republic in 1950.The East India Company and the British colonialists never thought that Indians were competent for self-rule and were stubbornly reluctant to involve Indians in lawmaking and administration for long. This premise served their unstated objective of exploiting the resources of India for their own good. However, with rising awakening and the demand for increased representation of Indians in the law making governance gaining momentum, the colonialists had to make concessions from time to time, accommodating Indians in the administration of the country. This happened through the Charter Acts of 1833, 1853, The Indian Councils Act of 1861, 1892 and 1909 and The Government of India Acts of 1919 and 1935. Accordingly, India had to wait for about 200 years to become a Republic in 1950.Under the Charter Act of 1833, Macaulay was nominated as the lone law member in the Governor General’s executive council to guide in matters of lawmaking. Six judges from the four provinces were inducted as six law members later under the Act of 1853, for the first time according representation to the provinces. Further to the first war of Indian independence in 1857, to win over the support of Indians, three landed aristocrats were nominated as law members. They were Maharaja Narendra Kumar of Patiala, Raja Dinkar Rao Raghunath of Gwalior and Raja Deo Narain Singh Bahadur of Banaras. In course of time, 45 Indians were so nominated of which, 25 were Zamindars and seven were rulers of princely states. All were supporters of the British.Under the Act of 1892, a provision for indirect election of the non-official members was made while official majority was maintained both in the central and the provincial councils. Pherozeshah Mehta was the first to be so elected indirectly followed by Gopalakrishna Gokhle, Rash Behari Ghosh, Ashutosh Mukherjee, P. Anandacharulu, Saleemullah etc. The absence of direct elections and lack of association of Indians in the executive government led to an upsurge of resentment among the Indian leadership and people, forcing the Minto-Morley Reforms and the Indian Councils Act, 1909. With the spirit of nationalism strengthening, the colonial government was keen to enforce a divide-and-rule policy and provided for communal electorates with reservation of seats for Muslims under this Act. Surendranath Banerjee, Ratanji Dada Bhai Tata, Sachhidananda Sinha, Gopalakrishna Gokhle, Vithhalbhai Patel and Muhammad Ali Jinnah were among those elected. Thus far, the official majority was maintained in the central legislative council. Non-official majority was first allowed in the provinces under this Act.The first direct electionsAll along till 1920, there was no involvement of directly elected Indian representatives in lawmaking and the executive with the British only conceding incremental changes in response to the demands of the moderate leaders of freedom struggle for increased representation of Indians in governance. The return of Gandhi-ji to India and the resentment over India’s association with the first World War without consulting its local leaders forced a rethink on the British, resulting in the Government of India Act, 1919.This Act for the first time provided for direct elections to the central legislature and provincial legislative councils with a majority being elected members in a bid to address the mounting resentment. Accordingly, the first direct elections were held during the winter of 1920 and the first central legislature was inaugurated on February 9, 1921 by the Duke of Connaught. Despite the Indian National Congress rejecting the Act, leaders such as Annie Besant, Bipin Chandra Pal, Tej Bahadur Sapru, Surendra Nath Banerjee supported the Act. Jinnah resigned from the Congress. The Act for the first time provided for a bicameral central legislature.This Act was, however, further expanded and consolidated communal electorates, extending to it Sikhs, Christians and Mohammedan landlords. Sardar Patel condemned communal electorates as a “poison which had entered the body polity of the country” and later attributed to it the partition of India. The method of election and nomination under the Act of 1919 made the legislature a representative house of capitalists class, mercantile aristocrats, communal and other vested interests. The legislature consisted of more elected members than nominated but had no authority to overwrite the executive, which could overrule the legislature.In the second general elections held in 1923 under the Act of 1919, leaders such as Madan Mohan Malviya, Bipin Chandra Pal, Hridaya Nath Kunzru, Jinnah etc. were elected and Vithalbhai Patel became the first Indian to become the President of the central legislative council. Five elections were held under this Act. Ghanshyam Das Birla was elected to the central legislature in the third election in 1926. Indian women became eligible to vote for the first time in 1934 in the fifth general election with severe restrictions on the eligibility. Out of the total registered women voters of 81,602, only 14,505 women voted.The Government of India Act, 1935 provided for a federal assembly at the centre subject to the rulers of princely states joining the federation. But the federal provisions did not become operational.With pressure mounting for setting up of a Constituent Assembly for drafting a Constitution, the provincial assemblies elected the Constituent Assembly in 1946. Jawaharlal Nehru was elected from the United Provinces for the first time. The Constituent Assembly was converted into a provisional Parliament and an interim government formed on September 2, 1946. India became a Republic with the Constitution coming into force on January 26, 1950 after a long and arduous struggle for self-rule.The Republic of IndiaThe electorate for the first direct elections in 1920 was only over 9 lakh of 250 million Indians. It later increased to only 12% of 300 million Indians for the elections held under the Act of 1935. Voting was then restricted based on the property held, payment of taxes etc. Women got to vote only in mid 1930s. Such was the nature of representative democracy in our country under the colonial rule. It all changed in one stroke with the Constitution conferring the voting right on all Indians in 1950. The Indian Republic has come a long way since then.However, on the occasion of the Indian Republic completing 60 years, Nani A. Palkhiwala observed: “The pre-independence (years) represent the period when India rightly asserted that good government is no substitute for self government. In the last 60 years, thinking India became equally conscious that self governance is no substitute for self government.” He was clearly pointing out the republican deficit.It is said that nothing works well in India other than successfully held periodic elections. People’s will is supreme in a Republic and consent is conveyed through their elected representatives. As a corollary, effective functioning of the legislatures holds the key to effective lawmaking and governance, required to enable the people to fulfill their aspirations. There is a wider concern about the democratic deficit in our country over the years with the world’s largest democracy being called a flawed one by some in the Western world. Such sweeping generalization is contestable given the success of our democracy and the Republic but the flaws need to be acknowledged and remedied.Our democracy is vibrant, throwing up silent revolutions with the might of the ballot. However, there are some broader concerns such as rising money power in elections, growing number of legislators with reported criminal antecedents, suboptimal functioning of legislatures due to frequent disruptions, negative perception of elected representatives, poor representation of women in the central and State legislatures, considerations of caste, community, region and religion while voting, quality and processes of lawmaking, defections and delays in deciding on defection and election cases, voter apathy in urban areas, inadequate representation of young India in the legislatures etc.These concerns are an index of the deficit to be addressed at the earliest so as to fulfill the dream of our Republic. A perfect correlation between the people’s consent expressed through regular elections and the norms of functioning of the Republic shall be ensured by addressing the palpable shortcomings.We have been a Republic for 71 years during the last 100 years of direct elections. Do we give our Republic as many marks based on the present status of its functioning?If you don’t agree, you need to think of what is to be done to make our Republic a near perfect one. Time is of essence.(The writer is Vice President of India)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-dream-of-the-indian-republic-101612919345008.html
10-02-2021||India||Covid-19: Govt orders 14.5mn more doses as preparation for second dose begins||As preparations begin for administering the second dose of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine in the country, the government has placed a combined order for 14.5 million more doses from the two approved vaccine manufactures in India -- Pune-based Serum Institute of India and Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech International.Of the 14.5 million doses, 10 million are of the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine called Covishield and manufactured by Serum Institute and 4.5 million are doses of Covaxin,,co-developed by Bharat Biotech and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).According to industry executives with knowledge of the development, Serum Institute has been sent the order by the government for 10 million doses of Covishield ahead of the expected administration of the second dose over the weekend .“The news is correct,” said one executive, requesting not to be named.Click here for complete Covid-19 coverageA spokesperson for Bharat Biotech confirmed that the company had received a fresh order for 4.5 million doses of Covaxin. “The company has received a letter of comfort from the Government of India to supply another 4.5 million doses of Covaxin,’ the spokesperson said.Of the 16.5 million Covid-19 vaccine doses which the government ordered in early January, 11 million doses were of Covishield, and the remaining 5.5 million of Covaxin.Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan, in the weekly Covid-19 health briefing on Tuesday, said the procurement of Covid vaccines was an ongoing process.“This is a continuous process, so whatever figure I give you today will change in the near future. This is something that would continue month on month. It is not a one-off or a one-time exercise where we procure upfront and then do nothing. This is a fortnightly, monthly procurement exercise, which takes into consideration the total amount procured, the total amount consumed, and the shelf life of the vaccine doses which have been procured,” Bhushan said.Bhushan also said ample precautions were being taken to ensure that no vaccine vial is wasted, which included making changes to the Co-WIN app to accommodate walk-ins among registered beneficiaries, and also certain measures are being put in place at the vaccination sites.“The site officers have been asked to regularly assess the...vaccine consumption, and also not to open a vial until there are 10 beneficiaries at the site as one vial contains 10 doses etc. Nothing is being wasted,”Bhushan said on the sidelines of the briefing.Both the approved Covid-19 vaccines are two-dose vaccines, being administered 28 days apart. India’s Covid-19 vaccination drive was launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on January 16, and those who received their first dose on that day are eligible to receive their second dose on February 13.Union health minister Dr. Harsh Vardhan said in Parliament recently that as many as 22 countries had sought the Indian-made Covid-19 vaccines. “As on February 2, 5.6 million doses have been sent as grant doses, and 10.5 million as contract doses to at least 15 countries,” he said.The countries that have received or will receive India-made vaccine against Covid-19 as part of vaccine maîtri (friendship) initiative include Bhutan, Bangladesh, Nepal, the Maldives, Myanmar, Sri Lanka, Algeria, Afghanistan, Bahrain, Nicaragua, Barbados, Seychelles and Mauritius.India will also consider opening up the vaccine supplies for people to buy privately once the government’s target of vaccinating its vulnerable population is met.“The immediate concern is to vaccinate our 300 million individuals who are at high risk, once that is taken care of then other options can be explored. Vaccine-derived herd immunity is what we are looking at attaining,” said Dr VK Paul, member (health), Niti Aayog, said during the press brieifing.The government’s priority list of 300 million high-risk individuals comprises about 10 million health-care workers, about 20 million front-line workers, and 270 million people above 50 years of age and people with comorbidities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-govt-orders-14-5mn-more-doses-as-preparation-for-second-dose-begins-101612911222590.html
10-02-2021||India||CIC upholds DoPT’s non-disclosure to RTI, goes by SC order||The Central Information Commission (CIC) has upheld the Department of Personnel and Training’s (DoPT) refusal to share minutes of meetings headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, to select the country’s anti-corruption ombudsman, Lokpal, under the Right to Information Act (RTI), saying the Supreme Court had also refused to direct the government to provide the said information.The government appointed former Supreme Court judge Pinaki Chandra Bose as the first Lokpal of the country on March 19, 2019. RTI activist Anjali Bhardwaj filed an application with DoPT, seeking a copy of the minutes of the meetings of the committee that selected Bose.The central public information officer (CPIO) of DoPT declined to share the information saying that the minutes of the Lokpal selection committee meetings were marked as “secret” and therefore, cannot be shared. The officer , however, provided details of when the selection committee meetings were held and who participated in them. The Lokpal selection committee was headed by the Prime Minister.Bhardwaj, in her appeal before CIC, said that marking a file as “secret” is not a ground under the RTI law to deny information, and claimed CPIO had not used any provisions of the transparency law to deny the information sought. “Under the law, access to information can be rejected only on the grounds mentioned in section 8 or section 9 of the RTI Act. Secret is defined under the Officials Secrets Act, which is not applicable under RTI,” she said in her appeal.Rejecting her claim, information commissioner Saroj Punhani relied on two Supreme Court judgements to deny the information sought by Bhardwaj.The first was issued in a case related to the constitution of Lokpal by the Central government in 2014. The Supreme Court said with regard to prayer of lawyer Prashan Bhushan to put names recommend by search committee in public domain that no direction should be assigned in this regard. “Rather the matter should be left for a just determination by the selection committee as and when the meeting of the committee is convened,” the court said.The second was regard to transparency in appointment of information commissioners by the central government. In its order in 2018, the Supreme Court said DoPT has put names of the applications for posts of information commissioners, names of members of the search committee, agenda of the search committee and minutes on its website, which shows the process was transparent.The search committee sends its recommendation to the select committee headed by the PM, and with the leader of the opposition and a Cabinet minister as members, to decide on the appointment of the information commissioners. The court said that the statutory (selection) committee consists of very high ranking persons and the department had provided all “essential” information in respect to each candidate on its website.In its order, CIC said that the process of selection commission of appointment of the information commissioners and the Lokpal is same in nature. “Therefore, the commission is of the considered view that in the instant matter, CPIO upheld the interest of transparency by informing the (RTI) appellant regarding all the details of the selection committee and its meetings; hence the question of lack of transparency does not hold ground,” the information watchdog’s order said.CIC also said that having taken cognizance of the averred dictum (judgements) of the apex court, the commission does not find it appropriate to intervene with the decision of CPIO.Nikhil Dey of National Campaign for People’s Right to Information said that CIC has not addressed the issues raised in the appeal by Bhardwaj . “I would have liked CIC to address the concerns raised by Bhardwaj in its order. Now, SC (orders) will be a ground to deny information under RTI.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cic-upholds-dopt-s-non-disclosure-to-rti-goes-by-sc-order-101612910848580.html
10-02-2021||India||Major rockslide hit hanging glacier, led to disaster: Scientists||A huge rockslide may have crashed into a hanging glacier, forming an artificial water body and causing the glacier to crash a few kilometres upstream of the Rishi Ganga river in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli , spawning the deluge that devastated parts of the district on Sunday, according to the Wadia Institute of Himalayan Geology.A team of five scientists who visited the flash-flood site in Chamoli submitted its interim report to the institute’s director Kalachand Sain on Tuesday. It was the first team of scientists to visit the disaster site.Sain said the team of scientists led by Manish Mehta and Amit Kumar, who inspected the area on Tuesday, had tallied their ground observations with satellite imagery.Giving details of the team’s findings, Sain said it all started at a peak known by locals as Mrighu Dhani, a few kilometres uphill of Raini village, the last human habitation in the upper reaches of Chamoli district.“There was a hanging glacier,” Saini said, and on top of the glacier was a huge rock mass.Because of freezing, thawing and temperature variation, the rock mass became loosened and came crashing down, creating pressure on the hanging part of the glacier.“The fresh snowfall had also added to the weight over the hanging glacier also. And this hanging glacier broke off due to gravitational pull, slid down with the entire rock mass, all snow and took along more snow, debris, and boulders and soil.”Sain said as the huge mass came down with force and slowed down near the base of the valley, where the Raunthi Gadhera stream flows. This stream receives waters from the glaciers.“As the huge mass slowed a bit, then stopped, it blocked the water of the stream and the water quantum kept increasing. This damming up of the stream increased to such an extent that it breached the whole accumulated mass. The whole mass of water, boulders, and rock mass came crashing down with force towards the Rishi Ganga dam site,” he said.The slush from Raunthi Gadhera stream, coming down with torrential force, washed away a hydropower project on the Rishi Ganga river and caused massive damage to the under-construction Tapovan hydel project. Until Tuesday evening, officials in Uttarakhand said 32 bodies had been recovered and another 174, who are missing, are feared dead.Geologist Dan Shugar of the University of Calgary had hinted at a similar possibility on Monday, saying that a large rockslope (about 200 meters) became detached from a mountain and hit a glacier and brought debris to the base of the valley, where debris had already piled up from 2a 016 avalanche. He did not speak about the possible formation of an artificial lake.Sain said it was not yet clear for how long the water had accumulated. “Prima facie it seems it was for a few days and then the breach happened. Our team is studying the area to get more details,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/major-rockslide-hit-hanging-glacier-led-to-disaster-scientists-101612910375845.html
10-02-2021||India||Took turns to sit on excavator, hung from rods to keep warm: How Uttarakhand workers survived inside tunnel||In the seven hours that they were trapped inside a tunnel immediately after a flash flood in Tapovan on Sunday, and before they were rescued around 5.45 pm on Sunday, the dozen men kept themselves warm by exercising, swapping warm clothes, staying close to each other, and they kept themselves hopeful by reciting Urdu couplets and singing songs -- first romantic and then sad ones -- as time ticked away.Iron rods protruding out of the tunnel’s walls, an excavator and the network connection in one of their mobile phones kept their hopes alive before a team of the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) broke in through an emergency door and rescued them.The dozen men, masons, electricians, and engineers, walked into the tunnel around 8am on Sunday to carry out construction work. But for the flash flood, they would have emerged from the tunnel for their lunch around 12.30pm.“Around 10.45, we saw some men running away from the tunnel and shouting to us to rush out. Before we could react, the tunnel entrance was flooded,” said Chitra Bahadur, one of the four masons from Nepal trapped in the tunnel.The next moment, their ears were assailed by the roaring sound of the flood.At that point, these men were about 350 metres away from the tunnel’s entrance.Nine of them hurriedly scrambled to find iron rods jutting out of the tunnel walls and used them to climb higher along the walls of the six-metre-high tunnel as the water level rose by the second.Two other men were in an excavator that was pushed away almost five metres from its position by the force of the water, but the vehicle temporarily kept them above the water. Moments later, from their perch they saved the life of Satish Kumar, an electrician who was swept away by the torrent of water.“As I was passing by the excavator, the two men used their feet to stop me and then hauled me inside,” said an injured Kumar, who was left with a single shoe that he decided to dump.But the inside of the excavator was not safe for too long. As the water rose three-four metres inside the tunnel, the excavator driver kept using a jack in the vehicle to raise it higher. Eventually, the three men were compelled to climb the excavator’s roof until their heads were almost hitting the roof.And so, within five minutes of the flash flood, nine men were dangling from iron rods and three men were atop the excavator. The tunnels entrance was blocked by debris from the flood.“When the entrant was blocked, we were hardly able to see around us. We thought of trying to swim through the water and debris, but it was impossible, ” said Kiran Vishwakarma, another labourer from Nepal.Soon, breathing was becoming a little difficult, but it was the cold that was unbearable. Over the past week, the temperatures in Joshimath have been plummeting to three and four degrees below zero.It was here that these dozen men worked as a team to survive the bitter cold, exacerbated by their soaked clothes.“In batches of three, we began taking turns to sit atop the excavator for about 10 minutes each. The rest of the men would continue to hang from the rods,” said the excavator driver, Rakesh Bhatt.Sitting on the excavator allowed the men to exercise to keep themselves warm. “We would clap, we would rotate our hands vigorously in the limited space that we had. We rubbed the hands of each other and tried to blow hot air on the man next to us. Sometimes the men on the excavator hugged each other or sat in each other’s laps. We were doing everything to keep warm,” said Vinod Singh Pawar, a welder.Those hanging from the rods did pull-ups in the hope of generating heat in their bodies.“But all that exercise was not enough. Sometimes we felt like our legs didn’t exist. So, we urinated on our legs to keep them alive. We would control our bladder and urinate periodically so that we could keep warm for longer,” said Satish Kumar.Then, those with dry sweaters passed them around so that every one had at least a few minutes of warmth regularly.More important was to keep their spirits up, so the men sang Hindi and Garhwali songs and urged each other to recite couplets.“I sang a Garhwali song, the lyrics of which are about coming across a person who appeared to belong to my region. All of us knew the song and we sang in unison as it made us feel we belonged to each other,” said Srinivas Reddy, a geologist from Andhra Pradesh.Then, they moved to romantic songs. “We sang the ‘Dil hai ki maanta nahi’ (the heart doesn’t agree) song, among others. As hopelessness began to set in, we sang sad songs,” said Virendra Kumar Gautam, a senior foreman, who remembers singing ‘Lambi Judaai’ (prolonged separation).They also fantasised aloud of hot water baths and drinking hot tea. The idea was to keep everyone engaged and hopeful, said Gautam.Amidst all this, the men decided to move towards the entrance that was fully blocked, but offered their only hope of escape. So, they abandoned the excavator, divided themselves into two groups and used the rods to move forward.“It took us over two hours to move 300 metres. Some of us were using the torch in our phones to show the path to others,” said Gautam.Since water wasn’t gushing into the tunnel anymore and the level had reduced, they again began taking turns to sit on two large boulders which had been washed into the tunnel.Around the same time, there were two encouraging signs in quick succession.“The mud at the entrance of the tunnel was falling and that led to a tiny opening, about two inches wide. We could finally see natural light and knew that we would have oxygen,” said Gautam.Soon after, welder Pawar found a network in his phone. “It was the BSNL SIM card that I would never use for calling. Usually, network inside the tunnel was limited to five metres inside, but my BSNL was working,” said Pawar.Pawar first called an NTPC official to update him about their location and then some local villagers who knew the topography. “We all felt the urge to call our relatives, but we controlled ourselves. We didn’t know how long we would be stranded inside and needed the phone to be working,” said Pawar, adding that the device was at 30% charge at that time.Outside, meanwhile, ITBP officers, who were struggling to reach the tunnel’s entrance, were alerted about an emergency gate made of concrete and iron mesh. They worked on that gate to finally break into the tunnel after which ropes were used to pull out the men.Since they were suffering from hypothermia, they were quickly washed with hot water, given necessary injections and rushed to an ITBP hospital in Joshimath.Dr Jyoti Khambra, an assistant commandant at the hospital, said that the vitals of the men had recovered to normal and they were ready to be discharged on Tuesday. “They are all fit to work again,” said Khambra.The rescued men may have little choice but to return to work, wherever they can find it, but for now their worry is reaching their homes. “All my money was washed away. I lost my phone. I have nothing. I don’t know how I’ll get back home,” said Sant Bahadur, one of the rescued men from Nepal.While a video of Gautam raising his arms in happiness on being rescued was widely shared on social media, the rescue didn’t really end well for one of them.Soon after they were brought to the hospital, one of these men, Lal Bahadur, got to know that his brother hadn’t been as lucky as him. “The body of Lal’s brother was found in the barrage of the hydrothermal plant. He left the hospital as soon as he could walk,” said Sant Bahadur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-disaster-how-workers-survived-inside-tunnel-101612910056296.html
10-02-2021||India||Congress’ Lok Sabha MPs from Punjab to push private bill against farm laws||Eight Congress MPs from Punjab including former minister Manish Tewari announced on Tuesday they will move private members’ bills in Parliament for the repeal of three contentious farm laws that have sparked protests across the country, including at three key border points of Delhi.The step appeared to be an attempt by the Congress Lok Sabha MPs from Punjab to carve out a separate political space for themselves over the raging issue. The group did not involve their Rajya Sabha counterparts and after announcing the plan, Tewari said that they will seek support from party colleagues and like-minded parties.A private member’s bill is a legislation proposed by an MP and not by the government. In the past, 14 such bills have translated into law of the land but since 1970, no private member bill has been cleared by the House.“With 14.5 crore Kisan Families across the country dependent on agriculture for their livelihood, with 86% of them owning less than five acres of land, it is a travesty that the NDA/BJP wants to replace the abolished practice of Zamindari with Corporate Companydari,” Tewari said, flanked by seven other MPs at the Punjab Bhavan.The Congress has so far taken two different approaches to raise the issue in Parliament. The Rajya Sabha MPs joined the debate to corner the government and the Lok Sabha MPs’ protest washed out four consecutive days of proceedings while demanding a separate debate on the farm laws. The Lok Sabha MPs later joined the debate on the motion of thanks to the President’s speech. The Punjab MPs have now planned The Repealing and Amending Act 2021 as the third line of protest.Apart from Tewari, Praneel Kaur, Ravneet Singh Bitoo, Amar Singh, Chowdary Santokh Singh, Jasbir Singh Gill, Gurjit Singh Aujala and Mohmmad Siddiquie are the other MPs who want to move their bills.Congress MP Ravneet Singh Bittu said: “There are 203 MPs in the Lok Sabha and 64 in the Rajya Sabha who have shown agriculture as their profession. So, we appeal to them to help with these private member’s bills by coming out of partisan politics.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-lok-sabha-mps-from-punjab-to-push-private-bill-against-farm-laws-101612909712411.html
10-02-2021||India||Opposition leaders hit out at govt on farm laws||Opposition leaders launched an attack on the central government on Tuesday over three contentious farm laws, with former Union minister and Shiromani Akali Dal leader Harsimrat Kaur Badal alleging that there were atrocities against protesting farmers and that the movement was being linked to the Khalistanis.Harsimrat, who resigned from the Narendra Modi-led Cabinet over protests against the farm legislation, said the farmers were braving the cold and waiting at Delhi’s borders but the government’s “eyes and ears are shut”.“I was in the government for six years but when it became inhuman, what is the point of staying in such a government? Even when these (agriculture) ordinances were brought in, I told the Cabinet to consult more people. I was told that they will do that when the ordinances become law,” she said.Former Uttar Pradesh chief minister and Samajwadi Party leader Akhilesh Yadav said the farmers were not getting minimum support price even now in several parts of the country and hit out at Prime Minister Modi’s “andolanjeevi” remark during his speech in the Rajya Sabha on Monday. “The nation attained independence through agitation. Innumerable rights were received through agitation. Women received the right to vote through agitation. Mahatma Gandhi became the Father of the Nation because he agitated...,” Yadav said. “What is being said about the agitations? That people are ‘andolanjeevi’. What should I call the people who go out to collect donations? Are they not members of ‘chandajeevi sangathan’?”Meanwhile, in a written reply to the Lower House, Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar said that the PM Modi-led government had set an ambitious target of doubling farmers’ incomes by 2022.Responding to a query on whether the target fixed for the year 2022 can be achieved at the present annual growth, the minister said: “The government has been pursuing the target of doubling farmers’ incomes.”He said the implementation of various recommendations and comprehensive interventions of the government are “having a positive impact on growth of agriculture and income of farmers”.The minister also mentioned that the committee on doubling farmers’ incomes recommended seven sources of income growth, including improvement in crop productivity and livestock productivity.Participating in the debate, National Conference president Farooq Abdullah on Tuesday said in the Lok Sabha that the farm laws were not religious scriptures that could not be changed.Citing the example of revoking Article 370 in Jammu and Kashmir, the NC chief said: “The government had not discussed the issue with us (stakeholders) nor did they discuss the farm laws with them (farmers).”Abdullah also expressed concern over Covid-19 deaths and said it was essential to distribute coronavirus vaccines across the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/opposition-leaders-hit-out-at-govt-on-farm-laws-101612908308111.html
10-02-2021||India||Environment of enmity must end: Farm unions||A day ahead of a crucial meeting of farm unions, leaders of the over two-month-long protest against three farm laws said on Tuesday that direct talks with the government were the only way to end the agitation for which, they added, the government must end “the atmosphere of enmity” by lifting restrictions on the Internet and restoring essential services, such as water and electricity, at protest sites.The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), the platform of farm unions spearheading the protests, will hold its full working committee meeting on Wednesday, in which its leaders would discuss ways to scale up their campaign and reiterate their stand on being open to talks, said Darshan Pal, a key farm leader.Prime Minister Narendra Modi, speaking in Parliament on Monday, had urged farmers to end their agitation and resume dialogue and assured them that a system of minimum floor prices for key crops would continue as usual. The farm unions, however, lashed out at the PM for calling supporters of the farmers’ agitation “andolan jeevi,” or protest parasites.So far 11 rounds of talks between 40 farm leaders and the government have failed to resolve the crisis. Both the government and farmers had called off the series of discussions on January 22, citing lack of progress. The unions have rejected the government’s offer to freeze the laws for 18 months, demanding their repeal .“The Prime Minister has said the government is open to dialogue. We are open too. It is up to the government to follow up on what the prime minister said,” Pal told HT.Pal said the unions would continue the protests and discuss the agitation’s next course, especially on strengthening it in other states, in their general body meeting.Tens of thousands of farmers, braving cold weather, have been camping in the open since November 26 on national highways leading to Delhi to demand the repeal of three pro-reform farm laws.The government has said that the laws will bring investments and give farmers freedom to sell their produce directly to large buyers in a sector that accounts for nearly 15% of India’s $2.9 trillion economy and employs half its workforce. Farmers say the laws will threaten their livelihoods by forcing them to sell to corporate giants instead of government-run markets.Wednesday’s full meeting of the SKM willl brainstorm on ways to scale up protests in multiple states. “We will organize many more mahapanchayats (rural meetings). Farmers across the country are united and we will continue to protest until the black laws are repealed,” said Rakesh Tikait, a farm leader who has organized several large rural rallies called mahapanchayats in the past week, as part of the protests.The farm unions, while emphasizing that they believed in talks even as the protests continue, blamed the government for creating a confrontational atmosphere.“Only direct talks with the government will end the agitation. But for the dialogue to resume, the government must end the atmosphere of enmity. The PM must show magnanimity and offer something new,” Hannan Mollah, another working committee member of the SKM, said.He said the government must restore the internet at protest sites and resume essential facilities, such as water and electricity. “Such steps would help in restarting the dialogue”.His views were echoed by descriptor Kavitha Kuruganti, who said while farmers were open to a resumption of talks, “attacks on farmers must stop”.Police have summoned or arrested several farm leaders after turmoil on Republic Day, when farmers clashed with police and breached the Red Fort during a planned tractor rally in the national capital.The issue has also garnered global attention with celebrities such as popstar Rihanna and environmental campaigner Greta Thunberg announcing their support for the farmers. The external affairs ministry has slammed international comments in support of the farmers’ agitation as “inaccurate and irresponsible”, saying “vested interest groups” were trying to build opinion against the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/only-direct-talks-with-govt-can-end-stir-farm-unions-101612908054518.html
10-02-2021||India||Tears and praises: Rajya Sabha bids emotional farewell to Azad||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday heaped praise on Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad by describing him as a leader who cared not just for his party, but about the country and its Parliament, and welled up while describing shared experiences with Azad, whose tenure in the Upper House ends on February 15.“I am concerned that whoever is appointed to his position may not be able to match up to him,” Modi said, pointing to Azad, who was sitting across the hall in the slot occupied by the Opposition floor leader in the Rajya Sabha.“Posts come, power comes but how to handle these one must learn from Ghulam Nabi Azad,” the PM added. He saluted in his direction, and said:“On the basis of events and experiences, I respect him as a friend.”Modi also complimented Azad for being a stellar Parliamentarian whose word he respected, and on a lighter note, for his interest in gardening.Modi’s emotional farewell speech for Azad came while he was talking about the members of the House whose tenures end this month -- these, apart from Azad, are Nazir Ahmad Laway (February 15), and Mir Mohammed Fayyaz of the People’s Democratic Party and Shamsher Singh Manhas (February 10) of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).While speaking at length about his association with Azad, the PM recalled how, as the then chief minister of Jammu and Kashmir, Azad called Modi as the then chief minister of Gujarat, after several tourists from Modi’s state were attacked in a terror ambush in the Valley in May 2006.“He had not just called to inform me... his tears were flowing uncontrolled. Pranab Mukherjee was then the defence minister, and I called him to ask if the defence planes could be provided for ferrying the bodies… At night Ghulam Nabi ii called me from the airport. He sounded as concerned as people are when talking about their own family members,” the PM said, pausing as he was overcome with emotion and had to take a few sips of water before continuing.When Azad later referred to the same incident in his speech, he got emotional as well. He said there have been only a few occasions when he wept aloud, and the incident that the PM recounted was one of them.“When I went to the airport. These young kids who had lost family members clung to my legs, weeping. I could not control myself and wept aloud,” Azad said, his voice quavering.In his farewell speech, Azad -- he has spent 28 years of his 40 years as a parliamentarian in the Rajya Sabha -- said he was a proud Indian, and that when he reads about circumstances in Pakistan, he feels proud to be a Hindustani Muslim.“If any Muslim should feel proud in the world, it should be the Indian Muslim. Over the years we have seen how Muslim countries from Afghanistan to Iraq are getting destroyed. There are no Hindus or Christians there, they are fighting amongst themselves…” Azad said.He also recalled how he had the opportunity of learning from not just Congress leaders but also imbibed lessons in politics from BJP stalwarts. “I learnt how to be the leader of the opposition from Atalji...how to break a deadlock, how to run the House,” he said.Earlier, referring to the two PDP MPs, Modi said he had heard their views on various subjects in his chambers several times. And recalling how he would go riding a scooter with Manhas when they were party workers in Jammu & Kashmir, the PM said he cannot even recall how long their association dates back to. Appreciating his dedication, he pointed out that Manhas’s attendance in the house has been 96%, and whatever responsibilities have been given to him, he has perform them to the best of his ability.Modi went on to say that his doors are open for all four retiring members as their experience and suggestions are necessary for the country. “Your experience will be very valuable... I will keep expecting this and I will not allow you to retire.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tears-and-praises-rajya-sabha-bids-emotional-farewell-to-azad-101612907770618.html
10-02-2021||India||Allahabad HC comes to rescue of man fired over sexual orientation||The Allahabad high court has reinstated a Bulandshahr man in a government job after he was fired for his sexual orientation on the basis of a video that filmed him with his same-sex partner. The court underlined that a person’s sexual orientation was their individual choice.The order was passed by justice Sunita Agarwal on February 2 but made public on Tuesday. It came on a dismissal order passed by the Bulandshahr district commandant of home guards on June 11, 2019, firing the petitioner, Pramod Kumar Sharma, from his position as a home guard.The dismissal order came after unidentified people filmed Sharma with his partner and uploaded it on social media. In the dismissal order, the commandant referred to the sexual orientation of the petitioner as “indulgence in untoward activity”. But the HC rejected the reasoning and said it violated the Supreme Court’s landmark 2018 verdict in Navtej Johar vs Union of India that decriminalised homosexuality and upheld the rights of the Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender (LGBT) community. “It was held that any display of affection amongst the members of the LGBT community towards their partners in the public, so long as it does not amount to indecency or has the potentiality to disturb public order, cannot be bogged down by majority perception,” the court order read.The court ordered the UP commandant general of home guards to take Sharma back in service with immediate effect.“From the reading of the [dismissal] order itself, it is found to be vindictive in nature,” the order said.Sharma’s lawyers hailed the order. “We were able to argue that the man was dismissed from his job with no opportunity to make his case, investigation, or inquiry committee,” said Awadesh Kumar Malviya, who represented Sharma.Sharma was hired as a home guard in 1985 and promoted as an assistant company commander in 1992. On May 25, 2019, he was served with a show-cause notice by the Bulandshahr district commandant of home guards and asked to explain the video showing him with another man, also a home guard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/allahabad-hc-comes-to-rescue-of-man-fired-over-sexual-orientation-101612906957437.html
10-02-2021||India||Over 30% deaths in ’18 caused by fossil fuels: Study||Over 30% of deaths in India in 2018 were caused by air pollution from the burning of fossil fuels, a new study conducted by scientists from Harvard University, University of Birmingham, the University of Leicester and University College London have found. Researchers estimated that exposure to particulate matter from fossil fuel emissions accounted for 18% of total global deaths in 2018, which was around one out of five.The study, which has been published in Environmental Research, a peer-reviewed journal, states that more than 8 million people are killed each year by air pollution from burning fossil fuels like coal and diesel. However, topping the global charts in the most number of such deaths was India and China.China had the highest premature mortality with 3.91 million deaths and India accounted for 2.46 million deaths.Data collected by the researchers showed that in India, Uttar Pradesh, where 471,456 additional deaths were reported because of fossil fuels, reported the maximum deaths caused by exposure to fossil fuel fumes. This was followed by Bihar with 288,821 deaths caused by fossil fuel burning and West Bengal, where 276, 312 such deaths took place.The study also stated that Haryana, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu also reported over 1 lakh (each) such deaths.Scientists said that while previous researches on similar areas relied on satellite and surface observations to estimate the average global annual concentrations of airborne particulate matter, known as PM2.5 (ultrafine particulate matter with diameter less than 2.5 micrometres), the satellite and surface observations were unable to tell the difference between particles from fossil fuel emissions and those from dust, wildfire smoke or other sources.In this study, however, the scientists have used a more advanced technology of GEOS-Chem, a global 3-D model of atmospheric chemistry, which has a high spatial resolution.This means that the researchers could divide the globe into a grid with boxes as small as 50 km x 60 km and look at pollution levels in each box individually.“Rather than rely on averages spread across large regions, we wanted to map where the pollution is and where people live, so we could know more (about) exactly what people are breathing,” said Karn Vohra, a graduate student at the University of Birmingham and first author of the study.Environment and health experts stressed on the need for governments to control the use of fossil fuels and check on the emissions caused by it, to prevent such premature deaths.“When we see that deaths from fossil fuel combustion exceed deaths from malaria by a factor of 20, we must recognise that this is a major global health crisis,” said Sarah Hsu, executive vice chair, Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University.“...As healthcare workers, we have the obligation and opportunity to save millions of lives by advocating for clean energy, divesting from fossil fuels, and de-carbonizing our healthcare facilities,” Hsu said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-30-deaths-in-18-caused-by-fossil-fuels-study-101612906705160.html
10-02-2021||India||Number theory: The Covid-19 story across the country’s districts||India has recorded at least 10.8 million confirmed cases of Covid-19, the second highest in the world after the US. But the trajectory of the new cases in India has been showing a promising trend – one that actually started almost five months back. India recorded 11,492 daily new cases on average in the week ending February 7, only 12% of the peak – 93,617 cases were recorded at peak on September 16. India is so far the only country among the five countries with the highest number of confirmed cases to not have seen a second wave of the infection. New cases of the infection are now significantly lower than the peak in most parts of India except in the state of Kerala.Click here for complete Covid-19 coverage1. Daily cases nil in 25% districts, below 20 in other 64% districtsOf the 707 districts – this includes 11 revenue districts of Delhi as one single unit – data for which is compiled by How India Lives, a quarter have reported zero daily new cases on average in seven days ending January 31. A majority 56% have reported fewer than 10 new daily cases on average while only 21 districts (or 3%) have reported more than 100 daily cases on average in this period. This is a significant improvement over the last four months. In mid-September, only about 9% districts were recording no new cases while 28% districts were reporting at least 100 new cases daily on average.2. Most districts are far off from their peaksDaily new cases reported in 89% of the districts in the week ending January 31 are under 10% of their respective peaks. No district in India is at its peak at present. The case tally on January 31 was at least 50% of the peak in only 10 districts, nine of them in Kerala and one in Chhattisgarh.India’s daily new cases peaked in mid-September. September is also the month when cases peaked in nearly 45% of India’s districts. Some districts hit the peak even before September. Seven districts hit their peaks in January this year.3. Kerala is an outlierKerala is currently the only state showing a rising trend in the daily new cases in India. Nearly half of the country’s new cases in the week ending February 7 have been reported from Kerala. Its share in the country’s new cases has been rising fast. It was 25% on January 1 and even lower, 15%, on December 1. Maharashtra, the state with the second-highest number of confirmed cases, has around 20% share in the country’s new cases now compared to as high as over 40% in June last year.What lies aheadDaily new cases being reported in India at present are only around 12% of the country’s peak. India has so far not seen a second wave of infections unlike most other big countries. New cases in the US stopped dropping after the first wave when the new cases were 64% of the first peak (and the second wave began). In Brazil, the third most affected country by case count, cases stopped decreasing when they reached 29% of the first peak (and the second wave began). This figure was 43% in Russia. Compared to them, India’s new case tally has so far seen a significant drop. But this should not make anyone complacent. This is because there are other examples such as the United Kingdom and France where cases after the first peak dropped to as low as 7.3% and 2.4% of their first peaks before rising again, ultimately overtaking peaks seen in the first wave. To be sure, the situation in India at present is very different – there is an ongoing vaccination drive and a significant share of population in big cities has reportedly developed immunity – and the chances of a second wave may be lower than the example cited above. But why be sorry later, when one can be safe now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/number-theory-the-covid-19-story-across-the-country-s-districts-101612905375196.html
10-02-2021||India||Uttarakhand disaster: Hopes of tunnel rescue dim as flood toll hits 32||Rescuers scoured ravines and waded through slush to find victims of devastating flash floods in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli region on Tuesday but struggled to break through a column of mud and debris choking a key tunnel with dozens of workers trapped inside.Toll from the tragedy climbed to 32 as rescue personnel pulled out bodies, some of which were lodged in knee-deep silt or atop trees. At least 174 people are still missing — 35 of them inside the 1.7km tunnel at the Tapovan power project where two days of excavation has failed to make much headway.“There is almost no progress… there is a ‘T bend’ at a distance of 180m but there is so much muck inside that after clearing till 150m, the muck from inside is again filling the cleared area,” said state director general of police Ashok Kumar.Also Read | Rescuers race against time to save 37 men trapped in tunnel in Chamoli’s TapovanIn Delhi, Union home minister Amit Shah told Parliament that Prime Minister Narendra Modi was monitoring the situation and that efforts were being made on a war footing to rescue people.“I assure the House that the Centre is extending all possible assistance to the state government for relief and rescue work. The central government is working in close coordination with the state and all necessary steps, which are considered appropriate, are being taken,” he told Rajya Sabha.Shah added that according to the state government, there was no danger of downstream flooding and the rise in water level was contained. The first instalment of ₹468.50 crore, out of an allocation of ₹1,041 crore under the State Disaster Risk Management Fund (SDRMF), was released to the state, he said.The disaster struck on Sunday morning, when a glacier breach sent a torrent of water, rock and dust hurtling down a valley into the Rishiganga river, where workers were building a dam.Visuals showed floodwaters smashing most of the plant before roaring downstream into the Dhauliganga and partially damaging the National Thermal Power Corporation’s (NTPC) 530 MW Tapovan Vishnugrad project, roughly 8km away.The surging waters washed away homes, cut off 13 villages, and snapped crucial road links and bridges. The disaster is the worst to hit the state since the 2013 Kedarnath floods killed 5,700 people and highlighted the impact of the climate crisis and degradation of the fragile ecology.A focus of the operation is the 1.7km tunnel. Since Sunday, rescue workers have used machine excavators and shovels to clear sludge from the tunnel in an attempt to reach the workers as hopes for their survival fade.“We have been able to clear about 110m of the slush from the tunnel, but we may have not covered even half of the distance. The drones didn’t help much. We can’t say how long the rescue operation will go on,” said Benudhar Nayak, commandant of the Indo Tibetan Border Police’s (ITBP) first battalion.Rescuers used wooden planks to negotiate the mud, and even tried to rappel into the tunnel by fixing hooks to the roof, but couldn’t make much progress.“We tried to push in our men, but there isn’t enough working space inside. Also, as we go deeper, we are facing a barrage of slush and debris hurtling towards us,” said an army lieutenant colonel requesting not to be named.Until Tuesday evening, there was no contact with the trapped men, which include engineers and labourers. According to a map with the authorities, the men are stranded at a point where the main tunnel is joined by a 240m-long subsidiary tunnel.“The rescue workers are thinking to drill the tunnel from outside and then get inside with the help of ropes to rescue the trapped workers,” said Kumar.Personnel rescued 12 people on Sunday evening from the other end of the tunnel. They told authorities that a bulldozer and two multi-utility vehicles are trapped with the 35 men.“We see that as good news. The vehicles could possibly have stopped slush from drowning the trapped men. They could also have served as a safe space for them,” said Rajiv Chhibber, an army major general.As hope of the rescue dimmed and officers refused to give a time frame for the operation, clots of distraught relatives gathered at the site.“I couldn’t bear the cold at night. I don’t know how my brother will survive inside. I am just hoping he has found a space inside one of the vehicles stranded inside,” said Sunil Pal, whose brother Amit Pal is trapped.Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat inspected the 13 villages cut off by the floodwaters and said the government was air dropping relief packets for the 2,500 stranded people. “I would urge all the people to keep calm as government has all the required resources to tackle the situation,” he said.A list of missing people released by the state government showed the maximum were workers at the two power plants, who hailed from Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab, West Bengal, Jharkhand and other states. The list also included 12 local villagers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-disaster-hopes-of-tunnel-rescue-dim-as-flood-toll-hits-32-101612905083922.html
10-02-2021||India||Will hold mahapanchayats in all states to unite farmers: Rakesh Tikait||Farmer leader Rakesh Tikait on Tuesday said the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha will hold Kisan Mahapanchayats in all states of the country to unite and mobilise farmers against the three new farm laws.Addressing a gathering at Gumthla Garhu in Kurukshetra, Tikait said, “The Prime Minister (PM) said the andolan is restricted to only a few states. We have decided to unite all farmers in the country by holding mahapanchayats in every state. We will organise such panchayats in Maharashtra, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal, and bring 40 lakh tractors to the agitation.”Reacting to the PM’s statement in which he warned the country against “andolanjeevis” (those who live off protests), and the influence of FDI (“foreign destructive ideology”), Tikait said, “This government has lost its conscience. They are terming us as Parjeevi (parasites) and andolanjeevi. I want to ask them whether freedom fighter Bhagat Singh was also a Parjeevi for he led the andolan for the freedom of this country.”“Hum andolankari hai, par jumlebaaz nahi (We are agitators, not those who make false promises),” he said in an interaction with mediapersons.Urging farmers to stay united and support the agitation, Tikait said, “They are trying to divide us on the basis of religion, region and size of land holdings. But a farmer is a farmer and we all are united against these laws.” He added that the agitation will go on till October 2 and beyond if required.Later in the evening, Tikait also reached Karnal’s Bastara toll plaza on the NH-44 where farmers were protesting.Reacting to the arrest of Deep Sidhu, he said that he police should investigate this case to find out if there was a conspiracy behind this incident. On being asked about chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s statement wherein he asked Tikat to interact with the farmers of UP and not to make Haryana his Kurukshetra, Tikait said he was a resident of Haryana and the whole country was his home.‘Laws will affect every citizen, especially poor’ On PM’s proposal for talks, Tikait reiterated that farmer leaders were ready to talk with the government if they are invited through a proper channel. In an attempt to garner support of labourers and small shopkeepers, Tikait said the new laws will affect every citizen of this country, especially the poor as they will have to buy food grains at higher rates from big corporations.Yudhvir Singh, another farmer leader, said, “The government tried to divide farmers. Our unity has defeated their attempts to end this agitation. We want to tell the government that our agitation is disciplined and peaceful.” He said they will not allow the government to end the Mandi system which was a gift of peasant leaders like Late Chhotu Ram.He further said, “The PM’s ego will ruin the country. Even in the Parliament, he called us a new zamat of andolanjeevis. Either the PM is trying to befool us or he does not know anything about agriculture.”Harinder Singh Lakhowal, a farmer leader from Punjab and Khap panchayat leaders, also urged the farmers to get united for the protest. In support of the agitation, Punjabi singer Rupinder Handa also announced to return the award she was given by the Haryana government in 2016.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-hold-mahapanchayats-in-all-states-to-unite-farmers-tikait-101612898338471.html
10-02-2021||India||Deep Sidhu spent 13 days as fugitive with friends, was active on Facebook||Farmers protesters at Singhu border never allowed actor-activist Deep Sidhu to speak from the stage because of his “association with the ruling party” and his “extremist views”, said Harinder Happy, a member of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha -- a group of 40 farm unions that is spearheading the agitation against the three farm laws.But, around 8pm on January 25, Sidhu allegedly hijacked the stage and addressed the people. “He delivered a provocative speech. We asked him to leave the spot immediately. Nobody saw him after that,” Happy said.Also Read | Come forward: Delhi Police appeal for information on Jan 26 violenceProtesters at the Singhu border claim that was the last they saw of Sidhu until he was seen again at the Red Fort during the Republic Day’s tractor parade.Delhi police are now trying to piece together the sequence of events from that evening to the afternoon of January 26, when Sidhu was seen among those who stormed the Red Fort, vandalised the monument and hoisted two flags —one of the farmers union and another a religious flag.Police are also probing if someone else was also involved with Sidhu in planning the vandalisation at Red Fort. Police have alleged that the violence during the rally and the events at the Unesco World Heritage site, were not spontaneous acts but were planned as part of a conspiracy. At least 394 police officials and 10 farmers were injured when protesters deviated from the pre-approved routes of the tractor rally and clashed with police when they were stopped from entering parts of New Delhi and Central Delhi.Police officials, who are privy to the details of Sidhu’s interrogation, said on January 26, as soon as his photographs and videos started circulating in the media, the actor quietly fled to Sonipat, about 20 km away from Singhu border. He was with many friends and supporters, but their numbers thinned as the calls for his arrest grew louder. Police suspect that he borrowed vehicles from his friends as some of the vehicles that Sidhu was using, until January 26, were not spotted by any CCTV camera installed at the toll plaza on the GT Karnal Road.“For the first 24 hours, his phone was on. He was staying at a friend’s place in Sonipat. On January 26, he released his first Facebook Live, claiming innocence and hitting at those who branded him a traitor” said an investigator associated with the case.At 8pm on January 27, the Delhi police held a press conference reiterating that no person involved in the violence will be spared.“Within two hours of the media briefing, at around 10pm, Sidhu switched off his cell phone. His last location was Sonipat. Then, he started changing his location,” the first investigating officer added.After the January 27 press conference, at least 12 teams of the crime branch, special cell, and the local police were conducting raids at multiple locations in Punjab and Haryana to find Sidhu. Police also tapped the phone number of many persons related to Sidhu. A team even visited his wife’s house in Purnea, Bihar.“He was not in Bihar either. We found that during all these days, Sidhu visited Chandigarh, Bilaspur(Himachal Pradesh), Amritsar, and then Karnal from where he was finally arrested. He has claimed that he stayed at his friend’s house. We are verifying this. He even removed his turban to avoid being identified. The videos of Sidhu at the Red Fort and in the days before the violence show him with a turban,” a second police officer added.On Monday night, when police arrested Sidhu, he was waiting for a car to flee to Purnea. “He was waiting at the Karnal bypass for a car that was offered by his associate for the journey, when the police team caught him around 10.30pm. He was hiding in Karnal and was dropped at the bypass by another associate on a bike, just 10 minutes before his arrest,” the officer said.A third police officer, who did not wish to be identified, said on February 3, after Delhi police announced ₹1 lakh reward on Sidhu’s arrest, Sidhu found himself cornered and could not find many friends to shield him while in hiding.“He could have passed off as one of the farmers among the thousands already on the GT Karnal road with their tractors. But the farmers union had distanced themselves from Sidhu, so this made it more difficult for him to hide. He had to stay away from the protest sites. We have information that he visited some of his friends near Singhu (not the main stage or near farm leaders) on February 1 but he did not stay there for long. We will question him on why he visited the border again,” the third officer added.But even while in hiding for 13 days, Sidhu was active on his Facebook account. Between, January 26 and February 8(until his arrest), he uploaded five videos and claimed that he was not among the rioters; reiterated that lies were being spread against him; and asked people to stay united. He also wrote posts about how the protest started after the farm laws were passed in September and the “reality of the political and social structure” and alleged that he was “set up by the farm union leaders”.On Tuesday afternoon, hours after Sidhu’s arrest, special cell deputy commissioner of police Sanjeev Yadav said such posts and videos were uploaded by Sidhu’s friend from the US and that Sidhu was careful to not do it himself to avoid arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/deep-sidhu-spent-13-days-as-fugitive-with-friends-was-active-on-facebook-101612897601631.html
10-02-2021||India||IEA calls for overhaul of energy mix for zero emissions by 2060||India needs to adopt transformational changes in its energy mix to be able to transition to net zero emissions by the mid-2060s, according to the India Energy Outlook report by the International Energy Agency (IEA) on Tuesday.Net zero emissions mean that any new greenhouse gas emissions are balanced by absorbing an equivalent amount from the atmosphere. Several countries including the United States, China and members of the European Union have already announced plans to achieve net zero emissions in the coming decades.To achieve net zero emissions by the 2060s, India’s energy sector will need “profound transformation,” the India Energy Outlook said. India is the fourth largest global energy consumer now after China, the United States and the European Union.Also Read | India inks MoU with IEA for global energy security, sustainabilityAt current rates of growth, India will overtake the European Union by 2030 to move up to third position. India’s rate of gross domestic product (GDP) growth will add the equivalent of another Japan to the world economy by 2040, IEA said.For India to achieve net zero emissions, energy demand in 2040 should fall nearly 30% below the projected level, based on current policies, with a complete switch from traditionalbiomass-based energy. India will have to shift away from coal, and solar photovoltaic cells will have to take up coal’s share of electricity generation a full decade ahead of what current policies envisage, the IEA report explained.“As the report highlights, India needs to work towards a climate resilient and low carbon development strategy. This can be achieved by looking at sectoral transitions (particularly in energy, transport and industry sectors). We are seeing that energy efficiency continues to increase, largely driven by energy-intensity reduction across sectors. Further, electrification of fossil fuel use (e.g., in transport) will accelerate – especially as system-wide cost-effectiveness increases. Green hydrogen and biomass-based fuels will predominate in applications where electrification is not viable,” said Abhishek Kaushik, Associate Fellow and Area Convener, Centre for Global Environment Research, The Energy and Resources Institute.In addition, oil demand will have to plateau by the end of the 2020s while the share of alternative fuels in road transport – electricity, gas and bioenergy -- will have to rise. Together these alternative fuels will have to meet 35% of road transport demand by 2040.Fossil fuels will have to account for less than 60% of primary energy demand by 2040 and use of traditional biomass falls need to drop to zero by 2030, as clean cooking goals are fully achieved, the report said. spelling out the changes India needs to make.India’s energy consumption has at least doubled since 2000, propelled by a growing population and rapid economic growth. Over 900 million citizens have gained an electrical connection in less than two decades according to the report. But at least 80% of India’s energy needs are still primarily met by three fuels: coal, oil and solid biomass.Oil consumption and imports have grown rapidly due to rising vehicle ownership and road transport use. Despite expanding coverage of liquified petroleum gas (LPG) in rural areas, 660 million Indians have not fully switched to clean cooking fuels, the report said.On the brighter side, the report said solar power is set for explosive growth in India, matching coal’s share in the Indian power generation mix within two decades.Presently, solar energy accounts for less than 4% of India’s electricity generation, and coal close to 70%. By 2040, they are likely to converge in the 30%s driven by India’s target to reach 450 GW of renewable energy capacity by 2030. Solar is also likely to out-compete existing coal-fired plants in terms of cost. Coal’s hold over India’s power sector is already loosening, according to IEA.IEA said India will overachieve one of its nationally determined contributions (NDC) under the Paris climate change agreement of reducing the emission intensity of GDP by 33 to 35% compared to 2005 levels. India is likely to achieve this under current policies “with a CO2 emissions intensity reduction of over 40% by 2030,” the report said.It has warned that India’s combined import bill for fossil fuels. especially oil, is likely to triple over the next two decades. “Domestic production of oil and gas continues to fall behind consumption trends and net dependence on imported oil rises above 90% by 2040, up from 75% today. This continued reliance on imported fuels creates vulnerabilities to price cycles and volatility as well as possible disruptions to supply,” it said.The Covid-19 pandemic led to fall of about 5% in the country’s energy demand in 2020 due to lockdowns with coal and oil use suffering the biggest falls. The pandemic also hit investment in the energy sector, which fell by an estimated 15% in 2020.“IEA’s India Energy Outlook 2021 once again highlights that emerging economies such as India are at the forefront of the global energy transition. In 2010, India had less than 20 megawatts (MW) of solar. Today, India offers one of the largest renewable energy markets operating on market principles,” said Arunabha Ghosh, CEO of the Council on Energy, Environment and Water“ Transitions in energy efficiency, sustainable mobility and sustainable cooling are also underway. India now needs to focus on reducing the cost of finance for clean energy projects, providing access to capital to finance distributed clean energy systems, driving capital to help small and medium industries become energy-efficient, and exploring innovative financing models for R&D {research and development} for disruptive technologies like green hydrogen to further accelerate the energy transition,” Ghosh added..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iea-calls-for-overhaul-of-energy-mix-for-zero-emissions-by-2060-101612895157540.html
10-02-2021||NA||Highlights: Actor Deep Sidhu, key accused in Jan 26 violence case, arrested by Delhi Police||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday in his reply to the motion of thanks on President Ram Nath Kovind's address in Rajya Sabha said that the government is working towards empowering small farmers. He also reiterated that minimum support prices (MSP) will continue and mandis will be modernised. “MSP was there. MSP is there. MSP will remain there in the future,” PM Modi said. After the speech, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait responded by saying that a law was needed on MSP. "Prime Minister said 'MSP hai, tha aur rahega' today but he did not say that a law will be formed on MSP... the country does not run on trust. It runs on the constitution and law," said Tikait.In a symbolic protest on Saturday, farmers staged a 'chakka jam' for three hours, nationwide, during which farmers blocked major state and national highways. The protest was largely peaceful and the farmers said that they are ready to resume talks with the government, reiterating their demand for repeal of the three contentious laws. Thousands of farmers have been protesting since November 26, demanding a rollback of the three farm laws: Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.Follow all the updates here:Harsimrat Kaur Badal accuses Centre of passing farm laws without consultationHarsimrat Kaur Badal said that the Centre did not listen to the opposition, or their own allies regarding the implementation of the farm laws.Harsimrat Kaur Badal slams use of tear gas, water cannons against farmersHarsimrat Kaur Badal said that protesting was a basic human right but tear gas, water cannons were used to break down farmers protests by the government was not. "No politician expressed remorse for the death of the 150 farmers, no speech expressed any regret," she added.Akhilesh Yadav questions govt's decision to not rollback farm lawsSP leader Akhilesh Yadav questioned why the Centre was not withdrawing the farm laws if the farmers were not accepting them. "If Govt says that laws are for farmers, why is it not taking it back, if farmers aren't accepting it? People, for whom it has been formed, don't want it. Who is stopping Govt? Are allegations that you rolled out carpet for corporates & brought these laws not right?" he asked.Deep Sidhu remanded to seven day police custodyBreaking: Delhi Court remands Deep Sidhu to 7 days police custody in connection to the violence and flag hoisting at Red Fort on R- Day. @htTweetsDelhi Court remands Deep Sidhu to 7 days police custody in connection to the violence and flag hoisting at Red Fort on R- Day.Defense counsel says that Sidhu is not running awayDefense counsel says that Sidhu is not running away. He is not evading the process. He just happened to be at the wrong place and the wrong time. Sidhu got to know from the media that the flag is hoisted. @htTweetsDefense counsel says that Sidhu is not running away. He is not evading the process. He just happened to be at the wrong place and the wrong time. Sidhu got to know from the media that the flag is hoisted.Sidhu seen entering with swords, sticks, flags: PolicePolice say he was seen entering in a video with swords, sticks and flags. He provoked the people and gave speeches with a loud hailer thus inciting violence. Defense counsel opposes the remand application and says that police should not require such a long remand. @htTweetsPolice say he was seen entering in a video with swords, sticks and flags. He provoked the people and gave speeches with a loud hailer thus inciting violence. Defense counsel opposes the remand application and says that police should not require such a long remand.Police say 140 personnel were injuredPolice also tells that 140 policemen were injured and the protestors breached the security and they deviated from the actual route which was assigned for the Tractors' Rally during R- Day. @htTweetsPolice also tells that 140 policemen were injured and the protestors breached the security and they deviated from the actual route which was assigned for the Tractors' Rally during R- Day.Sidhu's permanent address in Nagpur: PolicePolice says that his permanent address is in Nagpur and they have to also visit Punjab and Haryana to ascertain the links. Says that he congratulated the person who hoisted the flag at Red Fort and also did a Facebook Live from the spot. @htTweetsPolice says that his permanent address is in Nagpur and they have to also visit Punjab and Haryana to ascertain the links. Says that he congratulated the person who hoisted the flag at Red Fort and also did a Facebook Live from the spot.Delhi Police inform court that Sidhu was main instigator of R-Day violenceDelhi Police inform city Court that actor Deep Sidhu was the main rioter and instigator in the R- Day violence. Police alleges that Sidhu instigated the protestors, destroyed public property. Seeks 10 days remand saying that his social media has to be searched. @htTweetsDelhi Police inform city Court that actor Deep Sidhu was the main rioter and instigator in the R- Day violence. Police alleges that Sidhu instigated the protestors, destroyed public property. Seeks 10 days remand saying that his social media has to be searched.Delhi police seeks ten-day custody of Deep SidhuThe Delhi police has sought a ten-day custody of Deep Sidhu after the former actor was produced before a metropolitan Magistrate at Tis Hazari Court for his role in the violence that unfurled during the tractor rally on Republic Day.SC stays arrest of Shashi Tharoor, journalistsSupreme Court stays arrest of Congress leader Shashi Tharoor, & senior journalists, while hearing the petition challenging registration of multiple FIRs against them for allegedly sharing certain unconfirmed news on death of a protester, during the tractor rally on Republic Day.Deep Sidhu, an accused in January 26 violence case, arrested: Delhi PolicePunjabi actor-turned-activist ctor Deep Sidhu, who was allegedly involved in the violence and vandalism at the Red Fort during the farmers’ tractor rally on January 26, was arrested by Delhi Police's special cell late on Monday night, officials said on Tuesday. Read moreAdditional deployment at Delhi borders withdrawnAdditional deployment of Delhi Police personnel at the three borders points of Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur, where farmers are camping for over two months to protest against the three farm laws,was withdrawn from Monday evening. The security arrangements in these places will now be taken care of by personnel belonging to the police districts concerned, senior police officers privy to the development said. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-stir-live-farmer-protest-updates-february-9-hindustan-times-101612837803279.html
10-02-2021||NA||LIVE: Vaccine hesitancy is a personal issue not a population level issue, says Union health ministry||India on Tuesday registered 9,110 coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases and 84 more related deaths which pushed the overall tally to over 10.8 million, according to the Union health ministry’s dashboard. The active cases have further declined to 143,625 while 10,548,521 people have recovered till now. This is the fifth time that the country’s daily death count went below the 100-mark. The toll stands at 155,158.The Union health ministry had said on Monday that 17 states and Union Territories (UTs) did not add any death in the last 24 hours including Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Nagaland, Tripura among others. While five states amounted for 81 per cent of the country’s active caseload. Maharashtra and Kerala together contribute for 70 per cent of the total active cases, the ministry added.Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday hailed India’s fight against the pandemic in Rajya Sabha and said that the credit for this went to the country and not to the Centre. He added that the world recognised that India had played a crucial role in saving humanity.Meanwhile, the global coronavirus disease tally stood at 106,996,618 of which 2,335,623 died and 78,835,652 have recovered, according to worldometers.info figures.Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, the World Health Organization’s (WHO) director general said on Monday that the emergence of new Covid-19 variants has raised questions about whether or not existing vaccines will work. He further called for manufacturers to be ready to quickly adapt their vaccines so that they would remain effective, according to news agency APFollow all the updates here:Karnataka records 366 new cases of Covid-19, 2 fatalitiesKarnataka reports 366 new #COVID19 cases, 513 discharges and 2 deaths today.Total cases 9,43,212Total discharges 9,25,167Death toll 12,241Active cases 5,785 pic.twitter.com/lnJhl9onQqGoa proposes to administer first dose of Covid-19 vaccine to all healthcare workers by Feb 12Goa aims to inoculate all healthcare workers by February 12, the state government said on Tuesday, reported news agency ANI.Manipur records 7 new cases of Covid-19, zero fatalitiesManipur reports 7 new #COVID19 cases and 15 recoveries today. Total cases: 29,137Total recoveries: 28,687Death toll: 373Active cases: 77Recovery Rate: 98.45% pic.twitter.com/HjeabqrILQMaharashtra records 2515 new cases of Covid-19, 35 deathsMaharashtra reports 2,515 new COVID-19 cases, 2,554 recoveries, and 35 deaths in the last 24 hours, as per State Health DepartmentTotal cases: 20,48,802Total recoveries: 19,61,525Active cases: 34,640Death toll: 51,360 pic.twitter.com/9rGc4q1gLpMaharashtra on Tuesday recorded 2515 new cases of Covid-19, taking the country wide tally to 20,48,802. In the last 24 hours 35 deaths were also reported, the death toll currently stands at 51,360, reported news agency ANI.Andhra Pradesh records 70 new cases of Covid-19Andhra Pradesh reports 70 new #COVID19 cases and 115 recoveries in the last 24 hours. Total cases 8,88,555Total recoveries 8,80,478Death toll 7,160Active cases 917 pic.twitter.com/hhH8q4TAaVUK health minister says passengers arriving in UK will be quarantined in hotels for 10 days or longerUK health minister Matt Hancock told Reuters that international passengers arriving in UK will be escorted to hotels and quarantined for 10 days or longer. He also said that the country is in the process of ramping up testing facilities for international passengers.Delhi records 100 new cases of Covid-19, no fatalitiesDelhi reports 100 new #COVID19 cases and 144 recoveries in the last 24 hours, no deaths reported.Total cases 6,36,260Total recoveries 6,24,326Death toll 10,882Active cases 1052 pic.twitter.com/wlAZq3bzLnVaccine hesitancy is a personal issue not a population level issue: Union health ministryThe Union health ministry during a press briefing on Tuesday said citing data that 6.3 million people have embraced the vaccine, adding that if so many people take the vaccine in a country then vaccine hesitancy is not a population level issue but rather a personal one. The ministry also said that the goal of 100 percent satisfaction rate has been achieved.Deaths following inoculation not related to vaccination, says health ministryThe Union health ministry said on Tuesday that the meeting of the national AEFI committee took place in February 5, two cases were diagnosed as anaphylaxes. Deaths were found to be not related to vaccination. The histopathology and chemical analysis reports have been sought from the concerned state governments. A template is being built on this which will be put into the public domain as soon as possible.Healthcare workers to be given mop-up rounds for inoculationThe Union health ministry says healthcare workers who could not come for the scheduled vaccination sessions should be given a mop-up round to get vaccinated by March 6. States and UTs have been advised to be scheduled for vaccinated at least once by March 2021. Those who do not appear for the mop-up rounds will have to be relegated to the age appropriate rounds.Ethiopia has secured 9 million doses of Covid-19 vaccineThe Ethiopian health minister told news agency Reuters that the country has secured 9 million doses of Covid-19 vaccine till April. Adding that he hopes it would be enough to inoculate at least a fifth of total population of 110 million by the end of 2021.Indian Army training dogs to detect Covid-19 from sweat and urine samplesIndian Army dogs trained to detect COVID19 using sweat & urine samples. Labradors & indigenous breed Chippiparai being trained on urine samples & Cocker Spaniels on sweat samples. Based on samples' data tested till now, sensitivity is over 95%: Colonel Surender Saini (trainer) pic.twitter.com/jficT6fNhEIndian Army is training dogs like labradors, Chippiparai, and Cocker Spaniels to detect Covid-19 through urine and sweat samples, reported news agency ANI. Colonel Surender Saini told the agency that based on the samples tested till date the sensitivity levels of the canines is as high as 95 per cent.No provision of insurance for Covid vaccine recipients: MoS for healthThere is no provision of insurance for recipients of Covid-19 vaccine against any kind of side effects or medical complications that may arise due to the inoculation, Rajya Sabha was informed on Tuesday, reports PTI.Russia logs 15,019 new Covid-19 casesRussia reported 15,019 new Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, including 1,584 in Moscow, taking the national tally to 3,998,216 since the pandemic began, reports Reuters.Govt orders 10 million more doses of Covid vaccine from Serum InstituteIndia's government has ordered 10 million more doses of the AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine from the Serum Institute of India, a company spokesman told Reuters on Tuesday, reports Reuters.New case in Arunachal takes Covid tally to 16,831One more person tested positive for Covid-19 in Arunachal Pradesh, pushing the total caseload in the state to 16,831, a senior health department official said on Tuesday, reports PTI.China's CanSino Covid vaccine shows 65.7% efficacyCanSino Biologics Inc.’s experimental coronavirus vaccine has an efficacy rate of 65.7% at preventing symptomatic cases based on an analysis from late-stage trials, adding a one-shot candidate to the world’s growing arsenal against Covid-19, reports Bloomberg.First batch of AstraZeneca Covid vaccine arrives in GreeceGreece has received the first batch of the AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine and will begin vaccinations on February 15, the country's Health Ministry Secretary General for Primary Health Care Marios Themistokleous said at a ministry briefing, reports ANI.Maharashtra: Thane logs 200 fresh Covid-19 casesThane has reported 200 new cases of coronavirus, raising the infection count in the Maharashtra district to 2,55,949,an official said on Tuesday, reports PTI.Germany reports 3,379 fresh Covid casesThe number of confirmed coronavirus cases in Germany increased by 3,379 to 2,291,924, data from the Robert Koch Institute (RKI) for infectious diseases showed on Tuesday, reports Reuters.Mizoram reports 3 new Covid casesMizoram's Covid-19 tally rose to 4,386 on Tuesday as three more people tested positive for the infection, a health official said, reports PTIIndia adds 9,110 new Covid-19 cases, daily deaths further fall to 78India on Tuesday registered 9,110 coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases and 78 more related deaths which pushed the overall tally to over 10.8 million, according to the Union health ministry’s dashboard. The active cases have further declined to 143,625 while 10,548,521 people have recovered till now. This is the fifth time that the country’s daily death count went below the 100-mark.Jharkhand's Covid-19 tally nearing 120,000; 38 new cases addedJharkhand added 38 fresh coronavirus (Covid-19) disease cases on Tuesday which pushed the overall tally to 119,055. No fresh deaths were reported today, a health official told news agency PTI adding that 123,754 health workers have been administered Covid-19 vaccines doses till now.US transport secretary Pete Buttigieg after security detail gets infected with Covid-19United States transportation secretary Pete Buttigieg will quarantine for 14 days after a member of his security detail tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday. The agent had been “in close contact” with Buttigieg, including Monday morning prior to the agent's positive result, the Transportation Department said in a statement, reports AP.Manipur adds three new Covid-19 cases, tally nearing 4,4003 new #COVID19 case reported in Mizoram in the last 24 hours, as per state government. Total cases: 4,386Active cases: 27Discharges: 4,353Deaths: 9 pic.twitter.com/k1lZ52c1hwManipur reported three coronavirus (Covid-19) cases in the last 24 hours which pushed the tally to 4,386. A total of 4,353 people have been discharged while there are 27 active cases.Dutch govt will extend coronavirus curfew until March 3The Dutch government announced on Monday that it would extend the nationwide curfew to curb the spread of Covid-19 till March 3 adding that this was being done in order to slow the spread of the new variant of the virus which was first detected in Britain. The previous curfew was to be expired on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-india-world-latest-news-covid-19-death-toll-february-9-2021-101612834412410.html
10-02-2021||NA||Highlights: Lok Sabha adjourned till Wednesday 4pm||The budget session of Parliament started from January 29 and is being held in two parts amid strict coronavirus disease (Covid-19) norms--January 29 to February 15 and March 8 to April 8 and will have 33 sittings in total. Both the house will meet in shifts of five hours each. The Rajya Sabha will meet from 9am to 2pm and the Lok Sabha would meet from 3pm to 8pm.Prime Minister Narendra Modi is expected to reply to the motion of thanks to President Ram Nath Kovind’s address in the Lok Sabha on February 10. The Lower House of Parliament has been adjourned till 4pm today.On Tuesday morning, the Rajya Sabha bid farewell to Leader of Opposition (LoP) and Congress party veteran Ghulam Nabi Azad and three other members- all from Jammu and Kashmir, who would be retiring. Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu said that the Upper House benefited from Azad's contributions and he has been in the house since few decades.Prime Minister Narendra Modi said that the next person who would replace Azad as the next LoP would face difficulties as he was not only concerned about his party but also placed emphasis towards the Upper House and the country.Modi got emotional when he spoke about an unfortunate incident from the past when some people from Gujarat were stuck in Jammu and Kashmir due to a terror attack. The Prime Minister further spoke that how Azad offered assistance during that time.Meanwhile, Union home minister Amit Shah provided an update on the Uttarakhand glacier disaster where he said that central and state government agencies were monitoring the situation. "450 jawans of ITBP, 5 teams of NDRF, 8 teams of Indian Army, a Navy team and 5 IAF helicopters are engaged in search and rescue operation," he added.Follow all the updates here:Lok Sabha adjournedThe lower house of Parliament adjourned till Wednesday 4pm.BJP's Arvind Sharma says farmers' laws will benefit farmers, should be analysed carefullyArvind Sharma of BJP says during farmers protest Punjab farmers said Haryana is like their younger brother. If Haryana is being considered as a younger brother by Punjab, then I request the elder brother to discuss the contentious Sutlej-Yamuna Link (SYL) Canal issue. He also urged farmers' union representatives to analyse the reformatory laws carefully before taking any decisionsUnion minister Kailash Chaudhary says farmers have been extended several benefits under PM Modi's leadershipChaudhary says Centre has brought extensive reforms in the agriculture sector and blamed the opposition for misleading farmers. He said that cash transfer under DBT benefitted farmers and said that election manifesto of Congress in 2019 also promised similar reforms.Beeseetti Satyavathi says caution should be exercised before promoting homeopathyThe YSRCP lawmaker said that allopathy has cured people and is a much scientifically approved medicinal practice compared to homeopathy.Congress MP Karti Chidambaram says that President's speech should have reflected on farmers' protestsCongress MP Karti Chidambaram says that he is worried about what has not been said in the President's speech rather than what has been said. He said that the speech should have reflected on the protests by farmers. He said that the contents of the speech could have been found in any government release.JMM MP Hansdak warns against privatisationJharkhand Mukti Morcha MP Vijay Kumar Hansdak says that privatisation will affect employment generation and said that it will also affect the upliftment of people belonging to lower socioeconomic strata.BJP leader SP Singh Baghel says fear of loss in 2024 visible in 2021BJP leader SP Singh Baghel criticised Asaduddin Owaisi and said that politics of division has been denied by the citizens of the nation. He also said that the fear of electoral loss in 2024 is visible in 2021.Congress MP Rahul Gandhi might address the Parliament tomorrowCongress MP Rahul Gandhi could begin the opening remarks for his party on the debate on the Union budget tomorrow.Bittu says farmers should have consulted before framing lawsCongress MP Ranveer Singh Bittu says farmers have been suffering for the last two months and should have been consulted before framing of laws. Bittu also said that farmers are not enemies of the nation and they also want to help the country develop.Nishikant Dubey refutes Chazhikadan's comments on Stan Swamy's arrestKerala MP Thomas Chazhikadan says 83-year-old Stan Swamy has been arrested unjustly and MP Nishikant Dubey refutes these claims saying Swamy is responsible for providing arms to Maoists.Kerala's rubber producers not adequately benefitted: Kerala MPMP Thomas Chazhikadan says Kerala's rubber producers are not getting benefited adequately. He also asks the government to fix the minimum support price of rubber at ₹200.Government rattled by random tweets: Owaisi"If a random person has tweeted, why did the government get rattled" asks Asaduddin Owaisi.'Farm laws biggest black mark' says OwaisiAsaduddin Owaisi says farm laws are the biggest black mark. He also asks "Is not understanding the farm laws come under the ambit of the state govt ?"Owaisi asks PM to clarify India's position on the Galwan valley issueAIMIM MP Asaduddin Owaisi asks PM Narendra Modi to clarify India's position on the Galwan issue with China. He also reiterates that "We are all andolanjeevi.""Instead of taking measures against China, government doing it at Singhu, Tikri borders," he says.'BJP government not fit to rule, experience shows us this' says K SubbarayanCPI MP K Subbarayan asks what kind of democratic government drills nails against people (referring to preventive measures taken by Delhi police during farmers protest).CPI MP Subbarayan questions government's about various movesCPI's K Subbarayan says new Parliament building is not a national emergency. The post of Governor has been transformed by this government to further their own political agenda and the post should be lawfully removed. Tamil Nadu governor's reaction to the release of the seven people arrested for Rajiv Gandhi's murder is an example.Chairman intervenes and says such comments should not be made.Meenakshi Lekhi says enmity shouldn't go beyond certain extentMeenakshi Lekhi says "We can be enemies, but we can be friends so enmity should not go to such an extent that we are ashamed to be friends tomorrow."'When I was in NDA I felt this is a government for Jawan and Kisan, but that was not followed' says Hanuman BeniwalRashtriya Loktantrik Party's Hanuman Beniwal says "When I was in NDA I felt this is a government for Jawan and Kisan, but that was not followed.""The blood that flows through the veins of the farmers protesting in the streets flows through my veins. That's why I left NDA," he says.'Why call them Khalistanis ? Farmers sow crops, not AK-47' says Harsimrat Kaur BadalHarsimrat Kaur Badal asks 'Farmers sow crops and not AK-47. Why are they being called Khalistanis ?'Centre didn't listen to anyone regarding farm laws implementationThe central government did not listen to opposition, did not even bother to listen to their own allies regarding the implementation of the farm laws, says Harsimrat Kaur Badal.Protest basic human right, tear gas, water cannons used against protestors: Harsimrat Kaur BadalHarsimrat Kaur Badal says protest is a basic human right but tear gas, water cannons were used to break down farmers protests by the government. "No politician expressed remorse for the death of the 150 farmers, no speech expressed any regret," she added.Privatisation will affect jobs, discriminates against people, says Danish AliDanish Ali says privatisation will affect jobs, discriminate against people from SC/ST background and also says farm laws is such an attempt at the agricultural sector. 'We are here for building nation despite opposition criticism': Rita Bahuguna JoshiRita Bahuguna says Oppn can continue remaining stuck in a mentality that the govt is working against the people. "I would urge them to keep on with that kind of attitude. We are here for building the nation and we will continue despite criticism."Parliament workers struggle to reach home if session proceeds until midnight: Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury says Parliament should consider the issue that several parliment workers will not be able to go home if session goes until midnight, speakers says will consider his plea/demand.MP Dilip Saikia says everyone in Assam benefited after BJP government came to powerAssam MP Dilip Saikia says after BJP came to power, even in Muslim-dominated areas in Assam, Ujjwala schemes have been implemented. People have benefitted from Centre's schemes.Previous governments have given up when North East faced Chinese aggression, but the present government has bolstered defense, he added. 'If farmers don't want the law why implement it ?' asks Akilesh YadavAkilesh Yadav asks if the people (farmers) for whom the law was made don't want it, then why is the government not repealing it ? He also replied to PM's 'Andolanjeevi' comment saying this country attained freedom from protests.'China gave virus, India gave vaccine' says Sunita DuggalBJP MP Sunita Duggal lauded PM Narendra Modi for implementation of the Covid-19 lockdown. She also lauded MP Navneet Rana for taking precautions even before the pandemic. "China gave the virus, India gave the vaccine," she added.Government should make up for losses caused by Covid-19 pandemic: Farooq AbdullahIt is essential for the govt to make up for the losses caused due to #COVID19 & lockdown. Tourism sector, industries, shopkeepers in my state suffered, there is rampant poverty. Promises were made that 50,000 jobs would be provided - not even one job given: NC MP Farooq Abdullah pic.twitter.com/UookQ5iN9nFarooq Abdullah says the government should make up for the losses caused by Covid-19 pandemic, reports ANI. Farooq Abdullah congratulates Serum Institute of India for Covid-19 vaccineOur numbers are less than US, UK & others. Still we reported many deaths. Our medical services aren't that good that cause of deaths can be ascertained in villages. Still, vaccines have been developed for which I congratulate those in Pune (SII): NC MP Farooq Abdullah, in LS pic.twitter.com/uETw2Cp9ZzMP Farooq Abdullah congratulates the Serum Institute of India in Pune for their Covid-19 vaccine, reports ANI.'I did not sit in Rabindranath Tagore's chair' says Amit Shah Amit Shah says he did not sit in Rabindranath Tagore’s chair. He also added that he wanted to clarify in the Lok Sabha that he did not intend to hurt any sentiments.Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury draws house's attention to China's reply to VK SinghAdhir Ranjan Chowdhury demands government's comments on China's reply to V K Singh's comments. Indian minister VK Singh’s statement that India has transgressed the Line of Actual Control (LAC) more times than China is an “unwitting confession”, the Chinese foreign ministry said on Monday. Click here to read moreAmit Shah briefs Lok Sabha on rescue efforts in UttarakhandHome minister Amit Shah says Army has setup a control room in Joshimath. He has also said that in affected areas 2 columns of army and medical teams have been deployed. Sahastra Seema Bhal (SSB) team has also reached the state.Punjab Congress MPs to move private members' bill seeking repeal of farm lawsCongress MPs from Punjab to move private members' bill in Lok Sabha seeking to repeal three farm laws, reports PTI.Rajya Sabha passes bill to regularise unauthorised colonies in DelhiRajya Sabha passes bill to regularise unauthorised colonies in Delhi, reports PTI.Members of Rajya Sabha pay tributes to U'khand flash flood victimsMembers of Rajya Sabha pay tribute to victims of Uttarakhand glacier disaster pic.twitter.com/bpu8HofVr9All members of the Rajya Sabha paid tributes to the victims of the Uttarakhand flash floods. At least 31 people have lost their lives. All govt agencies are monitoring situation: Shah on U'Khand flash floodsAll concerned agencies of Centre and State are monitoring the situation: Union Home Minister on avalanche in Chamoli district of Uttarakhand, in Rajya Sabha pic.twitter.com/ylg4vHS7igUnion home minister Amit Shah said on Tuesday that all concerned agencies of the central and state government were monitoring the situation in Uttarakhand.Proud to be an Indian Muslim, says Ghulam Nabi Azad during farewell speechCongress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad during his farewell speech in Rajya Sabha said that he was among those fortunate people who never went to Pakistan. "When I read about circumstances in Pakistan, I feel proud to be a Hindustani Muslim," he added. J-K needs development, appeal to PM to pay special attention towards it: PDP leader Nazir Ahmed LawayPeoples Democratic Party leader Nazir Ahmed Laway said on Tuesday that Jammu and Kashmir needed development and further appealed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to pay special attention towards it.If Cong doesn't bring you back, then we are ready to do it: Union minister Athawale to Ghulam Nabi AzadYou should return to the House. If the Congress doesn't bring you back, then, we are ready to do it. This House needs you: Union Minister and RPI leader Ramdas Athawale during farewell to retiring Congress Rajya Sabha MP Ghulam Nabi Azad pic.twitter.com/ITNxRuLISTUnion minister and Republican Party of India (RPI) chief Ramdas Athawale said on Tuesday that the Rajya Sabha needed Ghulam Nabi Azad and added that if the Congress doesn't bring him back, 'we are ready to do it'.He is J-K's 'Gulab': Sanjay Raut bids farewell to Ghulam Nabi AzadShiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut during his farewell to Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad said that he is a Gulab (Rose) of Jammu and Kashmir. Will never forget Azad's efforts when people from Gujarat were stuck in J-K due to a terror attack: ModiWith tears in his eyes, Prime Minister Narendra Modi remembered an unfortunate incident from the past when some people from Gujarat were stuck in Jammu and Kashmir due to a terror attack. He further spoke about how Ghulam Nabi Azad offered assistance during that time. "I will never forget Shri Azad’s efforts and Shri Pranab Mukherjee’s efforts when people from Gujarat were stuck in Kashmir due to a terror attack. Ghulam Nabi Ji was constantly following up, he sounded as concerned as if those stuck were his own family member," Modi said.PM Modi praises Ghulam Nabi Azad during Rajya Sabha sessionThe person who will replace Ghulam Nabi ji (as Leader of Opposition) will have difficulty matching his work because he was not only concerned about his party but also about the country and the House: PM Modi during farewell to retiring members in Rajya Sabha pic.twitter.com/bVE3Cnddl2While bidding farewell to Leader of Opposition (LoP) Ghulam Nabi Azad- who will retire, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said the person who would replace Azad as the next LoP would face difficulties as he was not only concerned about his party but also placed emphasis towards the Upper House and the country. Rajya Sabha bids farewell to Ghulam Nabi Azad, three other retiring membersThe Rajya Sabha on Tuesday bid farewell to Leader of Opposition and Congress veteran Ghulam Nabi Azad and three other members of the house who will retire soon. Centre followed 'whole of society' approach amid Covid, says health ministerDuring the Rajya Sabha session, Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan said on Tuesday that amid the prevailing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, the Centre followed a 'whole of society' approach adding that everything related to the crisis such as provision of N-95 masks, ventilators, PPE kits etc was provided to all the states and Union territories.BJP MP gives Zero Hour notice in notice over use of Hindi, other languages in SC, other high courtsBharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Harnath Singh Yadav has given Zero Hour notice in Rajya Sabha regarding the use of Hindi and other languages in Supreme Court and High Courts.4 Oppn parties give Suspension of Business Notice in Rajya SabhaFour opposition parties- DMK, CPI, AAP and Shiv Sena have given Suspension of Business Notice in Rajya Sabha under rule 267 over 'the plight of protesting farmers in Delhi'.PM Modi likely to reply to Prez address in Lok Sabha tomorrowPrime Minister Narendra Modi is expected to reply to the motion of thanks to President Ram Nath Kovind’s address in the Lok Sabha tomorrow. The Lower House of Parliament has been adjourned till 4pm today.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-budget-session-live-updates-february-9-2021-101612833992345.html
10-02-2021||Today's||On India, a fracture in the diaspora||People of Indian origin constitute one of the largest diasporas in the world, residing in at least 200 countries. The stock of Indian migrants has almost tripled over the past three decades, from 6.6 million in 1990 to 17.9 million in 2020.The benefits of leveraging the diaspora for India’s economic and foreign policy goals have been recognised for decades, but even more so since Prime Minister (PM) Atal Behari Vajpayee initiated the first Pravasi Bharatiya Diwas in 2001. But no leader has courted his country’s diaspora as assiduously as PM Narendra Modi.Diasporas, however, have a Janus-face. The acts of migration and living abroad affect identities — ethnic, religious, and those of national origin. One of the largest Indian diasporas — and certainly the wealthiest and most influential — resides in the United States (US). Yet, we know little about how Indian-Americans view India. How do they remain connected to their ancestral homeland? And how do they regard political changes underway in India?The Indian American Attitudes Survey (IAAS), a nationally-representative survey of Indian-Americans we conducted in September 2020, found that this population is, by and large, quite connected to its homeland through family and social networks, culture, and politics. However, the nature and intensity of this connection varies substantially. Indian-Americans born outside of the US are much more likely to report a strong connection to India compared to those born in the US (see figure).Further, IAAS finds that Indian-Americans support more liberal positions in the US and more conservative ones in India on an array of contentious policy questions. This could be a case of “when in Rome do as the Romans do,” or the reality that a group’s attitudes differ according to whether it perceives itself to be part of the majority or a minority community.IAAS demonstrates that there are also inter-generational and partisan differences on political and social changes underway in India. Indian-Americans are divided on India’s trajectory. While 36% report that India is currently on the right track, 39% believe it is on the wrong track — with those born in the US less optimistic. IAAS respondents are also markedly more pessimistic than the Indian population at large. According to a July 2020 Ipsos survey, 60% of Indians reported that India was on the right track.Modi enjoys substantial support among Indian-Americans. But views on Modi suggest a modest partisan tint. Republicans give Modi and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) the highest approval, although Democrats also rate them favourably — well above the Congress and Rahul Gandhi. However, the religious divide is striking. Almost seven in 10 Hindus approve of Modi’s performance, while just one in five Muslims do. Indian-American Christians are almost evenly divided. However, Modi’s popularity among the Indian-American community is considerably weaker in the US than in India. While he enjoyed a 19% net favourability in the IAAS survey, a Morning Consult poll conducted in India concurrently with our survey put this number at 55%.It is evident that the divisions that animate Indian society also manifest within the diaspora. In particular, Hindu Indian-Americans hold very different views on domestic politics and policy in India compared to their non-Hindu counterparts, on average. Moreover, the second generation — those born in the US — are more liberal than their immigrant parents.These divisions foreshadow a more fractured, less homogeneous Indian-American community. The political polarisation infecting both India and the US appears to be seeping into the diaspora. Furthermore, polarisation among Indian-Americans has troubling implications not only for the community’s role within US politics, but also for its role as the lynchpin of India’s “soft power.”For better or worse, diaspora communities today have more mechanisms at their disposal to call attention to issues of interest in their home countries. The digital revolution and the diffuse nature of foreign policymaking in the US multiply opportunities to pressure the host country.All of this is occurring at a time when India is facing grave foreign policy challenges. In recent years, the US has ranked among India’s most significant bilateral partners. For its part, the Indian-American community has played the role of bridge-builder, best captured by its lobbying for the India-US nuclear deal.The rise of the second generation of Indian-Americans, with weaker emotional and personal connections to India, was bound to diversify the diaspora’s views. And so it is possible that sections of the community will urge US politicians to ramp up pressure on India, rather than deepen the partnership. Former US Senator Arthur Vandenburg once warned his colleagues that politics must stop “at the water’s edge”. Today, that norm appears a distant dream.India will find that the more polarisation grows at home, the more its diaspora will become polarised, and one of the country’s strongest foreign policy assets will be increasingly less so.Sumitra Badrinathan (University of Pennsylvania), Devesh Kapur (Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies), and Milan Vaishnav (Carnegie Endowment for International Peace) are the authors of a new report, How Do Indian Americans View India? Results From the 2020 Indian American Attitudes Survey.The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/on-india-a-fracture-in-the-diaspora-101612878777662.html
10-02-2021||Today's||Has China bitten off more than it can chew?||I have argued before that in advancing its territorial claims, China uses carefully calibrated tactics. Each move it makes may not be threatening enough to invite a significant military response, but several incremental actions cumulatively lead to a material change in the situation. Small nibbles lead to a giant bite.We have seen this unfold on our borders. It has been practised with success in the South China Sea (SCS). In earlier track-2 meetings, Chinese interlocutors would say that they did not claim the whole of SCS but only the various islands and waters around them. When asked about the nine-dash line, they said that it was a legacy of the Guomindang government. It will be recalled that when Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru had pointed out to Chinese premier Zhou Enlai that Chinese maps were showing large chunks of Indian territory as part of China, Zhou explained that these were old Guomindang maps that had not yet been revised. Sounds familiar?Chinese interlocutors later began to assert that SCS were “historic waters” where China had certain legacy rights, but did not explain what these were. They still maintained that China was not claiming the entire stretch of waters as sovereign territory. Once formal submission to this effect was made to the United Nations, the obfuscation could no longer stand. The process of actual occupation, dredging and militarisation then began in earnest and still continues. At each step of this creeping process of occupation, neither the Association of South East Asian Nations (Asean) nor the United States (US) felt threatened enough to take countermeasures. Reversing the changed facts on the ground will require large-scale military action, which is not realistic.The lesson to be drawn is that the counter must come swiftly and at an early stage before the map has been redrawn through such tactics. India changed its pattern of response to Chinese nibbling with the Doklam operation in 2017. There is no doubt that this came as a rude surprise to the Chinese side. The sharp and aggressive official reaction and the flood of vituperative Chinese media commentary reflected that. Here was a nibble that had invited an unexpected and out-of-character “disproportionate” response. The impasse lasted for over two months, but was eventually resolved. The Brazil-Russia-India-China-South Africa (BRICS) summit hosted by President Xi Jinping at that time was an important reason for the resolution.In contrast to Doklam, the operations in eastern Ladakh were not the usual nibbling kind, but backed by deployment of a large number of troops and weaponry. The aim would have been to substantially change the alignment of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) to China’s advantage, making any Indian effort to reverse the gain a risky and costly affair. The skirmish at Galwan with unprecedented loss of life may have been unexpected and not necessarily part of the original script. This is why the rhetoric on the Chinese side, compared to a smaller incident at Doklam, was much more muted and remains so.The plan would have been to occupy territory falling within the category of “differing perceptions” of LAC and prevent any Indian presence and patrols in these areas. Another aim would have been to neutralise any Indian advantage from improved border infrastructure such as the Darbuk-Daulat Beg Oldi (DBO) road and revived Advance Landing Grounds (ALG) at DBO, Fukche, Chushul and Demchok.What China did not expect was that India would not confine its response to managing the border dispute but would extend it to attacking Chinese commercial interests in India and aligning itself more closely with its Quad partners. The Indian side has upped the ante by taking two steps, one military and one economic — occupying the heights in south Pangong and by permanently banning 59 Chinese apps. Earlier, the signal given was that these commercial actions could be reversed if relations came back on an even keel. The onus is now on China to escalate both on the border, but importantly in other dimensions of the relations. Should China seek to push India out of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation? What about India’s membership of the Asia Infrastructure Investment Bank or the BRICS Development Bank? Should it lead in disbanding BRICS which may bring it into conflict with Russia and other members? Should it retaliate commercially, which it has not done so far?There have been multiple rounds of talks at the military-to-military level, which have not registered any progress towards disengagement of troops. External affairs minister S Jaishankar acknowledged as much in a recent statement.The fact that both sides find continuation of talks useful is positive, but it appears that the initiative is no longer on China’s side. Jaishankar has stated quite unambiguously that other aspects of India-China relations could not be insulated from the disturbance to peace and tranquillity on the border. The reaction from the Chinese foreign ministry spokesman was to urge that the border situation should be delinked from other aspects of bilateral relations, knowing full well that this is no longer possible. China has miscalculated and does not know how to extricate itself. Has it, for a change, bitten off more than it can chew?Shyam Saran is a former foreign secretary and senior fellow, Centre for Policy ResearchThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/has-china-bitten-off-more-than-it-can-chew-101612878357695.html
10-02-2021||Today's||To make the urban water mission work, fix institutional structures||The government’s 2021-22 budget announcement of the Jal Jeevan Mission-Urban (JJM-U), with an outlay of ₹2.87 lakh crore, over five years, rightly addresses the huge gap in water supply and sewage infrastructure in cities. However, it is not enough to deliver long-term water sustainability across urban India. A 2018 NITI Aayog report estimates that, one, by 2030, the urban water deficit will stand at almost half of the projected demand and, two, 21 major cities will run out of groundwater in the immediate future. Water sustainability is vital for resilient and healthy cities. With unprecedented urbanisation projected over the next 30 years, the government must expand its focus from infrastructure provision to the comprehensive management of urban water to ensure sustainable urban growth and enhanced quality of life of millions of city-dwellers.There are, however, two key barriers. One, our statutory and administrative frameworks, including the National Water Policy 2012 (NWP), do not recognise cities as a unit of planning for integrated water management even though cities continue to be the biggest consumers of water and the biggest contributors of pollution in a watershed. The current hydrology-based basin-level approach misses a critical element of urban governance that is directly linked to municipal jurisdictions, mandates, and organisational structures. Two, over time, we have compartmentalised water into distinct entities (potable water, groundwater, stormwater, ponds and lakes) — each with distinct custodians (if at all) and distinct planning and management objectives. Moreover, integrated planning and management of water (including natural water resources) do not feature as a mandate in the municipal Acts. As a result, departmental priorities, targets, and budgetary provisions for the same do not exist.JJM-U provides a unique opportunity to remedy this through strategic enabling statutory, administrative, and institutional reforms coordinated across scales — national, state, and city. A national-level mandate for Integrated Urban Water Management (IUWM) in cities is necessary. IUWM is a globally accepted approach that integrates the elements of the urban water cycle — source management, water supply, sanitation, stormwater management, sewage treatment and its reuse, solid waste management — with the city’s urban development to maximise economic, social, and environmental benefits in an equitable manner (World Bank 2012).For this, NWP, currently under review, must emphasise the need for IUWM at the city level. Although NWP recommends devolution of authority to the lower tiers of government, it does not set out how. The revised NWP must also stress the need for preparing city Water Master Plans as a key planning tool and statutory mechanism for implementation of IUWM and its integration with city planning processes.JJM-U must also incentivise the preparation of WMPs by making this a pre-condition for cities seeking financial assistance under the scheme. The right institutional mechanism is equally essential. An Integrated Urban Water Management Authority (IUWMA) should be created under the state water resources department in all million-plus cities with representation from all city agencies and stakeholders to facilitate more coordinated planning and implementation of sustainable urban water management. IUWMA should be backed by legislation and a model Act should be prepared to assist this process. In smaller cities, an integrated urban water management department should be created within municipal corporations/ municipalities.Necessary amendments to the municipal Act should be made to add IUWM to the list of existing municipal functions. To ensure efficacy, WMPs need adopting as a statutory document at the city level and integrated with the city development plans/city master plans. The JJMU must create the enabling framework for IUWM, moving a step closer to creating cities that are resilient and healthy.Mriganka Saxena is an architect and urban designer and the Founding Partner of Habitat Tectonics Architecture and Urbanism. The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/to-make-the-urban-water-mission-work-fix-institutional-structures-101612878063392.html
10-02-2021||Editorials||When Mr Biden called Mr Modi||In their first conversation after Joe Biden took over as the 46th President of the United States (US), Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi and Mr Biden reiterated their commitment to a strong India-US relationship. At a time when there is some concern in New Delhi about the Biden admin-istration’s approach to China, both the US and Indian statements on the conversation highlight the strategic convergence on a free and open Indo-Pacific. Indeed, the White House statement goes a step further in suggesting that the two leaders agreed on the principles of freedom of navigation, territorial integrity and building a strong regional architecture through Quad. This is good news for India, for it is this strategic alignment on China that has driven deeper security, intelligence and defence ties between the two countries.The two leaders also spoke about democracy being a binding factor between the two countries. While the Indian readout of the conversation mentioned that the relationship is “firmly anchored in a shared commitment to democratic values”, besides strategic interests, the US statement was more explicit — with President Biden underscoring his “desire to defend democratic institutions and norms around the world”. Once again, this is good news, for it is democracies which must stand at the forefront of battling the authoritarian model presented by China. But this also means that the quality of Indian democracy will emerge in bilateral discussions. The State Department statement on the farm protests last week and the discussion held by the India Caucus on the Hill show that India will have to more effectively underline its democratic credentials to allay apprehensions. Given that the US statement mentioned Myanmar, and India’s did not, there is also a possibility of differences on how to approach democracy promotion in the region and beyond.The two sides also agreed to collaborate more deeply on climate. Mr Biden will find that India’s position has shifted quite radically from the time he was last in office when New Delhi was viewed as a reluctant partner — India has stopped being defensive on climate and worked on its Paris commitments seriously. And finally, counter-terrorism will continue to rank high on the list of priorities, and the US must internalise that this battle will remain incomplete till it holds Pakistan accountable. What is clear is that notwithstanding possible missteps, the Delhi-DC dance will continue under the new administration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/when-mr-biden-called-mr-modi-101612877277098.html
10-02-2021||Editorials||On disasters, internalise lessons on rescue and relief||The natural disaster in Uttarakhand and the ongoing rescue operation provide an opport-unity to assess where India stands on disaster management. If one compares the current response to the Kedarnath tragedy (2013) — while keeping aside the difference in altitude and the scale of the challenge — the system has improved in terms of response time, equipment availability, professional manpower training and information flow. In 2013, it took the State several days to mount a search-and-rescue operation, losing precious time. In the Chamoli case, the response has been swift and the political leaders have been forthcoming with on-the- ground information.Yet, flaws are evident. The response remains reactive because of inadequate planning and absence of precautions. Hydropower projects are often built in ecologically fragile areas, ignoring scientific evidence. The situation becomes more challenging because there are no early warning systems; there is lack of seamless flow of information between those at the frontline (the police or communities) and the government/scientists to report and assess gaps; and there is an absence of disaster-related training for the population. For example, did the workers undergo mock drills on what to do if a disaster strikes, and how to survive in such biting cold? This is even more critical for migrant labourers who have no knowledge of the local environment and modes of survival. Rescue operations in India remain human-intensive, but technology has moved forward and, therefore, constant upgradation is required. These issues need to be addressed since, in a disaster, time is of the essence and the focus has to be on saving every life.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/on-disasters-internalise-lessons-on-rescue-and-relief-101612876921345.html
