11-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai Police nab accused wanted in 2016 murder case from Surat||Mumbai Police’s crime branch on Wednesday arrested Shahid Shaikh in connection with a 2016 murder at Govandi. Shahid, who was arrested from Surat, is accused of killing a Govandi resident in August 2016.Shivaji Nagar police had arrested three persons — Rizwan Shaikh, 21; Najmum alias Rani Ansari, 22; and Nagma Ansari, 42 — in connection with the murder. In July 2019, Rizwan was convicted for the murder and sentenced to life imprisonment, whereas the two others were acquitted for want of evidence.However, Shahid had fled from Mumbai soon after the incident and was living in Surat by changing his identity, said a police officer.Assistant inspector Valmik Kore got a tip-off and a team went to Surat and brought the accused to Mumbai. During interrogation he confessed to the crime. He was handed over to the Shivaji nagar police station for further legal process, said police inspector Nandkumar Gopale of the unit 9.Shahid was notorious in Indira Nagar area of Govandi and he allegedly used to illegally supply electricity to around 400 slums in his area. The deceased, Bakar Ali Ansari, also lived in the same area.The incident occurred as Shahid damaged the roof of Bakar’s shanty while giving illegal electric connection to one person in the area, said the police officer. Bakar had a heated argument, during which Rizwan stabbed the deceased twice with a chopper. Meanwhile, Shahid hit the victim with a brick. Bakar was rushed to a nearby hospital where he was declared dead on arrival, said Kore.The case was registered with Shivaji Nagar police under charges of murder and common intention against four accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-police-nab-accused-wanted-in-2016-murder-case-from-surat-101613067799488.html
11-02-2021||Delhi||Haryanvi singer Sapna Choudhary booked for cheating events firm of over ₹4 crore||Haryanvi singer Sapna Choudhary has been booked by the Delhi Police’s Economic Offences Wing for the alleged misappropriation of funds to the tune of over ₹4 crore, cheating and criminal conspiracy, on a complaint given by the director of a celebrity management and events management firm.In the FIR, registered on Wednesday, Choudhary and others have been accused by the complainant of taking money from him citing various emergencies at different occasions between 2018 and 2020, but not returning the amount of over ₹4 crore. Joint commissioner of police (economic offences wing) OP Mishra confirmed that Choudhary has been booked for cheating and misappropriation of funds along with other sections.“The allegations are being probed from all possible angles. So far, no arrest has been made in the case,” Mishra said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/haryanvi-singer-sapna-choudhary-booked-for-cheating-events-firm-of-over-4-crore-101613067438721.html
11-02-2021||Delhi||AAP accuses north corp mayor of illegally occupying DUSIB land, he refutes allegation||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP)’s in charge of municipal affairs Durgesh Pathak on Thursday accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and North Delhi Municipal Corporation mayor Jai Prakash of “illegally occupying” land owned by the Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB).Prakash dismissed the allegation as “baseless” and accused Pathak and AAP leaders of “misleading” people with such statements.“The BJP-ruled North Delhi Municipal Corporation mayor Jai Prakash has built his house by illegally occupying DUSIB land. Authorities repeatedly asked the MCD to stop the construction of the building but no action was taken. The AAP demands that the BJP immediately suspends Mr Jai Prakash and that he be arrested under charges of forgery,” said Pathak in a press conference at the party’s headquarters in central Delhi.Dismissing the allegations, Prakash said, “The allegations are baseless. Mr Durgesh Pathak and the AAP are misleading people. My son owns a custodian property at Gully Vikram in Sadar Bazar… He has been paying rent to DUSIB for the property and has all documents of correspondence with the officials of DUSIB. Any construction on that plot was carried out by previous custodians. For one particular construction activity on the first floor, my son had offered to pay damages to DUSIB through letters dated October 19, 2020, and January 15, 2021, and he was asked to visit the DUSIB office. If all rules have been followed, how can they call it an encroachment?”Spokesperson of Delhi BJP Praveen Shankar Kapoor said, “The AAP has not released ₹13,000 crore which the Delhi government owes to the municipal corporations. Mr Jai Prakash had exposed them (AAP) and that seems like the only reason for them to stoop to personal allegations now.”While the AAP is in charge of the Delhi government, the BJP rules all three municipal corporations in the capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/aap-accuses-north-corp-mayor-of-illegally-occupying-dusib-land-he-refutes-allegation-101613067380989.html
11-02-2021||Other||Pace and Space: shooting skills and state of play in the modern NBA||As seen through examining draft selections, lineup changes and the best players in the NBA throughout different eras of NBA basketball, the progression and evolution of the physical measurables required by NBA players is clearly obvious. However, these changes in talent selection from a physical standpoint have come about as various NBA coaches and franchises have undergone a drastic change in game tactics and strategy. For example, recently Stephen Curry became just the third player in NBA history to make 2,500 career 3-pointers, along with historical sharpshooters Ray Allen and Reggie Miller. Most notable in Curry’s accomplishment was that it took him 702 games to hit the landmark of 2,500 3-pointers, while it took Reggie Miller 1,288 games and Ray Allen 1,021 games. While each of these players is generally regarded as among the pantheon of the greatest NBA shooters, what leads to such a wide discrepancy in the number of games it took them to reach 2,500 made 3-pointers? Looking closely at the evolution of game strategy throughout the eras and it provides a clear answer.The earlier eras of the NBA emphasised an extreme pace of play, as well as shots close to the basket. In the 1970s, big men like Wilt Chamberlain and Kareem Abdul-Jabbar were dominant due to their ability to convert a high percentage of dunks and shots close to the basket. With the introduction of the 3-point line to the NBA game in 1979, a high pace was still prioritised with almost 20 teams playing more than 100 possessions per game consistently throughout the 1980s’ decade, dominated by Magic’s Lakers and Bird’s Celtics. As basketball shifted towards more deliberate isolation play with the dominating play of Michael Jordan’s and Scottie Pippen’s Chicago Bulls, the pace of the game slowed considerably. The presence of big men who could dominate in the paint with a slower tempo game, combined with the presence of defenses allowed to “hand check” meant that by the early 90s and throughout the decade, pace had slowed considerably to such a level that there were no teams playing more than 100 possessions per game by 1999. The early 2000s’ Lakers’ dynasty of Shaquille O’Neal and Kobe Bryant won championships while never exceeding 94 possessions per game, and the Detroit Pistons ended the Lakers dynasty with an average pace of 88 possessions per game. This methodical and deliberate playing style was not conducive to a lot of 3-point attempts that could be generated by players playing in the open court. In the mid-2000s, the slow pace of play throughout the NBA (90.5 possessions per game) led to an average of 16 3-point attempts per game by each team. With the increased pace of play in the current era (2019 featured 102 possessions per game), there has been a dramatic spike in the number of 3-point attempts per team to almost 32 each game. Hence, the term for the current era of basketball is “pace and space”, referring to teams that play a high pace and space their 3-point shooters all around the court. As the NBA has evolved from this methodical playing style to a more free-flowing game, there has clearly been an uptick in 3-point attempts, as well as an extreme focus on individual player’s offensive efficiency, therefore, also prioritising shots close to the basket. This evolution has led to players re-writing the record books with regards to 3-point shooting volume and makes, which has drastically altered the skills necessary to play in the NBA today.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pace-and-space-shooting-skills-and-state-of-play-in-the-modern-nba-101613067379840.html
11-02-2021||Mumbai||Porous surfaces like paper and cloth curbs spread of Covid-19 better: IIT-B study||Surfaces such as paper and cloth, which expedite evaporation of respiratory droplets, can curtail the spread of Covid-19, according to a recent study by a team of researchers from the Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B). The researchers, all from the department of mechanical engineering, found Covid-19 can survive for four days on glass and seven days on plastic as well as stainless steel. In comparison, the virus survived for only three hours on paper and two days on cloth. Their paper was published in Physics of Fluid, a peer-reviewed letter by AIP Publishing, on Tuesday. Covid-19 can be transmitted via droplets that settle on surfaces of objects, known as fomite transmission. “This study was to understand the evaporation of respiratory droplets on porous surfaces, which are responsible for the fomite transmission of the virus,” said co-author Rajneesh Bhardwaj, associate professor of mechanical engineering, IIT-B. In a previous study, the same researchers had shown that Covid-19’s survival period correlated to the drying time of a respiratory droplet on an impermeable (non-porous) surface along with a residual film left on it by the droplet. This follow-up study demonstrated how the mass loss of a respiratory droplet and the evaporation mechanism of a thin liquid film are different for porous and non-porous surfaces. “The researchers from IIT-B have worked out a good theory using simple models. While it is known that droplets evaporate faster on porous surfaces because of capillary action, this is the first time it has been put in context of spread of a virus. This lays the foundation for further systematic study using virus samples to understand the spread of viruses on different surfaces,” said Amitabh Bhattacharya, associate professor, department of applied mechanics at IIT-Delhi, who was not part of the study. Based on their findings, the researchers have made recommendations to curb the spread of the virus. “We recommend that furniture in hospitals and offices, made of impermeable material, such as glass, stainless steel, or laminated wood, be covered with porous material, such as cloth, to reduce the risk of infection upon touch,” said co-author Sanghamitro Chatterjee, a postdoctoral researcher. Another co-author, Janani Srree Murallidharan, assistant professor, IIT-B, said, “Other recommendations include covering seats in public places, such as parks, shopping malls, restaurants, and railway or airport waiting halls, with cloth.” For the study, the team used proxy droplets to visualise their evaporation on porous and impermeable surfaces, and compared these measurements with computer-based models. The researchers found that 99.9% of a droplet’s liquid content evaporated within the first few minutes on both impermeable and porous surfaces. Then, a microscopic thin residual liquid film remained on the exposed solid parts where the virus could survive. “When we tested different surfaces that are porous, we found the droplet spreads quite quickly through capillary action [fibres inside the material]. The film left on the surface of the porous material evaporates faster, therefore, harbouring the virus for lesser time,” said Amit Agrawal, institute chair professor at the department of mechanical engineering and co-author of the paper.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/porous-surfaces-like-paper-and-cloth-curbs-spread-of-covid-19-better-iit-b-study-101613067019503.html
11-02-2021||Mumbai||Over 100,000 people from Mumbai got Covid-19 vaccine shots||After vaccinating 5,707 beneficiaries on the 20th day of the vaccination drive, Mumbai crossed the milestone of 100,000 beneficiaries on Thursday. A total of 1,01,364 beneficiaries have been vaccinated in Mumbai since January 16, when the vaccination drive began. Of these, 85,034 are healthcare workers (HCWs) and 16,330 are frontline workers (FLWs). On Thursday, the turnout was 61%, but the average turnout over the past 20 days is over 70%. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) began the second phase of the Covid-19 vaccination drive on February 4, during which FLWs are being vaccinated. By February 15, the civic body will start administering the second dose of the vaccine to HCWs who were part of the first phase. Out of 9,375 beneficiaries expected in Mumbai on Thursday, 3,825 were HCWs and 5,550 were FLWs. The final turnout was 61% with 1,989 HCWs (52%) and 3,718 FLWs (67%) turning up for their shots. Of these, 11 beneficiaries reported minor adverse event following immunization (AEFI) in the form of giddiness. They were kept under observation for 30 minutes before being discharged. A total of 121 beneficiaries have reported minor AEFI so far in the drive. On Wednesday, Mumbai saw an overall turnout of 69%; on Tuesday it was 68%; and on Monday, it was 83%. The highest turnout so far was reported on February 1 (93.41%), when BMC vaccinated 7,707 of the expected 9,250 HCWs. There are currently 23 active vaccination centres in the city, operated by 125 teams. Of these, 51 teams administer vaccine shots to HCWs and 74 teams administer vaccine shots to FLWs. The number of vaccination centres in the city has almost doubled in the past 10 days. Mumbai had 12 active vaccination centres on January 30, which increased to 18 on February 4 when BMC started the second phase of the drive. The number further increased to 20 on February 5; 21 on February 6; 22 on February 9; and 23 on February 10. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner in charge of BMC’s public health department, said, “Initially, the speed of the drive was low and now it is picking up, and we will be able to complete the drive in the targeted time. BMC noticed that whenever senior doctors have not participated in the drive and taken vaccine shots, the turnout is low. Where senior doctors have also taken the vaccine, other HCWs are more confident and the turnout is high.” BMC has been facing problems with the Co-WIN app failing to contact all registered beneficiaries of their vaccination appointments. Kakani said, “As we could not communicate to everyone through the app, we are also using the ward war rooms to communicate to people that their turn to take the shots has come. To increase the turnout, we are thinking private hospitals to vaccinate their own staff, not for general public.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/over-100-000-people-from-mumbai-got-covid-19-vaccine-shots-101613066779282.html
11-02-2021||Mumbai||Nana Patole takes a dig at Maharashtra Governor BS Koshyari||Newly appointed Maharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole alleged that Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari was not giving his nod to the 12 nominations to Legislative Council because of the pressure from the top leadership of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). He said that it was possible for him as the Assembly speaker to stall the appointment of BJP leader Sudhir Mungantiwar as head of the Business Advisory Committee (BAC), but his party did not resort to vendetta politics.Patole on Thursday visited various religious places of all faiths including Chaityabhoomi, Siddhivinayak temple, a church and a masjid in Mahim, a day ahead of assuming charge as the party chief. He will take over the charge at August Kranti Maidan on Friday.While addressing a press conference on Thursday, Patole said the Governor, who is the Constitutional head of the state, should clear the proposal of the appointment of 12 members to the Council at the earliest. “He should not bow under the pressure (from Delhi) and nominate 12 members to the Upper house,” he said. “Had I acted vindictively like the Governor has been doing, appointment of BJP legislator Mungantiwar on parliamentary committee BAC would have been stalled. But we did not do so,” he said.Meanwhile, the Congress has launched social media cell to give befitting reply to BJP’s ‘vicious and divisive propaganda’. Patole said, “The BJP is a massive factory which produces lies that disturb the social fabric of the country. The Congress, through its 200,000 workers on social media sites, will give befitting reply to them.”Leader of Opposition and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis said the nomination of the MLCs was the prerogative of the Governor. “He is acting within his constitutional framework. He is the constitutional head of the state. The ruling party leaders should introspect about the language they use for Governor,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/nana-patole-takes-a-dig-at-maharashtra-governor-bs-koshyari-101613066539299.html
11-02-2021||Mumbai||Centre’s charges of rioting, sedition against journalists are not correct: Shiv Sena||The Shiv Sena on Thursday targeted the Centre over the sedition case filed against lawmaker Shashi Tharoor and journalists Rajdeep Sardesai, Mrinal Pande, Anant Nath, Zafar Agha and Vinod Jose. In an editorial in its mouthpiece Saamana, the Sena questioned why it has not taken suo moto action against “godi media”– a derogatory term for a section of the media seen to be pro-government, for spreading false news and Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami, who allegedly leaked matters of national security.On January 30, Delhi Police lodged a case against Tharoor, Sardesai, and others for alleged misreporting and spreading disharmony following the death of a protestor during the tractor rally in New Delhi on January 26. Simultaneously, cases were lodged at Gurugram in Haryana and Madhya Pradesh under serious charges including sedition.The editorial said the Supreme Court has stayed action against the journalists and Tharoor, but the sword of arrest is still hanging over their heads. It added that journalists should stand by them as they are safe now, but the government may crush them later. “These people may have faltered on one incident but because of that, slapping charges of rioting and sedition is not correct... Charges are pressed against Sardesai, Tharoor, Mrinal Pande, Jafar Agha, Paresh Nath, Vinod K Jose and Ananth Nath, but has such stringent action been taken against [the] godi media for spreading false news and misleading people?” the editorial asked.Opposition politicians last month had demanded a probe into purported WhatsApp chats between Goswami and Partho Dasgupta, former chief executive officer of TV audience measurement agency Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC). Goswami’s critics said the remarks he made in the chats show he may have had advanced knowledge of the Indian Air Force 2019 strike on a terrorist camp in Pakistan’s Balakot region.The chats form part of Mumbai Police’s 3,600-page supplementary charge sheet in a scandal over alleged manipulation of TV ratings. The over 500-page transcript of WhatsApp conversations between Goswami and Dasgupta sparked allegations of collusion and alleged access the TV news anchor had to classified information.“...corrupt TV journalists like [Arnab] Goswami [are involved] in a TRP scam... [their] acts... [led to the leaking of information related to]...national security. And they still remain free. Instead of taking suo moto action and slapping sedition charges, the Central government has kept the entire issue in cold storage,” the editorial mentioned. Goswami did not respond to HT’s messages for comment. The editorial added that Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi was once a friend of the media. “Journalists brought Modi to the top. Will Modi shed tears for an old friend?”Maharashtra Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) chief spokesperson Keshav Upadhye, meanwhile, said that the only task the Shiv Sena has is to criticise the BJP and PM Modi. “It has become their job to criticise Modi and the BJP. They should not be given such importance. Besides, they should first see how they behaved with journalists in Maharashtra. One TV journalist in Maharashtra was imprisoned based on mere suspicion. They should not teach others,” Upadhye said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/centres-charges-of-rioting-sedition-against-journalists-are-not-correct-shiv-sena-101613066179102.html
11-02-2021||Other||Man steals from Mumbai home of Adi Godrej’s kin, stays at 5-star hotels, held||Gamdevi police have on Thursday arrested a 41-year-old man for allegedly committing thefts on five occasions at the Malabar Hill bungalow of Arvind Dubash, who is the son-in-law of industrialist Adi Godrej. The police claim the accused, Chetan Thulkar, has around 22 house break-in cases filed against him in south Mumbai in the recent past. A police officer said that after committing the thefts, Thulkar went to Goa, Nagpur and Kolkata by air and enjoyed five-star hotel stay there and spent on lavish lifestyle. According to the police, on January 8, the Dubashs discovered that gold ornaments and cash, collectively worth Rs3.38 lakh, were stolen from the place of worship in their bungalow, Akashganga, located opposite Tata Garden on Breach Candy Road. They suspected the involvement of their four domestic helps. The family’s manager Pankaj Shirsagar lodged a complaint in the case and a first information report (FIR) was then filed. The police interrogated the domestic helps, but did not get any significant lead. They then discovered that the thief had entered through a window on the rear side of the bungalow. “The CCTVs covering entrance of the bungalow and the adjoining road didn’t capture any suspicious movement, but a CCTV camera installed at the coastal road construction site 150 metres away from the bungalow captured two suspects breaching the 15-feet-high boundary wall of the bungalow with the help of an adjoining tree. The two got easy access to the window from the wall itself. They then removed the iron grills covering the window and entered the house,” said senior inspector R Rajbhar of Gamdevi police. “This CCTV footage made it clear that the domestic helps were not involved in the theft and then we focused our probe on outsiders. Meanwhile, the complainant informed us that there was a small camera installed near the area in the house where the ornaments were stolen from. The camera had captured the movements of two men, but their faces were not clearly visible. However, later we identified one of the suspects as Thulkar,” Rajbhar added. Police then activated their sources and discovered that prior to the theft, Thulkar was seen in the area and after the theft he had left for Goa, where he stayed in an elite hotel for couple of days, returned to Mumbai and then travelled to his hometown in Hinghanghat at Wardha district. He then went to Nagpur where he stayed at another five-star hotel. The police team was trying to track him, but Thulkar kept changing his mobile phones. “Through our informers, we then learnt that from Nagpur, Thulkar went to visit his girlfriend in Kolkata and booked air ticket to Mumbai after two days. We verified his travelling details and a police team immediately left for Kolkata. After he arrived at the airport to board a flight to Mumbai, he was nabbed with the help of the airport security and brought to the city,” said assistant police inspector Sharad Gare. “During interrogation Thulkar revealed that he had conducted a recce of the bungalow and the positions of the CCTV cameras installed in the area before planning the theft. He had committed small thefts previously too at the bungalow in April, July, September and December last year,” said Rajbhar. The police have recovered some stolen ornaments from his friend Prakash Lovekar, 55, who met him while the duo were lodged at Arthur Road jail. Lovekar would help Thulkar sell the stolen ornaments. He too has been arrested in the case. The police have also arrested Akash Waghmare, 35, who had entered the bungalow along with Thulkar. Waghmare, who received Rs30,000 from the stolen cash, told the police that he aided Thulkar because he had an urgent requirement of money for his wife’s delivery. Thulkar, a Class eight dropout, has 22 criminal thefts and other property offences registered against him at Malabar Hill, Pydhonie, Colaba, DB Marg and Azad Maidan police stations, a police officer said, adding that he would target old bungalows and never carry a mobile phone with him to the crime scene to avoid getting tracked and detected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/man-steals-from-mumbai-home-of-adi-godrej-s-kin-stays-at-5-star-hotels-held-101613066058959.html
11-02-2021||Mumbai||2 WR coaches detach, cause delay in Mumbai local services||Train services on the Western Railway (WR) were severely impacted as two coaches of a moving outstation train got detached on Thursday morning. No passenger or railway staff was injured in the incident. The two coaches of the train operating between Bandra Terminus and Ramnagar railway station in Uttarakhand got decoupled twice. The first incident occurred at 5.27am between Jogeshwari and Ram Mandir railway stations. The coaches were coupled back only after 73 minutes and the outstation train resumed its journey at 6.40am. At 7.17am, the coaches again decoupled between Naigaon and Vasai Road railway stations.“The train was operating at a slow speed, which is why the risk was less,” said a senior Western Railway official.WR has launched an investigation into the incident. “Two coaches that were in lock condition in the rear, uncoupled near Jogeshwari railway station,” said Sumit Thakur, chief public relations officer, WR.Due to the incident, local and outstation train services coming towards the city were delayed. Train services on all the slow and fast railway corridors were operating with delays of up to 20 minutes. The delay resulted in overcrowding inside local train compartments and passengers were seen standing on the footboard of the train. Passengers took to social media to complain about overcrowding inside the compartments. “See the todays situation at Mira road. Where is controlling??? Where is social distance ? Where train got increased? From June i am traveling but not seen this much ruch under essential services.” tweeted @Gdixit44, with a video of passengers trying to board a crowded train.WR’s divisional railway manager (DRM) GVL Satyakumar had tweeted on Thursday morning, “Due to technical problem at Jogeshwari station all UP and Down suburban train services between Churchgate to Virar stations are running late by 10-15minutes. Inconvenience caused is deeply regretted.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/2-wr-coaches-detach-cause-delay-in-mumbai-local-services-101613065999078.html
11-02-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC refuses bail to UP man accused of raping daughter-in-law||A bench of Bombay high court (HC) on Monday refused to grant anticipatory bail to three members of an Uttar Pradesh family – a man and his two sons – accused of domestic violence and sexual assault of their newly-wed daughter-in-law. HC’s decision was based on the observation that as the court had already refused to quash the first information report (FIR) against the family.The court held that the complaint of the woman, the wife of one of the accused, was serious and required custodial interrogation, and hence rejected their anticipatory bail application.The woman in her complaint had stated that after her wedding in 2019 when she was residing at her matrimonial home, she was pressured for dowry. In January 2020, she was allegedly injected with some drug and raped by the father-in-law, a doctor, in the presence of her husband and brother-in-law. Though the offences had occurred in UP, the complaint was registered at Santacruz police station on June 16, 2020, when the woman returned to her parent’s home. A single bench of justice Sarang Kotwal, while hearing the anticipatory bail application of the accused, was informed by advocate Girish Kulkarni that the Santacruz police station did not have jurisdiction and there was a delay in filing the complaint. He further submitted that though the offences were serious, the custodial interrogation of the three would not yield anything, and hence they should be granted anticipatory bail. According to the complainant, after her wedding, her husband refused to have any physical contact with her and she came to know that he was undergoing treatment for impotency. After being raped by her father-in-law, the survivor was sent to her parental home later in the month and her parents were told that if their dowry demands were not met, the woman could not return to her matrimonial home. While opposing the application, the state informed the court that the three had not cooperated in the investigation as the husband had refused to undergo a medical test. Additional public prosecutor SH Yadav further informed the court that due to the serious nature of the offences, an earlier division bench had refused to quash the FIR on August 13, 2020, and hence the application should be rejected. “At this stage, it is not possible to observe that the informant’s allegations are false, just because the FIR is lodged after some delay. In such cases, delay in lodging the FIR can be explained by the victim. But that has to be considered at the time of trial. This is the stage of anticipatory bail. The gravity of the offence cannot be overlooked,” the bench observed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-refuses-bail-to-up-man-accused-of-raping-daughterinlaw-101613065759589.html
11-02-2021||Gurugram||Senior executives of MGF booked on complaint of Emaar India||Senior executives of MGF Developments Ltd, a Delhi-based developer, were booked on Monday for allegedly fraudulently siphoning off valuable land parcels of Emaar India, its erstwhile partner, the police said.The complainant, Emaar India, alleged that the managing director (MD) of MGF and erstwhile head of their joint venture, effected sale and transfer of land in Sector 61 to an associate company using dishonest means in violation of rules. A case was registered on the complaint of Emaar India against the MD and seven others under sections 409, 420, 467, 468, 471 and 120B of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at DLF Phase-1 police. station.The MD of MGF India did not reply to repeated phone calls, messages and emails sent by HT seeking a response on this matter. Calls to the company office in Delhi also went unanswered.In a complaint to the police in July 2020, Emaar India stated that the MD of MGF had effected a fraudulent sale of 3.65 acres in Sector 61 land and transfer of licence No 56 of 2008. The company alleged that the MD and his associates transferred valuable land parcels belonging to Emaar India and its subsidiaries. The complainant further alleged that the value of the land parcels was around ₹4 crore initially, which exponentially rose to ₹183 crore after a licence was granted by the Department of Town and Country Planning.The complainant further alleged that MGF Developments India and its officials also wrongly induced the DTCP to transfer the licence held by Emaar India to its associate company, on the basis of a demerger scheme, despite the land in Sector 61 and licence number 56 never being part of the scheme. It also alleged that fake letters were used to ensure this transfer and further Emaar India was not informed about the basic facts.Preetpal Sangwan, an assistant commissioner of police, Gurugram police, said that a case has been registered and the matter is being verified. “The facts of the matter and the documents are being verified by police. The matter is being investigated on the complaint of the company,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/senior-executives-of-mgf-booked-on-complaint-of-emaar-india-101613065760034.html
11-02-2021||Gurugram||Temperature likely to increase in coming days; air quality dips||Dense fog in isolated pockets prevailed in the morning hours on Thursday. As per the India Meteorological Department’s(IMD) forecast, dense fog in some areas of the state is expected on Friday and Saturday in the morning hours. There is no immediate western disturbance on the horizon and temperature is expected to increase gradually marking the onset of spring, said experts.While IMD’s automatic weather station (AWS) for Gurugram did not record both the maximum and minimum temperatures on Thursday, the one at Palam observatory in Delhi recorded the day’s minimum temperature at 11.2 degrees Celsius and maximum temperature at 23.8 degrees Celsius. As per the IMD’s weekly forecast, the maximum and minimum temperatures are expected to hover around 27 and 12 degrees Celsius, respectively, on Friday. As per the forecast, mist in the morning is expected while the day will remain cloudy. Meanwhile, Delhi on Wednesday crossed the 30 degrees Celsius mark for the first time this year, leading to a deviation of seven degrees from the normal temperature for this time. However,IMD scientists said this time in February, Delhi crossed the 30 degree-mark earliest in the last 15 years. Gurugram’s air quality dipped on Thursday with the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) bulletin recording the air quality index (AQI) at 294 — a deterioration from Wednesday’s AQI reading of 247 in the “poor” category. Experts attributed the deterioration in air quality to poor ventilation conditions due to which pollutants could not be dispersed.VK Soni, head of India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) environment monitoring and research centre, said that the AQI had dipped on account of calm winds. Slower wind speed and low ventilation conditions are unfavourable for the effective dispersal of pollutants, said Soni. The level of ultra fine particulate matter having a diameter of 2.5 microns or less (PM 2.5), the city’s primary pollutant, was 440.02 micrograms per cubic metre (µg/m³) on Wednesday, as per the CPCB’s air quality monitor at Vikas Sadan in Sector 11. At the official monitor in Sector 51, the PM 2.5 concentration stood at 414.4 µg/m3 on Wednesday. The PM 2.5 concentration at Gwal Pahari stood at 179.86 µg/m3. The safe limit of PM2.5 is 60 µg/m³. According to the early air quality warning system for Delhi-NCR, the air quality is likely to remain in the “very poor” category on Friday and Saturday. Subsequently, over the next five days, the air quality is likely to remain largely in the “very poor” category.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/temperature-likely-to-increase-in-coming-days-air-quality-dips-101613065758145.html
11-02-2021||Gurugram||Plastic use can lead to fines up to ₹25,000 from February 27||Using plastic from February 27 can invite penalties of up to ₹25,000 as the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) on Thursday issued a notification for residents, shopkeepers, retailers and vendors to stop the practice. The MCG has set a 15-day deadline for compliance of the order, following which officials will start fining violators.In its order, the MCG has banned the usage of various types of plastic, such as polythene, plastic bags, bottled water with volume less than 200 ml, any type of single-use plastic, plastic wraps used for gift wrapping or in bouquets and plastic sheets used for table cover, among other such items, under the Haryana Non-Biodegradable Garbage (Control) Act, 1988.Depending on the quantity of plastic, fines can range from ₹500 to ₹25,000. (see box)“Over the last four months, the MCG has started several projects to curb the use of plastic and polythene across the city. The latest order has been issued keeping this continuous effort in mind. We have now reached a stage where a citywide implementation is needed to eradicate plastic completely,” said Dheeraj Kumar, joint commissioner, Swachh Bharat Mission, MCG.Most garbage collected from across the city is non-biodegradable plastic waste, which increases legacy waste and is one of the primary reasons for choked drains across the city. Hence, a citywide ban is being enforced, said Kumar.“In the past four months, the MCG has generated enough awareness regarding the banning of polythene and single-use plastic so there has been ample time to make the shift. We’ll start fining violators for using them from February 27. Regarding other types of plastic, we will be carrying out area wise awareness drives to ensure people are aware that using them is a violation and after a short period of time, start issuing fines for it as well,” said Kumar.Kumar said that the MCG will be constituting several teams for carrying out awareness drives across the city and subsequently, for enforcement measures.“The problem with such policies and notification is that consumers are mainly penalised for using plastic instead of those supplying it. Until the supply is checked, the production of plastic will remain unaffected and will continue to be circulated in the market. This is not just the case in Gurugram but across various cities in the country as well, where a similar ban has been introduced. The public bodies concerned, such as the MCG, should look at adopting other strategies for more successful implementation,” said Priyavrat Bhati, sector head, Climate, Environment and Sustainability, Centre for Study of Science, Technology and Policy.Since last December, the MCG has been working towards turning four markets in the city — Vyapar Kendra in Sushant Lok-1, Sector 46 market, Sector 4 market and Sector 23 market — into areas free of polythene and single-use plastic. Each of these markets is located in a different zone of the MCG.“Until the MCG starts fining violators, the practice of using plastic and polythene will continue. The same has been the case in the Sector 46 market as well. Since the MCG has started issuing fines, both shopkeepers and visitors have largely refrained from using polythene and single-use plastic. To make this a success across the city, it is essential that the enforcement is stringent and remains a continuous effort, instead of a one-off measure,” said Vikram Yadav, president, Sector 46 market association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/plastic-use-can-lead-to-fines-up-to-rs-25-000-from-february-27-101613065698841.html
11-02-2021||Gurugram||Farmers to scale up their protests, starting February 14||Farmers protesting at various sites across the Haryana-Rajasthan border said that they would be scaling up the agitation against the three contentious farm laws through various programmes, starting with a mashaal juloos (torch march) on February 14.Farmers have been protesting against the three new farm laws, which were passed by the Centre in September last year. They fear that the new laws will leave them at the mercy of big corporations and end the minimum support price (MSP) for important crops. Sanjay Madhav, member of Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) — the umbrella body of farmer unions protesting at Delhi’s borders — and the state convener of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee in Rajasthan, said that farmers will be holding a torch march to honour Pulwama martyrs and recognise their sacrifices on February 14. On February 16, they will be dedicating a day to veteran farmer leader Choturam, while a Rail Roko (rail blockade) agitation has been planned for February 18, shared Madhav. “We have four crucial programmes lined up till February 18. Through these programmes, we seek to strengthen the movement and put pressure on the government to accept our demands. Farmers will not go back until the three laws are repealed and MSP guarantee in writing is given to us,” said Madhav. He added that farmers from different districts were continuously joining the agitation in batches. “Farmers from Shivpuri in Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh joined the agitation today. Earlier this week, farmers from northern Rajasthan also arrived here. There is a constant movement of farmers at the site which tells us that the movement is alive and will eventually succeed,” said Madhav. Naveen Sohlot, a farmer from Bawal, said that protesting farmers had planned to mark Choturam Jayanti on February 16 to recognise the contributions of the veteran farmer leader. Sanjay Madhav said, “As per the Hindu calendar, Choturam was born on the day of Basant, which is why this day is also observed as his birthday culturally.” “While the modalities of the programmes are still being discussed, the Delhi-Jaipur railway line that crosses Rewari is being considered as a site for Rail Roko agitation. It will be a four-hour programme but we are yet to decide on the location,” said Sohlot. Maulana Arshad Meel, who is spearheading the Haryana-Rajasthan Mewati Kisan Andalon (movement) protest at Sunehra-Junehra near Punhana, said that farmers were planning to hold a candle march on February 4 to honour the sacrifices of soldiers who lost their lives in the attack. “We will be holding a meeting tomorrow to decide the route of the candle march,” said Meel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/farmers-to-scale-up-their-protests-starting-february-14-101613065698172.html
11-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai corporator, others booked for abusing woman over society’s redevelopment||Borivli police have booked a local Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) corporator and other persons for allegedly threatening, abusing and molesting a 33-year-old doctor on several occasions. The doctor had asked for documents related to the redevelopment of their housing society in Borivli (West).The first information report (FIR) was registered on January 30, even though the victim filed a written complaint with the police in November 2020, after conducting a preliminary inquiry.The police have booked the complainant’s uncle Pradeep Sharma, secretary of the society, Harish Chheda, a BJP corporator, who is also the chairman of the society and other members - Nitin Mehta and Ravi Jain. All of them are booked for molestation, assault and threatening the complainant, under relevant sections of Indian Penal Code.According to police, the woman in her statement claimed that since her parents are not fit for dealing with legal issues, she had been given the authority to attend society matters.The complainant who returned from Dubai, after leaving her job, to look after her ailing parents claimed, that in 2018 she had been abused and threatened her at her uncle’s house when she asked to see the minutes of the meetings and legal documents relating to redevelopment plans of the society, Jai Shreenath Apartments, at Mandapeshwar Road.“ The men abused and tried to hit me because I asked for the documents related to the redevelopment of the building,” said the complainant.In 2019 too, the woman claimed, she had been a victim of abuse by the builder and her uncle.On March 8, 2020, the woman said that when she went to the society office to attend a meeting, she was cornered by the accused and beaten up inside the watchman’s cabin.“The society members did not even allow me to attend the meeting as I was the only one asking questions about the redevelopment,” said the woman.Vishal Thakur, deputy commissioner of police zone 11 said the police will take action against the accused under the law. “We are investigating the case at present,” he added.Chheda said that the allegations were baseless and that such an incident did not occur. “These are just tactics as the high court has ordered the family to vacate the premises,” said Chheda. Parag Mehta, however, said the claims made by the woman were false and she was fabricating a story just to stall the redevelopment. They filed a case against them after the victim was asked to vacate the premises, he said.“On March 8, I had left the meeting within 15 minutes and no assault had taken place. The meeting was called to grant the victim a NOC to sell her flat, however, she did not speak on the subject,” Mehta said, adding that, they had the consent of 59 members of the society and only this woman was refusing to give consent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-corporator-others-booked-for-abusing-woman-over-society-s-redevelopment-101613065640733.html
11-02-2021||Gurugram||Turnout for vaccination down to 54%; jail staff, health officials play the blame game||Only around 54% of the 1,200 targeted front-line workers turned up for the Covid-19 vaccination drive on Thursday. While health department officials said that a majority of staff at the Bhondsi jail refrained from taking the shot, the superintendent of Bhondsi jail blamed the health department for not carrying sufficient doses.“Due to insufficient vaccine doses carried by the vaccinators at the site the targeted staff could not be inoculated. The vaccination officers from the health department carried only 30 doses of vaccines with them despite their target of covering 200 people on Thursday,” said Harinder Singh, superintendent of Bhondsi jail. “The department on February 7 provided the list of 269 front-line staff for registration. Only those who had received messages were given the vaccine shot on Thursday, while it has been conveyed to us that majority of the staff will be covered on February 15 during the vaccination drive,” he said.However, health officials refuted the claim. Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer said, “The vaccinating team carried almost 400 doses of vaccine to the site. Enough vaccines are available with the health department to inoculate front-line workers. The staff did not turn up due to doubts regarding vaccine safety.”The overall drop in the vaccination comes two days after the district reported 103% coverage on Tuesday. The vaccination of the front-line workers in the district started on February 4, with a poor footfall of employees from civic agency staff. The overall footfall, however, remained above 80% over the two days.On Thursday, 650 of the 1,200 front-line workers — Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) staff, police and Bhondsi jail staff — took the vaccine jabs across 12 session sites. An additional site was also set up to inoculate 50 healthcare workers, but only 19 of them turned up.As per the district health department data, 338 of 500 targeted MCG employees took the vaccine shot, while 285 of the 500 targeted police personnel turned up.Dr MP Singh, district immunisation officer, said, “Over 1,250 front-line and healthcare workers were targeted, of whom 669 reached various vaccination sites to take the jab. There will be no vaccination drive on Friday. On Saturday, only MCG, police staff and rapid action force from Gujarat, who were deployed for farmers movement at the border, will be given shots at 13 vaccination sites.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/turnout-for-vaccination-down-to-54-jail-staff-health-officials-play-the-blame-game-101613065639348.html
11-02-2021||Gurugram||DTCP decides to cancel licence of Sare Homes, take over project||Moving a step closer to taking over Sare Homes residential project in Sector 92, the department of town and country planning(DTCP) on Wednesday recommended that the licence of this township should be cancelled as presently the real estate company has no directors and the assets of the company have been frozen by Haryana-Real Estate Regulatory Authority (Gurugram). The decision to cancel the licence was taken after hundreds of home buyers and residents of the project approached the DTCP and the state government to take over the project after several hundred apartments remained undelivered and several infrastructure-related deficiencies were found. Sare Homes project was launched in 2010 and the possession was offered in 2014. The project had five phases in which 3,000 apartments were sold, said the residents’ welfare association (RWA). Presently, only 1,200 apartments have been handed over to buyers while remaining are at various stages of construction. RS Bhath, district town planner (enforcement) Gurugram, who submitted a report to the director, DTCP, regarding the cancellation of licence said that the next step in this process would be to take over the project. “Notices will be issued for cancellation and the department will assess the status of infrastructure deficiencies, inventory, receivables and amount to be spent to complete the project. Most of the work is near completion and pending issues will be resolved,” he said. DTCP officials said in order to initiate takeover, a committee headed by deputy commissioner, Gurugram, will be formed to manage the affairs of the project. “The completion and management of work can be done by the department or a third party but that decision will be taken later,” said Bhath.The letter sent to director, DTCP, regarding the cancellation of licence cites that the Sare Gurugram Private Limited, the licencee of the project has no acting director at present, the assets of the company are frozen by H-RERA, Gurugram. It also said that the project suffers a number of deficiencies pertaining to electrical system, fire-fighting system and infrastructure. Pravin Malik, president, SARE Homes RWA said that the decision to take over the project should be executed at the earliest as it will benefit thousands of owners and their families. “Around 3,000 buyers will benefit by this step particularly those who are yet to get their homes. We are thankful to the state government and local MLA who helped in this matter,” said Malik. A senior executive of Sare Homes could not be contacted despite repeated phone calls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/dtcp-decides-to-cancel-licence-of-sare-homes-take-over-project-101613065638770.html
11-02-2021||Gurugram||Study identifies Mangar forests as crucial bird habitat, calls for increased research and conservation||A new study has found that the Aravalli forests in and around Faridabad’s Mangar village have become a crucial habitat for birds, recording the presence of 219 species in a 17 square kilometre area. Experts said the degree of biodiversity was comparable with that of other Aravalli forests in the National Capital Region (NCR), such as the Aravalli Biodiversity Park in Gurugram or the Asola Bhatti wildlife sanctuary in Delhi.Findings of the study, conducted by the Centre for Ecology Development and Research (CEDAR), validates the Haryana government’s 2016 decision to notify the Mangar Bani hill forest and surrounding areas as a “no construction zone” while providing a strong basis for ramping up research and conservation efforts in the area.The Mangar Bani (or sacred grove) is widely regarded as the last remaining patch of native, old-growth Aravalli vegetation in Delhi-NCR, but does not have the tag of a deemed forest, as per Supreme Court orders. As such, the region has not been centrally notified as a forest under the Indian Forest Act, despite performing the ecological functions of one. “Our report is based on the first systematic survey of the birds of Mangar. The forest and surrounding landscape have not been comprehensively studied despite being a popular birding destination for nearly a decade. Our findings are significant because they demonstrate the conservation value of Mangar forests, using birds as biological indicators. The forests in this area do not have strong legal protection and our work will hopefully encourage steps in the right direction,” said Misha Bansal, project fellow at CEDAR, who led the study.Based on a year-long field survey conducted in 2019-20, in addition to five years worth of data taken from eBird (a citizen-science initiative which maintains a repository of bird sightings globally), Bansal and other members of the CEDAR team arrived at some key findings to establish the area’s ecological significance.For instance, Mangar was found to provide a breeding habitat for summer migrants such as the Indian pitta and Indian paradise flycatcher. Both species are “tropical dry forest specialists”, meaning that they are particularly suited to native Aravalli habitats. Several other birds that are not so easily seen in Delhi were also found in the study area, which comprised not only the Mangar Bani (about 2.66 square kms) but also the surrounding forests, fields, plantations, village settlements, water bodies and old mining sites within the revenue boundaries of Mangar village. These species include the grey-bellied cuckoo, common rosefinch, crested bunting Tickell’s blue flycatcher, and Eurasian wryneck.Researchers also noted that five nationally endangered raptor species, which are red-listed as endangered by the International Union for Conservation of Nature, have been seen in Mangar -- including the king vulture and Egyptian vulture. Moreover, six bird species whose populations are believed to be in national decline (according to the recent State of Indian Birds 2020 report) were found to be “thriving” in the Mangar landscape. These include the yellow-crowned woodpecker and short-toed snake eagle, among others.“Our study thus suggests that the Mangar landscape is a crucial habitat for birds of the Northern Aravallis of Haryana. The diversity of birds indicates good quality forest and other resources available for birds,” said the report. This claim is bolstered by the abundance of 27 “tropical dry forest specialist” species of birds, which are particularly suited to the local environment.Such birds make up 12.5% of Mangar’s bird fauna, and are no longer sighted frequently in Delhi. This is partly because native scrub forest habitats are now found in only a few sites across NCR, the report explained. The authors also noted: “Most of the recorded dry forest specialists occur most abundantly in Mangar landscape in comparison with three other forest habitats in Delhi-NCR. Further, the recorded forest specialists are overall rare in Delhi-NCR area (such as Indian pitta), and one species (brown-capped pygmy woodpecker) is found only in Mangar landscape.”The higher frequency of dry forest specialists in the area, the researchers said, was perhaps the strongest bioindicator of ecological health in the region. “These birds are mainly insectivores (feed on insects), which in turn thrive only where the habitat is moist and well-vegetated. The presence of sufficient water in the bani, along with a range of microhabitats that the forest provides are creating conditions which allow for multiple specialist species to thrive,” said Ghazala Shahabuddin, senior fellow at CEDAR and one of the study’s authors. Despite the report’s positive findings, researchers said Mangar’s potential as a biodiversity hotspot remains uncertain. “Despite the report’s positive findings, researchers said tMangar’s potential as a biodiversity hotspot remains uncertain. “There are not enough legal safeguards for the Aravalli range in Haryana which also apply to the Bani. Since Mangar Bani is in the middle of a densely urbanised region, the anthropogenic stress on this ecosystem is quite immense. There needs to be a scientific management plan to guide its future conservation,” added Shahabuddin, reiterating a point made in the report. When asked what degree of conservation would be apt for Mangar’s forests, she said: “The typical approach of establishing a sanctuary under the Wildlife Protection Act would be inappropriate here, apart from creating resistance locally. Instead, we should recognise the cultural heritage of the Gujjar community, which has so far protected the forest and coexisted with wildlife. Instead, we may consider notifying the area as a Biodiversity Heritage Site, which would allow a range of ownership patterns within it, including private, village commons and forest land but prevent harmful development activities.” This view was echoed by Sunil Harsana, a researcher and Mangar resident, who also authored the study. Harsana said Mangar’s “no construction zone” tag offers only “weak protection” to the area. Unlike other mountainous ecosystems in India, such as rainforests of the Eastern Himalayas or the Western Ghats, the Aravallis of Haryana remains extremely accessible to real estate development, illegal mining, and land grab.“Our study shows that dry tropical forests can harbour rich biodiversity, but they are also among the most endangered habitats in India because of how accessible they are. Banning construction in the bani is a good first step, but we need more comprehensive reforms for the future. There is also an abundance of mammalian wildlife in the area in addition to birds. The entire ecosystem requires protection. Community support and construction bans will not be enough,” Harsana said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/study-identifies-mangar-forests-as-crucial-bird-habitat-calls-for-increased-research-and-conservation-101613065638183.html
11-02-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Processions banned on Shivaji Jayanti, gathering of 100 people allowed||Amid the risk of the Covid-19 spread, the state government issued guidelines for Shivaji Jayanti, which falls on February 19. The state has banned processions and cultural-religious programs. However, a gathering of around 100 people has been allowed on the day.The guideline issued by the home department on Thursday had restricted the gathering to 10 people, but by evening it was increased to 100 people after the opposition slammed the government. The revellers gathering at forts (built by Shivaji Maharaj) at the midnight of February 18, have been advised to keep the celebration low key. “The revellers are advised to organise cultural programs online through the cable network. Bike rallies, processions will be banned,” the guidelines stated.Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders have criticised the government for the restricting the celebration of birth anniversary of great Maratha warrior. “By imposing restrictions on Shivaji Jayanti celebration, Shiv Sena has shown it true colours of compromising politics for the power. The government which permitted provocative Elgar Parishad has imposed restrictions on Shivaji Jayanti. The liquor shops, bars are allowed to keep open till late night, the nightlife is promoted, but the celebration of the birth anniversary of Shivaji Maharaj in his own Maharashtra has been restricted under the pretext of Covid-19,” said party spokesperson Keshav Upadhye.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-processions-banned-on-shivaji-jayanti-gathering-of-100-people-allowed-101613065338936.html
11-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai New Year case: It was a pre-planned murder, claims victim’s mother||Nidhi Kukreja, the mother of 19-year-old Janhvi Kukreja who was found dead in a Khar building on January 1 following a New Year’s Eve party, has claimed that it was a pre-planned murder. Nidhi on Thursday opposed the bail application of Diya Padalkar, one of the accused in the case and a daughter of Kukreja’s neighbour. Padalkar had filed bail plea earlier this month.Jhanvi was found dead on the ground floor of a building in Khar, where she had gone to attend a New Year Eve party with her friends. The police have booked Janvi’s friends Padalkar and Shree Ambadas Jogdhankar. Nidhi in her plea to intervene in and oppose Padalkar’s bail application claimed that “the accused jointly persuaded and convinced the intervener (Nidhi) and her husband to take the victim Jhanvi to a New Year party, which was supposed to be at the house of one Yash Ahuja, with a preplanned intention to kill the elder daughter of the intervener.”Padalkar, in her bail plea, has claimed that she had no role to play in Jhanvi’s death. Explaining the sequence of events, Padalkar has claimed that, “Applicant (Padalkar) was feeling dizzy, the applicant while climbing down the staircase lost her balance and got severely hurt on the lip portion of her face and was bleeding profusely.”She further claimed that when she was hurt, she went to Ahuja’s flat to clean the bleeding. The bleeding, however, did not stop and therefore she was taken to a hospital.Padaklar’s plea claimed that “material instances and witness statements are enough to rule out the mere possibility of the applicant’s presence in the alleged offence against the said deceased that took place on the intervening night of December 31, 2020, and January 1, 2021.”The bail plea is scheduled for hearing on February 17.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-new-year-case-it-was-a-pre-planned-murder-claims-victim-s-mother-101613065158732.html
11-02-2021||Delhi||Delhi: 3 more held in connection with Republic Day violence at Burari||Three more people have been arrested in connection with the violence that erupted during the farmers' tractor parade in north Delhi's Burari on Republic day, police said on Thursday.The three men -- Gurjeet Singh (34), Guru Prakash (34) and Rajendra Singh (41) -- were arrested following a raid on Wednesday evening, they said.Earlier, the police had arrested eight men in connection with the violence in Burari.The arrest was made by the Special Investigation Team of north district in connection with the violence in Burari area on Republic day, a senior police officer said.The officer said Guru Prakash is a resident of Old Mahavir Nagar and the two others are from Bhalswa Dairy area.Mobile phones of the accused and a motorcycle used by them during the violence have also been seized, the police said.Thousands of farmers protesting the Centre's new agri laws had clashed with the police during the tractor parade on January 26.Many of the protesters, driving tractors, reached the Red Fort and entered the monument. Some protesters even hoisted religious flags on its domes and a flagstaff at the ramparts, where the national flag is unfurled on Independence Day.On Monday, the Special Cell had arrested actor-activist Deep Sidhu, a "prominent player" behind the violence at the Red Fort.Over 120 people have been arrested by the Delhi Police in connection with the violence that took place across the national capital on January 26, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-3-more-held-in-connection-with-republic-day-violence-at-burari-101613063896218.html
11-02-2021||Other||MSEDCL initiates action against 2.50L power defaulters in Pune city, PCMC||PUNE Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) has undertaken a three-week special drive in Pune district to recover power bills from defaulters. They have cautioned the defaulters to pay bills or face a power cut.The electricity company has identified 13.86 lakh defaulters in Pune district, including 2,50,202 defaulters in Pune city and Pimpri-Chinchwad areas who have not paid bills since April 2020 and have an outstanding amount of ₹682 crore. The defaulters include residential, industrial and commercial consumers.In Pune district, there are around 36 lakh consumers, including 25 lakh consumers in Pune city and Pimpri-Chinchwad area. Sachin Talewar, chief engineer, MSEDCL, Pune circle, said, “We have started taking action against defaulters and especially those consumers who haven’t paid electricity bills from April 2020.”“Despite repeated reminders, these consumers have failed to pay the bills. We had also given them the option to pay bills in 12 months instalments. However, the response was not good. So we have started disconnecting power supply,” he said.“We have given targets to employees to take action against defaulters and collect outstanding dues. If consumers pay the initial amount and divide the remaining amount in instalments, the company will not disconnect the power supply,” he said.Vivek Velankar, civic activist, said, “Due to political interference in the electricity bill issue, people were anticipating that bill amount will be waived off during the pandemic, but that was not the case. Now the outstanding amount is high and so MSEDCL has started taking action against defaulters.”MSEDCL consumers in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad (Amount outstanding from April 2020 till date)Types of defaulters==Outstanding amount Residential== 2, 02,754== Rs213.44 croreCommercial==43,205== Rs106.57 croreIndustrial==4,243== Rs24.4 croreTotal 2, 50,202== Rs344.6 crore||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/msedcl-initiates-action-against-2-50l-power-defaulters-in-pune-city-pcmc-101613063717502.html
11-02-2021||Delhi||2.5-hr travel time, minimum speed of 100kmph: All you need to know about the Delhi-Dehradun expressway||Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari said on Thursday that the transport ministry had approved the new Delhi-Dehradun expressway, which is worth ₹13,000 crore. Gadkari said that the expressway would also have 10 elevated roads and the distance between the two cities could be covered in a time period of 3-3.15 hours.In this year’s Budget, the Centre had allocated an amount of ₹1.18 lakh crore for the highways sector with Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman adding that execution of flagship highways corridors, as well as projects, would speed up. “I am... providing an enhanced outlay of ₹1,18,101 lakh crore for the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways, of which ₹1,08,230 crore is for capital, the highest ever,” Sitharaman had said during her budget speech on February 1. Apart from the Delhi-Dehradun expressway, work will also start for the Delhi-Mumbai Expressway, Bengaluru-Chennai Expressway among others.According to an official release of the transport ministry, the Delhi-Saharanpur-Dehradun Economic corridor, which is currently under construction, is expected to be operational in nearly two years from now.Here is what you need to know about the Delhi-Dehradun expressway:1. The distance between Delhi and Dehradun will be reduced from 235 kilometres to 210km and the travel time would also reduce from 6.5 hours to 2.5 hours.2. The minimum driving speed will be 100km/hour.3. This will be the first expressway in India which will have a 12km long elevated corridor for protecting wildlife.4. Wayside amenities are being placed at every 25-30km to enhance the experience of the commuters. “Closed toll mechanism would be adopted to enable pay toll only to the extent of highway used,” the release added.5. The expressway is expected to improve the economy of the region and would also boost tourism in Uttarakhand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/all-you-need-to-know-about-the-delhi-dehradun-expressway-101613062610455.html
11-02-2021||Lucknow||UP attracts investment intents worth ₹4,500 cr at Aero India Show: Minister||Uttar Pradesh Defence Industrial Corridor has attracted fresh investment intents worth ₹4,500 crore at Aero India show 2021 in Bengaluru, the state's Industrial Development Minister Satish Mahana said on Thursday.At the recently held Aero India Show, Uttar Pradesh Defence Industrial Corridor fetched 13 fresh investment intents worth ₹4,500 crore. This included intents for manufacturing of defence ammunition, combustible components and ballistic material, among others, Mahana said.The minister said the Defence Industrial Corridor has planned over 5,000 hectares of land, of which 3,796 has been identified and a total of 1,369 hectares has been acquired in Jhansi, Chitrakoot and Aligarh.The defence node land at Aligarh has already been sold out, allotted to companies and along with this we are in the process of acquiring additional land for other interested investors, Mahana said.The minister stressed that the government has been aggressively pursuing industrialisation led development to generate new employment opportunities and uplift the economic condition of its citizens.Mahana said his department has established an identity of its own during the past 4 years by carrying out reforms to bring transparency in its working.Referring to the Union Budget, he said that seven mega textile parks are being planned and the state government has pitched in for two such parks in Kanpur and Gorakhpur.As the Budget is rapidly promoting industrial infrastructure in the form of new electronics and leather parks etc, the state government is also rapidly developing such manufacturing hubs and clusters, he added.The state government attracted investment intents for ₹4.28 lakh crore at the UP investor summit held in 2018. As a result of the diligent pursuance of these investment intents, nearly investments worth ₹2 lakh crore are under active stages of implementation, which has a multiplying effect on employment creation, the minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-attracts-investment-intents-worth-rs-4-500-cr-at-aero-india-show-minister-101613063081896.html
11-02-2021||Delhi||AAP claims Delhi BJP office land given at throwaway price||The Aam Aadmi Party claimed on Thursday that the Centre had sanctioned more than 2 acres of posh land at just ₹2 crore to the Delhi BJP to build its office, a charge rejected by the saffron party as baseless.AAP leader Saurabh Bharadwaj claimed the land at the Deendayal Upadhyaya Marg was not for building any political party office, but a school."At one side, the BJP government harasses the ruling party of Delhi and try to evict them from their party office. On the other side, it provides land to the BJP at negligible prices," the legislator said at a press conference in New Delhi.Bharadwaj demanded that the Delhi BJP must disclose how could they get 10,000 square yards of land in "just ₹2 crores". "Here, no one can buy 2 yards of land with this money!" he said."On behalf of the Aam Aadmi Party, I want to ask the BJP whether it is true that this land was sanctioned to build schools or not," he said.The Delhi BJP said the AAP was describing the land as a 10,000 sq yard though it was only 809 sq metres and the amount was deposited in 2001 at the prevailing rates. It said the ruling party was showing the amount in today's time, which was a "total lie".Bharadwaj added that the Centre had asked AAP to pay crores of rupees as rent for the party office, alleging that the BJP government "had also tried to evict us from this office repeatedly"."The BJP should come clean and tell us whether they have any shame or not to own such a party office despite having such a negligible number of assembly seats in Delhi," he added.Reacting to it, BJP general secretary Kuljeet Singh Chahal said: "On the contrary, it is the AAP which has constructed its office on government land."Neither the AAP has the land allotted for this, nor deposited any amount in this regard, Chalal alleged.He said the government policy was that all political parties should be allotted land in Delhi and it had applied accordingly for land for its office in 2001.The party then moved the Delhi High Court for getting this piece of land and it was on May 12, 2010, that the land was allotted to us, Chalal said, adding the BJP really had to work very hard for this.He accused Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal of running a government like "land-grabbers" who cared neither for the Constitution nor courts."In order to do his own politics, Kejriwal does not even have respect for the national flag," he alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/aap-claims-delhi-bjp-office-land-given-at-throwaway-price-101613062928924.html
11-02-2021||Ranchi||2 CRPF jawans injured in gun-battle with Maoists in Jharkhand||Two CRPF jawans have been seriously injured in a gunfight with CPI (Maoist) cadre in Jharkhand's Bokaro district, police said on Thursday.The incident took place in Jhumra Pahad forest in Jageshwar Vihar police station area on Wednesday night, they said.Acting on a tip-off about the presence of a Maoist camp, a joint team of Jharkhand Police and CRPF launched a combing operation in the area, a police officer said.A force of around 50 Maoists opened fire on the security personnel upon spotting them, sparking off a gun- battle during which CRPF sepoys Satyendra Singh and Vishnu Singh received serious injuries, he said.The injured CRPF jawans have been admitted to a hospital in Ranchi, where their condition is stated to be stable, the officer said.The security personnel have surrounded the area and launched an operation in search of the Maoists, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/2-crpf-jawans-injured-in-gun-battle-with-maoists-in-jharkhand-101613060631103.html
11-02-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab minister seeks NCW's intervention on release of Nodeep Kaur||Punjab Social Security, Women and Child Development Minister Aruna Chaudhary, on Thursday, urged the National Women Commission (NCW) to immediate intervene for releasing Nodeep Kaur, a 23-year-old member of the Mazdoor Adhikar Sangathan from the state of Punjab, whose medical examination conducted after her arrest revealed injuries on her body and private parts.Nodeep Kaur was arrested on January 12 after she had participated in the peaceful farmer's protests at Kundli in Haryana."Manohar Lal Khattar led-BJP government in Haryana has been trying to annihilate farmers' agitation from day one. Under its threatening theatrics, and at the behest of the Union government, the Haryana government forcibly picked up Nodeep Kaur and other labourers, who were peacefully protesting," Chaudhary said in an official release."Kaur has been charged under section 307 (attempt to murder) and extortion, which is not acceptable at all," she added.Chaudhary appealed to the NCW that the Punjab government, through Punjab State Women's Commission, will lend legal assistance to Nodeep Kaur and the Haryana government should be directed to arrange a meeting of the Punjab State Women's Commission's delegation with the labour rights activist.She said, the allegations of outraging the modesty of Punjabi trade unionist Nodeep Kaur in police custody as per her family members and not even granting bail after four weeks, is a horrifying moment for the entire womanhood.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-minister-seeks-ncw-s-intervention-on-release-of-nodeep-kaur-101613060544449.html
11-02-2021||Noida||Noida Film City CM's dream project, to come up in next 3 years: Raju Srivastava||The proposed film city near Noida is a "dream project" of Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and is expected to be completed in the next three years, the state’s Film Vikas Parishad Chairman Raju Srivastava said Wednesday.Srivastava, a comedian-actor, led a state government delegation that visited the site and reviewed the progress of the project scheduled to come up along the Yamuna Expressway in western Uttar Pradesh.The delegation met with the Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority officers, including CEO Arunvir Singh, and officials of project consultant CBRE South Asia."It is a dream project of Chief Minister Adityanath. Once our chief minister decides to do something, it gets done. Our effort will be to get the project completed within the stipulated time," Srivastava told reporters."The project is expected to be completed within next three years," he added.Srivastava and accompanying officials of Film Bandhu, the Uttar Pradesh government's nodal agency for film production-related facilities, were apprised that the consultant would be shortly submitting a tentative study report of the project which will give an idea about the facilities the film city can have and the budget required for it."It has to be a world-class film city only then can we attract talented artistes from places like Mumbai and elsewhere because as such film cities are in Mumbai, Hyderabad and Chennai also," Srivastava said.YEIDA Additional CEO and Officer on Special Duty Shailendra Bhatia said the delegation was informed that CBRE would be submitting a tentative draft of the detailed project report by February 20."The draft would give an idea about the components and facilities of the project and an approximate budget required for it. The timeline for its completion would come up accordingly and may vary depending on the model, like it could be built on public-private partnership mode," Bhatia said.The film city is being planned on a 1,000-acre area along the Yamuna Expressway in YEIDA's Sector 21. An area of 1,000 acres has been earmarked for the film city project of which 220 acres would be commercial and the remaining 780 acres industrial, he said.When asked about a section of the Mumbai-based film industry being wary about the project, Srivastava said no state should be worried over the establishment of a film city in Uttar Pradesh."It is only an extension of (cinema) facilities available in the country. Nothing is being taken away from or any state," he told the reporters.He stressed that the film city will benefit local talented artistes, among others, who cannot go out of the state for work due to several conditions, including financial restraints, to showcase their art to the world instead of living in oblivion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-film-city-cm-s-dream-project-to-come-up-in-next-3-years-raju-srivastava-101613059903916.html
11-02-2021||Kolkata||Modi govt should resign if BJP fails to prove TMC siphoned off central funds: Mamata Banerjee||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday challenged the BJP to prove its allegation that her party, the Trinamool Congress, has misappropriated funds sent by the Centre to the state, or the Narendra Modi government should resign. Addressing a programme of NGOs and civil society organisations in Kolkata, the TMC supremo claimed that the language used by BJP leader Amit Shah, who is currently on a visit to the state, smacks of arrogance and does not behove a Union home minister."The BJP frequently says that TMC is corrupt, the TMC siphoned off money. It is not Modi's money. It is sent by one government to another. Then you should not collect taxes from the state and there will be no need to give it back. If you cannot prove the allegation, you will have to resign," Banerjee said."You continuously attack us with pishi-bhaipo (aunt and nephew) jibe. What about your son Mr Shah? Where did he get so much money from?" she said.She said that Shah has come to West Bengal to speak on the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) but she will not allow it to be implemented in the state. "We always welcome everyone to West Bengal. But the statements made by Amit Shah today is below the belt and speaks of power hunger. I am very clearly stating, such words from the home minister don't look good," Banerjee said, without elaborating.The TMC chief said that she will not utter a word which breaches decorum."All political parties should maintain dignity. Courtesy cannot be one-sided. It has to be both ways," she said. The chief minister accused the BJP of spreading fake news and fake videos on social media to mislead people."After looting farmers, after not allowing me to practice my religion, after doing riots, you want Bengal? I will not bow down in front of these people," she said, attacking the saffron party. The chief minister said that hooliganism is rampant in states such as UP, Rajasthan and Haryana, but she will not allow it in West Bengal. "Let Bengal live in peace. The BJP should not be allowed to come to power in the state. I appeal to all to protect the honour of Bengal," she said. The assembly election is due in the state in April-May. "I am a street fighter. I will fight to the end," Banerjee said adding that she is not afraid of the BJP."Let's have a fair play. The Left and the Congress can be in your (the BJP's) team and we will fight alone. I will only be a goalkeeper and see how many goals you can score," the TMC boss said.Banerjee claimed that the people of neighbouring Tripura are regretting voting the saffron party to power. Farmers and Adivasis are under attack in BJP-ruled states, the chief minister alleged while speaking at the programme of the NGOs."The BJP has cancelled licenses of a number of NGOs after coming to power and stopped funds only because their opinions were different from the party. I will request all NGOs, faith based groups, and self help groups to save Bengal's pride, to save Bengal's culture," she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/modi-govt-should-resign-if-bjp-fails-to-prove-tmc-siphoned-off-central-funds-mamata-banerjee-101613059511415.html
11-02-2021||Noida||Nine new coronavirus cases in Noida, tally now 25,419||Noida (UP), Feb 11 (PTI) Uttar Pradesh's Gautam Buddh Nagar recorded nine new cases of Covid-19 on Thursday that pushed the district's infection tally to 25,419, official data showed.The active cases in the district rose to 47 from 44 the previous day, according to the data released by the UP Health Department for a 24-hour period.Another four patients got discharged during the period with the overall recoveries reaching 25,281, the fifth-highest in the state.Gautam Buddh Nagar has a death toll of 91 with a mortality rate of 0.35 per cent. The recovery rate of patients reached 99.45 per cent, the statistics showed.Meanwhile, the number of active Covid-19 cases in Uttar Pradesh rose to 3,320 from 3,256 the previous day, while the overall recoveries reached 5,89,882 and the death toll stood at 8,696, the data showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/nine-new-coronavirus-cases-in-noida-tally-now-25419-101613059614731.html
11-02-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt seeks details of liquor vends in all assembly constituencies||The Delhi excise department has directed private individuals and government agencies to provide details of their liquor vends that are located in the assembly constituencies and at the Indira Gandhi International airport here.In a letter issued on Wednesday, Deputy Commissioner Sanjeev Kumar directed all the licensees of private as well as government liquor shops to submit the details by Friday.The letter said non-compliance by licensees of private vends will be viewed seriously.There are around 850 liquor shops, including those run by government agencies and private individuals, in the national capital.The move comes nearly a month after an excise committee formed by Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia had suggested minimising the presence of Delhi government in retail liquor business and increasing private participation.An official said the Delhi government runs around 60 per cent of the retail liquor shops while the rest is run by private individuals in the city.The department has called a meeting on Friday with all four government agencies --- the Delhi Tourism and Transportation Development Corporation, the Delhi State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation, the Delhi State Civil Supplies Corporation Limited and the Delhi Consumers Cooperative Wholesale Store that have been given the permission to open liquor shops in public sector.In a separate letter, the department also asked these agencies to furnish all details pertaining to their liquor vends, mentioning the names of the assembly constituency, revenue district and municipal ward.Earlier this month, the government had constituted a Group of Ministers (GoM) under the deputy chief minister to examine the current system of excise duty administration and the recommendations of the expert committee on a new excise policy.Health Minister Satyendar Jain and Law Minister Kailash Gahlot are part of the GoM that is examining all aspects of the current system of excise duty administration and going through the report of the expert committee and suggestions received from stakeholders and the public.The expert committee had also recommended the legal drinking age in the city be reduced from 25 years to 21 years in line with cities of Gurgaon, Noida, Faridabad and Ghaziabad in the National Capital Region (NCR).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-seeks-details-of-liquor-vends-in-all-assembly-constituencies-101613058795094.html
11-02-2021||Kolkata||Left-Cong activists clash with police during march over jobs; 12-hour Bengal bandh called on Friday||Left and Congress activists demanding jobs clashed with the police in central Kolkata's Esplanade area Thursday as they tried to break barricades on their way to state secretariat Nabanna, resulting in injuries to several participants and also the police. Condemning the brutal attacks on students and young men and women by the "police force of the Trinamool Congress government", Left Front Chairman Biman Bose announced a 12- hour West Bengal bandh by the Left and associate parties from 6 am on Friday in protest. "The way police unleashed atrocities on the participants in the march to Nabanna, it created a situation somewhat akin to the historic Jallianwala Bagh incident," Bose said in a statement.The Left Front chairman claimed that more than 150 students and young men and women were injured in the police action while participating in the 'Nabanna abhiyan' programme of the student and youth wings of the Left and Congress demanding jobs and better education facilities. Bose said that the bandh call has been discussed with the Left Front constituents and the Congress party, with which it has formed an electoral alliance for the coming assembly elections in West Bengal. The Left-Congress allaince has come up to make the Bengal polls a triangular fight with the TMC and the BJP. The march to Nabanna started at College Street but was stopped by the police on SN Banerjee Road in the Esplanade area. As the activists tried to head further by breaking the heavy metal barricades, police used water cannons. Amid slogans against the Mamata Banerjee government, the Left-wing youths and students tried to climb up the barricades, following which police began a baton-charge and also fired tear-gas shells. Some police officials were also reported to be injured in the clashes. CPI(M) politburo member Mohammad Salim alleged that the Mamata Banerjee government is totally dependent on the police force to suppress protests and demands by the people. "Why is she afraid of receiving a memorandum from jobless youths," he asked in a press conference at the CPI(M) headquarters here after the incident. Condemning the attacks on the agitators, Congress Rajya Sabha MP Pradip Bhattacharya said that the Trinamool Congress government has lost the people's faith and violent suppression of protests is an indication of that.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/leftcong-activists-clash-with-police-during-march-over-jobs-12-hour-bengal-bandh-called-on-friday-101613058495042.html
11-02-2021||Other||BJP seeks probe into woman’s death by suicide after links to minister emerge on social media||PUNE Four days after a 23-year-old woman is suspected to have died by suicide, multiple Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders sought an investigation into the case.The BJP leaders demanded an inquiry after unverified information, including pictures about the woman’s association with a minister from the Maharashtra cabinet minister, started doing the rounds on social media.The issue was raised by former chief minister of Maharashtra Devendra Fadnavis, during a media interaction in the city on Thursday.“Right now there is nothing on record that has warranted registration of a case (of culpable homicide). Whatever is being spread on social media is not something that we can comment on. The enquiry in the ADR is on,” said Namrata Patil, deputy commissioner of police, zone 5 of Pune police.The 23-year-old girl was a graduate in Arts and was in the city to attend spoken English classes. She lived with her brother and his friend in a rented place.On Monday night, the girl allegedly died by suicide while one of her flat-mates was asleep, and the other had gone out, according to the police.In a letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, BJP legislator from Mumbai Atul Bhatkhalkar demanded a probe.“Social media is ripe with posts about love relations between the young girl and this minister. This is quite serious and a detailed investigation in this incident is required. A case of culpable homicide should be registered in this case and a Special investigation team (SIT) should be formed,” said Bhatkalkar in the letter that he posted on Twitter.“The news of tis girl (name withheld), who is from my voter base, is shocking. A detailed investigation should be done,” tweeted Pankaja Munde, national secretary of the BJP.The police had registered an accidental death report in the case at Wanowrie police station. The veracity of the alleged audio recording of a call between the girl and the said minister is yet to be ascertained.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bjp-seeks-probe-into-woman-s-death-by-suicide-after-links-to-minister-emerge-on-social-media-101613056036191.html
11-02-2021||Chandigarh||Players upset over Haryana’s new policy for outstanding sportspersons||For a long time, India’s 800m runner Manjit Singh Chahal has been harbouring thoughts about securing a job with the Haryana government. After he won gold in the 800m event in the Asian Games at Jakarta in 2018, Chahal has been trying his luck. However, his hopes of joining either the Haryana Police Service (HPS) or the Haryana Civil Service (HCS) came crashing as the Haryana cabinet has decided against appointing outstanding sportspersons as HCS and HPS officers.“It is unfortunate that the Haryana government has come up with this new policy. I had applied for a job with the Haryana government in 2018 but am yet to hear from them. It would have been ideal to be placed in either HCS or HPS cadre for the state. It seems they have not recognised my feat of winning gold in Jakarta,” said a disappointed 31-year-old Chahal, who is training at the National Institute of Sports (NIS) in Patiala.In 2018, the state government had decided that medal winners in Olympics, world championships and Asian Games from Haryana will be eligible for appointment as HCS and HPS officers. As per the new rules, outstanding sportspersons will now be appointed only on the posts of deputy director (Group A), senior coach (Group B), coach (Group B) or junior coach (Group C). These posts would be offered on the basis of their performance in international or national events.“States like Rajasthan are offering top-notch jobs to their athletes including police services and other administrative jobs. Even I got offers from Rajasthan but did not move. But I’m sure younger athletes won’t compromise and leave Haryana for other states in search of better jobs. This new policy is going to diminish Haryana’s image as a sports-promoting state,” added Chahal.Echoing Chahal’s thoughts, para-athlete Amit Saroha, who won a silver medal in men’s club throw F51 competition in the World Para Athletics Championships of 2017, questioned the Haryana government’s stand on sports promotion.He said, “They keep introducing new policies and never implement them. If they had introduced the policy to offer HCS and HPS jobs to medal winners of repute in 2018, why was there no appointment till now? Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu had copied Haryana’s sports model and are excelling. And now the Haryana government is stepping down. They should value the athletes and offer them esteemed posts. There will be no choice left for athletes than to move court. Also, there should be equality when it comes to para-athletes.”Internationally-acclaimed wrestlers Bajrang Punia and Vinesh Phogat, boxers Amit Panghal and Manoj Kumar, track stars Neeraj Chopra, Manjit Chahal and Seema Antil-Punia and para athletes Amit Saroha and Ekta Byan, all winners at Asian Games or Commonwealth Games, have applied for jobs with the state government but have not been given any posts so far.SS Phulia, director of Haryana’s sports and youth affairs department, defends the Haryana government’s new policy and thinks it will make the system better.“The policy is aimed at promoting sports in state. Outstanding sportspersons, who win medals at international level can apply for posts in Group A and work for the state government. Since 2018, no sportsperson has been inducted in HCS or HPS. Group A posts offer good salaries and can encourage sportspersons to do well,” Phulia said.“There is not much difference in the pay package of HCS/HPS and a Group-A salaried person,” added Phulia.“HCS and HPS involve administrative work. Sometimes, we have seen a sportsperson don’t have adequate educational qualification and thus aren’t fit for an administrative job. It becomes difficult for the less qualified people to perform their duties with perfection. The new policy has been made to make the work culture and society better. Also, soon 50 posts will be open for outstanding sportspersons in Group A category. If we observe that there is more need of creating more jobs for Group A so that more sportspersons can benefit, we will increase the number of posts in the cadre,” shared Phulia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/players-upset-over-haryana-s-new-policy-for-outstanding-sportspersons-101613055076732.html
11-02-2021||Chandigarh||Why Haryana dumped 2018 rules about giving govt jobs to outstanding sportspersons||Eligible sportspersons lacking minimum qualification and out of turn employment of sportspersons leading to surge in litigation were among the hosts of administrative issues that nudged the Haryana government to bury the 2018 rules under which the sportspersons were also appointed as Haryana Civil Service (HCS) and Haryana Police Service (HPS) officers.On Wednesday, when the Haryana cabinet met, one of the key policy decisions it took was to replace the Haryana Outstanding Sportspersons (Recruitment and Conditions of Service) Rules, 2018, with the Haryana Outstanding Sportspersons (Group A, B & C) Service Rules, 2021.Now, the outstanding sportspersons will be appointed under the new service rules in a separate cadre for promotion of sports. The new rules apply brakes on accommodating outstanding sportspersons in the elite HCS and HPS mandated under the abolished 2018 rules.In the cabinet agenda, the sports department admitted that it was facing difficulties in providing government employment to eligible sportspersons as some of them lacked requisite qualification.Another issue that prompted the state government to put in place the new rules was the Punjab and Haryana high court making some observations regarding the 2018 rules in two different cases of 2018 and 2019 in cases of sportspersons appointments.Yet another compelling reason to replace the 2018 rules was sportspersons of certain stream exploiting the loophole in the existing rules, a government functionary involved in framing the new rules said asking not to be identified.“The case of IAS officer Jagdeep Singh’s son, Vishwajeet Singh, who is an international shooter and was appointed as an HCS officer, also played a key role in forcing the government to replace the old rules,” officials familiar with the development said.After appointing Singh as an HCS officer in December 2019 under the sports category, the state government didn’t issue an appointment letter till September 2020, forcing him to move the HC. Now, the HC has directed the state government to issue appointment letter within four weeks.Top government officials said that under the new policy medal winners in Olympics and Asian Games will be offered Group-A posts.DIFFICULTIES IN PROVIDING GOVT JOBSAs per the cabinet agenda, the sports department was facing some difficulties in providing government jobs, especially posts of Group-A and B to the eligible outstanding sportspersons having qualification below matriculation standard. Some other departments “did not have the posts for outstanding sportspersons.”In this backdrop and keeping in view the problems the departments were facing in implementing the 2018 rules and the observations made by the HC, a departmental committee was set up as per the August 10, 2020 orders of Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar.Officials said that inter-departmental consultations were held to draft the Haryana Outstanding Sportspersons (Group A, B, and C) Service Rules, 2021.While CM approved the new rules on January 28, 2021, finance department gave nod on February 5, followed by general administration department on February 8. The matter was submitted for concurrence of chief secretary, and Haryana Staff Selection Commission.The new rules were also placed before the Haryana Public Service Commission (HPSC) also that gave approval to the new policy on February 9, a day before the cabinet approved the policy.PROVISIONAL APPOINTMENTThe outstanding sportspersons will be given provisional appointments in case they do not possess the requisite qualifications for the post at the time of initial appointment. They will be granted two extra years in addition to the prescribed period required for the attainment of requisite qualification.The outstanding sportspersons will be eligible to apply for the post within 10 years of their sports achievement or up to the age of 43, whichever is earlier.Under the new service rules, a separate cadre will be created to promote sports in the state for which 50 posts of Group A (deputy director), 100 posts of Group B (senior coach), 150 posts of Group B (coach) and 250 posts of Group C (junior coach) have been sanctioned. The upper age limit has also been reduced from 50 years to 42 years.Some new tournaments have been included in new rules such as South Asian Games, National Games, Ranji Trophy, Circle Kabaddi, etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/why-haryana-dumped-2018-rules-about-giving-govt-jobs-to-outstanding-sportspersons-101613055016166.html
11-02-2021||Other||Why Fadnavis now a key BJP cog in Pune’s power wheel||PUNE The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Devendra Fadnavis is now concentrating on Pune city, as there are rumours that some BJP corporators from the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) are in contact with the Congress and the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP).Last week, Fadnavis took a two-day residential camp of elected members from the PMC in Mumbai in at the Rambhau Mhalgi academy.Before that, he visited the PMC to launch the Bhama Askhed water project.With Fadnavis regularly keep tabs on Pune city, sources from the BJP, on condition of anonymity, said, “Fadnavis is ensuring that in the upcoming municipal elections, BJP does not lose power in Pune city.”Recently, BJP state unit president Chandrakant Patil and MP Girish Bapat also took a review meeting of the various development projects in the PMC. Fadnavis has now ensured that the Pune BJP unit would be under his leadership.Both Bapat and Patil were not present for the meeting on Thursday.Patil was in the city, but did not attend the meeting. All of the BJP’s MLAs were present for the meeting at the PMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/why-fadnavis-now-a-key-bjp-cog-in-pune-s-power-wheel-101613054716052.html
11-02-2021||Lucknow||All set for a V-Day date!||After tough pandemic phase, now when cases are falling and things are improving, there is no stopping the expression of love this Valentine’s Day in Lucknow. Special candle light dining, dedicated live music evening, personalised dinner, dine-cum-stay at hotel and gift hampers — people are going all out to make their day special. Lucknowite Shrishti Agarwal is getting married to Devanshu on 16th and she has a special plan this V-Day which falls ahead of her D-Day. “It’s my first Valentines so how we can miss this opportunity. A personalised date-cum-dinner on poolside has been planned. I am looking forward to it as it’s a big day for me,” she said. For those looking for a long drive and dine has a plenty of options. “It’s a Sunday, so we have come up with a special V-Day brunch which is a sold out, a candle-light dinner and dine-stay packages. Complimentary drinks, surprise gifts and a gold pendant to be won we have lots in store,” said Amitesh Singh of Hotel Ramada Lucknow. To make the evening unique, Hotel Taj Mahal is organising buffet dinner, live band presentation, ghazal performance and ‘dine under the stars’ with four-course meal and pipe music to choose from. Hyatt Regency has come up with Valentine Gala dinner buffet at its restaurant, spa packages to rejuvenate and stay offers. Lounges and discs have music and dining options lined-up to offer something for the couple. “Customised chef special menu, special dessert, butler, wine bottle, live messages on ticker dome and dedicated live songs. Couple will get complimentary Bellini, a champagne based cocktail,” said Gaurav Singh of Boombox. The Flying Saucer has organised a live music performance followed by a DJ night at its club-lounge. “We have organised a Candle Light Dinner with drinks, starters and food packages. A tasteful date is all people want while some want to party and dance. We will provide a cocktail of both to make the day memorable,” inform Zulfiqar Hussain from Grill & Chill. As people are all out to make their day special and ready to dine and party out the service providers are also going all out the provide them best of the services. “It has been a tough phase. So, now when things are better why not celebrate but with full safety measures,” said chef Mohsin Qureshi of Lebua Sacara Estate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/all-set-for-a-v-day-date-101613053096555.html
11-02-2021||Other||Fadnavis lays responsibility for ensuring fibre optical ducts laid on mayor, civic chief||PUNE Former state chiefminister Devendra Fadnavis expressed his unhappiness over the lack of fibre optical ducts being laid as part of the 24x7 water project.In Pune on Thursday the BJP leader instructed Mayor Murlidhar Mohol and municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar to ensure the ducts are now laid out.The Pune Municipal Corporation is carrying out a mega 24x7 water project, under which almost 1,800km of roads will be dug up for laying of new water pipelines.Fadnavis, on Thursday, took a review meeting in PMC of various civic projects.“Though it was decided to do the optical fibre duct work along with the 24x7 project, the PMC is not carrying out this work. Despite having a tender component, why is the PMC not doing it?” was a question asked to Fadnavis.Fadnavis replied, “I too have the same opinion that both optical fibre ducts and water pipeline laying work should be done together. The commissioner was of a view to do that work separately and divide the work into two components. Commissioner was of the view that if the ducts got dug along with the water pipeline laying works, almost all roads would get damaged, but I was instructed to do both works together and not divide it.”Fadnavis then asked Mayor Murlidhar Mohol and the commissioner to sit together and carry out the work together.Mayor commits to get on the jobMayor Murlidhar Mohol said, “I have been aggressive since the beginning, that both, the water pipeline laying work and the optical fibre cable laying should be carried out together. Now Devendra Fadnavis has also instructed the commissioner to carry out both the works together. Administration had given the reason to Fadnavis that road widths are too narrow, but this is not true. I will ensure both works are carried out together.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fadnavis-lays-responsibility-for-ensuring-fibre-optical-ducts-laid-on-mayor-civic-chief-101613052795897.html
11-02-2021||Other||Fadnavis takes Metro route to push BJP development agenda||PUNE Former chief minister of Maharashtra, Devendra Fadnavis, on Thursday, instructed his BJP party, in power in the city, to submit the second phase of the Metro project to the state government for approval.Fadnavis said, “If the state government approves the second phase of the metro project, I will ensure that like the Nagpur metro, the Central government makes budgetary provisions for Pune metro in the next union budget.”Fadnavis visited the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and took a review of the various development projects.Fadnavis said, “By the end of the year, 22km of metro will become operational and commercial rides will start. The balance 10km will be completed in 2022.”Recently, Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman approved funds for the second phase of the Nagpur metro and the neo-metro in Nashik.Meanwhile, Fadnavis also batted for the completion of the high-capacity mass transit route (HCMTR) in Pune. He instructed the Pune municipal commissioner to speed up this project and execute the neo-metro.Speaking to the media, Fadnavis said, “600 metric tonnes of garbage processing plants will become operational in the next three months.”Fadnavis backs PPP business model for PMDevendra Fadnavis backed the PPP (public-private) business model in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC). Recently, PMC decided to develop roads on the PPP basis. Fadnavis appreciated this and said, Iit is good the PMC is coming up with credit notes for road development.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fadnavis-takes-metro-route-to-push-bjp-development-agenda-101613052135604.html
11-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Fire at underground Metro-3 station; no injuries reported||A fire was reported at Mumbai’s Metro-3 underground Seepz station on Thursday afternoon. However, no injuries were reported in the incident. According to the Mumbai Metro Rail Corporation (MMRC), 12 power cables were damaged in the fire. The incident was reported at around 1.40pm and was brought under control immediately.An MMRC spokesperson said, “No person was hurt in the incident. Power was restored in the area through an alternate source. The traffic on the decking has also been restored.” Metro-3 is a 33.5 km underground corridor connecting Colaba-Seepz being constructed by MMRC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-fire-at-underground-metro-3-station-no-injuries-reported-101613043555422.html
11-02-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan Assembly proceedings adjourned twice amid uproar by BJP members||The Opposition BJP on Thursday created an uproar in the Rajasthan Assembly over the issue of attack on an RSS worker in Kota, leading to adjournment of house proceedings twice.During the zero hour, BJP MLAs Vasudev Devnani and Madan Dilawar raised the matter but Speaker C P Joshi did not allow them, following which Deputy Leader of Opposition, Rajendra Rathore, and others stormed to the well protesting against the incident.As they defied the Speaker's ruling, the speaker took up the listed business in which the Registration (Rajasthan Amendment) bill, 2020, which was introduced on March 13, 2020, was withdrawn.The speaker said that he had allowed Leader of Opposition Gulabchand Kataria to speak on law and order situation and that opportunity could have been used to raise this particular matter.Referring to the uproar by Rajendra Rathore and BJP MLAs, he said, "It is unfortunate that there is competition among you to prove who is more loyal."The BJP members also waived a purported photo of one of the accused with Parliamentary Affairs Minister Shanti Dhariwal and demanded a reply from the government.A worker of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) was shot at by three assailants in Kota on Tuesday night. The accused have been held by the police.The Speaker said that if allegations have to be made, there are rules under which it can be done but the uproar cannot be allowed.The BJP MLAs sat on a dharna in the well of the House, following which the Speaker adjourned the House for half an hour.The BJP MLAs continued the dharna inside the House. The chairperson announced another adjournment till 1.30 pm as soon as the house reassembled.When the house reassembled, the Speaker said that the leader of the house (chief minister) will be apprised of the matter and asked the members to call off the dharna.Leader of Opposition Gulabchand Kataria said that the Opposition did not want to disrupt the house proceeding and requested the Speaker to fix a time of reply by the chief minister over the issue.Kataria then asked the BJP MLAs, who were sitting in the well of the house, to return to their seats, following which the dharna was called off and the listed business was taken up.Congress MLA Mahendrajeet Singh Malviya moved the motion of thanks to the governor's address in the house and debate on the motion was started.As per the report of the business advisory committee, the debate will take place on Thursday, Friday, Saturday and Monday and the state government will give the reply on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-assembly-proceedings-adjourned-twice-amid-uproar-by-bjp-members-101613042721445.html
11-02-2021||Mumbai||Mobile labs for Covid testing to soon be available in Maharashtra: CM Thackeray||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Thursday said mobile laboratories for Covid-19 testing will soon be made available across the state.Speaking at the launch of three laboratory vans for Covid-19 testing, Thackeray said these mobile laboratories can carry out 3,000 tests per day and reports would be available in 24 hours.Tests will be conducted at the mobile labs for ₹499, said Mumbai municipal commissioner I S Chahal who was present on the occasion.The mobile labs by Spice Heath, which are accredited by the National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories (NABL) and Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), have been set up at Bandra Kurla Complex, National Sports Club of India in Worli and NESCO in Goregaon.Until last year, Covid-19 testing was done only in two laboratories in Mumbai and Pune, but now there are more than 500 laboratories, the chief minister said.Mobile laboratories for Covid-19 testing will soon be made available across the state, he said.In the wake of the new strain of coronavirus found in different countries, the state government will continue to prioritise tracing and treatment of infected patients, Thackeray said."Even though the number of Covid-19 cases has declined, tracing of patients and their contacts is important. Companies like Spice Health have come forward as part of their social responsibility to provide testing facilities," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mobile-labs-for-covid-testing-to-soon-be-available-in-maharashtra-cm-thackeray-101613042515274.html
11-02-2021||Chandigarh||320 homestays in HP’s Spiti open doors for tourists from Feb 17||Almost a year since the nationwide lockdown to contain the spread of Covid-19, the Himachal Pradesh government has decided to open the 320 homestays for tourists in the tribal Spiti region. The state government issued orders on Wednesday that the 250 homestays in Spiti and 70 in the valley headquarters at Kaza will be open for tourists from February 17. However, hotels in the region will open in the second week of April once the valley tides over its water scarcity due to sub-zero temperatures. “We decided to open up the homestays as we found that tourists visiting the tribal region, particularly those from outside the state, are facing inconvenience. All homestay owners will have to follow the Covid-19 standard operating procedure (SOP),” said Kaza-based additional district magistrate Gian Sagar Negi. “The sub-zero temperatures and intermittent heavy snow spells have disrupted the water supply in hotels so they will open in April,” he said. The tourists will need to undergo the Covid-19 test 72 hours before entering the Spiti valley and will need to follow the SOPs. Snow leopard habitat at Kibber out of bounds “The snow leopard habitat at Kibber will be prohibited for tourists,” said Lara Tsering, the general secretary of Spiti Tourism Society. There were four deaths due to Covid-19 in Kibber after which villagers decided to close their village to tourists, he said. Tourists visit Kibber mainly for sighting the elusive snow leopard. No new Covid-19 case has been reported from Spiti valley in a fortnight. The local administration recently organised a winter festival in Spiti, which was a big draw. “Most tourists stayed at government rest houses but it has limited accommodation. We felt bad when we saw tourists sleeping inside their vehicles,” said Pema Tandup, who owns a homestay in Kaza.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/320-homestays-in-hp-s-spiti-open-doors-for-tourists-from-feb-17-101613042595277.html
11-02-2021||Dehradun||Visit Uttarakhand without fear: State govt to tourists after Chamoli disaster||The Uttarakhand government has appealed to tourists to visit the state without fear days after the flash floods hit the state’s Chamoli district on Sunday.“The impact of the Chamoli disaster has been mainly from Raini village to Vishnu Prayag and there has been no impact anywhere else in the region. ...danger has been averted and everything is normal,” said state tourism minister Satpal Maharaj. He added there is absolutely no need to fear.Maharaj thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah for the urgency with which the Centre extended help for rescue work. He added that saved many lives. Also Read | Uttarakhand flash flood: Rescue ops, halted after rise in Rishiganga river level, resumeMaharaj said the disaster will not impact the Char Dham Yatra to Hindu pilgrimage sites in May.Ravinath Raman, the chief executive officer of Char Dham Devasthanam Management Board, said they have started working on important construction works in Kedarnath and Badrinath for the pilgrimage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/visit-uttarakhand-without-fear-state-govt-to-tourists-after-chamoli-disaster-101613042415242.html
11-02-2021||Other||Tiger mauls woman to death in Uttarakhand’s Nainital||A tiger is suspected to have killed a 45-year-old woman in Uttarakhand’s Nainital district when she had gone to collect fodder on Thursday, a forest officer said.Rajkumar, the ranger of Bijrani forest range under the Corbett Tiger Reserve (CTR), said the woman was killed around 800m inside the jungle. “We have informed our higher authorities and a cage will be installed in the area to catch the big cat.”Also Read | Tamil Nadu set to create state’s 5th tiger reserveResidents said Kamla Devi had gone to the forest along with other women when a tiger pounced on her and dragged her away. They added the other women rushed to their village and sought help. Devi succumbed to her injuries at a hospital. Her body has been sent for post-mortem.This is the fourth case of human-animal conflict in the state since November. A leopard on January 20 killed a 50-year-old woman in Almora. This came days after another leopard killed a 65-year-old man in Chamoli on December 1. In November, a leopard killed a 21-year-old woman in Champawat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tiger-mauls-woman-to-death-in-uttarakhand-s-nainital-101613042055386.html
11-02-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: Ancient Shiv lingam stolen from temple in Almora||A Shiv lingam has been stolen and the structure housing it vandalised in Almora district. The idol was situated in an ancient Bhairav temple on the premises of the historical Maha Mritunjay temple in Dwarahat area of Almora district. Police have lodged an FIR on the complaint of local officials and taken a suspect into custody, said an official. Also Read | Uttarakhand flash flood: Rescue ops, halted after rise in Rishiganga river level, resumePankaj Bhatt, senior superintendent of police, Almora, said, “A Shiv lingam has been and stolen by some miscreants. We scanned CCTV camera footage and took a person into custody; we are interrogating him.” Bhatt said, “We have got important clues from the person we detained. Also, we have strengthened the monitoring of other ancient and historical monuments and temples in the area so that such incidents don’t happen in the future.” Jagat Singh Rautela, a social activist of Dwarahat, said, “Our area is very peaceful and full of ancient heritage. This kind of incident has happened for the first time. Police must solve the case as well as take stern action against such miscreants.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-ancient-shiv-lingam-stolen-from-temple-in-almora-101613041215038.html
11-02-2021||Chandigarh||Vigilance Bureau falsely implicated PCS officer for corruption: Probe report||The Vigilance Bureau (VB) had falsely implicated a Punjab Civil Services (PCS) officer, Tarsem Chand, posted as secretary in the Regional Transport Authority in Faridkot district, in a corruption case in connivance with two private transporters in June last year. According to the findings of the probe conducted by VB deputy inspector general Surjit Singh, Chand was implicated in connivance with Muktsar-based private transporter Gursahib Singh Brar and complainant Baaj Singh, another transporter from Muktsar. The findings are a part of the probe carried out after Chand filed a representation for a fair inquiry in August. Officer’s driver is main accused On 23 June, 2020, Chand along with his driver and Punjab Police head constable Amarjit Singh were arrested by the Mohali VB team, led by deputy superintendent of police Harwinderpal Singh, for accepting ₹15,000 from Baaj to run his tourist buses bearing Rajasthan registration numbers in Punjab and also to ensure that they are not challaned. In July, the PCS Officers’ Association condemned Chand’s arrest and demanded that the case be cancelled. The probe report, accessed by Hindustan Times, grants a clean chit to Chand and recommends that he be discharged from the case. It says driver Amarjit Singh is the main accused and there is no “meaningful evidence” against Chand, who has been implicated due to a personal rivalry of the complainant, the transporters and aides. Recordings helped nail the lie The report says that Baaj approached Amarjit on June 16 and offered a monthly bribe to him, saying he had paid another RTA office employee, Suresh Kumar, too. Amarjit agreed to help. Baaj recorded their conversation and approached Mohali vigilance DSP Harwinderpal Singh. Baaj claimed that Chand was demanding the money for himself through Amarjit. “It’s clear from the recording of the conversation between Amarjit and Baaj that Chand never asked the transporter to meet his driver had no pending work of the complainant. Without taking the recording on the case file, the earlier investigating officer registered a corruption case against the RTA merely based on the complainant’s apprehension. Chand never directly or indirectly sought money,” the report says. “During the VB trap, Baaj kept asking Amarjit to get him to meet Chand. The VB team didn’t recover the money for 90 minutes (which should have been done immediately) after taking Amarjit into custody. Instead, the VB team took Amarjit to Chand’s office after being asked by Baaj,” the report says. After Baaj met Chand in his office and gave the list of his buses to the RTA, saying whatever you asked for as service (sewa) has been given to Amarjit, the VB team recovered the amount from Amarjit. Private transporter hatched conspiracy The report says Gursahib Singh, the owner of Darvesh transport, Muktsar, along with his brother, Rajinder Singh, frequently visited the RTA office in Faridkot and knew employees there. Gursahib is known to both Baaj and Karandeep Singh, a reader of the Mohali VB DSP. The three were in touch when the trap for Chand was laid. It is learnt that when Chand was posted as the Faridkot RTA, a case to register a VIP number, PBQ-0001, came to his office. Gursahib was interested in the number and was upset with the RTA for not acceding to his request for the number. “Gursahib was miffed when Chand transferred some old employees of the RTA office, resulting in his losing his grip on the office and thus began his rivalry with Chand. Gursahib hatched the conspiracy with Baaj and VB officials,” the report says. Call details showed Karandeep, Gursahib and Baaj were in touch with each other on the day the trap was laid. Gursahib and Karandeep exchanged 21 calls between 8am and 11.30pm on June 23.  ₹2 lakh placed in RTA’s car by driver On the recovery of ₹2 lakh from Tarsem’s car, the report says CCTV footage shows Amarjit keeping a packet in the RTA’s car at the Faridkot deputy commissioner’s office. The amount belongs to an RTA office clerk, Sukhwinder Singh, who alleged that Chand demanded the money. Sukhwinder withdrew the ₹2 lakh from a bank 13 days before the trap but handed over the amount to Amarjit only on the day the trap was laid. “An official witness in the case stated on August 5 that the bribe was recovered from Amarjit and it was the driver himself who handed over the car keys to VB officials after which they recovered ₹2 lakh. The information about ₹2 lakh to the complainant and Gursahib led to suspicion that the additional amount in the RTA’s car without his knowledge was to create additional evidence against him”, the report adds. VB officials mum on report Deputy inspector general Surjit Singh was not available for comment, while DSP Harwinderpal Singh said the matter is still being probed and the Mohali court is yet to give its verdict. Vigilance head constable Karandeep Singh feigned ignorance, too. Gursahib denied the allegations and claimed the VB had caught Chand and now wants to give him the clean chit so it’s blaming the transporters. Baaj said he stood by his complaint and alleged that the VB was under pressure from Chand. He said that he has filed an RTI application for the inquiry report and will approach the Punjab and Haryana high court against the VB for giving a clean chit to Chand. CASE FILE June 16, 2020: Complainant Baaj Singh strikes monthly bribe deal with Faridkot RTA Tarsem Chand’s driver Amarjit Singh June 22: Baaj files complaint with Mohali vigilance bureau against Tarsem and Amarjit June 23: Vigilance bureau lays trap, arrests Tarsem and Amarjit for accepting ₹15,000 July 3: PCS association condemns Tarsem’s arrest and takes up matter with Punjab chief secretary Vini Mahajan August 18: Tarsem files representation with vigilance. DIG Surjit Singh assigned inquiry January 2021: Vigilance probe finds Tarsem innocent. SIMILAR CASES In 2011, the vigilance bureau falsely implicated excise and taxation officer Ranjit Singh, who later committed suicide. In 2010, a Moga drug inspector in health department, Balram Luthra, was falsely implicated in a corruption case. Strap: Transporters conspired with vigilance staff and laid trap last year: Probe report||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/vigilance-bureau-falsely-implicated-pcs-officer-for-corruption-probe-report-101613035754514.html
11-02-2021||Chandigarh||50 nursing college students test positive for Covid-19 in Himachal||Fifty students of a private nursing college in Palampur town of Kangra district have tested positive for Covid-19 over the past three days, prompting the authorities to close the institution as per the protocol. Kangra chief medical officer Dr Gurdarshan Gupta gave a clean chit to the authorities of Netaji Subhash College of Nursing, saying there was no lapse on their part though students may have been negligent in following the Covid safety guidelines. “The spread is limited to the campus as the students stay in the hostel and did not leave the institution,” Dr Gupta said. A student staying in the hostel reported mild symptoms and tested positive about a week ago. Girls on the same floor underwent the coronavirus test and 18 of them were found positive on Sunday. Later, all 268 students in the institution were tested and 31 more were found to have caught the infection, said Dr Gupta. The students are quarantined in the hostel. State sees rise in cases in February Himachal Pradesh has seen a 10% increase in positive cases in February. The state recorded 360 positive cases in the first week of February as compared to 326 cases in the last week of January. A total of 180 cases have been added to the tally in three days of the second week. The rise in cases has been seen since January 30 when 50 schoolteachers tested positive in Mandi district. At present, nearly 150 teachers have tested positive for coronavirus in the state. So far, 58,076 Covid-19 cases have been reported in the state since the outbreak last March, while the number of recoveries has reached 56,600. Shimla is the worst-hit district with 10,422 cases, followed by Mandi with 10,214, and Kangra with 8,294 cases. Solan has 6,746 cases, Kullu 4,429, Sirmaur 3,458, Hamirpur 3,043, Chamba 2,966, Bilaspur 2,931, Una 2,945, Kinnaur 1,370, and Lahaul-Spiti has 1,258 cases. The state has conducted 9.87 lakh Covid-19 tests so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/50-nursing-college-students-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-himachal-101613035094757.html
11-02-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Governor Koshyari denied state plane to fly to Uttarakhand||In a fresh chapter in the bitter tussle between governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari and the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government, the latter refused to permit Koshyari to use the state aircraft to travel to Mussoorie for a function on Thursday. According to sources, Koshyari could not fly in a state-owned aircraft as Raj Bhavan’s official request was pending with the chief minister office (CMO) for approval. Consequently, the governor took a commercial flight to Dehradun, Uttarakhand, on Thursday morning.Insiders at Raj Bhavan as well as in the government confirmed the development. However, there was no immediate official response from Raj Bhavan and CMO.The chief minister office (CMO) is supposed to clear all the requests related to use of the government aircraft. The request from Raj Bhavan was pending for approval till Wednesday night. The governor’s office was also informed about the status of the request, the officials said.Also Read | Maharashtra cabinet approves medical college-cum-hospital at NashikChief secretary Sanjay Kumar said he didn’t have any information about the request. “I don’t know anything about this. CMO and the state aviation department deal with these issues,” Kumar said.“As per the established procedure the file was sent to the chief minister’s office for approval,” said Valsa Nair Singh, principal secretary, state aviation department.“The governor is expected to attend the 122th IAS induction programme at Lal Shastri National Academy of Administration, Mussoorie, on Friday and he was supposed to fly in a government aircraft today [Thursday] morning to Dehradun and had planned to reach Mussoorie by road. An official request for the aircraft was sent to the state government. When the governor reached Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport at 10am, he was informed that the aircraft doesn’t have the permission for take off,” said an official, requesting anonymity.The governor then decided to take a commercial flight and left to Dehradun as per his planned schedule, he added. “We had received a request from Raj Bhavan on Tuesday. It was sent to the CMO immediately for approval. Till Wednesday night, the file was pending with the CMO and Raj Bhavan was informed about its status,” said a senior official, wishing not to be named.As per the procedure, CMO approves these requests and inform the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCI) which gives further clearances, the officials said.Former chief minister and leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis slammed the MVA government over the incident. “We have never seen such an egoistic government. [Chief minister] Uddhav Thackeray should not consider government machinery as his personal property. It is state property,” Fadnavis said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-governor-koshyari-denied-state-plane-to-fly-to-uttarakhand-101613033294782.html
11-02-2021||Other||Taste of life: The art of baking... Viva la Italia in amche Pune||“It is the Italians who in the Indies have taught the English to live with refinement, to eat less crudely than they once did. Do not be surprised if the English tell you that without the Italians in the Indies, you would only have canned rice and preserved meat, and preserved meat and canned rice at the table”, wrote the Italian explorer and journalist Arnaldo Cipolla in his travelogue “In the flame of India”.Italian confectioners and chefs had earned high praise in British India where they were well known among European settlers and the Indian elite.They belonged to a migrant minority of traders and entrepreneurs, who sought to take advantage of a new world of commercial and economic opportunities opening up in India after the birth of the Raj.By the end of the nineteenth century, Italian food was introduced in Calcutta, Bombay and Poona, thanks to Federico Peliti and Felice Cornaglia, restaurateurs and professional caterers.Several guidebooks in the nineteenth and the 20th centuries advised Europeans travelling to India to have at least one meal at Peliti’s (in Calcutta and Simla) and F Cornaglia (in Bombay and Poona) because ‘their elegant but comfortable furnished rooms, sheltered from the heat of an Indian sun and cooled by the use of electric fans, present the most fascinating opportunities for the young and the old alike to enjoy those periods of relaxation which the occasion offers; while at the same time they are served, in the best European style, with delicacies of the most delectable manner, manufactured by the princes in the art of confectionary.” F Cornaglia in Poona boasted of a spacious tea-room and a shop. A billiards room was added later. It was a favourite resort for afternoon tea for many Europeans. The restaurant was a 5000 sqft hall with chandeliers and furniture imported from Europe. It had French, English and Italian dishes on its menu. Till the early 1920s, F Cornaglia and Merwanjee Cursetjee on East Street were the only establishments in Poona to have permit for consumption of wine on their premises.A very large business at F Cornaglia was carried on in the manufacture of wedding and Italian, French and English cakes (English plum, madeira, currant, almond), sweets of endless varieties (French and Neapolitan tarts decorated with fruits, meringues, torta barozzi, sfogliatelle, macaroon, seadas, cannoli, almond chocolates, nougats, pralines, crystallised fruits, fondants, pezzi duri, truffles), ice creams, ice wafers, ice puddings and pastries of all kinds. Some exotic desserts used and exhibited for sale in the restaurant were made in Carignano in a factory set up by Peliti and imported specially for connoisseurs. Cornaglia also sold Russian caviar, prime cuts of ham, salami, pastrami, cheeses (gorgonzola, parmesan, gruyere), French and Italian wines and liqueurs and cigars from Havana. Every year, native newspapers in Bombay would be flooded with advertisements featuring Christmas cakes and desserts from Cornaglia’s confectionary. In 1895, plain Christmas cakes were priced at Re. 1 per piece. Chocolate iced cakes were charged 4 annas more. All the cakes bore the stamp – F. CORNAGLIA. Catering was undertaken for wedding parties, entertainment and picnics. F Cornaglia were caterers by Royal Appointment to HE The Governor of Bombay, in addition to holding similar warrants from almost all the Viceroys of India since the time of Lord Ripon; they were official restaurateurs to several clubs in Bombay and Poona; and they entered into contracts for the supply of all refreshments to Indian chiefs on special occasions, and for tiger – shooting parties.Around 1920, F Cornaglia in Poona was taken over by a new European management. It shut down sometime around the 1940s. By 1935, the branch at Medows Street in Bombay (presently Nagindas Master Road) had shut down. The one on Esplanade Road (presently Mahatma Gandhi road) stayed in business till early 1970s with Indian owners. Cornaglia’s bakery with the same name still exists in South Bombay, but the present owners have never heard of him.Peliti died in 1914 in Italy and his restaurants shut down due to fire and events centred on the Second World War. Only the original marble plaque outside the main entrance of the Governor’s House, where Peliti’s was located in Calcutta, reminds one of its glorious past. And then there’s Villa Carignano which Peliti built in Mashobra. Peliti’s Vermut, a vermouth manufactured in Turin, Italy, is based faithfully on the liqueur Peliti produced for an official visit by the Prince of Wales, Edward VII, in 1877, using a blend of Indian spices, Piedmontese flowers, absinthe and Muscat wine, and has recently been revived by his family in Italy. Italians never considered India as a final destination; they used to go back home at the age of retirement, or even earlier, handing over their businesses to younger members of the family or relatives–in–law. Did Cornaglia go back to Carignano? I wish I knew.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/taste-of-life-the-art-of-baking-viva-la-italia-in-amche-pune-101613033053645.html
11-02-2021||Delhi||Here’s a list of Delhi borders closed due to farmers’ stir||Several borders of the national capital remained closed on Thursday as farmers' agitation against the Centre’s agricultural laws continues at state boundaries leading to traffic disruptions.The Delhi Traffic Police issued a traffic alert to inform commuters about the borders that have been shut due to the protests that have been going on for over two and a half months now.Here’s list of borders that have been closed restricting traffic in the city1. Singhu2. Piau Maniyari3. Harevli4. Mungeshpur5. Tikri6. Dhansa7. Jharoda8. GhazipurFor commuters, going to Delhi from Ghaziabad through Ghazipur roundabout, NH-24 road is open. So, motorists entering Delhi from Anand Vihar, Surya Nagar or Apsara border may take a right turn from the Ghazipur roundabout and take NH-24 road from there to move towards south and central Delhi via Sarai Kale Khan and the Ring Road. Also, Chilla border between Noida and Delhi remains open on both sides.Farmers have been camping at Delhi borders for more than 70 days now to demand a complete rollback of three agricultural legislation enacted by the government in September last year. The government, however, has ruled out the repeal of laws and has offered to make amendments. Eleven rounds of talks between the two sides have so far remained inconclusive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/heres-a-list-of-delhi-borders-closed-due-to-farmers-stir-101613032548825.html
11-02-2021||Chandigarh||Suspected smuggler shot at by BSF near Attari border||A suspected smuggler was injured when Border Security Force (BSF) personnel opened fire near the Attari-Wagah border on Thursday morning. A BSF official requesting anonymity said that Mandeep Singh, a resident of Dhanoe Khurd village in Ajnala sub division of Amritsar district, was hospitalised with a bullet injury on the shoulder after the incident at 8.30am. BSF sources said Mandeep was accompanied by an accomplice who managed to escape, taking advantage of the zero visibility due to the fog. Mandeep is suspected to be roaming near the border to clear a drug or weapons consignment. They said the movement of suspects was also noticed across the barbed wire fence and before the zero line at the border. The suspects from across the fence also managed to flee due to the fog. Mandeep is being questioned and efforts are on to ascertain the identity of his accomplice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/suspected-smuggler-shot-at-by-bsf-near-attari-border-101613027353929.html
11-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Byculla zoo likely to reopen by February 15||Over 11 months after it was shut due to the Covid-19 lockdown, Mumbai’s Veermata Jijabai Bhosale Udyan, also known as Byculla zoo, is likely to open its doors for the general public from February 15 under the state government’s Mission Begin Again, zoo officials said.According to zoo authorities, a proposal to reopen Byculla zoo from February 15, 2021 has been submitted to municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal for approval. Post the approval , the zoo will be reopened.However, owing to the outbreak of bird flu, the enclosure of over 200 exotic birds will be kept shut and other enclosures like those of tigers, penguins and leopards will remain open for the general public as usual.Also Read | Mumbai: All trains between Churchgate and Virar delayed by 15 mins todayIn the past few months, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has allowed reopening of shops, malls, multiplexes, and theatres in the past as it seeks to boost commercial activities as part of the state government’s Mission Begin Again programme.A Byculla zoo official said, “The proposal is expected to be discussed and a decision is likely by Friday. The zoo will be reopened while following Covid-19 norms with proper social distancing and sanitiser at several spots.”The zoo official added, “We will ensure that we regulate the crowd inside the zoo, and if there are too many people, entry into the zoo will be halted for a while.”The operational timings of the zoo will remain the same—between 9.30am and 6pm. The Byculla zoo received around 6,000 visitors during each weekday and over 8,000 visitors daily during weekends before the lockdown in March 2020.But for now, the decision to reopen will be taken only after Chahal takes a final call on the proposal from zoo authorities. The BMC had shut Byculla zoo on March 15, 2020 around two days after deciding to shut restaurants, bars and gyms on March 13, 2020.Meanwhile, a public address (PA) system will also be in place for announcements to avoid overcrowding. Notices and posters will also be put up at various locations within the zoo premises to make visitors aware about the viral outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-byculla-zoo-likely-to-reopen-by-february-15-101613020813275.html
11-02-2021||Jaipur||Students, teacher infected with Covid-19 after reopening of schools in Rajasthan||With the opening of the government and private schools in Rajasthan, some students and a teacher have been found infected with Covid-19, following them being quarantined and random sampling ordered in schools, said, officials.The Covid-19 cases in schools have been found in Pratapgarh and Jhalawar districts. The government and private schools for classes 9 to 12 reopened from January 18 this year, followed by the reopening of schools for classes 6 to 8.While at least one girl student, each in Jhalawar, Jhalrapatan, and Bhawanimandi government girls school have tested positive; a boy student of a private school in Bhawanimandi and a teacher of a Jhalawar school have tested positive in Jhalawar district in the last couple of days, said officials.Following the detection of infection in school, random sampling of students is being done in Jhalawar district.A girl student was found Covid-19 infected in Dausa’s Lalsot last week, after which the student was quarantined and the classroom, she attended, was shut."All the students who have tested positive are studying in class 9 to 12 and all have been quarantined, while the affected schools have been sanitized," said district education officer, Jhalawar, Surendra Singh Gour.Watch: Why Congress MLA drove tractor to Rajasthan Assembly amid farm stirEarlier, another student was found infected with Covid-19 in a government school in Chiklad in Pratapgarh district, after which, the student was quarantined and the school was closed for two days, said Yugal Bihari Dadhich, chief district education officer, Pratapgarh.The director of secondary school education in Rajasthan, Saurabh Swami said that all the chief district education officers (CDEO) have been instructed to follow all SOPs for Covid-19 containment, including quarantining the infected students, closing the school for a week, and sanitization of the affected school.Meanwhile, an American soldier, who is part of the contingent for the joint Indo-US military exercise in Bikaner, has also tested positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/students-teacher-infected-with-covid-19-after-reopening-of-schools-in-rajasthan-101613019732554.html
11-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: All trains between Churchgate and Virar delayed by 15 mins today||Local train services on the Western Railways are operating with a 15-minute delay on Thursday.Train services are delayed due to a technical problem at the Jogeshwari railway station. All slow and fast local train services are impacted due to the technical issue.“Due to technical problem at Jogeshwari station all UP and Down suburban train services between Churchgate to Virar stations are running late by 10-15 minutes. Inconvenience caused is deeply regretted.” tweeted GVL Satyakumar, divisional railway manager of the Western Railways.Also Read | Maharashtra sees 3,451 Covid-19 cases, tally now 2,052,253Passengers took to social media website Twitter to register complaints of no announcement of train delays with the Western Railways.“@drmbct @WesternRly @PiyushGoyal @PiyushGoyalOffc at Virar station there is no proper announcement why trains are late, almost late by half n hour, pls make announcement, so public can know,” tweeted @HetalPa48479629 According to Western Railways officials, the technical issue was in an outstation train that resulted in the delay in operation of local train services.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-all-trains-between-churchgate-and-virar-delayed-by-15-mins-today-101613019674273.html
11-02-2021||Other||Woman, friend found dead in Bihar’s Nalanda; husband suspect||A 28-year-old married woman and her friend were found dead in Bihar’s Nalanda district on Wednesday, said police superintendent Hariprasath S. He added prima-facie the woman’s husband, who works in Chennai, is suspected of having murdered the two. “Eyewitnesses from the spot told police that....[the husband] suddenly arrived and caught the two [together]... He lost his cool and attacked them with a sharp-edge weapon and fled.” He added the woman’s in-laws and two children too left the murder scene.Also Read | Bihar juvenile board tells minor to plant 20 trees in school as punishmentHariprasath S said they haverecovered the sharp-edge weapon. He added forensic experts were called and the postmortem report of the two was awaited.Police cited preliminary probe and said the woman and her friend were neighbours. They continued their relationship after the woman got married.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/woman-friend-found-dead-in-bihar-s-nalanda-husband-suspect-101613017572825.html
11-02-2021||Patna||Artificial intelligence to detect air-pollution sources in Bihar||The Bihar State Pollution Control Board (BSPCB) is all set to use artificial intelligence (AI) and remote sensing technology to detect key sources of air pollution in the state through satellite images and real-time monitoring.For this, BSPCB chairman Ashok Ghosh and India-based representative of the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) Shoko Noda virtually signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) on Tuesday.After inking the agreement, the pollution control board will soon be able to use the Geo AI platform developed by the Accelerator Lab of the UNDP and the University of Nottingham.Elaborating on the function of artificial intelligence, Ghosh said, “It is a first-of-its-kind application used by the state government to tackle environmental concerns effectively. The remote sensing technology will enable us to track down such brick kilns which have not been converted to the zigzag setting design along with the identification of areas where stubble burning is taking place and heavy vehicular emission across the state.”“Of the total 6,000 brick kilns, 70% have adopted the cleaner technology while the rest are still using the banned traditional method. Most of the brick kilns are situated in remote areas making it difficult to inspect manually,” said Ghosh.The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) had issued a directive in June 2017, mandating brick kilns across India to convert to the less polluting zigzag setting design.Also Read: Bihar’s best medical college fights absenteeism amid bid to turn it world classAccording to the BSPCB, brick kilns are one of the major contributors to air pollution. As per available data, 14% of air pollution in the state is caused by brick kilns while 22% is caused by domestic burning. Transportation causes 19% pollution, dust 15%, industry 14%, waste burning 11% and diesel generator sets 5%.Ghosh also shared that besides the existing 11 air-monitoring stations, the board is in the process to install additional 24 apparatus to monitor and analyse air and noise pollution in the state.“About 40% of deaths worldwide were due to air, water, and soil pollutions. We have geared up to check on environmental pollution in all possible ways,” he stressed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/artificial-intelligence-to-detect-air-pollution-sources-in-bihar-101613016321397.html
11-02-2021||Patna||Bihar’s best medical college fights absenteeism amid bid to turn it world class||The Patna Medical College Hospital (PMCH) administration is firm on checking absenteeism of doctors, a big challenge in realisation of chief minister Nitish Kumar’s ambition of turning the hospital into a world class facility, said authorities. On Monday, Kumar laid the foundation stone for renovation of Bihar’s oldest medical college from a 1,754-bed unit into a 5462-bed facility.The project, at an estimated cost of ₹5,540 crore, will likely catapult the PMCH into the country’s largest hospital and the second largest in the world, next only to a Taiwanese health facility in terms of in-patient beds after it’s completion in seven years. Kumar has appealed to L&T, the firm executing the project, to complete it in five years instead.With the state government’s push for improved health infrastructure, in sync with the 137% increase in the Centre's health budget, absenteeism of government doctors in state-run medical colleges and hospitals remains the biggest challenge for the authorities.“I am aware of the work culture of our doctors. Ever since I joined (as superintendent), I have been able to check absenteeism of doctors to a large extent. Almost 90% of doctors have fallen in line. Just 10% remaining doctors now have to mend their ways,” said Dr IS Thakur, who took charge as the superintendent of the PMCH on February 1.There is no ban on government doctors’ private practice in Bihar. As such, some doctors allegedly abstain from duty to attend to their private clinics or work as consultants in private healthcare facilities in return for handsome remuneration, said an official.The coronavirus pandemic has thrown a spanner in the state government’s effort to check absenteeism and prevent doctors from bunking duty since the biometric system of attendance, put in place by the Medical Council of India (MCI), has been suspended.The system of scanning iris for attendance has yet not become operational though cameras have been installed at some departments of the PMCH a couple of months back.While the health department is struggling to put in place the iris-scan biometric system at the oldest and most reputed medical college in Bihar, AIIMS-Patna has been using it for the last six months.Efforts to reach PMCH principal Dr Vidyapati Chaudhary didn’t succeed as he did not respond to phone calls or text messages.“Before taking any administrative action, I have, for now, requested all our doctors to be punctual and take their duty seriously. I personally make rounds of outdoor patient departments (OPD), wards and the emergency department. This has significantly reduced absenteeism and instances of doctors abstaining from duty,” said Dr Thakur.Also Read: Bihar budget: Builders seek lower registration rate, amnesty for illegal flats“The OPD registration begins at 8am. Junior doctors are supposed to be at their workplace by 8.30am and I expect senior doctors to join them at the OPD by 9am. All doctors on OPD duty have to stay back till whatever time it takes to attend to patients registered till 1.30pm,” he added.Dr Thakur, however, admitted that he was yet to ensure evening rounds of in-patient wards by senior doctors.“There is a government order, which says that senior doctors have to take evening rounds of wards. At present, this is being done by postgraduate medicos. I have requested senior doctors to do it. Give me some time to ensure that,” said the superintendent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihars-best-medical-college-fights-absenteeism-amid-bid-to-turn-it-world-class-101613014433407.html
11-02-2021||Lucknow||Now, 2 policemen attacked by villagers in Uttar Pradesh’s Pratapgarh||Two police constables were assaulted by a group of villagers allegedly after they were stopped for routine checking during patrolling in Madafarpur village under Kohdaur police station of Pratapgarh district on Wednesday.The injured policemen were admitted to a hospital and raids were being carried out to arrest the assailants, police said.The attack happened after two policemen, including a sub inspector, were taken hostage and beaten badly by alleged liquor mafia operatives when they visited a Kasganj village with a warrant of arrest against the accused on Tuesday. The constable died in the attack and the sub inspector was badly injured. Later, the police killed one of the accused in an encounter on Wednesday.In the Pratapgarh case, the villagers claimed that the constables were involved in harassing some women and that triggered the incident. Their claims couldn’t be verified.Constables Rahul Kumar and Ravi Singh were on routine patrol at Madafarpur village when they stopped three youths riding on a bike for questioning, according to the police.However, the trio turned violent and assaulted the two policemen before fleeing towards the village, the police said.Also Read: ‘Taken hostage, service pistol looted’: Chilling details of attack on UP copsThe two cops chased the trio and entered the village where they were surrounded by villagers who accused the policemen of harassing women.Later, personnel from Kohdaur and Kandhai police stations rushed to the spot and rescued the two policemen after pacifying villagers. The injured constables were admitted to a hospital.Station house officer (SHO) Kohdaur Achhelal Prasad said primary investigations suggest that the two policemen were attacked when they stopped three persons on a bike. Raids were being carried out to arrest those involved, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/now-2-policemen-attacked-by-villagers-in-uttar-pradesh-s-pratapgarh-101613012498118.html
11-02-2021||Delhi||Farmers’ protest: As key Delhi borders remain shut, traffic jams expected||Ghazipur, Tikri and Singhu borders remained closed on Thursday morning as farmers continued their agitation demanding the withdrawal of the three controversial farm laws. Motorists will have to face heavy traffic jams in parts of the Capital due to diversion of vehicles on some routes.. Delhi traffic police officers said motorists in Delhi and Ghaziabad have been facing heavy traffic jams during peak hours as the Ghazipur-Ghaziabad (UP Gate) border has remained completely closed due to the ongoing agitation. All the six lanes of Delhi-Meerut, NH-9 and NH-24 are closed because of the UP Gate border blockade and vehicles entering Delhi from Ghaziabad are being diverted to alternative border routes such as Anand Vihar, Surya Nagar, Apsara, Bhopra, Loni, Kondli, Chilla, New Ashok Nagar, DND, and Kalindi Kunj, they said.Also Read | PM says govt ready for talks, farmers announce rail roko agitation: Key pointsHowever, they said, the NH-24 road is open for traffic going to Delhi from Ghaziabad through Ghazipur roundabout. So, motorists entering Delhi from Anand Vihar, Surya Nagar or Apsara border may take a right turn from the Ghazipur roundabout and take NH-24 road from there to move towards south and central Delhi via Sarai Kale Khan and the Ring Road.“Also, the commuters can take Vikas Marg after taking a right turn from below the Patparganj Industrial Area flyover from Anand Vihar-Ghazipur road. No traffic is being allowed on the Delhi-Meerut expressway while NH-9 is open only during morning and evening peak hours when the traffic is heavy,” a traffic police officer said.Apart from the UP Gate border, Singhu, Tikri, Saboli and Piau Maniyari borders are also closed. Traffic police officials said that Jharoda and Auchandi borders are opened only during morning and evening peak hours while Lampur, Safiabad, Singhu school and Palla toll tax borders are open for traffic.As traffic is expected to remain heavy on GT Karnal Road, Outer Ring Road and NH-44, the traffic police have asked motorists to avoid these routes and take the alternative or diverted routes.Chilla border between Noida and Delhi remains open on both sides.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/farmers-protest-as-key-delhi-borders-remain-shut-traffic-jams-expected-101613012532804.html
11-02-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Increase in pollution, temperature predicted in the next few days||The pollution levels in the national capital remained in the "poor" category on Thursday, with the hourly average air quality index (AQI) at 7am recording 293.Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) recordings show that the overall AQI of Delhi was 291, in the "poor" zone, which was an improvement from Tuesday’s 305, categorised as "very poor" on the AQI scale.Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar), forecast said the AQI is likely to marginally deteriorate again in the coming days.Also Read | The chill is gone: Mercury in Delhi crosses 30°C mark“Surface winds are low, which is likely to reduce ventilation coefficient slightly and hence AQI is likely to marginally deteriorate. But it is predicted to remain within the ‘very poor’ category for the next three days,” the Safar forecast read. IMD predicted that the temperatures are expected to remain on the higher side on Thursday, with the maximum temperature hovering around 29 degrees Celsius.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-increase-in-pollution-temperature-predicted-in-the-next-few-days-101613011812313.html
11-02-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: A woman and her greens||The woman in white sooti (cotton) sari is walking erect, with a big sack on her head. She is carrying it with confidence, showing neither fear nor instability as she wades through the lanes of this central Delhi neighbourhood. Even more astonishing is that she is balancing it without the aid of her arms.On being stopped and complimented for this skill, she smiles, but without shaking her head, which stays as still as statue. “I have been doing it for years at this time of the morning,” says Simon Khatoon modestly. In her 60s, she is heading home after filling up her sack with vegetables for the day. Each day, at dawn, she leaves her home and walks for about a mile to the vegetable mandi where “I never buy any tarkari (vegetables),” she clarifies. She instead picks up the vegetables that accidentally fall off from “trucks and lorries” as they are transferred by the labourers from the vehicles to the mandi stalls. The vegetables come from Azadpur subzi mandi, from where most of Delhi gets its greens.“This way I don’t have to spend money, and nobody suffers any loss,” says the woman, explaining that most of the veggies she picks up from the ground tend to be rotten and thus unsaleable—“but I slice off the rotten parts and the rest of the saag-subzi tastes fine.”Ms Khatoon lives with her son, and is the family’s only breadwinner. She works as a part-time housemaid and dishwasher in a few households. Her husband died years ago, she says. “We had come from Patna.”Ms Khatoon’s sack shows an emperor-like figure holding a rose, beside a dish of steaming rice—the branding suggests it originally belonged to a basmati rice company.At this hour the street is empty. The woman’s eyes scan 180 degrees, as if searching for anything. Responding to a query, she expresses her relief that all her daughters are married. “One lives in Khajuri, another in Shastri Park...,” she lists, referring to various Delhi neighbourhoods. It’s her son for whom, she says, she continues to work even in her advancing years. “He cannot see… so he stays at home all the time.”Now, raising her eyes upwards, she mutters “today I got a bit of matar, a bit of tamatar and a lot of gobhi.” Her voice suggests satisfaction. She starts walking again, her head perfectly still.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-a-woman-and-her-greens-101612999747782.html
11-02-2021||Chandigarh||Vigilance Bureau falsely implicated PCS officer for corruption, finds probe report||The Vigilance Bureau (VB) had falsely implicated a Punjab Civil Services (PCS) officer, Tarsem Chand, posted as secretary in the Regional Transport Authority in Faridkot district, in a corruption case in connivance with two private transporters in June last year. According to the findings of the probe conducted by VB deputy inspector general Surjit Singh, Chand was implicated in connivance with Muktsar-based private transporter Gursahib Singh Brar and complainant Baaj Singh, another transporter from Muktsar. The findings are a part of the probe carried out after Chand filed a representation for a fair inquiry in August. Officer’s driver is main accused On 23 June, 2020, Chand along with his driver and Punjab Police head constable Amarjit Singh were arrested by the Mohali VB team, led by deputy superintendent of police Harwinderpal Singh, for accepting ₹15,000 from Baaj to run his tourist buses bearing Rajasthan registration numbers in Punjab and also to ensure that they are not challaned. In July, the PCS Officers’ Association condemned Chand’s arrest and demanded that the case be cancelled. The probe report, accessed by Hindustan Times, grants a clean chit to Chand and recommends that he be discharged from the case. It says driver Amarjit Singh is the main accused and there is no “meaningful evidence” against Chand, who has been implicated due to a personal rivalry of the complainant, the transporters and aides. Recordings helped nail the lie The report says that Baaj approached Amarjit on June 16 and offered a monthly bribe to him, saying he had paid another RTA office employee, Suresh Kumar, too. Amarjit agreed to help. Baaj recorded their conversation and approached Mohali vigilance DSP Harwinderpal Singh. Baaj claimed that Chand was demanding the money for himself through Amarjit. “It’s clear from the recording of the conversation between Amarjit and Baaj that Chand never asked the transporter to meet his driver had no pending work of the complainant. Without taking the recording on the case file, the earlier investigating officer registered a corruption case against the RTA merely based on the complainant’s apprehension. Chand never directly or indirectly sought money,” the report says. “During the VB trap, Baaj kept asking Amarjit to get him to meet Chand. The VB team didn’t recover the money for 90 minutes (which should have been done immediately) after taking Amarjit into custody. Instead, the VB team took Amarjit to Chand’s office after being asked by Baaj,” the report says. After Baaj met Chand in his office and gave the list of his buses to the RTA, saying whatever you asked for as service (sewa) has been given to Amarjit, the VB team recovered the amount from Amarjit. Private transporter hatched conspiracy The report says Gursahib Singh, the owner of Darvesh transport, Muktsar, along with his brother, Rajinder Singh, frequently visited the RTA office in Faridkot and knew employees there. Gursahib is known to both Baaj and Karandeep Singh, a reader of the Mohali VB DSP. The three were in touch when the trap for Chand was laid. It is learnt that when Chand was posted as the Faridkot RTA, a case to register a VIP number, PBQ-0001, came to his office. Gursahib was interested in the number and was upset with the RTA for not acceding to his request for the number. “Gursahib was miffed when Chand transferred some old employees of the RTA office, resulting in his losing his grip on the office and thus began his rivalry with Chand. Gursahib hatched the conspiracy with Baaj and VB officials,” the report says. Call details showed Karandeep, Gursahib and Baaj were in touch with each other on the day the trap was laid. Gursahib and Karandeep exchanged 21 calls between 8am and 11.30pm on June 23.  ₹2 lakh placed in RTA’s car by driver On the recovery of ₹2 lakh from Tarsem’s car, the report says CCTV footage shows Amarjit keeping a packet in the RTA’s car at the Faridkot deputy commissioner’s office. The amount belongs to an RTA office clerk, Sukhwinder Singh, who alleged that Chand demanded the money. Sukhwinder withdrew the ₹2 lakh from a bank 13 days before the trap but handed over the amount to Amarjit only on the day the trap was laid. “An official witness in the case stated on August 5 that the bribe was recovered from Amarjit and it was the driver himself who handed over the car keys to VB officials after which they recovered ₹2 lakh. The information about ₹2 lakh to the complainant and Gursahib led to suspicion that the additional amount in the RTA’s car without his knowledge was to create additional evidence against him”, the report adds. VB officials mum on report Deputy inspector general Surjit Singh was not available for comment, while DSP Harwinderpal Singh said the matter is still being probed and the Mohali court is yet to give its verdict. Vigilance head constable Karandeep Singh feigned ignorance, too. Gursahib denied the allegations and claimed the VB had caught Chand and now wants to give him the clean chit so it’s blaming the transporters. Baaj said he stood by his complaint and alleged that the VB was under pressure from Chand. He said that he has filed an RTI application for the inquiry report and will approach the Punjab and Haryana high court against the VB for giving a clean chit to Chand. CASE FILE June 16, 2020: Complainant Baaj Singh strikes monthly bribe deal with Faridkot RTA Tarsem Chand’s driver Amarjit Singh June 22: Baaj files complaint with Mohali vigilance bureau against Tarsem and Amarjit June 23: Vigilance bureau lays trap, arrests Tarsem and Amarjit for accepting ₹15,000 July 3: PCS association condemns Tarsem’s arrest and takes up matter with Punjab chief secretary Vini Mahajan August 18: Tarsem files representation with vigilance. DIG Surjit Singh assigned inquiry January 2021: Vigilance probe finds Tarsem innocent. SIMILAR CASES In 2011, the vigilance bureau falsely implicated excise and taxation officer Ranjit Singh, who later committed suicide. In 2010, a Moga drug inspector in health department, Balram Luthra, was falsely implicated in a corruption case. Strap: Transporters conspired with vigilance staff and laid trap last year: Probe report||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/vigilance-bureau-falsely-implicated-pcs-officer-for-corruption-finds-probe-report-101612987628008.html
11-02-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh advisory council meets, leaves without any major decision||Organised after nearly 1.5 years, the Administrator’s Advisory Council meeting, held here on Wednesday, ended without any major decision for the city.The around two-hour session, organised at Hotel Mountview in Sector 10, started with UT administrator VP Singh Badnore addressing the members, following which law and order, and infrastructure development projects were taken up. The DGP made a presentation of around 15 minutes on the former, while UT chief engineer OP Ojha took 45 minutes for a presentation on the latter.Thereon, only some council members, mostly political leaders and bureaucrats, got the opportunity to speak for two minutes each. As a result, after the meeting, vexed representatives of the market, resident and industry associations sought changes in the format of the session.Suggestions were also made for action-taken reports to be tabled before the council members, to apprise them of the measures taken by the administration on the previously-issued recommendations by the council and its sub-committees.Fresh recommendations of the sub-committees were taken on record and members who didn’t get the time to speak were asked to submit their comments in writing.Council met last in Sept 2019The council had last met on September 13, 2019 after it was reconstituted in August 2019.Headed by the UT administrator, it is responsible for advising the administration on development issues and policy matters affecting the city, and gives a platform to the residents to air their views on a range of issues concerning the city.In addition to all senior UT officials, it includes current and former members of Parliament, mayor, resident and business association representatives, and other prominent citizens. It also has 10 standing committees, which are subject-matter-related groups headed by a chairman.‘Presentations were a waste of time’Terming the around one-hour-long presentations made by the UT police and engineering department a waste of time, Baljinder Singh Bittu, chairman, Federation of Sectors Welfare Association Chandigarh (FOSWAC), said, “Such presentations could be instead provided as reports in advance. But, instead most of the meeting was dedicated to them, which was mostly an exercise in self-praise.”Bittu, who was not allowed to speak because of “paucity of time”, added, “The real objective of the meeting is to allow people to connect with the authorities and air their views. They, and not officials, should be given precedence during the meeting.”The business community also expressed disappointment at not being given time to speak. Anil Vohra, former president and patron of the Chandigarh Beopar Mandal, said, “The administration not only ignored the business community, but also resident associations and industry representatives. The meeting should not be only about giving political leaders or bureaucrats another platform to speak. In fact, the administration should allow the resident and trader associations to express their views first.”Questioning the working of the council, Sanjay Tandon, BJP national council member and co-incharge of Himachal Pradesh BJP, said, “I have been attending the council meeting for the last 10 years and same issues are brought before us repeatedly. Why doesn’t the administration decide on issues on merit?”Tandon also demanded that before the meeting, the UT departments should give a closure report on the recommendations made by the sub-committees of the council. “I have worked in the sports committee for more than a year and we had suggested several measures to the sports department, like giving awards to local sportspersons. But, there has been no follow-up from the department.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-advisory-council-meets-leaves-without-any-major-decision-101612986007761.html
11-02-2021||Chandigarh||300 Covid vaccine-19 doses wasted in Chandigarh||As many as 300 precious doses of coronavirus vaccine have been wasted in Chandigarh since the vaccination rollout on January 16. These constitute 5.3% of the total doses utilised for healthcare employees and frontline workers, including those from the police and municipal corporation, till February 8.A vial of Covishield vaccine contains 10 doses – meant to be utilised on 10 beneficiaries within four hours of opening – failing which, it is rendered useless. What’s worrisome is that the percentage of doses wasted has almost doubled from 3% to 5.2% in the last two weeks, prompting authorities to take measures to bring it below 5%, even though the permissible limit set by the Union health ministry is 10%.“The administration recently suggested that the vaccine wastage be kept below 5% and measures be taken for it,” said a senior UT health official, not wishing to be named.Almost a month into the vaccination drive, less than 30% of the total registered beneficiaries have been inoculated in Chandigarh.“Preventing wastage of doses is our priority. After peak day hours, a vial is opened in the evening only after six to seven beneficiaries have arrived. If two sessions are underway at one site, we transport the opened vials for better utilisation, which saves some doses,” said Dr Amandeep Kang, director, UT health department.Jabs for 50+ age group likely in MarchThe health department is gearing up to administer the vaccine to the next priority group, which broadly includes people aged above 50, from March. While the department has not received any formal communication, the third phase of vaccination was recently announced by the health minister in the Parliament. Guv urges citizens to get the shotUT administrator VP Singh Badnore has appealed to the citizens to take advantage of the free vaccine being provided by the government. Speaking during the Administrator’s Advisory Council meeting on Wednesday, Badnore said, “There are some unfounded apprehensions in the minds of certain person regarding the vaccination. I solicit your support in spreading the correct message in this regard so that all prioritised persons take the vaccines not only to save themselves, but also all their near and dear ones and contribute in providing immunity to the nation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/300-covid-vaccine-19-doses-wasted-in-chandigarh-101612985888486.html
11-02-2021||Chandigarh||BJP candidate’s husband ends life in Mohali||The husband of a BJP candidate, contesting the Mohali MC polls, hanged himself at the PSPCL building in Phase 1 on Wednesday.Police said Som Pal, husband of BJP candidate from ward number 37, Munni Devi, worked as a sweeper at the PSPCL office.“He was found hanging in a room of the building around 8.30am. He hailed from Muradabad in Uttar Pradesh and was currently putting up in Mataur village with his wife and four children. No suicide note was recovered from the spot,” said deputy superintendent of police (City-2) Gursher Singh Sandhu.Devi alleged that their landlord, who was a former Mohali councillor, drove her husband to suicide by beating him up and pressuring them not to contest the elections. “We have initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure for now. A case will be registered after investigation is completed,” the DSP said.The body was sent to the civil hospital in Phase 6 for autopsy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bjp-candidate-s-husband-ends-life-in-mohali-101612985767726.html
11-02-2021||Chandigarh||Snatchers target woman sitting outside her house in Chandigarh||Two motorcycle-borne snatchers targeted a 45-year-old woman sitting in the sun outside her house in Sector 40 on Tuesday. The complainant, Anju, said around 12.15pm, she saw two men arrive on a motorcycle. While one walked towards her, another waited on the two-wheeler. Suddenly, the first man tried to snatch her chain. But, she held onto it, causing it to break. The snatcher fled with a part of the chain, while the remaining was left in Anju’s hand. On her complaint, a case under Section 379A (snatching) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at the Sector-29 police station. Police are scanning footage of CCTV cameras installed in the area to nab the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/snatchers-target-woman-sitting-outside-her-house-in-chandigarh-101612985647708.html
11-02-2021||Chandigarh||Rajewal, Punjabi artistes protest against agri laws in Mohali||Bharatiya Kisan Union (Rajewal) president Balbir Singh Rajewal and Punjabi artistes protested against the three farm laws in Sector 70 on Tuesday night.Artistes, including Kanwar Grewal, Sonia Mann and Gurjazz, addressed the protesters and encouraged them to join the agitation at Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur borders.Stating that the “chakka jam” call of Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) witnessed great success on February 6, Rajewal said the farmers’ agitation was getting stronger with farmers from Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan joining it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rajewal-punjabi-artistes-protest-against-agri-laws-in-mohali-101612985587782.html
11-02-2021||Mumbai||Amid tussle with MVA, Governor Koshyari says NCP’s Praful Patel following Modi’s mantra||Amidst a bitter tussle between Governor BS Koshyari and the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government, Koshyari on Tuesday attended a function organised by senior Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Praful Patel at an educational institute in Gondia, and lauded him for “following Modi’s mantra of Sabka Sath Sabka Vikas”. The development has set tongues wagging in political circles.Koshyari visited the Gondia Education Society’s Manoharbhai Patel Institute and felicitated meritorious students from Gondia and Bhandara districts on Tuesday. He also visited the National Flying Training Institute at Birsi and interacted with trainees. Addressing a gathering to celebrate the 115th anniversary of Manoharbhai Patel, the NCP leader’s father who was a politician and educationist, Koshyari said: “Praful Patel is following Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s slogan of ‘Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas’ in Gondia district. Manoharbhai Patel’s contribution to educational and social work in the era when there were no resources is inspirational and exemplary.”Koshyari is at loggerheads with the MVA government comprising the Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress, but has a cordial relationship with Patel, who is a Rajya Sabha member of Parliament. In response, Patel said that the Governor made the comment in context to his speech in which he has said that he takes everyone along following the footsteps of his father.“The Governor visited Gondia district for an educational function. In my speech, I had said that we take everyone along, following the tradition of my father, who followed the same principles. We don’t bring politics when it comes to development and social activities. The Governor made the comment in this context,” Patel said.Koshyari has been criticising the MVA government over various issues. Recently, he slammed the Thackeray government for delays in providing a government job to athlete Kavita Raut. Before that, he had said that allowing physical classes for schools and not allowing them for colleges and universities seemed contradictory.The Governor is yet to clear 12 names recommended by the state government for appointing as members of the Legislative Council (MLC) under his (Governor’s) quota. The recommendations were made by the state cabinet in November last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/amid-tussle-with-mva-governor-koshyari-says-ncp-s-praful-patel-following-modi-s-mantra-101612983787946.html
11-02-2021||Other||TMC finalises DPR for Thane coastal road||The Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has now finalised the detailed project report (DPR) of the 13-kilometre coastal road from Kharegaon to Gaimukh. The SPR has been signed by the civic commissioner and sent to the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) for further approval. A 5.5-km stretch of this 13-km road passes through the coastal regulation zone (CRZ), where the road will be elevated. A 450-m stretch goes through Naval Akbar Camp, where the road will be underground as per the DPR. The cost of the entire road has increased from ₹350 crore to ₹1,200 crore, which the MMRDA will be funding. The road will be a bypass road or alternative to the existing Ghodbunder Road, so the current congestion on the road will be eased. “The road was first proposed in 2007. The cost which was then ₹350 crore has now escalated to ₹1,200 crore. The width of the road is 40m and around 40% of the road passes through CRZ zone so we will construct it as an elevated road to minimize the damage to the environment. The 450m which will pass through the Naval base in Kolshet will be underground. The DPR was approved by the civic chief and will be sent to MMRDA for approval. Once approved, we will start the implementation,” said a Thane civic official. An MMRDA official confirmed that the project will be funded by them. “The coastal road project will be funded by us. The corporation will be undertaking the primary survey, alignment of the road, land acquisition and seeking various permissions from the CRZ and environment authorities. We have not yet received the DPR, but will ensure the process is not delayed at our end,” he said. Tunnel Vision A 450-m stretch of the road will be constructed as a tunnel, as the road passes from the Naval Akbar Camp of Kolshet, Thane. The MMRDA had approached the defence ministry for their no-objection certificate (NOC), which was granted in 2016. The ministry gave its approval provided the MMRDA makes a below-ground tunnel for the 200-m patch near the naval camp. This will ensure that the camp remains undisturbed. The Navy also had security concerns owing to the heavy traffic movement and have asked the MMRDA to repair any damage to the camp’s security wall, jetty and helipad during the project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tmc-finalises-dpr-for-thane-coastal-road-101612983487991.html
11-02-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra got ₹305,000 crore for infra in budget, says Fadnavis||Maharashtra has been allocated more than ₹305,000 crore for various infrastructure and development projects, including railway, Metro and road projects, in the Union budget, leader of Opposition and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis said on Wednesday, responding to the state government’s criticism. He added the criticism of the Bharatiya Janata Party-led Centre by the ruling parties in the state was to cover up their own failure. Fadnavis said 328 road projects have been given ₹133,255 crore, irrigation projects have allocation of ₹4,000 crore, while 16 new railway projects worth ₹7,107 crore and admeasuring 2,000km have been allocated for the state. “The Damanganga-Pinjal project has been given ₹3,000 crore, water supply project has been allocated ₹1,133 crore, while the drought-affected areas of Marathwada and Vidarbha have been given ₹1,200 crore. Metro line-3 in Mumbai has an allocation of ₹1,832 crore, ₹3,195 crore for Pune Metro, ₹5,976 crore for Nagpur and ₹2,092 crore for Nashik Metro lines,” he said. Fadnavis said many leaders and ministers from the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) attacked the BJP and its government in the Centre without actual knowledge of the outlay. He said the outlay of ₹42,044 crore for Maharashtra from devolution of taxes, ₹10,961 crore towards the finance commission grants is more than many other states. “The state has been complaining about the pending dues towards the compensation of the GST, but the computation of GST compensation is done in the month of July and the Centre has promised to pay all dues to the states,” he said. Maharashtra Congress general secretary Sachin Sawant said, “Fadnavis should tell us why Maharashtra was neglected while announcing development of the fishing centres in budget speech, despite the state being fifth largest in fish production. During Fadnavis’s tenure, the International Finance Services Cetre was taken to Gujarat from Mumbai. He is talking about the allocation of ₹3,00,000 crore, but he should also speak about the Centre’s failure to allocate more funds amid a pandemic. The Centre has also failed to release the dues against GST compensation.” Meanwhile, Fadnavis slammed the MVA government for the delay in arrest of Sharjeel Usmani against whom Pune police registered a criminal case for his provocative speech at Elgar Parishad last month. “The state government has failed to arrest him, but its police have been detaining BJP workers for agitating against him,” he said. Fadnavis also criticised the Uddhav Thackeray-led government for the home department’s announcement of probing the alleged pressure on Indian celebrities to tweet in response to the statements by international celebrities on farmers’ protest. Fadnavis said there was no provision in the law to take any action for the tweets, but the announcement by home minister Anil Deshmukh has exposed the state government’s mindset. Fadnavis also said that ruling parties are scared of the election of the Assembly speaker after Nana Patole resigned from the post. He said that the MVA was worried it will be exposed on the floor for the reduction in the support by the legislators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-got-305-000-crore-for-infra-in-budget-saysfadnavis-101612983008414.html
11-02-2021||Mumbai||Visitation for lawyers and family members to resume in Maharashtra prisons||Prisons in Maharashtra will now resume visitations by inmates’ family members from Monday while Arthur Road jail (Mumbai Central Jail) and Thane jail permitted visits from advocates from Wednesday. The visits were stopped since March 2020, after the Covid-19 lockdown was imposed. The inmates will now be able to meet their family members after almost a year. Sunil Ramanand, additional director general of Maharashtra prisons confirmed that a circular was issued to all central and district jail superintendents of Maharashtra, asking them to coordinate with the respective district collectors and municipal commissioners on this regard. As per safety protocols, instead of five people, only two will be allowed to visit at a time and those below 15 years and above 55 years will not be allowed entry. During the lockdown, the government had released a few inmates on bail to decongest the prisons. “Every inmate wanted to get bail citing the reason of Covid-19, however, as the visitations from lawyers were stopped, they could not get any updates on bail procedures. In July 2020, coin box calling and video calling was started. As per the jail manual, undertrials are allowed to use the phone four times a month, while convicts are allowed the use of it twice a month,” said an official from the Maharashtra prison department. VB Vayachal, superintendent of police, Arthur Road jail informed that after taking the inspector-general’s permission and meeting the Mumbai district collector, they have started visits from advocates on Wednesday. Masks and use of sanitisers have also been made mandatory. The same circular will be implemented in Thane, Taloja and Byculla jail from February 15. Sadanand Gaikwad, superintendent of police, Byculla jail, said, “Visitors with masks will be allowed and sanitisers will be used. The visits are through intercoms. We will see that the intercoms are sanitised after every visit.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/visitation-for-lawyers-and-family-members-to-resume-in-maharashtra-prisons-101612982467666.html
11-02-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra government expects revenue loss of Rs1.12L-crore, work on devpt projects hit||Owing to the Covid-19 pandemic and the ensuing lockdown that crippled Maharashtra’s economy, the state government is staring at a deficit of more than ₹1.12 lakh crore for financial year 2020-21. This has affected development projects and social schemes largely with all the departments being instructed to spend cautiously in the remaining two months of the fiscal year.The state finance department on Wednesday made a presentation before the state cabinet, informing them that against the estimated revenue of ₹3.34 lakh crore, the cumulative collection until the end of January was around ₹1.80 lakh crore and around ₹50,000 crore more is expected in the remaining two months, so the deficit is expected to be about ₹1.12 lakh crore. The outstanding dues with the Centre towards the compensation for losses while implementing the Goods and Services Tax (GST) regime and devolution of taxes is about ₹26,000 crore, making it difficult for the state to release funds on development works.“All sectors, especially industries and services, were badly hit due to the lockdown imposed from March last year. The GST collection is expected to see a deficit of around ₹35,000 crore in FY 20-21, so is the fall in the collection in other heads, including stamp duty, vehicles taxes and excise. Despite it, the state government released cent percent funds allocated for district planning and developments and local area development funds allocated to the legislators. Barring a few departments such as home, public health, medical education, other departments will have to compromise on their allocations for the remaining period of the FY,” the presentation emphasised.Though the revenue receipts from the taxes have improved over the last few months and have crossed over ₹20,000 crore a month, which had dropped to about ₹12,000 crore in first two months of the FY 20-21. State spends about ₹12,000 crore on the fixed monthly expenditure on salary and pension of the government employees. “The state government has already borrowed ₹70,000 crore and ended up spending ₹25,000 crore for the relief and rehabilitation of farmers and people hit by unseasonal rain, Nisarg cyclone, among others,” the presentation stated. “The state is tapping newer ways of resource mobilisation and is expected to levy toll on heavy vehicles and the sand transported to the state from other states. This cascading effect of the economic crisis is expected to remain for at least first few months of the next financial year, which has made mobilisation of taxes more important,” said a minister after the meeting. Neeraj Hatekar, an economist with Mumbai University, said, “The deficit would be because of the revenue shortfall and drop in GST collection. It is a fallout of the economic crisis because of the pandemic. The government will however have to raise funds by borrowing instead of cutting down on the development funds.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-government-expects-revenue-loss-of-rs1-12l-crore-work-on-devpt-projects-hit-101612982407712.html
11-02-2021||Other||4 held for selling 8-month-old girl for ₹5 lakh in Virar||Four persons – Gurwari alias Manju Sonjit Mandal and her husband Sonjit Mandal, Anita Vinoba Bhave and Dr Jiten Bala have been arrested by the Virar police for allegedly selling an eight-month-old infant girl for purportedly ₹5 lakh on Tuesday evening. When produced before the Vasai court on Wednesday, the quartet has been remanded in police custody till February 16.“The couple had arrived with the infant at a sugarcane juice stall near the MSRTC stand in Virar (East) in a bid to sell the child. A police constable found their movement suspicious and when he questioned them, they gave flimsy answers. The couple later revealed that they were there to sell the child to a couple for ₹5 lakh,” said Suresh Warade, senior inspector, Virar police station.“Later, we arrested the other two accused and all four were charged under section 370(1) (knowingly or having reason to believe that a minor for engaging in sexual exploitation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Bill, 2015. They were remanded in police custody till February 16,” Warade added.The infant was taken to a government child care centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/4-held-for-selling-8-month-old-girl-for-5-lakh-in-virar-101612982287647.html
11-02-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra sees 3,451 Covid-19 cases, tally now 2,052,253||After a gap of 21 days, the state recorded more than 3,000 new Covid-19 cases in a day. On Wednesday, 3,451 cases were reported, pushing Maharashtra’s tally to 2,052,253. While there has been improvement in terms of recorded number of cases, officials expressed concern that the daily average has plateaued instead of falling. Earlier on January 20, the state had recorded 3,015 cases.New cases of Covid-19 have plateaued in the last three months, but Maharashtra still has 34,640 active cases, which is the second highest in the country. The state also has the highest number of Covid-19 cases in India. In Mumbai, 558 new cases were reported, raising the total number of cases to 313,213. At present, the city has 5,372 active cases and four deaths reported on Wednesday. Mumbai’s Covid-19 death toll is at 11,402. In the last 10 days, there have been 25,854 cases of Covid-19 in Maharashtra and the daily average is around 2,585, according to the state health department. In the corresponding period in January, 34,892 cases were reported and the daily average was 3,489, which indicates a slight slowing down in the infection’s growth rate. However, a senior official requesting anonymity said, “We are expecting a gradual fall in daily cases, which is not happening. The daily cases have hit a plateau and are not going down as expected. In between, we are also experiencing a rise in daily cases like today’s.” At the state Cabinet meeting on Wednesday, health secretary Pradeep Vyas made a presentation on the spread of Covid-19 in Maharashtra and ministers expressed concern over rise in the number of daily cases in certain districts. Four districts — Parbhani, Jalna, Beed and Latur in Central Maharashtra and Amravati division (comprising Akola, Amravati, Buldhana, Yavatmal and Washim) — have reported rising incidence of cases daily. “Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray directed the state administration to strictly implement tracking, tracing and testing formula to contain the spread,” said a senior minister, on condition of anonymity. Meanwhile, close to 573,666 beneficiaries have been vaccinated in Maharashtra since the nationwide vaccination drive began on January 16. Of them, 503,002 are healthcare workers (HCWs) and 70,664 are frontline workers (FLWs). On Wednesday, 37,223 people were inoculated, of which 20,004 were HCWs and 17,219 were FLWs. Maharashtra has around 800,000 HCWs and 580,000 FLWs registered on CoWIN, the centralised app that is managing vaccinations. In Mumbai, 4,431 beneficiaries were vaccinated across 23 centres. Across the island city and Mumbai suburban, 90,533 beneficiaries have been inoculated till date. Of the total vaccinated beneficiaries in the state, 5,149 received Covaxin, developed by Bharat Biotech, across six centres in the state, said the health department. Both Covaxin and Covishield require each beneficiary to receive two shots of the vaccine at a gap of 28 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-sees-3-451-covid-19-cases-tally-now-2052253-101612982167635.html
11-02-2021||Mumbai||Maratha candidates can apply in EWS category for jobs in energy department||The Maharashtra government on Wednesday announced that Maratha candidates from the Socially and Educationally Backward Class (SEBC) can apply for jobs in the state energy department in the Economically Weaker Section (EWS) reservation. A circular on the decision was issued by the department on Wednesday. The state may soon also allow Maratha candidates to avail the benefit of job reservation under the EWS quota in all the departments. The government’s decision throws open around 8,000 jobs in the energy department to Maratha candidates, whose fate has been in the balance after the newly-created SEBC quota is stayed by the Supreme Court (SC), said energy minister Nitin Raut.The circular issued by the energy department stated that Maratha candidates can apply under the EWS quota, which is 10%. The department had started the process of recruiting for various posts in 2019, however, the process was delayed.Raut said that the advertisement for recruitment that was published in 2019 had to be put on hold after a stay on the Maratha quota on September 9, 2020. He added that those who want to avail the benefit can apply for the around 8,000 posts including those for engineer, junior engineer, sub-station assistant, etc.Candidates from the Maratha community who are also eligible for EWS quota and fulfil the income criteria can seek benefit under the quota, Raut said. The government has instructed all district administrations to set up special cells to initiate drives to issue EWS certificates. The state also stated that it would be optional for Maratha candidates to avail the benefit of EWS quota. State cabinet minister and head of the cabinet sub-committee on Maratha reservations, Ashok Chavan on Wednesday requested the state cabinet to make this benefit available for other government departments as well. He added that the government is positive about applying the same decision to all other departments as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maratha-candidates-can-apply-in-ews-category-for-jobs-in-energy-department-101612982107617.html
11-02-2021||Mumbai||Corporate area spaces, more residential spots for parking in Mumbai?||From use of parking spaces in corporate parks for public as private offices are now operating on a work-from-home (WFH) basis to increasing residential day and night parking in all wards to cater to increase in the demand due to WFH, the Mumbai Parking Authority (MPA) is exploring a variety of new parking options for the city based on the conclusions of a study on the impact of Covid-19 and lockdown on traffic, use of public transport, and parking demand in Metro cities, including Mumbai. The authority also plans to restudy peaks of demand in parking due to staggered working hours offices and has suggested use of school and office buses, which are currently not in use, to increase the bus fleet in the city.The study, ‘Impact of Covid-19 on mobility in Indian cities’, was independently conducted by a group of city-based transport planners via online platforms in eight Indian cities, including Mumbai, in May and June 2020. It was published by the Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific, United Nations Bulletin, in mid-December 2020. Nishant Sawant, one of the transport planners who conducted the survey in the city, is also working with the MPA. Hence, the MPA has decided to examine the findings of this study to augment parking in the city.The survey, which researched public opinion via surveys on transport mode choice, public transport ridership, and vehicular ownership in a post-pandemic scenario, revealed that 36% of the respondents who use public transport are likely to shift to private mode of transport post-Covid-19. Moreover, 39% of the respondents who use public transport and do not own a vehicle at present are willing to purchase a vehicle for commute. The MPA has concluded that this will incrementally add to the demand for parking space in the city in the coming months. A total of 169 respondents were from Mumbai.Sawant said, “At least 39% of those who use public transport at present are willing to buy new vehicles for the commute. This was a new and significant finding for us. Most of them are from middle-income families, and used public transport in pre-Covid times.”MPA is now in talks with as many corporate spaces, business parks and business districts, to take them on board and use their parking spaces for public parking. Shishir Joshi, CEO and founder of Project Mumbai, and a member of the MPA, said, “As a lot of people are working from home and will continue to do so until mid of end of 2021, parking spaces in corporate and business parks can be used for public parking. Also, with offices exploring staggered work timings, our peak-hour demand for parking will now change.”The civic body has provided 30 public parking lots and 14 amenity plots under the policy guidelines, amounting to 25,948 parking spaces. The BMC is calculating the latest number of available on-street parking spaces.MPA noticed that as most people are working from home, their vehicles remain unused, and require residential parking through the day, contrary to the earlier scenario, where people would take their vehicles out to work for nine or more hours per day, and residential parkings would be vacant. This has increased the need to have more residential parking lots. Assistant Commissioners of all wards of the city are now tasked with exploring day/night residential parking space. The MPA will also explore differential pricing for longer hours of residential parking in the months to come.Rohit Ahuja, a resident of Vakola, said, “I do not have a problem finding a parking lot because my work space has ample parking. But the main reason anyone doesn’t park in a parking lot is because no one wants to pay money, or go through the effort of finding a parking spot. It would help to have added parking lots in the city. Alongside this, fining for parking on the street which is a no-parking zone needs to be made stricter so everyone uses paid parking lots.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/corporate-area-spaces-more-residential-spots-for-parking-in-mumbai-101612982047723.html
11-02-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC refuses to quash rape case on grounds of settlement||The Bombay high court (HC) on Tuesday refused to quash an offence of rape registered against a city resident, who is also accused of forcing the survivor to abort the foetus, on the grounds of amicable settlement between him and the woman.“The allegations in the first information report (FIR) not only disclose the offence punishable under section 376 (rape) of the Indian Penal Code, but also under section 313 (causing miscarriage),” said the bench of justice SS Shinde and justice Manish Pitale. “The offences are very serious and heinous in nature. Therefore, the FIR cannot be quashed on the basis of amicable settlement or on merits,” the bench added and dismissed the petition filed by the accused.The accused had moved HC seeking to quash the FIR registered against him at Borivli police station on the grounds that the survivor and he had reached an amicable settlement. The survivor had appeared before the bench and said she voluntarily agreed to the settlement and urged the court to quash the criminal proceeding.However, additional public prosecutor Aruna Pai opposed the petition saying that serious allegations are levelled against the accused and the outcome of the impugned FIR has great impact upon the society. In view of this, Pai urged the court to not entertain the prayer for quashing the FIR.The court accepted her contention and dismissed the petition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-refuses-to-quash-rape-case-on-grounds-of-settlement-101612981927664.html
11-02-2021||Mumbai||Avian influenza: 108,292 more poultry birds culled in Maharashtra||Maharashtra on Wednesday culled 108,292 poultry birds in Navapur tehsil of Nandurbar district to contain bird flu or avian influenza. This is in addition to the 231,902 poultry birds culled till Tuesday, taking the count to around 340,195 till date in Navapur alone.The total number of poultry birds culled across the state has reached around 419,033 till date.Culling was started after ICAR-National Institute of High-Security Animal Diseases (NIHSAD), Bhopal, confirmed bird flu deaths in 16 poultry farms in Navapur. It has identified the H5N8 strain as the cause of death in poultry in the area, officials from the state animal husbandry department confirmed.“We are trying to complete the culling process as early as possible because the virus is spreading in the area. On Wednesday, 108,292 poultry birds were culled,” said a senior official from the state animal husbandry department.The state has set up 72 teams comprising 300 officials, to complete the culling process.Navapur is known for layer poultry farming and has 27 such poultry farms. This is the second time the state has been affected by bird flu in the last 15 years.The state also continued to record bird deaths on Wednesday as 185 bird deaths were reported, of which 180 were poultry birds. The count of bird deaths across the state has risen to 41,689.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/avian-influenza-108-292-more-poultry-birds-culled-in-maharashtra-101612981812149.html
11-02-2021||Delhi||R-Day violence: Was in hiding because my life was at risk, says Deep Sidhu to cops||Punjabi actor-turned-activist Deep Sidhu, arrested on Monday for his role in the Republic Day’s violence at Red Fort, has told the police that he was hiding because “his life was at risk” and he feared that he will be killed since the farm leaders have put the entire blame for the violence on him, police officers associated with the case said on Wednesday.The officers said Sidhu has also said that the tractor march to the Red Fort and ITO “was not spontaneous”. He said for 15 days before the Republic Day rally was held, farmer leaders in Punjab and at the Singhu border were telling farmers that they will be “carrying out their tractor rally to New Delhi, Parliament, India Gate and Red Fort.”While the police said the “allegations and disclosures” made by Sidhu will be verified, farm leaders said they will not comment until they hear or read Sidhu’s revelations that he has made before the police.“We cannot comment on such allegations until we officially know what all Sidhu has said to the police,” said Manjeet Rai, president of Bharatiya Kisan Union’s (BKU) Doaba group.The farm leaders have maintained that they did not allow Sidhu to use the stage at the Singhu border because of his alleged association with the “ruling party and his extremist views”.Harinder Happy a member of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha on Tuesday said that Sidhu hijacked the stage on January 25 evening and gave a provocative speech to incite farmers after which he was asked to leave the protest site. He also said that it was the last time that anyone saw Sidhu at the border until photographs of the actor at the Red Fort were widely circulated on television and social media.Sidhu was arrested from near Karnal Bypass in Haryana around 10.30 pm on Monday while he was waiting for a car arranged by his friend for his journey to meet his wife in Bihar’s Purnea, the police had said on Tuesday and claimed that Sidhu played a key role in instigating protesters.“On the run after show-biz at Red Fort rampart, actor Deep Sidhu arrested. Was a prominent player behind Republic Day violence. Had been instigating youngsters with his provocative speeches and stardom even when he was hiding from the law,” the special cell had tweeted on Tuesday after his arrest.While seeking Sidhu’s custody on Tuesday, the police had informed the city court that he congratulated the men who hoisted flags at the Red Fort and also did a Facebook live from the complex. Police said he was seen entering the Red Fort with people carrying swords, sticks and flags and delivered speeches to incite people. Police said many videos on his verified Facebook page through which he claimed to be innocent and was not among the rioters were uploaded from the US. In those videos, Sidhu said he was not a “traitor” or a “rioter”.On Wednesday, an intelligence bureau (IB) team also interrogated Sidhu at the crime branch’s Chanakyapuri office to ascertain his political and international links, police officers privy to the development said.One of the officers said that Sidhu has disclosed that he had reached the Red Fort in a car with his three supporters and returned to the Singhu border in the evening after the violence. From there he went to Punjab in the same car and with the same three men.“He kept changing his hideouts in Punjab, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh. We will be taking him to all the places he visited and identify people who helped him,” the officer said, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/deep-sidhu-feared-attempt-on-life-police-101612980607332.html
11-02-2021||Delhi||‘Upload all FIRs of Jan 26 violence from Nangloi on police website’: Court||A city court has directed the Delhi Police to upload on its website all FIRs registered at the Nangloi police station in connection with the violence during the January 26 tractor parade.Metropolitan magistrate Abhinav Pandey said that unless any specific reason is not given by the Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP) concerned, all FIRs should be uploaded on the agency’s website, so that representatives of the accused persons are not forced to run from pillar to post.“Needless to state, in all pertaining to the violence ensued in context of farmers agitation registered at PS Nangloi, except where any reasons have been communicated to this court for not doing the same, the guidelines as laid down by high court of Delhi shall be adhered to, and the FIRs shall be uploaded on the website of the Delhi Police….,” the court said in an order of February 9.The court was hearing a plea by one Deepak, from Haryana, who was arrested from Nangloi for his alleged involvement in the violence during the rally.The suspect, who is in judicial custody, had through his counsel sought the copy of the FIR and related documents like arrest memo and remand application to pursue his legal remedies. On Tuesday, the judge asked the station house officer (SHO) and DCP to check whether the FIR has been uploaded on the website while noting that the DCP gave the court no verbal communication for not uploading the FIR.The court, however, denied the request for the supply other documents like arrest memo, remand order and remand application to the accused at the stage of investigation and it would be given after the charge sheet has been filed.The suspect, in his plea, said he was not able to pursue his legal remedies in absence of the FIR or related documents.The tractor parade on January 26, held by farmers to highlight their demands to repeal three new farm laws, had turned violent as police clashed with protesters. A section of farmers had also reached the Red Fort and hoisted a religious flag there.Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, are protesting at various border points of Delhi for over two months now against the three laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/file-all-firs-registered-at-nangloi-in-connection-with-jan-26-violence-on-your-website-court-orders-cops-101612980606829.html
11-02-2021||Delhi||The chill is gone: Mercury in Delhi crosses 30°C mark||The mercury in the national capital continued to rise on Wednesday, with the maximum temperature hitting 30.4 degrees Celsius, seven above the season’s normal. Scientists at the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast that temperatures will continue to show a rising trend from now, marking the end of the winter season in the national capital.IMD recordings show that on Wednesday, the minimum temperature at the Safdarjung observatory, which is considered the official reading for the city, was 10.2°C.At the Palam weather station, the minimum temperature was 12.5°C, two degrees above normal, while the maximum temperature was 25.8°C.Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said the maximum temperature on Thursday and Friday is exactly likely to be around 29 degrees Celsius.“We can say that the winters are over. After this there is no forecast of a cold day or a cold wave hitting Delhi and the NCR parts,” Srivastava said.The air quality also improved marginally on Wednesday. Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) recordings show that the overall air quality index (AQI) of Delhi was 291, in the ‘poor’ zone, which was an improvement from Tuesday’s 305, categorised as ‘very poor’ in the AQI scale.Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar), the forecast said the AQI is likely to marginally deteriorate again in the coming days.“Surface winds are low, which is likely to reduce ventilation coefficient slightly and hence AQI is likely to marginally deteriorate. But it is predicted to remain within the very poor category for the next three days,” the Safar forecast read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/the-chill-is-gone-mercury-in-delhi-crosses-30-c-mark-101612980549115.html
11-02-2021||Delhi||14,743 people get Covid-19 jabs as vaccination number keeps increasing in Delhi||Delhi on Wednesday saw 14,743 people receiving the Covid-19 vaccine shots — the highest number since the inoculation drive was launched on January 16 .After Wednesday’s drive, as per data, more than 12,000 had received the vaccines for two consecutive days, as the drive picked up pace and more beneficiaries, including police personnel, got the jabs.The vaccine coverage – the proportion of people who get the shot among total targeted – bounced back to 80.5% on Wednesday, an increase of 11% over the previous day. The Delhi government has added another 82 centre, taking the total to 265, to keep up pace with the rush.“Yes, not every centre is achieving 100% target; however having more centres will increase the ease of getting the shot for people. Plus, we need to vaccinate health care workers and front line workers as quickly as possible and then move to the general population. For that, we will again need more centres,” said a senior district official. This will also help, as the health care workers who were vaccinated initially will be given their next shot starting at the end of the week, another official said.The vaccination of the health care workers will stop February 20 onwards as per the directions of the Central government. Those who missed out on their turn can get it over the next five days. So far, only 146,768 persons – including front line workers -- have received the shot in Delhi. There are 240,000 registered health care staff who were eligible for vaccination.Currently, all the 265 vaccination sites are in hospital setting, allowing the government to quickly manage any adverse reactions that happen. However, two senior Delhi government officials confirmed that in the next week, vaccination sites are likely to be opened in dispensaries as well.“For this, proper planning would be needed – ambulances will have to be on the standby, nearby hospitals have to be recognised for emergency care of anyone who has adverse reactions,” said one of the two officials.At least three of the eleven revenue districts in Delhi saw over 100% vaccine coverage on Wednesday – north-east (176.8%), New Delhi (105%), North (103.8%). North-east district has seen over 100% coverage for the last three days.Almost 80% of the people getting the shot are front line workers in most districts.“Around 70 to 80% of the people who are getting vaccinated right now are front line workers. Initially, everyone was hesitant but slowly the awareness is building and more and more people are getting the shot,” said a senior official from south-west district.Another official from Shahadara district said, “Now, most of the beneficiaries being vaccinated are front line workers, especially police personnel who are now coming forward in large numbers. Earlier, the turnout was low because of the farmer’s protest. In addition, we are also calling the beneficiaries multiple times which is resulting in higher turnouts.”The official said that the department heads were being encouraged to get the vaccines themselves and motivate those working under them in order to increase coverage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/14743-people-get-covid-jabs-as-vaccination-number-keeps-increasing-indelhi-101612980548531.html
11-02-2021||Delhi||Third suspect in Red Fort violence arrested from Punjab||The police on Wednesday said they have arrested Iqbal Singh, who they claimed instigated the protesters gathered at the Red Fort and vandalised property and clashed with security personnel during the tractor rally taken out by the farmers on Republic Day.Singh was arrested from Hoshiarpur in Punjab on Tuesday night, the third suspect in the Red Fort violence case. The police arrested Punjabi actor-turned-activist Deep Sidhu from Karnal bypass in Haryana on Monday and Sukhdev Singh from Chandigarh on Sunday.Deputy commissioner of police (special cell) Sanjeev Kumar Yadav said Iqbal Singh delivered a “provocative speech” and “instigated the mob to storm Red Fort and hoist religious flags”. Iqbal also “intimidated” police personnel during the violence at the monument, said Yadav after Iqbal’s initial interrogation at the special cell’s Rohini office on Wednesday.“Iqbal Singh was very excited...He did a Facebook live from the Red Fort and can be heard instigating people to climb onto the fort. He was not taking any instructions from farmer leaders and wasn’t in touch with them,” said DCP Yadav.Also Read | Deep Sidhu spent 13 days as fugitive with friends, was active on FacebookHundreds of farmers protesting on Delhi’s borders against the three farm laws passed by Parliament in September entered Delhi deviating from the routes approved for a tractor rally and clashed with the police at several locations. One farmer died and 10 others were injured. More than 500 police personnel also suffered injuries in the violence.Iqbal was sent to seven days in police custody by a city court, where the police told the magistrate that he was allegedly one of the main conspirators behind the “well-planned” violence.“There are hundreds of videos. We need to confront him with all these. We need to find out who are the people who came with him and who are they affiliated with….He was one of the main instigators. This was a conspiracy,” the police said in the court.The investigating officer also said that Iqbal’s alleged link to Deep Sidhu also needed to be ascertained.Iqbal denied instigating protesters. “I did not come to cause violence. I reached Red Fort just like that and had not planned to go there. When I reached emotions flared up. Whatever I did is there on my live video. I did not instigate anyone,” he said in the court.A resident of Ludhiana in Punjab, Iqbal Singh was among the eight key suspects in the Red Fort violence case against whom the city police had announced a total reward of ₹6 lakh.“We caught Iqbal at around 11.30pm on Tuesday night from Hoshiarpur following information that we collected and developed through technical surveillance. Iqbal is a Granthi (ceremonial reader) and he used to visit several gurdwaras,” said DCP Yadav.Investigators said Iqbal was visiting the Singhu border protest site near Delhi since November last year. He last visited Singhu border on on January 22 along with thousands of farmers from various place in Punjab for participating in the Republic Day tractor march, they said.“On January 26 around 12.30 pm, Iqbal reached the Red Fort along with other protesters on a tractor. He was among the crowd that allegedly stormed the Red Fort, involved in clashes with security personnel and hoisted religious and farmers union’s flags,” a police officer said, quoting Iqbal’s disclosures to the police.After the violence, Iqbal returned to the Singhu border and stayed there till late night, before leaving for Mohali with other farmers. From Mohali, he returned to his home in Ludhiana and stayed there till November 29.When he learnt that he was one of the suspects in the case, he left his home along with his wife in their car that did not have a registration plate but a religious flag to identify it as the vehicle of a ‘sewadar’. He first went to Amritsar and then to Ropar, where he stayed for the next eight days. On February 7, he went to his sister’s home in Amritsar and left for Hoshiarpur, from where we caught him on the night of February 9,” said a second police officer.The special cell team was following the cellphones of Iqbal’s family members, relatives, and associates close to him. “The clue about his location in Hoshiarpur came when he contacted one of his relatives. Being a ceremonial reader, Iqbal used his links to get hideouts while on the run,” said the officer.The other suspects in the case who are still on the run are Jugraj Singh, identified as the one who allegedly hoisted a religious flag on the ramparts of Red Fort, Gurjit Singh, Gurjant Singh, Buta Singh, and Jajbir Singh. Jugraj, Gurjot and Gurjant also carry R 1 lakh reward each for their arrest while there is a R 50,000 reward each for information leading to the arrest of Buta and Jajbir.(With inputs from Richa Banka)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/third-suspect-in-red-fort-violence-arrested-from-punjab-police-claim-he-instigated-protesters-101612980546728.html
11-02-2021||Delhi||DDA gives nod for eco-friendly revamp of green belt villages in city||With a view to encourage eco-friendly development, the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) on Wednesday approved the Green Development Area (GDA) policy, to regulate infrastructure and other works in villages that are located in the green belt on Delhi’s periphery as well as low-density residential areas (LDRA), where a majority of farmhouses are located.The policy is much needed, experts said, and will help regulate development activities in villages and ensure that they happen in a sustainable and green manner, without compromising Delhi’s green lungs.A total of 70 villages in the urban extensions of the national capital will benefit from the policy, once it is notified, officials in the know of the matter said.As per the Master Plan of Delhi 2021 (MPD 2021), the green belt extends from the boundary of the national capital “up to a depth of one peripheral revenue village boundary”.The policy, which was approved at a meeting of the DDA, chaired by lieutenant-governor Anil Baijal, will be put in the public domain for suggestions and objections before being sent to the Union housing and urban affairs ministry for notification.Currently, no new construction, either residential or commercial, is allowed in the 47 rural villages -- such as Dhansa, Mitraon, Tikri Kalan, Kapashera, parts of Rajokri, Ghumanhera, Bamnoli and Bijwasan -- that are located on the periphery of the city.A senior DDA official said, on condition of anonymity, “The GDA policy will encourage ‘green development’ and will ensure seamless development of infrastructure and road network within and around GDA.”The new policy, a second senior DDA official said, will allow planned development in these villages and make way for institutions, hospitals and big parks to come up. The policy will also be applicable to the 23 villages that are currently covered by the low-density residential area (LDRA) policy, notified in 2013.As per the policy, there will be a three-graded approach towards the development of land parcels falling in these areas. The policy provides a framework defining a minimum land area required for green development.In Grade 1, a minimum plot area of 600 square metres (sqm) is required, whereas in Grade 2 and 3, the minimum plot area required will be 4,000sqm and 10,000sqm, respectively. “The idea is to incentivise development on agglomerated land parcels of bigger size. The floor area ratio (FAR) permitted will vary from five (for Grade 1) to 60 (for Grade 3), depending on the plot size,” said the second official.The official continued, “The FAR will be much less than what is approved for any development in the rest of the city in a bid to ensure that the green character of the area is not affected.”For instance, in Grade 3, higher education campuses, non-polluting work centres such as cyber and knowledge parks, research and development, agricultural processing and packaging units, cold storage, convention and exhibition centres, concert spaces and stadium will be allowed.The mandatory wooded area shall be increased as per the grade change, with a minimum 45% of the plot area in case of Grade 3 kept aside as wooded/green area.Currently, the MPD-2021 allows the following activities in green belt areas: agricultural use, dairy farms, piggery, poultry farms, biodiversity park, veterinary centre, and police post, among others.On vacant plots in these villages, the DDA has allowed activities such as pre-primary school, nursing home, clinic, dispensary, banks, fitness centres, and coaching institutes, among others.Villagers say with the population in these villages increasing, there is a need for a plan development, so that people can construct houses and earn a livelihood.Bhupinder Bazad, president of master plan committee of Delhi Dehat Vikas Manch, said, “There are a lot of warehouses in these villages that are currently unauthorised. As the village population is increasing, residents need space to construct new houses and also look at opportunities to earn a livelihood. The GDA policy is the need of the hour. While we need to protect the green lungs of the city, we also have to provide avenues to villagers for gainful employment.”Now a majority of the villages in Delhi has been declared as urbanised. Three years ago, the DDA started the process to implement the land pooling scheme in 95 urbanised villages that are close to the villages in the green belt.“We can’t rely on farming for a livelihood, as most farmers only have small land parcels with them. In the absence of a policy, a number of farmers are selling their land and unauthorised colonies are coming up on those parcels,” said Pradeep Dagar, a resident of Dhansa village in Najafgarh.Urban planning expert Sabyasachi Das, former planning commission with DDA, said, “It is a good move that the DDA is working on a policy for planned development in these villages. But commercial activity shouldn’t be allowed there, as that will destroy the green belt. There is a need to have strict development control norms. While giving permission for development, the focus should be on creating more green spaces on the plot.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/dda-approves-policy-to-encourage-eco-friendly-development-in-green-belt-villages-low-density-areas-101612980488679.html
11-02-2021||Delhi||EDMC scraps new taxes for FY21-22||The East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) on Wednesday scrapped all new taxes such as betterment tax, education cess and professional tax, which were proposed by the EDMC additional commissioner in the budget presentation last December for financial year 2021-22.The civic body has, instead, decided to bring more properties under the tax ambit to boost its revenue. It has also decided to approach the Delhi government to ask for its dues of ₹2,985 crore to improve its financial situation.The total budget projection of the East corporation for fiscal 2021-22 is ₹4,653 crore.Presenting the final budget estimates for the financial year 2021-22, leader of the house in EDMC Pravesh Sharma said increasing tax on properties cannot be the only solution to boost revenue collection. “There will be no new tax for the people living (in neighbourhoods) under the EDMC jurisdiction. The public are already suffering because of the coronavirus pandemic, hence, we will not levy any new tax. The proposal of imposing new taxes has been scrapped,” Sharma said.In the initial budget proposals for 2021-22, presented by EDMC additional commissioner Ramesh Verma on December 9, it was proposed to impose three new taxes — professional tax, betterment tax and education cess.Professional tax has already been approved by the South Delhi Municipal Corporation whereby professionals such as doctors, lawyers, architects -- both salaried and self-employed -- will have to pay a tax based on different income slabs. The betterment tax was to be levied against properties, the values of which have been constantly rising because of public infrastructure development works.The additional commissioner had also proposed an education cess of 5% on the annual property tax.Sharma further said there are other ways to bolster revenue so instead of new taxes or hiking property tax, the civic body has decided to bring more people under its tax net. “At present, only 2.5 lakh properties in the EDMC pay taxes while the number of taxable properties is above 14 lakh. So, we will conduct a fresh survey of properties from which tax can be collected and will start special drives to improve tax collection,” Sharma said.He also said that the municipality will mount pressure on the Delhi government to release ₹2,985 crore, due towards EDMC, so that the civic body’s financial health improves.Sharma said that the budget also proposes to install 100 streetlights in each ward wherever there are dark spots.Reacting to the final budget estimates, leader of opposition in the EDMC and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) councillor Manoj Tyagi said, “It is not a people friendly budget as there is no new public oriented announcement. They have also not announced new proposals to boost EDMC’s revenue. Blaming the AAP government is wrong as there are no dues for the government to clear. Instead of eying funds from the government, the BJP-ruled civic body should make efforts to increase its revenue.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/no-new-taxes-in-edmc-budget-more-properties-to-come-under-tax-ambit-to-boost-revenue-101612980488006.html
11-02-2021||Other||DDA allocates ₹3,500cr for infra projects in next year’s budget||The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) has allocated over ₹3,500 crore to infrastructure projects with a special focus on environment in its budget for the next financial year. The budget for 2021-22 was approved on Wednesday in a meeting chaired by Delhi lieutenant governor Anil Baijal.The DDA, which already has more than 35,000 flats in various stages of constructions, especially in three sub-cities ---Narela, Dwarka and Rohini— has decided to develop civic infrastructure in a big way in the upcoming year.For this, the DDA has decided to spend ₹2,326 crore on land development and civic infrastructure such as roads, sewerage, water supply, power lines and drainage, mainly in the three sub-cities of Narela, Dwarka and Rohini.DDA officials said that of the three sub-cities, special focus will be on Narela, where a majority of its new flats are located. DDA has been struggling to sell its flats in Narela mainly due to its poor connectivity with the rest of the city, said a senior official.The DDA has decided to pay ₹1,000 crore, in a phased manner, to the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) for the construction of Rithala-Bawana-Narela corridor, which is going to be the first metrolite corridor developed by DMRC in the city. The DDA has written to DMRC in this regard last year.Last year, the DDA wrote to DMRC to rework the alignment for its Phase 4’s Rithala-Narela line—one of the two metrolite projects in Delhi—to synchronise it with the development proposed under the ambitious land pooling policy.“We will pay ₹1,000 crore for the project. We have allocated ₹400 crore in next year’s budget for the Metro project. We are focusing on developing Narela in a big way. A concept plan for the development of land parcels in Narela is being prepared by our consultant. The report will be ready by next month,” said a senior DDA official.Another major road transport project for which DDA will pay for is the development of Urban Extension Road-II, which will connect four national highways and provide seamless access between north and north-west Delhi to IGI airport.NHAI, which is constructing the 75km long stretch, had asked DDA to pay for the viability gap funding worth ₹4,000 crore.In its ₹6,738 crore, DDA has allocated ₹500 crore for construction of city’s first Transit-Oriented Development (TOD) project at Karkardooma, spread over 30 acres. The project is aimed at integrated development, including housing, commercial and office complexes, around the Metro station.The DDA has allocated ₹280 crore for the development of the Centre’s ambitious project to develop Bharat Vandana park, which will have replicas of monuments from across the country.While the work on the rejuvenation and restoration of river Yamuna floodplain is going on, DDA has allocated ₹40 crore to revive 41 water bodies in the city.In the coming year, the DDA will start the construction work of four sports complexes—three in Dwarka and one in Rohini—and a golf course in Dwarka, for which ₹400 crore has been allotted.The DDA has allocated ₹1,100 crore for housing projects, which mostly includes projects related to slum redevelopment.AK Jain, former planning commission, “The focus on civic and transport infrastructure is a good move. Narela should be developed as a sustainable, carbon-neutral, smart city. The biggest problem is lack of connectivity with the rest of the city. With DDA agreeing to pay for Metro facility, the area will benefit from it. There is a need to have a comprehensive plan prepared for Narela.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ddaallocates-rs-3-500cr-for-infra-projects-in-next-year-s-budget-special-focus-on-narela-101612980486724.html
11-02-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s fight against pollution set to get smarter||The Delhi government will start in six-seven months its first source apportionment project and real-time monitoring of pollution, tools which will be employed to make better strategies to curb air pollution in Delhi.Source apportionment is the practice of deriving information about pollution sources and the amount they contribute to ambient air pollution levels.The new model was finalised after a meeting on Tuesday between Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and a team of scientists from IIT-Kanpur, IIT-Delhi and The Energy Resources Institute (TERI). The scientists made a presentation before the chief minister and said that the new system will not just provide data on the concentration of PM 2.5 (ultrafine particulate matter with diameter less than 2.5 micrometres) in the air, but will also give information on the constituents of these fine particles, a first for the national capital.In a statement issued on Wednesday, the Delhi government said, “Source apportionment project in Delhi, along with setting up of an advanced monitoring system of real-time pollution sources will help in monitoring sources and allow Delhi government to take immediate action against these sources.”According to a Swiss based group, IQ AirVisual, Delhi was listed as the world’s most polluted capital city for the second straight year in 2019. The study measured the concentration of hazardous PM2.5, particles that are less than 2.5 microns in diameter and can be carried deep into the lungs, as higher PM2.5 levels could cause deadly diseases, including cancer and cardiac problems. Every winter, the city’s air turns toxic with the air quality mark reaching emergency levels on several days.Explaining the new model, scientists involved with the project said the collection and assessment of data will be done at two levels -- through a ‘super site’ and through ‘mobile air labs’.Advanced air quality monitoring equipment will be set up at the ‘super site’ in different locations where hourly data for pollutants will be recorded. Scientists said these sites will not only provide data on levels of PM 2.5 in that location at any given point of time but will also give details of the composition of ultrafine particles, using which the exact source of pollution can be traced.“These ‘super sites’ will help authorities act immediately against the sources. Apart from short-term action, the recordings will facilitate long-term analysis, helping agencies draw up policies. For instance, the agencies will know which pollution sources are consistently contributing to the pollution levels in an area and action can be taken to tackle it permanently,” said Mukesh Sharma, professor (department of civil engineering), IIT-Kanpur, who led the team of scientists during the meeting with Kejriwal.“Daily variations can depend on temporary things like construction activities or high traffic movement but if it is persistently contributing to the poor air quality in an area then solutions need to be drawn,” Sharma added.Currently, Delhi Pollution Control Committee’s (DPCC) air quality monitoring stations provide hourly average data on PM 2.5 and PM 10 levels. The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) last year started real-time monitoring at 13 pollution hot spots.At a more micro level, the scientists are also developing ‘mobile air labs’, which will move around the city and record pollution levels and specific sources at a particular period of time.Sumit Sharma, director, earth science and climate change division, TERI, who is also involved with the project, said air quality models will also be used to record details such as from where the pollution is coming and what could be the strategies to control it.“The Delhi government told us very clearly that they have source apportionment studies available with them, but those studies are static studies giving details for a particular period of time. They (government) wanted daily and hourly data of emissions and which sources are contributing to these levels, using which effective strategies can be made to control it,” Sharma said.A senior DPCC official said they have enlisted some recommendations before the team of scientists to tailor-make the technology for Delhi. “We will further improve the system but we can say for sure that this technology will help us monitor pollution sources more effectively,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhis-fight-against-pollution-set-to-get-smarter-101612980428631.html
11-02-2021||Chandigarh||No tax for taxis, autos entering Haryana from Delhi||The Haryana cabinet on Wednesday decided to exempt from motor vehicle tax (MVT) auto rickshaws as well as taxis operating within National Capital Region (NCR) as per contract carriage permit issued by the NCR states.The new rule will mean no tax being charged from such vehicles of other NCR States having contract carriage permits under the NCR reciprocal common transport agreement while entering and operating in Haryana.This decision is expected to help unrestricted and seamless travel of taxis and auto rickshaws in the NCR states. This will also provide better and efficient transport services to the general public in the NCR, an official spokesperson from the transport department said.This decision was taken in the cabinet meeting held under the chairmanship of chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar here on Wednesday.At present auto rickshaws and taxis registered in Haryana and having contract carriage permits under the NCR reciprocal common transport agreement are not required to pay tax while entering and operating in the NCR states --other than Haryana-- such as Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and NCT of Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/no-tax-for-taxis-autos-entering-haryana-from-delhi-101612980427489.html
11-02-2021||Delhi||Physical meetings between prisoners and lawyers, family have restarted, HC told||The Delhi government on Wednesday told the Delhi high court that it has resumed physical meetings of prisoners with their family members and lawyer since this month.The submission was made before a bench of Justice Siddharth Mridul and Justice Anup J Bhambhani while hearing a plea by gangster Neeraj Bawana, who had sought resumption of the bi-weekly physical legal interviews as well as physical family member visits, as per the jail manual.Currently, family members are allowed to meet prisoners once a fortnight and bi-weekly virtual legal interviews are allowed in the prison in wake of the Covid-19 pandemic.The plea filed through advocate Rudro Chatterjee and Yashovardhan Oza, has said that while the Delhi government has eased almost all other general restrictions imposed during the lockdown and has even thrown open cinema halls and swimming pools, it was yet to resume the physical meetings for prisoners in jails.Advocate Chatterjee said that even schools and universities have been re-opened and directions have also been passed for physical production of the accused in courts from custody.Advocate Rahul Mehra, standing counsel of the Delhi government (criminal), and advocate Chaitanya Gosain, told the court that the government had resumed both physical meetings with family and lawyers and issued notification in this regard on February 6 and February 8.The court, while recording the statement of Mehra, disposed of the plea after Bawana’s counsel said that he was satisfied with the government’s submission.During the hearing, the court also remarked that when everything including movie halls has been thrown open then why the prisoners lodged in the jails should be deprived of physical meetings.Physical meetings have been stopped in jails across the city from March 25 last year after the Covid-19 pandemic swept through the country. It was later partially resumed where an inmate was allowed to meet his family physically once in a fortnight.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/physical-meetings-between-prisoners-and-lawyers-family-have-restarted-hc-told-101612980428060.html
11-02-2021||Delhi||Plea before HC seeks ‘independent probe’ into death of man during tractor rally||The Delhi high court on Thursday will hear a plea seeking an independent court-monitored probe into the death of Navreet Singh, a 25-year-old farmer, who had died allegedly due to the overturning of a tractor during the farmers’ rally on January 26.The petition filed by Hardeep Singh, grandfather of the deceased, said the Delhi Police had falsely declared Navreet’s death as “accidental”, without fairly investigating the cause of death.The plea filed through advocates Vrinda Grover and Soutik Banerjee also said that various medical/forensic experts, who reviewed the description of injuries in the post-mortem report, have independently made statements opining that the injuries are consistent with ante-mortem firearm /gunshot wounds, and that the said injuries could not have resulted from the overturning of a tractor.The petition said the grandfather had sufficient reason to mistrust the police and not accept the “hasty and unverified conclusion in the death of his grandson” as no investigation was conducted in the case.It also said the police’s version was unreliable as they have already registered an FIR against Congress MP Shashi Tharoor and some journalists for tweeting that Navreet had died of a gunshot wound. The petition said tha when the incident had happened, the police had shown complete apathy; they did not provide Navreet any help or medical aid and instead kept firing tear gas shells to disperse the crowd.The plea sought that the matter be investigated by police officers who are “independent, professional and impartial”.Navreet was the only protester to die during the farmers’ tractor rally on Republic Day after the police clashed with thousands of protesting farmers who had reached ITO from the Ghazipur border. Many of the protesters also reached the Red Fort and hoisted a religious flag there. Several protesters and police personnel were injured in the violence that day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/plea-before-hc-seeks-independent-probe-into-death-of-man-during-tractor-rally-101612980426786.html
11-02-2021||Delhi||SC stays HC order directing schools to give free gadgets to poor students||The Supreme Court on Wednesday stayed a Delhi high court order that had directed private and government schools to provide electronic gadgets to poor students for online classes and to get the cost of equipment reimbursed from the Delhi government, under the Right to Education (RTE) Act.The high court directions had come on a PIL filed by NGO, Justice for All. The petitioner had prayed that a free laptop or mobile phone with high-speed internet be provided to students of EWS/disadvantaged groups who could not attend the virtual classes for want of these gadgets, unlike their well-off counterparts. The petitioners had argued that financial barrier should not be an impediment to the goal of right to free education as guaranteed by the RTE Act.The high court decision of September 18, 2020, was challenged by the Delhi government and the Central government before the Supreme Court.On Wednesday, issuing notice to the NGO Justice For All, on the two pleas, a three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice SA Bobde said, “In the meantime, there shall be a stay on the operation of the impugned order of the high court.”Senior advocate Vikas Singh, who appeared for the Delhi government, told the apex court that the government was already reeling under a fiscal stress created by the pandemic. The high court decision added to that burden, Singh said. He also pointed out that the order required to be stayed as private, unaided schools were given the freedom to recover the amount spent from the Delhi government.The bench, also comprising justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, said, “We realise that it will be an additional burden.”The high court order had said, “Elementary education is now a fundamental human right as well as an enabling right and, every child, irrespective of his/her financial status is guaranteed the right to free and compulsory education.” It went on to direct private unaided schools and government schools such as the Kendriya Vidyalayas to supply gadgets or equipment of optimum configuration as well as internet packages to EWS/DG students to enable them access online classes.The order noted that Section 8(d) of the RTE Act put an obligation on the state to provide infrastructure, including learning equipment, to children. The court further held that the digital equipment should be provided free of cost to students and the cost for the same would be reimbursed by the state in accordance with Section 12(2) of the RTE Act.Terming the divide created among students by the lack of digital equipment as “digital apartheid”, the high court even went on to advise the Central government to seriously consider investing in digital literacy and infrastructure and to increase its education budget from the current spend of 4.43% of the gross domestic product (GDP).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/supreme-court-stays-hc-order-directing-schools-to-give-free-gadgets-to-poor-students-claim-cost-from-delhi-govt-101612980308979.html
11-02-2021||World||Europe's oldest person celebrates 117th birthday after beating Covid-19||Europe's oldest person, French nun Sister Andre, celebrated her 117th birthday on Thursday with a cake and a prayer after shrugging off the coronavirus just weeks earlier.Sister Andre, who lived through the Spanish flu more than a century ago, said the day had brought her immense joy."I met all those that I loved and thanked God for giving them to me," said Lucile Randon, who took the name of Sister Andre when she joined a Catholic charitable order in 1944.After a mass in her nursing home's private chapel, Sister Andre sat serenely in her wheelchair, her hands clasped tight, as she received a blessing from the bishop of Toulon.Covid-19 restrictions meant family were unable to visit the blind but spirited nun. President Emmanuel Macron's office were among the callers who wished her well.Born on Feb. 11, 1904, Sister Andre has witnessed two global pandemics. She was a young teenager when the Spanish flu struck, infecting an estimated one third of the world's population between 1918 and 1920.Her brother died, one of at least 50 million lives lost during that pandemic, but she escaped infection.Sister Andre tested positive for coronavirus on Jan. 16 but displayed no symptoms."No, I wasn’t scared because I wasn’t scared to die ... I’m happy to be with you, but I would wish to be somewhere else – join my big brother and my grandfather and my grandmother," she told BFM TV earlier this week.Sister Andre is the world's second-oldest living person according to the Gerontology Research Group. The oldest is Japan's Kane Tanaka, who is 118.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/europes-oldest-person-celebrates-117th-birthday-after-beating-covid19-101613066687422.html
11-02-2021||World||Democrats seek to show Trump was indifferent to Capitol assault||House prosecutors are completing their case in Donald Trump’s impeachment trial by focusing on what they say is the former president’s lack of remorse over the Jan. 6 storming of the US Capitol and his lack of concern for Vice President Mike Pence and others put at risk.Democrats began their presentation during the third day of the trial focusing on the words of the insurrectionists, which House managers said show they were following the marching orders of Trump.“Their own statements before, during and after the attack make clear the attack was done for Donald Trump, at his instructions and to fulfill his wishes,” said Representative Diana DeGette, one of the nine House managers. “They truly believed that the whole intrusion was at the president’s orders.”Also Read | Biden says phone call with Xi Jinping lasted two hoursThe House managers intend to follow Wednesday’s stunning video footage of the Capitol’s ransacking by applying that and other evidence to the legal issues that apply in a constitutional impeachment, according to aides who briefed reporters. Trump’s defense will offer their arguments on Friday and may only need one day, which could lead to the trial finishing on Saturday.In remarks to Politico on Wednesday night, Alabama Senator Tommy Tuberville recounted that a previously reported call he received that day from Trump occurred as rioters were moving toward the Senate, and he told Trump that Pence had just been evacuated. Trump was tweeting criticism of Pence for refusing to illegally reject Electoral College votes being counted before the riot.President Joe Biden, who has avoided comment on the impeachment proceedings, said in brief comments to reporters Thursday that “some minds may have been changed” by the vivid case presented by House impeachment managers.“I, like other Americans, watched the news. I didn’t watch any of the hearing live,” Biden said. “The Senate has a very important job to complete and I think -- my guess is -- some minds may have been changed but I don’t know.”Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, one of Trump’s closest allies in Congress, suggested the prosecution was futile, with most of his Republican colleagues already decided against conviction. He said he had assured the former president “the case is over” and “it’s just a matter of getting the final verdict.”House managers used the second day of Trump’s impeachment trial Wednesday to detail a months-long campaign by the former president to stoke hatred and encourage violence over the election results that they said culminated in the mob attack on the US Capitol that he then did little to stop.Using previously unreleased videos and audio, the Democratic lawmakers vividly showed senators how close the rioters came to reaching them, as well as Pence. Senators in the chamber listened in rapt silence as the recordings played.The impeachment managers depicted the assault as not only foreseeable but the intended result of a multitude of actions calculated to incite Trump’s followers. The strategy appeared designed to rebut defense efforts to cast his fiery speech before the assault as normal political hyperbole and to persuade the public that his actions were premeditated and cynical.The step-by-step timeline House impeachment managers offered set the Jan. 6 violence in the context of months of Trump tweets inflaming tensions even before the election. It was, they said, a “big lie” of baseless claims of election fraud, armed intimidation of state and local election officials, and violence at demonstrations in Washington in December. They stressed Trump’s role in promoting the rally on the day of the electoral count, the timing of his speech just ahead of the congressional session and his remarks pointing the crowd toward the Capitol.Also Read | Chilling video clips of Capitol siege aired at Trump impeachment trial“This was never about one speech,” Representative Eric Swalwell of California, one of the nine House impeachment managers, said. “He built this mob over many months with repeated messaging until they believed that they’d been robbed of their vote and they would do anything to stop the certification.”Delegate Stacey Plaskett of the US Virgin Islands, another impeachment manager, said the people who laid siege to the Capitol “did it because Donald Trump sent them on this mission” to stop the peaceful transfer of power.Democrats portrayed Trump as indifferent to the harrowing ordeal his own vice president, lawmakers and police were undergoing, even as the violence and mayhem was broadcast live on television, and did nothing to protect lawmakers and others at the Capitol for hours, failing to call in the National Guard. They highlighted news reports quoting associates saying that the former president was initially “delighted” by the attack.“Senators, you’ve seen all the evidence so far, and this is clear: on Jan. 6, President Trump left everyone in this Capitol for dead,” Texas Representative Joaquin Castro said.The dramatic presentation may have more impact on public opinion than the eventual verdict in the trial. The odds still are against 17 Republicans joining with Democrats and independents to form the two-thirds majority of the Senate necessary to convict Trump. Only six Republicans voted with Democrats on Tuesday to proceed with the trial.Texas Republican Senator Ted Cruz, who was among the GOP lawmakers who voted to block certification of electoral votes from two states on the day of the attack, called the footage shown in the trial “horrific.” But he said the House impeachment managers didn’t connect the violence to Trump.“They spent a great deal of time focusing on the horrific acts of violence that were played out by the criminals, but the language from the president doesn’t come close to meeting the legal standard for incitement,” Cruz told reporters.Still, several Republicans acknowledged the power of the House Democrats’ arguments.“They had a strong presentation put together in a way that I think makes it very compelling,” said Senator John Thune of South Dakota, the No. 2 GOP leader, said. He didn’t rule out voting for conviction, saying he would listen to both sides “and draw conclusions when it’s all done.”Trump lawyer Bruce Castor told reporters as he left the Capitol Wednesday night that ”we didn’t learn anything today that we didn’t already know.”“Yesterday, we said we didn’t dispute that the breach of the Capitol is a terrible thing, and that mob violence is something that President Trump abhors,” he said, adding, “I wonder why we sat through eight hours of videos that aren’t under dispute.”Trump’s team intends to rely heavily on his use of the words “peacefully and patriotically” at one point in the Jan. 6 speech as part of his defense against the impeachment charge of incitement, according to people familiar with the effort. They also plan to show videos of prominent Democrats using similar rhetoric about fighting to argue Trump is being subjected to a double standard.Representative Madeleine Dean, another impeachment manager, anticipating the argument, said that Trump only used the word “peacefully” once in the 11,000-word speech, while urging on followers with the words “fight” or “fighting” 20 times.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/democrats-seek-to-show-trump-was-indifferent-to-capitol-assault-101613066068895.html
11-02-2021||World||Chilling video clips of Capitol siege aired at Trump impeachment trial||New video footage presented on Wednesday by the House impeachment managers showed in chilling detail how close the January 6 pro-Trump rioters had come to lawmakers inside the US Capitol.Video and audio clips also showed police officers had begged for help, overwhelmed by the surging and violent rioters.The rioters were seen roaming the hallways of the Capitol building looking for top officials. They called out for former vice-president Mike Pence — to “hang” him — and House Speaker Nancy Pelosi — “Nancy? Where are you, Nancy?”“You were just 58 steps away” from that mob, Representative Eric Swalwell, one of the nine House impeachment managers, told the senators on Day 2 of the impeachment trial of former President Donald Trump.Majority leader Chuck Schumer, a Democrat, was seen being led up a ramp by his security detail in one clip from January 6, which in the next instant, showed them hurrying back the same way, surprised perhaps by the incoming mob.In another video clip, Senator Mitt Romney, a Republican, and an aide were seen being redirected by a Capitol police officer. They were, in fact, headed in the direction of the incoming mob. “I was very fortunate indeed that Officer (Eugene) Goodman was there to get me in the right direction,” Romney told reporters later.Another video showed former vice-president Pence and his family, who had accompanied him to the US Capitol that day, being led to safety down a stairwell.House managers used a mix of footage from old videos and those from US Capitol’s security cameras that had not been seen before. They played without sound, slogans and profanities that have come to make up the soundtrack for all other videos seen thus far.On day two of Trump’s trial, the House managers made their case meticulously, showing how the former president had incited his supporters in the weeks leading up to the insurrection, urged them to march to the Capitol, riled them up against Pence and then refused to stop them.“Senators, you’ve seen all the evidence so far,” Representative Joaquin Castro, one of the impeachment managers, said towards the end of the eight-hour long presentation. “And this is clear: On January 6th, President Trump left everyone in this Capitol for dead.”Though chilling and detailed, it wasn’t clear if the House managers’ presentation had persuaded enough Republicans to convict Trump. They will try again, on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chilling-video-clips-of-capitol-siege-aired-at-trump-impeachment-trial-101613065398629.html
11-02-2021||World||BBC World News barred from airing in China: Regulator||British television channel BBC World News has been barred from airing in China, the National Radio and Television Administration said on Friday, a week after Britain's media regulator revoked Chinese state television's broadcast licence.In a statement issued on the stroke of the Lunar New Year, the administration said an investigation found BBC World News' China-related reports had "seriously violated" regulations, including that news should be "truthful and fair," had harmed China's national interests and undermined national unity.The channel therefore does not meet requirements for foreign channels broadcasting in China and its application to air for another year will not be accepted, it added.The BBC did not immediately respond to a request for comment.On Feb. 4, British media regulator Ofcom revoked China Global Television Network's (CGTN) licence to broadcast in the United Kingdom after an investigation found the licence was wrongfully held by Star China Media Ltd.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/bbc-world-news-barred-from-airing-in-china-regulator-101613062992657.html
11-02-2021||World||At least 5 killed in massive crash on icy Texas interstate||At least five people were killed Thursday in a massive crash involving 75 to 100 vehicles on an icy Texas interstate, police said, as a winter storm dropped freezing rain, sleet and snow on parts of the U.S.The number of injured was still unknown as police were still at working the accident on Interstate 35 near downtown Fort Worth, police said. Police set up a reunification center for family members at a community center.Farther south, in Austin, more than two dozen vehicles were involved in a pileup on an icy road, and one person was injured, emergency officials said.Elsewhere, ice storm warnings were in effect from Arkansas to Kentucky, while another winter storm was predicted to bring snow to Mid-Atlantic states, the National Weather Service said.More than 125,000 homes and businesses were without electricity Thursday morning, largely in Kentucky and West Virginia, according to the website poweroutage.us, which tracks utility reports.Meanwhile, officials in central Kentucky were urging people to stay home due to icy conditions.Kentucky Gov. Andy Beshear said state offices would be closed due to the weather. He declared a state of emergency, which he said would free up funding and help agencies coordinate as they respond to reports of slick roads and downed power lines.Crews were responding to numerous calls of downed icy tree limbs and power lines, Lexington police said in a tweet that urged people not to travel “unless absolutely necessary.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/at-least-5-killed-in-massive-crash-on-icy-texas-interstate-101613062221058.html
11-02-2021||World||Was on phone call with Xi Jinping for two straight hours: Joe Biden||President Joe Biden said Thursday that his first phone call with Chinese leader Xi Jinping since taking office lasted two hours."Last night, I was in the phone for two straight hours with Xi Jinping," Biden told reporters -- an unusually long interaction for a US president, with whom even face-to-face meetings rarely stretch beyond an hour.Biden warned afterwards that if the United States doesn't "get moving" on China policy, "they're going to eat our lunch."He challenged Xi on human rights, trade and regional muscle-flexing during the call, which aimed at setting the tone for the US-China relationship.Beijing has tested US ties since Xi came to power, and under former president Donald Trump found itself on the receiving end of trade tariffs as relations frayed.Biden -- who met Xi during his time as vice president under Barack Obama -- is under pressure to maintain Trump's stance.Earlier, the White House said the president "underscored his fundamental concerns about Beijing's coercive and unfair economic practices, crackdown in Hong Kong, human rights abuses in Xinjiang, and increasingly assertive actions in the region, including toward Taiwan," during the call.The two leaders also spoke about the Covid-19 pandemic, climate change and weapons proliferation, the White House said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-says-phone-call-with-xi-jinping-lasted-two-hours-101613061682142.html
11-02-2021||World||Iran’s last atomic gambit could make crafting a bomb harder||Iran’s decision to cast its stockpile of 20% enriched uranium into metal for a research reactor reduces the risk that the Islamic Republic will move swiftly to build an atomic bomb, according to Robert Kelley, a US nuclear-weapons engineer and former senior inspections official.The International Atomic Energy Agency reported late Wednesday that Iran took another step to bring the country further out of compliance with its 2015 nuclear agreement with world powers. The country produced 3.6 grams of natural uranium metal -- about the size of an eraser on a pencil -- at its fuel plate fabrication facility on Feb. 6, according to a restricted two-page document seen by Bloomberg.The move witnessed by IAEA inspectors is the first toward fuel production at a facility in Esfahan. Iran outlined last month how it will turn its stockpile of 20%-enriched uranium into metal plates for its research reactor, which in turn produces isotopes used for medicine and industry.“They are taking material out of the pipeline,” said Kelley, the former manager of the US Department of Energy’s centrifuge and plutonium metallurgy programs at the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory. “It takes the uranium out of the weapons-usable inventory.”Iran Outlines Bid for Stockpile of 20% Enriched UraniumIran has been ratcheting up pressure since early December, when its parliament passed a law ordering engineers to begin enriching uranium at higher levels and then cast the metal into fuel for the Tehran Research Reactor.But the activities don’t just make reviving the moribund nuclear agreement harder for the Biden administration, which is open to doing so once Iran returns to compliance. They also could make it tougher for Iran -- which wants the US to first lift sanctions imposed by the Trump administration -- to sprint toward weaponization, according to Kelley.Most of Iran’s current enriched-uranium stockpile is held in gaseous form, where it can be run through cascades of centrifuges at short notice. Those machines, which spin at supersonic speeds, separate the uranium-235 isotope required to set off the chain reactions in power plants and bombs. Most nuclear weapons use uranium enriched to 90% purity. Iran’s stockpile is between 3% and 20% enriched.Iran told IAEA inspectors that they intend to mix their uranium metal with silicon in order to produce uranium silicide fuel, a source of energy used in atomic energy for decades that typically takes the form of small pellets.“This is hardly an enabling step for a weapon,” Kelley said. “A uranium-silicon compound is very unsuitable for further enrichment in a centrifuge.”The assessment could give the Biden administration space to engage with Iran as the clock ticks toward the next deadline on Feb. 21 -- the day when IAEA inspectors have been told they’ll have some monitoring powers curtailed unless US sanctions are lifted.“Until that day, Iran continues to be subject to full IAEA monitoring, which allows good insight into Iran’s fuel-cycle activities,” said Andreas Persbo, a nuclear nonproliferation analyst who is research director at the European Leadership Network. Even though casting uranium into metal could complicate a sprint toward a weapon, the message Iran is sending is still troubling.“The Iranians are masters of operating in the gray zone,” Persbo said. “They are hewing to the letter of their safeguards agreement, but it’s clear this isn’t the kind of behavior that is desirable or expected.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/irans-last-atomic-gambit-could-make-crafting-a-bomb-harder-101613060803903.html
11-02-2021||World||Democrats to focus on 'terrible toll' of Capitol riot in Trump impeachment trial||Democrats making the case that Donald Trump should be convicted of inciting the deadly siege at the US Capitol will focus on Thursday on the damage wrought in the rampage and the former president's role in inflaming the rioters.The House of Representatives has charged Trump, a Republican, with inciting an insurrection by exhorting thousands of supporters to march on the Capitol on Jan. 6, the day Congress gathered to certify Democrat Joe Biden's election win.The House managers who are prosecuting the case in the US Senate spent much of Wednesday recounting the events that led to the riot and highlighting the threat to Mike Pence, Trump's vice president.On Thursday, they planned to illustrate the "terrible toll" of the riot and Trump's "role in assembling, inciting and inflaming the insurrectionists," a House aide said.There also will be a focus on Trump's "lack of remorse" during and following the siege, "which is an element in the impeachment calculus," the aide said.Read | QAnon followers believe Trump will return to power on March 4. Here’s whyWhile some Republican senators have said that the House Democrats are presenting their arguments against Trump well, many remained unconvinced Trump should be convicted.Republican Senator Marco Rubio told Fox News that while the Jan. 6 attack was "horrifying," impeachment was not appropriate given that Trump was no longer in office.A senior Senate Republican aide said "the cake is baked," with most of the party's 50 senators opposing conviction.Senators on Wednesday were shown searing security footage of the pro-Trump mob stalking the Capitol hallways chanting "Hang Mike Pence!" and searching for Democratic House Speaker Nancy Pelosi.Previously unseen videos showed the view from inside the Capitol as rioters smashed windows and fought with police, coming within 100 feet (30 m) of the room where Pence was sheltering with his family. The mob had set up a gallows outside.The footage, which also included body-camera views of brutal attacks on Capitol police, showed Pence and lawmakers being hustled to safety steps ahead of an advancing mob. The attack on the Capitol resulted in the deaths of five people, including a police officer.Trump had repeatedly said Pence had the power to stop the certification of the election results, even though he did not."The mob was looking for Vice President Pence," Representative Stacey Plaskett said, narrating footage that showed the crowd threatening Pence and searching for Pelosi."President Trump put a target on their backs and then his mob broke into the Capitol to hunt them down," she said.Democratic Representative Joaquin Castro pointed out that during the rampage, Trump tweeted that Pence "didn't have the courage to do what should have been done." A video showed rioters spreading word of Trump's tweet to one another on bullhorns.Read | Graphic riot videos not enough to convict Trump, some Republican senators sayPlanted the seedsHouse managers said Trump had planted the seeds for the riot by encouraging violence and making false claims the election was stolen long before Jan. 6. They also said he did little to put an end to the violence as it spiraled out of control, despite pleas from many Republicans to ask his supporters to stop.Democrats face a difficult task in securing a Senate conviction and barring Trump from ever again seeking public office. A two-thirds majority in the Senate must vote to convict, which means at least 17 Republicans would have to defy Trump and his continued popularity among Republican voters.On Tuesday, the Senate voted largely along party lines that the impeachment trial could move ahead even though Trump's term ended on Jan. 20. Six of 50 Republican senators broke with their caucus to side with Democrats."I am holding out hope that the forcefulness of this argument will still sway some. I believe there are more Republicans that are open to conviction than is publicly clear at this point," said Democratic Senator Chris Coons.Trump's lawyers, who will have 16 hours to deliver their defense, said the video and other evidence presented by Democrats had not made the case for his culpability."We know a mob breached the Capitol and wreaked havoc in the building. I’m waiting for them to connect that up to President Trump and so far that hasn't happened," said Trump lawyer Bruce Castor.The Senate trial could conclude as early as Saturday or Sunday, according to a senior Senate aide.Trump is the first US president to be impeached twice and the first to face trial after leaving office. His first impeachment trial, which stemmed from his efforts to pressure Ukraine to investigate Biden, ended in an acquittal a year ago in what was then a Republican-controlled Senate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/democrats-to-focus-on-terrible-toll-of-capitol-riot-in-trump-impeachment-trial-101613060087072.html
11-02-2021||World||KKK member sentenced for driving into crowd of Black Lives Matter protesters||An acknowledged member of the Ku Klux Klan was sentenced Tuesday to three years and eight months in prison on charges he drove his pickup truck through a crowd of Black Lives Matter protesters near Virginia's capital city.Harry Rogers, 37, of Hanover County, was convicted of three counts of assault and battery, one count of destruction of property and one count of failure to stop at the scene of an accident in connection with the attack last June in Henrico County near Richmond, news outlets reported.Rogers pleaded guilty Feb. 5 and had three felony charges and a fourth misdemeanor assault count dropped. He was originally sentenced to six years in jail in August, but he appealed that conviction.Authorities said Rogers struck at least two people after driving over a median near a Confederate monument and then through a group of protestors in a roadway. Nobody was seriously injured, though officials said he ran over a man’s toe and twice hit a woman who stepped in front of the truck.Defense attorney George Townsend argued that the protesters who were struck put themselves into the vehicle’s way. Townsend had previously said Rogers was a member of the KKK.Before he was arrested, Rogers boasted about the incident on social media.“This Chevrolet 2500 went up on the curb and through the protest,” he said on a Facebook live video played in court. “They started scattering like (expletive) cockroaches ... It’s kind of funny if you ask me.”He told the court on Tuesday that he was sorry for his actions, and he said he “didn’t make the right decisions that day,” news outlets reported.The incident came last year amid nationwide protests against racial injustice and law enforcement treatment of minorities after the police custody death of George Floyd in Minneapolis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/kkk-member-sentenced-for-driving-into-crowd-of-black-lives-matter-protesters-101613055535154.html
11-02-2021||World||Britain considering sanctions on Myanmar after coup: UK foreign secretary Raab||Britain is "urgently looking" at further measures it can apply to Myanmar under its own sanctions regime, said its foreign secretary Dominic Raab on Thursday."The international community will not accept the coup in Myanmar and we will hold those responsible to account," Raab said on Twitter, adding that he welcomed steps taken by the United States which "send a strong message to the military regime".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/britain-considering-sanctions-on-myanmar-after-coup-uk-foreign-secretary-raab-101613049046198.html
11-02-2021||World||British man freed in Indonesia after serving sentence for death of policeman||A British man jailed for his role in the death of an Indonesian policeman in 2016 on a beach in Bali was released on Thursday after serving his sentence.David Taylor, 38, was jailed in March 2017 together with his Australian girlfriend, Sara Connor, over the death of traffic policeman Wayan Sudarsa, whose body was found on the island's popular Kuta beach with neck and head wounds.Taylor left Bali's Kerobokan jail dressed in a black T-shirt and with dark glasses and a mask.He did not comment to reporters before getting into a waiting car, but the head of the prison, Fikri Jaya Soebing confirmed his release.Fikri said he had been granted 18 months and 15 days of remission.Taylor is now expected to be taken to the airport and deported to Britain.Taylor and Connor were tried separately and had told the court a fight had broken out with the policeman over Connor's missing purse.They were charged with assault leading to death and Taylor was sentenced to six years in prison and Connor to four years.Connor was granted an early release last year due to good behaviour.Taylor's lawyer said after his sentencing his client accepted the ruling.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/british-man-freed-in-indonesia-after-serving-sentence-for-death-of-policeman-101613049671206.html
11-02-2021||World||Digital siege: Internet cuts become favored tool of regimes||When army generals in Myanmar staged a coup last week, they briefly cut internet access in an apparent attempt to stymie protests. In Uganda, residents couldn't use Facebook, Twitter and other social media for weeks after a recent election. And in Ethiopia's northern Tigray region, the internet has been down for months amid a wider conflict.Around the world, shutting down the internet has become an increasingly popular tactic of repressive and authoritarian regimes and some illiberal democracies. Digital rights groups say governments use them to stifle dissent, silence opposition voices or cover up human rights abuses, raising concerns about restricting freedom of speech.Regimes often cut online access in response to protests or civil unrest, particularly around elections, as they try to keep their grip on power by restricting the flow of information, researchers say. It's the digital equivalent of seizing control of the local TV and radio station that was part of the pre-internet playbook for despots.“Internet shutdowns have been massively underreported or misreported over the years,” said Alp Toker, founder of internet monitoring organization Netblocks. The world is “starting to realize what’s happening," as documenting efforts like his expand, he said.Last year there were 93 major internet shutdowns in 21 countries, according to a report by Top10VPN, a UK-based digital privacy and security research group. The list doesn't include places like China and North Korea, where the government tightly controls or restricts the internet. Shutdowns can range from all-encompassing internet blackouts to blocking social media platforms or severely throttling internet speeds, the report said.Internet cuts have political, economic, and humanitarian costs, experts warned. The effects are exacerbated by Covid-19 lockdowns that are forcing activities like school classes online.The shutdowns play into a wider battle over control of the internet. In the West, efforts to rein in social media platforms have raised competing concerns about restricting free speech and limiting harmful information, the latter sometimes used by authoritarian regimes to justify clampdowns.In Myanmar, internet access was cut for about 24 hours last weekend, in an apparent bid to head off protests against the army's seizing of power and the detention of leader Aung San Suu Kyi and her allies. By Sunday afternoon, internet users reported data access on their mobile phones was suddenly restored.Norway's Telenor ASA, which runs one of Myanmar's main wireless carriers, said the communications ministry cited “circulation of fake news, stability of the nation and interest of the public” in ordering operators to temporarily shut down networks.Telenor said it had to comply with local laws. “We deeply regret the impact the shutdown has on the people in Myanmar,” it said.It's a familiar move by Myanmar's government, which carried out one of the world's longest internet shutdowns in Rakhine and Chin states aimed at disrupting operations of an armed ethnic group. The cutoff began in June 2019 and was only lifted on Feb. 3.Another long-running internet shutdown is in Ethiopia’s Tigray region, which has been choked off since fighting started in early November -- the latest in a series of outages with no sign of service returning anytime soon. That’s made it challenging to know how many civilians have been killed, to what extent fighting continues or whether people are starting to die of starvation, as some have warned.In Uganda, restrictions on social media sites including Twitter, Facebook and YouTube took effect ahead of a Jan. 14 presidential election, along with a total internet blackout on the eve of polling. Authorities said it was to prevent opposition supporters from organizing potentially dangerous street protests.The social media curbs were lifted Wednesday, except for Facebook. Longtime leader Yoweri Museveni, who was facing his biggest challenge to power yet from popular singer-turned-lawmaker Bobi Wine, had been angered by the social network's removal before the vote of what it said were fake accounts linked to his party.In Belarus, the internet went down for 61 hours after the Aug. 9 presidential election, marking Europe's first internet blackout. Service was cut after election results handed victory to authoritarian President Alexander Lukashenko but the vote was widely seen as rigged and sparked enormous protests. Access remained unstable for months, particularly around weekend protests, when mobile internet service repeatedly went down.The risk is that regular shutdowns become normalized, said Toker.“You get a kind of Pavlovian response where both the public in the country and the wider international community will become desensitized to these shutdowns,” he said, calling it the “greatest risk to our collective freedom in the digital age.”Internet shutdowns are also common in democratic India, where Prime Minister Narendra Modi's government has increasingly used them to target his political opposition. His Hindu nationalist government has ordered hundreds of regional shutdowns, according to a tracking site.Most have been in disputed Kashmir, which endured an 18-month blockade of high-speed mobile service that ended last week. But they've also been deployed elsewhere for anti-government demonstrations, including massive farmers’ protests that have rattled Modi's administration."It used to be authoritarian governments who did this, but we are seeing the practice become more common in democracies such as India," said Darrell West, a vice president of governance studies at the Brookings Institution who has studied internet shutdowns.“The risk is that once one democracy does it, others will be tempted to do the same thing. It may start at the local level to deal with unrest, but then spread more broadly."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/digital-siege-internet-cuts-become-favored-tool-of-regimes-101613053726992.html
11-02-2021||World||Germany to restrict travel with neighbours over virus mutations||Germany plans to impose restrictions on travel from Austria and the Czech Republic over concerns about aggressive mutations of the coronavirus, potentially disrupting cross-country commuters and commerce.The German states of Bavaria and Saxony have asked the federal government to establish border controls with the neighboring countries, Bavarian Premier Markus Soeder said on Thursday.“We think it is necessary that both will be declared mutation areas,” Soeder told reporters in Munich. “This will probably happen.”A meeting is set to be held this afternoon to discuss the move, according to the Bild newspaper. Germany’s interior ministry wasn’t immediately available to comment.Germany is on high alert for fast-spreading strains as it seeks to gradually reopen Europe’s largest economy. Chancellor Angela Merkel warned earlier Thursday that aggressive mutations will gain the upper hand in the country sooner or later, threatening to destroy progress made in containing the pandemic.Under pressure from state leaders, the German leader agreed late Wednesday to loosen some virus restrictions and open a pathway to a return to some semblance of normality after months of stringent curbs.Germany restricts travel from countries with high rates of virus mutations. The list currently includes the UK, Ireland, Brazil and South Africa, according to the RKI public-health institute. If Austria and Czech Republic are added, people coming to Germany would need a negative test before traveling.“You can only enter with a negative test,” said Soeder. “There will be no exceptions.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/germany-to-restrict-travel-with-neighbours-over-virus-mutations-101613052893712.html
11-02-2021||World||Xi Jinping warns Joe Biden, says US-China confrontation disastrous for both||Confrontation between China and the US will be disastrous for both countries and the world, President Xi Jinping has cautioned President Joe Biden in their first phone call since the latter took over the American presidency last month.Biden raised the issues of human rights abuses in Xinjiang, the Hong Kong crackdown and Beijing’s increasing assertiveness on Taiwan during the call, held on the eve of the Lunar New Year, the most important festival in China.Biden tweeted after the phone call: “I told him I will work with China when it benefits the American people.”In a statement, the White House said the president had “underscored his fundamental concerns about Beijing’s coercive and unfair economic practices, crackdown in Hong Kong, human rights abuses in Xinjiang, and increasingly assertive actions in the region, including toward Taiwan”.A statement from China carried by the official news agency, Xinhua, quoted Xi as telling Biden that those issues were China’s internal affairs.“The Taiwan question and issues relating to Hong Kong, Xinjiang, etc are China’s internal affairs and concern China’s sovereignty and territorial integrity, and the US side should respect China’s core interests and act prudently,” Xi told his American counterpart.Xi emphasised that while the two sides may differ on some issues, it is crucial to show mutual respect, treat each other as equals, and properly manage and handle the differences in a constructive fashion.China and the US gain from cooperation and lose from confrontation; cooperation is the only right choice for both sides, he said. “When China and the US work together, they can accomplish a great deal for the good of both countries and the world at large; confrontation between the two countries, however, will definitely be disastrous for both countries and the world,” the Chinese president added.The two sides, he added, should act to conform to the trend of the world, jointly safeguard peace and stability in the Asia-Pacific region, and make historic contributions to promoting world peace and development.Xi and Biden exchanged views on countering the Covid-19 pandemic as well as on the shared challenges of global health security, climate change and the prevention of weapons proliferation.Thursday’s phone call comes in the backdrop of war of words that has broken out between Beijing and Washington over the passage of the US warships through the Taiwan Strait and their presence in the South China Sea - for the first time during the Biden presidency.Four years of Donald Trump’s presidency saw increased tensions between the world powers over a range of issues including disputes in the SCS region and Taiwan.Since Biden took over, the US Navy has dispatched aircraft carrier strike groups in the South China Sea and redeployed the USS Nimitz Carrier strike group from the Central Command area of responsibility to the US Indo-Pacific region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uschina-confrontation-disastrous-for-both-xi-warns-biden-101613050756245.html
11-02-2021||World||Pakistan Supreme Court bars execution of inmates with mental illness||Pakistan's Supreme Court on Wednesday barred the execution of inmates suffering from mental disorder, observing that carrying out the death sentence does not "meet the ends of justice" if a convict was unable to comprehend the rationale behind the punishment.A five-member bench headed by Justice Manzoor Ahmad Malik passed the order on the appeals of mentally ill death-row prisoners- Kanizan Bibi, Imdad Ali and Ghulam Abbas- who have respectively served 30, 18 and 14 years on the death row.The petitioners, who showed symptoms of mental illness, demanded that their sentence be commuted.The court commuted the death sentences of Kanizan Bibi and Imdad Ali to life imprisonment and directed that a fresh mercy petition be filed to the Pakistan President on behalf of Ghulam Abbas.The court observed that carrying out the death sentence does not "meet the ends of justice" if a convict was unable to comprehend the rationale behind the punishment due to a mental illness.It also ordered the Punjab government to shift the accused from prison to the Punjab Institute of Mental Health, Lahore, for treatment and rehabilitation.However, the bench in the judgment clarified that not every mental illness shall automatically qualify for an exemption from carrying out the death sentence."This exemption will be applicable only in that case where a medical board, consisting of mental health professionals, certifies after a thorough examination and evaluation that the condemned prisoner no longer has higher mental functions to appreciate the rationale behind the sentence of death awarded to them," the judgment read.The court also directed the authorities to set up high security forensic mental health facilities at teaching and training mental health institutions. It also asked to change laws to properly define mental illness so that it should not be confused with generic terms like "unsound mind", "lunatic" and "insane".Reacting to the judgement, Justice Project Pakistan, a rights group campaigning for the release of mentally ill inmates, in a statement said, “this is a historic judgment that validates our decade-long struggle to get the courts to recognise mental illness as a mitigating circumstance against the imposition of the death penalty."We are grateful to all the honourable judges on the bench for affirming the rights of the most vulnerable prisoners through explicit recognition of domestic safeguards and international human rights principles,” said Sarah Belal, Executive Director of Justice Project Pakistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistan-supreme-court-bars-execution-of-inmates-with-mental-illness-101613047493324.html
11-02-2021||World||QAnon followers believe Trump will be sworn in as US president on March 4. Here’s why||The Trump International Hotel near the White House has reportedly boosted its tariff for March 4, the date followers of far-right conspiracy theory propagators QAnon believe that former US president Donald Trump will return to power. While the Senate is holding a historic second impeachment trial to convict the former president of “Incitement of Insurrection”, some QAnon believers are busy floating a convoluted conspiracy theory that claims Trump will be inaugurated as the next US president on March 4.The theory finds its roots in ‘sovereign citizen’ movement under which a group of people believe that they are not subject to any government rules or proceedings. The Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) has described sovereign citizen movement as "domestic terrorism" in the US. According to the federal agency, sovereign citizens are anti-government extremists who believe that they don’t have to answer to any government authority, including courts, taxing entities, motor vehicle departments, or law enforcement.“This causes all kinds of problems - and crimes. For example, many sovereign citizens don’t pay their taxes. They hold illegal courts that issue warrants for judges and police officers. They clog up the court system with frivolous lawsuits and liens against public officials to harass them,” says the FBI.Read | Democrats use unreleased videos, Trump’s own words in blaming him for riotWhy are QAnon followers waiting for Trump’s inauguration on March 4?Many members of the so-called sovereign citizens believe that the United States turned into a corporation after a law was enacted in 1871 and the 18th president of the US, Ulysses S Grant, was the last legal commander-in-chief of the country. Some QAnon followers share the unfounded belief that any amendments after the 16th Amendment were invalid because, according to them, there has been no country known as the United States since it turned into a corporation.Prior to 1937, US presidents were inaugurated on March 4 but was changed to January 20 by the 20th amendment. The date has gained significance among “sovereign citizens” and QAnon, a fringe group that has often claimed a threat of a “deep state” against Donald Trump. Michele Anne Tittler, one of the most prominent voices of QAnon, had recently laid out a detailed plan in a TikTok video. Tittler claimed that Trump will be sworn in as the 19th president of the United States on March 4 “under the restored Republic.”"If Biden, Harris, Pence, Pelosi ... are arrested for their crimes before January 20, there will be no one to assume the presidency... If there is no president on January 20, the corporation known as the United States of America will be dissolved. The military will then become the guardians of a nation during the transition. People will then have irrefutable proof that the election was stolen by foreign entities and that Trump was chosen by a landslide," Tittler said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/qanon-followers-believe-trump-will-return-to-power-on-march-4-here-s-why-101613043296299.html
11-02-2021||World||In Israel's largest Arab city, a Nazarene defends Netanyahu||Few Arab politicians in Israel's history have openly flirted with the country's right wing, let alone endorsed its main candidate for prime minister.But Ali Salam, the mayor of Nazareth, says that he sees "no better choice" for Israel's 21% Arab minority than veteran conservative Benjamin 'Bibi' Netanyahu.In the build-up to a fourth election in two years, Salam has hosted Netanyahu in Israel's largest Arab city, disparaged protests against him and actively cheered a split in Israel's main Arab coalition, the Joint List."Bibi, if you ask me, is the best one to continue for another five years," Salam, 69, told Reuters in Nazareth, the city where Jesus grew up, according to Christian tradition.For Netanyahu, the embrace of Salam and divisions among hitherto united Arab parties might help divide the opposition and nudge Israel's complex coalition arithmetic a fraction in his direction, ahead of a March 23 election that polls indicate will be a tight race.The mayor's rhetoric contrasts with other Arab leaders, who have long accused Netanyahu of demonising Arabs.On election day in 2015, Netanyahu urged his voters to turn out, warning that Arabs were flocking to the polls "in droves".In 2019 his party sent monitors equipped with body cameras to polling stations in Arab towns, prompting allegations of voter intimidation.And many Arabs were infuriated by a 2018 law that asserted Israel was the historic homeland of the Jewish people "and they have an exclusive right to national self-determination in it."But as a city leader with no national political ambitions, Salam says his job is to deliver the best for his 110,000 residents.And he lambasts the Arab political establishment which, he says, has failed to bring government investment to Arab communities."Speaking honestly and clearly: Bibi's tenure has brought the strongest improvement of the economic situation in Arab society, ever," Salam said.Salam said he planned to vote for the United Arab List, an Islamist party that split away from the Joint List last week after its leader also advocated, unsuccessfully, that it work with Netanyahu.Unpopular ViewIsrael's Arab minority - Palestinian by heritage, Israeli by citizenship - is mostly descended from the Palestinians who lived under Ottoman and then British colonial rule before staying in Israel after the country's 1948 creation.Ahmad Tibi, a Joint List lawmaker, said Arab leaders embracing Netanyahu were "a joke"."Maybe it's Stockholm Syndrome, to have empathy with that person who kidnapped you, or oppressed you," Tibi said. He believes that Netanyahu "will not (get) a lot of votes, even if he is smiling and laughing more."The debate over whether to work with Netanyahu reflects deep frustration with existing Arab parties, said Asad Ghanem, a professor of political science at Haifa University."The fact that the head of the biggest Arab town in Israel supports Netanyahu, without being afraid to say it, reflects an Arab society in political crisis without an agenda to solve its challenges, (principally) crime and violence," Ghanem said.Netanyahu has also tried to woo Arab voters by pledging 100 million shekels ($30.7 million) to combat violence in Arab towns, and promising to include an Arab minister in his next government.Only 25% of Arabs believe they should cooperate with Netanyahu, according to one poll. But few see a realistic alternative, according to Arik Rudnitzky, of the Israel Democracy Institute."Are you ready to cooperate with any government to achieve your needs, or would you like to wait all your life in the opposition?" Rudnitzky said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/in-israel-s-largest-arab-city-a-nazarene-defends-netanyahu-101613044622110.html
11-02-2021||World||Britain to take much bigger GDP hit from Brexit than the EU, says European Commission||Britain's exit from the European Union (EU) will cost the bloc around 0.5% of economic growth over the next 24 months, but Brexit will be more than four times more painful for the United Kingdom, the European Commission said on Thursday.Britain left the EU at the end of January last year, but kept its full access to the 27-nation bloc's single market until the end of 2020, when it was replaced by a trade agreement."For the EU on average, the exit of the UK from the European Union on Free Trade Agreement terms is estimated to generate an output loss of around 0.5% of GDP by the end of 2022, and some 2.25% point for the UK," the Commission said.The EU-UK trade deal covers goods, services, investment, competition, subsidies, tax transparency, air and road transport, energy and sustainability, fisheries, data protection, and social security coordination.In goods trade, the agreement sets zero tariffs and zero quotas on all goods complying with the appropriate rules of origin -- a more trade-friendly option than standard trading terms under World Trade Organisation (WTO) rules."Compared to the 'WTO assumption' that was modelled in the autumn forecast, the EU-UK FTA reduces this negative impact for the EU on average by about a third and for the UK by about a quarter," the Commission said.But the Commission also said that while there were no tariffs and quotas on goods, there were significant non-tariffs barriers for trade in both goods and services."In sum, while the FTA improves the situation as compared to an outcome with no trade agreement between the EU and the UK, it cannot come close to matching the benefits of the trading relations provided by EU membership," the Commission said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/britain-to-take-much-bigger-gdp-hit-from-brexit-than-the-eu-says-european-commission-101613044156620.html
11-02-2021||World||Graphic riot videos not enough to convict Trump, some Republican senators say||Multiple Republican senators found graphic videos of the deadly Jan. 6 attack on the US Capitol upsetting but suggested they would not lead them to convict former President Donald Trump of inciting insurrection.The House of Representatives' Democrats prosecuting Trump in his second impeachment trial on Wednesday leaned heavily on the threat posed to Republicans, including then-Vice President Mike Pence, by hundreds of Trump supporters attempting to stop Congress from certifying his election defeat."Today's presentation was powerful and emotional, reliving a terrorist attack on our nation's capital, but there was very little said about how specific conduct of the president satisfies a legal standard," said Republican Senator Ted Cruz.Convicting Trump would require the votes of two-thirds of the 100 members of the Senate, meaning that at least 17 Republicans would have to join all 48 Democrats and the two independents who caucus with them.The Senate on Tuesday in a 56-44 vote rejected an attempt to declare the trial unconstitutional because Trump left office when his term ended on Jan. 20. That margin suggested Democrats face an uphill climb in trying to convict the man who still remains popular with Republican voters.Oklahoma Senator James Lankford on Wednesday appeared emotional at his desk after Eric Swalwell, one of the House impeachment managers, finished his presentation. Another senator, Steve Daines, put his hand on Lankford's arm in what appeared to be a gesture of comfort.But speaking to reporters later, Lankford struggled to connect the visceral images to any culpability for Trump, who in a fiery speech before the attack on the Capitol urged his supporters to "fight" his election defeat."He's had 100 rallies and we've never seen that before. So that's the tough one to be able to link together," Lankford said.Separately, Florida Senator Rick Scott said he was "disgusted" by the behavior of the rioters.But asked whether Trump bore responsibility, he said, "You know, I've watched what he said. He's never said that somebody should break in. He actually said that people should do this peacefully ... Look, this is a complete waste of time."Kansas Senator Jerry Moran called the videos "heart-wrenching." But asked if he saw a link between the footage and Trump's words, he said: "I'll wait 'til the conclusion of the trial."Indiana Senator Mike Braun called the footage "riveting.""But I don't know that that's going to make a difference for any one senator just having it on a loop again," he said.Trump's lawyer, Bruce Castor, agreed the House impeachment managers' footage was emotional, but he seemed unworried about his client's chances."I believe it would have an emotional impact on any jury but ... and we haven't played ours," said Castor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/graphic-riot-videos-not-enough-to-convict-trump-some-republican-senators-say-101613043872316.html
11-02-2021||World||In Wuhan, last-minute shopping and a return to normal on Lunar New Year eve||People thronged the streets of China's central city of Wuhan this week, as they made final preparations for the Lunar New Year to bring the curtain down on a year marred by the coronavirus pandemic that killed thousands.The outbreak, which first emerged in Wuhan in late 2019, prompted authorities to enforce a complete shutdown between the end of January and early April last year, as hospitals overflowed with the sick and dying.As the Lunar New Year approached, things were nearly back to normal in Wuhan, which has been largely virus-free for months, as people scrambled to make last-minute purchases of food and decorations for family celebrations ahead of the Year of the Ox, which begins on Friday."I feel happy," said Song Bo, 33, who works in the auto industry. "Last year, we just stayed at home without doing anything or slept at home every day. This year, though we still need to wear masks, is much better."Some shopkeepers were also upbeat.Also read| Asian businesses suffer Lunar New Year blues over travel curbs"When the city was put under lockdown, there was no one on the street," said Li Hong Gang, a lantern vendor. "Now, business is recovering and I am satisfied with my sales."The city's recovery has drawn close scrutiny, with video images of a crowded music rave in a swimming pool making global headlines in August.But for some merchants at the city's wet markets, which sell live produce, the effects of the shutdown still linger.Shopkeeper Wu Xiuhong said daily sales at her store selling nuts have halved this year from their usual figure of 40,000 yuan ($6,200) ahead of the Lunar New Year holiday."It's depressing," she added. "This year is too terrible. We usually have 10 staff but this year we can handle the store with only four."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/in-wuhan-last-minute-shopping-and-a-return-to-normal-on-lunar-new-year-eve-101613031803127.html
11-02-2021||World||Chinese face-swapping app poses 'grave security threat': Taiwan's official||A Taiwanese official has cautioned people of Taiwan against using a Chinese face-swapping app, saying that the applications could use the data for financial fraud or create personal files for Chinese law enforcement.The app, called Quyan, has gained popularity among young Taiwanese. It uses a photograph uploaded by a user to edit their face onto celebrities, creating 'deep fakes' videos that make the users look like actors.The app was developed by Shenzhen Xinguodu Intelligence Co, also known as Nexgo, which create hardware and software for processing electronic payments, including biometric services.After conducting an investigation of the app, a national security official said it poses "grave security threat," especially as it requires facial recognition and e-mail verification to use, Taipei Times reported on Monday.To sign up for the app, users are required to verify their e-mails address and upload a clear photograph of their face without wearing glasses or anything else that could obstruct the camera view of the user's facial features.The firm could sell the data it collects through Quyan for use with payment software, allowing payments to be made through facial recognition, they said.By requiring e-mail confirmation, the app is able to obtain other personal information that could be used in conjunction with biometric data to make payments or obtain financial information, they added.They also did not rule out that the data are being sent to Chinese law enforcement to create files on users, according to Taipei Times.The official advised people interested in using the app to exercise caution, especially if they link accounts to their e-mail, browse Chinese websites or express political opinions online.China has been accused of stealing data by several countries, including the US and Canada.Recently, Canada's intelligence chief David Vigneault warned Canadians that they are being "aggressively" targeted by hostile foreign governments seeking political, economic and military advantage.Vigneault singled out Russia and China, saying that Beijing was engaged in "activities that are a direct threat to our national security and sovereignty."Meanwhile, Taiwan Democratic Progressive Party Legislator Kuo Kuo-wen called for a ban on Chinese apps that carry a security risk.Public agencies are already banned from using Chinese-made apps, Executive Yuan Secretary-General Li Meng-yen said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinese-face-swapping-app-poses-grave-security-threat-taiwan-s-official-101613036327935.html
11-02-2021||World||Joe Biden's call to Xi Jinping has a ripple effect: Shares across the world gain||World stock indexes were mostly higher on Thursday after President Joe Biden held his first conversation with Chinese leader Xi Jinping since taking office, though there was no indication of any major change in US. trade policy.Many markets in Asia were closed for the Lunar New Year and other holidays. Benchmarks in Paris, Frankfurt and Hong Kong, rose, while London was flat. U.S. futures edged higher.With much of Asia celebrating the traditional start of the Year of the Ox, there is little in the way of fresh market driving news likely for the rest of the week from the region.In their phone conversation, Biden and Xi appeared to have struck a conciliatory tone, Jeffrey Halley of Oanda said in a commentary.U.S. officials have signaled Washington will keep in place export restrictions on technology and tariffs imposed by the previous administration of President Donald Trump.But investors and businesses in the region are hoping a more even-keeled approach to relations between the two biggest economies by the Biden administration might help minimize future shocks to trade and investment.“The new normal remains mostly intact, although financial markets long-ago took it in their stride," Halley said. “The initial contact appears to have been civilized though, and for that, the rest of the world can be grateful."Germany's DAX edged 0.1% higher to 13,949.43 while the CAC 40 in Paris gained 0.3% to 5,688.80. Britain's FTSE 100 was flat at 6,527.11. The future for the S&P 500 gained 0.2% to 3,909.10 while the contract for the Dow industrials also gained 0.2%, to 31,302.00.Markets have been lifted by surprisingly good company earnings reports, indications that a recent surge in new coronavirus cases is easing, progress in the distribution of vaccines and signs that lawmakers in Washington are moving toward delivering another financial boost for the economy.A U.S. government report released Wednesday showed that inflation remained tame last month, reassuring investors that the economy can absorb more stimulus without overheating.Hong Kong's Hang Seng gained 0.5% to 30,173.57 and the Sensex in India edged 0.2% higher to 51,382.86. In Australia, the S&P/ASX 200 slipped 0.1% to 6,850.10. Markets were closed in Tokyo, Taiwan, Seoul and Shanghai.On Wednesday, the S&P 500 slipped less than 0.1% to 3,909.88 after swinging between a gain of 0.5% and a loss of 0.7%. Nearly 60% of the companies in the benchmark index rose, though a slide in technology stocks and companies that provide consumer services and products kept those gains in check.The Dow rose 0.2% to 31,437.80. The Nasdaq lost 0.3% to 13,972.53. The Russell 2000 index of small companies fell 0.7%, to 2,282.44.The Labor Department said Wednesday that U.S. consumer prices rose 0.3% in January, led by a surge in energy. It was the biggest monthly increase since July, but inflation over the past year has remained a modest 1.4%. Core inflation, which excludes volatile food and energy costs, is also up 1.4%, with core prices unchanged in January.The yield on the 10-year Treasury note ticked up to 1.15%. It was as a high as 1.20% earlier this week.Investors are watching inflation metrics more closely as Democrats in Congress prepare to inject $1.9 trillion of stimulus into the economy. U.S. businesses are starting to reopen and millions of Americans are now vaccinated, meaning there could be a surge of economic activity that could drive prices higher. So far, much of the extra money being channeled into economies appears to be lodging in financial markets.In other trading Thursday, U.S. benchmark crude oil lost 39 cents to $58.29 per barrel in electronic trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange. It picked up 32 cents to $58.68 on Wednesday. Brent crude, the international standard for pricing, declined 39 cents to $61.08 per barrel.The U.S. dollar rose to 104.66 Japanese yen from 104.59 yen. The euro slipped to $1.2119 from $1.2120.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-s-call-to-xi-jinping-has-a-ripple-effect-shares-across-the-world-gain-101613033464749.html
11-02-2021||World||Explained: How are experts tracking variants of the coronavirus?||Scientists are scanning virus samples taken from infected people to look for mutations, through a process called genome sequencing. It’s the same method researchers have been using for years to study bacteria, plants, animals and humans.Around the world, researchers have sequenced more than 500,000 genomes of the Covid-19 virus to date.Viruses can mutate as they make copies of themselves after infecting a person. By sequencing virus samples over time, scientists can look for recurring changes in the genome.“If we don’t know these things, we’re running blind,” said Sara Vetter, assistant lab director for the Minnesota Department of Health.Most mutations are meaningless, but others can make a virus more contagious, deadly or resistant to vaccines and treatment. Health experts are primarily concerned about three variants first detected in the United Kingdom, South Africa and Brazil. They seem to spread more easily and research is underway to see if they cause more serious disease.Evidence suggests that current vaccines still work against the variants though perhaps not as well against a mutated version that first appeared in South Africa.Countries vary in their genomic surveillance. Britain, for example, sequences about 10% of specimens positive for the coronavirus, compared to less than 1% in the US.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/explained-how-are-experts-tracking-variants-of-the-coronavirus-101613034904016.html
11-02-2021||World||Democrats use unreleased videos, Trump’s own words in blaming him for riot||House prosecutors used the second day of Donald Trump’s impeachment trial to detail a months-long campaign by the former president to stoke hatred and encourage violence over the election results that they said culminated in the mob attack on the US Capitol that he then did little to stop.Using previously unreleased videos and audio, the Democratic lawmakers vividly showed senators how close the rioters who ransacked the Capitol came to reaching them, as well as then-Vice President Mike Pence. Senators in the chamber listened in rapt silence as the recordings played.The impeachment managers, who will wrap up their case on Thursday, depicted the assault as not only foreseeable but the intended result of a multitude of actions calculated to incite Trump’s followers. The strategy appeared designed to rebut defense efforts to cast his fiery speech before the assault as normal political hyperbole, and persuade the public that his actions were premeditated and cynical.Trump’s defense team will present their opening arguments on Friday, and the proceedings could finish with a verdict by the weekend.The step-by-step timeline House impeachment managers offered set the Jan. 6 violence in the context of months of Trump tweets inflaming tensions even before the election. It was, they said, a “big lie” of baseless claims of election fraud, armed intimidation of state and local election officials, and violence at demonstrations in Washington in December. They stressed Trump’s role in promoting the rally on the day of the electoral count, the timing of his speech just ahead of the congressional session and his remarks pointing the crowd toward the Capitol.“This was never about one speech,” Representative Eric Swalwell of California, one of the nine House impeachment managers, said. “He built this mob over many months with repeated messaging until they believed that they’d been robbed of their vote and they would do anything to stop the certification.”Delegate Stacey Plaskett of the US Virgin Islands, another impeachment manager, said the people who laid siege to the Capitol “did it because Donald Trump sent them on this mission” to stop the peaceful transfer of power as Congress was certifying the Electoral College votes that ratified President Joe Biden’s victory.Democrats portrayed Trump as indifferent to the harrowing ordeal his own vice president, lawmakers and police were undergoing, even as the violence and mayhem was broadcast live on television, and did nothing to protect lawmakers and others at the Capitol for hours, failing to call in the National Guard. They highlighted news reports quoting associates saying that the former president was initially “delighted” by the attack.Even as the Capitol was being breached, Trump sent out incendiary tweets, including one disparaging Pence for not having “the courage to do what should have been done to protect our Country and our Constitution.” The videos presented showed the crowd stalking Pence and House Speaker Nancy Pelosi. In one, an unidentified member of the crowd says: “Pence lied to us, he’s a total treasonous pig.”“Senators, you’ve seen all the evidence so far, and this is clear: on Jan. 6, President Trump left everyone in this Capitol for dead,” Texas Representative Joaquin Castro said.The dramatic presentation may have more impact on public opinion than the eventual verdict in the trial. The odds still are against 17 Republicans joining with Democrats and independents to form the two-thirds majority of the Senate necessary to convict Trump. Only six Republicans voted with Democrats on Tuesday to proceed with the trial.Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, one of Trump’s closest allies in Congress, suggested the prosecution was futile, with most of his Republican colleagues already decided against conviction. He said he had assured the former president “the case is over” and “it’s just a matter of getting the final verdict.”Texas Republican Senator Ted Cruz, who was among the GOP lawmakers who voted to block certification of electoral votes from two states on the day of the attack, called the footage shown in the trial “horrific.” But he said the House impeachment managers didn’t connect the violence to Trump.“They spent a great deal of time focusing on the horrific acts of violence that were played out by the criminals, but the language from the president doesn’t come close to meeting the legal standard for incitement,” Cruz told reporters.Still, several Republicans acknowledged the power of the House Democrats’ arguments.“They had a strong presentation put together in a way that I think makes it very compelling,” said Senator John Thune of South Dakota, the No. 2 GOP leader, said. He didn’t rule out voting for conviction, saying he would listen to both sides “and draw conclusions when it’s all done.”Trump lawyer Bruce Castor told reporters as he left the Capitol Wednesday night that ”we didn’t learn anything today that we didn’t already know.”“Yesterday, we said we didn’t dispute that the breach of the Capitol is a terrible thing, and that mob violence is something that President Trump abhors,” he said, adding, “I wonder why we sat through eight hours of videos that aren’t under dispute.”Trump’s team intends to rely heavily on his use of the words “peacefully and patriotically” at one point in the Jan. 6 speech as part of his defense against the impeachment charge of incitement, according to people familiar with the effort. They also plan to show videos of prominent Democrats using similar rhetoric about fighting to argue Trump is being subjected to a double standard.Representative Madeleine Dean, another impeachment manager, anticipating the argument, said that Trump only used the word “peacefully” once in the 11,000-word speech, while urging on followers with the words “fight” or “fighting” 20 times.House managers took turns outlining the ways Trump perpetuated “the big lie” that the election was stolen and tried to get elected Republicans to overturn the results -- and when that failed, how he encouraged supporters to rally on Jan. 6 to “stop the steal” as Biden’s victory was being ratified.Swalwell said Trump spent $50 million from his legal defense fund on video ads, online advertising and targeted text messages to amplify his “stop the steal” message that stopped on Jan. 5.Plaskett pointed to several incidents in the months leading up to Jan. 6 when Trump encouraged groups of violent supporters, including one that tried to run a Biden campaign bus off the road in Texas and the Proud Boys, a far right movement, who engaged in violence in downtown Washington, at a pro-Trump rally on Dec. 12.The House managers contention that the mob was acting on the direction of Trump was bolstered in a federal court in Washington in the case of a member of the Proud Boys arrested in connection with the riot. The attorney for Dominic Pezzola said in a court filing that Pezzola was responding to “the entreaties of the then commander in chief, President Trump.” It claimed that Pezzola was “misled by the president’s deception.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/democrats-use-unreleased-videos-trump-s-own-words-in-blaming-him-for-riot-101613034180872.html
11-02-2021||World||Kim Jong Un moves to save pandemic-ravaged economy, warns of 'powerful measures'||North Korean leader Kim Jong Un has ordered tougher legal supervision to support his development plans and eradicate various economy-related unlawful acts, state media said Thursday, as he works to salvage an economy battered by the pandemic and other challenges.Kim spoke Wednesday during a Workers’ Party meeting convened to follow up on decisions made at the ruling party’s congress in January, where he admitted previous economic plans had failed and announced a new five-year development plan.Kim “stressed the importance to strengthen legal supervision and control over the establishment and executive process of the national economic plan,” the official Korean Central News Agency said.He said prosecutors and other law enforcement organizations must do more to ensure the economic plan is correctly executed and “stage a strong legal struggle for checking all kinds of illegal practices revealed in economic activities.” Kim added that “all sectors and units should obey them unconditionally,” KCNA said.North Korea’s top prosecutor U Sang Chol told the party meeting that he will firmly implement Kim's order. He said he'll “offensively” keep legal watch over agencies violating the socialist economic management order and take “powerful measures” against any acts hampering efforts to strengthen industries, according to KCNA.Kim faces what appears to be the toughest crisis of his nine-year rule as the already-troubled economy is hit by pandemic-related border closings that have sharply reduced the North’s external trade, a spate of natural disasters last summer and persistent US-led sanctions. During the party congress, Kim described the difficulties as the “worst-ever.”The new five-year plan centers on building a stronger self-supporting economy, reducing reliance on imports, making more investments in the metal and chemical industries and increasing production of consumer goods. But some analysts say the new plan still lacks substance, noting that North Korea’s difficulties result from decades of mismanagement, self-imposed isolation and the sanctions imposed because of its nuclear program.North Korea’s push to boost legal control over the economic plan shows Kim is “desperate to report progress over the new five-year plan to secure a stability of the Kim Jong Un government,” said Kim Dong-yub, an analyst from Seoul’s Institute for Far Eastern Studies.He said punishment for those embroiled in alleged corruption, negligence and incompetence will likely be harsh.Kim's Wednesday speech on the third day of the plenary session of the party's Central Committee followed earlier secessions where he criticized government agencies for “passive and self-protecting tendencies.”Kim also set forth unspecified future action to be taken by agencies responsible for external and South Korean affairs. State media dispatches carrying Kim's remarks have not mentioned the United States and deadlocked nuclear diplomacy.During January's congress, Kim disclosed an array of sophisticated weapons under development and vowed to enlarge his nuclear arsenal to cope with what he called intensifying U.S. hostility. He said the fate of relations between North Korea and the U.S. depends on Washington.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/kim-jong-un-moves-to-save-pandemic-ravaged-economy-warns-of-powerful-measures-101613033449760.html
11-02-2021||World||'Overwhelm the problem': Inside Joe Biden's war on Covid-19||The meetings begin each day not long after dawn. Dozens of aides report in, coffee in hand, joining by Zoom from agency headquarters, their homes or even adjacent offices.The sessions start with the latest sobering statistics meant to focus the work and offer a reminder of what's at stake: new coronavirus cases, people in hospitals, deaths. But they also include the latest signs of progress: Covid-19 tests administered, vaccine doses shipped, shots injected.Where the last administration addressed the pandemic with the vernacular of a natural disaster — using the Federal Emergency Management Agency's mantra of a “federally supported, state managed and locally executed” response — Biden's team is borrowing from the Pentagon and the doctrine of overwhelming force.“We're at war with this virus,” Covid-19 coordinator Jeff Zients said in an interview with The Associated Press between Sunday morning meetings on the response. “We're taking every resource and tool the federal government has to battle on every front.”It's a strategy facing urgent tests after Biden inherited an inconsistent vaccine distribution plan and with the emerging threats from new virus variants.The goal, Biden aides say, is as simple as it is ambitious: After a year of being on defense they want to take the fight to the virus — to “overwhelm the problem,” a kind of mantra for the team.Also read| Trump’s environmental policies killed thousands of people, scientists sayThe campaign is being waged in schools and sterile pharmaceutical plants, on the vast blacktop of stadium parking lots and along the sidewalks outside Americans' homes. To defeat the virus, Biden's team must oversee a herculean logistical effort to put shots into hundreds of millions of arms, but also overcome vaccine hesitance, politically charged science skepticism and fatigue across all corners of society after nearly a year of hardship.For Biden, beating back the pandemic is a defining challenge of his presidency, testing his central promise to the American people that he can better manage the outbreak than his predecessor. His team seemingly day by day rolls out an almost dizzying array of new efforts and appeals large and small — everything from building a surgical glove factory in the US by year's end to asking Americans to wear masks while walking their dogs.The central question for Biden and his team, one that can't be answered yet: Will it all add up to enough?“They're taking exactly the right approach,” said Dr. Leana Wen, an emergency physician and public health professor at George Washington University who previously served as Baltimore's health commissioner. “The federal government is taking responsibility, instead of leaving everything to state and local governments and blaming others when things go wrong.”For all of the activity, though, Biden knows that there are more grim statistics to come before Americans can return to any semblance of the “before days."Also read| Dozens of former Republican officials in talks to form anti-Trump third partyMore Americans have died from Covid-19 in the last year than during all of World War II and some projections show the death toll could top that of the Civil War by the beginning of summer.Since he took office three weeks ago, Biden's team has attacked the problem on multiple fronts. They have unleashed billions of federal dollars to boost vaccinations and testing and developed a model to deploy more than 10,000 active-duty troops to join even more members of the National Guard to put shots into arms.Mass vaccination sites, supported by federal troops, are set to open in California, Texas and New York in coming weeks.As concerns grow about potentially dangerous mutations in the virus, Biden aides view the vaccines less as a silver bullet and more as part of a complementary series of moves that taken together offer the prospect of real progress.And for the US to fully contain the problem, Dr Anthony Fauci, the nation's top infectious disease expert, has warned that the pace of vaccinations must increase globally to curtail the mutants.“We're not going to sugarcoat in any way how hard this is, but we're going to demonstrate clear evidence of progress and action,” Zients said.Biden is already well on pace to exceed his goal of 100 million vaccinations in his first 100 days in office. It's an assuredly achievable goal that some consider inadequate but also a break from the off-base predictions of the Trump administration that undercut public confidence. According to the Centers from Disease Control and Prevention, at least 26 million doses have been administered in Biden's first three weeks in office.Much of the improvement in vaccination deliveries so far has been due to long-planned manufacturing ramp-ups, not the actions of the Biden team, aides acknowledge. But with the prospect of a third vaccine receiving approval in coming weeks, they are trying to anticipate and eliminate the next set of bottlenecks, when capacity to deliver injections and demand for vaccines become limiting factors.Wen urged the Biden administration to set more aggressive targets — a moon shot — to increase the pace of vaccinations to 3 million per day. “I think they just need to be a lot more ambitious when they talk to the public,” she said.Beyond the focus on sheer numbers of shots delivered, there is question of whose arms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/overwhelm-the-problem-inside-joe-biden-s-war-on-covid19-101613032735020.html
11-02-2021||World||Instagram bans vaccine skeptic Robert F. Kennedy Jr. over Covid-19 vaccine misinformation||Photosharing platform Instagram, owned by Facebook Inc, has removed the account of vaccine skeptic Robert F. Kennedy Jr. for posting misleading information about Covid-19, the Wall Street Journal reported on Thursday.Kennedy, the nephew of late President John F. Kennedy, and his representatives could not immediately be reached for a comment. Facebook and Instagram did not respond to a request for comment.The company permanently removed the account "for repeatedly sharing debunked claims about the coronavirus or vaccines," the Journal said citing an Instagram spokeswoman. Kennedy, a lawyer and environmentalist, is the son of the late former US Senator, US Attorney General and presidential candidate Robert F. Kennedy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/instagram-bans-vaccine-skeptic-robert-f-kennedy-jr-over-covid-19-vaccine-misinformation-101613033222457.html
11-02-2021||World||Biden seeks more foreign workers while skirting H-1B visa uproar||Joe Biden’s immigration overhaul seeks to allow more skilled foreign workers into the US without stirring widespread protest from labor groups, whose opposition would all but ruin prospects for what is already one of the president’s most precarious priorities.The sweeping proposal Biden sent to Congress on his first day in office drew quick Republican opposition over its centerpiece: a faster path to citizenship for 11 million undocumented immigrants in the US. Another provision would allow more foreign students and workers to enter the US by increasing the number of employment-based green cards.Business groups view the proposal as a way to increase the supply of coders and other skilled tech workers for US companies without raising caps on programs such as the H-1B visa for high-skilled workers.Companies like Alphabet Inc.’s Google, Apple Inc. and Facebook Inc. have for years pressed to increase the number of tech workers allowed into the US, saying they need engineers from countries like India because there aren’t enough skilled Americans. But efforts to expand the workforce through H-1B visas have drawn a backlash from unions and immigration opponents, who argue that the companies overlook US talent to hire foreigners at lower salaries.The Biden proposal seeks to sidestep a conflict with organized labor by leaving the annual H-1B quota untouched. The measure instead clears a path for more foreign workers to eventually enter the country by eliminating a decades-long backlog of people waiting for employment-based green cards, which grant permanent legal residence and are capped at 140,000 per year under current law.“This bill, signed into law, would be a tremendous improvement for legal immigration in this country,” said Todd Schulte, president of FWD.us, an immigration advocacy group founded by tech industry leaders.Business group leaders have discussed an immigration overhaul with Democratic and Republican staff in the House and Senate, according to industry officials working on the issue. The talks have focused on finding areas of bipartisan consensus that can help advance an overall package, including keeping science-technology-engineering-math graduates in the US; providing legal status for so-called Dreamers, undocumented immigrants brought to the country as children; and streamlining the employment-based visa system.So far, labor groups are supporting Biden’s approach.AFL-CIO President Richard Trumka praised Biden’s framework as “bold” and said its path to citizenship “will help to raise standards for all workers.” The labor group declined to comment on the proposed changes to the employment-based visa system.Service Employees International Union, which represents mostly lower-wage workers, as well as United Farm Workers, joined a multimillion-dollar advertising and public relations campaign in support of Biden’s immigration plan.Nandini Nair, an immigration lawyer at Greenspoon Marder LLP, said Biden’s approach goes “a long way” toward satisfying unions’ concerns.“You’re dealing with the individuals who are already here in the US versus this narrative that foreign workers are coming to the US and taking jobs,” Nair said.‘Real’ TensionsEven so, unions’ views on the measure could change dramatically as lawmakers hash out details of the legislation.Biden’s proposes to recapture unused visas from prior years and eliminate per-country caps for employment-based green cards, which could benefit Indian information technology professionals who sometimes wait decades to gain permanent US residence. The plan would also exempt spouses and children of green-card holders from the annual quota, which some advocates estimate could double the number of employment-based cards.“There are tensions there that are real,” said Ediberto Roman, a law professor at Florida International University who focuses on immigration. “In terms of skilled labor, I could see some potential impact there.”There’s debate over whether tech companies in the US need to import workers. Engineers and IT personnel are among the hardest positions to fill, according to the Manpower Group, and businesses say that as a consequence, they’re forced to look for foreign workers. But immigration opponents say the US labor pool is sufficient, pointing to the number of Americans who receive degrees in computer science or related fields.The Biden administration is “espousing the tired talking points of the US Chamber of Commerce and others who benefit from a wellspring of inexpensive sources of labor,” said Kevin Lynn, executive director of the group US Tech Workers, which supports lower levels of US immigration and opposes outsourcing jobs.Lynn said that the coronavirus pandemic’s devastating effect on the US job market is even more reason to hold off on proposals to open the door to more foreign workers.“I’m befuddled why they would push expansionist immigration policies at a time of so much job insecurity,” Lynn said.Biden’s immigration proposal stands little chance of passage in its current form because of a longstanding partisan divide over granting undocumented migrants access to citizenship -- a policy derided as “amnesty” by many Republicans. But the president’s plan likely will be an outline for Democrats in Congress as they write a comprehensive immigration bill.White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki said Wednesday she wouldn’t comment on the measure’s prospects because it hasn’t been formally introduced in Congress.The White House will have to pull off a balancing act to unite forces on the left -- labor groups and immigrant-rights advocates -- if it hopes to pass the overhaul into law and fulfill one of Biden’s core campaign promises. Key Republican senators have already denounced Biden’s plan meaning that Biden will need strong support from Democrats.And a path to citizenship -- not increasing the number of foreign workers -- remains the dominant issue for immigrant-rights advocates, said Lorella Praeli, co-president of Community Change, one of the groups leading the campaign to promote Biden’s plan.“We have to continue to build momentum toward winning freedom for all 11 million and reforming and transforming our whole system,” Praeli said.STEM GraduatesBiden’s proposal attempts to keep overseas students who earn advanced science and technology degrees in the US by giving them a faster track to permanent residence. It would help guest workers who already hold H-1B visas by making work authorization for their dependents permanent, and preventing their children from aging out of the system.Biden’s plan also acknowledges concerns of labor groups. It grants the Department of Homeland Security the power to raise or lower the number of green cards available based on economic conditions and enact rules to encourage “higher wages for non-immigrant, high-skilled visas to prevent unfair competition with American worker.”Companies that employ foreign workers are anxious to see changes to the legal immigration system, especially after Biden’s early slate of executive actions stopped short of immediately repealing former President Donald Trump’s pandemic-related visa curbs. Biden’s orders directed a review of many Trump migration policies with the aim of eventually rolling them back.Business groups, including the US Chamber of Commerce, Business Roundtable and FWD.us, have sought to build support for a broad immigration overhaul that includes a path to citizenship -- especially for Dreamers.Allowing more skilled foreign workers into the US once enjoyed strong support in the Republican Party, but it may be a less powerful enticement for GOP lawmakers following Trump’s presidency. He sought to restrict both legal and illegal migration to the country, hardening the party’s stance, and routinely demonized immigrants as threats to both US security and American jobs.Senator Marco Rubio, who co-sponsored a bipartisan immigration overhaul in 2013 that included a citizenship path for undocumented migrants, denounced Biden’s bill as a “non-starter” that will give “blanket amnesty” to people living in the country without authorization.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-seeks-more-foreign-workers-while-skirting-h-1b-visa-uproar-101613033075683.html
11-02-2021||World||Nations without South African variant should use AstraZeneca vaccine: CDC||African countries that have not reported the circulation of the 501Y.V2 coronavirus variant first identified in South Africa should proceed with the rollout of the AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine, the African Union's disease control body said on Thursday.For countries that have reported circulation of the 501Y.V2 variant, they should accelerate their preparedness to introduce all vaccines that have received emergency use authorisation, Africa CDC Director John Nkengasong told a news conference."Consideration should be given to the effectiveness of the vaccine against the 501Y.V2variant," Nkengasong said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nations-without-south-african-variant-should-use-astrazeneca-vaccine-cdc-101613033370621.html
11-02-2021||World||'Kent' Covid-19 variant will sweep the world, says UK genetic surveillance chief||The coronavirus variant first found in the British region of Kent is likely to sweep around the world and the battle with the virus is going to go on for at least a decade, the head of the UK's genetic surveillance programme said.The Kent variant has "swept the country" and "it's going to sweep the world, in all probability," Sharon Peacock, director of the Covid-19 Genomics UK consortium, told the BBC.Also read: Oxford says Covid-19 vaccine with AstraZeneca works against UK variant"Once we get on top of [the virus] or it mutates itself out of being virulent - causing disease - then we can stop worrying about it. But I think, looking in the future, we're going to be doing this for years. We're still going to be doing this 10 years down the line, in my view."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/kent-covid-19-variant-will-sweep-the-world-says-uk-genetic-surveillance-chief-101613031746798.html
11-02-2021||World||In UK, roving teams bring coronavirus vaccine shots to homeless||In a pandemic, homeless people face being more forgotten than they already are. But not by doctors like Dr. Anil Mehta, who is on a mission to bring the coronavirus vaccine to those hardest to reach and often most at risk of getting sick in east London.Mehta, a general practitioner, and his small team of doctors and nurses have been showing up at homeless centers in his local area, a Covid-19 hotspot, offering a free jab to dozens who might otherwise get left behind in Britain’s mass vaccination drive.“They will get missed if we don’t find them proactively,” Mehta said. “They really don’t have anything going for them, in terms of medical care. Finding them is absolutely essential to what we need to achieve in our boroughs.”The homeless are not listed among the British government’s highest priority groups for the vaccine rollout — which currently include people over 70, nursing home residents, front-line medical staff and social care workers, as well as the clinically vulnerable.Because those sleeping outside and people in shelters have no address that doctors can contact them at, some local authorities across Britain have begun sending out roving vaccination teams to identify the clinically vulnerable among them so they can have access to the jab.The charity Homeless Link said the U.K. government last month appealed to local officials to accommodate as many so-called “rough sleepers” as possible and help them register with a doctor as temperatures plummet and as a more contagious virus variant drove a huge surge in U.K. infection rates. But the charity said there has been no clear strategy to ensure that the homeless get inoculated, and that means officials in different areas have been left to take different tacks.“We believe that a targeted approach to vaccination is needed to protect people with no home,” said Rick Henderson, the charity’s chief executive.“Homeless people are substantially more likely to report having chronic diseases such as asthma, heart problems and stroke, and are old before their time. Furthermore, their use of communal accommodation such as homeless hostels increases their risk of contracting Covid-19,” he added.In the outer reaches of northeast London, which has seen some of England’s worst infection rates, Mehta and his mobile vaccination team have been busy working outside of their clinic. They gave a vaccine jab to over 200 homeless people and social care workers at two community centers last week, and plan to reach another 70 next week.Mehta is happy with the progress so far.“These are very hard-to-reach groups — they could be in different places, here today and going to central London the next day,” he said. “We are effectively chasing them.”Earlier this week, Britain’s government also urged anyone living in the UK unlawfully to register with a doctor and receive a vaccine, promising that they would not have their immigration status checked or risk deportation. It wasn’t clear how many people the policy affects — the last official estimate, in 2005, suggested there were about 430,000 people in the country with no legal right to remain.More than 12 million people in Britain have now had at least one dose of a coronavirus vaccine. Officials say they are on track to offer first doses to 15 million in the top priority groups by Monday, and have set a target of vaccinating every adult in the country by the fall.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/in-uk-roving-teams-bring-coronavirus-vaccine-shots-to-homeless-101613033001690.html
11-02-2021||World||Boris Johnson targets vaccines for everyone over 50 by April||UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson set a target to vaccinate all over-50s against coronavirus by the end of April, but warned it’s still too soon to talk about lifting the nation’s lockdown.More data on the success of vaccines is needed before restrictions can be eased, Johnson’s chief scientific adviser, Patrick Vallance, said at a televised press briefing with the two men on Wednesday evening.“We’re just going to have to be a little bit more patient,” Johnson said, as he told people not to book any vacations. “It is just too early to be certain about what we will be able to do this summer.”The UK’s vaccination program continues at speed, with more than 13 million people having now received their first dose. Data relating to the pandemic is also improving, with cases of the virus, hospitalizations and deaths all falling, Vallance said.However, any re-opening of the economy will have to happen carefully so the government can measure the effects of any relaxation of the rules, he said.“The virus isn’t going to be particularly interested in dates,” Vallance said. “Caution is very important as we go into opening things up.”Johnson is scheduled to set out a road map for easing restrictions on Feb. 22. He is under pressure from members of his own Conservative Party to start lifting curbs as soon as possible to help the UK rebound from its worst downturn for 300 years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/boris-johnson-targets-vaccines-for-everyone-over-50-by-april-101613027077600.html
11-02-2021||World||Mexico approves Chinese Covid vaccines CanSino and CoronaVac||Mexican regulators gave emergency approval Wednesday to the Chinese-made Covid-19 vaccines CanSino Biologics and CoronaVac.The approval was announced by deputy health minister Hugo Lopez-Gatell as Mexico struggles to manage the pandemic."I have given the authorization for emergency use of both vaccines," Lopez-Gatell, who serves as the spokesman for the government's pandemic coordination, said during a press conference.In addition to CanSino and Sinovac's CoronaVac, Mexico has authorized three other Covid-19 vaccines: those from Pfizer, AstraZeneca and Russia's Sputnik V.In late December, Mexico became the first Latin American country to approve a coronavirus vaccine, followed by Chile and Costa Rica.So far, only the American-German Pfizer/BioNTech jab has been administered, with health care workers across Mexico and teachers in the southern part of the country having received the jab.The first shipment of the active ingredient in the British-Swedish AstraZeneca vaccine arrived in Mexico in January, and it is expected to be ready for local use and shipment throughout Latin America by March.Mexico has officially registered around 170,000 deaths from Covid-19 -- the world's third highest toll -- and nearly two million known cases.nc/lda/caw/bfm||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/mexico-approves-chinese-covid-vaccines-cansino-and-coronavac-101613015772533.html
11-02-2021||World||Trump’s environmental policies killed thousands of people, scientists say||The Trump administration deliberately harnessed racism and class animosity to push policies that caused hundreds of thousands of US deaths, according to a scathing new report in the British medical journal The Lancet.After undertaking a comprehensive assessment of the health and environment impacts of Donald Trump’s presidency, the 33 scientists who co-authored the article estimated that rollbacks of environmental and workplace protections led to 22,000 excess deaths in 2019 alone. They also found that 40% of U.S. deaths during 2020 from Covid-19 would have been avoided if the country’s death rate had been closer to that of its G7 peers, and blamed Trump for eschewing the advice of public health agencies and politicizing common sense responses to the pandemic such as mask-wearing.The findings rely on comparisons with previous U.S. norms and those in other countries to make statistical assumptions about what mortality rates might have been if Trump hadn’t swerved away from the global scientific consensus. Philip Landrigan, a pediatrician and epidemiologist at Boston College who was one of the report’s co-authors, argued that it was fair to make the linkage.“Basically, the Trump administration stopped enforcing Clean Air Act,” Landrigan said, referring to the landmark legislation signed by President Richard Nixon in 1970 and used by President Barack Obama to regulate carbon emissions. Under the aegis of ending the “war on coal,” Trump’s Environmental Protection Agency reversed the Obama administration’s emissions rule and stopped trying to control fine particulate matter air pollution. As a result, the Lancet report said, concentrations of such pollution have increased after having declined steadily for decades before he took office.Fine particulate pollution is closely linked to all sorts of lethal diseases, including childhood asthma, heart disease, lung cancer, and diabetes among adults.“We see trend lines for deaths from environmental and occupational exposure start going up in 2017, reversing 50 years of decline,” Landrigan concluded. “It is hard to walk away from cause and effect.”Trump’s last EPA Administrator, Scott Wheeler, repeatedly cited cost benefit analysis as a rationale for regulatory changes that undermined Obama-era attempts to curb pollution. On the campaign trail last year, the former president pledged to ensure that the U.S. had the “cleanest air and water in the planet,” even as his administration reversed policies created to achieve those goals. Representatives for Trump didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment.The Lancet’s willingness to wade into the politics behind health policy is highly unusual among scientific journals. Richard Horton, the journal’s editor, is no stranger to controversy, however. Under his leadership, the magazine has come under fire for one-sided critiques of Israel, for assigning greatly inflated death figures to the U.S. invasion of Iraq in 2003, and for publishing a now widely discredited study linking vaccinations to autism. In April, the Lancet criticized Trump for pulling out of the World Health Organization, calling his decision a “crime against humanity.”But the fact that so many scientists were willing to break from their traditional political neutrality to put their names on this assessment is “a signal of a changing time,” according to Gretchen Goldman, a research director at the Union of Concerned Scientists. While the Lancet has been more outspoken than others, she said, it’s not alone among science magazines in publicly criticizing Trump. Scientific American shocked many when it broke 175 years of tradition and gave its first ever presidential endorsement to Joe Biden, largely because it argued that Trump was such an awful alternative.“If you told me four years ago that scientific journals would be speaking out against Trump, I wouldn’t have believed you,” Goldman said. “But since then, there has been quite a shift, reflecting both the severity of what Trump did as well as the changing willingness of the scientific community to engage in policy conversations.”This report has its roots in the spring of 2017, when the Lancet formed a commission of experts with backgrounds in a wide range of topics such as clinical medicine, public health, and epidemiology to track the public health effects of the Trump administration.On environmental policy, the report noted that Trump rolled back 84 vital regulations covering everything from toxins in water to the way scientific research gets used by the federal government, with 20 more rule changes still in progress by the end of his term. The resulting increase in airborne particulate matter was the primary cause of the excess deaths, the authors concluded. But they also proposed that Trump’s climate change denialism would be the most enduring stain on his environmental legacy.While the commission excoriated Trump, it also acknowledged that deep-seated problem in America’s health system predated him by decades. The authors note, for example, that American life expectancy rates have been declining compared to other high-income nations since the 1980s.But instead of moving to solve this decline, the report argues that the former president specifically exploited low- and middle-income White people’s anger over their deteriorating prospects to mobilize the racial animus and xenophobia that propelled his political success. The people who supported Trump were in fact among the worst affected by his policies, the commission found. The 22,000 additional 2019 deaths occurred largely in states that voted for Trump, while Democratic states such as California and New York had their own laws that acted as a safety net.The report also emphasizes the racial disparities in health that grew under Trump, including the fact that most of the 2.3 million Americans who lost health insurance while he was in office were minorities. It also underscored the fact that Covid-19 has much more heavily impacted Black, Latinx, and Indigenous people.As Mary T. Bassett, a former health commissioner for New York City and a member of the Lancet’s expert panel, wrote in a statement released with the report: “The disastrous, bungled response to the pandemic made clear how existing, longstanding racial inequities simply have not been addressed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trumps-environmental-policies-killed-thousands-of-people-scientists-say-101613027093223.html
11-02-2021||World||US President Joe Biden forms military task force to tackle China||US President Joe Biden on Wednesday announced the formation of a department of defence task force to recommend key priorities and decisions to “chart a strong path forward on China-related matters”.Biden made the announcement during his first visit to the Pentagon,the headquarters of the US department of defence, along with vice-president Kamala Harris.Later in the day, Biden affirmed his “priorities of protecting the American people’s security, prosperity, health, and way of life, and preserving a free and open Indo-Pacific” in his first phone call with Chinese President Xi Jinping.“President Biden underscored his fundamental concerns about Beijing’s coercive and unfair economic practices, crackdown in Hong Kong, human rights abuses in Xinjiang, and increasingly assertive actions in the region, including towards Taiwan,” the White House said in a statement. Biden and Xi also exchanged views on the Covid-19 pandemic, climate crisis, and preventing weapons proliferation.Announcing the task force, Biden said it will “look at our strategy and operational concepts, technology, and force posture, and so much more” and it will work across the department to provide recommendations to secretary of defence Lloyd Austin “on key priorities and decision points so that we can chart a strong path forward on China-related matters”.Ely Ratner, a special assistant to the US secretary of defence, will head the 15-member body drawn from across the department. It will have four months to submit it recommendations.Ratner is an Asia expert and has been with Biden for a long time, working in various capacities. He served on Biden’s staff in the Senate and then on the Senate foreign relations committee. He was in the state department before joining Biden, who was vice-president at that time, as his deputy national security adviser.Ratner and Kurt Campbell, the Indo-Pacific coordinator in the National Security Council, have emerged as the Biden administration’s key hands-on officials for the region.The Biden administration has been under mounting pressure at home and abroad to come up with an explicit policy on China, going beyond remarks by the president and his top national security and foreign policy officials.During a visit to the state department last week, Biden called China “America’s most serious competitor” and, he had added, “we’ll confront China’s economic abuses, counter its aggressive, coercive action to push back on China’s attack on human rights, intellectual property, and global governance”.The US president also spoke of “growing challenges posed by China to keep the peace and defend our interests in the Indo-Pacific and globally”.Though housed in the Pentagon, the task force will require, the president said, a “whole-of-government effort, bipartisan cooperation in Congress, and strong alliances and partnerships”.The United States has said it believes China is seeking to “overturn” the rule-based structure that has worked for all nations in the Indo-Pacific region and is “using all elements of national power to bend the nations (in the region) to its will”. And countering China in this context will be the focus of the task force.Defence department officials described the task force as a “sprint effort” that will examine and marshal all aspects of American power — strategy, operational concepts, technology and force structure, force posture and force management and intelligence — as a well as “alliances and partnerships and their impact on Sino-American relations and the defence department’s relations with China”.The phrase “sprint effort” appears to be a spin-off of “pacing threat”, a terminology previously used by top Pentagon officials such as secretary Austin and deputy secretary of defence Kathleen Hicks, according to defence department officials, to describe the relationship with China as a strategic competitor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-president-joe-biden-forms-military-task-force-to-tackle-china-101613031314165.html
11-02-2021||World||Dozens of former Republican officials in talks to form anti-Trump third party||Dozens of former Republican officials, who view the party as unwilling to stand up to former President Donald Trump and his attempts to undermine US democracy, are in talks to form a centre-right breakaway party, four people involved in the discussions told Reuters.The early stage discussions include former elected Republicans, former officials in the Republican administrations of Ronald Reagan, George H.W. Bush, George W. Bush and Trump, ex-Republican ambassadors and Republican strategists, the people involved say.More than 120 of them held a Zoom call last Friday to discuss the breakaway group, which would run on a platform of "principled conservatism," including adherence to the Constitution and the rule of law - ideas those involved say have been trashed by Trump.The plan would be to run candidates in some races but also to endorse centre-right candidates in others, be they Republicans, independents or Democrats, the people say.Also read| With Biden at helm in US, India-Iran trade prospects may improve: ExportersEvan McMullin, who was chief policy director for the House Republican Conference and ran as an independent in the 2016 presidential election, told Reuters that he co-hosted the Zoom call with former officials concerned about Trump’s grip on Republicans and the nativist turn the party has taken.Three other people confirmed to Reuters the call and the discussions for a potential splinter party, but asked not to be identified.Among the call participants were John Mitnick, general counsel for the Department of Homeland Security under Trump; former Republican congressman Charlie Dent; Elizabeth Neumann, deputy chief of staff in the Homeland Security Department under Trump; and Miles Taylor, another former Trump homeland security official.The talks highlight the wide intra-party rift over Trump's false claims of election fraud and the deadly Jan. 6 storming of the US Capitol. Most Republicans remain fiercely loyal to the former president, but others seek a new direction for the party.The House of Representatives impeached Trump on Jan. 13 on a charge of inciting an insurrection by exhorting thousands of supporters to march on the Capitol on the day Congress was gathered to certify Democrat Joe Biden's election victory.Also read| On Twitter, govt row in India, US says committed to supporting democratic valuesCall participants said they were particularly dismayed by the fact that more than half of the Republicans in Congress - eight senators and 139 House representatives - voted to block certification of Biden's election victory just hours after the Capitol siege.Most Republican senators have also indicated they will not support the conviction of Trump in this week’s Senate impeachment trial.“Large portions of the Republican Party are radicalizing and threatening American democracy,” McMullin told Reuters. “The party needs to recommit to truth, reason and founding ideals or there clearly needs to be something new.”Asked about the discussions for a third party, Jason Miller, a Trump spokesman, said: “These losers left the Republican Party when they voted for Joe Biden.”A representative for the Republican National Committee referred to a recent statement from Chairwoman Ronna McDaniel."If we continue to attack each other and focus on attacking on fellow Republicans, if we have disagreements within our party, then we are losing sight of 2022 (elections)," McDaniel said on Fox News last month.Also read| Joe Biden in call with China's Xi Jinping raises human rights, trade"The only way we’re going to win is if we come together," she said.The Biden White House did not immediately respond to a request for comment.McMullin said just over 40% of those on last week's Zoom call backed the idea of a breakaway, national third party. Another option under discussion is to form a “faction” that would operate either inside the current Republican Party or outside it.Names under consideration for a new party include the Integrity Party and the Center Right Party. If it is decided instead to form a faction, one name under discussion is the Center Right Republicans.Members are aware that the US political landscape is littered with the remains of previous failed attempts at national third parties.“But there is a far greater hunger for a new political party out there than I have ever experienced in my lifetime,” one participant said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/dozens-of-former-republican-officials-in-talks-to-form-anti-trump-third-party-101613015717432.html
11-02-2021||World||China-US confrontation a disaster for both countries, Xi tells Biden||Confrontation between China and the United States would be a disaster and the two sides should re-establish the means to avoid misjudgments, Chinese President Xi Jinping told his US counterpart Joe Biden in their first telephone call as leaders.The call on Thursday Asia time, but Wednesday in Washington, was the first since Biden took office and comes as Beijing and Washington clash over issues from trade, Hong Kong, the South China Sea, Taiwan and reports of human rights crimes against Uighur Muslims in the Xinjiang region.Xi reiterated during the call that cooperation was the only choice and that the two countries need to properly manage disputes in a constructive manner, according to an account of the conversation reported by Chinese state television.Also read| ‘What trial?’ Life goes on in Trump world as ex-president faces 2nd impeachmentHe also said Beijing and Washington should re-establish various mechanisms for dialogue in order to understand each others' intentions and avoid misunderstandings, the report said.Xi also told Biden that he hopes the United States will cautiously handle matters related to Taiwan, Hong Kong and Xinjiang that deal with matters of China's sovereignty and territorial integrity, according to an account of the discussions reported by Chinese state television on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinaus-confrontation-a-disaster-for-both-countries-xi-tells-biden-101613027149186.html
11-02-2021||World||South African coronavirus variant detected in California for first time||Two cases of coronavirus strains first detected in South Africa have been reported in the US State of California, said Governor Gavin Newsom on Wednesday (local time).Both cases were identified in the Bay Area, one in Santa Clara and the other in Alameda County, CNN reported.Thirty labs across the state are working to sequence genomes and potentially uncover additional cases of variants, Governor Newsom said.According to CNN, the discovery of the South African strain is in addition to 159 cases of the UK variant and 1,203 incidents of the West Coast variants identified thus far in the Golden State.However, the first two confirmed cases of the variant in the US were detected last month in South Carolina, CNN reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/south-african-coronavirus-variant-detected-in-california-for-first-time-101613015807385.html
11-02-2021||World||In rural Myanmar, residents protect police who reject coup||Civil servants, even police officers, are risking their jobs to protest the military takeover in Myanmar, and one of the more dramatic examples of crossing that line also illustrates the deep roots of the country's ethnic conflicts.In a small village in the eastern state of Kayah, 42 local police officers stood as one to declare their support for the protesters and refuse entreaties from a senior officer to return to duty. Residents streamed to the scene to protect the defiant police from arrest.A video shot by a local man of Wednesday's drama showed how as the officer tried to cajole the group to return to the fold, a young policeman stepped forward to argue with him.“If we go back with you it will be so different from what we desire,” said the younger man. “That’s why we have decided not to go with you.”“Do you all agree?” he asked his fellow resisters, who shouted back: “We agree.”While The Associated Press did not independently witness the incident in Bardo village, the cameraman who filmed it provided a detailed and extensive description of what happened.The group stood behind banners, one of which read: “We don’t want dictatorship.” In the course of the full video, they frequently repeated chants popular with the protest movement, calling for democracy.The officer paced down the line of the recalcitrant men and women. “We are a team, a troop,” he retorted. “We cannot stay like this for long.”He was met with three-fingered salutes in response, the symbol of resistance adopted from the pro-democracy movement in neighboring Thailand.Then, as the two sides were at an impasse, local people arrived to prevent any attempt to force the police group into leaving in the custody of their officer.A separate video posted on Facebook by the Progressive Karenni People Force — a network of local civil society organizations — showed how more than 100 people trudged along a dirt road to make their way to the isolated police unit.The incident took place the same day an anti-coup march was held in the nearby state capital of Loikaw.By Wednesday night, reports from the area suggested the defiant police officers were in hiding.The trigger for their mutiny was the military coup last week that ousted the elected government of national leader Aung San Suu Kyi, but its roots were in Myanmar’s tangled history of ethnic discord.The defiant police are mostly, if not all, local recruits from the Kayah ethnic minority, also known as the Karenni, while the senior officer is an outsider representing the central government and military, which are both dominated by the country’s Burman majority.Ethnic minorities have resented Burman control and struggled for greater autonomy at least since Myanmar became independent from British colonial rule. Kayah activists tangled bitterly with Suu Kyi’s government in 2019, when they sought the removal of an unwanted statue of Myanmar’s independence leader, Gen. Aung San, Suu Kyi’s father.The protests against the statue were reportedly put down by police using water cannons, rubber bullets and tear gas — the same weapons police began to use this week against protesters opposed to the coup that ousted Suu Kyi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/in-rural-myanmar-residents-protect-police-who-reject-coup-101613017183481.html
11-02-2021||World||Kuwait currency peg in spotlight as nation runs short of cash||The Kuwaiti dinar’s peg to a basket of currencies is coming under scrutiny as concerns grow that one of the world’s richest nations is running short of cash.Derivatives are showing signs of pressure after 12-month forward contracts on the Kuwaiti dinar rose to about 280 points in the offshore market Wednesday, the highest since June. Most other Gulf currency forwards have declined this year as the recent recovery in oil prices eases the risks to their energy-dependent economies.While other Gulf Arab states tapped global debt markets to bolster strained finances amid the pandemic, Kuwait has been hamstrung by lawmakers’ resistance to approve a law that would enable the government to borrow. Concern over how Kuwait will cover its budget deficit has become more acute after the government transferred the last of its performing assets to the country’s sovereign wealth fund in exchange for cash.Ultimately, analysts and investors say the government will be forced to act to shore up the nation’s finances, whether by breaking the borrowing deadlock or imposing taxes to increase revenue. As a last resort, the dinar could be devalued, but it’s not clear how effective that would be in terms of bolstering the economy, they say.“Risks of devaluation are limited,” said Todd Schubert, head of fixed-income research at Bank of Singapore Ltd., which holds Kuwait’s sovereign, corporate and bank debt. The country could tap capital markets some time in the first half of 2021, he said.“I expect the necessary reforms to be passed as the available options such as monetizing sovereign wealth fund assets are limited.”Fitch Ratings predicted the government would replenish its General Reserve Fund -- the main source of budget financing -- even without any new legislation by parliament. At the same time, it cut the outlook on Kuwait’s debt rating to negative from stable last week to reflect “near-term liquidity risk.”Wider SpreadsThat move contributed to a drop in the nation’s Eurobonds, sending the spread on $3.5 billion of sovereign debt due March 2022 to the widest since November. The country hasn’t tapped global debt markets since 2017 and the bonds’ scarcity value normally keeps prices stable.In 2007, Kuwait became the first Gulf Arab state to abandon its currency peg to the dollar in favor of a basket, reacting to a decline in the U.S. currency that had pushed up the cost of imports, fueling inflation.“I’m not aware of anyone speculating or hedging their Kuwaiti dinar exposure, though I wouldn’t be surprised if a hedge fund somewhere thinks it’s a trade,” said Ali Al-Salim, a Gulf-based co-founder of Arkan Partners, a consulting company for alternative investments including hedge funds and private equity.According to Al-Salim, the central bank’s latest disclosures suggest its foreign-asset position remains stable.“Kuwait’s economic challenges can’t be resolved via its currency alone,” he said. “It has a very narrow economy dominated by oil revenues, and expenses that are almost entirely imports. A weaker currency would create limited incremental demand for locally produced goods and services.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/kuwait-currency-peg-in-spotlight-as-nation-runs-short-of-cash-101613017205487.html
11-02-2021||World||Justin Trudeau calls up Narendra Modi, seeks Covid-19 vaccine shipment||In what could be a turning point in relations between New Delhi and Ottawa, Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau has reached out to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and requested a shipment of Covid-19 vaccines.PM Modi took to Twitter to say that he “was happy to receive a call from my friend, @JustinTrudeau” and added, “Assured him that India would do its best to facilitate supplies of Covid vaccines sought by Canada. We also agreed to continue to collaborate on other important issues like climate change and the global economic recovery.”Later, Trudeau tweeted that he had a “good discussion” with Modi “on many important issues” and they had “agreed to stay in touch”.Indian officials said the vaccines manufactured in India will be those from AstraZeneca, sourced from the Serum Institute of India (SII). The dispatch of shipments of the AstraZeneca vaccine to Canada is believed to be “imminent” and only awaiting emergency-use authorisation by public health authorities in Canada. Verity Pharmaceuticals, a firm based in the Greater Toronto Area town of Mississauga, is believed to be working with SII for the imports.There is optimism that the vaccine deal will also result in an improvement in ties between the two countries that were affected after Trudeau had made controversial remarks about the ongoing farmers’ protest in India late last year. His remark had attracted a sharp reaction from New Delhi.That subject was mentioned obliquely in a readout issued by the Canadian PMO, but couched in diplomatic language. It said, “The leaders discussed Canada and India’s commitment to democratic principles, recent protests, and the importance of resolving issues through dialogue.”A senior official said this was a “respectful and generic formulation” that applied to protests in both countries, whether they are against farm laws in India or over indigenous rights in Canada.The call, which lasted nearly half an hour, was described as “positive”.The Indian statement said Trudeau informed Modi “about Canada’s requirements of Covid-19 vaccines from India” and the latter “assured the Canadian PM that India would do its best to support Canada’s vaccination efforts, just as it had done for many other countries already”.“Expressing his appreciation, Prime Minister Trudeau said that if the world managed to conquer Covid-19, it would be significantly because of India’s tremendous pharmaceutical capacity, and Prime Minister Modi’s leadership in sharing this capacity with the world,” it added.During a media interaction on Wednesday, Trudeau echoed that sentiment, saying, “I can highlight that India has been a great partner in fighting Covid, whether it’s helping us with delivery of other pharmaceuticals or whether it’s working together on potential vaccines.”The Canadian PMO’s release recognised “India’s significant efforts in promoting vaccine production and supply, which have provided vital support to countries around the world”.It said the “two leaders agreed to work together on access to vaccines’ and “recognised the need for continued global coordination to respond to the pandemic and to promote recovery”.Another significant topic of conversation appeared in the Canadian readout, as it stated the two PMs “reaffirmed their common interests in a free and open Indo-Pacific”. This is the formulation that has been used by the Quad nations - the United States, Australia, Japan and India - and signals that Canada is increasingly inching closer to the group as its relations with China continue to sour.The Trudeau government has faced criticism in recent weeks as its projected inoculation programme has run into difficulty due to shortage of vaccine shipments from Pfizer and Moderna.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/justin-trudeau-calls-up-narendra-modi-seeks-covid-19-vaccine-shipment-101613026813753.html
11-02-2021||World||White House officials back economist Lisa Cook for Fed Board||Economist Lisa Cook has the backing of several key White House officials and allies outside the administration as a possible choice for President Joe Biden in filling a vacancy on the Federal Reserve Board of Governors, according to people familiar with the matter.Cook, who teaches at Michigan State University, is also on the steering committee of the Washington Center for Equitable Growth, a think tank co-founded by White House adviser Heather Boushey. Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen was previously on the steering committee.Biden has not weighed in on choices for filling the one current vacancy on the Fed board and the White House has not contacted Cook for the job specifically, the people said on the condition of anonymity. No announcement is imminent, they added.A White House spokeswoman declined to comment, and Cook did not immediately respond to an inquiry. She received a Ph.D. in economics from the University of California at Berkeley, and bachelor’s degrees from Spelman College in Atlanta and Oxford. Axios reported earlier on her name emerging as a possible contender for the board.Also read| New York stadiums to reopen for sports, entertainment at 10% of normal capacityBiden may need to fill four vacancies at the Fed over the coming year, depending on whether he opts to keep former President Donald Trump’s appointees in place. Jerome Powell’s term as chair comes due early next year, as does the board membership of Vice Chair Richard Clarida. Governor Randy Quarles’s term as vice chair for financial supervision expires later this year.One governor post is vacant after Trump’s attempt to place controversial economic adviser Judy Shelton on the Fed board failed in the US Senate.Biden’s economic agenda includes efforts to bridge the inequality gap in the US, with an eye on diversity in key federal appointments. If nominated and confirmed by the Senate, Cook would be the only Black woman on the Fed board.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/white-house-officials-back-economist-lisa-cook-for-fed-board-101613019978991.html
11-02-2021||World||Covid-19: UK lockdown review on Feb 15, US officials pitch for '2 masks'||Out of 2,352,098 global Covid-19 deaths, a total of 471,195 have been reported from the US as the country, worst-hit by the pandemic, is still reeling under it with the number of single-day infections sill hovering around 95,000. According to John Hopkins Coronavirus Resource Centre, the US recorded 95,360 cases and 3,131 deaths in the last one day. It has also administered 44,769,970 covid vaccines, with 10,469,514 people — 3.20 % of the population — fully vaccinated.The US Centre for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) has come up with a study showing wearing two masks — a cloth mask over a three-ply medical procedure mask — offer more protection against Covid-19 than just one mask.Meanwhile, two cases of South African coronavirus strains have been reported in California.Also read| India records 12,923 new Covid-19 cases; more than 7 million vaccinated thus farNew York will allow large stadiums and arenas to reopen for sports and concerts later this month, with sharply limited capacity and other restrictions. Chicago plans to resume in-person school after students have been away from it for almost a year. Mexico has approved China’s CanSino for emergency use on people of age 18 or older.The United Kingdom, on the other hand, is at the fourth spot globally with a total of 3,996,787 Covid-19 cases and 115,067 deaths so far, as per John Hopkins coronavirus resource centre. The lockdown imposed in the wake of the new variant will come to an end on February 15. The UK has administered 13,162,878 doses of the Covid-19 vaccine with 516,392 people fully vaccinated which is 0.78% of the population. There have been 12,441 new cases and 1,052 deaths reported in the last 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-uk-lockdown-review-on-feb-15-us-officials-pitch-for-2-masks-101613018892039.html
11-02-2021||World||Suu Kyi aide among new wave of arrests in Myanmar as Biden approves sanctions||A close aide to ousted Myanmar leader Aung San Suu Kyi was detained in a new wave of arrests following last week's military coup, a party official said on Thursday, as Washington moved a step closer to imposing sanctions on the junta.The aide, Kyaw Tint Swe, had served as minister for the office of the state counsellor under Suu Kyi, who has been detained since the Feb. 1 coup.Kyi Toe, an information committee member of Suu Kyi's National League for Democracy (NLD), said Kyaw Tint Swe and four other people linked to the previous government had been taken from their homes overnight.He said officials of the electoral commission had also been arrested overnight, including some down to township level, but he did not immediately have an exact number of those arrested.The military launched the coup after what it said was widespread fraud in November elections, won by the NLD in a landslide. The electoral commission had rejected those claims.Myanmar authorities did not immediately respond to a request for comment and Reuters was unable to confirm the arrests independently. Scores of officials have been detained since the coup.US President Joe Biden on Wednesday approved an executive order for new sanctions on those responsible for the coup, and repeated demands for the generals to give up power and free civilian leaders.Biden said the order enabled his administration "to immediately sanction the military leaders who directed the coup, their business interests as well as close family members."Washington would identify the first round of targets this week and was taking steps to prevent the generals in Myanmar, also known as Burma, having access to $1 billion in Myanmar government funds held in the United States."We're also going to impose strong exports controls. We're freezing U.S. assets that benefit the Burmese government, while maintaining our support for health care, civil society groups, and other areas that benefit the people of Burma directly," Biden said at the White House.The Feb. 1 coup and detention of Suu Kyi presents Biden with his first major international crisis, and a test of his dual pledges to re-center human rights in foreign policy and work more closely with allies.U.S. State Department spokesman Ned Price said Washington was rolling out collective actions with partners on Myanmar."We can impose substantial costs ourselves. We can impose costs that are even steeper ... by working with our like-minded partners and allies," he told a briefing.ASIAN INFLUENCEEven so, analysts say Myanmar's new junta will not be as isolated as previous iterations, with China, India, Southeast Asian neighbours and Japan unlikely to cut ties given the country's strategic importance.Derek Mitchell, a former US ambassador to Myanmar, said it was vital to get nations such as Japan, India and Singapore involved in a strong response."The key will not be just what America does," he said. "It’s going to be how we get others along with us, allies who may have more skin in the game, more leverage, or at least better relationships with the key players."The United Nations' top human rights body is to consider a resolution on Friday drafted by Britain and the European Union condemning the coup and demanding urgent access for monitors.However, diplomats said China and Russia - which both have ties to Myanmar's armed forces - are expected to raise objections or try to weaken the text. The UN Security Council issued a statement last week calling for Suu Kyi's release but stopping short of condemning the coup.Also read: Myanmar largest trade union joins civil disobedience movement: ReportAlso read: Myanmar military raids Suu Kyi's party offices as UN slams violenceFESTIVE PROTESTSProtests spilled into a sixth straight day on Thursday.Hundreds of workers lined a road in the capital Naypyitaw in support of the Civil Disobedience Movement, chanting anti-junta slogans and carrying placards that read "reject military coup" and "save Myanmar". Some held up pictures of Suu Kyi with the words "we trust our leader".After a woman was shot in violent clashes on Tuesday, protests on Wednesday took on a festive air, with bare-chested body builders, women in ball gowns and wedding dresses, farmers on tractors and people with their pets.The protests have revived memories of almost half a century of direct army rule, punctuated with bloody army crackdowns, until the military began relinquishing some power in 2011.Washington's sanctions are likely to target coup leader Min Aung Hlaing and other top generals who are already under US sanctions imposed in 2019 over abuses against Rohingya Muslims and other minorities.It could also target military holding companies with investments spanning sectors including banking, gems, copper, telecoms and clothing.Suu Kyi, 75, won the 1991 Nobel Peace Prize for campaigning for democracy and remains hugely popular at home despite damage to her international reputation over the plight of the Rohingyas.She has spent nearly 15 years under house arrest and now faces charges of illegally importing six walkie-talkies. Her lawyer says he has not been allowed to see her.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/suu-kyi-aide-among-new-wave-of-arrests-in-myanmar-as-biden-approves-sanctions-101613010561572.html
11-02-2021||World||Hate crime, violence feared in Polish 'LGBT-free zones'||Poland's "LGBT-free zones" - nearly 100 regions, towns and cities that have passed anti-gay resolutions - could encourage hate crime and spur violence, according to a European human rights body.The European Union has also criticised the zones, which began appearing in 2019 when Poland's nationalist government started campaigning against the rights of lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people."These resolutions are part of a broader attack against the LGBT community in Poland, which include growing hate speech by public and elected officials and public media," the report said.The 94 local authorities have all passed resolutions opposing "LGBT ideology" - something Poland says has no legal ramifications - or have signed a "family charter", which activists says only supports heterosexual, married couples.Advocates say the "LGBT-free zones" have bred violence, including attacks on two Pride marches in 2019, and contributed to poor mental health among young, LGBT+ Poles.On Wednesday, a local-government body representing 820 million Europeans in 47 countries added its critique in a report for the Council of Europe, the continent's main human rights body."By naming people as an ideology, they dehumanise them," said Andrew Boff, who co-wrote the report for the Congress of Local and Regional Authorities."This then gives rise to violence and discrimination against that community ... What other reason is there for these resolutions?" he told the Thomson Reuters Foundation by phone.Polish officials did not respond to requests for comment.International pressure is growing on Poland's nationalist government, with regions that oppose "LGBT ideology" labelled "humanity-free zones" by EU president Ursula von der Leyen.Reported hate crimes against LGBT+ people more than doubled to 150 in 2019, according to official data cited in the report. Only 16% of Polish LGBT+ people reported the latest homophobic attack they had suffered to police, a 2020 EU survey found.Poland says the local resolutions have no legal standing."(They) are only opinions and do not affect rights and obligations of the residents," Poland's minister of funds and regional policy, Malgorzata Jarosinska-Jedynak, said in an October letter to Norwegian officials.Some countries and international organisations have suspended funding for the conservative southern and eastern Polish regions that passed the resolutions.Norway has suspended 3.5 million euros ($4.2 million) of funding for two cultural projects. In July, the EU rejected six applications for town-twinning grants of up to 25,000 euros from such authorities. ($1 = 0.8246 euros)Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/lifestyle/relationships/hate-crime-violence-feared-in-polish-lgbt-free-zones-101613016070307.html
11-02-2021||World||New Covid-19 cluster in Australia's Melbourne sparks mass testing||Health authorities in Australia's Victoria state ramped up contact tracing and prepared for more mass testing of residents in Melbourne after a new COVID-19 cluster linked to a quarantine hotel grew to eight cases on Thursday.More than 22,500 test results were conducted in the past 24 hours in Australia's second most populous city Melbourne and authorities urged residents to get tested amid fears of community transmission from a worker at the Holiday Inn in the city.The new outbreak in Melbourne, where the Australia Open tennis tournament is underway, has stirred fears of a fresh wave of infections in the state hardest hit by COVID-19.Victoria had more than 20,000 cases last year and over 800 deaths, forcing authorities to implement a strict lockdown lasting more than 100 days, the most severe action taken by any Australian state.The latest outbreak, which was likely sparked by a medical device known as a nebuliser being used by a COVID-positive guest at the hotel, consists of three hotel workers and two returned travellers in quarantine.The remaining guests have been transferred to another hotel to serve out their quarantine and more than 100 hotel workers have been placed in isolation.Australia has been among the world’s most successful countries in handling the novel coronavirus, largely because of decisive lockdowns and borders sealed to all but a trickle of travellers, with some 22,000 cases and 909 deaths.But its quarantine hotels, where all international arrivals spend two weeks, have proved to be a weak link in its defences with the cluster in Melbourne the latest to emerge from one.The most populous state of New South Wales on Thursday reported zero new cases. Other large states - Queensland and Western Australia - are yet to report their numbers.Australia was one of the first countries to call for an inquiry into the origins of COVID-19, which was first reported in the Chinese city of Wuhan, an action that sparked a diplomatic backlash from Beijing which has since slapped hefty duties or banned several Australian products from its shores.The Sydney Morning Herald reported on Thursday that an Australian scientist, part of the World Health Organisation (WHO) team investigating the origins of COVID-19, told the paper he believed the virus began in China, despite WHO’s official findings remaining inconclusive."I think the evidence for it starting elsewhere in the world is actually very limited. There is some evidence but it’s not really very good," said Professor Dominic Dwyer, a microbiologist and infectious diseases expert with NSW Health.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/new-covid-19-cluster-in-australia-s-melbourne-sparks-mass-testing-101613014357782.html
11-02-2021||World||Singapore Airlines begins flights with fully vaccinated crew||Singapore Airlines (SIA) began operating flights on Thursday with full sets of crew members vaccinated against Covid-19 as the city-state seeks to rejuvenate its status as an international travel hub.The airline said pilots and cabin crew on three international flights from Singapore had received both of the required doses of the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine.The Singapore government has urged workers at the national airline to sign up for its inoculation program in a bid to make SIA the world's first carrier with all staff vaccinated against Covid-19.Singapore Airlines said Thursday's three flights with a fully vaccinated crew - to Jakarta, Bangkok and Phnom Penh - were among the first in the world.Also read| New York stadiums to reopen for sports, entertainment at 10% of normal capacityThe carrier said more than 90% of its cabin crew and pilots have signed up for the vaccine. Around 85% of those have received at least the first dose, and many have begun getting the second dose, it added. SIA expects all those who have signed up to receive the second dose by the end of March.Singapore, a major international trade and travel hub, lacks a domestic travel market and international travel is expected to take until 2024 to rebound to 2019 levels, according to industry estimates.Abu Dhabi's Etihad Airways said on Wednesday that its flights were only being operated by pilots and cabin crew who had been vaccinated, which a spokeswoman later said meant had received at least one dose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/singapore-airlines-begins-flights-with-fully-vaccinated-crew-101613012727913.html
11-02-2021||World||Pak SC orders immediate rebuilding of vandalised Hindu temple||Pakistan's Supreme Court has ordered the Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa government to immediately start rebuilding a century-old Hindu temple that was vandalised by a mob in the province, and submit a timeline for its completion.The attack on the temple in Terri village in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa's Karak district by members of radical Jamiat Ulema-e-Islam party (Fazal ur Rehman group) in December drew strong condemnation from human rights activists and the minority Hindu community leaders, prompting the apex court to order its reconstruction last month.On Monday, a three-judge apex court bench, headed by Chief Justice Gulzar Ahmed, heard the suo motu case regarding the burning of the temple, The Express Tribune reported.During the proceedings, Justice Gulzar said, "Inform us if any recovery or arrest has been made on the temple issue in Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa?"Also read: Pakistan lawmaker says Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa govt will rebuild Hindu temple vandalised by mobAlso watch: Pakistan: Hindu temple vandalised in Sindh; activist says only 20 of 428 leftIn January, the apex court had ordered the provincial government to recover the money for the construction of the temple from those who had burnt it.Evacuee Trust Property Board lawyer Ikram Chaudhry apprised the bench that no recovery has been made so far on the temple issue, the paper said."The government had approved ₹30.41 million for the reconstruction of the temple," Chaudhry informed the bench.Justice Ijazul Ahsan said that the court had ordered to recover the money from those who burnt the temple so that they could learn a lesson."Evacuee Trust Property Board chairman should be summoned and a detailed report containing all the progress made so far be submitted in court," Justice Gulzar said.The Evacuee Trust Property Board is a statutory board that manages religious properties and shrines of Hindus and Sikhs who had migrated to India following the partition.Ramesh Kumar, head of the Hindu Council and a member of the National Assembly, said that the Chief Minister Mahmood Khan had said that the Karak area was sensitive and that the reconstruction of the temple in Karak should be done by the Hindu community."The KP government will later reimburse the cost of building the temple."The KP additional advocate general said that according to the law, tender should be issued for the reconstruction of the temple.Justice Gulzar directed authorities to ensure that the Prahladpuri temple in Multan is prepared for the Holi festival falling on March 28.The chief justice directed the Evacuee Trust Property Board chairman, Punjab IG and chief secretary to ensure security at the Multan shrine.The bench summoned the Evacuee Trust Property Board chairman on the next hearing and adjourned the suo motu case till next Monday.Hindus form the biggest minority community in Pakistan.According to official estimates, 75 lakh Hindus live in Pakistan. However, according to the community, over 90 lakh Hindus are living in the country.The majority of Pakistan's Hindu population is settled in Sindh province where they share culture, traditions and language with Muslim residents. They often complain of harassment by the extremists.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pak-sc-orders-immediate-rebuilding-of-vandalised-hindu-temple-101613010684613.html
11-02-2021||World||Migration through Panama resumes after pandemic lockdown||After nearly a year stalled in migrant camps at the edge of the jungle, hundreds of migrants have begun to move across Panama and into neighbouring Costa Rica in recent weeks.Panama closed its borders last March to try to slow the COVID-19 pandemic. Nearly 2,000 migrants suddenly found their years-long journey toward the United States suspended.But on January 29, Panama announced it was reopening its land borders, setting off a surge of migration through the dense jungle covering the Colombia-Panama border.On Wednesday afternoon, more than 50 migrants trudged out of the dense Darien jungle into the village of Bajo Chiquito, the first community they encountered after days of walking. Pregnant women, adults carrying babies in their arms and others with bags of clothing balanced atop their heads forded a river and then scrambled up the bank to waiting border police.They were told to line up to register their entry into Panama. No measures — temperature checks or social distancing — against coronavirus infection were on display. Only one man carrying his daughter wore a mask.Kerline Mervilier, a 29-year-old from Haiti, made it into the line and collapsed complaining of pain in her legs. She had traveled with boyfriend Isaac Cadichon from Brazil. She left Haiti for Brazil in December 2019, but after losing her job in a beauty salon there decided to migrate again.They started to walk into the jungle in Colombia on Friday, emerging in Panama five days later. They were among 287 migrants who entered Panama Wednesday, according to border police.“I hope to get to a destination where I can find work,” Mervilier said, holding her passport and that of her boyfriend in her hands. Her mother lives in New Jersey. “My country is a tragedy and forces us to look for a new life. We had to climb mountains. They assaulted me and stole $160 while I walked.”There were some 400 migrants in Bajo Chiquito on Wednesday and more have been arriving every day as others continue on. It’s a three-hour boat ride to the nearest highway. They recover from their jungle walk in an array of colorful tents pitched beside the border police station and on a basketball court.Many of the migrants are Haitians, but others come of Cuba, Venezuela and various African and Asian countries.As they continue into Panama, many pass through a new migrant camp in San Vicente, also in Darien, but reachable by road.Paul Saenz, a 27-year-old electrician from Haiti, flew to Ecuador in December. He then took a bus to Colombia near the Panama border, joined other Haitian migrants and crossed the jungle into Panama in three days. He said Tuesday he wanted to make it to the US to help his family back in Haiti.The new US administration with a kinder tone toward immigrants gave him hope.“I hope it goes well for us,” he said. “This president (Joe Biden) is better than the other who was a little harder.”Ovidia Fernández, left Havana, Cuba two years ago with her daughter Anabel. They spent time in Guyana, Brazil, Peru, Ecuador and Colombia. They arrived in San Vicente on Sunday after walking through the jungle for 13 days.“There could be a chance of entering the United States,” she said. “There are people who believe that with the change (of administration) there’s hope.”José Bernal, local commissioner for Panama’s National Borders Service said the flow of migrants typically picks up during this time of year, when the rains pause. He said the pandemic restrictions sharply decreased the number of migrants who passed through last year to 8,000, down from 24,000 in 2019.“The American dream continues driving people to move despite the pandemic,” Bernal said.Idiam Osorio, a specialist with the UN’s International Organization for Migration in Panama, said the change of government in the US was just one among a variety of factors spurring people to migrate. “We don’t dismiss that this issue (the new US administration) is also connected to the growing motivation of migrants who have started to move, but the reasons are diverse, including economic (reasons),” she said.Saenz and other recent arrivals stay at two migrant camps in Laja Blanca and San Vicente in the Darien area that borders Colombia. The first is made up of tents and portable toilets, while the second, which opened in late September, has small prefabricated buildings for the migrants.Panama’s National Immigration Service said that since January 29, some 551 migrants have left those camps and moved to Panama’s border with Costa Rica, something they previously had not been allowed to do during the pandemic.The agency also says that only 168 migrants were currently in its camp in Los Planes, Chiriqui near that border, suggesting that the others had continued on into Costa Rica.Officials said Tuesday that an estimated 1,000 migrants were in Darien, including 276 of whom arrived Monday night to small community of Bajo Chiquito, the first populated area migrants emerging from the jungle encounter. Immigration officials said they expect another 800 migrants to arrive from Colombia in the coming days.Haitian Wisnel Olly, 41, had recently arrived with his wife and their 4-month-old twins. The twins were born in Chile where the family had lived for the past two years.Unlike Saenz, Olly said it took his family two weeks to cross the Darien jungle. Their goal was to continue on as soon as possible with the goal of making it to Mexico “where we’ll be taken care of.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/migration-through-panama-resumes-after-pandemic-lockdown-101613009153582.html
11-02-2021||World||Imran Khan should not blame others for his party's actions: PDM chief Rehman||After Prime Minister Imran Khan's alleged that Pakistan Democratic Movement chief made 'vast amounts of money' while selling votes during Senate polls, Maulana Fazlur Rehman said that the premier should not redirect the blame to others for the actions of his party workers and said that his 'conscience was clear'.Earlier in the day, Khan had alleged that Fazl had made "vast amounts of money" while selling votes during the polls for the upper house of the Parliament, reported Geo News.The allegations came in the backdrop of a leaked video that showed Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) lawmakers receiving large amounts of money, ahead of Senate elections in 2018.The Pakistan Democratic Movement (PDM) chief also commented that corruption had increased in PTI's tenure according to Transparency International and voices demanding accountability are now growing louder within the ruling party."All of the state's institutions are there to serve the masses and they should perform their responsibilities in the parameters of Constitution," Rehman said.Despite the video showing his party lawmakers accepting bribes, Imran Khan, while reacting to the video earlier on Tuesday, said that his government was determined to "stop the cycle of money laundering and corruption", reported Geo News.According to a report by Geo News, the video showed a couple of PTI Members of National Assembly (MNAs) taking money from Mohammad Ali Bacha, former MPA of the Pakistan Peoples Party (PPP) before the Senate elections in 2018.In the video, stacks of currency are seen in the video atop a table in front of the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa PTI Members of Provincial Assembly (MPAs).This comes days after Pakistan President Arif Alvi had signed the Elections (Amendment) Ordinance 2021 to pave the way for Senate elections to be held via an "open and identifiable ballot".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/imran-khan-should-not-blame-others-for-his-party-s-actions-pdm-chief-rehman-101613005826037.html
11-02-2021||World||Joe Biden in call with China's Xi Jinping raises human rights, trade||Joe Biden on Wednesday held his first call as president with Xi Jinping, pressing the Chinese leader about trade and Beijing's crackdown on democracy activists in Hong Kong and other human rights concerns.The two leaders spoke just hours after Biden announced plans for a Pentagon task force to review US national security strategy in China and after the new US president announced he was levying sanctions against Myanmar's military regime following this month's coup in the southeast Asian country.A White House statement said Biden raised concerns about Beijing’s “coercive and unfair economic practices." Biden also pressed Xi on Beijing's crackdown in Hong Kong, human rights abuses against Uighur and ethnic minorities in Xinjiang, and its actions toward Taiwan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-in-call-with-china-s-xi-jinping-raises-human-rights-trade-101613010663429.html
11-02-2021||World||US Capitol police to hold 'no confidence vote' against senior leadership||Members of the US Capitol police are planning to hold a vote of no confidence in the force's leadership this week over its failure to adequately prepare officers for the January 6 insurrection by a violent mob of former President Donald Trump's supporters.The Capitol Police union's executive board called this week for the no-confidence vote against members of senior leadership, including acting Chief Yogananda Pittman, Assistant Chief Chad Thomas, Acting Assistant Chief Sean Gallagher, and Deputy Chiefs Timothy Bowen, Jeffrey Pickett and Eric Waldow, reported The Hill."The enormity of the multiple leadership failures both in leading up to the insurrection and in the Department's response to it, have convinced us there is no other choice. The leadership has failed us, and we have paid a terrible price," Gus Papathanasiou, the Capitol Police union chairman, said in a statement.Over 140 police officers between the Capitol Police and Metropolitan Police forces were injured. Some officers sustained brain injuries, one is expected to lose an eye and another officer was stabbed with a metal fence stake, according to The Hill.On January 6, a group of Trump supporters stormed the US Capitol to protest legislators confirming electoral slates from battleground US states they thought were invalid.Five people died in the riot, including one Air Force veteran and a Trump supporter who was shot dead by police.Following the violence, the US House of Representatives on Wednesday impeached Trump for "inciting" last week's deadly violence at Capitol Hill, making him the first US President to be impeached twice.Trump is currently undergoing his second impeachment trial, where House managers seek to prove that Trump incited violence by stubbornly refusing to accept the election defeat and bar him from holding any public office including running for president in 2024.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-capitol-police-to-hold-no-confidence-vote-against-senior-leadership-101613009170177.html
11-02-2021||World||Biden backs off on TikTok ban in review of Trump's China moves||The Biden administration is backing off former President Donald Trump's attempts to ban the popular video app TikTok, asking a judge to postpone a legal dispute over the proposed ban as the government begins a broader review of the national security threats posed by Chinese technology companies.A court filing Wednesday said the U.S. Commerce Department is reviewing whether Trump's claims about TikTok's threat to national security justified the attempts to ban it from smartphone app stores and deny it vital technical services.Separately, the Biden administration has “indefinitely” shelved a proposed U.S. takeover of the TikTok, according to a Wall Street Journal report. Last year, the Trump administration brokered a deal that would have had U.S. corporations Oracle and Walmart take a large stake in the Chinese-owned app on national-security grounds.The unusual arrangement stemmed from a Trump executive order that aimed to ban TikTok in the U.S. unless it accepted a greater degree of American control.White House press secretary Jen Psaki did not deny the Journal report, but said Wednesday the Biden administration hasn't taken a “new proactive step” in the process.Psaki added that the Biden administration is comprehensively evaluating risks to U.S. data, including those involving TikTok. A review of TikTok by the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States, which considers national security implications of such investments, is ongoing, Psaki said. She didn't offer a timetable for that process.Trump targeted TikTok over the summer with a series of executive orders that cited concerns over the U.S. data that TikTok collects from its users. But courts temporarily blocked the White House’s attempted ban, and the presidential election soon took overshadowed the TikTok fight.While President Joe Biden has said TikTok is a concern, his administration hadn't said whether it will continue to try to ban TikTok or force a sale. Biden has so far taken a cautious approach to inheriting Trump’s China policies and hasn’t promised to scale back or cancel tariffs and other combative measures.The Biden administration appears to be creating a clearer set of criteria to evaluate which Chinese technology platforms pose a legitimate security risk to Americans, said Samm Sacks, a China expert at Yale Law School.“I don’t think they see TikTok itself as a high-priority issue,” she said, calling it a hypothetical future threat. “This one-off ban on a rotating cast of Chinese tech companies, that’s not likely to continue.”In September, Trump gave his tentative blessing to a proposal by TikTok’s Chinese owner ByteDance that would form a new U.S. arm of TikTok in partnership with Oracle and Walmart, who would make significant investments in the new company. The arrangement aimed to hand management of the app's U.S. user data to Oracle. CFIUS, however, has not completed its required review of the arrangement. A government deadline for TikTok to sell its U.S. operations has passed.TikTok is now looking to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit to review Trump’s divestment order and the government’s national-security review.TikTok and Oracle didn't return requests for comment Wednesday. Walmart declined comment Wednesday and referred questions to the Biden administration.The Treasury Department, which chairs the CFIUS agency reviewing the TikTok deal, did not reply to a request for comment. Neither did the Commerce Department, which last year had sought to enforce Trump’s orders, nor the Justice Department, which is handling the court challenges.The Chinese government's stance toward the deal is unclear. State media in September criticized the proposal as U.S. bullying and extortion.Trump cited concerns that the Chinese government could spy on TikTok users if the app remains under Chinese ownership. TikTok has denied it’s a security threat but said it was still trying to work with the U.S. government to resolve its concerns.TikTok said Oracle and Walmart could acquire up to a combined 20% stake in the new company ahead of a TikTok initial public offering, which Walmart said could happen within the next year. Oracle’s stake would be 12.5%, and Walmart’s would be 7.5%.Where Oracle stood to handle data management, Walmart said it would provide e-commerce, fulfillment, payments and other services to the new company. TikTok said in a November court filing that the new entity, owned by Oracle, Walmart and ByteDance's existing U.S. investors, would be responsible for TikTok’s U.S. user data and content moderation.The Trump administration’s aggressive tactics were part of a broader effort to counter the influence of China. During his term in office, Trump waged a trade war with China, blocked mergers involving Chinese companies and stifled the business of Chinese firms like Huawei, a maker of phones and telecom equipment.The Biden administration shares many of the Trump administration’s concerns about Chinese technology and trade practices, but they’re likely to use “different tactics and tone on how to achieve those strategic objectives,” said Martijn Rasser, a senior fellow at the Center for a New American Security.“They’re taking a holistic, strategic approach to these issues and not going after these companies on a one-off basis,” he said. “It’s part of a broader reassessment.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-backs-off-on-tiktok-ban-in-review-of-trump-s-china-moves-101613000949952.html
11-02-2021||World||Myanmar protesters back on streets despite police violence||Large crowds demonstrating against the military takeover in Myanmar again defied a ban on protests Wednesday, even after security forces ratcheted up the use of force against them and raided the headquarters of the political party of ousted leader Aung San Suu Kyi.Witnesses estimated that tens of thousands of protesters, if not more, turned out in Yangon and Mandalay, the country’s biggest cities. Rallies also took place in the capital Naypyitaw and elsewhere.The protesters are demanding that power be restored to Suu Kyi’s deposed civilian government. They are also seeking freedom for her and other governing party members since the military detained them after blocking the new session of Parliament on Feb. 1.“As part of Generation Z, we are first-time voters. This is our first time to protest as well,” said one student who declined to give her name for fear of harassment. “They negated our votes, and this is totally unfair. We do not want that. We hope they release our leaders and implement a real democracy.”The military says it acted because November’s election, which Suu Kyi’s National League for Democracy won in a landslide, were marred by irregularities. The election commission had refuted the allegation.Some demonstrators in Yangon gathered at foreign embassies to seek international pressure against the coup.A small group outside the Japanese Embassy held signs and chanted “We want democracy, we get dictators!” They sat in several children's wading pools, three or fewer per pool, in what appeared to be a tongue-in-cheek way of showing compliance with an emergency law that bans gatherings of more than five people.Others marched through the city, chanting and waving flags of Suu Kyi’s party.Another group hauled a fake coffin as part of a mock funeral for Senior Gen. Min Aung Hlaing, the military chief who is the country’s new leader.Civil servants in many areas have been risking their jobs to march with the protesters, and even some police have switched sides to oppose the coup. In a dramatic video shot Wednesday in a small village in Kayah State in eastern Myanmar, a group of 42 policemen and women declared their allegiance to the ousted elected government and resisted the entreaties of a senior officer to return to duty. Local residents flocked to their side to ward off any effort to arrest them.The head of the U.N. International Labor Organization, Guy Ryder, urged Myanmar’s military leaders “to ensure that workers and employers are able to exercise their freedom of association rights in a climate of complete freedom and security, free from violence and threats.”“I call on the military to immediately remove orders restricting assemblies of more than five persons, a halt to the repression of dissenting voices and the full respect of workers’ fundamental and human rights and freedoms,” Ryder said. “I urge military leaders to ensure no workers, including civil servants, are detained, intimidated or harassed for participating in peaceful protests.”The burgeoning protests and the junta’s latest raid suggest there is little room for reconciliation. The military, which ruled directly for five decades after a 1962 coup, used deadly force to quash a massive 1988 uprising and a 2007 revolt led by Buddhist monks.In Naypyitaw and Mandalay on Tuesday, police sprayed water cannons and fired warning shots to try to clear away protesters. In Naypyitaw, they shot rubber bullets and apparently live rounds, wounding a woman protester, according to witnesses and footage on social media. The reports could not be independently confirmed.Human Rights Watch cited a doctor at a Naypyitaw hospital as saying the woman was in critical condition. The doctor said the woman had a projectile lodged in her head, believed to be a bullet that had penetrated the back of the right ear, and had lost significant brain function. The doctor said a man had been also been treated with an upper body wound consistent with that of live ammunition.State television network MRTV, in one of its few reports on the protests, on Tuesday night broadcast scenes it claimed showed the protesters were responsible for the violence.“Myanmar police should immediately end the use of excessive and lethal force” the New York-based watchdog urged.No major incidents were reported in connection with the big turnout at Wednesday's protest in Mandalay. Social media users said 82 people who had been arrested were freed due to the work of local lawyers.Medical students and personnel, lawyers and Buddhist monks were among a huge cross-section of residents who marched in Mandalay, but the most social media buzz was generated by a contingent of shirtless muscled men with well-defined six-packs who were said to be members of a fitness gym.Yangon’s most photogenic marchers were a group of young women who dressed in formal gowns more suitable for a wedding reception.The military on Tuesday night raided the national headquarters of Suu Kyi’s party, which before the military seized power had been slated to take power for a second five-year term.Kyi Toe, a spokesman for the party, wrote on Facebook that the army broke into the headquarters in Yangon and another office and took away documents and computer hardware. The headquarters was shuttered Wednesday.U.S. President Joe Biden ordered new sanctions Wednesday, saying he was issuing an executive order that will prevent Myanmar’s generals from accessing $1 billion in assets in the United States. Biden added that more measures are to come.“The military must relinquish power it seized and demonstrate respect for the will of the people of Burma,” he said.A day earlier, the U.S. had “strongly” condemned the violence against demonstrators.“We repeat our calls for the military to relinquish power, restore democratically elected government, release those detained, and lift all telecommunication restrictions, and to refrain from violence,” State Department spokesman Ned Price said.New Zealand suspended all military and high-level political contact with Myanmar, Foreign Minister Nanaia Mahuta announced in Wellington, adding that any New Zealand aid should not go to or benefit Myanmar’s military government.The U.N. Human Rights Council, the 47-member-state body based in Geneva, is to hold a special session on Friday to consider “the human rights implications of the crisis in Myanmar.”Britain and the European Union spearheaded the request for the session, which will amount to a high-profile public debate among diplomats over the situation in Myanmar and could lead to a resolution airing concerns about the situation or recommending international action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/myanmar-protesters-back-on-streets-despite-police-violence-101613000970865.html
11-02-2021||World||US pharmacies to offer Covid-19 vaccines from today. All you need to know||With the Biden administration targeting 150 million shots injected within its first 100 days of office, pharmacies in the United States will begin to offer Covid-19 vaccines from February 11 under the federal retail pharmacy program. The program would initially be limited to 6,500 participating pharmacies in the US and will eventually be expanded to around 40,000 pharmacies. The US government will allocate vaccines under the pharmacy program based on the population of the states and the program is expected to be slow at first because of the limited supply of the vaccines.What will be the cost of the Covid-19 vaccine?The vaccine is free of charge for everyone. Participating pharmacies will bill private and public insurance for the vaccine administration fee. For uninsured patients, the fee will be reimbursed through the Health resources and services administration’s provider relief fund.Which pharmacy chains will be part of the program?According to the White House, the program will include, Walgreens, CVS pharmacy, Walmart, Rite Aid, Kroger, Publix, Costco, Albertsons, Hy-Vee, Meijer, H-E-B, Winn-Dixie and retail business services like Food Lion, Giant Food, The Giant Company, Hannaford Bros Co, Stop & Shop.How to get the vaccination?Individuals who are eligible for vaccination and are interested in getting vaccinated will have to check the CDC website to see if their local pharmacy is participating in the program and then call or check with their local pharmacy’s website to find out if the vaccine is available. Most pharmacy partners will be using online scheduling systems to schedule vaccination visits for eligible individuals.Who will be receiving vaccination under this program?The eligibility criteria for the vaccination will be determined by each state individually and the pharmacy partners will focus on vaccinating individuals who are eligible for vaccination based on these state-selected criteria.What will be the screening process that the pharmacies will use during the vaccination?Pharmacies will screen individuals to determine their vaccination eligibility according to the state’s vaccination plan for which individuals may be asked about their age, occupation, or underlying medical conditions. But pharmacies will not require any proof of age, occupation, or any other type of credentials. This means that no specific identification documents are required for the vaccination process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-pharmacies-to-offer-covid-19-vaccines-from-today-all-you-need-to-know-101613007626467.html
11-02-2021||World||US calls for China to end 'unacceptable' detention of Canadians||The United States on Wednesday (local time) rejected China's use of coercion as a political tool and called on the People's Republic of China (PRC) to end the 'unacceptable detention of two Canadian citizens."When it comes to the detention of Micheal Spavor and Michael Kovrig, we continue to publicly call on the PRC to end the arbitrary and unacceptable detention of these Canadian citizens. We reject the PRC's use of coercion as political tool," said US State Department spokesperson Ned Price in a press briefing.This comes after US State Secretary Antony Blinken had a telephonic conversation with his Chinese counterpart Yang Jiechi during which he conveyed that Washington will continue to stand up for human rights and democratic values, including in Xinjiang, Tibet, and Hong Kong, and will hold Beijing accountable for its abuses of the international system.Last year, Canada had walked away from the free trade talks with Beijing amid souring relations over a Huawei executive's arrest and the detention of two Canadians in apparent retaliation.According to Canadian foreign minister Francois Philippe Champagne, Beijing's "arbitrary detention" of former Canadian diplomat Michael Kovrig and businessman Michael Spavor on suspicions of espionage, in response to the December 2018 arrest of telecom's giant Huawei's chief financial officer Meng Wanzhou on the US warrant during a stopover in Vancouver are the reasons behind the shelving of the talks.Relations between Ottawa and Beijing soured after Canadian authorities detained Wanzhou in 2018 at the request of the US, which was followed by the arrests of two Canadian nationals on charges of espionage in China, reported Sputnik.The tense relationship has been further exacerbated by Canada's condemnation of the newly enacted Chinese law on national security in Hong Kong and a suspension of some bilateral agreements with the special administrative region.Beijing has said that it reserves the right to respond to any interference on Canada's part and the Canadian side will be held accountable for all the consequences.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-calls-for-china-to-end-unacceptable-detention-of-canadians-101613007344326.html
11-02-2021||World||Joe Biden visits a Pentagon hoping to shift from Trump turmoil||President Joe Biden visited the Pentagon on Wednesday for the first time as commander in chief, taking stock of the military as it pivots from the turmoil of the Trump years and focuses to an unusual degree on domestic and internal issues.Biden was meeting with Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin and other senior military and civilian leaders, and addressing the Pentagon workforce.As defense leaders await direction from Biden on possible new approaches to overseas security threats, Austin is treating the coronavirus pandemic as a top priority and ordering fresh assessments of how to root out sexual assault and extremism in the military's ranks.Austin himself is in the spotlight after winning Senate confirmation as only the third recently retired military officer to lead the Pentagon. Critics have questioned whether his appointment, which required a congressional waiver, weakens the principle of civilian control of the military.Austin moved quickly to surround himself with a core of civilian assistants, including Kelly Magsamen, a defense policy expert and former Pentagon official who is now his chief of staff. The deputy defense secretary is Kathleen Hicks, a policy expert and the first woman to win Senate confirmation for that position.Austin spent 41 years in the Army, retiring in 2016 as a four-star general after heading US Central Command. During Biden's years as vice president in the Obama administration, he worked with Austin on winding down U.S. involvement in Iraq, where Austin was the top commander in 2010-11.During the Trump administration, the Pentagon endured a loss of top-flight civilian talent, in part because of instability at the top. Trump had two Senate-confirmed defense secretaries, as well as three secretaries who held the role in an acting capacity. Morale suffered and some senior positions went unfilled.Biden had considered choosing Michele Flournoy to lead the Pentagon; she would have been the first woman in that job. Instead he picked Austin, who is the first Black defense secretary and in Biden's view is the right person at a time of evolving security threats and continuing risk from the coronavirus.On his first day in office, Austin issued a message to the force that emphasised his commitment to finding ways the military can help the government move “further and faster” to fight the pandemic. Already there are more than 24,000 National Guard members providing logistical support for the vaccine program and giving as many as 50,000 shots per day.Last week, the Pentagon announced it will deploy more than 1,100 troops to five vaccination centers at the request of the Federal Emergency Management Agency. This marks the first wave of increased military support for the national vaccination campaign.The military is preparing to deploy the first team of about 222 service members to a vaccination center in California, and it says it is ready to deploy four similar teams to other centers when FEMA is ready. FEMA has asked the Pentagon to supply as many as 10,000 troops to staff 100 centers, but Austin is approving the teams incrementally as the locations are identified.Austin also is pushing for policy adjustments to account for the effects of climate change on military missions, as well as the consequences of extreme weather events on domestic military bases.Austin is preparing to address other Biden priorities, including an assessment of how to deal with the national security challenges posed by China's modernized and more assertive military. He has said he intends to visit the Asia-Pacific region as early in his tenure as possible.The Pentagon is participating in an administration assessment of the peace deal the Trump administration struck with the Taliban one year ago. The deal requires the United States to withdraw all of its troops from Afghanistan by May, a deadline the Biden administration is reassessing.Austin also is launching a broad review of how U.S. forces are positioned around the world. In announcing his “global force posture review” last week, he said it will assess the military “footprint, resources, strategy and missions.”On the home front, Austin has inherited the aftereffects of the Jan. 6 insurrection on Capitol Hill. On Inauguration Day, there were about 26,000 National Guard troops in Washington providing security, though the number as of Tuesday had dropped to 6,200. The number is expected to drop to about 5,000 by the end of the month, with the remainder gone by mid-March.In addition to his ordered reviews of sexual assault programs and extremism in the ranks, Austin has launched a review of all defense advisory panels as part of a move to purge several dozen people who were last-minute appointments in the final weeks of the Trump administration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-visits-a-pentagon-hoping-to-shift-from-trump-turmoil-101613006796973.html
11-02-2021||World||WHO expert group recommends use of AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine||Independent experts advising the World Health Organization on Wednesday recommended the use of AstraZeneca's vaccine even in countries that turned up worrying coronavirus variants in their populations.There had been doubts about the vaccine's effectiveness against a variant that emerged in South Africa.The advice is used by health care officials worldwide, but doesn't amount to a WHO green light for the UN and its partners to ship the vaccine. That approval could come after separate WHO group meetings on Friday and Monday to assess whether an emergency-use listing for the AstraZeneca vaccine is warranted.Wednesday's recommendations largely mirror those issued earlier by the European Medicines Agency and UK regulator MHRA.The AstraZeneca vaccine is important because the UN-backed COVAX Facility, which aims to deploy coronavirus vaccines to people in need around the world whether in rich or poor countries, hopes to start shipping hundreds of millions of doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine starting later this month.Dr. Soumya Swaminathan, the WHO's chief scientist, called the findings from the Strategic Advisory Group of Experts an “important milestone.”She noted that the vaccine requires storage at refrigerator temperatures — not the far colder temperatures required of the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine that the group has already recommended for use. So far, the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine is the only one to receive a WHO emergency use listing.The expert group noted that “preliminary analyses” showed the AstraZeneca vaccine had reduced effectiveness against coronavirus variants that have emerged in Britain and South Africa.SAGE also said international travelers shouldn't get preference for vaccine doses, saying that would “counter the principle of equity” as well as a lack of evidence about whether vaccinations reduces the risk of transmission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/who-expert-group-recommends-use-of-astrazeneca-covid-19-vaccine-101613006544893.html
11-02-2021||World||Covid-19 origin probe ends, politics over it continues||China called on the US on Wednesday to invite the World Health Organization (WHO) to investigate the origins of the Covid-19 outbreak there, as sparring over the pandemic continued after the WHO wrapped up its field work in the Chinese city of Wuhan.Hours after the WHO team revealed preliminary findings at a Wuhan news conference on Tuesday, Washington said it wants to scrutinise data used by the team, which concluded that the coronavirus causing Covid-19 did not originate in a laboratory in Wuhan, and that bats remain a likely source.“We wish that the US side can, like China, uphold an open and transparent attitude, and be able to invite WHO experts to the US to conduct origin tracing research and inspection,” Chinese foreign ministry spokesman Wang Wenbin said.Also Read | WHO's Wuhan team identifies two ‘most likely' scenarios of Covid-19 transmission to humansThe origins of the pandemic, which first emerged in Wuhan in 2019, are highly politicised, with China claiming that the virus has roots outside its borders.White House press secretary Jen Psaki said on Tuesday that the Biden administration had not been involved in the “planning and implementation” of the WHO investigation and wants to take an independent review of its findings and underlying data.Peter Daszak, a member of the WHO team, waded directly into the geopolitics surrounding the pandemic origin story.Biden “has to look tough on China”, he said in a tweet. “Please don’t rely too much on US intel: increasingly disengaged under Trump & frankly wrong on many aspects.”Peter Ben Embarek, who heads the WHO-led team that spent four weeks in China, said the investigation has not dramatically changed its picture of the outbreak.Meanwhile, two new Covid-19 variants, one of which has been classified as a “concern”, have been identified in England with similarities to the South African and Brazilian variants, a government advisory scientific committee said on Tuesday. Both are being probed. One of the new variants, first identified in Bristol, has been designated a “Variant of Concern”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-origin-probe-ends-politics-over-it-continues-101613006039261.html
11-02-2021||World||Pentagon establishes task force to meet China challenge||The Pentagon has established a task force to provide recommendations in the next few months to address the challenge posed by China, US President Joe Biden said Wednesday."The task force will work quickly, drawing on civilian and military experts across the Department, to provide, within the next few months, recommendations to (Defense) Secretary (Lloyd) Austin on key priorities and decision points so that we can chart a strong path forward on China-related matters,” Biden said in his remarks during his maiden visit to the Pentagon on Wednesday."It will require a whole-of-government effort, bipartisan cooperation in Congress, and strong alliances and partnerships. That's how we'll meet the China challenge and ensure the American people win the competition of the future,” he said.To be headed by Special Assistant to the Secretary of Defense, Dr. Ely Ratner, the task force will provide its final findings and recommendations no later than four months after establishment. No final public report is anticipated, although the Department will discuss recommendations with the Congress and other stakeholders as appropriate, the Pentagon said in a statement.In his address, Biden said that the US needs to take on the dangers and opportunities of emerging technologies, enhance its capabilities in cyberspace, ensure that America is positioned to lead in a new era of competition, from deep sea to outer space.“And we need to meet the growing challenges posed by China to keep the peace and defend our interests in the Indo-Pacific and globally,” he said. Vice President Kamala Harris also visited the Pentagon along with Biden.Biden, Austin and Harris did a walk-through tour of the African-American heritage hall at the Pentagon.Meanwhile, Senator Rob Portman urged the Biden Administration to reconsider its decision to withdraw a rule proposed by the Trump Administration to require American schools and universities to disclose partnerships with Confucius Institutes and Classrooms.“The Biden Administration's decision to withdraw this rule is deeply disappointing and surprising considering the serious nature of China's efforts to expand its influence operations inside the United States. I urge them to reconsider,” Portman said.Congressman John Katko, lead Republican of the House Committee on Homeland Security, also opposed the move of the Biden Administration to withdraw a proposed rule requiring US educational institutions to disclose their relationship with Confucius Institutes, entities in US colleges and schools funded by China's Ministry of Education.In another development, Senator Bob Menendez, Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, and Senator Marco Rubio, Co-Chair of the Congressional-Executive Commission on China (CECC), called on Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos to detail the nature of his company's dealings with Dahua Technology Co., a Chinese company that has reportedly developed facial recognition software to recognise and report detection of Uyghur Muslims to Chinese authorities, facilitating the Chinese government’s ongoing genocide and other crimes against humanity against the Uyghur people.“These reports are extremely disturbing, and show that the comprehensive surveillance system that Chinese authorities have deployed against the Uyghurs is just as bad as we had feared, if not worse,” the Senators wrote, citing troubling software features including the “Real-time Uyghur Warnings” that report individuals with specified facial traits to Chinese security forces immediately.The Senators in their letter also raised questions concerning Bezos’ awareness of Dahua Technology's status on the Commerce Department's Entity List when his company entered into negotiations and agreed to a USD10 million contract with the Chinese company as well as Amazon's criteria to determine when to terminate a business relationship with an entity that engages in human rights violations.“While buying equipment from Dahua Technology is not illegal, it does raise several questions for you as the Chief Executive of Amazon,” the Senators added. “If these allegations against Dahua are true, it would mean that Amazon willfully ignored guidance from the United States government and purchased equipment from an entity-listed company that is complicit in China's atrocities against the Uyghurs.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pentagon-establishes-task-force-to-meet-china-challenge-101613005850045.html
11-02-2021||World||Covid-19 conspiracies fuel anti-semitic incidents in UK: Report||The number of anti-Semitic incidents recorded in Britain has fallen from record levels but still remains high, with conspiracy theories about the Covid-19 pandemic playing a role, a Jewish advisory body said on Thursday.The Community Security Trust (CST), which advises Britain’s estimated 280,000 Jews on security matters, said there had been 1,668 incidents in 2020, a fall of 8% from the previous year which had been the highest on record.Despite the decrease, the CST said it was still the third-highest number they had reported since the data was first collected in 1984."The COVID-19 outbreak has not merely given rise to a new medium through which offenders express anti-Semitic sentiment; it has provided them with new strands of anti-Semitic discourse as well," the report said.The CST said there had been 41 incidents connected to the pandemic, from conspiracy theories of Jewish involvement in spreading the disease for malevolent and financial purposes, to expressions of hope that Jews would catch the virus and die.Although there were fewer incidents at schools or synagogues because of strict pandemic lockdowns, there was a rise in cases at people’s homes, the report said.Of the total incidents, 100 were rated as violent, a 39% fall from the year before, although three were classified as "Extreme Violence", meaning they involved potential grievous bodily harm or a threat to life."It is shameful that in the 21st century, the Jewish community still faces racist abuse and the desecration of their synagogues and other religious and community sites," Home Secretary (interior minister) Priti Patel said.The record incidents of 2019 were fuelled in part by accusations of anti-Semitism in the opposition Labour Party.In October, the Equality and Human Rights Commission (ECHR) said Labour was responsible for unlawful harassment and discrimination in its handling of allegations of anti-Semitism, leading to the party suspending its former leader Jeremy Corbyn.The CST said there had been 175 incidents in 2020 connected to Labour, a decline from previous years, although there was a spike at the time of the ECHR report and after the decision to keep Corbyn out of the parliamentary party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-conspiracies-fuel-anti-semitic-incidents-in-uk-report-101613004425064.html
11-02-2021||World||Brexit poses ‘existential’ threat to some UK firms, BCC says||Many UK small firms are facing an “existential” threat as they grapple with obstacles Brexit has imposed on trade with the European Union, one of the country’s largest business groups said.About half of UK exporters are experiencing difficulties, mainly in the form of extra documentation, higher costs, and delays to shipments, according to a survey of 465 firms by the British Chambers of Commerce. About 95% of the respondents were small businesses.Since Britain left the EU’s single market and customs union on Jan. 1, firms have had to adapt to a raft of new paperwork when sending goods to the EU, the UK’s biggest and closest trading partner. Agricultural exports -- in particular food and meat -- have been particularly badly hit by the need to provide export health certificates signed by a qualified vet, leaving trucks that once moved freely across the Channel facing days-long delays at times.Companies “are being hit hard by changes at the border,” said Adam Marshall, director-general of the BCC. “For some firms, these concerns are existential.”Businesses are also bracing for extra controls which will apply to imports from the EU from April and July, threatening to coincide with rising economic activity as the UK emerges from lockdown restrictions. Marshall said the government should postpone these controls, and significantly increase the support it offers to firms.“This situation could get worse,” he said. “These timescales need to change.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/brexit-poses-existential-threat-to-some-uk-firms-bcc-says-101613004075377.html
11-02-2021||World||UK's Duchess Meghan to hear if she has won privacy case or if it will face trial||Meghan, Britain's Duchess of Sussex, will learn on Thursday whether she has won her privacy battle against a tabloid newspaper without the case going to a potentially-embarrassing trial which could see her face off against her father. Meghan, 39, the wife of Queen Elizabeth's grandson Prince Harry, is suing publisher Associated Newspapers after its Mail on Sunday tabloid printed extracts of the handwritten letter she sent to her estranged father, Thomas Markle, in August 2018.She says the articles breached her privacy and copyright, and last month her lawyers asked London High Court judge Mark Warby to rule in her favour without the need for trial later this year, arguing the paper had no chance of winning.Warby is due to hand down his verdict at 1600 GMT.Meghan wrote the five-page letter to Markle after their relationship collapsed in the run-up to her glittering wedding to Harry in May 2018, which her father missed due to ill health and after he admitted posing for paparazzi pictures.The Mail published extracts in Feb. 2019, and has argued it did so to allow Markle to respond to comments made by Meghan's anonymous friends in interviews with the US magazine People.In two days of hearings, her lawyers say printing the "personal and sensitive" letter was a "triple-barrelled" assault on "her private life, her family life and her correspondence" and plainly breached her privacy.The paper argued the duchess always intended the letter's contents to become public and it formed part of a media strategy, pointing out she had admitted in court papers discussing it with her communications secretary.If the judge rules against Meghan, it raises the prospect of the duchess, former senior royal aides and her father all giving evidence in court."It was only by publishing the text of the letter that I could properly set the record straight and show that what People magazine had published was false and unfair," Markle said in a witness statement in support of the Mail.The trial had been due to start in January but was delayed until late 2021 at Meghan's request last year because of a confidential reason.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uks-duchess-meghan-to-hear-if-she-has-won-privacy-case-or-if-it-will-face-trial-101613002846181.html
11-02-2021||World||Biden, Xi plan first call as soon as Wednesday evening in US||President Joe Biden and Chinese President Xi Jinping are preparing to speak on Wednesday for the first time since the new administration in Washington took office last month, according to two people familiar with the matter.The conversation between the leaders of the world’s two biggest economies will take place as tensions remain high over issues including Beijing’s tightening grip on Hong Kong, trade, technology and human rights in Xinjiang, among other issues.A White House spokesperson didn’t respond to a request for comment.The call was arranged after Biden had spoken with numerous other counterparts around the world, including European and Asian allies and even Russian President Vladimir Putin.Xi and Biden have pledged to find common ground where they can, including on topics such as climate change. Yet Biden and his team have been clear that they intend to maintain the Trump administration’s more adversarial approach to China, with Secretary of State Antony Blinken saying in his confirmation hearing that China “poses the most significant challenge of any nation state to the United States.”In a visit to the Pentagon on Wednesday, Biden said he had directed Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin to establish a task force to review national security policy with respect to China.US-China tensions weren’t eased during a recent call between Blinken and top Chinese diplomat Yang Jiechi, according to two people familiar with the matter. Chinese officials objected to what they said was an overly negative tone to the American summary of the call, while Blinken’s team felt China’s readout put words in the secretary of state’s mouth over the “One China” policy regarding Taiwan.China has generally approached the US cautiously since Biden’s election and Trump’s unprecedented campaign to challenge the result. While Xi sent Biden a congratulatory message in late November, he hasn’t spoken with a sitting US president since last March.Soon after that last call, Washington and Beijing launched into a series of disputes that saw their relationship sink to its lowest point since the height of the Cold War. In recent months, the two nations have traded sanctions, expelled journalists, closed each other’s consulates and clashed over everything from Taiwan to the origins of the coronavirus.Biden has met Xi repeatedly over the years, including as vice president, and until recently touted what he said was his friendship with the Chinese leader. He gave a harsher assessment on the campaign trail last year, calling Xi a “thug” who “doesn’t have a democratic -- with-a-small-‘d’ -- bone in his body.”Trade with China will be a top economic priority for Biden. China failed to meet its 2020 trade targets under the Trump administration’s “phase one” agreement, buying just under 60% of the $172 billion worth of goods it said it would purchase. That could lead to calls for Biden to re-negotiate the deal, which is to expire within a year.The two countries have also clashed over technology, with the US seeking to curb the growth of Chinese tech champions. The Trump administration used export controls, entity lists and executive orders to block companies including Huawei Technologies Co., chip maker Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corp., ByteDance Ltd. and Tencent Holdings Ltd. from American goods and consumers.The status of the democratically run island of Taiwan, which Beijing considers part of its territory, has also re-emerged as one of the biggest flash points between the two sides. Trump oversaw a dramatic expansion of ties with Taipei, including a visit by then-Health and Human Services Secretary Alex Azar last August.Chinese leaders usually seek to get their American counterparts to reaffirm the country’s commitment to the One China policy. Trump recommitted to upholding the policy, which recognizes the People’s Republic as the sole legal government of China, during his first call with Xi in 2017, and State Department spokesman Ned Price said at another briefing that the Biden administration won’t change that position.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-xi-plan-first-call-as-soon-as-wednesday-evening-in-us-101612999124833.html
11-02-2021||World||Covid-19 variant gains momentum in US as total cases plummet||A covid variant first found in the UK is infecting Americans at a pace that far outstrips the original strain, which arrived in the spring.In the 43 days since B.1.1.7 was first found in the US, more than 900 cases have been reported. At around the same point, the first strain had infected only 165 people, though testing capacity was significantly weaker.Even as overall daily cases decline, the B.1.1.7 mutation is burgeoning more quickly than others first seen in Brazil and South Africa. As of Tuesday, there were 932 reported cases of the UK variant among 34 states, according to data from the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.Florida reported the most variant infections at 343, followed by California. The two states account for more than half of the national variant cases. Early research has shown the strain to be more transmissible and may carry an increased risk of death.Researchers are still learning about the new iterations, and cases in the US are likely undercounted due to capacity constraints in identifying strains. The CDC bases its figures on a sampling of positive SARS-CoV-2 specimens. As of late January, the agency’s surveillance system was capable of testing about 750 samples per week, and the CDC is contracting with commercial labs for added capacity.Increases in variant cases come as daily infections across the country are seeing the most significant drop since the pandemic began. But the new versions are spreading quicker than Covid-19 initially did in the US and one could surpass it to become the predominant virus.The UK is a world leader in genomics, the science used to identify new strains. The country’s Department of Health and Social Care announced last month it would share its capacity to test for variants with other countries.Nationally, the US posted 92,986 new Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, bringing the seven-day average to 107,612, Covid Tracking Project data show. As of early Wednesday, there had been at least 468,500 reported deaths in the US, according to Johns Hopkins University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-variant-gains-momentum-in-us-as-total-cases-plummet-101612994047504.html
11-02-2021||World||Iran produces uranium metal, IAEA says, in latest breach of deal||Iran has carried out its plan to produce uranium metal, the U.N. atomic watchdog confirmed on Wednesday, despite Western powers having warned Iran that would breach their 2015 nuclear deal as uranium metal can be used to make the core of an atom bomb.Iran began breaching its nuclear deal with major powers step by step in 2019 in response to US President Donald Trump's withdrawal from the deal the previous year and Washington's reimposition of sanctions on Tehran.Iran has in recent months accelerated those breaches of the deal's restrictions on its atomic activities, potentially complicating efforts to bring the United States back into the deal under President Joe Biden.A law passed in response to the killing of its top nuclear scientist in November, which Tehran blames on its foe Israel, called for steps including opening a uranium metal plant. Iran told the International Atomic Energy Agency in December it planned to produce uranium metal fuel for a research reactor."Director General Rafael Mariano Grossi today informed IAEA Member States about recent developments regarding Iran's R&D activities on uranium metal production as part of its stated aim to produce fuel for the Tehran Research Reactor," the IAEA said in a statement.Wednesday's report, seen by Reuters, and a previous one said that Iran planned to carry out research on uranium metal using natural uranium before moving on to uranium metal enriched to 20%, the level it is enriching uranium to now, short of the 90% that is weapons grade."The Agency on 8 February verified 3.6 gram of uranium metal at Iran's Fuel Plate Fabrication Plant (FPFP) in Esfahan," the IAEA statement added.France, Britain and Germany, all parties to the deal, last month said they were "deeply concerned" and that Iran's uranium metal production had no civilian credibility but potentially serious military implications.The 2015 deal's central aim was to extend the time Iran would need to produce enough fissile material for a nuclear bomb to at least a year from roughly 2-3 months. Iran, however, denies ever pursuing nuclear weapons and says it only wants to use nuclear energy for peaceful purposes.US intelligence agencies and the IAEA believe Iran had a secret, coordinated nuclear weapons programme that it halted in 2003.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/iran-produces-uranium-metal-iaea-says-in-latest-breach-of-deal-101612992155282.html
11-02-2021||World||‘What trial?’ Life goes on in Trump world as ex-president faces 2nd impeachment||The diamonds were sparkling in New York. A carpenter working at a San Francisco skyscraper shrugged. There were no bar specials at the hotel near the White House, just a menu that includes cocktails called Belle of Congress and Bitter Life.As the Senate began Donald Trump’s second impeachment trial, indifference reigned at properties across the billionaire’s empire on Tuesday. There were moments of disgust and adoration from some tenants, workers and customers, but mostly they seemed not to care -- or even know -- about what was going on inside Congress.For Trump, once a reality television host with his own catchphrase for firing people, the unprecedented second impeachment is proceeding after accusations that he incited a mob at the US Capitol in an attempt to overturn November’s election. But in the midtown Manhattan space he rents out to Tiffany & Co. and at the California tower he co-owns, even on the ice of the Central Park rinks that New York City is taking away from his management, life went on.Also Read | Senate agrees to hear Trump impeachment case, rejecting GOP arguments“I’m not going to watch -- it’s depressing,” carpenter James Keenan said in the minutes before the trial began. He was sipping an iced tea on the steps of San Francisco’s 555 California St., one of two towers that Trump co-owns with Vornado Realty Trust. The Trump Organization’s 30% stake in the pair is worth an estimated $685 million, its most valuable holding.Keenan, 49, has done jobs at the 52-story office building off and on since 1989. Now it’s mostly a “ghost town” as the coronavirus pandemic keeps workers at home.He thought the property was owned by a Japanese billionaire until his company’s truck driver recently told him about Trump. He doesn’t care either way. “I’m a fiscal conservative,” he said before returning to work on the 46th floor. “As long as the economy’s good, I’m good.”In New York, Mariana Legotska walked onto the ice of Central Park’s Wollman Rink wearing a pink sweater, pink gloves, a pink coat with a furry white hood and a furry black bag. A tourist from Kiev, she had little interest in the drama unfolding in D.C.“What trial?” she said. “I just want to do this because I want the feeling of skating.”After the Capitol riot, New York City terminated all contracts with Trump, whose company operates two rinks and the carousel in Central Park, plus the Ferry Point golf course. The Trump Organization has said it will “vigorously” fight the move.Also Read | Trump impeachment: What is ‘January exception’ House managers argued against?When the trial kicked off around 1 p.m., a trader who was watching his young son learn to skate said he didn’t care that Trump is still managing the rink. A few minutes later, as senators approved the rules, Anne Blatt’s 9-year-old granddaughter asked her what an impeachment is. Blatt, a Trump fan who says she wants to be his customer, was still feeling too weak after getting Covid-19 last year to skate.As House managers opened their presentation with an intense video that combined Trump’s rhetoric with scenes of the attacking mob, 18-year-old Judi Zeidan said she wouldn’t support anything with Trump’s name on it, and was only skating because her school paid. She was recording the trial to watch later.At other properties, it was business as usual. It was still morning at the Trump National Golf Club outside of Los Angeles when the trial was getting underway, and the only TV turned on showed golf videos while a patio grill served burgers and hot dogs. Later, two golfers gushed about the course and shrugged off the mob violence, and a foursome on a work retreat said the hearing just stirred up negative energy.Inside Trump’s hotel in Washington, once a hub for the administration and its fans and lobbyists, the lounge was quiet except for a few guests. Two televisions were tuned to ESPN2 and Fox Sports, and two others showed impeachment coverage from CNN and Fox News.More than 11 million people tuned in Tuesday afternoon to watch the proceedings on TV. Comcast Corp.’s MSNBC network led with 2.87 million total viewers, according to Nielsen. Fox News was third, behind CNN, at 1.95 million.Around 2 p.m., Democrats argued that two centuries of precedent and common sense make clear that former officials must be tried by the Senate when impeached. In New York, inside Trump Tower’s Gucci store, a salesman was showing off custom-made chairs that cost thousands of dollars.Around the corner, at the building’s residential entrance, a doorman in a dark coat with golden buttons said he doesn’t follow the news. There are good presidents and bad presidents, he said, and nothing changes.As the day went on, Trump’s lawyers argued that the former president’s trial is a politically motivated attempt to remove him as a challenger to Democratic power. After four hours of arguments from House impeachment managers and the defense, the Senate voted to affirm that it’s constitutional to try an official who’s no longer in office.Before the day ended, investor Michael Kimble, a specialist in high-yield bonds, went on an afternoon shopping trip. He was looking for a pearl necklace at the Tiffany store in Trump’s 57th Street building.“It doesn’t matter,” he said. “I’m not going to boycott their store if they say something I don’t agree with.”Giant digital letters scrolled up Tiffany’s five floors, spelling out a message: “Winner takes all.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/what-trial-life-goes-on-in-trump-world-as-ex-president-faces-2nd-impeachment-101612991666819.html
11-02-2021||World||US President Joe Biden announces new Pentagon task force on China||US President Joe Biden announced Wednesday the formation of a special Defense Department task force on China and ordered an immediate review of the military's strategic approach to the challenge from Beijing.Speaking during a visit to the Pentagon, Biden said the review was crucial "so that we can chart a strong path forward on China-related matters that will require a whole-of-government effort.""We need to meet the growing challenges posed by China to keep peace and defend our interests in the Indo-Pacific and globally," he added.The new task force was given four months to come up with assessments and recommendations on US military strategy toward China; technology, force structure and force posture; and alliances and bilateral defense relations with Beijing.He said the Pentagon review needed to be backed by both political parties and Congress, and from allies and other partnerships."That's how we will meet the China challenge and ensure the American people win the competition in the future," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-president-joe-biden-announces-new-pentagon-task-force-on-china-101612991447663.html
11-02-2021||World||Iranian nuclear scientist killed by one-ton automated gun in Israeli hit: Report||The Iranian nuclear scientist assassinated near Tehran in November was killed by a one-ton gun smuggled into Iran in pieces by the Israeli intelligence agency Mossad, according to a report by The Jewish Chronicle on Wednesday.Citing intelligence sources, the British weekly said a team of more than 20 agents, including Israeli and Iranian nationals, carried out the ambush on scientist Mohsen Fakhrizadeh after eight months of surveillance.Reuters was not immediately able to confirm the report, which was published on the website of the London-based newspaper.Iranian media said Fakhrizadeh died in hospital after armed assassins gunned him down in his car. Shortly after his death Iran pointed the finger at Israel, Foreign Minister Javad Zarif writing on Twitter of “serious indications of (an) Israeli role."Israel declined to comment in November and on Wednesday night an Israeli government spokesman responded to the latest report by saying: “We never comment on such matters. There has been no change in our position.”Fakhrizadeh, 59, was long suspected by the West of masterminding a secret nuclear bomb programme.He had been described by Western and Israeli intelligence services for years as the mysterious leader of a covert atomic bomb programme halted in 2003, which Israel and the United States accuse Tehran of trying to restore. Iran has long denied seeking to weaponise nuclear energy.According to the Jewish Chronicle’s report, Iran has “secretly assessed that it will take six years” before a replacement for him is “fully operational” and that his death had “extended the period of time it would take Iran to achieve a bomb from about three-and-a-half months to two years.”Giving no further details of its sourcing, the world's oldest Jewish newspaper said the Mossad mounted the automated gun on a Nissan pickup and that “the bespoke weapon, operated remotely by agents on the ground as they observed the target, was so heavy because it included a bomb that destroyed the evidence after the killing.”It said the attack was carried out “by Israel alone, without American involvement” but that U.S. officials were given some form of notice beforehand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/iranian-nuclear-scientist-killed-by-one-ton-automated-gun-in-israeli-hit-report-101612991001032.html
11-02-2021||India||Supreme Court refuses bail to anti-CAA activist Akhil Gogoi||The Supreme Court on Thursday refused bail to Assam-based activist Akhil Gogoi, who was arrested by the Guwahati Police in connection with violence during the mass protests organized in the state against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) passed by Parliament in December, 2019.Gogoi, who is currently lodged in Guwahati Central Jail had approached the top court against the order passed by the Gauhati High Court rejecting bail on January 7 this year. Senior advocate Jaideep Gupta who appeared for the Raijor Dal leader told the apex court that during the agitation that broke out in December 2019, Gogoi’s organization organized mass protests. Three minor incidents of violence were reported across the state but there was no evidence to indicate that the same were at Gogoi’s behest, Gupta argued.With 12 cases lodged against Gogoi now being probed by the National Investigation Agency (NIA), Gupta argued that the acts in question did not amount to terrorism and with the trial being held up due to Covid-19, a ground for releasing the accused on bail was made out.A bench of Justices NV Ramana, Surya Kant and Aniruddha Bose refused to entertain the plea. It said, “Having heard learned senior counsel for the petitioner and carefully perusing the material placed on record, we are not inclined to grant bail to the petitioner at this stage.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-refuses-bail-to-anti-caa-activist-akhil-gogoi-101613066721059.html
11-02-2021||India||Eye on Bengal polls, Amit Shah nurtures Rajbongshi sentiments, showers sops||With an eye on the crucial assembly elections in West Bengal, Union home minister Amit Shah on Thursday announced the formation of a new battalion in the paramilitary forces that would be named after the famed armed troops of the erstwhile princely state of Cooch Behar - Narayani Sena.“In the name of Narayani Sena, the Narendra Modi-led government will set up a new battalion named Narayani Battalion in the central paramilitary forces. The training centre would be named after Chilarai (Shukladhwaj Singha --- a legendary commander of the Koch dynasty),” Shah said while addressing a rally in Cooch Behar.The Rajbongshi community, the largest Scheduled Caste (SC) group of West Bengal, forms around 30% of the population in north Bengal. The formation of a ‘Narayani Sena’ regiment has been an emotive issue for them.Earlier in November 2020, chief minister Mamata Banerjee had also announced the formation of three police battalions one of them being ‘Narayani’ in Cooch Behar to woo the community ahead of the polls.Shah also announced a ₹500-crore cultural centre for the Rajbongshis, setting up a statue of Thakur Panchanan Barma, a Rajbongshi leader and a social reformer from Cooch Behar.He added that the BJP government would develop a tourist circuit comprising Madan Mohan Temple, Kamteshwari Mandir and the birth-place of Panchanan Barma so that people from across India could visit.With Cooch Behar being a district located along the porous Indo-Bangla border, the Union home minister attacked the state’s ruling TMC on cross-border infiltration.“Just the name of Narayani Sena, had left the Mughal army bewildered. Chilarai forced the Mughals to retreat. But today that land is being filled up with infiltrators,” he said.In the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the community, which is numerically significant in North Bengal especially in Cooch Behar district, had helped the BJP to make deep inroads in north Bengal. Shah met Ananta Rai Maharaj in Assam. He is one of the most important Rajbongshi leaders.The TMC is however not far behind in the race. Banerjee had recently announced two separate boards for the Rajbongshi, along with ₹25 crore for the community’s upliftment.Earlier in January, Banerjee said the school education department would inspect 200 informal schools, where education was imparted through Rajbongshi language, to find out whether those could be converted into formal schools.Out of the eight Lok Sabha seats in north Bengal, BJP had won seven in 2019 elections leaving just one for the Congress. The TMC didn’t win any seats. This time both parties are eyeing north Bengal where the Rajbongshi community plays an important role.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eye-on-bengal-polls-amit-shah-nurtures-rajbongshi-sentiments-showers-sops-101613066079903.html
11-02-2021||India||‘A courtesy call’: Bihar CM Nitish Kumar on meeting with PM Modi||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Thursday met Prime Minister Narendra Modi at his Parliament office and held talks on different issues for close to an hour.This was Kumar’s first visit to Delhi after becoming the chief minister for the fourth time in a row. Kumar is also scheduled to meet the President and vice-president. Earlier, on Wednesday, he had a meeting with Union home minister Amit Shah as well. Kumar is on a two-day visit to New Delhi.The meeting with PM and Shah, immediately after the cabinet expansion in Bihar, assumes significance following the impending cabinet expansion at the Centre. Also, it is believed that Kumar in his meeting could have raised the LJP’s continuation in NDA. The Bihar CM, on Wednesday had spoken about the role of the LJP in the Bihar assembly election. “What is going to be the LJP’s role, the BJP has to take a call. We don’t take cognizance of such issues,” he had said.The LJP contested the Bihar assembly polls independently and was instrumental in the defeat of the JD (U) on a number of seats.However, Kumar, after meeting the PM said, “No meaning should be attached to the meeting. It was a courtesy meeting. I did not make any demand and we talked on a range of issues.”“In coalition politics, every party keeps talking to each other on different issues. What are the requirements on environment, education, etc.,” he said and ruled out that any discussions had been held with PM Modi on the Bihar cabinet expansion.The Bihar CM said that his party is with the government on the issue of Farm Bills and that the Centre has opted for the right path by holding talks with the farmer unions agitating against the three laws.“These legislations are in the interest of farmers and not against them. Hopefully, the issue will be resolved soon," he said.Kumar also made light of the claims of rival parties, including the RJD, that his government in Bihar will not last its full term, saying if they are getting publicity out of it, then there is nothing wrong with that. He added in the same vein that these leaders are ignorant of realities.Kumar's meeting with the BJP’s top leadership had also triggered speculation that JD (U) may join hands with the saffron party to contest the West Bengal assembly polls. Kumar, however, said that the party was still to decide on the number of seats it would contest in West Bengal. “Party’s West Bengal wing wants to contest polls and national president R C P Singh is holding discussions with them,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-courtesy-call-bihar-cm-nitish-kumar-on-meeting-with-pm-modi-101613064077905.html
11-02-2021||India||India, Australia discuss situation in Myanmar post military coup||External affairs minister S Jaishankar and his Australian counterpart Marise Payne discussed the situation in Myanmar following a military coup and equitable access to Covid-19 vaccines during a conversation on Thursday.The development reflected the growing coordination between the four members of the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue or Quad on the situation in Myanmar, where the military removed the elected government of Aung San Suu Kyi and assumed power for a year under a state of emergency.“Today @DrSJaishankar and I discussed the situation in Myanmar, equitable & safe access to vaccines and taking forward our Comprehensive Strategic Partnership,” Payne said in a tweet.Australia and India will “work more closely than ever on our shared objectives in the Indo-Pacific” in 2021, she said, without giving details.Jaishankar tweeted that he and Payne had discussed developments in the Indo-Pacific and exchanged views on the situation in Myanmar. “Also on making vaccines accessible & affordable. And a bit of cricket,” he added.Developments in Myanmar had figured in a phone conversation between Jaishankar and US secretary of state Antony Blinken on Tuesday. Blinken had expressed concern at the coup and the importance of rule of law and the democratic process.Blinken also discussed ways to strengthen cooperation with allies and partners of the US to address the military coup in Myanmar during a phone call with Japanese foreign minister Toshimitsu Motegi on Wednesday.Unlike the US, which announced sanctions on Wednesday against the military leaders involved in last week's coup in Myanmar, India has adopted a more cautious position and called for the democratic process to be upheld.India has close ties with both the civilian and military leadership of Myanmar, and the security relationship between the two countries is crucial in view of concerns related to militant groups from the northeastern states that have bases in Myanmar. India’s armed forces have worked with Myanmar’s military in recent years to pressure these groups and push them to the negotiating table.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-australia-discuss-situation-in-myanmar-post-military-coup-101613061012215.html
11-02-2021||India||1 injured in chemical factory fire in Bulandshahr||A worker was injured in a fire which broke out in a chemical factory in Dibai area of Bulandshahr district of Uttar Pradesh on Thursday evening, an official said. Vandana, Dibai’s circle officer, said that the fire broke out at around 7pm and fire tenders struggled for more than two hours to douse the blaze.She said that the fire tenders were called from nearby districts of Sambhal, Aligarh and Gunnaur of Badaun districts to control the fire.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fire-breaks-out-at-chemical-factory-in-bulandshahr-101613059422027.html
11-02-2021||India||Over ₹1,000 crore raised since last month for Ayodhya Ram temple: Trust member||Over ₹1,000 crore has so far been raised for the Ram temple in Ayodhya through the campaign started last month, a member of the trust overseeing the construction of the shrine said on Thursday.Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra secretary Champat Rai said people from all communities have generously donated for the construction of the temple.The accounts of the trust in three nationalised banks show an amount of over ₹1,000 crore, he said.Rai said nearly 1.50 lakh VHP activists are collecting funds for the Ram temple.Thirty-seven activists have been deputed to deposit the donations in the bank accounts.From remote villages, activists are bringing funds and depositing in the bank accounts, he said.Rai said all communities are supporting the fund raising campaign that was started on January 15. The Ram temple trust has opened accounts in the State Bank of India, Punjab National Bank and the Bank of Baroda.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-1-000-crore-raised-since-last-month-for-ayodhya-ram-temple-trust-member-101613059238650.html
11-02-2021||India||Uttarakhand floods: Union home secy holds review meet, assures central help to state||Union home secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla chaired a meeting on Thursday to review the progress of the rescue and relief work being carried out at the hydro project of NTPC at Tapovan on the Dhauliganga River in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli. The hydro project was impacted after Sunday's flash flood triggered by a glacial burst in Chamoli district.“The Union Home Secretary reviewed the action required for regulating the flow of water from a temporary obstruction which has formed upstream from the project,” a release issued by the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) said.Secretary of the ministry of power, director general of the Indo-Tibetian Border Police (ITBP), chief of Integrated Defence Staff (IDS), members of National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA), director general of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), chairperson of the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO), chief executive and managing director of NTPC and scientists from various central agencies along with other senior officers of the MHA attended the meeting, the release added. Uttarakhand’s chief secretary and his team had joined the meeting through video conferencing.The secretary of DRDO had been asked to deploy experts for analysing the situation and taking appropriate measures after coordinating with agencies of the central and state governments. Bhalla further assured all possible assistance from the Centre to the Uttarakhand government.Meanwhile, the death toll after the disaster has now climbed to 35 and 169 people ate still missing. Rescue operations were temporarily stopped on Thursday due to rise in the water levels of the Rishiganga river. An NDRF personnel had told news agency ANI that rising water levels caused the rescue teams to shift to safer locations and work resumed later with a limited number of teams.Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat had earlier agreed to relocate more than 50 families residing in areas that were extremely vulnerable to natural calamities in the state. “The families belong to Astal village in Uttarkashi, Faldia and Saned in Chamoli, Malladesh in Bageshwar and Bethan in Tehri district,” a state government release said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ukhand-floods-union-home-secy-holds-review-meet-assures-central-help-to-state-101613059290949.html
11-02-2021||India||E-commerce giant Amazon moves top court on Future-Reliance deal||United States-based e-commerce giant Amazon has approached the Supreme Court against an order of the Delhi High Court staying the status quo order on the ₹24,713 crore deal between Kishore Biyani-led Future Retail Limited (FRL) and Mukesh Dhirubhai Ambani’s Reliance Retail.On February 8, a Division Bench of the Delhi High Court led by Chief Justice DN Patel had stayed a single judge’s direction of February 2 putting a temporary freeze on the deal between Future Retail and Reliance. The order came on FRL’s appeal seeking stay of the February 2 order where FRL claimed that due to the status quo position, the proceedings before the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) for approving the amalgamation scheme were held up. This could be an “absolute disaster” for the company with its outlets across India being shut and nearly 25,000 employees losing their livelihood.The February 8 order of the Delhi High Court had noted, “Statutory authorities should not be restrained from proceeding in accordance with law on Future-Reliance deal,” while lifting the single judge’s status quo direction.Amazon in its appeal before the Supreme Court has raised a host of legal issues, primary among then being the maintainability of FRL’s petition before the Delhi High Court Division Bench. It was Amazon that had moved the single judge to restrain Future Group from proceeding further with entities of the Reliance Group.The US retail giant banked on the October 25, 2020 Emergency Arbitrator (EA) order passed by the Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC) that restrained FRL from going ahead with the deal with Reliance Retail.The petition by Amazon said, “No provision for appeal is provided against an order passed under Section 17(2) of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act. The respondents (FRL) have not challenged the EA order itself, but have preferred to challenge the single judge order enforcing the EA order.” Further, the foreign retailer stated that the single judge’s status quo order was passed for the limited purpose of preserving the rights of the parties till pronouncement of final orders and the Division Bench ought not to have issued its order “hastily”.Stating consequences of lifting the status quo, Amazon’s petition said, “The greater the progress made towards the completion of the impugned transaction, the harder it will be to unravel it. Over time, the interests of additional third parties may also become entwined with the transaction and be subsequently compromised.”Amazon had contended before the High Court that the award was valid and enforceable against FRL. In its suit, it had even sought detention of Biyanis, directors of Future Coupons Private Limited (FCPL) and FRL and related parties in a civil prison besides attachment of their properties for alleged “willful disobedience” of the EA order. The e-retailer sought stay of the Division Bench’s decision terming it to be illegal, arbitrary, and against principles of natural justice, equity and fair play.After the Division Bench had passed its order, Amazon had requested the High Court to keep its order in abeyance for a week. However, the request was declined by the bench, also comprising Justice Jyoti Singh.It was in August last year, FRL entered into an agreement to sell its retail, wholesale, logistics and warehousing units to Reliance Retail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ecommerce-giant-amazon-moves-top-court-on-future-reliance-deal-101613056990099.html
11-02-2021||India||News updates from HT: Toll plazas losing ₹1.8 cr a day due to farmers' protest, says Gadkari and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Loss of ₹1.8 cr a day at toll booths due to farmers' protest: Nitin GadkariPublic funded toll plazas at highways are facing an estimated loss of approximately ₹1.8 crore per day due to farmers' protests, the Centre informed Parliament on Thursday. Read moreGovt won’t use WhatsApp, other social media for salary communicationThe Centre has decided to rule out its plan to allow WhatsApp and other social media platforms for salary communication of employees under its new labour codes amid privacy concerns and fears that the measure would further legitimise social media for official communication. Read moreGermany to restrict travel with neighbours over virus mutationsGermany plans to impose restrictions on travel from Austria and the Czech Republic over concerns about aggressive mutations of the coronavirus, potentially disrupting cross-country commuters and commerce. Read morePost Covid-19, Tokyo Olympics rules will make it a "different experience", feel athletesTeen shooting sensation Saurabh Chaudhary will be counted upon to fire India to a medal on just the second day of the Tokyo Olympics on July 24. But medal or no medal, Chaudhury's maiden Olympics will be a short affair. Read moreKangana Ranaut gets support over comparison with Meryl Streep and Gal GadotKangana Ranaut retweeted an online poll, which said that Twitter users support her claim that she is a superior actor than Meryl Streep and Gal Gadot. She said that if Indians ‘heal’ properly, we will realise that we are the ‘most brilliant’ race in the world. Read moreVikas Khanna’s cookie box and sewing kit related video cracks people upRemember that time, as a kid, when you opened that cookie box imagining you’ll find delicious treats instead you found yourself staring at sewing supplies? This video shared by celebrity chef Vikas Khanna will remind you of that bittersweet childhood memory. Read moreRecipe: Deconstructed Banoffee Pie to sweeten your Valentine's DayValentine's Day is the perfect occasion for you to treat your better half to a wonderful experience, and given that most of us have been homebound for most of the pandemic, and continue to be, it's best to make the most of the time and opportunity while we still have it. Read moreWatch: Rahul Gandhi counters PM Modi’s ‘no content & intent’ jibe in Lok Sabha||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-toll-plazas-losing-rs-1-8-cr-a-day-due-to-protest-gadkari-101613054819924.html
11-02-2021||India||Covid-19: How India became the fastest country to vaccinate over 7 million people||India has become the fastest country in the world to achieve more than 7 million vaccinations against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), taking only 26 days to accomplish this feat. The ministry of health and family welfare announced the significant achievement on Thursday, saying it took 27 and 48 days respectively for the United States and the United Kingdom to reach the same figures.The ministry said that more than 7.4 million people have received the shots as of February 11, 2021, under the nationwide immunisation exercise. Among Indian states, Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, Maharashtra, and Rajasthan have recorded the most number of vaccinations in the past 27 days.In early January, the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) approved Covishield, the Covid-19 vaccine developed by AstraZeneca and University of Oxford, and manufactured by Pune-based Serum Institute of India. It also granted emergency authorisation to Covaxin, a vaccine developed by Bharat Biotech, for its use under certain circumstances as the vaccine is still undergoing Phase 3 trial.Read | India should be very, very proud: WHO’s praise amid falling Covid-19 casesIndia kicked off vaccination drive on January 16 after conducting two dry runs across the country to understand the mechanisms and identify possible issues expected to be encountered. The goal was to vaccinate registered healthcare and frontline workers in the first phase of the immunisation drive. Senior doctors took Covid-19 vaccine to address any hesitancy towards vaccination and technical issues were resolved on priority to accelerate the world’s largest vaccination campaign.India has achieved yet another landmark under the strong leadership of PM @narendramodi. We have become the fastest country in the world to administer 7 million COVID-19 vaccine doses. For the real-time updates, visit https://t.co/t8yHLhHqZa. #LargestVaccineDrive @MoHFW_INDIA pic.twitter.com/plRooW70tDOut of the 7.4 million vaccinations, around 5.8 million comprise healthcare workers and more than 1.6 million frontline workers. According to the health ministry, 13 states and Union territories have vaccinated over 65 per cent of their registered healthcare workers and Bihar leads the group with 79% of the registered healthcare workers vaccinated till date.India is now poised to give the second dose of Covid-19 vaccine to the healthcare and frontline workers. The health ministry said that those who received the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine on January 16 will start getting their second and last dose starting Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-how-india-became-the-fastest-country-to-vaccinate-7-million-people-101613054526885.html
11-02-2021||India||India should be very, very proud: WHO’s praise amid falling Covid-19 cases||India on Thursday earned a pat on the back from the World Health Organization (WHO) for its efforts to contain the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) as the global body said the number of infections in the country has been on the decline. “Over three months now, cases of Covid-19 in India have been consistently going down... Considering the magnitude of the population...it's something the Government of India should be very, very proud of,” Roderico Ofrin, WHO’s India representative, was quoted as saying by ANI.Also read | 2,072 Indians died of Covid-19 around the world, minister tells Rajya Sabha“Bringing that diligence, discipline and vigour into their response to the vaccination campaign, we have seen it's been so successful. Around six million were vaccinated in 22 days. It's the fastest as we see rates of vaccination happening,” Ofrin added.According to the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Thursday morning, India reported 12,923 new cases of Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, taking the cumulative count of people infected with the virus in the country to 10,871,294. There are 142,562 active cases and 10,573,372 recoveries as India’s death toll stood at 155,360 with 108 deaths in the last 24 hours. The country is witnessing a sustained decline in the number of Covid-19 cases reported daily since the reported peak in mid-September 2020, the government has said. India has also vaccinated more than 7 million people since the programme began on January 16, in the world’s largest vaccination drive against Covid-19.Ofrin also added a word of praise for Gujarat. “Hats off to Gujarat government for taking the review amid pandemic for information and better evidence to tweak their responses, which they have, especially during the second wave that happened,” he said.This is not the first time that the global health body has praised India. On February 6, it had said that the country has shown great progress in significantly driving down the number of Covid-19 cases. "This shows us that if we can do these simple public health solutions, we can beat the virus...With vaccines being added, we would even expect more and better outcomes," WHO’s director general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus had said.Last month, Ghebreyesus had thanked India and Prime Minister Narendra Modi for their continued support to global Covid-19 response as the country supplied vaccines, being manufactured in the country, to neighbouring countries including Bhutan, Maldives, Nepal, Myanmar and Bangladesh, as well as other nations. "Thank you, India and Prime Minister Narendra Modi for your continued support to global Covid-19 response. Only if we act together, including sharing of knowledge, can we stop this virus and save lives and livelihoods," Tedros had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-should-be-very-very-proud-who-s-praise-amid-falling-covid-19-cases-101613056206080.html
11-02-2021||India||2,072 Indians died of Covid-19 around the world, minister tells Rajya Sabha||A total of 2,072 Indian nationals died of Covid-19 in countries around the world, with a majority of the deaths reported in West Asian countries such as Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates (UAE) and Kuwait.Responding to a question from Loktantrik Janata Dal MP MV Shreyams Kumar in Rajya Sabha, minister of state for external affairs V Muraleedharan provided figures that showed 906 Indians had died of Coronavirus infections in Saudi Arabia while 375 more had died in the UAE.A total of 369 Indians died in Kuwait, while 166 deaths were recorded in Oman and 48 in Bahrain. The statistics provided by Muraleedharan covered deaths due to Covid-19 till December 31 last year.Nearly nine million Indian nationals live and work in West Asia, a majority of them in Saudi Arabia and the UAE. Hundreds of thousands of them returned to India during the pandemic.According to the figures provided by the minister, 34 Indians died in Qatar and 23 each in Sudan and Nigeria. Fifteen Indians died in Italy, nine in Nepal, seven each in Iraq and France, and six in Iran, the figures showed.Muraleedharan also said a little more than four million Indian nationals had been repatriated to the country from around the world by air, land and sea till January 20. More than 3.61 million people were repatriated by air.The largest number – 1.56 million – returned from the UAE. Other countries from which significant numbers of Indians were repatriated were Bahrain (56,532), Canada (61,504), Bangladesh (26,560), France (54,246), Germany (65,260), Kuwait (170,595), the Maldives (52,248), Oman (216,910), Qatar (226,660), Saudi Arabia (365,929), and the US (250,937).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2072-indians-died-of-covid-19-around-the-world-minister-tells-rajya-sabha-101613054845970.html
11-02-2021||India||Don't make farm laws a prestige issue: Sachin Pilot to Centre||Urging the Centre not to make the agri laws a "prestige issue", senior Congress leader Sachin Pilot on Thursday asserted that the government must let go of its "stubbornness" to immediately repeal the legislations, and said that when the BJP could not convince its allies like the Akali Dal and the RLP on the issue, how can it expect the farmers to accept the laws.A day ahead of former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi's visit to Rajasthan to raise the voice of the farmers against the farm laws, he said that the Centre should withdraw the laws and after thorough consultation with farmers and states, come up with a new set of legislations which the tillers would themselves want and is not something that is forced upon them.In an interview with PTI, Pilot slammed the BJP for stating that the Congress had made a "U-turn" on the farm laws, saying it was the BJP which was prone to making 'U-turns', while his party was consistent on all issues.While the Congress supported agri reforms, it did not back laws which are "contrary to the interest of the farmers", said the former Rajasthan deputy chief minister, who addressed two kisan panchayats in Dausa and Bharatpur recently, which saw a massive turnout."First of all, they (BJP) made a U-turn on Aadhaar, then on GST, MGNREGA, FDI and so many issues. The Congress said we want to get new investments (in the agri sector) and technological inputs, want more 'mandis', liberalise the system, but never said we will make laws contrary to the interest of the farmers," he said.Stressing that the government should set aside its "ego'' and let go of its "stubbornness" to repeal the laws, Pilot said almost all political parties and even the BJP's allies - be it the Akali Dal or Hanuman Beniwal's Rashtriya Loktantrik Party (RLP) - opposed the laws. Both the Akali Dal and the RLP quit the BJP-led NDA, opposing the farm laws brought in by the government."They were not able to convince their own NDA partners, how can they expect the farmers to be convinced by these laws and accept them," Pilot said."I don't think they should make it a prestige issue," the former Rajasthan Congress chief said.Asked if there could be a middle path or the repeal of laws was the only option, Pilot said the farmers have explicitly said that they want a complete withdrawal of the laws and the Congress stands firmly behind their demand.Criticising the three farm laws, Pilot said the first major problem with them is that they were made without consultation with any stakeholder as no farmer unions or state government was involved in the making of the laws."Clearly these three laws that the government has made are not in the interest of the farmers because they are protecting everybody but the farmer. You dismantle the 'mandi' system and remove the stock limits, you are obviously encouraging large conglomerates and huge companies who can manage and maintain huge granaries", which could lead to manipulation of the food grain market in the future, he claimed.Asked about the BJP's assertion that the 'mandi' system will stay and the law only provides more options to the farmers, Pilot said that the BJP had also claimed that the farmers' income will be doubled and ₹15 lakh will be transferred in the accounts of people, none of which happened."The law is in favour of a few individuals which will then control the sector. There is only so much food grain that is grown and harvested, if the government stops or drastically reduces procurement, where will the food security act go, from where will the food come for the supply for the PDS (public distribution system)," the 43-year-old leader said.He hailed the efforts of former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi and party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra for strongly opposing the laws and standing with the farmers while extending moral support to them in various places."Mr Gandhi vehemently opposed the laws and he is coming to Rajasthan to give support to the demand of the farmers to repeal these laws. He is touring three or four agrarian districts and will take part in many 'kisan sabhas' and will meet farmers and give support to their demands," he said of Gandhi's two-day visit to the state on February 12 and 13.Referring to the multi-layered barricading and iron nails studded on roads at the protest sites on Delhi's border points, Pilot said the farmers are sitting at the Delhi's borders for the last 80 days and not a single incident of violence took place as they were agitating on truly Gandhian philosophy, but had to face severe intimidation."What happened on Republic Day, every individual has condemned that. We have to investigate how that happened and now they have caught the main accused who is not a farmer," Pilot said, referring to the violence in Delhi during the protesting farmer's tractor rally on January 26."The huge deployment, nails being dug and barricading, gave a sense that the government is attempting to suppress the farmers by oppressive means," Pilot said.Demanding an immediate repeal of the farm laws, Pilot said if any new laws are to be made, the government must first consult the stakeholders, have a robust discussion in Parliament and after extensive deliberation come up with a new set of legislations which the farmers would themselves want and they are not forced on them.Thousands of farmers have been protesting at Delhi's borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh demanding the rollback of the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act.However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring farmers better opportunities and usher in new technologies in agriculture.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dont-make-farm-laws-a-prestige-issue-sachin-pilot-to-centre-101613054137219.html
11-02-2021||India||Govt won’t use WhatsApp, other social media for salary communication||The Centre has decided to rule out its plan to allow WhatsApp and other social media platforms for salary communication of employees under its new labour codes amid privacy concerns and fears that the measure would further legitimise social media for official communication.Union labour secretary Apurva Chandra told Livemint on Thursday that the “anomaly will be corrected and the Centre will remove WhatsApp and other social media platforms from wage communication draft notification.” Chandra said that the government valued privacy concerns of employees adding that WhatsApp and other social media would be excluded from the final standing orders.This update comes exactly a month after the Union labour ministry was considering feedback on a fresh provision of sending intimation regarding all payments through electronic mode under draft standing orders on manufacturing, mining and services sectors, an official told news agency PTI on January 11.In December last year, the ministry had circulated two draft standing orders on the services sector and manufacturing and mining sectors. “All payment including wages to the workers shall be paid by crediting in the bank account of worker on electronic mode or digital form. Intimation... to a worker shall be sent to him through Short Messaging Service (SMS) or e-mail or social media communication, such as WhatsApp or by issuing a slip,” the orders read.However, people had expressed apprehensions that this measure would allow organisations to display the financial and personal details of their employees on social media platforms which could be accessed by everyone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-won-t-use-whatsapp-other-social-media-for-salary-communication-101613053785677.html
11-02-2021||India||Loss of ₹1.8 cr a day at toll booths due to farmers' protest: Nitin Gadkari||Public funded toll plazas at highways are facing an estimated loss of approximately ₹1.8 crore per day due to farmers' protests, the Centre informed Parliament on Thursday.Toll collection across Punjab and Haryana and Delhi NCR region has been suspended since December due to the ongoing protests against the three farm laws, which cleared by Parliament last year.In a written response to a question in the Lok Sabha by BJP MP PC Gaddigouda, Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari said: "Due to farmers’ protest, some of the fee plazas are non-operational, thereby the NHAI is unable to collect user fee from the road users. In case of public funded fee plazas, an estimated remittance loss is approximately ₹1.8 crore per day."According to credit rating agency ICRA, the farmers’ agitation has seen nearly ₹600 crore loss in toll collections in states of Punjab, Haryana and Delhi-NCR with ₹9300 crore of debt at risk, thus far.ICRA Ratings, in its report issued last month, had said that around 52 toll plazas [includes both public funded and BOT (built, operate and transfer)] for national highways (NHs) operated in Punjab, Haryana and Delhi-NCR have been directly or indirectly affected due to farmers’ agitation.Apart from this, the revenue loss in the state highways projects in these regions will be an additional burden, it noted.“The average toll collection per day at these plazas is estimated at ₹7 crore. Until January 26, 2021, these national highway toll plazas would have incurred an estimated revenue loss of around ₹560 crore out of which ₹410 crore is estimated for BOT Concessionaires. Out of the ₹9,300 crore of impacted rated debt, ₹8550 crore of debt is at a high risk of default while ₹750 crore is rated as investment grade with low to moderate risk of default. Some of these entities also have debt service reserves (DSRAs) of around three months in place to use for such exigencies; however, this would have been completely used up by now," said Rajeshwar Burla, Vice President, Corporate Ratings, ICRA.The inability to collect toll for a continuous period of 24 hours and exceeding an aggregate period of seven days in an accounting year due to agitations/ strikes would be considered an indirect political event under the force majeure clause, ICRA noted."In such cases, with the costs attributable to such events, beyond the insurance cover, one half of such excess amount is likely to be reimbursed by the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), covering around 25% of the loss of revenue incurred by the affected projects. As per ICRA estimates, this would amount to around Rs100 crore until January 26, 2021. Further, the concession period shall be extended in proportion to the loss of fee on a daily basis," it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/loss-of-rs-1-8-cr-a-day-at-toll-booths-due-to-farmers-protest-nitin-gadkari-101613053294415.html
11-02-2021||India||Need punch to offensive poise, says army chief amid 'newer threats'||Taking note of the “real and present dangers” on the country’s active borders, army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane on Thursday spoke of the “newer threats” ahead and the need to add punch to India’s offensive poise.The comment comes on the day defence minister Rajnath Singh told Parliament that the Indian and Chinese armies were implementing a disengagement plan on the north and south banks of Pangong Tso to reduce military tensions in eastern Ladakh.“Ongoing developments along our northern borders should cause us to ponder over… the nature of our unsettled borders and consequent challenges with regard to the preservation of our territorial integrity and sovereignty. Without doubt there are newer threats on the horizon, but the hard reality is that the legacy challenges have not quite gone away,” Naravane said in his inaugural address at a seminar on Multi-Domain Operations: Future of Conflicts, organised by the Centre for Land Warfare Studies.The army chief said the challenges had only grown in scale and intensity.Talking about multi-domain operations, chief Naravane said India needed to address the challenges posed by adversaries in stand-off deterrence. “We need to develop capacities to strengthen our own anti-access prowess as well as develop proficiencies to overcome the anti-access capacities of the adversary to strengthen our defensive framework as also to add punch to our offensive poise.”He said platforms such as tanks, fighter jets and surface combatants, which were once the mainstay of 20th century battlefield, were rendered relatively less significant in the face of emerging battlefield challenges in newer domains.“We have seen how the very imaginative and offensive use of drones in Idlib and then in Armenia-Azerbaijan challenged the traditional prima donnas: the tanks, the artillery and the dug in infantry,” the army chief said.“We have also seen how disruptive technologies are now driving doctrinal cycles like never before. It may not be inaccurate to infer that technology itself is steadily emerging as a core combat capability,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/need-punch-to-offensive-poise-says-army-chief-amid-newer-threats-101613052009723.html
11-02-2021||India||No decision on exempting IITs from faculty reservation: Govt||The government has not taken any decision yet on a panel's recommendations that the Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) should be exempted from reservations in faculty appointments, the Parliament was informed on Thursday.The committee submitted its report last June and it was circulated to all the ministries concerned and their comments have been received, Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank said in a written reply to a question in the Rajya Sabha."The government has not yet taken a decision on the recommendations of the committee," Nishank said.An eight-member committee comprising IIT directors was asked to suggest measures on effective implementation of reservation policies not only in recruitment, but also for admissions.In a report submitted to the government in June, the panel said that the IITs should be exempted from reservations because they were "institutes of national importance and are involved in research".The committee had also noted that the expectations on the faculty from the IITs were very high due to the quality and standards of education, and rather than specific quotas, diversity issues should be addressed through outreach campaigns and targeted recruitment of faculty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-decision-on-exempting-iits-from-faculty-reservation-govt-101613050942260.html
11-02-2021||India||Flights between India, Russia to begin tomorrow under bilateral air bubble||India and Russia have concluded an air bubble agreement that will become effective from February 12 and airlines from both sides will be allowed to carry stranded citizens of the two countries, seamen and a few other categories of travellers.A statement issued by the Russian embassy on Thursday said the “entry of tourists from Russia is not yet possible”.India and Russia will be allowed to operate direct flights under the air bubble. Flights from India to Russia can carry stranded citizens of Russia, any national of India, Nepal or Bhutan holding a valid Russian visa and seamen planning to work in Russia, the statement said.Flights from Russia to India can carry nationals of India, Nepal or Bhutan stranded in Russia, all Overseas Citizen of India (OCI) cardholders and Person of Indian Origin (PIO) cardholders holding passports of any country, seamen from Russia, and Russian nationals intending to visit India for any purpose, including their dependents, except tourism.Russia had announced on January 30 that it would resume issuing visas for all categories of Indian citizens planning to travel to the country by air and to those possessing residence permits. The move was in line with a decision made by the Russian Covid-19 Emergency Response Centre on January 16.The Russian embassy said earlier that flights between Moscow and New Delhi are expected to be operated twice a week.The issuance of e-visas, however, has been temporarily suspended.The Indian government has extended the ban on international commercial flights till February 28. The ban on scheduled overseas flights, imposed 10 months ago, was earlier set to end on January 31.Flights under bilateral air bubble agreements with select countries are allowed by the Directorate General of Civil Aviation. India currently has such agreements with 25 countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/flights-between-india-russia-to-begin-tomorrow-under-bilateral-air-bubble-101613050848205.html
11-02-2021||India||GHMC polls: TRS wins mayoral posts with AIMIM extending last-minute support||Telangana elected its first female mayor to the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) on Thursday, since the creation of the state in 2014. The ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) candidate Gadwal Vijayalakshmi along with deputy mayor Mothe Srilatha Reddy, also from the TRS, won a tightly contested election. Vijayalakshmi defeated the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP’s) candidate Radha Dheeraj Reddy for Thursday’s historic win.AIMIM’s contributionThe first citizen of Hyderabad was elected by a show of hands. The All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) extended support to Vijayalakshmi’s nomination at the eleventh hour. The Asaduddin Owaisi-led AIMIM had retained power in all of its 44 seats in the elections to the GHMC, held on December 1 of last year. Owaisi tweeted his congratulations to the TRS for winning the posts of mayor and deputy mayor, adding that public works will be a core area of concern for the GHMC. He also thanked TRS for offering AIMIM the post of deputy mayor.“Congratulations to the newly elected Mayor & Deputy Mayor of GHMC. Hope that, under their leadership, Hyderabad will be taken to new heights and public works will be actively taken up in areas that need them the most, including Old City of Hyderabad,” Owaisi tweeted.The support extended by the AIMIM to the TRS was a last-minute switch. At around 12:30pm on Thursday, a few hours before the voting was supposed to be held, the AIMIM announced it was dropping out of the GHMC mayoral polls, much to the surprise of the TRS’s main rival the BJP.GHMC polls vs the mayoral electionsThe GHMC elections on December 1 last year witnessed a close fight between the K Chandrashekar Rao-led TRS and the BJP. In the 150-member GHMC council, a party needs to win 76 seats to command an absolute majority. The TRS won 56 and the BJP with 48 seats came a close second but both failed to attain majority. The AIMIM won in all of its 44 seats and Congress fared the worst with just two seats under its belt.The TRS was hopeful of winning the mayoral elections because it had 38 co-option members, i.e. members to the municipal corporation who had been appointed due to their interests, experience, or skill sets. The BJP had the support of only two such members and the AIMIM had 10. The number of members taking part in Thursday’s vote stood at 193. The TRS required 97 votes to grab the two top posts. After combining the votes of 56 elected corporators and 32 co-option members, it fell short by nine votes, raising the bar of the contest for the BJP. However, the AIMIM dropped out of the race at the very last minute, even though they had initially fielded two candidates, and extended support to TRS helping them win both posts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ghmc-polls-trs-wins-mayoral-posts-with-aimim-extending-last-minute-support-101613050221656.html
11-02-2021||India||Nitin Gadkari to launch India's first CNG tractor tomorrow||India's first-ever diesel tractor, converted to Compressed Natural Gas (CNG), will be formally launched by the Union Minister for Road Transport and Highways, Nitin Gadkari on February 12.The conversion, carried out jointly by Rawmatt Techno Solutions and Tomasetto Achille India, will help farmers increase their income, by lowering the costs and help to create job opportunities in rural India. Union Ministers Dharmendra Pradhan, Narendra Singh Tomar, Parshottam Rupala and General (Retired) VK Singh will also be present at the launch."The most important benefit for the farmer will be to save more than one lakh rupees annually on fuel costs, which will help them to improve their livelihood," read the press release by the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways.Benefits of converting a tractor to CNG for a farmer are first, the test reports indicate that the retrofitted tractor produces more power/equal in comparison to the diesel-run engine. Second, overall emissions are reduced by 70 per cent as compared to diesel. Third, it will help farmers to save up to 50 per cent on the fuel cost as the current diesel prices are ₹77.43/litre whereas CNG is only ₹42/kg.CNG is a clean fuel as it has the lowest content of carbon and other pollutants. It is economical as it has zero lead and is non-corrosive, non-dilutive and non-contaminating which helps in increasing the life of the engine and it requires less regular maintenance. Also, it is the future as at present around 12 million vehicles are already powered by natural gas throughout the world and more companies and municipalities are joining the CNG movement every day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nitin-gadkari-to-launch-india-s-first-cng-tractor-tomorrow-101613050253088.html
11-02-2021||India||Netflix, Amazon Prime, other digital platforms adopt self-regulation tool kit||Internet and Mobile Association of India (IAMAI) on Thursday, along with 17 signatories including Netflix and Amazon Prime, adopted the self-regulation tool kit of content that focuses on grievance redressal and setting up of complaints committees.The other prominent Online Curated Content Providers who are signatories to the toolkit include ZEE5, Viacom 18 (Voot), Disney+Hotstar, SonyLiv, MX Player, Jio Cinema, Eros Now, Alt Balaji, Arre, HoiChoi, Hungama, Shemaroo and Discovery Plus. The implementation tool kit is in furtherance to original code signed on September 4 last year which includes feedback from the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting on the issues of conflict of interest and prohibited content.Officials from the Information & Broadcasting Ministry said that they will review the implementation tool kit and respond accordingly. The ministry is also working on its own parallel code that will overarchingly govern all over the top (OTT) platforms. Union minister Prakash Javadekar told Parliament last week that guidelines for OTT platforms have almost been finalised.Regulation of OTT platforms became a sore point for the government after various complaints were filed against a few shows released on Netflix and Amazon Prime. The latest being the political TV show Tandav on Amazon Prime. Complainants said the show disrespected religious sentiments. The government also sought a response from the makers of the show. The cast and crew have since apologised.The code states that the signatories set up an “Internal Committee within their Grievance Redressal System” to address complaints by users, government bodies or regulators. “Each Signatory has undertaken to constitute an Advisory Panel to decide on the complaints when the complainant is (a) dissatisfied with the decision of the CCD/Internal Committee and (b) requests an escalation in respect of the complaint filed with the CCD/Internal Committee,” the tool kit states.The signatories may also have independent members on their advisory panel. “Advisory Panel shall comprise no less than three (3) members. It is suggested that the Advisory Panel shall consist of at least an equal number of Independent Members (vis-à-vis the Signatory’s internal members),” IAMAI has said. “The Signatories have agreed to adhere to all applicable laws of the land.”IAMAI head of public policy Bhanupreet Saini said that the toolkit addresses key areas to standardise procedures for all signatories. “This offers clear and standard procedures on how to address grievances, including the setting up of a complaints committee. All the signatories have also agreed to abide by the law of the land and submit to regular compliance audits,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/netflix-amazon-prime-other-digital-platforms-adopt-self-regulation-tool-kit-101613050032614.html
11-02-2021||India||3% of total confirmed Covid cases were from 177 tribal dominated districts: Govt||Around three per cent of the total confirmed Covid-19 cases in the country were from 177 tribal dominated districts till June 2020, Minister of State for Tribal Affairs Renuka Singh Saruta informed the Parliament on Thursday.Replying to a question in Rajya Sabha, the minister said the ministry has assessed district wise confirmed Covid-19 cases for 177 tribal dominated districts."It has been observed that about three per cent of the total confirmed cases in the country were from 177 tribal dominated districts till June, 2020," the minister said.In reply to another question on the measures undertaken by the ministry for community specific safety and well-being of the tribal population during the Covid-19 pandemic, she said on her ministry's request, the Union Home Ministry issued orders aiming to relax provisions of lockdown for collection, harvesting and processing of Minor Forest Produce (MFP)/Non Timber Forest Produce (NTFP) by Scheduled Tribes and other forest dwellers.She said the Union Minister of Tribal Affairs also wrote letters to chief ministers of 15 states to sensitize respective state nodal agencies to undertake procurement of MFP at Minimum Support Price (MSP) in right earnest.These states include Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Assam, Andhra Pradesh, Kerala, Manipur, Nagaland, West Bengal, Rajasthan, Odisha, Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand."Amid the Covid-19 situation, MoTA revised the MSP for minor forest produce and also added 37 new items under the MFP list, taking the total number of MFPs under the scheme to 87 while providing a fillip to the income generating activities of tribals through MFP Procurement."During 2020-21, the state government procured MFPs worth ₹157.51 crores to provide immediate livelihood support to tribal MFP gatherers," she said.The Ministry disbursed Rs. 1,986.31 crores to 35.2 lakh tribal students under Pre and Postmatric scholarship scheme through DBT during 2020-21 amid the pandemic to provide essential support for continuation of education, she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-of-total-confirmed-covid-cases-were-from-177-tribal-dominated-districts-govt-101613049892918.html
11-02-2021||India||Govt ready for talks, can amend farm laws if needed: Rajnath Singh||The Union government is ready to discuss the new agriculture laws with farmers' leaders with an open mind and even to amend them if necessary, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said here on Thursday.The new laws are aimed at doubling farmers' income, Singh said, speaking at a function to inaugurate thousands of small-scale irrigation projects in Madhya Pradesh.Singh's statement follows Prime Minister Narendra Modi's fresh appeal to protesting farmers on Wednesday to come forward for talks and the assurance that the government is open to amending the laws if there are any shortcomings."We are ready to talk with an open mind on farm laws and if needed even make amendments to them. As a result of our government's decisions, a new confidence is being built among common farmers. And due to this (confidence) farmers have achieved a record production," Singh said."In 2017, the prime minister had vowed to double farmers' income by 2022. This was not an easy resolve ....against the backdrop of this, the three farm laws were enacted last year," he said.The new laws aim at fetching fair price for farmers' produce and give them liberty to sell it wherever they wish, the Union minister further said.But "people with vested interests" created confusion over the three laws, spreading misconceptions such as markets run by Agricultural Produce Marketing Committees and Minimum Support Prices (MSP) will be abolished and farmers' lands will be mortgaged, Singh alleged.The prime minister had stated categorically in Parliament that neither any APMC Mandi has closed after the new laws came into force, nor has the MSP regime ended, he said, adding that rather the MSP has increased.Under the new laws, agricultural produce will be up for sale and not the land, the Union minister stressed.Saying that Mahatma Gandhi considered villages as the soul of India, Singh said development of rural areas was the government's priority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-ready-for-talks-can-amend-farm-laws-if-needed-rajnath-singh-101613049764014.html
11-02-2021||India||Domestic flight ticket rates set to rise as Centre relaxes cap on price bands||The ministry of civil aviation on Thursday extended the cap on domestic flights' price bands till March 21 but it allowed the airlines to increase the upper and lower cap on the fares by up to 30%.The Centre had imposed a cap on domestic airfare after resumption of flights on May 25 last year, following a two month suspension of services imposed due to the lockdown, to curb the spread of Covid 19.As per the order issued by the civil aviation ministry on Thursday, airlines will be allowed to charge more from passengers as the government has allowed a substantial increase on the upper and lower limits of the price bands.For flights with duration between 90 to 120 minutes, the lower fare cap has been increased to ₹3,900 from ₹3,500, while the cap on maximum chargeable fare has been increased to ₹13,000 from ₹10,000.At present, the government has allowed domestic flights to operate up to 80% of their capacity.Replying to a question in Parliament on Wednesday, Union civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri said fare band on domestic flights can't be a permanent feature and it is expected that when airlines, which are now operating at 80 per cent of their pre-Covid capacity, resume their full services, they won't need fare bands.The Centre fixed fare bands when airlines resumed their services in May 2020, after the national lockdown. In this process, the ministry determined the ceiling price of tickets so that passengers were not overcharged."The floor and ceiling price was an extraordinary measure which was necessitated by an extraordinary situation which we found ourselves in. It is designed to ensure that airlines in a situation of limited availability did not charge exorbitant prices. It is not our intention and can not be in an open market deregulated situation to have the fare band made a permanent feature," the minister had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/domestic-flight-ticket-rates-set-to-rise-as-centre-relaxes-cap-on-price-bands-101613049288872.html
11-02-2021||India||SC refuses to entertain plea seeking guidelines to prevent sale of fake Covid-19 vaccines||The Supreme Court Thursday refused to entertain a plea seeking direction to the Centre to issue “strict” guidelines to prevent any chance of sale of fake coronavirus vaccines in the country, saying it cannot pass general directions."We understand your motivation but you file a concrete case. We cannot pass general directions. We are not the legislature," a bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde told the petitioner."If you (petitioner) want to pursue this issue, you make out a case with concrete facts. We will allow you to withdraw with liberty to file it afresh," the bench, also comprising Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, told advocate Vishal Tiwari who had filed the plea.Tiwari told the bench that he would withdraw the plea with liberty to file a fresh petition.“The petitioner who is appearing in person seeks permission to withdraw this petition with liberty to file a fresh petition. Permission, as sought for, is granted. Accordingly, the writ petition is dismissed as withdrawn with the liberty aforesaid,” the bench said in its order.The plea was filed before the roll out of vaccines in India and had referred to the statement of Secretary General of INTERPOL to the effect that criminal organizations have been planning to infiltrate or disrupt supply chains.The plea had said the INTERPOL official also issued a global alert to law enforcement agencies of 194 member countries warning them to prepare for organized crime networks targeting COVID-19 vaccines, both physically and online."Issue writ...directions to the respondent (Centre) to issue strict guidelines and regulations under Disaster Management Act or under any other law by constituting a special committee to prevent the chances of fake and counterfeit Corona vaccine selling/circulating and advertising by any organization, company, online Apps," it had said.It had also sought directions for the government agencies to run awareness programme for safety of citizens against the danger of fake corona vaccine."Direct the Respondent (Centre) enact a strict law against the criminal act committed by selling or circulating the counterfeit corona vaccine by any organization or Individual," it had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-refuses-to-entertain-plea-seeking-guidelines-to-prevent-sale-of-fake-covid-19-vaccines-101613045440806.html
11-02-2021||India||In 3 points, Rahul Gandhi responds to Modi’s ‘content, intent’ jibe on farm laws||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday continued to criticise the Centre over the farmers’ agitation against the three central agricultural laws and said he would describe the content and intent of the legislation, which were passed by Parliament in September last year.Gandhi’s comments came after Prime Minister Narendra Modi had said on Wednesday that the Congress party only made noise about the farm laws but never discussed its content or intent. The Prime Minister had also said that if there were any flaws in the laws, there is nothing wrong in amending them but the farmers would have to come up with convincing points.“Yesterday while addressing the House, the PM said that the Opposition is talking about the agitation but not about the content and intent of the farm maws. I thought I should make him happy today and speak on the content and intent of the laws,” the Congress leader said in the Lok Sabha.Yesterday while addressing the House, PM said that the Opposition is talking about the agitation but not about the content and intent of Farm Laws. I thought I should make him happy today and speak on the content and intent of the laws: Congress MP Rahul Gandhi in Lok Sabha pic.twitter.com/P0WeB0W5G1The member of Parliament from Wayanad then went on to explain what he meant. He said the content of the first law was aimed towards finishing the mandis and its intent was ‘to give one friend’ the right to have all the crops of India. The content of the second laws was to end the essential commodities act and its intent was ‘to help the second friend’, Gandhi added. “The content of the third law is that when a farmer goes before the biggest businessman of India to demand the right price for his crops, he will not be allowed to go to the Court,” he told the Lower House.Amid an uproar in Parliament during his address, Gandhi further alleged that the Centre never paid tributes to the farmers who had lost their lives during the ongoing agitation and went on to observe a two-minute silence to condole their deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-3-points-rahul-gandhi-responds-to-modi-s-content-intent-jibe-on-farm-laws-101613048306509.html
11-02-2021||India||CAA will be implemented after Covid-19 vaccination ends, says Amit Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah Thursday said the process of granting Indian citizenship to refugees under the CAA, including to the Matua community of West Bengal, will begin once the process of Covid-19 vaccination has ended.Accusing the opposition parties of misleading the minorities about the Citizenship (amendment) Act, he said its implementation will not impact the citizenship status of Indian minorities.Shah said the Modi government had in 2018 promised it will bring in a new citizenship law and kept it when the BJP was voted to power in 2019.He said, after the country was hit by the Covid-19 pandemic in 2020, its implementation had to be kept in abeyance."Mamata didi said we made a false promise. She started opposing the CAA and saying she will never allow it. The BJP always fulfils the promises it makes. We have brought this law and refugees will get citizenship."As soon as the Covid-19 vaccination process ends the process of granting citizenship under CAA will begin," he said, addressing a rally here in the bastion of the Matua community.Matuas, originally from East Pakistan, are weaker section Hindus who migrated to India during the Partition and after the creation of Bangladesh. Many of them have been accorded Indian citizenship but a sizeable section of the population has not.Shah said Banerjee will not be in a position to oppose the implementation of the CAA as she will cease to be the chief minister after the assembly polls likely in April-May this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/caa-will-be-implemented-after-covid-19-vaccination-ends-says-amit-shah-101613047585599.html
11-02-2021||India||For the rich, of the rich, by the rich’: Chidambaram tears into Union Budget||Congress leader P Chidambaram on Thursday attacked the government’s “disappointing” “budget for the rich, of the rich, and by the rich”, which he said is meant only for “1% of India’s population that controls 73% of the country’s wealth.” The former Union finance minister, while participating in the debate on the Union Budget in Parliament, said that “there’s nothing for the poor people of India, who continue to suffer…Two years of a slowdown before the coronavirus is a reality.” He alleged that country witnessed three years of “incompetent economic mismanagement.”Chidambaram said his party has rejected the budget, presented by Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on February 1. “We must, therefore, record our strongest protest and dissent. And because of this dissent, we will be called 'andolanjeevi' and 'parjeevi’,” he said in the Rajya Sabha.Also read| Parliament LIVE: Centre never paid tributes to the protesting farmers who diedHere’s a list of thing he claims the government is denying about the economic slowdown:1. He slammed the big numbers in the budget and asked the government to give out realistic numbers which would be a natural and mechanical growth after coronavirus induced slowdown. The government has projected a 14.8% gross domestic product for 2021 while Chidambaram limited it between 9.4 -8.4% based on the arithmetic.2. Asking the government to withdraw the budget, he said major numbers are suspect in this year's budget including the capital expenditure of ₹51,000 crore. “Where did the rest of the money go?” he asked.3. Chidambaram expressed concern over no mention of the defence sector for the first time in the budget speech even as the allocation to the health sector was reduced.4. He urged the government to help people and migrant labourers by providing cash transfers and ration, else he warned that the poor will wake up and in a non-violent, peaceful manner, show what should be done.5. The Congress leader claimed that the government failed to stimulate the growth and will drag GDP three years back.6. The former finance minister compared GDP figures from the last few years and questioned the growth after 2017-18, which was ₹131 lakh crore. “Since then what has happened? In 2019-20, it was a slower crawl to ₹145 lakh crore and in 2020-21, the year that is about to end, the first half is about ₹60 lakh crore and the year may end at about ₹130 lakh crore, which means we are back to where we were in 2017-18,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/for-the-rich-of-the-rich-by-the-rich-chidambaram-tears-into-union-budget-101613046466207.html
11-02-2021||India||LAC disengagement in phased manner, coordinated and verified way: Rajnath Singh||Defence minister Rajnath Singh said on Thursday India and China have maintained communication with each other through military and diplomatic channels since September last year to resolve the nine-month border standoff in eastern Ladakh. Singh made the comments while making a statement on the situation in eastern Ladakh in the Lok Sabha. “Since September last year, both sides have maintained communication with each other through military and diplomatic channels. Our objective was to effect disengagement and maintain status quo along the LAC (Line of Actual Control) so as to restore peace and tranquillity,” the defence minister said in the Lower House.“The agreement that we have been able to reach with the Chinese side for disengagement in Pangong lake area envisages that both sides will cease their forward deployments in a phased, coordinated and verified manner,” Singh said in the Lok Sabha.Also watch | ‘We’ve lost nothing’: Rajnath Singh on disengagement along LAC with ChinaHe also praised India’s armed forces for their “valour and courage”. “We maintained the edge because of the bravery of our armed forces in harsh adverse climatic conditions. Our armed forces proved yet again that territorial integrity of our country remains safe in their hands and their grit and determination is unwavering,” he said.“Our armed forces responded to challenges by unilateral Chinese action and have shown valour and courage on both south and north bank of Pangong Tso. Many strategic points were identified and our troops positioned themselves at locations very important from our point of view,” the minister added.He had informed the Rajya Sabha earlier in the day that India and China have reached an agreement for disengagement on the north and south bank of Pangong Lake through sustained talks. He had said that both the countries have reached an agreement on disengagement on the north and south bank of Pangong lake in eastern Ladakh that mandates both sides to cease forward deployment of troops in a "phased, coordinated and verifiable" manner."I am happy to inform the House today that as a result of our well thought out approach and sustained talks with the Chinese side, we have now been able to reach an agreement on disengagement on the north and south bank of the Pangong Lake,” he had said. "It has also been agreed to convene the next meeting of the Senior Commanders within 48 hours after the complete disengagement in the Pangong Lake area so as to address and resolve all other remaining issues," he added.Also read | In India-China border disengagement plan, Galwan model is the templateIndia and China will withdraw the forward deployment in a phased and coordinated manner as per the agreement reached by the two sides, Singh had said. "The agreement that we have been able to reach with the Chinese side for disengagement in the Pangong lake area envisages that both sides will cease their forward deployments in a phased, coordinated and verified manner," he said.The two countries have been engaged in a stand-off along the LAC since April-May last year. They had agreed to push for an early disengagement of the frontline troops in eastern Ladakh during the ninth round of the corps commander Level meeting held on January 24 to address the border standoff.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lac-disengagement-in-phased-manner-coordinated-and-verified-way-rajnath-singh-101613044535162.html
11-02-2021||India||India made app Koo now has over 3 million users||Koo, the Made in India social network platform, has seen a massive surge in the number of users in the last few weeks amid a spat between the Centre and Twitter. “We had two million users with about 1.5 million active users. Now, we have now crossed 3 million-mark," Koo co-founder Mayank Bidawataka said, according to news agency PTI.Co-founder Aprameya Radhakrishna all took to Twitter to highlight the rising popularity of the platform. "Our systems are facing more load than ever. Thank you for placing your trust in us. Our team is working on overdrive to fix it,” she tweeted.Radhakrishna and Bidawatka, who use Twitter, launched the multilingual platform in 2020 to help Indians connect across a number of Indian languages.The Centre on Wednesday censured Twitter after the San Francisco headquartered social media giant refused to fully comply with a government order to take down more than 1,100 accounts and posts which the government has said spread misinformation about the farmers' protests against the three agriculture laws. Twitter said it had not blocked all of the content because it believed the directives were not in line with Indian laws.On Thursday, Union information technology minister Ravi Shankar Prasad attacked Twitter in the Rajya Sabha. "Please don't spread enmity, violence and misinformation. Please follow the Constitution of India and the law of the land (otherwise we will be very strict)," he said while replying to a question in Rajya Sabha.Several political leaders and celebrities, including Piyush Goyal, have joined Koo. "I am now on Koo. Connect with me on this Indian micro-blogging platform for real-time, exciting and exclusive updates. Let us exchange our thoughts and ideas on Koo," Goyal, the minister of railways, commerce and industry, tweeted on Tuesday.Chief minister of Madhya Pradesh Shivraj Singh Chouhan has also joined Koo and announced the news on Twitter. Bollywood actress Kangana Ranaut too has become part of the growing shift towards Koo. “Your time is up @Twittertime to shift to #kooapp will inform everyone soon about my account details there. Absolutely thrilled to experience home grown #kooapp” she tweeted on Wednesday.Ministry of electronics and IT (MeitY), MyGov, Digital India, India Post, National Informatics Centre (NIC), National Institute of Electronics and Information Technology (NIELIT), Common Services Centre, UMANG app, Digi Locker, Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC) et al have all opened accounts on Koo, reported news agency PTI.Koo and Twitter both share striking similarities, the most prominent of which is the logo of both the apps. Much like Twitter’s mascot ‘Larry’, the blue bird, Koo has a yellow bird and they also have a similar user interface.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-made-app-koo-now-has-over-3-million-users-101613043062298.html
11-02-2021||India||Rajnath Singh to speak on 'present situation in Eastern Ladakh' in LS today||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh will make a statement on 'present situation in Eastern Ladakh' in Lok Sabha at 5.00 pm on Thursday."Raksha Mantri Shri Rajnath Singh will make a statement on 'Present Situation in Eastern Ladakh' in Lok Sabha at 5.00 PM today," Office of the Raksha Mantri tweeted.Earlier today, the Defence Minister informed the Rajya Sabha that through sustained talks, both Indian and China have reached an agreement for disengagement on the north and south bank of Pangong Lake.Speaking on the present situation in Eastern Ladakh, Rajnath Singh said, "I am happy to inform the House today that as a result of our well thought out approach and sustained talks with the Chinese side, we have now been able to reach an agreement on disengagement in the North and South Bank of the Pangong Lake.""It has also been agreed to convene the next meeting of the Senior Commanders within 48 hours after the complete disengagement in the Pangong Lake area so as to address and resolve all other remaining issues," he added.Also read| China to move to east of Finger 8, no patrolling in disputed area: Rajnath SinghAs per the agreement reached by the two sides, India and China will withdraw the forward deployment in a phased and coordinated manner, the Defence Minister said. "The agreement that we have been able to reach with the Chinese side for disengagement in the Pangong lake area envisages that both sides will cease their forward deployments in a phased, coordinated and verified manner," he said.Previously, India and China had agreed to push for an early disengagement of the frontline troops in eastern Ladakh during the ninth round of the China-India Corps Commander Level meeting held on the Chinese side of the Moldo-Chushul border meeting point on January 24 to address the ongoing military standoff.The two countries have been engaged in a stand-off along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) since April-May last year. While China began amassing massive military strength along the LAC, India responded with a befitting build-up.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-singh-to-speak-on-present-situation-in-eastern-ladakh-in-ls-today-101613037895200.html
11-02-2021||India||Mexico president says 1 million doses of Made-in-India vaccines scheduled||Mexican President Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador at a news conference on Wednesday informed that the country would receive around a million doses of AstraZeneca's Covid-19 vaccine sent from India in the early hours of Sunday.Indian envoy to Mexico Manpreet Vohra also announced, "To assist #Mexico's fight against the Covid-19 pandemic, I am delighted to confirm that 500,000 Made-in-India vaccines are scheduled to reach here on Sunday," tweeted the Indian Embassy in Mexico.AstraZeneca's Covid-19 vaccines are being manufactured in India by the Serum Institute of India (SII).Earlier, Dominica and Barbados on Wednesday received 'Made in India' Covid-19 vaccines under the Vaccine Maitri initiative.India has also supplied Indian-made vaccines to countries including Bhutan, Maldives, Nepal, and Bangladesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mexico-president-says-1-million-doses-of-made-in-india-vaccines-scheduled-101613037799668.html
11-02-2021||India||News updates from HT: Priyanka Gandhi pays tribute to Nehru, takes a holy dip in Sangam and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Priyanka Gandhi takes holy dip in Sangam, pays tribute to Jawahar Lal NehruCongress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Thursday took a holy dip in the Sangam, the confluence of the Ganga, Yamuna and mythical Saraswati rivers, in Uttar Pradesh’s Allahabad on Mauni Amavasya and performed puja. Read More2 expenditure observers to curb money power in Tamil Nadu pollsThe Election Commission of India says it will send two special expenditure observers to Tamil Nadu to keep a check on money distribution to influence poll outcomes, an acute problem in Tamil Nadu politics. Read MoreAt airport, Maharashtra Governor refused state plane, told request pendingIn a fresh chapter in the bitter tussle between governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari and the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government. Read MoreRenault Kiger launch on Feb 15, may become most affordable SUV in IndiaRenault is all set to launch its new sub-compact SUV for India - Kiger SUV - next week. Read MoreRealme X7 5G goes on sale on February 12: Check price, key specsRealme on Thursday said that its Realme X7 5G will go on sale on February 12 starting 12 noon. Read MoreRare yellow lobster captured by fisherman finds forever home at marine centreA rare yellow lobster caught off the coast of Maine has now found its forever home at University of New England’s Marine Science Center. Read MoreAshwin and the England puzzle - Can the off-spinner dominate in Jadeja's absence?India's impressive run in Test cricket on home soil, which has seen them not lose a single series at home since the 1-2 debacle against Alastair Cook's England in 2012-13. Read MoreMy real self: Cardi B shares bare-faced selfie to preach self acceptanceOther than her music, Cardi B is best known for always clapping back at her critics, taking up public feuds on social media and reality if need be. Read MoreTo All the Boys Always and Forever movie review: Lana Condor, Noah Centineo's chemistry can't rescue corny final chapterIs there a more resounding reminder that you, with your Cult.fit membership, are old, than the lead character of the movie you’re watching going, ‘huh?’ upon hearing the word 'Oasis'? Read More‘Budget of the rich, for the rich & by the rich’: P Chidambaram attacks govtFormer Finance Minister and Congress’ Rajya Sabha MP spoke during the discussion on the Union Budget 2021 in Rajya Sabha. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-priyanka-gandhi-pays-tribute-to-nehru-takes-a-holy-dip-in-sangam-and-all-the-latest-news-101613040783525.html
11-02-2021||India||Kamal Haasan’s MNM makes him permanent president of party||Actor-politician Kamal Haasan’s Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) on Thursday resolved to make him the next chief minister of Tamil Nadu as also the party’s permanent president with all powers vested in him to decide on alliances. Among the 25 resolutions that the fledgling party passed in its day-long general council meeting was that of seeking that the inquiry process into former state chief minister J Jayalalithaa’s death be expedited.Haasan has positioned himself as an alternative to the two Dravidian parties, AIADMK and DMK, with a poll plank of fighting against corruption. The other resolutions include bringing out a white paper before the polls on the state’s debts, opposing the 8-lane Chennai-Salem expressway and condemning the Centre for promoting Hindi and Sanskrit. MNM also condemned the delay in booking the accused in the Pollachi sex assault case and the delay in deciding on the release of the seven convicts in the 1991 Rajiv Gandhi assassination case. MNM, which was formed in 2018, secured a 3.7% vote share in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. Several former bureaucrats and social activists have joined Haasan’s party.With its resolution on Jayalalithaa death probe, the party has joined the Opposition chorus on the same. DMK chief MK Stalin has said multiple times that if voted to power, his party would conduct a probe into the “mystery” as several questions were raised over the death. The former AIADMK chief died after a prolonged hospitalisation. The ruling AIADMK formed a one-man commission led by retired justice Arumughaswamy in 2017. Stalin blames the Palaniswami-led government for the staggered proceedings. The judicial probe was one of the demands of O Paneerselvam to merge his warring faction with chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami. After Jayalalithaa’s death, Paneerselvam resigned as chief minister to make way for her close aide VK Sasikala, only to rebel against her later. With Sasikala’s return after her four-year imprisonment and her plans to reclaim the AIADMK, the issue of Jayalalithaa’s death looms over the forthcoming polls in Tamil Nadu slated for April- May. The justice Arumughaswamy committee has so far been extended nine times after examining more than 100 witnesses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kamal-haasan-s-mnm-makes-him-permanent-president-of-party-101613041515114.html
11-02-2021||India||2 expenditure observers to curb money power in Tamil Nadu polls||The Election Commission of India says it will send two special expenditure observers to Tamil Nadu to keep a check on money distribution to influence poll outcomes, an acute problem in Tamil Nadu politics. The announcement was made in Chennai by the chief election commissioner, Sunil Arora, after his two-day visit to check the poll-bound state’s readiness for the exercise.“We want to conduct an inducement-free and Covid-19 safe election,” Arora said.In the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, ECI cancelled elections for the Vellore parliamentary seat in Tamil Nadu after more than ₹10 crore was found in cash at a warehouse owned by a political party member. Income Tax officials seized ₹137 crore in unaccounted cash from across the state, days ahead of the Lok Sabha and assembly by-polls. Similarly, in 2017, by-polls in prestigious RK Nagar assembly seat—previously represented by former chief minister J Jayalalithaa--were cancelled twice on bribery charges.“We rescinded polls in Vellore and twice in RK Nagar, which is the harshest action taken by the election commission in any state,” Arora said at a press conference.In its previous visit in December too, the delegation focused on the influence of money, goodies and liquor in the polls.Tamil Nadu will have additional 25,000 polling booths these elections, taking the total number of booths in the state to 93,000. Poll timing will also be extended by an hour. By-poll for Kanyakumari parliamentary seat--left vacant after the death of Congress MP Vasanthakumar, who succumbed to coronavirus last year-- will be conducted along with the polls for 234 assembly seats in the state.On Wednesday, Arora-led election panel met with political parties, which were united in their demand for a single-phase assembly election in the state.The ECI said it was considering their suggestion to hold state polls in April due to heat, examinations and Tamil New Year.“It will be before May 24 when the current assembly term expires,” Arora said.He, however, ruled out parties’ request for counting of votes a couple of days after polling."We explained to the parties that we can't do this when we are conducting polls in five other states, which may be conducted in several phases. Results of one state will affect the voting pattern in another state," Arora said.Also Read: Election fervour in Kerala, Tamil Nadu likely to peak with PM Modi’s visitHe said the panel had received mixed feedback from political parties on enabling postal votes for people with disabilities, health issues and senior citizens. He said some parties were apprehensive of the facility’s possible misuse.He said postal ballots will be implemented so that specified group of voters can vote from home.The principal opposition party, the DMK's petition against postal voting is pending in the Madras high court.The ECI said it was unhappy with the state’s excise department. Following the presser, the team headed to neighbouring Union Territory of Puducherry, which is also going to polls this year in the same cycle as Tamil Nadu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-expenditure-observers-to-curb-money-power-in-tamil-nadu-polls-101613039409831.html
11-02-2021||India||Chamoli glacier burst: Sonar system being used to locate bodies in muddy water||Rescue and search operations were stopped at Tapovan dam tunnel and downstream at around 2.30 pm on Thursday after Chamoli police issued an alert for water level rising in Alaknanda river and appealed to people to remain vigilant, especially those living near its banks, said Praveen Alok, SDRF spokesperson.“Rescue and search operation will resume after water level normalises,” he said.A senior official, wishing not to be named, said, “From the tunnel we are approaching now, we have to reach 180 metres, then take right, where there is a pocket, where the NTPC officials are expecting trapped workers. At around 74 metre in the approaching tunnel, there is another tunnel around 11 metres below. We are trying to put a camera into that tunnel... But it is taking time”, said a senior officer involved in the rescue operation, wishing not to be named.SDRF commandant Navneet Bhullar said 25 to 35 workers are still trapped inside the Tapovan dam tunnel, where rescue operation is underway. He said the muck has been removed from over 100-metre length of the tunnel so far.Also Read | Over 85% of Uttarakhand districts hot spots of extreme floods: AnalysisHe said downstream, SDRF personnel are using underwater sonar systems on a boat to track bodies in muddy waters in the vast waters of Srinagar Dam reservoir. “SDRF has two drones which are being used for geo-mapping of the Tapovan dam tunnel. NDRF has also brought some high endurance drones which are also being used. So we are using all possible means- drones, dog squad, binoculars in the search operation,” he said.Thirty- five bodies have been recovered so far in affected areas of Chamoli district, with 169 people still missing including the workers inside Tapovan dam tunnel, , said officialsSDRF spokesperson Praveen Alok said that on Thursday, one more body was recovered downstream at Galnav neat Karanprayag, taking the death toll to 35. “Ten bodies have been identified so far while efforts are on to identify the rest of the 25 bodies.“Around 7.30am on Thursday, Indian Air Force chopper from Dehradun brought seven drone operators, one NDRF and three SDRF personnel, apart from relief materials, to Chamoli,” he saidAlok added that 100 SDRF personnel, 178 NDRF personnel, 425 personnel of ITBP, one team of Seema Suraksha Bal and 124 army personnel, 16 firemen, 20 revenue officials, and six medical teams are carrying out the rescue and relief operations in the affected areas of Chamoli.Bodies are being recovered by eight teams of SDRF downstream Reni village in areas that include Tapovan, Joshimath, Ghochar, Karnprayag , Rudraprayag, Dharidevi and Srinagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chamoli-glacier-burst-sonar-system-being-used-to-locate-bodies-in-muddy-waters-101613038755128.html
11-02-2021||India||In India-China border disengagement plan, Galwan model is the template||Nine months after being locked in an eyeball-to-eyeball confrontation in the East Ladakh sector, the armoured units of Indian Army and the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) started withdrawing from north and south banks of the frozen Pangong Tso on Wednesday evening, paving a way for peace and tranquillity to be restored all along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) with China.While Defence Minister Rajnath Singh issued a statement on the “phased, coordinated and verifiable” pullback by the two armies in Rajya Sabha today, it was a measure of confidence on part of the Narendra Modi government to ensure that Indian Army stood-up to the PLA through the polar winter in East Ladakh. The disengagement exercise on both banks of Pangong Tso was a result of multiple rounds of back-channel negotiations with external affairs minister S Jaishankar and National Security Advisor Ajit Doval, guided by PM Modi, working behind the scenes. The ground positions were negotiated by the two Corps Commander-rank officers and the framework, through the diplomatic channel.Top government functionaries said the fundamental principle behind the disengagement was that both armies go back to their permanent bases as existed in April 2020. This means that while PLA will withdraw to the Srijap sector, east of Finger 8 mountainous spur on the north bank, the Indian Army will withdraw to the permanent base on Finger 3 named after Lt Colonel Dhan Singh Thapa, the legendary military commander who was awarded the Param Vir Chakra after the 1962 war.The same rule has been applied to the southern bank of the lake where both armies are going back to their permanent bases in Chushul (Indian Army) and Moldo (PLA).“The Galwan model has been replicated on both the banks. After the June 15 Galwan clash, both sides had withdrawn to the permanent bases with no patrolling from side till such time patrolling protocols have been framed. After the withdrawal is completed and confidence-building measures initiated by both armies, the two sides can decide on coordinated, joint or staggered patrolling,” said a senior official in the know of the entire exercise.A person familiar with the understanding reached between the two sides said once the withdrawal of armour, artillery and troops is completed from Pangong Tso, the two sides will initiate negotiations on disengagement from patrolling point 15 (Gogra) and 17 (Hot Springs) area, north of Pangong Tso.#WATCH: Indian Army video of ongoing disengagement process in Ladakh. pic.twitter.com/kXjr0SiPN2The disengagement and subsequent de-escalation from Pangong Tso was achieved after quiet backchannel conversations between the two sides after the Xi Jinping regime had tested the Indian Army during the polar winter in East Ladakh with temperatures touching below 40 degrees centigrade. It is a major victory for the Modi government as pushing the PLA back to its base on the Srijap sector from Finger 4 was no mean achievement as the latter wanted a military leg up on Indian Army.The Indian negotiating position got a great boost after NSA Doval along with Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat and Army Chief Mukund Naravane planned and managed to place the Indian Army troopers on the Rezang La Rechin La alignment on Kailash Ranges on August 29-30, 2020 despite valid fears of an India-China conflict. Just as the Chinese PLA tried to enforce the 1959 LAC line by aggression on Finger 4, the Indian side countered by achieving their military objective of holding up the Kailash Range line as per Indian perception of LAC.Despite both India and China spending millions in military deployment on East Ladakh, the Modi government managed to restore status quo ante without ceding an inch of land, a point emphasised by defence minister Rajnath Singh in Parliament. Restoration of status quo ante on LAC will not only add to Indian Army and Modi government’s military credibility but also persuade President Xi Jinping to restrain his Western Theatre Commander to undertake any military misadventure in future. After the 2017 Doklam and 2021 Pangong Tso on-going resolution, the new western theatre commander will have to think many times before undertaking unilateral change on the LAC. The Indian Army is watching.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-india-china-s-border-disengagement-plan-galwan-model-is-the-template-101613036016063.html
11-02-2021||India||AstraZeneca working to adapt vaccine to new strains||AstraZeneca said Thursday it's working with the University of Oxford to adapt its Covid-19 vaccine to protect against new strains of the virus as public health officials raise concerns about mutations that may make the virus more resistant to existing vaccines.The Anglo-Swedish drugmaker worked with Oxford to develop one of the first Covid-19 vaccines authorized for widespread use. AstraZeneca said it hopes to cut the time needed to produce large amounts of any new vaccine to between six and nine months.Also read| Explained: How are experts tracking variants of the coronavirus?The comments came as Astra-Zeneca said fourth-quarter net income rose to USD 1.01 billion from USD 313 million in the same quarter a year earlier. Drug sales increased 11 per cent to USD 7.41 billion, driven by a 24 per cent increase in cancer treatments.The company posted USD 2 million of revenue from its Covid-19 vaccine, which it has pledged to supply on a non-profit basis during the pandemic, and said it would begin reporting sales of the vaccine separately beginning in the next quarter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/astrazeneca-working-to-adapt-vaccine-to-new-strains-101613036400658.html
11-02-2021||India||Kerala orders probe into oil spill from titanium factory to sea||A day after furnace oil from the state-run Travancore Titanium Products Limited (TTPL) in Thiruvananthapuram leaked into the adjoining Arabian Sea, the government ordered a probe and launched an emergency cleaning operation. Though the company said the leak was plugged effectively, fishermen and local people alleged that it started affecting marine life in the periphery of sea.TTPL was closed temporarily after the oil spill. District authorities planned to shift people living near the factory after a nauseating smell filled the air.The oil leak was first noticed by some fishermen on Wednesday and they immediately alerted the company which plugged the leak. TTPL chairman AR Rasheed said the spill was caused due to a rupture in a furnace oil pipeline to the company and roughly 5,000 litres were spilled and a portion of it reached the sea through a drainage line.Also Read | Kerala CM junks opposition allegations of backdoor appointments in govt serviceThe carcass of a big sea turtle washed up on Veli beach on Wednesday night, creating panic. Fishermen alleged that fish and other marine creatures were destroyed. But marine experts said the death of the turtle can’t be immediately attributed to the spillage because such creatures inhabit the deep sea. Officials said the real cause of death will be ascertained only after an autopsy.“The government on Thursday constituted a three-member panel to inquire the mishap. Our initial inquiry suggests that a rupture in an old pipeline triggered the leak. TTPL will compensate the affected as per the government directive,” said Rasheed. Employees of the company joined local people and fishermen to clean up the beach at several places. The Coast Guard’s help was also sought to clean up the beach and the sea.District collector Navjot Khosa, who visited the affected areas, prohibited fishing in the area and restricted tourists and others for two days. She said top-soil along the affected stretch will be removed. The coast guard also said it was monitoring the situation.“The neglect on the part of TTPL was quite visible. It was noticed by fishermen in the sea and their inquiry led to the company. Officials noticed the leak only after their alert,” said Jerin Peter, a local, adding the fisher community was the worst-affected. He said many people complained of breathing problems.Congress and BJP workers carried out a protest march before the company seeking action against officials and compensation to the affected. The pollution control board has also pulled up TTPL. TTPL extracts rich minerals from the sand and manufacture titanium dioxide pigment from the limonite abundantly found along the south Kerala coast.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-orders-probe-into-oil-spill-from-titanium-factory-to-sea-101613037795272.html
11-02-2021||India||India will not allow an inch of its territory to be taken by anyone: Rajnath||India and China have reached an agreement on disengagement in the North and South bank of Pangong lake in eastern Ladakh that mandates both sides to cease forward deployment of troops in a "phased, coordinated and verifiable" manner, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh announced in Parliament on Thursday, in a breakthrough after a nine-month border standoff.Sharing details of the pact to defuse the tense military face-off in eastern Ladakh that severely strained ties between the two Asian giants, Singh also assured the Rajya Sabha that India has not conceded anything in the sustained talks with China. India will not allow even an inch of its territory to be taken by anyone, he said.The defence minister said implementation of the pact will "substantially restore" the situation to the one which existed prior to the standoff that erupted on May 5 last, adding the two sides have agreed they should achieve complete disengagement at the "earliest" and abide fully by the bilateral agreements and protocols.Making a statement in the Upper House a day after China announced the disengagement process, Singh said both sides have agreed to remove structures that had been built since April last in North and South bank areas, and put in place a temporary moratorium on military activities including patrolling the traditional areas.The defence minister said under the agreement the Chinese People's Liberation Army(PLA) will keep its troops in the North bank area to east of Finger 8 and the Indian troops will be based at their permanent base at Dhan Singh Thapa Post near Finger 3 in the Pangong lake areas, a major site of friction between the two large armies.Also Watch| ‘We’ve lost nothing’: Rajnath Singh on disengagement along LAC with China﻿﻿He said the implementation of the pact started on Wednesday and it was agreed to convene the next meeting of senior commanders of both sides within 48 hours of completion of the disengagement in the Pangong lake area so as to resolve all other remaining issues."I am happy to inform the House today that as a result of our well thought out approach and sustained talks with the Chinese side, we have now been able to reach an agreement on disengagement in the North and South bank of the Pangong lake," the defence minister said.The border standoff between the Indian and Chinese militaries erupted on May 5 following a violent clash in the Pangong lake areas and both sides gradually enhanced their deployment by rushing in tens of thousands of soldiers as well as heavy weaponry even as the two sides continued military and diplomatic talks."The agreement that we have been able to reach with the Chinese side for disengagement in the Pangong lake area envisages that both sides will cease their forward deployments in a phased, coordinated and verified manner." "The Chinese side will keep its troop presence in the North bank area to east of Finger 8. Reciprocally, the Indian troops will be based at their permanent base at Dhan Singh Thapa post near Finger 3. A similar action would be taken in the South bank area by both sides," he said.The defence minister said patrolling will be resumed in the areas only when both sides reach an agreement in diplomatic and military talks that would be held subsequently.He said these are mutual and reciprocal steps and any structures that had been built by both sides since April 2020 in both North and South bank areas will be removed and the landforms will be restored."I want to assure this House that in these talks we have not conceded anything. The House should also know that there are still some outstanding issues with regard to deployment and patrolling at some other points along the Line of Actual Control(LAC) in eastern Ladakh," he said."These will be the focus of further discussions with the Chinese side. We have agreed that both sides should achieve complete disengagement at the earliest and abide fully by the bilateral agreements and protocols." Noting that the Chinese side is fully aware of India's resolve by now, he said it is India's expectation that the neighbouring country will work with the Indian side in full sincerity to resolve these remaining issues."I would like this House to join me in paying gratitude to our armed forces who have shown grit and resolve under these extremely harsh climatic conditions of Ladakh which has resulted in the present agreement," he said."Our Nation will always remember the sacrifices made by our brave soldiers which has been the foundation of this disengagement at Pangong Tso lake." The defence minister exuded confidence that the entire House, irrespective of political affiliations, is united together for upholding the country's "sovereignty, unity, territorial integrity and national security"."And further, this House is one in sending out the same message demonstrating the strength and unity of our Nation to the entire world," he said.In the nine rounds of military talks, India had specifically insisted on withdrawal of Chinese troops from Finger 4 to Finger 8 on the North bank of Pangong Lake. The mountain spurs in the area are referred to as Fingers.On its part, the Chinese side was insisting on withdrawal of Indian troops from several strategic peaks on the southern bank of the lake. Around five months back, Indian troops occupied a number of strategic heights in the Mukhpari, Rechin La and Magar hill areas around the southern bank after the Chinese PLA attempted to intimidate them in the area.China on Wednesday said the Chinese and Indian frontline troops at the southern and northern bank of the Pangong Tso started "synchronised and organised disengagement" from February 10 in accordance with the consensus reached by both sides at the ninth round of China-India Corps Commander- Level meeting. The ninth round was held on January 24 and it lasted for around 16 hours.Both sides had rushed a large number of battle tanks, armoured vehicles and heavy equipment to the treacherous and high-altitude areas of eastern Ladakh region after tension escalated following a deadly clash in the Galwan Valley in June last.Twenty Indian soldiers were killed in the fierce hand-to-hand combat on June 15 in Galwan Valley, an incident that marked the most serious military conflicts between the two sides in decades.China is yet to disclose the number of its soldiers killed and injured in the clash though it officially admitted to have suffered casualties. According to an American intelligence report, the number of casualties on the Chinese side was 35.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-will-not-allow-an-inch-of-its-territory-to-be-taken-by-anyone-rajnath-101613036019538.html
11-02-2021||India||18 of 31 ministers in Nitish’s govt have criminal cases against them: ADR report||Eighteen of the 31 ministers in Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar’s government have criminal cases registered against them, according to an Association for Democratic Reforms (ADR) and Election Watch report based on affidavits of 28 of them. As many as 14 of the ministers face serious criminal cases.Two ministers, Ashok Choudhary and Janak Ram, so far are not members of the state legislature and hence their details are unavailable. The affidavit of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) minister Ram Surat Kumar was incomplete on the Election Commission’s website and was not analysed.Also Read | Nitish Kumar expands Cabinet. Here’s a list of new Bihar ministersEleven of the 14 ministers (79%) belong to the BJP. Four Janata Dal-United ministers face criminal cases. Three others – one each from the Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular), Vikassheel Insaan Party, and an independent – also have serious criminal cases pending against them.An earlier analysis of ADR & Election Watch found 163 (68%) of the 241 newly elected assembly members in the state face criminal cases like the attempt to murder. Out of 243 lawmakers elected in 2015, 142 (58%) had criminal cases registered against them.Twenty-six out of the 28 ministers (93%) have average assets of Rs4.46 crore. Water resources minister Sanjay Kumar Jha is the richest with assets worth Rs22.37 crore. Jama Khan of the JD-U has the lowest-- Rs30.04 lakh. Eleven ministers are school dropouts, while 16 are graduate or above. Age-wise, 11 ministers are below 50.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/18-of-31-ministers-in-nitish-s-govt-have-criminal-cases-against-them-adr-report-101613036175074.html
11-02-2021||India||Ballot paper vs EVMs: 'Fully trust voting machines,' says Ajit Pawar||Maharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Thursday defended the Electronic Voting Machines (EVM), saying that political parties blame the machines when they lose elections but, when they win, ‘everything is fine.’ Pawar further stressed that ‘I have full faith in EVMs.’Also Read | Maharashtra may propose law for ballot papers in elections“The EVMs were used when Congress came to power in Rajasthan and Punjab. When a party wins an election everything is fine but when they lose badly, they allege that EVM has been managed. For example, Maharashtra has 48 Lok Sabha seats but if a party, let’s say, wins only 4-5 seats, its workers say that bumper voting took place in our village so we should’ve won at least 8,000 out of 10,000 votes. Hence, they suspect that something is wrong with the EVM,” the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader said, as per news agency ANI.Also Read | Law on ballot paper: Speaker tells Maharashtra to mull possibility“There’s no such thing, EVM works fine. What can I say? I fully trust the EVMs,” Pawar further said.#WATCH | Even when EVMs were there, Congress govt was elected in Punjab, Rajasthan. Often several parties blame EVMs when they lose polls but when they win, then everything is fine. I have full faith in EVMs: Maharashtra Deputy CM Ajit Pawar pic.twitter.com/eOo13PR7HwThe Maharashtra deputy chief minister’s remarks come in the wake of Nana Patole, the newly-appointed state Congress chief, directing the state government to explore the option of allowing ballot papers, in addition to EVMs, for all future state and local body elections. Patole had given these directions last week as the Speaker of the Maharashtra assembly; he has since resigned and will take over as the Maharashtra Congress president on Friday.Also Read | Nana Patole to take charge as Maharashtra Congress chief on FridayMaharashtra is governed by the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) coalition, comprising the Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress. Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray is the incumbent chief minister.Opposition parties have often alleged that the EVMs can be tampered with, demanding that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led central government bring back the ballot paper system. However, the BJP has defended the machines, saying that they too have lost elections in which EVMs have been used. The Election Commission, too, has rubbished allegations against the machines, saying that these cannot be tampered with.The Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) and Congress, who teamed up for last year’s Bihar assembly elections, had alleged ‘EVM tampering’ after being defeated narrowly by the BJP-led ruling coalition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ballot-paper-vs-evms-maharashtra-deputy-cm-says-fully-trusts-voting-machines-101613035150497.html
11-02-2021||India||Government has failed to stimulate demand: P Chidambaram||Congress leader P Chidambaram told the Rajya Sabha on Thursday that the government has failed to stimulate demand for growth in the country and the GDP will go back to the figures of three years ago because of "incompetent economic mismanagement".He claimed that the budget for 2021-22 has failed as even a small amount of cash transfer has not been given to the poor and the rations are not being continued with."Every economist in the world has said we have to stimulate demand and the best way to stimulate demand is to put money in the hands of people. This government has failed on that account. I repeat the charge. You are still not learning the lessons of the last 36 months. I am afraid that as a result of your not learning the lessons, another 12 months will be lost and the poor will suffer and suffer greatly," the former finance minister said in the Upper House of Parliament.He said the GDP (Gross Domestic Product) in 2004-05, in constant prices, was about ₹32.42 lakh crore and when the Congress-led UPA demitted office in 2013-14, it was a little more than three times at ₹105 lakh crore."Since then what has happened? In 2017-18, it was ₹131 lakh crore. In 2018-19, it crept up to ₹139 lakh crore. In 2019-20, it was a slower crawl to ₹145 lakh crore and in 2020-21, the year that is about to end, the first half is about ₹60 lakh crore and the year may end at about ₹130 lakh crore, which means we are back to where we were in 2017-18," Chidambaram said.He alleged that the country has witnessed three years of "incompetent economic mismanagement"."The honourable finance minister took exception to my using the word incompetent. I cannot use a harsher word in Parliament. I am using the mildest word available to me. Three years of incompetent economic mismanagement means that at the end of 2020-21, we will be exactly where we were in 2017-18," the Congress leader said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/government-has-failed-to-stimulate-demand-p-chidambaram-101613035309293.html
11-02-2021||India||Uttarakhand flash flood: Rescue ops, halted after rise in Rishiganga river level, resume||Rescuers resumed their operation after they were stopped temporarily following a rise in the level of water in the Rishiganga river, news agency ANI reported on Thursday. "The water level is rising so teams were shifted to safer locations. The operation has resumed with limited teams,” personnel of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), was quoted as saying by ANI.Before this, Uttarakhand’s director general of police Ashok Kumar had said that people have also been asked to vacate the areas downstream, ANI had reported. Local police also said that the water level in the river is rising and people living in nearby areas are being alerted.“We had reached a distance of 6 metres and then realised that water is coming there. Had we continued, there would have been issues as rocks are unstable. Excavators would have fallen. So, we have suspended drilling operation for time being,” Ujjwal Bhattacharya, NTPC’s project director, was quoted as saying by ANI earlier.Aparna Kumar, deputy inspector general of the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP), had said earlier in the day that rescue operations were underway inside Tapovan tunnel in Chamoli. "There is a possibility that some more people could be stuck inside the tunnel. NTPC team is using vertical drilling to find their whereabouts," Kumar was quoted as saying by ANI.Also watch | Disturbing visuals of workers getting washed away in UttarakhandITBP’s troops are helping to construct a bridge across villages disconnected in Chamoli and which will be used to transport ration. Rescuers had begun drilling inside the 2.5km Tapovan tunnel in Chamoli to rescue more than 35 workers trapped there after Sunday’s flash flood, news agency Reuters said.According to Reuters, soldiers have made only halting progress in four days and after clearing more than 100 metres of mud, rocks and debris, relief workers on Thursday sent water tankers and generators deep into the tunnel to assist in drilling. They are trying to search for signs of life in smaller tunnels and rooms branching off from the main passage, Reuters reported citing officials said.Meanwhile, the death toll after the flash flood in Chamoli district has risen to 34, out of which 10 have been identified, and 204 people are still missing, ANI had reported earlier in the day. The news agency also cited the State Secretariat as saying that the two people, working with the Rishi Ganga company and said to be missing, have reached their homes.The people who are unaccounted for since Sunday's disaster are mostly workers at the Tapovan Vishnugad hydroelectric project and at the smaller Rishiganga dam, which was swept away by the barrage of water.A glacier broke in Chamoli’s Tapovan-Reni area on Sunday, which led to massive flooding in Dhauliganga and Alaknanda rivers as bridges and roads were swept away.The Council on Energy, Environment and Water (CEEW) has said in an analysis that more than 85% of Uttarakhand’s districts are hotspots of extreme floods and associated weather events. The council said in its analysis the frequency and intensity of extreme flood events in Uttarakhand have increased four-fold since 1970. Flood related events such as landslides, cloud bursts, glacial lake outbursts, etc. have also increased four-fold during this period, causing massive loss and damage, it added.Chamoli, where the glacial breach disaster took place last Sunday, Haridwar, Nainital, Pithoragarh and Uttarkashi districts are the most vulnerable to extreme floods according to the analysis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rescue-ops-stopped-temporarily-in-chamoli-after-rishiganga-s-water-level-rises-101613034944533.html
11-02-2021||India||With AIMIM's support, TRS wins Hyderabad Mayor, deputy Mayor posts||Gadwal Vijayalakshmi of Telangana Rashtra Samithi was on Thursday elected Mayor of Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation, thanks to the strategic support from the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) at the eleventh hour. Another TRS corporator Mothe Srilatha Reddy from Tarnaka division was elected Deputy Mayor. She defeated Shankar Yadav of the BJP.Vijayalakshmi, who represents Banjara Hills division of the GHMC, is the daughter of TRS parliamentary party leader K Kesava Rao. She defeated the Bharatiya Janata Party candidate Radha Dheeraj Reddy, corporator from R K Puram division.She is the first woman Mayor after the formation of Telangana state in 2014 and the second woman to occupy the chair after the formation of GHMC in 2009, the first one being Banda Kartika Reddy of the Congress.Both Vijayalakshmi and Srilatha were chosen by TRS president and chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao and their names forwarded to the party in a sealed cover. The names were announced by TRS working president K T Rama Rao at a meeting of the newly-elected TRS corporators at the GHMC premises.TRS corporator from Khairatabad, P Vijayalakshmi, who was the front-runner for the Mayor post, walked out of the meeting in protest. She did not take part in the voting.The elections to the GHMC held on December 1 witnessed a close contest between the TRS and the BJP. The TRS won only 56 seats in the 150-member GHMC council and was 20 seats short of the absolute majority.The BJP finished a close second with 48 seats. The AIMIM retained its strength of 44 seats, which it had in the previous term. The Congress ended up with just two seats.Though the TRS was 20 seats short of the majority mark, it was hopeful of winning the Mayor and deputy Mayor posts with the help of 38 co-option members, including the party MPs, MLAs and MLCs who registered their vote in GHMC limits.The BJP had only two co-option members so the chances of winning the Mayor and deputy Mayor posts were very bleak. Interestingly, the AIMIM, which has 44 seats and 10 co-option votes, announced that it would also field candidates for the two posts, making the contest more interesting.Including the co-option members, the total number of members taking part in the voting on Thursday was 193 and the TRS required 97 votes to grab the top posts. However, it had only 88 votes – 56 elected corporators and 32 co-option members and it made the contest tight.However, a few minutes before the election of Mayor and deputy mayor was held at 12.30 pm, the AIMIM announced that it was dropping out of the contest and was extending support to the TRS, much to the shock of the BJP.As a result, the TRS could get 100 votes (56 of TRS and 44 of AIMIM) and it could walk away with both the Mayor and deputy Mayor posts comfortably, without banking the co-option votes.Earlier, the oath taking ceremony of the newly elected corporators of the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) was completed with Presiding Officer Swetha Mohanthy conducting the proceedings. Election Observer Sandeep Kumar Sultania monitored the proceedings.The members took their oath en masse in four different languages, Telugu, Urdu, Hindi and English.Expressing happiness over her election as Mayor, Vijayalakshmi thanked KCR and KTR for reposing faith in her. “As a woman Mayor, my first priority is to ensure safety and security to women in the city and develop Hyderabad as a global city,” she said.BJP legislator from Hyderabad T Raja Singh said the TRS had dug its own grave by taking the support from the MIM. “It is nothing but a betrayal of faith of the people of Hyderabad. In the coming assembly elections, the TRS will have to pay a penalty for the same,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-aimim-s-support-trs-wins-hyderabad-mayor-deputy-mayor-posts-101613034244056.html
11-02-2021||India||Aligarh farmers' meeting: RLD leader Jayant Chaudhary, 5000 others booked||The Uttar Pradesh Police has booked RLD leader Jayant Chaudhary and over 5000 others who attended a major farmers' meeting in Aligarh district two days ago under the Epidemic Diseases Act for allegedly violating Covid-19 protocols.The FIR, lodged around 9:30 pm on Tuesday, names only 22 individuals, including Chaudhary, while the others are unnamed.“Around five to six thousand people were attending the farmers' mahapanchayat in protest against three new central farm laws where RLD leader Jayant Chaudhary also came and support raised for (BKU leader) Rakesh Tikait in the event presided by Chaudhary Raj Singh,” the FIR stated.“The event was held amid Covid-19 pandemic with participants in attendance without face masks, not adhering to social distancing rules and in violation of CrPC 144 orders,” it added.Attaching a news report about the FIR on around 5,000 people, Chaudhary on Thursday morning tweeted, “Baba can tell us when and where should I come to be arrested”, in a veiled reference to Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath.The FIR has been lodged under Indian Penal Code sections sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (unlawfully or negligently spreading infection of any disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and under section 3 of the Epidemic Diseases Act.Those booked have also been charged with rioting under section 147 of the IPC, the FIR lodged over complaint by a local sub-inspector at the Gonda police station in Aligarh stated.The Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) has been holding a series of meetings with the farmers in UP and is scheduled to have such events till February end in a bid to reach out to the people over the three contentious central agri-marketing laws enacted last September.Thousands of farmers are encamped at Delhi's border points at Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur since November end with a demand that the Centre repeal these laws and make a new one to guarantee minimum support price for crops.The government, which has held 11 rounds of talks with the protesting farmers unions, has maintained the laws are pro-farmer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aligarh-farmers-meeting-rld-leader-jayant-chaudhary-5000-others-booked-101613032013001.html
11-02-2021||India||BJP does not believe in political untouchability, says PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday said the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) does not believe in political untouchability and his government has honoured even its critics for their role in nation building. He underlined the need for consensus in the polity. Modi said while numbers are needed to form the government, the country is run on consensus. “Politics for us is the means to achieve a national policy. As I said earlier, the government may run with a majority, but nations are run with consensus,” he said in his address to BJP lawmakers on the death anniversary of the party’s ideologue Deen Dayal Upadhyaya. “The idea of political untouchability is not in our culture. The country has rejected this idea. In our party, importance is given to the worker even as we reject dynasty.”Modi said BJP’s critics such as late former President Pranab Mukherjee, former Assam chief minister Tarun Gogoi and Nagaland’s S C Jamir have been honoured for their contribution to nation building. Mukherjee was given the highest civilian award, the Bharat Ratna, Gogoi and Jamir have also been awarded Padma Bhushan, the third-highest. “They were neither part of the BJP nor even allies of the party. But it was our duty to honour their contributions,” said Modi.Also Read | Election fervour in Kerala, Tamil Nadu likely to peak with PM Modi’s visitModi said differences with political opponents should not come in the way of extending courtesy and respect. He said freedom fighter Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose was given the honour he deserved and tribute was paid to the country’s first home minister, Vallabhbhai Patel, by getting the world’s tallest statue made for him in Gujarat. “...Baba Saheb [Bhimrao] Ambedkar [the architect of the Constitution] got the Bharat Ratna [in 1990] when a government was formed with the BJP’s support,” Modi said.Earlier this week, Modi made an emotional speech in the Rajya Sabha when three of the four opposition lawmakers retired. Modi, while bidding farewell to the Leader of the opposition Ghulam Nabi Azad, broke down while recalling his response to a terror attack.Modi said the BJP has imbibed the ideals of Mahatma Gandhi--love and compassion.On self-reliance, Modi, who has earlier given the slogan of “vocal for local”, said the lawmakers must take stock of the things that they use to assess how many of these are made abroad. “The entire country is awakened to the idea of Aatma Nirbhaya Bharat [self-reliant India]. We are on the verge of reaching 75 years of independence. I call upon every one of you to carry out 75 tasks that serve society as a tribute to our 75 years of Independence.”Modi said transformational changes were taking place in the field of infrastructure to make the lives of citizens easier. He spoke about the growing volume of digital transactions and said India is witnessing changes in every sphere including defence with the focus on made in India weapons and fighters like Tejas.“In 1965 during the India-Pakistan war, India had to depend on other countries for weapons... Deendayalji said at that time that we have to build an India that is self-reliant not just in agriculture but also in defence and weaponry. We took the decisions that were deemed difficult in the country and we took them with everyone.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-does-not-believe-in-political-untouchability-sayspmmodi-101613032634317.html
11-02-2021||India||Farm stir: 1st mahapanchayat in Punjab today after success in UP, Haryana||Instead of focusing only on Delhi borders where the farmers have been camping since November, the focus of the protest has been rest to concentrate more on garnering support. And after massive turnout and success at mahapanchayats in Muzzaffarnagar, Jind, Dadri, Kurukshetra, Saharanpur, Shamli and Rajasthan;s Bharatpur, for the first time in Punjab — one of the epicentres of the ongoing protest — a mahapanchayat is being held.What is a mahapanchayat?A mahapanchayat is an assembly of people belonging to several surrounding villages. Though farmers are the main constituents of these mahapanchayats, other workers are also joining these gatherings. Khap panchayats generally call these mega gatherings. Revival of farmers' protestThe mahapanchayats are being seen a revival point of the farmers' protest which came under fire after Republic Day violence when a group of protesters breached the security of the Red Fort and hoisted religious flags. While the entire Republic Day episode in under scrutiny, farmers are getting support for their issue from mahapanchayats.What happened in the mahapanchayats so farDemands of "gaddi wapsi"have been raised in one of the gatherings if the government fails to repeal the farm laws. Protesters resisted the presence of political leaders at their protest site in Delhi. But these gatherings have become political platforms in the past few days as Congress leaders Priyanka Gandhi, Sachin Pilot addressed mahapanchayats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-stir-1st-mahapanchayat-in-punjab-today-after-success-in-up-haryana-101613031378800.html
11-02-2021||India||Assam Budget presentation deferred due to clash with governor's speech||The tabling of Assam's interim Budget was postponed on Thursday hours before its schedule, an assembly official said.The tabling of the interim Budget was postponed to Friday, stating that it clashed with the Governor's address but sources claimed that it was deferred as state Finance Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma was accompanying Union Home Minister Amit Shah, who reached the state in the early hours on a sudden "personal visit".It is the last Budget of the present BJP-led government before the state goes to the polls.The three-day session of the Assam Legislative Assembly is scheduled to continue till Saturday."The Business Advisory Committee (BAC) last night decided to defer presentation of the Budget to Friday because the Governor's speech was there today. The BAC saw that keeping two important presentations on the same day would have dragged the affairs for a long time," Assam Assembly Secretary Amarendra Narayan Deka told PTI.He denied that the development has any connection to the visit of Shah.As per the Assembly Calendar of the present session, 'Vote on Accounts Budget for 2021-22' was listed at serial number 9 of Thursday's business.Shah arrived around 2.30 am in Guwahati and met Ananta Roy of the Koch-Rajbongshi community at Chatipur in Assam's Chirang district in the morning.Shah's meeting with the Greater Coochbehar Peoples' Association leader comes ahead of the assembly elections in neighbouring West Bengal.Sarma, a powerful BJP leader in the Northeast, was accompanying Shah and that is why "the budget could not be presented today", sources said.When contacted, several spokespersons of the BJP said they were unaware of Shah's visit to the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-budget-presentation-deferred-due-to-a-clash-with-governor-s-speech-101613027383462.html
11-02-2021||India||India to see average salary increase of 6.4 per cent in 2021: Survey||Salaries in India are projected to rise by an average of 6.4 per cent in 2021, marginally higher than the average actual increase of 5.9 per cent in 2020, according to a Willis Towers Watson survey.According to Willis Towers Watson's latest Salary Budget Planning Survey report, an average salary increase of 6.4 per cent in 2021 translates to a median increase of 7 per cent."As companies in India respond to the economic implications of the COVID-19 crisis, there is an increased optimism on business recovery, but it is yet to translate into the salary increment budget," said Rajul Mathur, Consulting Head – Talent & Rewards, Willis Towers Watson India.Mathur further said that with compensation budgets lower than previous years, companies are likely to prioritise allocation towards protecting critical and high skilled talent. "Through 2021, we can continue to expect greater emphasis on pay for performance and pay linked to business output," Mathur said.As per the survey, on average, 20.6 per cent of the salary increase budget is being allocated to top performers, which represent 10.3 per cent of the employees in India."This implies that for each INR 1 allocated to an average performer, INR 2.35 is allocated to a top performer and INR 1.25 is allocated to an above average performer," the survey said.The survey further noted that median salary increase at the executive level for 2021 is projected at 7 per cent, a slight decline from 7.1 per cent in the previous year.For middle management, professional and support staff, a decrease from 7.5 per cent in 2020 to 7.3 per cent in 2021 is projected.The Salary Budget Planning Report is compiled by Willis Towers Watson’s Data Services Practice. The survey was conducted online in October/November 2020 and received over 18,000 sets of responses covering over 130 countries worldwide.A comparison of projected salary increases across key markets in Asia Pacific this year shows that Indonesia is projected at 6.5 per cent, China at 6 per cent, Philippines at 5 per cent, Singapore at 3.5 per cent and Hong Kong at 3 per cent.Of the surveyed companies in India, 37 per cent have projected a positive business revenue outlook for the next 12 months, up from 18 per cent in Q3 2020. However, recruitment is yet to pick up.The study showed that only 10 per cent of the organisations in India plan to add new headcount compared to 14 per cent last quarter.A sector wise analysis shows that, high tech, pharmaceuticals and consumer products and retail, project a median salary increase around 8 per cent -- more than the general industry projection.The financial services and manufacturing sector projects a 7 per cent increase in 2021, while the BPO sector is at 6 per cent. The energy sector is expected to see the lowest increase of 4.6 per cent.“All sectors witnessed varying levels of impact due to Covid-19. Some sectors such as hospitality, aviation, travel and tourism were hit harder than the others. Sectors such as pharma, FMCG, e-commerce and high-tech have experienced growth and this is reflective in their hiring plans and salary budgets for 2021," said Arvind Usretay, Director, Rewards, Willis Towers Watson India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-see-average-salary-increase-of-6-4-per-cent-in-2021-survey-101613024676707.html
11-02-2021||India||Over 85% of Uttarakhand districts, including Chamoli, hot spots of extreme floods: Analysis||Over 85% of districts in Uttarakhand are hot spots of extreme floods and associated weather events, according to an analysis by the Council on Energy, Environment and Water (CEEW).The frequency and intensity of extreme flood events in Uttarakhand have increased four-fold since 1970, the analysis said on Thursday. Flood related events such as landslides, cloud bursts, glacial lake outbursts, etc. have also increased four-fold during this period, causing massive loss and damage.Chamoli where the glacial breach disaster took place last Sunday, Haridwar, Nainital, Pithoragarh, and Uttarkashi districts are the most vulnerable to extreme floods according to the analysis.The findings are from the CEEW report titled: Preparing India for Extreme Climate Events released in December which highlighted that even with a 0.6 degree C rise in temperature over the past century, India is facing devastating consequences. CEEW has coupled information available from globally validated data sheets with data from other sources like the India Meteorological Department, World Meteorological Organization, and Press Information Bureau.Also Read | Rescue teams begin drilling operations at Uttarakhand flood siteThe team developed a gridded exposure sheet of climate events; and a geo-spatial analysis of extreme climate events using coarse grain resolution temporal maps.CEEW programme lead Abinash Mohanty said, “The recent devastating flash flood in Uttarakhand is further proof that the climate crisis can no longer be ignored. In the last 20 years, Uttarakhand has lost more than 50,000 hectares of forest cover, leading to micro climatic changes in the region. This, in turn, has triggered a rise in extreme climate events in the state. A focus on land use-based forest restoration could not only reverse the climate imbalance but also help promote sustainable tourism in the state. Equally important would be climate proofing of infrastructure, investments, and policies. This is no more an option, rather a national imperative to tackle such extreme events and ensure minimal loss and damage.”The report had found more than 75% of India’s districts are hot spots of extreme climate events and estimated that 97.51 million people are exposed to extreme floods in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-85-uttarakhand-districts-hot-spots-of-extreme-floods-analysis-101613031554384.html
11-02-2021||India||Passenger vehicle sales in India up 11 per cent in January||Passenger vehicle wholesales in India increased by 11.14 per cent to 2,76,554 units last month, auto industry body SIAM said on Thursday.Passenger vehicle sales in January 2020 stood at 2,48,840 units.As per the latest data by Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers (SIAM), two-wheeler dispatches to dealers also rose 6.63 per cent to 14,29,928 units, compared to 13,41,005 units in January 2020.Motorcycle sales increased 5.1 per cent to 9,16,365 units as against 8,71,886 in January 2020.Scooter sales were also up 9.06 per cent at 4,54,315 units from 4,16,567 units a year ago.Three-wheeler sales, however, declined by 56.76 per cent to 26,335 units as compared with ₹60,903 units in January last year.Vehicle sales across categories rose by 4.97 per cent to 17,32,817 units last month as against 16,50,812 units in the year ago period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/passenger-vehicle-sales-in-india-up-11-per-cent-in-january-101613022487733.html
11-02-2021||India||Sapna Choudhary booked by Delhi Police in cheating case||Haryanvi singer and dancer Sapna Choudhary has been booked by Delhi Police's economic offences wing after a company accused her of cheating to the tune of crores and breaching terms of agreement. The actor has been booked under IPC sections 420, 120 B, 406.According to reports, the case goes back to 2018 when the Big Boss 11 contestant approached the PR company through a common friend and an agreement was signed between them.Sapna allegedly took money for a stage show but did not perform. She also breached the agreement of the contract, the company alleged.Also read| Rajnath Singh’s full statement on ‘present situation’ in eastern Ladakh"The preliminary enquiry was conducted into this joint complaint by the undersigned and prima facie, enquiry discloses that the alleged persons mentioned in the complaint, in the conspiracy with each other have cheated complainants by not returning the loan amount obtained through loan cum trust agreements etc. Prima facie, an offence u/s 406/420/120-B IPC is made out," the FIR copy said.Her mother, Neelam, has also been accused along with her siblings Shivaini and Karana and sister-in-law, Rachna. Sapna will soon be served a notice to join the investigation.The popular singer from Mahipalpur, Delhi, rose to fame after her Big Boss stint. From Nanu ki Janu to Veere ki Wedding, she has played several roles in item songs and movies. After recognition in Haryana and adjoining states, she went for her Bollywood debut with an item number in the movie, Journay to Bhangover.The mother of one has also appeared in TV show Lado - Virpur ki Mardaani which is a sequel of the popular show Na Aana Is Desh Lado.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sapna-choudhary-booked-by-delhi-police-in-cheating-case-101613029614091.html
11-02-2021||India||No VIP treatment at Amavasya: Pragyaraj I-G after Priyanka's Sangam announcement||On the occasion of Mauni Amavasya on Thursday, Prayagraj Inspector General (IG), KP Singh said that no special treatment will be given to anyone visiting the Mela."As today is the peak day for Mela, we will not give VIP treatment to anyone. There is no protocol, they can come like a normal person and participate in the rituals," IG said.This comes after the All India Congress Committee (AICC) General Secretary and in-charge of Uttar Pradesh Priyanka Gandhi Vadra announced that she will take a holy dip at Sangam in Prayagraj on the occasion of Mauni Amavasya.The Congress leader will also participate in that Magh Mela at Sangam.According to sources, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra will first stay at Anand Bhawan, from where she will proceed to Sangam."No political program has been planned during her visit. She will return to Delhi in the evening," said the sources.However, contrary to the sources' claim, the actions of UP Congress in-charge cannot be seen without a political prism. Her plans and programs are always designed with a motive keeping the image of the party in mind.Priyanka Gandhi Vadra is the sole face of Congress in Uttar Pradesh, where the party is trying to regain the political ground lost almost three decades ago.The holy dip seems like a nod to the Hindutva cadre in the state. Yesterday too, while on her way to Kisan Panchayat in Chilkana, the Congress leader visited the Shaktipeeth Shakambhari Devi temple.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-vip-treatment-at-amavasya-pragyaraj-i-g-after-priyanka-s-sangam-announcement-101613027535833.html
11-02-2021||India||'Mamata too will chant Jai Shri Ram when election ends': Amit Shah in Bengal||Taking a swipe at West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, Union home minister Amit Shah on Thursday said when the election comes to an end, Banerjee too will chant 'Jai Shri Ram'. "Jai Shri Ram chant is an insult to Mamata Banerjee. Why? So many people take pride in this chant. Why do you get insulted by this slogan? Because you have to appease one section for votes," Shah said. "If slogans of Jai Shri Ram are not raised here, will it be raised in Pakistan?" the BJP leader said launching the party's 'poriborton yatra' from Coochbehar."This yatra is not to change the chief minister, not to replace a minister or an MLA. This 'poribirton yatra' is to change the situation of Bengal, to stop border intrusion. We will make a state where a bird will also not be able to cross the border," he saiComparing Modi's politics of Vikas and Mamata Banerjee's politics of Vinash, Amit Shah said, "Mamata's focus is only making her nephew the next chief minister. Had Dilip Ghosh not been there, she would have announced her nephew as the next chief minister. But now she is scared.""In 2017, Mamata Banerjee had said BJP will get zero in West Bengal. But then you gave 18 seats to BJP. Now, she is looking for seats — from where she can contest," Amit Shah said, referring to Mamata's recent announcement that she would contest from Nandigram as well after Suvendu Adhikari joined the BJP.Talking about the Centre's Budget allocation to West Bengal and its future plan to convert North Bengal into a major tourist hub, Amit Shah said, "Bengal worships Devi Durga but for that you have to go to the court. Bring us to power and it will be a land of both Ram Navami and Durga Puja."The incident of Netaji's birth anniversary celebration where Mamata left the stage after she was greeted with 'Jai Shri Ram' slogans was also mentioned by Shah. "Do you want a government which fights with the Centre. But didi only fights with Modiji. At least she could not have fought on Netaji's birth anniversary celebration," Amit Shah said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-too-will-chant-jai-shri-ram-when-election-ends-amit-shah-in-bengal-101613029824226.html
11-02-2021||India||News updates from HT: Road to fighting climate change is through climate justice, says PM Modi||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Road to fighting climate change is through climate justice: PM ModiPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday said the road to fighting climate change is through climate justice and called for giving developing countries enough space to grow. Read more'They should look inward': Venkaiah Naidu on MP's question citing Sweden reportAAP MP Sushil on Thursday cited a Sweden report on Indian democracy in a question to Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad in the Rajya Sabha, following which chairman Venkaiah Naidu said, "What is the use of a Sweden report? These are all political. They should look inward." Read more Suspected smuggler shot at by BSF near Attari borderA suspected smuggler was injured when Border Security Force (BSF) personnel opened fire near the Attari-Wagah border on Thursday morning. Read more 'That's where Kohli is a little hard to understand': Sanjay Manjrekar dissects India captain's 'tactics' against EnglandDuring the press conference immediately after England beat India by 227 runs on Tuesday in Chennai, captain Virat Kohli made it clear that although England played well, to assume that England are better prepared than India on their home soil is an exaggeration. Read more Priyanka Chopra's husband Nick Jonas was very interested in reading about her 'early dating life' in UnfinishedPriyanka Chopra's husband, Nick Jonas, got 'straight to the good stuff', that is, her early dating life, while reading her recently released memoir, Unfinished. In the book, Priyanka wrote about life as a teenager in the United States, among other things. Read more Man places frozen pants on parking spots around city, pics spark laughterThe Internet is filled with posts which leave you asking “Why” and also make you giggle at the same time. This tweet involving frozen pants fits that category perfectly. Read moreFrom weightlifting to tennis and glamour, here’s a day in Sania Mirza’s lifeHer 7 million followers on Instagram can easily vouch that Sania Mirza is not only a super human on the Tennis court but also off it and the ace Indian player’s latest video on her social media handle is also proof of the same. Read more 2021 MG Hector SUV launches in India, gets new CVT gearboxRight after driving in the new ZS EV with a better battery pack and enhanced driving range, MG Motor India has now launched the updated MG Hector on February 11. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-road-to-fighting-climate-change-is-through-climate-justice-says-pm-modi-101613028002436.html
11-02-2021||India||Rajnath Singh’s full statement on ‘present situation’ in eastern Ladakh||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday issued a statement on the situation along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) and confirmed India and China’s disengagement plan for the southern and northern banks of Pangong Tso. The two sides have agreed to pull back troops from these friction areas in eastern Ladakh. The Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) will move its forces to the east of Finger 8 on the north bank and the Indian Army will move to its base near Finger 3, he told the upper house of Parliament.Singh said the decision was taken during the ninth round of corps-commander level talks heldheld on the Chinese side of the Moldo-Chushul border meeting point on January 24.Here is Rajnath Singh’s full statement||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-singh-s-full-statement-on-present-situation-in-eastern-ladakh-101613027517299.html
11-02-2021||India||‘His views relevant even today’: PM Modi pays tribute to Deendayal Upadhyaya||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday addressed workers of his Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on the 53rd death anniversary of party ideologue Pandit Deendayal Upadhyaya. Speaking at the ‘Samarpan Diwas’ programme in Upadhyaya’s memory, PM Modi said that Upadhyaya’s views are relevant even today.“Deendayal Upadhyaya ji was like the head of this vast family of ours. He continuously gave inspiration to our family. All of you have read his works and have achieved success in your lives by following his principles,” PM Modi said. He added that Upadhyay’s works feel fresh even today, further saying that the more one follows the right-wing ideologue’s works, the more points of view he comes across.“Today, Upadhyaya ji’s views are as relevant as they were during his days. In fact, they will continue to be relevant in the coming time as well,” the Prime Minister said. He added that Upadhyaya’s views will be relevant whenever there is a question on the welfare of humanity. Quoting a Sanskrit shloka, PM Modi said, “Through power, one can get only limited respect. One will get respect only if he is actually influential. However, a wise person is respected everywhere. Deendayal ji was a living example of this.”Upadhyaya, he further remarked, is also an example of how a political leader should conduct himself in social life. PM Modi further explained how several of Upadhyaya’s views are in line with various policies of the central government.Born on September 25, 1916, in Mathura, Deendayal Upadhyaya, was a leader of the Bharatiya Jan Sangh, a forerunner to what is the present BJP. Besides PM Modi, BJP national president JP Nadda was present at the ‘Samarpan Diwas’ event. Union home minister Amit Shah, meanwhile, paid his tributes to Upadhyaya in Guwahati, Assam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/his-views-relevant-even-today-pm-modi-pays-tribute-to-deendayal-upadhyaya-101613027101783.html
11-02-2021||India||India’s agreement with China on disengagement with troops: Key points||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday said India has reached an agreement with China on the disengagement of troops in Ladakh’s Pangong Tso. Here is all you need to know about the pact:• Singh said both sides will withdraw forward deployment in a phased, verified manner.• He assured Parliament that India has not lost anything even as some outstanding issues regarding deployment and patrolling remained• The two sides agreed to complete disengagement under bilateral pacts, protocols.• It has been agreed to convene the next meeting of military commanders within 48 hours of complete disengagement in the Pangong area. Also Read | China to move to east of Finger 8, no patrolling in disputed area: Rajnath Singh• The Chinese side will keep its troop presence in Pangong lake’s North Bank area to the east of Finger 8• Indian troops will be based at their permanent base at Dhan Singh Thapa Post near Finger 3.• Singh said China is aware of India’s resolve to protect its sovereignty.• He added Indian armed forces dealt with the situation in eastern Ladakh effectively and maintained their edge.• Singh maintained adequate and effective counter deployments have been made for India’s security.• He said China is expected to work with India to resolve the remaining issues.• Singh assured the House that the whole country stands together on the question of sovereignty, unity, integrity, and security.• He insisted India will not allow even an inch of its territory to be taken by anyone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-agreement-with-china-on-disengagement-with-troops-key-points-101613025974058.html
11-02-2021||India||'They should look inward': Venkaiah Naidu's snub to AAP MP on 'Sweden report'||On Thursday, information and technology minister Ravi Shankar Prasad replied to a number of questions in Parliament pertaining to social media, regulations, actions against social media etc. AAP MP Sushil Kumar Gupta posed a question to the minister in which he cited a 2020 report of a Sweden-based institution on Indian democracy."What is the use of a Sweden report? These are all political. They should look inward. All countries which are commenting on India should first look inward and then comment on India," Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu said, without allowing the question. The MP then asked another question regarding social media.The chairman's comment from Parliament comes at a time when the ministry of external affairs has strongly condemned the comments of international celebrities on the ongoing farmers' protest. Several ministers, celebrities too took to social media posting messages in support of India's unity and sovereignty. The reaction came after American pop singer Rihanna, Sweden's climate activist Greta Thunberg tweeted in support of the ongoing farmers' protest.Based on the document that Greta Thunberg posted on Twitter and primary investigation by Delhi Police, several Union ministers alleged that an international conspiracy is being planned against India and Twitter is being used as a platform.As the IT ministry has held a consultation with Twitter, Ravi Shankar Prasad on Thursday issued another warning to all social media platforms from Parliament that they can not violate India's laws and Constitution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/they-should-look-inward-venkaiah-naidu-on-mp-s-question-citing-sweden-report-101613025457858.html
11-02-2021||India||What Rajnath Singh told Parliament on India, China disengagement at Pangong Tso||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday told the Rajya Sabha that India and China have agreed to pull back troops from the northern and southern backs of Pangong Tso and said that both sides will carry out the disengagement process in a phased, coordinated and verified manner.The decision was arrived at during the ninth round of talks between military commanders. Singh said, “to ensure disengagement in friction points along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), it was our view that troops of both sides, who are now in close proximity, should vacate the forward deployments made in 2020 and return to the permanent and accepted bases.”Here are key points from Rajnath Singh’s statement in Parliament on ‘current’ Ladakh situation:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-rajnath-singh-told-parliament-on-india-china-disengagement-at-pangong-tso-101613024882078.html
11-02-2021||India||Meeting Ram Madhav gave me sense of what was to come: Former Pak envoy||Former Pakistani high commissioner to India Abdul Basit on Wednesday posted a video online about his meeting with former Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) national general secretary Ram Madhav to illustrate how Pakistan got wind of the party’s policy towards Kashmir and intent to abrogate the Constitution’s Article 370.In the seven-minute video, Basit said the “unpleasant” meeting was held just before the assembly elections in Jammu & Kashmir in 2014. He added Madhav’s tone was “unpleasant and aggressive” during the meeting at the India Foundation’s office in New Delhi.Basit said Madhav, who was also in charge of the erstwhile state, said that Pakistan should forget about Kashmir and worry about Gilgit-Baltistan and Pakistan occupied Kashmir. “He said Pakistan was wasting time and it is only a matter of time that Article 370 would be abrogated from Kashmir since it was part of the BJP’s manifesto,” Basit said.ALSO WATCH | J&K DDC poll results: Omar slams BJP; Ram Madhav says 'Centre's policy won'﻿In August 2019, Parliament passed the Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation Act, which led to the reading down of Article 370 and Article 35 A that gave the region special status and laid down conditions for domicile rules. The state was also bifurcated into two union territories.Also Read | A roadmap to reform democracy: OpinionBasit claimed Madhav gave Islamabad an insight into what was to come. He added Madhav referred to Pakistan as a terrorist state. “He kept saying that Pakistan is a terrorist state and fosters terrorism. I said it is not as simple as you think things are.” Basit said Madhav refused to listen, “...I got a clarity into the mindset of the BJP and what their policy there will be.”Basit referred to the BJP’s target of winning 44 seats in Jammu & Kashmir in 2014. He added the BJP’s stance regarding Pakistan’s engagement with the separatist Hurriyat Conference got the party support of Jammu Hindus and helped it win 25 seats in the region for the first time and to become the second-largest party in Jammu & Kashmir.Basit referred to the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, and how its Muslim wing, the Muslim Rashtriya Manch, also played a role and launched Indian Muslims in Kashmir. He added he could not meet Madhav after the BJP formed a coalition government with the People’s Democratic Party in Jammu & Kashmir. “There was no pleasantness or liking for each other ...It is not important whether I like someone or not but I have to convey my point and understand the other’s point of view,” Basit said. He added he has mentioned the meeting in his upcoming book Hostility.Madhav said the details about the meeting have been made public without his consent. “We had a long meeting but I was never aggressive. I was only putting across India’s view point with firmness. In any case, we do not expect details of such meetings to be made public without permission.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/meeting-ram-madhav-gave-me-sense-of-what-was-to-come-former-pak-envoy-101613024593598.html
11-02-2021||India||‘Another ploy’: Govt rebuts claim that letters were planted in Wilson’s laptop||Forensic scientists who examined the laptop seized from activist Rona Wilson’s residence in April 2018 did not find any evidence of any malware in the electronic device, a government official said on Thursday, rebutting the findings of an American digital forensics consulting firm that fabricated evidence was planted in the electronic evidence.Rona Wilson was arrested in June 2018 on suspicion of his alleged links with the violence that erupted in Bhima Koregaon village in Maharashtra on January 1, 2018, during the bicentennial celebrations of a British-era war commemorated by Dalits.The Washington Post had first reported findings of the US-based Arsenal Consulting that alleged that Rona Wilson’s device had been compromised in 2016 via a phishing attack which allowed the attacker to conduct surveillance and plant incriminating evidence till April 17, 2018, when electronic evidence was seized by the Pune Police.The National Investigation Agency has denied the claim, citing the report of the Indian forensic experts who did not find any such evidence.The government official cited above called the US firm’s forensic report an attempt to discredit the investigation and find faults with the evidence. The content and incidents mentioned in the letters claimed to have been planted in Rona Wilson’s electronic devices were corroborated in the charge sheet by other oral, documentary and technical evidence submitted with the charge sheet. This is also evident from the activities of Rona Wilson who visited the densely-forested area of Abhujmad in Chhattisgarh that is considered to be a base for Maoist fighters.The official said highly incriminating oral and documentary evidence has been collected which has already been submitted along with the charge sheet and a cogent case with entire evidence against the accused has been submitted before the trial court.Investigating officials said that videos were taken of all the evidence seized by the Pune Police from Wilson’s residence, which included hard disk, CDs, laptop, mobile phones, memory cards, etc. These were enumerated in a seizure memo following due procedure following which a strict “chain of custody” was maintained. The evidence was sent to Regional FSL Pune for further examination. The report did not indicate any instance of tampering with digital devices.The Pune Police and the NIA, which later took over the investigations, have submitted three charge sheets against 22 accused persons including 6 who are still on the run and none of them has been granted any relief including bail by courts though India has a highly robust judicial system and the accused persons get the best possible opportunity to represent their case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/another-ploy-govt-rebuts-claim-that-letters-were-planted-in-wilson-s-laptop-101613023127438.html
11-02-2021||India||China to move to east of Finger 8, no patrolling in disputed area: Rajnath Singh||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday told Parliament that India and China reached a consensus on disengagement of their frontline soldiers on the north and south banks of Pangong Tso, areas that have been at the centre of the current border tensions in eastern Ladakh. Singh said as part of the agreement on disengagement, the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) will move its forces to the east of Finger 8 on the north bank, and the Indian Army will move to its base near Finger 3. The minister said India and China also agreed to temporarily suspend their regular patrolling activities on the north bank. “The Chinese side will keep its troop presence in the north bank area to east of Finger 8. Reciprocally, the Indian troops will be based at their permanent base at Dhan Singh Thapa Post near Finger 3. A similar action would be taken in the south bank area by both sides,” he said. The minister said these are mutual and reciprocal steps and structures that built by both sides after April 2020 in both north and south bank areas will be removed. Also Read | India-China standoff: All you need to know about disengagement on Pangong TsoHe told Rajya Sabha that both armies agreed to pullback forces in a “phased, coordinated and verifiable manner.” He said within 48 hours of “full disengagement” in these areas, senior Indian and Chinese commanders will meet again to discuss further disengagement at other friction points. This is the first significant movement in negotiations to ease tensions in more than eight months—disengagement in Galwan valley took place in early July 2020 but it did not progress in other areas. The minister’s statement comes on the back of limited withdrawal of front-line troops by the Indian and Chinese armies from the Pangong Tso area on the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC). The development has turned the spotlight on how the broader disengagement plan will unfold in other flashpoints where rival soldiers are deployed eyeball to eyeball and where previous attempts to reduce military tensions have failed. “It has also been agreed to have a temporary moratorium on military activities by both sides in the north bank, including patrolling to the traditional areas. Patrolling will be resumed only when both sides reach an agreement in diplomatic and military talks that would be held subsequently. The implementation of this agreement has started yesterday in the north and south bank of the Pangong Lake. It will substantially restore the situation to that existing prior to commencement of the standoff last year,” he said. The Finger Area was until now the toughest part of the disengagement process. “I want to assure this House that in these talks we have not conceded anything. The House should also know that there are still some outstanding issues with regard to deployment and patrolling at some other points along the LAC in Eastern Ladakh. These will be the focus of further discussions with the Chinese side. We have agreed that both sides should achieve complete disengagement at the earliest and abide fully by the bilateral agreements and protocols. By now, the Chinese side is also fully aware of our resolve,” Singh said. The mutual pulling back of tanks and infantry combat vehicles from heights on the southern bank of Pangong Tso began on Wednesday a fortnight after military commanders of the two armies agreed on January 24 to push for an early disengagement of their frontline troops. The Chinese People’s Liberation Army’s (PLA) aggressive forward deployments in the eastern Ladakh theatre have hindered the Indian Army’s patrolling patterns in several areas including Depsang, Finger Area on the northern bank of Pangong Tso, Gogra and Kongka La. Regaining access to several areas that are now difficult to reach due to actions by the Chinese army along LAC is critical, experts said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-to-move-to-finger-8-no-patrolling-in-disputed-area-rajnath-singh-101613023093938.html
11-02-2021||India||Odisha to amend FRBM Act for additional borrowing||The Odisha government plans to amend the Odisha Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management Act, 2005 that would enable it to avail an additional 2% fiscal deficit of Gross State Domestic Product from the current level of 3.5% now.Finance department officials said the additional 2% fiscal deficit includes unconditional borrowing of 1% of GSDP and the balance 1% depending upon the implementation of four sectoral reforms, each carrying weightage of 0.25%. The decision would give an additional leeway to the state government to go for higher borrowing for meeting its rising capital.In 2016, the state had last amended the FRBM Act raising the level of fiscal deficit to 3.5% of the Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) from 3%, giving it an additional leeway to go for higher borrowing for meeting its rising Capex (capital expenditure).Odisha finance secretary AKK Meena said the state may resort to borrowing in the 2021-22 financial year. "We can borrow up to 5% fiscal deficit of the Gross State Domestic Product," he said. This additional borrowing would enable the state government to meet higher resources requirement for Covid-19 management, maintain the standards of service delivery to the public, compensate the shortfall arising out of GST implementation (GST compensation Shortfall), and maintain the level of Capital Expenditure on infrastructure projects in the State.The amendment of the FRBM Act comes at a time when the revenue growth has not been spectacular and the central devolution to the state has come down. Though the 15th Finance Commission kept devolution to states unchanged in its interim report for 2020-21, the cumulative share contracted marginally to 41% from 42% after the number of states was reduced to 28 because of the reorganisation of Jammu & Kashmir into two Union Territories.While Odisha has so far seen a shortfall of over ₹10,840 crore in the net tax and duty proceeds in 2020-21, the devolution of central taxes and duties to Odisha in the coming financial year 2021-22 will be ₹3,048.99 crore lesser than the tax devolved to the state in 2019-20.Economists said states like Odisha which despite being financially prudent over last few years would face an unprecedented situation in the post-Covid state. "We are now in a situation in which there is a high deficit, high borrowing, high expenditure, less revenue, and less growth. All states have to increase fiscal deficit level otherwise they can't fulfill their promises. The state governments in many poll-bound schemes would not be able to announce new schemes out of their own resources for the next 2-3 years," said Pratap Jena, associate professor of National Institute of Public Finance and Policy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-to-amend-frbm-act-for-additional-borrowing-101613022060924.html
11-02-2021||India||Court quashes privilege notices issued to Stalin, 17 other DMK lawmakers||The Madras high court on Wednesday quashed fresh privilege notices issued to Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) chief MK Stalin and 17 other lawmakers of the party for displaying banned gutkha sachets in the state assembly four years back. Assembly speaker P Dhanapal first issued the notices in 2017 saying they brought the prohibited items banned in the state since 2013 into the House.“When there are no clearly laid out rules and what constitutes the breach of privilege and what punishment it entails, it could not be stated that the petitioners ought to have obtained permission from the first respondent [speaker],” the court said. It added that administrative authorities must exercise their discretionary powers reasonably. “The court is concerned with the manner in which the decision has been passed. It means that the second respondent [secretary of the assembly] will be able to make the same decision again in the exercise of the discretionary power vested with it. Such a decision should not be arbitrary and inconsistent with Article 19 [freedom of speech] of the Constitution of India.”Also Read | Tamil Nadu parties united in call for single phase state electionsThe DMK lawmakers moved the court saying the fresh notices were issued to them to prevent them from participating in the assembly proceedings and raising questions on the management of the Covid-19 pandemic.Stalin said the state government could have shown a similar concern in preventing gutkha sales. “We took gutkha packages to the assembly to indicate the huge number of banned gutkha sales in Tamil Nadu,” said Stalin. “They say the sale is still going on. gutkha government’s game is going to end soon.” Tamil Nadu is due to go to the polls in April and May this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/court-quashes-privilege-notices-issued-to-stalin-17-other-dmk-lawmakers-101613022253363.html
11-02-2021||India||Election fervour in Kerala, Tamil Nadu likely to peak with PM Modi’s visit||With Prime Minister Narendra Modi and other senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) national leaders descending on election-bound Tamil Nadu and Kerala this weekend, the election fervor in the two southern states is likely to peak.Five states -- West Bengal, Assam, and Puducherry are the others -- will hold assembly elections in the next few months. Modi will arrive in Chennai on February 14 to inaugurate several infrastructure projects, including a new Metro rail stretch in the city, and the Cauvery-Gundar river-linking project. Later in the day, he will fly to Kochi to inaugurate a new Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited’s (BPCL) plant.The PM had visited Assam and West Bengal last week.Modi’s visit comes at a time when the BJP’s senior ally in the state, the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) is in some distress over the return of VK Sasikala, a close aide of late J Jayalalithaa. After serving a four-year jail term in Bengaluru in the disproportionate assets case, Sasikala came to Chennai on Tuesday following a 23-hour long roadshow, positioning herself as AIADMK general secretary-- a post she held after Jayalalithaa’s death in December 2016, till her imprisonment in February 2017.While she was in prison, her former loyalist, chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami and his deputy O Panneerselvam buried their differences, merged their factions, and expelled Sasikala from the party. Palaniswami is the chief ministerial candidate of the alliance, who reiterated that Sasikala would not be taken back into the party fold after meeting PM Modi in New Delhi last month.The PM will have a brief interaction with BJP leaders after his public programs. Besides the PM, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman is expected to be in Villupuram to attend a function organised by the party’s Mahila Morcha. Party chief JP Nadda will also visit the state in late February. The AIADMK-BJP combine is pitted against the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK)-Congress alliance which has been out of power since 2011.In Kerala’s Kochi, after inaugurating the new complex of BPCL, Modi will interact with core committee members of the state unit and discuss poll strategies, said BJP Kerala unit president K Surendran on Wednesday. The party has asked the state unit to sink its internal differences and make use of opportunities and bag the maximum seats.This time, the party’s national leaders will be campaigning extensively in Kerala despite the saffron party being a distant third in the state’s bipolar politics. Its recent performance in the local body elections, however, has given it some hope.The BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) mustered around 15% of votes in the local polls, and the party thinks it could win a few seats if it improves its vote share. The one seat it won (Nemom in Thiruvananthapuram) in the last assembly elections in 2016, was the party’s only notable poll performance in the state so far.“We have classified assembly seats according to our strength. We will expose both, Congress and CPI (M), which are allies at many places including in neighbouring Tamil Nadu. Besides their double standards, we will raise Sabarimala issue, gold smuggling and other corruption cases,” Surendran told the Hindustan Times.Also Read: Big projects for poll-bound states in budget: Kapil Sibal alleges biasMeanwhile, Congress leaders have asked former party chief Rahul Gandhi, who is also an MP from Wayanad in north Kerala, to campaign extensively in the state. During the last parliamentary election in 2019, the Congress won 15 of the 20 seats in Kerala, the party’s best performance in any state. During the campaigning then, Gandhi did not criticise the Left government too much. But Congress leaders have now asked him to go all-out against their arch-rivals in the state.Gandhi will address the concluding session of opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala’s ‘Aiswarya Kerala Yatra’ on Feb 23 in the state capital. “He will be the star campaigner in the state. Priyanka will also join him during the roadshow,” said PCC general secretary KP Anil Kumar.“Both, left and Congress, are facing an existential crisis. This time Gandhi will have to shed his gloves and go after the political rival in the state. Gandhi pitching tents in Kerala will augur well for the party. It will also help end the factional feud in the state unit,” said senior journalist and political commentator John Mary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/election-fervour-in-kerala-tamil-nadu-likely-to-peak-with-pm-modi-s-visit-101613021352362.html
11-02-2021||India||‘Disengagement plan at Pangong Tso finalised’, says Rajnath Singh on China row||India and China have reached an agreement for disengagement at southern and northern banks of Pangong Tso Lake, defence minister Rajnath Singh said in a statement in Parliament on Thursday. He said that during the ninth round of Corps Commander-level military talks, it was decided that both the sides will remove forward deployments in a phased and coordinated manner.The minister said that India has always emphasised on maintaining bilateral ties and is committed to maintaining peace and tranquility along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). Singh said both sides agree that complete disengagement under bilateral pacts and protocol should be done at the earliest.He told the Rajya Sabha that China’s People's Liberation Army (PLA) will pull back to east of Finger 8 and Indian Army will move to its permanent base near Finger 3. The commanders of both sides will hold a meeting following the completion of disengagement in the Pangong area, Singh said.The defence minister assured the House that India has not lost anything and informed there are still some outstanding issues regarding deployment and patrolling on LAC.India had rushed frontline tanks and armoured vehicles to the strategic heights held by its soldiers on the southern bank in September last year, in response to intimidating moves by the PLA.Also Read | India-China standoff: All you need to know about disengagement on Pangong TsoHis remarks come a day after the Chinese defence ministry said that both sides have begun disengaging on the southern and northern banks of Pangong Tso. Chinese defence ministry’s spokesperson Senior Colonel Wu Qian said the move was in accordance with the consensus reached by both sides during the meeting of military commanders held on the Chinese side of the Moldo-Chushul border meeting point on January 24.There was, however, no official word from the Indian side on Wednesday while people familiar with the matter told HT that both sides have started pulling back armoured elements – tanks and infantry combat vehicles – from heights on the southern bank of Pangong lake.The LAC passes through Pangong lake, parts of which are controlled by Indian and Chinese troops. Both sides also patrol the waters of the lake in special boats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/disengagement-at-pangong-tso-finalised-says-rajnath-singh-on-china-row-101613019111658.html
11-02-2021||India||India-China standoff: All you need to know about disengagement on Pangong Tso||Indian and Chinese troops have begun disengaging on the southern and northern banks of Ladakh’s Pangong Tso, China’s defence ministry announced on Wednesday. Here is what we know about the matter:• People familiar with it in India said both sides were pulling back armoured elements from heights around the frozen lake. • There was no official word from India’s defence ministry or foreign ministry on the development, which came against the backdrop of a nine-month military standoff in the Ladakh sector of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) that has taken bilateral ties to an all-time low.• Defence minister Rajnath Singh is due to make a statement on the development in Parliament on Thursday. This is in line with the convention that such key issues are first taken up in the House when it is in session.• In a statement on the Chinese defence ministry’s website, spokesperson Senior Colonel Wu Qian said,“The Chinese and Indian frontline troops at the southern and northern bank of the Pangong Tso Lake start synchronised and organised disengagement from February 10.”Also Read | Rajnath Singh to address India-China Ladakh standoff in Rajya Sabha today• It added the move is in accordance with the consensus reached by both sides at the 9th round of China-India Corps Commander Level Meeting.• The reference was to a meeting of military commanders held on the Chinese side of the Moldo-Chushul border meeting point on January 24.• Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Wang Wenbin said in a similar statement that troops from both sides had begun to “conduct simultaneous and planned disengagement” at Pangong lake in line with the consensus reached by the Chinese and Indian foreign ministers at a meeting in Moscow last September and the ninth round of commander-level talks.• Wang hoped the Indian side will work with China to meet each other halfway, strictly implement the consensus reached between the two sides and ensure the smooth implementation of the disengagement process.• Both statements gave no details of the disengagement process.• The Indian Army occupied a series of key heights to prevent the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) from grabbing territory on the southern bank of Pangong Tso in a stealthy midnight move on August 29, 2020. • The Indian side’s control of ridgeline positions on the southern bank allows it to dominate the sector and keep an eye on Chinese military activity. These positions are scattered across Rezang and Reqin passes, Gurung Hill and Magar heights, while the PLA also holds some features on the southern bank.• Last September, India rushed frontline tanks and armoured vehicles to the strategic heights held by its soldiers on the southern bank, in response to intimidating moves by the PLA.Also Read | Pullback raises hope but India set to keep close eye on China• Following the ninth meeting of the military commanders, a joint statement said the two sides had “agreed to push for an early disengagement of the frontline troops”, and to hold the 10th round of the commander-level meeting “at an early date to jointly advance de-escalation”.• LAC passes through Pangong lake, parts of which are controlled by Indian and Chinese troops. Both sides also patrol the waters of the lake in special boats.• This is the second attempt to disengage frontline troops to resolve the standoff that began last May. • Disengagement in Galwan valley took place in early July, but it didn’t progress in other areas. • India has consistently pushed for comprehensive disengagement at all friction points and restoration of the status quo ante of early April 2020.• The announcement of disengagement by the Chinese side was markedly different from the resolution of the military standoff at Doklam in 2017. • At that time, both countries issued simultaneous statements on troop withdrawals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indiachina-standoff-all-you-need-to-know-about-disengagement-on-pangong-tso-101613021113623.html
11-02-2021||India||TRS, BJP in direct contest in GHMC mayor, deputy mayor elections today||Elections for the post of mayor and deputy mayor of Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) are scheduled to be conducted on Thursday. An hour after the newly elected corporators of GHMC take oath, elections for the mayor and deputy mayor will be conducted at 12.30pm. The posts have become a matter of prestige for the ruling K Chandrashekar Rao led Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) as the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is also contesting for both the posts this time. The term of the present council of GHMC expired on February 10.What were the results of the GHMC polls?In the GHMC polls held in December 2021, TRS won 56 out of the 150 seats while the BJP won 48 seats. Asaduddin Owaisi's All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) won 44 seats while the Congress finished a distant fourth with just two seats. In the 2015 GHMC polls, the TRS had won 99 seats and also secured the mayor and deputy mayor posts unanimously. But this time, securing the positions of mayor and deputy mayor is an uphill task for the party.How are the elections for the post of mayor and deputy mayor held?A total of 193 people will vote to elect the new GHMC mayor and deputy mayor. This includes 150 corporators and 43 ex-officio members. For the election to be held, a quorum of 50% attendance is compulsory and whichever candidate secures more votes will be elected for the posts.The TRS has 32 ex-officio members (local members of Parliament and MLAs) of the GHMC and the BJP has 2 ex-officio seats.Who could be the likely winner?TRS is likely to grab both the positions as with the ex-officio members, the party’s tally would go up to 88 (56 councillors+ 32 ex-officio members). BJP’s tally would go to 50 (48 councillors+ 2 ex-officio members). AIMIM could emerge as the deciding party as it has 44 councillors and 9 ex-officio members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trs-bjp-in-direct-contest-in-ghmc-mayor-deputy-mayor-elections-today-101613018996130.html
11-02-2021||India||Evidence fabricated in Bhima Koregaon case? What prompted Rona Wilson’s plea||Activist Rona Wilson moved the Bombay high court on Wednesday seeking the quashing of criminal proceedings against him for allegedly fomenting violence in Bhima Koregaon near Pune in 2018. It came after an American digital forensics consulting company concluded that fabricated evidence was planted including in a laptop and thumb drive seized from Wilson’s residence in April 2018. Here is all you need to know about the matter:• In his petition, Wilson’s lawyer has attached a copy of a digital forensic report from Arsenal Consulting, whose contents were first reported by the Washington Post.• The firm found that malware had been installed in Wilson’s computer on June 13, 2016, after someone using the email account of Varavara Rao, who is one of the accused in the case, sent a phishing mail to Wilson.• National Investigation Agency spokesperson Jaya Roy said the digital extracts they have submitted in court along with the charge sheet were examined at Regional Forensic Science Laboratory, Pune, which shows no evidence of any malware in any laptop/device.Also Read | Bhima Koregaon case: Bombay HC rejects Gautam Navlakha’s default bail plea• The hack was technically not sophisticated and appears to be inspired by Soviet-era espionage, cyber-security experts said.• Arsenal used tools to decrypt and parse NetWire logs and Quickheal database fragments. The report claimed that the firm was able to reconstruct the events of how Wilson’s computer was compromised, which also included synchronising files between Wilson’s computer and another server.• NetWire logs are files that contain keystrokes and other information such as browsing history, saved passwords, composed emails, and editing documents.• Forensic images of digital devices along with final reports are provided to accused persons as mandated by the Code of Criminal Procedure.• Investigating officials said that videos were taken of all the evidence seized by the Pune Police from Wilson’s residence, which included hard disk, CDs, laptop, mobile phones, memory cards, etc.• These were enumerated in a seizure memo following due procedure following which a strict “chain of custody” was maintained. The evidence was sent to Regional FSL Pune for further examination. The report did not indicate any instance of tampering with the digital devices.• Wilson’s petition argued that in light of the Arsenal report, any prosecution against him or the other co-accused (15 other prominent activists, academics and lawyers) would be a “travesty of justice”.• Analysing the forensic images obtained from the Toshiba hard drive inside Wilson’s computer as well as a SanDisk Cruzer Blade thumb drive that was attached to it, the report stated that the attacker copied documents into the thumb drive on March 14, 2018, and later created a warren of dummy folders containing dummy data “so that the victim would not stumble upon them”.• The forensics report suggested the attackers deployed a commonly used strategy known as spear phishing. The attackers send an email that appears to be from a trustworthy source, convincing the target to click on attachments that deliver what is known as the exploit or the piece of code that opens a backdoor and ultimately allows for malware to be installed.• A NetWire remote access trojan was installed on Wilson’s Hewlett Packard Pavilion notebook once he clicked on what he thought was a mere Dropbox link. This allowed the attacker to conduct surveillance and plant incriminating documents, the report said.• Arsenal Consulting, a Massachusetts-based digital forensics firm, surmised that Wilson’s computer was compromised by the same attacker for 22 months between 2016 and April 17, 2018, when electronic evidence was seized by the Pune Police on suspicion of his alleged links with the violence that erupted in Bhima Koregaon village in Maharashtra on January 1, 2018, during the bicentennial celebrations of a British-era war commemorated by Dalits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/evidence-fabricated-in-bhima-koregaon-case-what-prompted-rona-wilson-s-plea-101613019793074.html
11-02-2021||India||'Work in India, bring FDI, but...': RS Prasad's message to Twitter in Parliament||Amid Centre's ongoing face-off with Twitter, IT minister Ravi Shankar Prasad on Thursday said that the double standards of social media platforms will not be allowed in India. "Be it Twitter, Facebook, LinkedIn or WhatsApp, action will be taken if these platforms are misused," the minister said replying to a host of questions in Parliament."Work in India. You have crores of followers here. We respect that. Make money but you will have to abide by Indian laws and the Constitution," the minister said. The minister's statement comes a day after the IT ministry expressed its strong displeasure over Twitter's conduct in the aftermath of Red Fort breach on January 26.In meeting with Twitter, ministry mentions Greta's toolkit, US Capitol violence"We have now flagged Twitter. Our department has engaged with Twitter. That's why I didn't want to comment on this issue outside and chose the House to raise these questions. What is the matter that when there is violence in US Capitol Hill, social media platforms stand by police investigation but when Red Fort is breached, the same platforms go against the Indian government? Red Fort is the symbol of our pride. We won't allow these double standards," the minister said.ALSO WATCH | Amid tiff with Twitter, Ravi Shankar Prasad warns social media platforms﻿"What is this? You are trending hashtags supporting massacre, genocide?" the minister said."We respect social media a lot. It has empowered common people. Social media has a big role in the Digital India programme. However, if social media is misused to spread fake news, violence then action will be taken," the minister said.Commenting on the government's commitment to free speech and individual freedom, the minister said, "This government is led by leaders who have fought for the freedom of individuals, freedom of media, independence of the judiciary." "This includes our Prime Minister, you, Rajnath Singh ji, Prakash Javadekar and also me. Our commitment to freedom of media is complete and total. But we are equally concerned about the security and sovereignty of India," Prasad said addressing chairman Venkaiah Naidu.Replying to a question on social media being used to interfere with the election process, the minister said, "We respect the election process of India. If social media platforms are misused to tamper with the election process, our election commission and the government will take stern action."On fake news on social media platforms, the minister said that the ministry of information and broadcasting has a cell to bust fake news.I would urge social media platforms to measure this unbridled exposure on your internal guidelines and take actions. You are showing revenge sex videos, porn videos in an unbridled manner," the minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wont-allow-social-media-platform-s-double-standard-rs-prasad-in-parliament-101613019202439.html
11-02-2021||India||India records 12,923 new Covid-19 cases; more than 7 million vaccinated thus far||India reported 12,923 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the preceding 24 hours as the country’s overall tally rose to 10,871,294, the Union health ministry’s dashboard showed on Thursday morning. However, in a slight departure from recent trend, the country’s new active cases witnessed a spike -1,051- as they rose marginally to 142,562 or 1.30% of total cases, as per the health ministry.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageTotal number of recoveries rose to 10,573,372 or 97.27% of the national tally as 11,764 more patients were discharged in the last 24 hours, as per latest health ministry figures. Also, in the same period, 108 fresh fatalities were reported, taking India’s Covid-19 related death toll to 155,360 or 1.43% of total cases. India’s previous single-day death count was 94, while 78 fatalities were reported before that.Follow all Covid-19 updates hereMore than 7 million people have been vaccinated thus far, the dashboard further showed, with 7,017,114 having been inoculated against the disease. India began what is the world’s largest vaccination drive against Covid-19 on January 16. Oxford University-AstraZeneca’s Covishield and Bharat Biotech International Limited’s Covaxin are being used in the vaccination drive.Also on Wednesday, the govt-run Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said that the country’s new positive cases were from 699, 185 samples tested by it on February 10. The total number of tests in India, ICMR said, currently stand at 204,023,840.COVID-19 Testing Update. For more details visit: https://t.co/FQhg5Mn8Qn @MoHFW_INDIA @DeptHealthRes #ICMRFIGHTSCOVID19 #IndiaFightsCOVID19 #CoronaUpdatesInIndia #COVID19 #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/lQywUv1LmMThese latest numbers come in a month India recorded less than 10,000 daily new Covid-19 cases twice; 8,635 cases were reported on February 2 and 9,110 infections were recorded on February 11. Maharashtra, Kerala, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu have the highest Covid-19 caseloads in the country. The top two states, Maharashtra and Kerala, also have the highest number of active cases, with the southern state topping the tally on that front. Kerala and Maharashtra have more than 64,000 and 36,000 active cases respectively, with Karnataka at third with 5,894 infections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-12-923-new-covid-19-cases-more-than-7-million-vaccinated-thus-far-101613018686142.html
11-02-2021||India||Iranian FM Zarif thanks India for Islamic Revolution anniversary greetings||Iranian Foreign Minister Javad Zarif on Thursday thanked India for extending greetings on the eve of the Islamic Revolution anniversary.Thanking India and External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar, he tweeted, "Many thanks to you my friend and the people and Government of India. I look forward to continuing to work with you to further strengthen our bilateral relations".Many thanks to you my friend and the people and Government of India. I look forward to continuing to work with you to further strengthen our bilateral relations.Iranian Revolution refers to the popular movement in Iran (1979) to overthrow a pro-western monarchy and establish an Islamic republic. As a result of the Iranian Revolution, Iran became the Islamic Republic.11 February 2020 marks the 41st anniversary of the Iranian Revolution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iranian-fm-zarif-thanks-india-for-islamic-revolution-anniversary-greetings-101613017565411.html
11-02-2021||India||Govt-Twitter standoff continues: All you need to know||Government officials on Wednesday expressed displeasure over Twitter’s partial compliance with the government’s requests to block access to over 1,100 accounts and posts allegedly spreading misinformation about the farmers’ protests against new agricultural laws. Here is all you need to know about the matter:• Twitter on Wednesday said that it complied partially with the government’s requests to block access.• It said it did not act against accounts of journalists, activists, and politicians since the directions to block them were “not consistent with Indian law”• The government expressed “disappointment” over the non-compliance during a meeting with top executives of the social media company.• Twitter’s blog gave details of its actions. It said they do not believe that the actions they have been directed to take are consistent with Indian law. Also Read | On Twitter-India row, US says committed to supporting democratic values• Twitter said in keeping with its principles of defending protected speech and freedom of expression, it has not taken any action on accounts that consist of news media entities, journalists, activists, and politicians as it would violate their fundamental right to free expression under Indian law.• The statement prompted an initial response from the ministry of electronics and information technology (Meity) on Koo, a social media website meant to rival Twitter.• It appeared to signal an escalation of a confrontation brewing for over a week.• Throughout the day, several government officials expressed dismay with Twitter’s actions. They echoed remarks from last week when the government said the company was not in a position to judge its directions and had to follow them.• Representatives from the ministry and Twitter’s global policy and safety teams met later, where the Meity “secretary expressed his deep disappointment” about Twitter’s response.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govttwitter-standoff-continues-all-you-need-to-know-101613018232947.html
11-02-2021||India||Rescue teams begin drilling operations at Uttarakhand flood site||The multi-agency rescue teams have begun a drilling operation to peep into the Tapovan tunnel where nearly 30 people were feared trapped, police said on Thursday. “We are presently at 6.5 meters,” Uttarakhand director general of police (DGP) Ashok Kumar told news agency ANI.“Drilling operation started by rescue teams at 2:00 AM today to peep into a tunnel 12 to 13 meters below,” the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) wrote on Twitter. They added that the teams through boring operation will try to see whether the slush flushing tunnel below is clear of slush or otherwise to see chances of trapped persons being rescued from there.Drilling operations started by rescue teams at 0200 AM to peep into the slush flushing tunnel 12 to 13 meters below. This is being done from the tunnel where rescue teams are presently taking out slush.#UttarakhandGlacierBurst #TapovanTunnel pic.twitter.com/OgIaHD8ILZThe rescue operations have entered the fifth day following flash floods in the Chamoli district of the state triggered by a glacier burst on Sunday. The rescue teams have so recovered 34 bodies and as many as 170 people were missing as of Wednesday night. Rescuers said that they were making steady progress as the flood waters were receding slowly and the height of the slush in NTPC Limited’s tunnel in Tapovan was shrinking. However, for families of people believed to be buried in a barrage nearby, hope was dimming.Benudhar Nayak, commandant of the Indo-Tibetan Border Police’s First Battalion said there was no chance of recovering bodies from the barrage for the time being. “The slush in the barrage is over 20 metres deep since the plant’s construction work was ongoing... The rescuers will themselves sink. Even if they do enter the slush, they won’t be able to recover bodies,” he said.Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat, condoled the death of the flood victims. “I pray to God to provide patience to these brave sons and all the dead souls who lost their lives in this disaster and the bereaved families. The government stands with the relatives of the dead in this sad hour. ॐ Peace Peace Peace!,” he wrote on Twitter in Hindi.He also paid tribute to two policemen who lost their lives during the calamity. “In the natural disaster in Chamoli, we have lost two brave soldiers of our Uttarakhand Police. The Chief Constable Mr. Manoj Choudhary and the constable Mr. Balveer Singh Gadia ji pay their respects to the dedication and passion,” Rawat tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rescue-teams-begin-drilling-operations-at-uttarakhand-flood-site-101613017547349.html
11-02-2021||India||Rajnath Singh to address India-China Ladakh standoff in Rajya Sabha today||Union defence minister Rajnath Singh will make a statement in the Rajya Sabha today about the situation in Eastern Ladakh, where India is engaged in a standoff with China. This was announced by the defence minister’s office on Wednesday.“Raksha Mantri Shri @rajnathsingh will make a statement in Rajya Sabha tomorrow regarding ‘Present Situation in Eastern Ladakh,” Singh’s office tweeted.The announcement came after a demand was made by Congress and other Opposition parties.Speaking in the Lok Sabha, Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury highlighted the recent statement made by Union minister VK Singh on the LAC standoff. He had said that Singh’s statement will give China a chance to tarnish India’s image at global level.Also Read | Joe Biden in call with China’s Xi Jinping raises human rights, trade“Union minister VK Singh has made a statement which has been widely published in the newspapers about LAC transgressions. And China has picked that up; it will give our neighbour a chance to tarnish our image,” Chowdhury said.“I request the defence minister to throw some light on the latest situation on the LAC and on the minister’s statement,” he added.This comes after the Chinese and Indian border troops on the southern and northern shores of Pangong Lake began disengagement on Wednesday as per the consensus reached during the ninth round of military commander-level talks, according to China’s Ministry of National Defence.The Chinese and Indian border troops on the southern and northern shores of Pangong Lake began disengagement as planned on Wednesday according to the consensus reached during the ninth round of military commander-level talks, reported Global Times, citing the defence ministry.India and China had agreed to push for an early disengagement of the frontline troops in eastern Ladakh during the China-India Corps Commander Level meeting held on the Chinese side of the Moldo-Chushul border meeting point on January 24 to address the ongoing military standoff.The two countries have been engaged in a standoff along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) since April-May last year. While China began amassing massive military strength along the LAC, India responded with a befitting build-up.The Chinese have been asking India to withdraw troops and tanks first from the southern bank but India has been asking for disengagement from all the friction points.(With Agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-to-address-india-china-ladakh-standoff-in-rajya-sabha-today-101613016072923.html
11-02-2021||India||Quick call helps police rescue woman from abductors near Hyderabad||A 19-year-old student was rescued near Hyderabad on Wednesday based on her mobile phone location as she managed to call her parents, who immediately alerted police, in the nick of time when four men bundled her into a van and later attempted to rape her. The abductors thrashed the women when they noticed the police had closed in on them after they had dragged her into some bushes.Deputy police commissioner Rakshita Murthy said the student was returning from her college and took an auto-rickshaw thinking it was safe to travel in as an old woman and a girl shared it. “But the two co-passengers got down... After some time, two other men got into the vehicle. When the auto-rickshaw did not stop...where she [the student] was supposed to get down and was going at a high speed, she panicked.” Also Read | CM Jagan Reddy’s sister Sharmila preps to launch new regional party in TelanganaThe auto stopped near a village, where another man was waiting in the van. The four men then bundled her into the van. The student managed to call her parents, who immediately dialled police helpline number 100 to pass on the information. Murthy said they immediately alerted the local police, who started tracking the van based on the signals from her mobile phone. “Meanwhile, they [abductors] stopped...and dragged her into nearby bushes. They tore her clothes and attempted to rape her, but when they noticed the movement of police vans in the area, they beat her up with sticks and fled the spot.” Murthy said the student was semi-conscious when they found her in the bushes and immediately shifted her to a hospital even as the four managed to escape. “We have formed 10 special teams to apprehend the accused. We have filed an abduction and attempt to rape and murder case under relevant sections of IPC [the Indian Penal Code]. The investigation is on,” Murthy said. Murthy added the woman is safe but traumatised. “She [has] sustained injuries...”State minister Satyavathi Rathod inquired about the incident and ordered immediate action. She called up women and child welfare commissioner Divya Devarajan and asked her to extend all possible help to the 19-year-old.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/quick-call-helps-police-rescue-woman-from-abductors-near-hyderabad-101613015952643.html
11-02-2021||India||Railways rolls out first AC 3-tier economy class coach: 10 points||Indian Railways rolled out its first air conditioned three-tier economy class coach on Wednesday. The railway ministry said that the coaches will be economical as they will be priced between the current AC three-tier and non-AC sleeper class. “This new 3-tier air conditioned economy class coach is a symbol of aspirational India bringing AC travel to a larger number of people and enhancing the capacity of our express trains. Undoubtedly, now every rail journey will become a journey of pleasant memories," the statement released by the railway ministry said.Here’s everything you need to know about the first air conditioned three- tier economy class coach:1. The coach was rolled out from rail coach factory (RCF) Kapurthala to research, design and standards organisation (RDSO) Lucknow for the upcoming trial.2. The coach has been conceived by RCF who started work on the design in October 2020. RCF plans to produce 248 such coaches during the current and next fiscal.Also Watch | Train stunt video on Mumbai local surfaces; Railways issues warning3. The design of the coach includes high voltage electric switchgear below the frame and redesigning the AC ducting to provide individual vents for each berth. The interior of the coach has luminescent aisle markers, illuminated berth indicators with night lights and luminescent berth numbers.4. The coach also has an improved and modular design of seats and berths, foldable snack tables in both longitudinal and transverse bays, injury free spaces and holders for water bottles, mobile phones and magazines.5. Individual reading lights and mobile charging points are provided for each berth in addition to the standard sockets.Read more: Kisan special trains from Agartala to Howrah, Sealdah from today6. Additional berths have been provided in the coach as the number of berths in the new coach has been increased from 72 to 83.7. Each coach is also provided with a wider toilet entry door and an additional disabled friendly toilet entry door.8. For accessing the middle and upper berths, a new ergonomically improved design of ladder has been provided. There is also more headroom in the middle and upper berths.9. Public address and passenger information systems have been installed as part of passenger facilities.10. The fire safety has also been improved by ensuring compliance to the world benchmark of EN45545-2 HL3 for materials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-rolls-out-first-ac-3-tier-economy-class-coach-10-points-101613015175920.html
11-02-2021||India||Koo's Chinese investor will be exiting fully, says app co-founder||As made-in-India Koo has gained considerable traction in the last few days as ministers are moving on to the desi microblogging platform, the app is on its way to get rid of its Chinese investor, Koo co-founder Aprameya Radhakrishna has tweeted as social media users raised questions over the app's Chinese connection. Chinese investor Shunwei Capital is a small stakeholder of the company at present, and its stakes are being bought by other companies, Aprameya confirmed.Koo is an India registered company with Indian founders. Raised earlier capital 2.5 years ago. Latest funds for Bombinate Technologies is led by a truly Indian investor 3one4 capital. Shunwei (single digit shareholder) which had invested in our Vokal journey will be exiting fullyWhat is Koo? Which ministers have already joined this made-in-India app?"Koo is an India registered company with Indian founders. Raised earlier capital 2.5 years ago. Latest funds for Bombinate Technologies is led by a truly Indian investor 3one4 capital. Shunwei (single-digit shareholder) which had invested in our Vokal journey will be exiting fully," he tweeted.We have got more love than we expected. Our systems are facing more load than ever. Thank you for placing your trust in us. Our team is working on overdrive to fix it. We request your patience and support through this time. Let's do this together!As India and San Francisco-headquartered Twitter is engaged in a face-off over Twitter's "inaction" to take action against account "inciting genocide", Koo has got a shot in the arm as several ministers having huge Twitter following have opened accounts on Koo as well. Some government departments, including the ministry of electronics and information technology, opened their accounts on Koo. In fact, the accounts are quite active as the Meity published its initial reaction to Twitter's blog post on Koo.In this backdrop, a Chinese investor on board can sully the image of the homegrown app. But that has been already taken care of as Koo has recently raised about ₹30 crore fund from a clutch of investors, including 3one4Capital, which is backed by former Infosys CFO Mohandas Pai.The new app saw a huge load in the past few days in what is being called as 'Koo coup'. "We have got more love than we expected. Our systems are facing more load than ever. Thank you for placing your trust in us. Our team is working on overdrive to fix it. We request your patience and support through this time," Aprameya tweeted.Koo was founded in March 2020 by Aprameya and Mayank Bidawatka. It was one of the winners of Aatmanirbhar App challenge 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/koos-chinese-investor-will-be-exiting-fully-says-app-cofounder-101613014367500.html
11-02-2021||India||On Twitter-India row, US says committed to supporting democratic values||A day after the government held a meeting Twitter officials over its request to block multiple handles that were spreading ‘misinformation’ about the farmers’ stir on the microblogging site, the United States on Wednesday said it is committed to backing democratic values across the world."What I would say generally, is that around the world, we are committed to supporting democratic values including freedom of expression. I think when it comes to Twitter's policies we would have to refer you to Twitter itself," US Department of State spokesperson Ned Price was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Also Read: In meeting with Twitter, ministry mentions Greta's toolkit, US Capitol violenceThe remarks come in the backdrop of the tussle between the government and Twitter over blocking of over 250 accounts. The government is believed to have handed over a list of 1,300 URLs (for accounts as well as posts) in its two orders following the violence in the national capital during the farmers’ tractor rally on Republic Day.On Wednesday, Twitter published a blog post explaining its move to not block some of the handles. The social media firm said, “...we do not believe that the actions we have been directed to take are consistent with Indian law,” adding, that keeping with their “principles of defending protected speech and freedom of expression” they have not taken any action on accounts that consist of news media entities, journalists, activists, and politicians. “To do so, we believe, would violate their fundamental right to free expression under Indian law,” the blog read.Soon after the blog was published, the ministry of information and technology took to domestic social media platform Koo, which is becoming popular by the day, to express its disappointment over the “unusual” blog as it came hours before the two partes were to meet over the issue.Later in the day, representatives of the ministry and Twitter’s global policy and safety teams met where the Meity “secretary expressed his deep disappointment” about Twitter’s response. “In India, its Constitution and laws are supreme. It is expected that responsible entities not only reaffirm but remain committed to compliance to the law of land,” the ministry said in a statement after the meeting.Twitter said that it was seeking legal option. “We will continue to advocate for the right of free expression on behalf of the people we serve. We are exploring options under Indian law — both for Twitter and for the accounts that have been impacted,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-twitter-govt-row-in-india-us-says-committed-to-supporting-democratic-values-101613014092866.html
11-02-2021||India||Will be seen at many places, I am free now: Ghulam Nabi Azad||Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad, who will soon retire as Rajya Sabha Member, on Wednesday said people will see him at many places as he is 'free now' and has no wish to be an MP, Minister or hold any position in the party.Azad also said he has no wish to hold any position in the party and is totally satisfied with his work as a politician adding that he will continue to serve the public till he is alive."I was president of state youth Congress of Jammu and Kashmir in 1975. I worked on many positions in the party. I worked with many Prime Ministers. I consider myself fortunate that I got to work for the nation. I am happy that was able to perform my duties honestly. I got the opportunity to understand the world and the country," Azad told ANI."I am totally satisfied with my work as a politician. I believe that I will continue to serve the public till I am alive," he added.When asked about the praises and greeting he received in Parliament yesterday, Azad said, "We understand some people superficially while others in-depth. Those who understood me in-depth and saw my work over the years became emotional yesterday. I am thankful to everyone. I would also thank people who messaged me, called me and tweeted for me.""I am thankful to PM, President and colleagues of the various parties who showered their praise on me and with whom I got the opportunity to work. I am thankful to all for their wishes," he added.Commenting upon his future endeavour, the Congress leader said, "You will see me at many places. I am free now. I have no wish to be MP, Minister or hold any position in the party. I have done enough work."When asked about the future prospects of the Congress party and party president, Azad said, "I am okay with whatever party choose. My fight is for how the party will be strengthened, my fight is not against any individual or against anyone."On Tuesday, Rajya Sabha witnessed emotional scenes as Prime Minister Narendra Modi recalled the contribution of Ghulam Nabi Azad to the country, the House, and also his party.An emotional Prime Minister Modi bid adieu to Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad, who is retiring from the House and recalled his long association with the senior leader.Lauding the senior Congress leader's contribution to the causes dear to him, the Prime Minister said, "The person who will replace Ghulam Nabi ji (as Leader of Opposition) will have difficulty matching his work because he was not only concerned about his party but also about the country and the House."Almost teary-eyed, the Prime Minister recalled an incident where Azad's personal intervention led to the return of survivors and corpses of Gujarat residents who had faced a terrorist attack in Jammu and Kashmir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-be-seen-at-many-places-i-am-free-now-ghulam-nabi-azad-101613012336467.html
11-02-2021||India||News updates from HT: Key Delhi borders remain closed due to farmers' protests and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Farmers’ protest: As key Delhi borders remain shut, traffic jams expectedGhazipur, Tikri and Singhu borders remained closed on Thursday morning as farmers continued their agitation demanding the withdrawal of the three controversial farm laws. Motorists will have to face heavy traffic jams in parts of the Capital due to diversion of vehicles on some routes. Read moreDelhi: Increase in pollution, temperature predicted in the next few daysThe pollution levels in the national capital remained in the "poor" category on Thursday, with the hourly average air quality index (AQI) at 7am recording 293. Read moreIndia’s market capitalisation gains most after Hong Kong in ’21India’s equities markets gained the most since January after Hong Kong, among the world’s top 10 markets, highlighting sustained bullish investor sentiment especially after the recent Union budget. Read moreUS pharmacies to offer Covid-19 vaccines from today. All you need to knowWith the Biden administration targeting 150 million shots injected within its first 100 days of office, pharmacies in the United States will begin to offer Covid-19 vaccines from February 11 under the federal retail pharmacy program. Read more‘I didn't feel he was ready for the fight’: Laxman expects ‘more commitment’ from Indian batsman in next England TestFormer Indian batsman VVS Laxman expects both Indian vice-captain Ajinkya Rahane and opener Rohit Sharma and to show ‘more commitment’ in the upcoming second Test match against England. Read moreSushmita Sen shares cryptic post on men and women, fans wonder if Rohman Shawl and she have splitSushmita Sen had her fans worried on Wednesday as she shared a cryptic note on Instagram. Some wondered if her boyfriend Rohman Shawl and she had ended their relationship. Read morePromise Day 2021: Best romantic WhatsApp messages, GIFs, quotes, Facebook statusThe Valentine Week has got lovers across the globe on their toes but it is Promise Day on February 11 which is annually celebrated not only by couples but also friends. From teenagers to adults, everyone can be seen making commitments of long lasting relationships or promises that are never meant to be broken. Read moreMan’s customised mask prank video gets mixed reactions on TwitterA video of a man pranking people while wearing a customised mask has created quite a stir on Twitter. From sparking laughter to irritation, the clip has prompted people to share mixed reactions. Read moreWhat's behind Kuldeep's selection struggle? Are teams complacent in home Tests?Hindustan Times' Senior Associate Editor, Rasesh Mandani poses two cricket questions of your interest, every week. In this video he explores the reasons why mystery spinner Kuldeep Yadav, once the toast of Indian cricket, can't break into playing eleven anymore. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-key-delhi-borders-remain-closed-due-to-farmers-protests-101613011562104.html
11-02-2021||India||Maoist attack on cops: Explosive, gelatin sticks recovered from Jharkhand jungle||The National Investigation Agency (NIA), during searches in the dense forest of Korangburu hillock at Jilingkel in Khunti district in Jharkhand on Wednesday, has recovered a high grade explosive, 100 metres of a detonating cord, cordtex wire, and 126 gelatin sticks in its probe related to attack on a police party by Maoists in 2019. Wednesday’s seizure was made at the instance of one of the arrest cadre of CPI (Maoist), Naina alias Birsa Munda. On June 14, 2019, a police party was attacked by the cadres of CPI (Maoist) at Kukru Haat in Saraikela-Kherswan district, in which five police personnel were killed and their arms and ammunitions were looted. Also Read | Evidence planted, says activist Rona Wilson after forensic firm’s analysisJharkhand Police had arrested 11 accused and filed two charge sheets against them. NIA re-registered the case and arrested five more persons. “During the examination of accused Naina, it was revealed that explosives procured by the cadres of CPI(Maoist) are hidden at the Korangburu hillock, in Jilingkel, District Khunti. An NIA team, with the help of local police and SSB (Sashastra Seema Bal), conducted searches during the early hours on Wednesday and recovered cordtex wire and 126 gelatin sticks. The explosives were planned to be used against the security forces by CPI (Maoist),” said NIA spokesperson Jaya Roy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maoist-attack-on-cops-explosive-gelatin-sticks-recovered-from-jharkhand-jungle-101613012533800.html
11-02-2021||India||PM says govt ready for talks, farmers announce rail roko agitation: Key points||As farmers continue to protest against the Centre's agricultural laws for over 75 days, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday reiterated that the government was ready to discuss the issue. Farm union leaders, under the umbrella body Samuykta Kisan Morcha (SKM), said that they were still protesting the central leadership failed to offer any alternative to the three farm laws enacted in September last year.Follow latest updates farmers protest hereThe two sides have held 11 meetings so far to end the impasse over the legislation but the talks have remained largely inconclusive as the protesting farmers are bent on their demand of a complete rollback of the three contentious laws and legal guarantee for Minimum Support Price (MSP) while the government has ruled out the repeal of laws but has offered to make amendments.Here’s a look at the latest on farm stir*Farmers have decided to intensify their demonstration against the agricultural laws and have called for a “rail roko” programme on February 18. On February 14, SKM will also hold a candle march as a tribute to the soldiers who lost their lives in the Pulwama attack in 2019. “Rail stop programs will be held on February 18... across the country,” farmer leader Darshan Pal said.*In a video message cited by news agency PTI, SKM leader Darshan Pal claimed it is "absolutely clear" that the new legislation will do away with government mandis (wholesale markets) and farmers will be left at the mercy of private mandis where big corporates will sell and buy will have monopoly.*Following PM Modi’s remark in the Rajya Sabha that a new breed of people has emerged in the country who cannot live without an agitation, Pal said, the Prime Minister termed those protesting against the farm laws as 'andolanjivis'. "The truth is that we are struggling on genuine issues of farmers for the past six months and have not raised any issue or demand beyond it," he was quoted as saying.*As the farmers’ continue to camp at Delhi borders, key routes have remained closed for nearly two and a half months leading to traffic disruption in the national capital. Gazipur border is closed both carriage way Traffic going Ghaziabad through Murga mandi and Gazipur R/A,road no. 56, Vikas marg, Aanand Vihar IP extention, NH 24,” the Delhi Traffic Police said in a tweet. “Tikri, Dhansa and Jharoda Border is closed for traffic both carriage way,” they added.*Meanwhile, the tussle between the government and Twitter intensified over the latter’s delay in taking prompt action against accounts and hashtags spreading misinformation and provocative content around the farmers' stir. The IT ministry on Wednesday made it clear that the company must comply with the country's laws irrespective of the platform's own rules.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-says-govt-ready-for-talks-farmers-announce-rail-roko-agitation-key-points-101613011965584.html
11-02-2021||India||Artfully crafted performance: Tharoor on PM's emotional farewell to Azad||Congress leader Shashi Tharoor Wednesday termed Prime Minister Narendra Modi's emotional farewell speech for Leader of Opposition Ghulam Nabi Azad an "artfully crafted performance".The Prime Minister had turned emotional several times in Rajya Sabha on Tuesday while recalling his close association with Congress leader Azad, whose term in the House ended.Participating in a discussion on former Vice President Hamid Ansari's book "By Many a Happy Accident: Recollections of a Life", Tharoor said, "It (the farewell speech by the PM) was a very artfully crafted performance.""It was partly in response to Tikait's tears that he decided he also has tears," Tharoor said, referring to farmer leader Rakesh Tikait who broke into tears recently while talking about the ongoing farmers' protests at the Ghazipur border.Reminiscing about their long association, Modi said that as chief ministers of Jammu and Kashmir and Gujarat, both of them kept in touch with each other.Sharing details of their communication during a terror attack on some Gujarati pilgrims in Jammu and Kashmir, Modi said Azad was the first one to call him about the incident.With tears rolling down his cheeks, Modi said Azad cried on the call while informing him about the horrific attack."Azad was the first person to call me. During that call he could not stop crying," the prime minister said in a choked voice as tears rolled down from his eyes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/artfully-crafted-performance-tharoor-on-pm-s-emotional-farewell-to-azad-101613011717481.html
11-02-2021||India||Dense fog over Punjab and east UP; snowfall reported in J&K||Dense to very dense fog is observed in many pockets over Punjab and over East Uttar Pradesh according to India Meteorological Department (IMD).Moderate to dense fog was observed in some pockets over Haryana, Saurashtra & Kutch and north Rajasthan and shallow to moderate fog observed over Delhi and West Utter Pradesh.Amritsar, Patiala, Gorakhpur recorded visibility of less than 25 m, Lucknow 50 m, Ganganagar, Hisar, Bahraich, Varanasi (Babatpur), Nalia 200 m and Delhi Safdarjung, Delhi Palam, Bareilly, Sultanpur, Purnea and Bangalore Hindustan Airport 500 m each.Also Read | Scientists suggest early Indian monsoon forecasts could benefit farmersThe lowest minimum temperature over plains of northwest India recorded on Wednesday was 6.5 degrees C recorded at Sikar (Rajasthan). No major change is likely in temperatures over NW India in the next 3-4 days according to IMD. There will be largely dry weather over the region.Rain and snowfall occurred at several places over Jammu & Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan and Muzaffarabad and Himachal Pradesh on Tuesday and Wednesday. This was due to a Western Disturbance which was impacting the western Himalayas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dense-fog-over-punjab-and-east-up-snowfall-reported-in-jk-101613011332739.html
11-02-2021||India||In meeting with Twitter, ministry mentions Greta's toolkit, US Capitol violence||After Twitter on Wednesday issued a blog clarifying why it did not take action against certain handles, prompting the ministry's reaction of "strong displeasure", both sides communicated through a virtual meeting in which the ministry of electronics and IT referred to the toolkit that was shared by Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg. The secretary of the ministry also referred to Twitter's action in the wake of US Capitol violence and said in comparison with that, the microblogging platform's action after Republic Day violence was inadequate.> Monique Meche, vice president, Global Public Policy, Jim Baker, deputy general counsel and vice president (legal) represented Twitter at the meeting. Mahima Kaul who was Twitter's India public policy director resigned a few days ago. The Twitter delegation met the secretary of the ministry Ajay Sawhney virtually.> The meeting was sought by Twitter after the ministry warned of penal action against Twitter for not dragging its feet to act against Twitter handles which the ministry said were using hashtags related to "farmer genocide".> Twitter in its blog post said it took action against over 500 accounts in India after being persuaded by the ministry. But it did not take action against handles of political entities, journalists, politicians and activists because that would violate 'freedom of speech', Twitter said.> IT secretary told Twitter representatives that India has a robust mechanism for protection of freedom of speech and expression. But freedom of expression is not absolute and it is subject to reasonable restrictions as mentioned in Article 19 (2) of the Constitution of India. "Various judgments of the Supreme Court have also upheld this from time to time," the ministry said in its statement issued late on Wednesday.> The secretary also told Twitter that it is free to formulate its own rules in India, as any other business entity does, but Indian laws which are enacted by Parliament must be followed irrespective of Twitter’s own rules.> The hashtag of 'farmer genocide' was an incendiary and baseless hashtag, the secretary said and made it clear that the ministry was not pleased with Twitter's "unfortunate" decision of not removing content pertaining to 'farmer genocide' from its platform.> Twitter's action after Capitol Hill violence in the US was more stringent than what it did after Republic Day violence. The ministry expressed its disappointment over this differential treatment.> Twitter was told that it was not siding with 'freedom of expression' but was encouraging those who seek to abuse the freedom to provoke disturbance to public order.> The toolkit shared by Greta Thunberg was also mentioned to Twitter. The ministry told Twitter that the toolkit proved that a strong social media campaign was being planned outside India and Twitter was one of its platforms for mobilisation. It was unacceptable, the ministry said.> The ministry also questioned how Twitter officially allows fake, unverified, anonymous and automated bot accounts to be operated on its platform.Twitter leadership affirmed their commitment towards following Indian laws and rules. They also expressed their continuing commitment towards building their services in India. They have also requested for better engagement between Government of India and Twitter’s global team.The toolkit is being investigated by the Delhi Police as it said a copycat execution of the plan mentioned in the toolkit took place in Delhi at farmers' protest. A toolkit is a social media document which explains an issue and action plans. Greta Thunberg tweeted it while she extended her support to the ongoing farmers' protest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-meeting-with-twitter-ministry-mentions-greta-s-toolkit-us-capitol-violence-101613008794798.html
11-02-2021||India||Kisan special trains from Agartala to Howrah, Sealdah from today||The North East frontier railway (NFR) will be running Kisan special trains from Agartala to Howrah and Sealdah from Thursday. The Kisan special train will leave from Agartala at 1915 hours once a week on Thursday and will reach Sealdah on Saturday. The statement issued by Subhanan Chanda, chief PRO North East frontier railway said that the railways has started running these Kisan special train services to transport perishables and agricultural products, including milk, meat and fish. “This multi-commodity, multi-consignor/consignee, multi-loading/unloading transportation product is aimed at providing a wider market to our Kisans,” the statement said.Here’s everything you need to know about the Kisan special trains from Agartala to Howrah and Sealdah:1. The train will have stoppages at Dharmanagar, Badarpur, Lumding, Guwahati, Kamakhya, Goalpara, New Bongaigaon, New Alipurduar, New Coochbehar, New Jalpaiguri, Malda Town, Khaltipur, Bardhaman and Bandel for loading/unloading.2. Kisan special trains will run on time-tabled paths. The punctuality of these trains will be strictly monitored in order to avoid any en-route detentions and delays.3. Commodities which may be transported via Kisan rail include tea, rubber, turmeric, black pepper, mustard, soybean, betel nut, oranges, pineapple, ginger, kiwi, passion fruit, chillies (green), large cardamom and fruits and vegetables.4. A subsidy of 50 per cent is being granted on the transportation of fruits and vegetables via Kisan trains.5. The primary objective of these trains is to increase income of the farm sector by connecting production centres to markets and consumption centres.6. The first Kisan rail was run between Devlali and Danapur in August last year; the second was run from Anantapur in Andhra Pradesh to New Delhi and the third was from KSR Bengaluru to Hazrat Nizzamuddin station in New Delhi. A weekly link Kisan rail is also operated between Sangola, Scunderabad and Solapur. Orange Kisan rail is operated between Nagpur and Delhi. On February 8, southern central railways also started the first Kisan rail from Telangana state from Warangal station in Secunderabad division to Barasat station of Sealdah division in West Bengal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kisan-special-trains-from-agartala-to-howrah-sealdah-from-today-101613008100094.html
11-02-2021||India||No change in policy on Jammu and Kashmir, says US||The United States on Wednesday said that there is no change in its policy on Jammu and Kashmir."I want to be very clear there has been no change in US policy in the region," State Department Spokesperson Ned Price told reporters in view of a tweet from the South and Central Asia Bureau of the State Department which welcomed the resumption of 4G mobile internet in Jammu and Kashmir."We welcome the resumption of 4G mobile internet in India's Jammu & Kashmir. This marks an important step for local residents and we look forward to continued political & economic progress to restore normalcy in J&K,” tweeted the South and Central Asia Bureau of the State Department.High-speed mobile internet was restored on February 5 in the entire union territory of Jammu and Kashmir, exactly one and a half years after it was snapped in August 2019 when the Centre had abrogated the special status of the erstwhile state.According to a 2019 Congressional Research Service report of August 2019, a longstanding goal of US policy in South Asia has been to prevent India-Pakistan conflict from escalating to interstate war. This meant the United States has sought to avoid actions that overtly favoured either party. Over the past decade, however, Washington has grown closer to India while relations with Pakistan continue to be viewed as clouded by mistrust, CRS report said.On a question related to Twitter shutting down some accounts in India, Price said, "Well, I think what I would say generally is that around the world – and this goes back to what I was saying before – we are committed to supporting democratic values, including freedom of expression. I think when it comes to Twitter's policies, we'd have to refer you to Twitter itself."Responding to a similar question, White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki told reporters at her daily news conference, "Of course, we always have concerns about crackdowns on freedom of speech, freedom of expression happening around the world and when it doesn't allow people to communicate and peacefully protest."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-change-in-policy-on-jammu-and-kashmir-says-us-101613007056844.html
11-02-2021||India||Farmers still agitating because Modi govt has failed to give 'alternative': SKM||Farmers are still agitating because ministers of the Modi government have failed to present any "alternative" to the three new agri laws, the Samuykta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of 41 farmer unions, said on Wednesday.The SKM is leading the protest against the three central farm laws at several border points of Delhi.On Prime Minister Narendra Modi's address in Lok Sabha, SKM leader Darshan Pal said that union leaders have only been raising the "genuine" issues of the farmers."The agitation has been continuing because the ministers of the Modi government have not been able to come up with any solid alternative to the new laws or the MSP (minimum support price), despite 11 rounds of talks," Pal said in a video message.It is "absolutely clear" that the new laws will finish government mandis (wholesale markets) and private mandis where big corporates will sell and buy will have monopoly, he claimed."What is the problem and your (prime minister's) objection if both the mandis remain," Pal said referring to one of the new farm laws of the Centre.He said that the prime minister termed those protesting against the farm laws as 'andolanjivis' (professional protesters), and that they raised different issues and "misguided" the farmers."The truth is thate we are struggling on genuine issues of farmers for the past six months and have not raised any issue or demand beyond it," said the SKM leader.Pal said that the farmers and people of the country should not be taken in by the prime minister's speech in Lok Sabha and continue to strengthen the agitation against farm laws."I want to say to the farmers and the people to understand what Modi said in Parliament and not be taken in by his statements about the leaders of the farmers agitation," he said.Prime Minister Modi said in the Lok Sabha that the government and Parliament have great respect for farmers who are voicing their views on the three farm bills, and made it clear that those who want to continue with the old agriculture marketing system can continue doing so.Replying in Lok Sabha to the discussion on the motion of thanks to the President's address to the joint sitting of Parliament, Modi staunchly defended the three contentious farms laws and attacked the opposition for "misleading" farmers.Seeking to allay apprehensions on the farm laws, Modi said neither any agriculture 'mandi' (market) has shut down after the three laws were enacted nor has the MSP stopped, rather the MSP has only increased which no one can deny.The prime minister also said the government has offered to discuss clause by clause of the three farm laws and if there are any shortcomings it was ready to make changes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-still-agitating-because-modi-govt-has-failed-to-give-alternative-skm-101613005229865.html
11-02-2021||India||No death linked to Covid-19 vaccine in the country: Health ministry||India’s death rate among individuals who received the Covid-19 vaccine is one of the lowest in the world. With 23 deaths reported in persons post immunisation till date, the percentage of deaths of the total vaccinations is as low as 0.0003%, shows government data released on Wednesday.Of the 23 deaths, nine persons died in the hospital while 14 deaths are recorded outside the hospital. The government has maintained that none of the deaths have been casually linked to Covid-19 vaccination, highlighting the fact that both the vaccines approved for use in India are supremely safe. “There is no doubt about it that both the vaccines are very safe. The adverse reactions are as low as one in 14, which is miniscule in comparison,” said Dr VK Paul, member (health), Niti Aayog.As per the Union health ministry data, 6.8 million healthcare and frontline workers have been vaccinated till today with about 200,000 beneficiaries vaccinated on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-death-linked-to-covid-19-vaccine-in-the-country-health-ministry-101613005750849.html
11-02-2021||India||SC lets off rape accused after he agrees to marry complainant in 6 months||A man from Punjab on Wednesday earned freedom from the Supreme Court on condition that he would marry the woman, the complainant in a case against him , within six months. If he breaks his promise to marry the woman, who is now in Australia, he would be sent to jail, the top court warned.“Remember, we will send you to jail if we find that your proposal to marry her is just a ploy to get rid of the criminal case against you,” an SC bench, headed by CJI SA Bobde, told the lawyer who represented the man while staying his arrest.The bench, which also included justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, recorded the lawyer’s statement that the man’s parents had also signed an agreement promising to get their son married to the woman, and pack him off to Australia.In this case, the man faced charges of rape and cheating on a complaint by the woman. She alleged that he had a relationship with her on the pretext of marriage. The man and the woman met each other in Australia in 2016 where both were studying. While the woman belonged to a scheduled caste, the man was a Jat Sikh, an upper caste. According to the FIR lodged by the woman in Amritsar, the man convinced her to enter a relationship with him, promising that he would persuade his parents to agree to their marriage . In 2018, the man returned to Amritsar. The woman used to travel to India to meet him and their relationship continued until July 2019 when the man told her that his parents were against their marriage.This prompted the woman to file a complaint with the NRI Wing of Punjab Police, which conducted a preliminary investigation and finally lodged an FIR invoking charges of rape and cheating under the IPC.Claiming the relationship was consensual, the man sought protection from arrest but the Punjab and Haryana high court denied him relief, taking note of serious allegations by the complainant that he had threatened her he would publish photographs of her on social media if she did not withdraw the FIR.On Wednesday, advocate Shakti Paul Sharma, appearing for the man, presented before the bench a compromise deed, which stated that the two would be married within six months and that the man would travel to Australia to live with the complainant.The bench initially said it would grant bail only after he marries the woman. The lawyer, however, cited restrictions on flights from Australia to India due to Covid-19. The court then stayed the arrest of the man and also made the woman a party to the matter. The case will be heard next after four weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-lets-off-rape-accused-after-he-agrees-to-marry-complainant-in-6-months-101613005573547.html
11-02-2021||India||In Lok Sabha, Opposition targets govt for ‘tepid budget’||Initiating the discussion on the Budget for fiscal 2021-22, Congress MP Shashi Tharoor on Wednesday attacked finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman for slashing key allocations, calling it a tepid budget that ignored the interests of the middle class.“The government has come out with a budget which deceives people with respect to the allocation in defence and health sectors. Lal Bahadur Shastri had said ‘Jai Jawan Jai Kisan’. The contribution of this budget is ‘Na Jawan na Kisan’,” Tharoor said.He said the “tepid budget ignored the middle class in their hour of need”. “You’ve given them an increase in fuel prices...Soon, banks will have to provide fuel loans,” he said.Quoting poet Rabindranath Tagore, Tharoor said: “You cannot cross the sea by merely staring at the water.” He added that the budget had abdicated the government’s responsibility to the “weakest in our economy” and “fundamental expectations” of the nation.On February 1, Sitharaman presented her third budget, boosting capital expenditure in an attempt to nurse the pandemic-ravaged economy back to health.The minister said the budget was founded on improvements to health and wellness, physical and financial capital and infrastructure, and inclusive development of aspiring India.Tharoor said: “Bharat should be atmanirbhar (self-reliant), not bharatwaasis (Indians)”, adding that the government had left the common people to their own devices. “That is not the atmanirbharta we need.”Responding to the MP from the principal Opposition party, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP Meenakshi Lekhi said India had once been languishing in the “fragile five” club and is now among the “top five economies of the world”. India was counted among the “ fragile five” in 2013 by Morgan Stanley, which coined the term to describe emerging economies that relied too much on foreign investment for growth. Lekhi said: “When we are called the underdogs, we win the match. That’s what the budget has done.”Trinamool Congress’s Saugata Roy said the budget had done nothing for the common man and the need was to put “ money into the hands of the people”.DMK’s Dayanidhi Maran said the budget should have offered some income tax breaks. “People have lost jobs, they are sitting at home. The budget should have given some income tax relief during this time of crisis.”In a written reply to the Lok Sabha earlier, minister of state for commerce and industry Som Parkash said, “There is no proposal to bring in changes to FDI rules for e-commerce sector in India, at present.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-lok-sabha-opposition-targets-govt-for-tepid-budget-101613005324265.html
11-02-2021||India||‘Give me a finger of my son...’: Emotions run high as rescuers toil to reach trapped tunnel workers||With flood waters receding slowly and the height of the slush in NTPC Limited’s tunnel in Tapovan shrinking, rescuers said on Wednesday they were making steady progress in reaching the 37 men trapped in the tunnel. For families of people believed to be buried in a barrage nearby, hope was dimming.As the rescue operation mounted after Sunday’s flash flood in the town in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli district entered the fourth day, several families gave up hope of reuniting with their missing kin and instead pleaded with rescuers to retrieve at least the bodies. The disaster has left at least 34 people dead, and the number of missing was 170 as of Wednesday night.“Give me even a finger of my son and I’ll return to my village to cremate him,” a tearful Ram Daman Singh, father of welder Vijay Singh, feared to be buried in the barrage, begged army officers on Wednesday afternoon.Like Vijay Singh, dozens of workers at NTPC’s hydroelectric project are believed to be buried several metres under debris in the barrage close to the entrance of a tunnel where multiple agencies have been working round-the-clock for over 72 hours.Difficult to retrieve bodiesOn Tuesday, a rescue team used ropes to wade into the slush, but soon abandoned the effort.Benudhar Nayak, commandant of the Indo-Tibetan Border Police’s First Batallion, who is overseeing the operations along with teams of the National Disaster Response Force and the Army, said there was no chance of recovering bodies from the barrage for the time being.“The slush in the barrage is over 20 metres deep since the plant’s construction work was ongoing... The rescuers will themselves sink. Even if they do enter the slush, they won’t be able to recover bodies,” he said.The officer said that while the rescuers have spared no efforts to retrieve bodies, they’ll now have to wait for an “opportune time” to resume the effort. “Maybe when the slush hardens, we will attempt again.”But when the slush hardens, the retrieval could be more difficult, said NTPC workers who survived the tragedy.“There was tons and tons of cement in the barrage. The flood brought it all down. Now, the slush is mixed with cement and it is getting watered aswell. When it all dries up, the bodies will be amidst concrete, and not slush,” said Devendra Lal Khanila, a junior electrician and leader of the workers’ union.While about four dozen workers were inside the network of tunnels when the flood hit Sunday, many more were in the barrage area. This barrage is also a point where workers washed away from another hydroelectric plant a few kilometres up the river are believed to be stuckTunnel work slow but steadyWith retrieval of bodies from the barrage unlikely for now, rescuers focused on making inroads into the tunnel. Until Tuesday evening, Nayak said, rescuers had cleared slush up to 110 metres into the 240-metre-long subsidiary tunnel. One batch of workers are believed to be trapped at a distance of around 100 metres from the point where the subsidiary tunnel meets the main tunnel.On Wednesday, Nayak said, much of the work was undone with slush from inside the tunnel occupying the cleared area. “But now there is less water in the tunnel than before. So the ground is getting a bit harder, easing our operation...We hope that people inside are still alive,” said Nayak.Ganga Singh, an ITBP constable, said another positive aspect was that the height of the slush has shrunk. “There are more air pockets inside the tunnel and more space to work now. Through the night, we worked with two earth movers inside, unlike earlier when only one would go in,” said Singh.On Tuesday, rescuers made an abortive attempt to use camera-fitted dronesto locate those trapped inside.“The conditions inside are very hostile for survival, but we usually stay hopeful for six days even in these circumstances,” an army lieutenant colonel, requesting not to be named, said about the chances of survival of the trapped men.Families losing hopeWhile families of those trapped in the tunnel understood that the rescue attempt was time-consuming and waited in accommodation provided by the local government, kin of workers believed to be buried in the barrage landed up at the site in large numbers on Wednesday. A helpdesk set up here on Tuesday evening to address their concerns wasn’t enough to keep them patient.“My brother Jitendra Kumar was outside the tunnel when the flood hit. He made a video call to me at 10.25am. When he called again at 10.34am, I failed to take his call. My family has been constantly asking me if he is alive. How do I tell them that I may have to return without even his body. The officials here have ...asked me to return home, saying that it could take two-four months to find his body,” said Pawan Kumar, a man who arrived here from Doda in Jammu and Kashmir.Others sounded more desperate. Mrityunjay Kumar from Patna said his brother, assistant engineer Manish Kumar, was married just two months ago. “Please deploy the army, the navy, anyone. At least give me my brother’s body,” he said in tears.The kin of missing workers held a protest in Raini village on Wednesday accusing the authorities of not carrying out the rescue operations properly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rescuers-toil-to-reach-trapped-men-hope-dims-for-kin-101613004827518.html
11-02-2021||India||One accused killed in encounter in Kasganj||One of the suspects in the killing of a police constable on Tuesday evening was shot dead in an encounter with the police in Kasganj district of Uttar Pradesh on Wednesday, the police said. The encounter took place hours after a two-member police team that went to Nagla Dhimar village to serve a warrant on an alleged liquor mafia kingpin was attacked — a constable beaten to death and a sub-inspector seriously injured.The man killed in the encounter was identified as Elkar Singh, the brother of the suspected kingpin, Moti Singh Dhimar, according to the police.“Elkar Singh was shot dead in a police encounter on Wednesday morning at Nagla Dhimar village under Sidhpura police station of Kasganj district. The main accused, Moti Singh Dhimar, and a few others are absconding, and a search operation is being conducted,” said Kasganj superintendent of police (SP) Manoj Sonkar.“Elkar Singh had a criminal past, and four cases were registered against him at Sidhpura police station in Kasganj. Similarly, 11 cases were registered against his brother, Moti Singh Dhimar, the main accused,” Sonkar added.The constable killed by the suspected gangsters was identified as Devendra Jasawat and the injured sub-inspector as Ashok Pal. “The sub-inspector and the constable were taken hostage by the mafia before the brutal attack. The accused took away the service revolver of the sub-inspector. About half-a-dozen goons were believed to have attacked the policemen with sharp weapons,” the Kasganj SP said.The constable’s body was found in a field after a search on Tuesday night. The injured sub- inspector was found in another place with his uniform torn and service revolver missing. He was referred to an Aligarh hospital because he had serious injuries.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has ordered stringent action against the suspects, including the invocation of the National Security Act. “The state government has zero tolerance for crime and criminals. Strict action {should} be taken against those guilty without any compromise on the law-and-order situation in the state,” the chief minister said in a statement released after the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/one-accused-killed-in-encounter-in-kasganj-101613004689236.html
11-02-2021||India||Farm groups to hold ‘rail roko’ on February 18||The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) — an umbrella body of around 40 farmer groups — on Wednesday announced a nationwide “rail roko” programme on February 18 as it decided to scale up its agitation against three contentious farm laws at a meeting of its senior representatives.SKM also said it will hold a candle march and other programmes on February 14 to remember the 40 troopers who were killed in the 2019 Pulwama terror attack; and on February 16, observe the birth anniversary of Sir Chhotu Ram, a prominent pre-Independence Jat leader.“Rail stop programmes will be held on February 18 from 12- 4pm across the country. From February 12, all road toll plazas in Rajasthan will be made toll free,” farmer leader Darshan Pal said in an SKM statement that gave details about their plans.The decisions came on a day when Prime Minister Narendra Modi said in Lok Sabha that the government has “great respect” for farmers, and attacked the Opposition for “misleading” them on three laws that aim to liberalise the farm sector. Modi, while backing the laws, also reiterated the government’s stand to discuss them clause by clause and make changes, if needed.“I want to ask all the farmers whether the new law has taken away any right, any system from them. I can understand the Opposition protest if these laws were compulsory. But the new laws are not compulsory for anyone. This is optional and farmers should go where they get more profit. So, there is no reason to protest,” Modi said in the Lower House.Reacting to PM’s speech, Darshan Pal, said: “PM said he respects farmers which is why ministers have been appointed for talks with farmers. But the truth is that despite 11 rounds of talks, no substantial changes were offered in the laws. He said that farmers are being misled but we have been fighting for issues of farmers and not any other matter. We urge PM to understand our issues.”On Wednesday, over 40 artists from Punjab performed at the protest sites on the Singhu and Tikri borders, where tens of thousand of farmers have been camped since November 26.Though the sentiment at the protest sites has largely been against Deep Sidhu, an actor-turned-activist who was arrested as one of the alleged perpetrators of the violence at Red Fort on January 26, when a tractor rally organised by the farm unions descended into chaos, a small group of young farmers in Singhu also put up posters in support of Sidhu and asked that the cases against him be withdrawn.Regarding the posters, an SKM member said they were not associated with the banners. “As far as disagreements with the leadership is concerned [on Deep Sidhu and Lakha Sidhana], people can have their own opinions and they have a right to register dissent.” Sidhu was arrested by Delhi Police on February 9.Farmer leader Rakesh Tikait, a spokesperson for Bharatiya Kisan Union (Tikait), on Wednesday stressed on the need for unity among farmer groups. “We are united in our struggle against the farm laws and the government should not be under any illusion [of a rift].”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-groups-to-hold-rail-roko-on-feb-18-101613004499989.html
11-02-2021||India||Laws not binding on farmers, says PM; repeats offer for talks||Prime Minister Narendra Modi stressed on Wednesday that the new farm laws passed in September were optional and not binding on farmers, who, he said, can still sell their produce wherever they earn more profits and not necessarily to corporate entities.The PM invited protesting farmers to resume a dialogue, saying changes could be introduced in the legislation if any problems indeed existed, even as he supported the agricultural reforms and told the Lok Sabha: “As long as our small farmers don’t get empowered, full freedom will not be achieved.”Thousands of farmers have massed on the borders of Delhi since November 26 to press their demand for a repeal of the three laws that ease restrictions in farm trade, allow traders to stockpile large quantities of food, and lay down a national framework for contract farming.The farmers say the laws will erode their bargaining power, leave them at the mercy of big corporations and could lead to the dismantling of government-run agricultural markets, called mandis, and a system of MSPs for agricultural produce.“After the enactment of the new laws, neither the mandis have closed nor MSP has stopped, but more crops have been bought under MSP,” Modi said in his reply to the motion of thanks on the President’s speech to Parliament.He also lashed out at “andolanjeevi” (people who live off protests) for “maligning the sanctity” of the farmers’ protests and maintained that the long-pending agricultural reforms will usher in new opportunities, investments and help open up new markets for farmers.“I want to ask all the farmers whether the new law has taken away any right, any system from them? I can understand the Opposition protest if these laws were compulsory. But the new laws are not compulsory for anyone. This is optional and farmers should go where they get more profit. So, there is no reason to protest,” Modi told lawmakers as Congress MPs staged a walkout.Congress MPs including their floor leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury repeatedly tried to counter the PM during the speech as former party president Rahul Gandhi stood quietly. This is the second time Modi spoke at length about the farm bills after his reply in the Rajya Sabha on Monday in which he emphatically said, “MSP was there, MSP is there and it will be there.”In the Lok Sabha, the Prime Minister argued about the need for farm reforms. He maintained that the nation’s annadatas (food gviers) must prosper and not depend on government aid. Modi said agricultural reforms were “important and required” and the government will “continue to try to tackle the challenges in the farm sector”.“The changes are required for small and marginal farmers. We are unable to invest as per requirement. When investments will increase, employment will increase, new opportunities will come. No one wants our farmers to be stuck in poverty. As long as our small farmers don’t get empowered, full freedom will not be achieved.”Hitting back at Congress leaders who said the farmers hadn’t asked for the laws, Modi said status quo will ruin the nation and listed examples of social reformers Raja Ram Mohan Roy and Ishwar ChandraVidyasagar and his own government’s record to defend proactive measures.“This country made a law against dowry even as no one asked for it. No one wanted a law against triple talaq but we did it. no one had asked for laws against child marriage or to give property rights to daughters, but these laws were made as they are needed for a progressive society,” the PM said.“People didn’t ask for Ayushman Bharat or Swachh Bharat,” he said referring to the government’s health insurance scheme and cleanliness mission. “If farmers don’t want new system, they can stick to the old system.”Congress leader Rahul Gandhi has alleged that the government had created monopolies in several sectors and the farm laws will help only a handful of industrialists close to the PM.Modi didn’t mention Gandhi’s name, but countered the allegation. “We believe in progressive politics and not regressive politics. If the country needs a public sector, then private sector too, is important. We must trust our young people. And it is not correct to slam every entrepreneur. Will the IAS officers run everything,” the PM said, referring to the government’s decision to sell stakes in Air India and other public enterprises.Modi referred to mythological characters such as Raja Janak to underline how even the kings had been involved in agriculture. But while he said that he “respects” farmers’ sentiments, he lashed out at people whom he has termed andolanjeevis. “...What is the relation of these demands to farm protests? Real protestors don’t do like this. This is how an andolanjeevi acts. This is a matter of concern for all who believe in democracy.”Modi also narrated a story of an official who held a post of supplying cigars to late British PM Sir Winston Churchill and wanted a salary hike many years after Independence to underline how old systems often lose relevance and need changes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/laws-not-binding-on-farmers-says-pm-repeats-offer-for-talks-101613004275080.html
11-02-2021||India||28 people, a majority of them Christians, booked in a month||Chhatar Singh Katre, a teacher in a small village school run by the government in Madhya Pradesh’s Balaghat district organized a get-together and a prayer meet on January 27. The occasion, his daughter said, was to celebrate her college admission.Before the programme started on January 27, the police reached the spot, and detained Katre, and his friends Mahendra Nagdeva J Nathan; all three were taken to the police station for interrogation, and subsequently arrested for luring and coercing people for conversion.All three remain in jail, their bail please having been rejected by the Balaghat sessions court.Katre’s daughter Kalyani Katre said, “My father organized the meet for me and now he is in jail for no reason. The case was registered against him and two others on the complaint of a person who was booked 10 years ago for assaulting and harassing my father and others for participating in a religious programme.”Raghunath Khatarkar who is investigating the case at Lalbarra police station of Balaghat district, said the complainant Hemant Thakre recorded his statement before the court and accused Katre and two others of offering him ₹10,000 for conversion. “In the name of God, they also tried to scare people that something bad would happen to them.”In a month since the enactment of the Madhya Pradesh Freedom of Religion Ordinance to regulate interfaith marriages and conversion, 28 people have been booked and at least half of them are Christians, according to police records.The ordinance, which replaces the MP Freedom of Religion Act 1968, came into force on January 9. State home department data shows that eight cases have been registered in eight different districts in a month, and 28 people named. While four cases are against nine Muslims for allegedly forcing women to change their religion for marriage, another four were against 19 Christians for luring and coercing people to change their faith through prayer meetings, police reports showed.“Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan called it a Beti Bachao campaign of the state government. Out of total of eight cases, the complainants in five cases are women. The ordinance was introduced to regularize conversion and to stop illegal activities taking place in the name of conversion. Police are arresting people after preliminary investigation so no one should be worried about anything,” said Vishwas Sarang, cabinet spokesperson and minister of medical education department.With 67% of those booked being Christian, members of the community have accused the state government of targetting social workers. “Now, people are afraid of organising prayer meet because some anti-social elements are creating ruckus and making false accusations of conversion against our people,” said Jaistar Sarbhang, president of the Christian Welfare Foundation, Balaghat.Meanwhile, Muslim organisations said that the law was being used to renew old case of marital discord between inter-faith couples. Jamiat Ulema-e-Hind, MP, president, Hazi Haroon said, “Police are renewing the old cases to target the members of Muslim community, especially of middle and lower middle class.” However, Hindu organisations said that the law has proved successful in halting illegal conversions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/28-people-a-majority-of-them-christians-booked-in-a-month-101613004085403.html
11-02-2021||India||India emerging as leading global power: US||The United States said that India is one of the “most important partners in the Indo-Pacific region” and welcomed its emergence as a “leading global power” in the region.“India is one of the most important partners in the Indo-Pacific region to us. We welcome India’s emergence as a leading global power and its role as a net security provider in the region,” said US State Department spokesperson Ned Price during a press briefing on Tuesday.Meanwhile, the US also expressed concern at China’s attempts to “intimidate its neighbours” against the backdrop of the India-China border standoff. The US will stand with friends and partners to advance security and prosperity across the Indo-Pacific, Price said in response to a question on the Biden administration’s position on China’s efforts to encroach on India’s territory.Key members of the Biden administration, such as secretary of state Antony Blinken have identified China as one of the main concerns for the US while supporting the strong position taken against China by former president Donald Trump.However, they have signalled the new administration’s handling of the issue will not be as confrontational as the approach adopted by Trump.Price said the US is closely monitoring the India-China standoff.“We are concerned by Beijing’s pattern of ongoing attempts to intimidate its neighbours. As always, we’ll stand with friends, we’ll stand with partners, we’ll stand with allies to advance our shared prosperity, security, and values in...the Indo-Pacific,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-emerging-as-leading-global-power-us-101613003901213.html
11-02-2021||India||Rabi sowing at an all-time high||After a bountiful kharif season because of a good monsoon, planting of rabi or winter-sown crops has expanded beyond the normal acreage, holding out hopes of a bumper harvest.According to data released by the farm ministry, sowing of rabi crops has crossed last year’s all-time-high area sown at over 65.2 million hectares so far. This is higher than the normal acreage of 62 million hectares for the season and 1.6% higher compared to area sown a year ago.Area sown under wheat, rapeseed, mustard and gram has reached an all-time high, surpassing records, data shows.Wheat has been sown on 33.7 million hectares, surpassing last rabi season’s all-time high of 33.6 million hectares. Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra have shown an expanded area under wheat, making up for less area under wheat in Punjab, Rajasthan, UP, Bihar and Gujarat.In Madhya Pradesh, the area under wheat has increased for three consecutive years, from 5.3 million hectares during 2017-18, to 6 million hectares during 2018-19 and 8 million hectares during 2019-20. This year, so far, the area cultivated under wheat in the state has increased further to 8.8 million hectares.The area under coarse cereals has however lagged 8.2%, including under major rabi cereals like jowar, maize and barley.The area cultivated under gram has surpassed last season’s all-time high area sown of 10.7 million hectares to stand at 10.9 million hectares because of higher plantings in Maharashtra and Gujarat. The area under rapeseed and mustard, the main winter oilseeds has increased by 6.7% to 7.3 million hectares. This is the highest ever area cultivated under rabi oilseeds. “Rajasthan so far has the largest area under rapeseed and mustard, accounting for 35-40% of the total area sown in India,” according to the Centre For Monitoring Indian Economy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rabi-sowing-at-an-all-time-high-101613003757061.html
11-02-2021||India||Vista avenue project given heritage panel nod: Centre||The Centre has received clearance from the Heritage Conversation Committee (HCC) for the second phase of the Central Vista redevelopment project that involves restructuring of the Central Vista Avenue in New Delhi, the government informed Parliament on Wednesday.In January, the committee, headed by the additional secretary of the ministry of housing and urban affairs, approved the first phase of the redevelopment, the construction of the new parliament building.“Prior approval of the Heritage Conservation Committee is taken for every project of the Central Vista redevelopment, wherever applicable, before construction work commences. Clearance of Heritage Conservation Committee has been obtained on 11.01 2021 for construction of new parliament building and for Central Vista Avenue Projects on 02.02.2021. For other projects, it will be obtained, wherever necessary,” Union housing minister Hardeep Puri said in written reply to a question from Congress MP KC Venugopal in the Rajya Sabha.Puri added that the Indira Gandhi National Centre for the Arts (IGNCA) will be temporarily housed in the refurbished Janpath Hotel building and will finally be shifted to a new building to be built at the plot where Jamnagar House once stood.The “heritage building” that houses the “National Archives” will be retained, the minister added, and the National Museum move to “retro-fitted North and South Blocks.”In his question, Venugopal asked the housing minister “whether a detailed heritage audit was conducted prior to initiating the bidding process.”The Supreme Court earlier this year, dismissed a clutch of petitions against the redevelopment project while holding that the government and its agencies fulfilled all legal requirements in altering the land use of the seven plots in the area, and in obtaining the environmental clearances for constructing the new Parliament building.In a 2:1 majority verdict, the SC held that the government must seek a “formal written prior permission” of HCC before commencing development work on plot number 118 (where the new 60,000-sq ft Parliament building is expected to come up).The committee includes officials from the Central Public Works Department (CPWD), NDMC, Delhi Development Authority (DDA), Archeology Survey of India (ASI), Municipal Corporation of Delhi (MCD), Delhi Urban Art Commission (DUAC), National Museum and experts from the Delhi University and the School of Planning and Architecture.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vista-avenue-project-given-heritage-panel-nod-centre-101613002204169.html
11-02-2021||India||SC issues notice to Maharashtra officials over Avni killing||The Supreme Court on Wednesday issued contempt notices to top officials in the Maharashtra government for violating its order to declare no reward for killing the man-eater tigress Avni and to not celebrate the killing. The tigress was shot dead by a hunter during a late night operation in November 2018.Raising questions over the procedure followed in shooting down the tigress, a petition filed by wildlife enthusiast Sangeeta Dogra claimed that there is enough in the post-mortem report of the tigress to show that she was not a man-eater.Dogra further stated in her petition that on September 11, 2018, the Supreme Court while permitting Avni (T-1) to be put down, said: “The efforts to tranquilize and capture T-1 tigress will be continued and if unsuccessful, it shall be eliminated by shooting to avoid any further loss of human life. The Chief Conservator of Forests, Yavatmal is authorized to carry out the above order. He shall not declare any prize or any similar incentive for the responsible person.”Despite the clear instruction by the court, Dogra claimed in her contempt petition that within days of the killing, the villagers arranged a felicitation function on November 14, 2018 and presented a silver statue of the tigress along with a cash reward to the shooter involved in the killing.A three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde issued notice on the contempt petition to Principal Secretary, Maharashtra, Vikas Kharge, Principal Chief Conservator Forests (Nagpur), Deputy Conservator of Forests, Pandharkawada district, and Member Secretary, National Tiger Conservation Authority.“First we need to examine your plea that the dead tigress was not a man-eater. Second, they (contemnors) flouted our order that they shall not celebrate or reward anyone for killing the tigress. We will issue notice as our order is clearly violated,” said the bench, which also comprised justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian.Dogra claimed that the post-mortem report did not indicate presence of nails, hair or teeth of human beings in the stomach. According to her, if the dead tigress was a man-eater, these would have been found because they remain in a predator’s stomach for around six months. The bench asked Dogra to submit proof to this effect and adjourned the matter after two weeks.The tigress is believed to have killed at least 13 villagers in Maharashtra’s Pandharkawda and Ralegoan regions of Yavatmal district for over one-and-a-half years. The six-year-old tigress was shot dead after a massive hunt and her two cubs, relocated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-issues-notice-to-maharashtra-officials-over-avni-killing-101613002004549.html
11-02-2021||India||Indian, Chinese armies begin pullback at LAC||Indian and Chinese troops have begun disengaging on the southern and northern banks of Pangong Tso, China’s defence ministry announced on Wednesday even as people familiar with the development in India said both sides were pulling back armoured elements from heights around the frozen lake.There was no official word from India’s defence ministry or foreign ministry on the development, which came against the backdrop of a nine-month military standoff in the Ladakh sector of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) that has taken bilateral ties to an all-time low.Defence minister Rajnath Singh will make a statement on the development in Parliament on Thursday, in line with the convention that such key issues are first taken up in the House when it is in session.In a statement on the Chinese defence ministry’s website, spokesperson Senior Colonel Wu Qian said: “The Chinese and Indian frontline troops at the southern and northern bank of the Pangong Tso Lake start synchronised and organised disengagement from February 10.”He added: “This move is in accordance with the consensus reached by both sides at the 9th round of China-India Corps Commander Level Meeting.” The reference was to a meeting of military commanders held on the Chinese side of the Moldo-Chushul border meeting point on January 24.Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Wang Wenbin said in a similar statement that troops from both sides had begun to “conduct simultaneous and planned disengagement” at Pangong lake in line with the consensus reached by the Chinese and Indian foreign ministers at a meeting in Moscow last September and the ninth round of commander-level talks.“We hope the Indian side will work with China to meet each other halfway, strictly implement the consensus reached between the two sides and ensure the smooth implementation of the disengagement process,” Wang added.Both statements gave no details of the disengagement process.Also Read | Pullback raises hope but India set to keep close eye on ChinaIn New Delhi, people familiar with the disengagement plan said on condition of anonymity that both sides have started pulling back armoured elements – tanks and infantry combat vehicles – from heights on the southern bank of Pangong lake.Troops are still holding positions on strategic heights, the people said. No withdrawal of troops has taken place in the Finger Area on the northern bank of the lake, the people added.One of the people cited above said the Indian side would proceed with extreme caution in view of China’s actions during the standoff, including attempts to unilaterally alter the status quo at Pangong lake last August.The Indian Army occupied a series of key heights to prevent the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) from grabbing territory on the southern bank of Pangong Tso in a stealthy midnight move on August 29, 2020. The Indian side’s control of ridgeline positions on the southern bank allows it to dominate the sector and keep an eye on Chinese military activity. These positions are scattered across Rezang and Reqin passes, Gurung Hill and Magar heights, while the PLA also holds some features on the southern bank.Last September, India rushed frontline tanks and armoured vehicles to the strategic heights held by its soldiers on the southern bank, in response to intimidating moves by the PLA.Following the ninth meeting of the military commanders, a joint statement said the two sides had “agreed to push for an early disengagement of the frontline troops”, and to hold the 10th round of the commander-level meeting “at an early date to jointly advance de-escalation”.LAC passes through Pangong lake, parts of which are controlled by Indian and Chinese troops. Both sides also patrol the waters of the lake in special boats.This is the second attempt to disengage frontline troops to resolve the standoff that began last May. Disengagement in Galwan valley took place in early July, but it didn’t progress in other areas. India has consistently pushed for comprehensive disengagement at all friction points and restoration of the status quo ante of early April 2020.The announcement of disengagement by the Chinese side was markedly different from the resolution of the military standoff at Doklam in 2017. At that time, both countries issued simultaneous statements on troop withdrawals.Former Northern Army commander, Lt Gen (retired) DS Hooda, said: “On the face of it, the disengagement is a positive step. I think we will have to wait for details of the process, whether it includes all military presence or only heavy equipment.”Vipin Narang, associate professor of political science at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, said: “Let’s see what happens. Any movement toward disengagement is good, but it has to be real and sustained, and verified not just in Pangong but eventually elsewhere as well. It can’t be China pretending to disengage and India pretending to believe it.”Qian Feng, of the National Strategy Institute at Beijing’s Tsinghua University, described China’s announcement as a positive move.“The agreement between the two sides to withdraw troops before the Chinese lunar calendar’s Spring Festival is good news, not only to avoid a continued decline of Sino-Indian relations but also to ease tensions along the border...and reduce the possibility of friction and conflict in the short term,” Qian said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-chinese-armies-begin-pullback-at-lac-101613001599181.html
11-02-2021||India||Evidence planted, says activist Rona Wilson after forensic firm’s analysis||Activist Rona Wilson, accused of fomenting violence in Bhima Koregaon in 2018, moved the Bombay high court on Wednesday seeking the quashing of criminal proceedings against him after an American digital forensics consulting company concluded that fabricated evidence was planted in the electronic evidence, including a laptop and thumb drive, which was seized from his residence in April 2018 and on the basis of which he was arrested two months later.Denying the claims of the report, National Investigation Agency (NIA) spokesperson Jaya Roy said: “The digital extracts which we have submitted in the court along with the chargesheet were examined at RFSL (Regional Forensic Science Laboratory, Pune), which shows no evidence of any malware in any laptop/device.”The petition, filed by Wilson’s lawyer Sudeep Pasbola, attached a copy of a digital forensic report from Arsenal Consulting, whose contents were first reported by the Washington Post. It also sought the constitution of a special investigation team to analyse the electronic evidence and compensation for wrongful detention.Arsenal Consulting, a Massachusetts-based digital forensics firm, surmised that Wilson’s computer was compromised by the same attacker for 22 months between 2016 and April 17, 2018, when electronic evidence was seized by the Pune Police on suspicion of his alleged links with the violence that erupted in Bhima Koregaon village in Maharashtra on January 1, 2018, during the bicentennial celebrations of a British-era war commemorated by Dalits.The firm found that malware had been installed in Wilson’s computer on June 13, 2016, after someone using the email account of Varavara Rao — who is one of the accused in this case — sent a phishing mail to Wilson. A NetWire remote access trojan (RAT) was installed on Wilson’s Hewlett Packard Pavilion notebook once he clicked on what he thought was a mere Dropbox link. This allowed the attacker to conduct surveillance and plant incriminating documents, its report stated.“The report of Arsenal Consulting is an attempt to tarnish the investigation and the evidence collected therein,” an official close to the investigation and who did not wish to be named said.The forensics report suggested the attackers deployed a commonly used strategy known as spear phishing. The attackers send an email that appears to be from a trustworthy source, convincing the target to click on attachments that deliver what is known as the exploit, or the piece of code that opens a backdoor and ultimately allows for malware to be installed.Analysing the forensic images obtained from the Toshiba hard drive inside Wilson’s computer as well as a SanDisk Cruzer Blade thumb drive that was attached to it, the report stated that the attacker copied documents into the thumb drive on March 14, 2018, and later created a warren of dummy folders containing dummy data “so that the victim would not stumble upon them”.These incriminating documents were delivered to Wilson’s computer by NetWire and no other means, the report stated.“The essential evidence in the case is electronic evidence. There is no mention of arms or ammunition. The Arsenal report examined 10 of the letters and found that they were planted. Wilson was not aware of these documents, nor did he open them. In our opinion, this punches a hole in the prosecution’s case,” said Mihir Desai, one of the lawyers in the Bhima Koregaon case.“The report of Arsenal Consulting is sufficient grounds for quashing of the FIR and chargesheet against Wilson and his co-accused,” a senior counsel who represented Wilson said.Other documents that Wilson reportedly authored were saved to a PDF format using either Microsoft Word 2010 or 2013, neither of which versions were installed in his computer, the report added. It also found that the same attacker had also launched a similar malware attack against other co-defendants of this case over a period of four years.“Arsenal has connected the same attacker to a significant malware infrastructure which has been deployed over the course of approximately four years to not only attack and compromise Mr Wilson’s computer for 22 months, but to attack his co-defendants in the Bhima Koregaon case and defendants in other high profile Indian cases as well,” the report stated.Wilson’s petition argued that in light of the Arsenal report, any prosecution against him or the other co-accused — there are 15 other prominent activists, academics and lawyers, among others — would be a “travesty of justice”.“In view of this, any further prolonging of the case against the petitioner and the co-accused will be an absolute and continued travesty of justice, apart from sanctifying the abuse of process of law and will lead to further violation of the petitioners and co-accused fundamental rights,” the petition read.Investigating officials said that videos were taken of all the evidence seized by the Pune Police from Wilson’s residence, which included hard disk, CDs, laptop, mobile phones, memory cards, etc. These were enumerated in a seizure memo following due procedure following which a strict “chain of custody” was maintained. The evidence was sent to Regional FSL Pune for further examination. The report did not indicate any instance of tampering with the digital devices.Forensic images of digital devices along with final reports are provided to accused persons as mandated by the Code of Criminal Procedure.Arsenal used tools to decrypt and parse NetWire logs and Quickheal database fragments. The report claimed that the firm was able to reconstruct the events of how Wilson’s computer was compromised, which also included synchronising files between Wilson’s computer and another server.NetWire logs are files that contain keystrokes and other information such as browsing history, saved passwords, composed emails and editing documents.The hack was technically not sophisticated and appears to be inspired by Soviet-era espionage, cyber security experts said.“Going by Arsenal Consulting’s findings, the technical methods of compromise seem crude. However, the overall mechanism is strangely reminiscent of the methods used by unrelenting and aggressive Russian intelligence agencies. They are known to place kompromat (compromising material like child pornography) inside the computers of unwitting activists, dissenters and opponents,” said Pukhraj Singh, a cyber threat intelligence analyst.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/evidence-planted-says-activist-rona-wilson-after-forensic-firm-s-analysis-101613001233930.html
11-02-2021||India||Tussle intensifies: Twitter, govt at odds over blocking||Twitter on Wednesday said that it complied partially with the government’s requests to block access to accounts, but let others — particularly those by journalists, activists and politics — remain since the directions were “not consistent with Indian law”, prompting the government to express “disappointment” during a meeting with top executives of the social media company later in the day.Twitter’s blog, which gave details of its actions, said: “...we do not believe that the actions we have been directed to take are consistent with Indian law.” And, it added, “in keeping with our principles of defending protected speech and freedom of expression, we have not taken any action on accounts that consist of news media entities, journalists, activists, and politicians. To do so, we believe, would violate their fundamental right to free expression under Indian law.”The statement, released on Wednesday morning, prompted an initial response from the ministry of electronics and information technology (Meity) — significantly, on Koo, a home-made social media website meant to rival Twitter — and appeared to signal an escalation of a confrontation brewing for over a week.Throughout the day, several government officials expressed dismay with Twitter’s actions, echoing remarks from last week when the government said the company was not in a position to judge its directions and had to follow them.Representatives from the ministry and Twitter’s global policy and safety teams met later, where the Meity “secretary expressed his deep disappointment” about Twitter’s response. “He took this opportunity to remind Twitter that in India, its Constitution and laws are supreme. It is expected that responsible entities not only reaffirm but remain committed to compliance to the law of land,” Meity said in a statement after the meeting in the evening.A government official, who asked not to be named, said Twitter cannot pick and choose which accounts to block. A second official, who asked not to be named, however, was more reconciliatory, saying that the company appeared to have “taken down 95% of the accounts and posts” the government flagged.HT reviewed Twitter’s disclosures to the Lumen database — a nonprofit repository meant to track online censorship — on the Indian government’s requests and found that the company had removed 702 URLs in all. These included posts as well as accounts.The government is believed to have handed over a list of 1,300 URLs (for accounts as well as posts) in its two orders.The first government official quoted above said: “We respect freedom of expression, but it comes with reasonable restrictions. Hesitatingly taking action or begrudgingly taking down accounts is unacceptable.” The government, this person said, was seeking legal options while exercising restraint.On its part, Twitter too said that it was seeking legal option. “We will continue to advocate for the right of free expression on behalf of the people we serve. We are exploring options under Indian law — both for Twitter and for the accounts that have been impacted,” it said.The confrontation between the two sides started in the aftermath of the January 26 violence in the Capital during the farmers’ protests. The government first ordered Twitter to block 257 accounts citing emergency powers under section 69A of the IT Act, targeting accounts that it said were inciting violence during the protests.On Wednesday, it elaborated further on why it defied the government orders and only partially restricted accounts: “Out of these (orders), two were emergency blocking orders that we temporarily complied with but subsequently restored access to the content in a manner that we believe was consistent with Indian law,” it said.Legal experts say that at the heart of this dispute could be the nature of section 69A, which is opaque. “Under section 69A, and particularly rule 16, a company is under obligation of confidentiality, so we don’t actually know what reasons were cited by the government in its orders. It is not untenable for a private company to refuse to comply with directions under this section if it believes the direction is not consistent with law,” said Amber Sinha, technology lawyer and executive director of Centre for Internet and Society.Sinha added that the government has broad powers under Section 69A, and there is a lack of clarity around the functioning of a Review Committee that is meant to evaluate the proportionality of emergency orders issued by invoking this section.While the action has been partial, the company has still taken down hundreds of accounts, its blog post said.The company said it took three steps to partially address the government’s directions: it reduced the visibility of certain hashtags “containing harmful content”, took enforcement action – “including permanent suspension” against over 500 accounts, and blocked from access in India several of the others identified by the government.A Twitter spokesperson said the company had no further comment when asked to share details of what hashtags it acted against, which accounts it blocked on its own for misuse of its rules, and which accounts had been withheld in India.Internet freedom activists said Twitter has typically pushed back strongly against governments in refusing to censor content, at times even defying laws in the United States, where the company is based. “There are a couple areas where they are much less restrictive than others, for example, when it comes to so-called terrorist content like the Hezbollah that US considers a terror group, and nudity and sex work. These are areas where they are not as restricting and these particular examples are interesting because they are pushing up against US law,” said Jillian C York, director for International Freedom of Expression at the Electronic Frontier Foundation, in an interview to HT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tussle-intensifies-twitter-govt-at-odds-over-blocking-101613000979987.html
11-02-2021||India||Choice for government: Fuel tax cut or inflation?||Revenue receipts from Union excise duties have proved to be the silver lining in the 2021-22 Budget, as far as central taxes are concerned. Not only does the government hope to collect, as per Revised Estimates (RE), more than what its Budget Estimates (BE) projected in 2020-21, the 2021-22 (BE) numbers project union excise duties to be the only tax head where 2021-22 (BE) numbers are greater than 2020-21 (BE) numbers. To be sure, 2021-22 (BE) collections are expected to be lower than 2020-21 (RE) collections on this head. Oil minister Dharmendra Pradhan on Wednesday ruled out any cut in excise duty. His remark came on a day the price of petrol rose to an all-time high of .87.60 a litre in Delhi. The diesel rate rose to .77.73 per litre in the city.1. Rising fuel tax rates contributing to higher excise duty collectionAfter most indirect taxes were subsumed into the Goods and Services Tax (GST) post 2017, the bulk of union excise duties are receipts from taxes on petroleum products, primarily petrol and diesel. In 2021-22, the reason for a sharp jump in union excise duty collections is not a spike in consumption of petrol-diesel but an increase in tax rates. As oil prices fell, the government chose to keep retail prices of fuel roughly constant, and enhanced excise duties – a move that shored up revenue receipts.However, the use of these duties on petrol and diesel to boost revenue receipts might come at the cost of higher inflation in the economy as oil prices strengthen, provided the government does not cut excise levies. But doing so may hit revenue receipts. Here are four charts which explain this trade-off.2. Tax component of petrol-diesel prices has been increasing in the post-Covid-19 periodThe petroleum ministry provides disaggregated data on the various components of the price of petrol and diesel in the country. This shows that the tax component of both petrol and diesel prices increased significantly in the post-Covid-19 period. Government taxes accounted for.37.8 and .28 per litre in petrol and diesel prices on April 1, 2020 (a few days after India declared a lockdown to slow the pandemic). This has increased to .52.9 and .43.1 by February 1, 2021.The 2021-22 Budget has not reduced duties on petrol and diesel. What it has done instead is shift the special excise duty to the newly created head of agriculture, infrastructure and development cess; .2.5 per litre on petrol and .4 per litre on diesel will now go to this. There is no change in retail prices.3. International oil prices have been rising gradually, adding to the petroleum price rallyInternational crude prices fell sharply after the pandemic, as economic activity and fuel consumption plummeted with lockdowns and travel restrictions across the globe. Oil prices have started regaining momentum with vaccine roll-outs across the world. Price of India’s crude oil basket has increased by 26% to $54.79 per barrel between November 2020, when most Covid-19 vaccines were approved, and January 2021. It is this rise in international crude prices which has been driving petrol-diesel prices in the past few months.Although, oil prices are still significantly lower than what they were before the pandemic erupted, they are expected to increase compared to what they were in 2020. If international crude prices continue their upward trajectory, base price of petrol and diesel will keep increasing, which will entail another source of tailwinds in addition to higher taxes.Higher fuel prices, along with growing economic momentum, could add to inflationary pressuresAs international crude prices increase, petrol-diesel prices will continue to increase if tax rates do not change. If Covid-19 infections in the advanced countries drop sharply with vaccinations, oil demand and therefore prices could increase from their current levels. In January, Goldman Sachs estimated Brent crude oil price to reach $65 by middle of 2021 as demand boosts from the roll-out of Covid-19 vaccines and there is limited increase in supply from OPEC+ countries. This will entail an upward pressure on overall inflation numbers. Because fuel prices affect household budgets both directly (travel expenses) and indirectly (transport costs), they can have a significant cascading effect on prices. Experts have been pointing out that businesses might have been reluctant to pass on such costs to consumers when the economy was not doing well.However, this could change with the economy picking up momentum. The latest monetary policy resolution of the Reserve Bank of India highlighted these concerns.Given the centrality of petroleum products in the government’s fiscal calculations -the Budget assumes a very high excise duty collection and lowest petroleum subsidies ever – a sharp rise in global oil prices could force the economy into an unenviable trade-off between fiscal balance and inflation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/choice-for-government-fuel-tax-cut-or-inflation-101612984663746.html
11-02-2021||India||More berths, aisle markers as railways rolls out AC 3-tier economy coach||The Indian railways on Wednesday said it has rolled out its first air conditioned three tier economy class coach, which it hailed as the "cheapest and best AC travel in the world”."In this new passenger coach, where modern passenger amenities have been taken to a new peak, the passenger capacity has been increased from 72 to 83 berths," the Rail Coach Factory said in a statement on Wednesday.The LHB Three Tier Coach was designed by Rail Coach Factory (RCF) Kapurthala and work on its design started in October 2020 with the approval of the Ministry of Railways, the production unit said.These coaches will feature an “economical” AC 3-tier Class in between the current AC 3-tier and non-AC Sleeper Class, RCF said.“Many innovations have been incorporated in the design of this coach. For increased passenger space, the high voltage electric switchgear presently installed on board has been shifted below the under frame for the first time in Indian Railways, thereby increasing the passenger capacity by introducing 11 additional berths in these coaches,” a statement from the ministry said.Each coach is provided with a wider and one disabled friendly toilet entry door, which is a new initiative, it noted.The coach also has an increased headroom in the middle and upper berths. Public address and passenger information systems have also been installed as a part of passenger facilities in these coaches.“Ambience and ease of access into the coach has been improved by aesthetically pleasing and ergonomic entrance. The interior of the coach has luminescent aisle markers, illuminated berth indicators integral with night lights with luminescent berth numbers," RCF said.Series production of these coaches will start from this month.“This new 3-Tier Air-Conditioned Economy Class coach is a symbol of aspirational India bringing AC travel to a larger number of people and enhancing the capacity of our express trains. Undoubtedly, now every rail journey will become a journey of pleasant memories,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/more-berths-aisle-markers-as-railways-rolls-out-ac-3-tier-economy-coach-101612981462320.html
11-02-2021||India||Pullback raises hope but India set to keep close eye on China||The limited withdrawal of frontline troops by the Indian and Chinese armies from one of the key frictions points on the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh on Wednesday has turned the spotlight on how the broader disengagement plan will unfold in other flashpoints where rival soldiers are deployed eyeball-to-eyeball and where previous attempts to reduce military tensions have failed.The mutual pulling back of tanks and infantry combat vehicles from heights on the southern bank of Pangong Tso a fortnight after military commanders of the two armies agreed on January 24 to push for early disengagement has raised hopes of a solution to the 10-month military standoff.Also Read | India to continue talks with China for disengagement: Minister in Lok SabhaThis is the first significant movement in negotiations to ease tensions in at least eight months -- disengagement in Galwan valley took place in early July 2020 but it did not progress in other areas.According to officials and experts monitoring the border row, India will keep a wary eye on the developments taking place in the area as the process unfolds.PATROLLING RIGHTS IN DEPSANG AND FINGER AREA The Chinese People’s Liberation Army’s (PLA) aggressive forward deployments in the eastern Ladakh theatre have hindered the Indian Army’s patrolling patterns in several areas including Depsang, Finger Area on the northern bank of Pangong Tso, Gogra and Kongka La.Regaining access to several areas that are now difficult to reach due to actions by the Chinese army along LAC is critical, experts said.“On the face of it, the disengagement is a positive step. I think we will have to wait for details of the process, whether it includes all military presence or only heavy equipment and aspects such as future patrolling pattern in vacated areas. It is hoped that this is a part of a more comprehensive agreement covering all areas in Ladakh,” said former Northern Army commander Lieutenant General DS Hooda (retd).PLA’s deployments in forward areas in Depsang have hindered access of Indian soldiers to routes including the ones leading to Patrolling Points (PP) 10, 11, 11-A, 12 and 13. Also, before PLA grabbed positions on Finger 4, the Indian Army would patrol right up to Finger 8, which New Delhi considers within Indian territory.The Indian claim line in this sector extends to Finger 8, while the Chinese claim is up to Finger 4. The two are about 8km apart.China on Wednesday said that frontline troops of the Chinese and Indian armed forces have begun to disengage at the southern and northern banks of Pangong lake in line with the consensus reached at the 9th round of corps commander-level talks on January 24. No withdrawal of troops has taken place in the Finger Area on the northern bank, said one of the people cited above.Also Read | Rajnath Singh to make a statement in Rajya Sabha on Ladakh situation tomorrowIndia has pushed for comprehensive disengagement at all flashpoints and restoration of status quo ante of early April 2020 during the ongoing military talks with China.“The 10th round of military talks is expected to be held soon. Aspects related to disengagement will be discussed during the dialogue. Verification will be a critical aspect of the disengagement process, which is likely to take place sector-wise and in phases,” said an Indian official who asked not to be named.REALITY OR ILLUSION?Some experts warned that China could not be trusted, and India should be extremely cautious in dealing with the neighbour during the disengagement process.“They (the Chinese) are masters in creating optical illusion. Their withdrawal from southern heights of Pangong Tso could be a decoy move. They must withdraw to a distance from where swift build up is not possible. De-escalation of the military build-up to a sufficient depth is more critical than disengagement,” said Lieutenant General BS Jaswal (retd), also a former Northern Army commander.He said the Chinese forces must retreat to such a depth that doesn’t allow them to surprise the Indian Army and reoccupy strategic locations.“On the one hand, PLA is trying to show that it is withdrawing from the heights on the southern bank. On the other, China is building villages on our borders. It‘s a ploy as those villages house soldiers. These areas will serve as logistics hubs to support future ingress and will minimise troop build-up signatures,” Jaswal added.India has made all preparations to hold ground in Ladakh for an extended duration. On January 12, Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane said that the Indian Army was prepared to hold its ground in eastern Ladakh “for as long as it takes” to achieve national objectives in case the ongoing military and diplomatic talks with China are prolonged.“Resolving the border row is a priority. But nothing will be done in a hurry,” said a second official on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pullback-raises-hope-but-india-set-to-keep-close-eye-on-china-101612980667499.html
11-02-2021||India||Will collegium impasse cost India chance to get woman CJI in 2027?||A stalemate in the Supreme Court collegium over one name may cost the country the opportunity to have its first woman Chief Justice of India (CJI) in 2027.The five senior-most judges in the top court, who make up its collegium, have failed to arrive at a consensus on elevating justice Akil A Kureshi, currently chief justice of the Tripura high court, as a judge in the apex court, people familiar with the development said on condition of anonymity.The collegium, which is headed by CJI SA Bobde, has met at least three times in last one month to decide on names of judges for elevation to the apex court, but each time, according to these people, it has been unable to decide on any name simply because of the lack of consensus on justice Kureshi, the second senior most judge across all of India’s high courts.Also Read | Supreme Court stays HC order directing schools to give free gadgets to poor students, claim cost from Delhi govtAnd that has cast a long shadow over the timely elevation of justice BV Nagarathna from the Karnataka high court, who, if elevated now, could become India’s first woman CJI in 2027.The other judges in the collegium are justices NV Ramana, Rohinton F Nariman, Uday U Lalit and AM Khanwilkar. The people familiar with the matter added that one of the members of the collegium has insisted that justice Kureshi’s name be sent along with the names of others whose elevation is being recommended. With the collegium, which recommends names to the law ministry, not arriving at a consensus on his name, its other recommendations have been held up too.The law ministry has the option of sending the recommendations back to the collegium for review, but if the collegium resubmits them, it has to approve the names -- although there is no time frame mandated for this approval, which means it can delay the process indefinitely if it so desires.The top court currently has a vacancy of four judges out of the sanctioned strength of 34 judges. Five more judges will retire by the end of this year, including one out of the only two woman judges.Justice Kureshi’s current posting, in Tripura, also raised eyebrows when it was made. He was appointed as a judge in the Gujarat high court in 2004, and he is scheduled to retire in March 2022, at the age of 62. Supreme Court judges retire at 65, and judges get an automatic extension of three years once elevated to the apex court. As a judge in the Gujarat high court, justice Kureshi heard several important and politically sensitive cases, including the one concerning the killing of extortionist and gangster Sohrabuddin Sheikh in an encounter.In May 2019, the Supreme Court collegium recommended justice Kureshi ‘s appointment as the chief justice of the Madhya Pradesh high court, but the central government expressed its reservations. This prompted the collegium to modify its recommendation in September 2019 and transfer justice Kureshi to a different high court -- as chief justice of the Tripura high court, relatively a much smaller high court than Madhya Pradesh’s.The prolonged disagreement within the collegium has not only created uncertainty over elevation of justice Kureshi and other senior high court judges, but it has also led to a state of suspense whether India could get its first woman CJI, justice Nagarathna.If elevated without much delay, justice Nagarathna, who was appointed a judge of the Karnataka high court in February 2008, could succeed justice Surya Kant as CJI in February 2027, and occupy the post until 29 October, 2027. She will otherwise retire as a high court judge in October 2024. Justice Nagarathna’s father, Justice ES Venkataramiah, was CJI for a few months in 1989.HT has learnt that if the current impasse continues and the possible elevation of justice Nagarathna is delayed further, her chances of becoming the first woman CJI may get diminished further.Apart from her, the elevation of Punjab and Haryana high court chief justice Ravi Shanker Jha, whose parent high court is Madhya Pradesh, is also stuck owing to the dissonance over justice Kureshi’s elevation.Other names in the zone of consideration for their elevation to the SC include Calcutta high court chief justice TB Radhakrishnan, Gujarat high court chief justice Vikram Nath and Delhi high court chief justice DN Patel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-collegium-impasse-cost-india-chance-to-get-woman-cji-in-2027-101612980666758.html
11-02-2021||India||Chamoli glacier burst: 67 from UP still untraceable, 23 safe, 3 dead||Sixty-seven people from Uttar Pradesh remained untraceable till Wednesday evening while 23 others were located or rescued and three confirmed as dead after a glacier burst in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli district on February 7, relief commissioner Sanjay Goel saidUttar Pradesh ministers Suresh Rana, Dharam Singh Saini and Vijay Kashyap were camping at Uttarakhand’s Haridwar to coordinate relief and rescue work.Three deaths were confirmed, Rana said over the phone from Haridwar, adding two of them were from Lakhimpur Kheri and one from Aligarh.The dead included Awadhesh, 19, resident of Icchanagar village, and Suraj, 20, resident of Babupurwa village, both from Lakhimpur Kheri district’s Nigahasan tehsil, and Ajay Sharma, 32, resident of Aligarh district.“A massive exercise is underway to trace others. We had alerted all the district magistrates to issue appeals to anyone whose friends or relatives had travelled to Uttarakhand, especially Chamoli. Throughout the day, we have been coordinating and collating information,” Rana said.“Teams of the National Disaster Response Force, State Disaster Response Force, Indo-Tibetan Border Police and the Army is working round the clock. We are in touch with them and gathering information. Along with this, we are also collecting photographs of all the missing people from UP and checking with Uttarakhand authorities about their safety. Simultaneously, we are also besieged with calls from kin of the missing who are aware we are here,” Rana said.Goel said the emergency control room established by the state government in various districts received information about 93 missing people till Wednesday. Out of them, 23 were rescued or located and three were dead.Among the 67 missing people, 31 are from Lakhimpur Kheri, 12 from Saharanpur, five from Shravasti, four from Gorakhpur, two each from Kushinagar and Rae Bareli and one each from Amroha, Azamgarh, Bulandshahr, Chandauli, Deoria, Gautam Buddh Nagar, Mathura, Mirzapur, Moradabad, Shahjahanpur and Sonbhadra.A report from Lakhimpur Kheri said district magistrate Shailendra Kumar Singh confirmed the death of Awadhesh and Suraj. The bodies were recovered from the debris at the Tapovan hydro power project in Chamoli.Awadhesh’s body was brought to his village on Tuesday night, while the body of Suraj was expected to arrive early Thursday morning. Both of them had been working at the Tapovan project as labourers.Nighasan tehsil officials visited the family members of Awadhesh on Wednesday to assure them all assistance. The last rites of Awadhesh were performed at his native village on Wednesday.Rana, along with UP's Ayush minister Dharam Singh Saini and minister of state for revenue and flood control Vijay Kashyap, had rushed to the hill state on Tuesday to aid the relief and rescue work. The ministers, after meeting Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat, had camped in Haridwar.A team of Uttar Pradesh officials is also camping in Joshimath and Dehradun. They include administrative and police officials from Saharanpur, Bijnor, Lakhimpur Kheri and a flood expert from the relief commissioner’s office.Officials said many families panicked despite the fact that their relatives were more than 300 kilometres away from the site of disaster in ChamoliTake Imran Khan's father Ikram Hussain from Moradabad, for instance. Ikram, who does odd jobs for a living, feared for his son's safety after being unable to reach him since the news of the glacier burst spread.“I was unable to reach my son, his mobile was switched off and I panicked and called the helpline numbers. However, I later came to know that my son was about 350 kilometres away from the site of the glacier burst. It was just that since the power supply in the village was affected, he couldn't charge his phone and that's why we had become apprehensive,” he said.Similarly, Kusum, whose brother-in-law is in the army and posted some 350 kilometres away from the Chamoli site, said, since there was no connection with the army man for two days, the family panicked."But now all is well. He is safe," said Kusum.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chamoli-glacier-burst-67-from-up-still-untraceable-23-safe-3-dead-101612978766946.html
11-02-2021||India||UK variant of Covid-19 more cardiotoxic for younger adults, children: Doctor||The UK variant of Covid is more cardiotoxic, causing damage to heart muscles than the currently circulating strains as more positive cases and deaths caused by the infection are reported in the UK among the younger population and kids, said Dr Aarti Kinikar, head, paediatric ward, Sassoon General Hospital.She was speaking about rare and complicated Covid case studies during a presentation at the collector’s office on Wednesday.Dr Kinikar also said that the lesson learnt during the H1N1 pandemic came handy for Covid treatment of kids.Dr Kinikar who presented the first proven case of vertical transmission of Covid in the country, said, “The UK variant is found to be more cardiotoxic and younger adults infected with Covid are reporting cardiac arrest.”“More cases and deaths are being reported among younger adults and kids post the new UK variant which was detected last year. We need to read more and get more information as the virus is still evolving,” she said.Describing one such complicated case, Dr Kinikar said, “In this case, while the mother tested RT-PCR negative twice, the baby had tested positive for the same. The mother had reported flu-like symptoms following 38 weeks of gestation. On day seven after the delivery of the child, the mother tested negative through RT-PCR and also negative for antibodies while the baby tested RT-PCR positive for the swab samples collected through placenta and cord stump or umbilical cord.”“In the following RT-PCR tests the baby tested positive for the infection and tested negative for antibodies on day ten after birth while the mother has now tested positive for antibodies. Later on the 21st day, the baby tested positive for antibodies. This just shows that the mother had infected the child when she was asymptomatic and had caught the infection just a few weeks before the delivery,” she said.Antibodies are proteins which act as immune cells and are produced by the body to fight against invading viruses and bacteria. The presence of antibodies shows that the body has been fighting against the particular virus or ‘foreign invader’.Dr Kinikar said this was the first proven case of vertical transmission of Covid in the country which was later also published in an international journal.“We collected the swab samples from the placenta and the umbilical cord to establish vertical transmission which we did not do during the H1N1 pandemic. We learnt our lessons and so we did the required test this time. We have had several cases of vertical transmission thereafter in all the cases the baby was safe,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/uk-variant-of-covid-more-cardiotoxic-for-younger-adults-children-101612977128479.html
11-02-2021||NA||Highlights: Listening to farmers need of the hour, says Harsimrat Kaur||The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), the platform of farm unions spearheading the protests, will hold its full working committee meeting on Wednesday, in which its leaders would discuss ways to scale up their campaign. Leaders of the over two-month-long protest against three farm laws said on Tuesday that direct talks with the government were the only way to end the agitation for which, they added, the government must end “the atmosphere of enmity” by lifting restrictions on the Internet and restoring essential services, such as water and electricity, at protest sites. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, speaking in Parliament on Monday, had urged farmers to end their agitation and resume dialogue and assured them that a system of minimum floor prices for key crops would continue as usual. So far 11 rounds of talks between 40 farm leaders and the government have failed to resolve the impasse.Meanwhile, Punjabi actor-turned-activist Deep Sidhu, who was allegedly involved in the violence and vandalism at the Red Fort during the farmers’ tractor rally on January 26, was arrested by Delhi Police's special cell late on Monday night, officials said on Tuesday.Follow all the updates here:SKM says it will not allow toll collection in Rajasthan on Feb 12Toll collection won't be allowed in Rajasthan from Feb 12: Samyukta Kisan Morcha statement.The Samyukt Kisan Morcha is a statement said that toll collection will not be allowed in Rajasthan on February 12.Listening to farmers need of the hour, unfortunate PM didn't speak of 150 dead farmersIt is unfortunate that he said nothing for the 150 people who died (during farmers' agitation). Where would the ministers have gone in Punjab when they couldn't go to the borders of Delhi in the last 75 days?: Harsimrat Kaur Badal, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) MP https://t.co/QqoXhQ6I9HPunjab MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal says that listening to the wants of the farmers is the need of the hours. She also said it is unfortunate that PM Modi didn't speak anything about the 150 farmers who died during the protests, reports ANI.Congress stages walkout, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury says PM didn't discuss concerns over farmers' deathWe walked out because PM didn't discuss our concerns over farmers' death. He agreed that amendments are required in #FarmLaws, some states will be benefitted & some' won't. Why do you have to bring laws that won't be benefitting everyone? : Congress' Adhir Chowdhury in Lok Sabha https://t.co/TaZ9gS0g4V pic.twitter.com/btuPtcQ4RlAdhir Ranjan Chowdhruy says his party walked out of the Lok Sabha during the PM's speech because he didn't discuss about the concerns on farmers' deaths, reports ANI.Accepting/refusing farm laws is not compulsory, says PM ModiArgument has come - why did you provide when we didn't ask. Accepting/refusing depends on you. It's not compulsory. Nobody had demanded law against dowry, still, it was made for nation's progress. Laws were made against Triple Talaq & Child Marriage for progress: PM #FarmLaws pic.twitter.com/v08XAyylXCPM Modi says "Argument has come - why did you provide when we didn't ask. Accepting/refusing depends on you. It's not compulsory. Nobody had demanded law against dowry, still, it was made for nation's progress. Laws were made against Triple Talaq & Child Marriage for progress," reports ANI.Will scrap farm laws if voted to power, says Priyanka GandhiCongress will scrap new farm laws if voted to power, says Priyanka Gandhi Vadra at rally in UP's Saharanpur, reports PTI.Priyanka Gandhi Vadra addresses Kisan Panchayat in Saharanpurसहारनपुर में किसान पंचायत के दौरान उमड़ा जनसैलाब#JaiJawan_JaiKisan pic.twitter.com/WA9YZ7whQdCongress secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra addresses the Kisan Panchayat at Saharanpur, UP.MP Thol. Thirumavalavan joins farmers protesting at Delhi's Tikri borderதற்போது தில்லி - ஹரியானா எல்லையில் திகிரி பார்டரில் விவசாயிகளுடன் போராட்டத்தில்...#Thiruma_with_Farmers#FarmersProtest pic.twitter.com/Pleke9gIzdLeader of Tamil Nadu's Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi and Chidambaram constituency MP Thol. Thirumavalavan has joined the protesting farmers at Delhi's Tikri border.Congress' Priyanka Gandhi Vadra to address Saharanpur Kisan PanchayatHuge turn out at the venue of Kisaan Panchayat in Saharanpur UP !  @priyankagandhi Ji will be addressing the farmers #JaiJawan_JaiKisan #FarmersProtest pic.twitter.com/G8R4mI74nVNSUI national secretary Shauryaveer Singh says Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra will address the farmers gathered at the Saharanpur Kisan Panchayat.Police say Deep Sidhu being investigated in Red fort violence caseDeep Sidhu is in Delhi Police custody and is being interrogated. Investigation is underway, Red Fort violence case is being investigated: BK Singh, Joint CP, Crime#Delhi pic.twitter.com/wDibKdb2p8BK Singh, Joint Commissioner of Police, says Deep Sidhu is being investigated in the Red Fort violence case, reports ANI.Iqbal Singh, accused in 26th January Delhi violence case, arrestedIqbal Singh, an accused in 26th January Delhi violence case arrested by Special Cell from Hoshiarpur, Punjab last night. He carried a reward of ₹50,000 on his arrest: Delhi Police pic.twitter.com/T5ysMI4v77"Iqbal Singh, an accused in 26th January Delhi violence case arrested by Special Cell from Hoshiarpur, Punjab last night. He carried a reward of ₹50,000 on his arrest": Delhi PoliceSec 144 imposed in UP's Saharanpur ahead of kisan mahapanchayatAhead of kisan mahapanchayat, Section 144 was imposed in Uttar Pradesh's Saharanpur district on Wednesday, due to various reasons including upcoming festivities, Covid-19 pandemic and law and order. District Magistrate Saharanpur issued an order citing various reasons including upcoming festivities, the spread of Covid-19 pandemic and the possibility of violence by the anti-social elements in the state.Priyanka Gandhi Vadra to attend kisan mahapanchayat in UP's Saharanpur todayAmid the ongoing farmers protest at the Delhi borders, Congress General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra is set to attend kisan mahapanchayat in Uttar Pradesh's Saharanpur district on Wednesday. She will also offer prayers at Shakumbhra Devi Temple here before attending the programme.SKM to hold full working committee meeting todayA day ahead of a crucial meeting of farm unions, leaders of the over two-month-long protest against three farm laws said on Tuesday that direct talks with the government were the only way to end the agitation for which, they added, the government must end “the atmosphere of enmity” by lifting restrictions on the Internet and restoring essential services, such as water and electricity, at protest sites. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-live-farmer-stir-february-10-farmer-protest-hindustan-times-live-updates-101612922435327.html
11-02-2021||NA||Highlights: PM Modi receives call from Justin Trudeau on Covid-19 vaccines||India's tally of cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) is crossed 10.85 million on Wednesday as per figures released by the Union health ministry. In the preceding 24 hours, the ministry said, India recorded 11,067 new infections, taking the country's tally to its present status. Global tally of cases, meanwhile, is closing in on 107 million, while more than 2.3 million people have succumbed to the disease, according to Johns Hopkins University. The United States, India and Brazil, in that order, have the three highest Covid-19 tallies globally.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageIndia is also home to the largest vaccine drive against the pandemic and, according to the latest health ministry figures, more than 6.2 million have been inoculated till now. In the first phase, which began on January 16, healthcare workers are being inoculated; 30 million workers are to be vaccinated in this phase. Oxford University-AstraZeneca's Covishield and Bharat Biotech International Limited's Covaxin are being used for the immunisation drive here. Pfizer, which was the first to seek permission for emergency use authorisation (EUA) for its vaccine in India, has already withdrawn its application.Follow all the updates here:PM Modi receives call from Justin Trudeau on Covid-19 vaccinesPM Modi on Wednesday received a call from his Canadian counterpart Justin Trudeau on the exchange of Covid-19 vaccines between the two nations. This comes a few hours after the Ministry of External Affairs cleared 24 million doses on a commercial basis to 25 countries excluding Canada. The PM said in a tweet that the Canadian Prime Minister was assured that India would do its best to facilitate supplies of the vaccine.Tamil Nadu records 479 new cases of Covid-19, 5 fatalitiesTamil Nadu reports 479 new #COVID19 cases, 493 discharges and 5 deaths today.Total cases 8,43,209Total discharges 8,26,504Death toll 12,396Active cases 4,309 pic.twitter.com/Gnda7TmK5PAndhra Pradesh records 50 new cases of Covid-19Andhra Pradesh reports 50 new #COVID19 cases and 121 recoveries in the last 24 hours.Total cases 8,88,605Total recoveries 8,80,599Death toll 7,161Active cases 845 pic.twitter.com/bbylsUOFULDelhi to increase Covid-19 vaccination sites from 183 to 265Delhi is all scheduled to increased the number of Covid-19 vaccination sites from the existing 183 to 265, reported ANI. The planned 82 vaccination sites will become operational from February 11.Key Facts from Delhi' Covid-19 battleDelhi is the sole region in the country to witness three distinct waves of Covid-19. On February 9 the national capital witnessed zero deaths for the first time since the pandemic started.Maharashtra records 3,451 new cases of Covid-19, 30 fatalitiesMaharashtra reports 3,451 new COVID-19 cases, 2,421 discharges, and 30 deaths in the last 24 hours, as per State Health DepartmentTotal cases: 20,52,253Total recoveries: 19,63,946Active cases: 35,633Death toll: 51,390 pic.twitter.com/XctaroQBugTotal hospitalisations due to vaccination is 30 till date: health ministryThe health ministry during a press briefing on Wednesday said that a total of 30 individuals have been hospitalised following inoculations. Adding that 9 of them have lost their lives while 19 have been discharged, and 2 individuals are currently under treatment.68 lakh individuals have been vaccinated so far, says health ministryThe Union health ministry said in a press briefing on Wednesday that 68 lakh individuals have been inoculated against Covid-19 in the country so far. Out of which 56,65,172 are healthcare workers and 11,61,726 frontline workers.Delhi records 127 new Covid-19 cases, 2 fatalitiesDelhi reports 127 new #COVID19 cases, 131 recoveries & 2 deaths reported in Delhi in the last 24 hours.Total cases 6,36,387Total recoveries 6,24,457Death toll 10,884Active cases 1046 pic.twitter.com/osdXcDQo4BA day after recording zero fatalities Delhi registered two new fatalities taking the death toll to 10,884 on Wednesday, reported ANI. 127 new cases of Covid-19 were also registered in the same time frame.Odisha records 92 new cases of Covid-19Odisha's Covid-19 tally reached to 3,35,889 on Wednesday after 92 more people tested positive for the coronavirus, reported news agency PTI.PM Modi praises Covid warriors in ParliamentThe Prime Minister during the ongoing Parliamentary session praised Covid warriors during his Motion of thanks on the President’s address"Our doctors, nurses, Covid warriors, Safai Karamcharis, those who drove ambulances...such people and so many others became manifestations of the divine who strengthened India's fight against the global pandemic" the PM said in the Parliament.India has tested 20,33,24,655 samples tested upto February 09, 2021#CoronaVirusUpdates:#COVID19 testing status update:@ICMRDELHI stated that 20,33,24,655 samples tested upto February 09, 20217,36,903 sample tested on February 09, 2021#StaySafe #IndiaWillWin #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/F9prdPRpxBPrince Charles administered first dose of Covid-19 vaccinePrince Charles and the Duchess of Cornwall have been administered their first shots of the Covid-19 vaccine, reported the Associated Press. The 72-year-old heir to the throne and his 73 year old wife were vaccinated under the UK government's efforts to vaccinate the vulnerable population.South Africa to administer J&J's Covid-19 vaccine instead of AstraZeneca'sSouth Africa's health minister Zweli Mkhize announced that the country would administer the use of the unapproved Johnson & Johnson's Covid-19 vaccine instead of AstraZeneca's, citing that the latter "does not prevent mild to moderate disease” of the variant that has spread widely in South Africa," reports AP.Click here to read moreHealth ministry says 33 states, UTs have less than 5,000 active Covid-19 cases#Unite2FightCorona Following a steady downward slope, India’s Active Caseload down to 1.41 Lakh (1,41,511).Less than 5,000 Active Cases in 33 States/UTs.https://t.co/mIgkXV7mq5 pic.twitter.com/ZUel2uGQFPMinistry of health and family welfare has said that 33 states, Union territories in India have less than 5,000 active Covid-19 cases.Jharkhand reports 61 new Covid-19 cases, tally reaches 1,19,116 casesJharkhand reported 61 new Covid-19 cases and no new fatalities, taking the state's tally to 1,19,116 cases and 1,078 deaths, a health official said.Active cases now stand at 464 and a total of 1,17,574 patients have recovered.Also, 1,40,114 healthcare workers have been administered the Covid-19 vaccine in the state, reports PTI.Brazil reports more than 50,000 new Covid-19 cases, 1,350 deathsWith 51,486 new Covid-19 cases and 1,350 deaths, Brazil's tally reached 95,99,565 cases and 2,33,520 deaths, according to the government. The country has reported more than 1,000 single-day deaths for the 20th consecutive day.More than four million people have been vaccinated in the country, reports ANI.India's Covid-19 tally reaches 1,08,58,371 confirmed cases, recovery rate at 97%#CoronaVirusUpdates: 📍Total #COVID19 Cases in India (as on February 10, 2021)▶️97.27% Cured/Discharged/Migrated (1,05,61,608)▶️1.30% Active cases (1,41,511)▶️1.43% Deaths (1,55,252)Total COVID-19 confirmed cases = Cured/Discharged/Migrated+Active cases+Deaths pic.twitter.com/N22xOZuCBoAccording to government data, total confirmed Covid-19 cases in India reached 1,08,58,371 cases and the overall recovery rate reached 97.27 per cent.Pfizer's Covid-19 vaccine provides two-thirds protection, data from UK vaccination drive suggestsA single dose of the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine provides two-thirds protection against the Covid-19 disease, according to the data available with the UK government from the country's vaccination drive, reports Bloomberg.Click here to read more203,324,655 samples tested for Covid-19: ICMR203,324,655 samples tested for Covid-19 up to 9th February. Of these, 7,36,903 samples were tested yesterday: Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)Over 6.6 million vaccinated in India thus farAs per the latest health ministry figures, 6,611,561 vaccinations have taken place in India thus far.India records over 11,000 new Covid-19 cases, 94 deathsIndia records 11,067 new Covid-19 cases as tally rises to 10,858,371. Death toll at 155,252 with 94 more deaths.Mexico's Covid-19 death toll rises to 168,432Mexico's health ministry on Tuesday reported 1,701 new deaths from Covid-19, bringing the total to 168,432.China records 14 new Covid-19 casesChina recorded 14 new Covid-19 cases on February 9, same as on a day ago. National tally reaches 89,734 while death toll stays at 4,636.'Made in India' vaccines reach Barbados, Dominica'Made in India' vaccines reach Barbados and Dominica, tweets external affairs minister S Jaishankar.Nearly 2 million receive first vaccine dose in FranceFrench health ministry on Tuesday said that 1.987 million people had received first doses of Covid-19 vaccine, while 366,733 second doses have been administered thus far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-india-world-latest-news-covid-19-death-toll-february-10-2021-101612921073184.html
11-02-2021||Today's||The DNA bill will cement a disturbing link between tech and policing||Recently, the parliamentary committee on science and technology submitted its report on the DNA Technology (Use and Application) Regulation bill with a set of recommendations.The purpose of the bill is to regulate the use of DNA information for establishing the identity of people. An index is sought to be created and maintained by national and regional “DNA banks”. The indices are meant for criminals, undertrials, missing and deceased persons. The bill allows different kinds of operations to be performed on such genetic material. One of the common applications of DNA technology is to create profiles of people using nails, hair, swabs and so on. Bodily types will be compared, categorised, homogenised and excluded, along with the inferences drawn from these divisions.These profiles are then meant to guide law enforcement in investigations. Although the technology has been used (without proper regulation) under criminal procedure codes, the bill will institutionalise its use within the justice system with the maintenance of databases.Experts believe that the bill leaves ample room for misuse, and that its consent provisions are not strong. A more fundamental concern is that DNA technology for identification derives from antiquated and discredited methods. Scientists confirm that much of DNA analysis involving statistical modelling algorithms embed judgments of the people behind the creation of these tools. This means that DNA samples collected are used to statistically create composites of “types” of people — racial, ethnic and so on. These methods, in their composition of types, in the inferences drawn, and the mathematical fact of computing averages to arrive at the estimates of types, have the scope for giving a scientific varnish to existing social and cultural bias.Every new advancement in technology does not necessarily ensure automatic justice delivery, especially when our criminal justice system is one of the main modes of State repression. We have seen activists, students and journalists face police excesses. Where CCTV evidence contradicts official accounts, it has been ignored, or has been explicitly destroyed in cases where it might implicate the police. Imagine the same spaces being classified under the bill as “crime scenes” and the DNA of persons from these sites included within indices maintained by the State. This is what the bill will facilitate as standard procedure.It potentially entrenches systemic issues of access to justice and unequal socio-economic status leading to the persecution of a disproportionate number of disadvantaged people.Another question is that of openness. Already, denial of access to DNA laboratory records is affecting the rights of individuals in defending themselves, as highlighted by the work of Project 39A. With a new system of indexing DNA profiles of undertrials, criminals, missing and deceased persons, it becomes all the more important to think about the openness of the algorithmic techniques used in these methods. With no shield in the form of data protection and privacy laws, or the cross-dialogue with anti-discrimination laws like SC/ST Prevention of Atrocities Act, we are potentially moving towards automating, invisibilising and legitimising already existing biases in society, all in the name of technology.The DNA profiling bill follows a long list of bills that are being introduced without the data protection law in place. In any case, what kinds of protections would a data protection bill allow? Possibly not a lot more, as government use of data for law enforcement is already grounds for wide exemption within the last known draft of the data protection bill. A data protection bill would not allay any concerns about biological surveillance and an imminent algorithmic turn in criminology.The DNA bill is not just about regulating a scientific method. It cements a relationship between technology and policing in a direction that privileges discrimination. It does not consider the lessons of the last decade in how automated classification systems sustain caste, class and ethnic anxieties, and will substitute the complicated navigation of personal identity with genetic determinism.Nayantara Ranganathan is a researcher and lawyer interested in the politics and culture of technologiesThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-dna-bill-will-cement-a-disturbing-link-between-tech-and-policing-101612965364811.html
11-02-2021||Today's||Biden’s foreign policy lacks strategic clarity||Last week, the newly elected president of the United States (US), Joe Biden, delivered his first foreign policy speech, with the aim of resetting America’s foreign policy agenda after four years of Donald Trump’s disruption. Biden’s choice of the State Department as the venue for his address was a show of support to the foreign service bureaucracy, and a signal to the world that standard diplomatic engagement and multilateralism would be the preferred mode of operation.Announcing “America is back” and declaring the return of diplomacy in US foreign policy, Biden was perhaps hoping to underscore the divergences with his predecessor. But for all the rhetoric, the speech was a mélange of the Democratic Party’s standard talking points without a cohesive agenda for the changing global realities. The fact that China was hardly mentioned in his remarks and that Russia remained the obsession was also a reminder of how sections of the American establishment are still struggling to come to terms with the post-Cold War period.Trying to strike an explicit contrast with Trump on Russia, Biden stated: “I made it clear to President [Vladimir] Putin, in a manner very different from my predecessor, that the days of the United States rolling over in the face of Russia’s aggressive actions… are over.” Underlining his intent “to raise the cost to Russia and defend our vital interests,” Biden linked it to America’s democratic values and the need to rebuild “the muscles of democratic alliances that have atrophied from four years of neglect”. But the Trump administration, for all of Trump’s fondness for Putin, sanctioned Russia across the spectrum for the last four years. As such, it is not entirely clear what else Biden will be able to do.Other major announcements from Biden included ending all support for Saudi Arabia’s offensive operations in Yemen, urging Myanmar’s military leaders to halt their coup, freezing troop redeployments from Germany, raising the cap for refugees allowed into the US from 15,000 for this fiscal year — the lowest since 1980 — to up to 125,000, and reaffirming US support for LGBTQ rights worldwide. Secretary of Defence Lloyd Austin is to conduct a “global force posture review” so as to ensure America’s “military footprint is appropriately aligned with our foreign policy and national security priorities”. Biden also underlined his administration’s recent decisions of elevating cyber by appointing the first national deputy security adviser for cyber and emerging technology, integrating climate as a central facet of national diplomacy, and rejoining the World Health Organization and the Paris climate agreement.But some key issues were conspicuous either by their absence or in their framing. Iran was not mentioned, nor were the nuclear negotiations, while the broader “Middle East” geopolitical terrain was also not invoked, perhaps underscoring a shift away from the region for American foreign policy priorities.And then there was China. Biden argued that America will confront Beijing’s “economic abuses, counter its aggressive, coercive action to push back on China’s attack on human rights, intellectual property, and global governance”. But how this will be done, once again, remains in the realm of speculation. Biden is right that China’s President Xi Jinping doesn’t have “a democratic, small D, bone in his body” and his Secretary of State is also right in letting Beijing know that Washington “will continue to stand up for human rights and democratic values, including in Xinjiang, Tibet and Hong Kong”. But if the only instrumentality they can come up with is “international rules of the road”, then it doesn’t generate much confidence in Biden’s ability to shore up a credible posture vis-à-vis an increasingly confident China.One area where Trump’s imprint remains palpable is in making American foreign policy viable for ordinary Americans. On that, Biden was categorical: “There’s no longer a bright line between foreign and domestic policy. Every action taken in our conduct abroad, we must take with American working families in mind.” His national security adviser Jake Sullivan was equally emphatic when he suggested that “everything” the Biden administration does when it comes to foreign policy will be examined as to whether it makes life “better, safer and easier for working families,” arguing that US foreign policy has no chance of succeeding unless the middle class sees it advancing its own interests. So, for all the talk of America being back, its global footprint will be a function of the domestic consensus, which is fraying rapidly.And as a consequence, America’s global interlocutors are left wondering what all the fuss is about of Biden bringing America back to the global stage. On Russia, there is no clarity on what Washington can do apart from its rhetorical flourishes. In Myanmar, America’s sanctimonious calls for sanctions and isolation will only make China a more potent player. On China, where actually America’s leadership has been pretty strong under Trump, platitudes won’t work anymore. In the Indo-Pacific, regional powers have to respond to China’s rise in real-time. They have little time or patience for Biden’s inability to articulate a coherent China policy.Biden’s first foreign policy speech was certainly in tune with the changing domestic political dynamic in the US. But its lack of a strategic vision will be concerning to America’s partners. For all his desire to forge a “united front” against Beijing, Biden has not been able to articulate a compelling vision of America’s role in the world so far. Strategic patience is in short supply around the world today.Harsh V Pant is professor, King’s College London, and director of studies, Observer Research Foundation, New DelhiThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/bidens-foreign-policy-lacks-strategic-clarity-101612965307012.html
11-02-2021||Editorials||The right place of the border dispute | HT Editorial||In an article, titled China and the World in the Year of the Ox, published on a website, The Policy Chronicle, China’s ambassador to India, Sun Weidong, has written that the two countries should “put the boundary dispute in the appropriate place in bilateral relations, address differences in a rational and constructive manner, and not allow differences to become disputes”. The core argument of the piece is that the cooperative element of the India-China relationship outweighs the areas of differences, common interests are greater than inconsistencies, and the two sides should respect each other, enhance mutual trust, and shelve differences while meeting each other halfway.As reasonable as this sounds, China is wrong. The appropriate place of the border dispute is at the centre of the relationship at this juncture. Yes, India has recognised — at least since 1988 — that there is no easy resolution of the border dispute. That is why both countries evolved a framework to keep peace at the border, while maintaining their respective stated positions on it, and deepening other elements of the bilateral ties. The unilateral and unprovoked Chinese aggression at the border in eastern Ladakh, the clash at Galwan, and the prolonged military stand-off, however, have changed things. If the border is not peaceful, if India’s territorial integrity is at stake, and if Indian lives have been lost, then no Indian government can proceed with the relationship in business-as-usual mode.If China wants to repair overall ties, there is a simple solution. In the Year of the Ox, it can disengage, demobilise and restore status quo ante at the Line of Actual Control. Reports of disengagement from the Pangong Tso area on Wednesday evening are positive — but India must carefully monitor whether Beijing translates words into meaningful action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-right-place-of-the-border-dispute-hteditorial-101612965367895.html
11-02-2021||Editorials||PM’s outreach in the House | HT Editorial||On Tuesday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi bid farewell to four retiring members of the Rajya Sabha, including senior Congress leader, former Union minister and the leader of the Opposition in the House, Ghulam Nabi Azad. The PM broke down while tracing his own relationship with Mr Azad, in particular the time when as chief minister of Jammu and Kashmir, Mr Azad had called Mr Modi, who was then Gujarat chief minister, to inform him about the terror attack on Gujarati tourists in the Valley.The episode can be read in two ways. For one — and this is laudable — it indicates that despite the bitter political exchanges that mark proceedings in the House or on television screens during debates, there remains personal warmth and camaraderie between top leaders across the spectrum. A degree of elite harmony is essential for the smooth functioning of democratic institutions. As personal relations have become a victim of political rivalries, Indian democracy has suffered, polarisation has deepened, ugliness has seeped into the discourse, and government-Opposition communication and trust have broken down. Mr Modi’s attempt to convey personal warmth and show that politics need not just be contentious is a good step.But, at the same time, there appears to be a political subtext in the PM’s outreach. At a time when there is a deepening Hindu-Muslim communal rift as well as trust deficit between the Indian State and the Kashmiri street, was the PM reaching out to Azad — a tall nationalist Muslim leader from Jammu and Kashmir — to send a broader signal of reconciliation to minorities in Kashmir and beyond? At a time when relations between the treasury and Opposition benches are bitter, was the PM — by referring to not just Mr Azad but also speaking of Sharad Pawar with respect — sending a message to the House to find a new mechanism to work together? And at a time when Mr Azad is a prominent dissenter within the Congress, and he remains active politically, was the PM encouraging the G-23, as the group of dissident letter writers in the Congress has come to be known, to persist? Irrespective of motivation, Parliament was enriched by a rare display of cordiality.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/pms-outreach-in-the-house-hteditorial-101612965366385.html
