12-02-2021||Mumbai||Covid-19 vaccination drive sees 50.25% turnout in Maharashtra||Despite the rise in the number of Covid-19 cases in the state and city, the response to the vaccination drive has been dwindling in Maharashtra. After reporting a daily caseload of less than 3,000 for more than 20 days, the state has been breaching the mark for the past three days. On Friday, the state saw 3,670 cases, taking the tally to 2,056,575 and toll to 51,451, with 36 new deaths. Mumbai too reported more than 500 cases for the third day in a row, after staying below the mark for more than two weeks. With 599 new cases, the city’s tally touched 312,902 and toll 11,409 with 4 new deaths. The vaccination drive saw 50.25% turnout on Friday, as 40,000 citizens got inoculated at 796 vaccination centres that have the target of 100 beneficiaries each. With 23,012 vaccinations, frontline workers outnumbered health care workers (16,988) in daily vaccination on Friday. On Friday, the BMC vaccinated 6,361 beneficiaries in Mumbai that included 2,382 health care workers and 3,979 frontline workers. Overall, in the last one month the BMC has vaccinated 107,725 vaccine beneficiaries. As of February 9, the state has 1,054,822 healthcare and 691,222 frontline workers registered on CoWIN app. The total number of beneficiaries to receive the shots stands at 648,573, including 112,952 frontline workers. A total of 5,524 were given Covaxin, while remaining were given Covishield doses. The initial rate of the vaccination was over 60% after the launch on January 16 and dropped to below 50% over last few weeks even as the number of centres improved from 285 on the day of launch. Maharashtra has 19,72,400 shots of the Covaxin (1,70,400) and Covishield (18,02,000) vaccine provided by the Centre. “We have been vaccinating around 40,000 beneficiaries daily. We expect the response from the healthcare workers to improve and will have to gear up the drive. The turnout is high in districts where our department has strictly implemented it. We have been taken the vaccination drive very seriously and if the turnout remains the same, we will have to launch an awareness drive,” said state health minister Rajesh Tope. According to the officials from Mantralaya, the state health department’s approach has been sluggish towards the drive. “Maharashtra is lagging behind other states. A few doctors who lead the department have themselves not taken the vaccine,” an officer who is closely associated with the drive said requesting anonymity. Dr Shashank Joshi, who is part of the task force constituted for the vaccination, said, “There is hesitancy among doctors and health care workers because of the fear about immunogenicity and tests of the vaccine. There should be a more aggressive programme for awareness among beneficiaries. The Centre should decentralise the drive by roping in private sector and bringing more transparency.” The state will start giving the second dose to the beneficiaries from Monday. The state is waiting for the Central guidelines to begin the round of second dose to healthcare worker who have completed the mandatory period of 28 days from the first shot. “We are beginning it from Monday. We expect the guidelines by then,” said Dr Dilip Patil, state immunisation officer. The BMC on Friday said the second dosage of Covid-19 vaccination will start in Mumbai from Monday, instead of the earlier plan to start it from Saturday. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, said, “We are planning to complete the cycle of 28 days that will happen on Saturday. After this, the second dosage will be administered starting Monday.” The state has 31,474 active cases after 2,422 were discharged from hospitals. The recovery rate stands at 95.91%, while its case fatality rate stands at 2.5%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid19-vaccination-drive-sees-50-25-turnout-in-maharashtra-101613154269125.html
12-02-2021||Pune||Externed criminal arrested with firearm in Pune||Pune: The Bharati Vidyapeeth police have arrested an externed criminal who was threatening residents with a countrymade firearm and chopper on Wednesday. According to the police, the accused has been identified as Pappu alias Praveen Ananta Yenpure , a resident of Ambegaon Khurd, with criminal record. He had been externed from the city and Pimpri-Chinchwad commissionerate limits for two years from April 20, 2019. Police staffers Sarfaraz Deshmukh and Abhijit Jadhav received a tip-off that the criminal was loitering in the area. On being apprehended and frisked, a live cartridge, firearm and chopper were recovered from his possession. Meanwhile, a case under the Arms Act has been lodged against the accused and different sections of Maharashtra Police Act have been invoked against the accused. The action was taken under the guidance of police zonal commissioner Sagar Patil. PSI Nitin Shinde is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/externed-criminal-arrested-with-firearm-in-pune-101613153847430.html
12-02-2021||Mumbai||New Maharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole vows to take party to the top||Maharashtra Congress on Friday accused the Central government of being anti-people and anti-farmer. The party passed a resolution, from the historic August Kranti Maidan, giving a call of ‘Modi Sarkar Chale Jao’ (Modi Government Go Away) and vowed to make Congress, a number one party in the state.Newly appointed state president of the party Nana Patole took charge from his predecessor and state revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat on Friday. Before the public rally, the resolution was passed in a meeting of key leaders at Gokuldas Tejpal Hall of the party.The resolution stated, “The [Narendra] Modi government is working in a dictatorial manner and is crushing the democratic, constitutional and parliamentary values. It has been working for a few industrialists instead of the common people of the country. Demonetisation, GST and lockdown were imposed without any preparations and hurt the economy, resulting in massive unemployment. The farmers of the country have been destroyed by passing the black legislations. The Modi government has exploited almost all the sections of the society in the last six years of its stint. The government has lost the moral right to continue in power and thus we are passing the resolution to give a call of ‘Modi Sarkar Chale Jao’.”Patole, after taking charge, said that the Modi government has started selling off public sector undertakings, but added that they will not allow touching any such entity in the state. “Prime Minister Modi has not kept his promises made before elected to the post. He had been talking about the common man, improving the value of Indian rupee and bringing down the price of the fuel. He has succeeded in nothing. I am taking charge to take away Narendra Modi’s charge as prime minister,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/new-maharashtra-congress-chief-nana-patole-vows-to-take-party-to-the-top-101613153488160.html
12-02-2021||Other||Ludhiana Club polls for 13 posts on February 13||The elections for 16 executive committee posts of Ludhiana Club will be conducted on Saturday. For the first time in 14 years, the elections will be held through voting, as office-bearers were previously elected unanimously. Voting will be held through ballot papers from 10am to 5pm at the club premises.Liquor baron Kewal Chhabra, who has held the post of president for the last 14 years, will be challenged by Brij Mohan Gupta.For the post of vice-president Dr Manmohan Singh Chauhan is contesting against VK Sahi; for general secretary, KL Arora and Umesh Wadhwa are in the fray, while Rakesh Gupta and Gurdip Makkar are contesting for the post of treasurer. For bar secretary, Ishar Gupta is up against Rajesh Mago.For eight other posts of executive membership, Suresh Wadhwa, Pawan Sehgal, Swatantar Sood, Kuldeep Singh Dua, Amrish Bansal, Surinder Goel, Suraj Mohan, Suraj Parkash, Bal Krishan Baweja and Gautam Malhotra are in the fray. Meanwhile, Vijay Goel, Sanjay Kapoor and and Vijay Gaba have been elected unanimously as joint, culture/sports and mess secretaries, respectively. The executive committee will be elected for a tenure of three years. Returning Officer for the elections, Bir Pal Singh (retired PCS officer), said, “Arrangements are being made to conduct elections in a fair and transparent manner and Covid safety guidelines will be followed. There are around 1,000 members, but only those who have cleared their dues with the club, are allowed to vote. Till now, over 750 members have received NOCs, while many others are in the process of submitting dues. The NOC can also be obtained by clearing the dues on Saturday. The result of the elections will be announced in the evening.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-club-polls-for-13-posts-on-february-13-101613153428003.html
12-02-2021||Mumbai||Byculla zoo to get hospital; underwater gallery for reptile enclosures||The Veermata Jijabai Bhosale Udyan or Byculla zoo will now get it’s very own veterinary hospital for large animals, within the zoo premises, complete with an operation theatre room, incubators, and X-ray rooms. This plan is a part of a new project taken up at the zoo, which includes the construction of an underwater viewing facility for alligators and crocodiles. The zoo presently has an in-house veterinary clinic for small animals and birds.Dr Sanjay Tripathi, director of the zoo said, “As part of the zoo expansion plan, we will bring in many exotic large animals, such as giraffe even. The hospital is being made in preparation for that. The underwater viewing gallery for ghariyal (reptiles) is going to be one of the major attractions. As per the design conceptualised now, there will be a steep slope that will take tourists to an underwater viewing area.”Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) recently floated tenders for this project. The cost of the project is ₹50 crore, and includes other construction works in the zoo premises, such as animal holdings for the reptiles, construction of water bodies with 10 lakh litre capacity, landscaping work, quarantine facility for aquatic, arboreal and territorial work, and other plumbing electric work.As part of phase 3 of the zoo expansion project, BMC will bring in animals such as giraffe, zebra, white lion, black jaguar, chimpanzees, oryx, emu, cassowary, ostrich, okapi, ringtail lemur, and cheetah. Phase-3 of the work includes building an aviary for exotic bird species. In the first phase, BMC had brought eight Humboldt penguins to the zoo. The second phase which is underway includes the construction of 17 animal enclosures in the 53-acre zoo premises. The third phase includes the construction of the 15 enclosures for exotic animal species in the adjoining 7-acre plot.Zoo to reopen from MondayThe Byculla zoo will reopen for public from Monday February 15, after 11 months of remaining closed owing to the lockdown due to covid-19. Municipal Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal on Friday approved the zoo authorities’ proposal for reopening the zoo. The operational timings of the zoo will remain the same—between 9.30am and 6pm.In a statement issued on Friday, BMC urged senior citizens, pregnant women, and children below five years of age to avoid visiting the zoo, or take extra care during their visit. Wearing of masks is compulsory for entry into the zoo premises, vehicles entering the premises will be disinfected at the entrance. BMC will install a public announcement system throughout the premises for crowd control and to ensure social distancing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/byculla-zoo-to-get-hospital-underwater-gallery-for-reptile-enclosures-101613153067918.html
12-02-2021||Other||Delhi police personnel posted at Tikri assaulted by unknown men||New DelhiA Delhi policeman was injured after he was assaulted on Friday evening, by unidentified persons, near the Tikri border, where thousands of farmers from Punjab and Haryana have been protesting against three contentious farm laws passed by the Parliament in September last year. It was not immediately known if the attackers were protesters, locals, or criminals. The injured policeman was admitted to a nearby hospital. A first information report (FIR) was being registered in connection with the incident, police said.Additional deputy commissioner of police (outer district) was not available for sharing details about the assault on the policeman despite repeated calls and a message being sent to him. Delhi Police have increased security at the three borders — Tikri, Singhu and Ghazipur— since the violence on January 26 when protesting farmers clashed with security personnel, often fighting pitched battles. At least 394 police personnel and 10 farmers were injured during the Republic Day’s tractor rally violence, after what police claimed protesting farmers deviated from the pre-approved routes of the rally. The protesters clashed with the police they tried stopping farmers from entering parts of Central and New Delhi. Many protesters later that day had managed to storm into Red Fort and hoisted two flags — one religious and the other of the farmers’ union at the ASI protected structure. Police have arrested 143 persons for the violence that happened in different parts of the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-police-personnel-posted-at-tikri-assaulted-by-unknown-men-101613153009211.html
12-02-2021||Delhi||Two held for snatching||Delhi Police arrested two men for allegedly snatching mobile phones on the city roads.Police identified the two men as Jamia Nagar residents Matin Ashraf and Akram who worked as air conditioner technicians. Police said they recovered a scooter and three stolen phones from the suspects.Deputy Commissioner of Police (southeast) R P Meena said they received a distress call from a man on Musafir Road, near New Friends Colony, on January 21. He claimed that two men on a scooter snatched his phone.Police said their investigation pointed to the duo’s involvement. “We then arrested the two men,” said DCP Meena, adding that Akram had 12 cases of theft and snatching against him and Ashraf had six similar cases against him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/two-held-for-snatching-101613153008554.html
12-02-2021||Mumbai||Amid realty sector slowdown, Cidco sells 19 plots in Navi Mumbai for ₹677 crore||Despite the realty slowdown, builders continue to buy land at high rates as was evident when the City and Industrial Development Corporation (Cidco) on Friday sold 19 plots for ₹677 crore.The Maharashtra Chambers of Housing Industry (MCHI), an association of builders, has described the sales as “costly and impractical”.The costliest deal was a 5,858.85 square metre Sanpada plot which was sold for ₹153 crore.Priya Ratambe, public relations officer, Cidco, said it was the best deal for the corporation. “Despite the slowdown, our plots got a fabulous response and we fetched good prices,” said Ratambe.MCHI called the sales speculative deals which do not augur well for the realty sector. “There are a lot of projects coming up in Navi Mumbai, especially in New Panvel. Such exorbitant pricing tends to spoil the market conditions and sends the wrong signals regarding the realty market,” said Manohar Shroff, senior vice-president, MCHI (Navi Mumbai).Real estate research firm Liases Foras, while commenting on the sale of the plot for ₹153 crore, said that only an ultra-luxury project is possible on that land. “The builder can construct only ultra-luxury apartments costing more than ₹2 crore. He will find it difficult to sell them in the present conditions where the luxury market has taken a huge hit,” said Pankaj Kapoor, managing director, Liases Foras.This is Cidco’s third auction in the last one month. Two weeks back, it was able to sell four plots worth ₹56 crore, and a month back, it garnered ₹56 crore from its auction of 12 row-house plots.The city of Navi Mumbai, created to decongest Mumbai, has excellent connectivity and infrastructure. For years, builders, supported by investors, have purchased land at exorbitant prices, resulting in a speculative realty market.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/amid-realty-sector-slowdown-cidco-sells-19-plots-in-navi-mumbai-for-677-crore-101613152770582.html
12-02-2021||Delhi||Schools focused on learning story||New Delhi: With less than three months to go for the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) board examination for students of classes 10 and 12, teachers and principals of Delhi government schools are concerned about low-scoring children who were promoted from classes 9 and 11 as per a revised assessment policy involving scores based on assignment and grace marks. The move led to a significant increase in pass percentages for students of classes 9 and 11. In May last year, HT had reported that the pass percentage in class 9 had gone up from 58.6% in the previous academic session to 64.5%. For class 11, this number went from 84.8% to 96.2%. Awadhesh Kumar Jha, head of Sarvodaya co-ed Vidyalaya in Rohini Sector 8, said most schools, including his, are engaging in targeted intervention for these students. “Children who were promoted on the basis of revised promotion policy are mostly the same ones who weren’t able to attend online classes during the pandemic and don’t attend offline classes even now. They are the ones that need focused attention.” Last year following the Covid-19 lockdown, the Delhi government had devised a one-time revised promotion policy for students of class 9 and 11 where students were promoted using grace marks and assignments. Students who could not appear for their exams either due to the pandemic or the Delhi riots were given marks proportional to their mid-term results as well. A senior education department official, who asked not be named, said, “These students are on the radar of our teachers and targeted interventions are being made for their learning. Schools have made a list of these students and are monitoring their performance and attendance regularly. Apart from sufficient writing practice and regular tests, teachers are focusing on chapters or lessons which will help the students score easily. In addition to this, teachers have ‘adopted’ such students and will be looking after the performance of that particular student under them along with their mental well-being.” In addition to these, schools and teachers have devised their own methods to address the learning gaps. For instance, Jha said he had divided students into two groups on the basis of how they were promoted — via grace marks or assignment. “This helped teachers focus their attention to a homogenous group. We are now planning to print three sets of sample papers prepared by the education department for a particular subject, write the answers on those papers, and distribute among these students. Internal tests on these papers will ensure that students are able to retain the information and perform well in their board exams,” he said. Bijesh Kumar Sharma, principal of Shaheed Hemu Kalani Sarvodaya Bal Vidyalaya, said the school had also taken help from the local community. “We have a lot of Afghan students who face language issues, or visually-impaired children who need assistance. Since we have been involved with the local community for the past few years, we roped in homemakers, volunteers, or members of resident welfare associations or non-governmental organisations (NGOs) who could help us in the matter,” he said. Several principals said that many among these students were not attending school even now — making it even more difficult for teachers. Mudassir Jahan, head of school at Sarvodaya Kanya Vidyalaya at Noor Nagar, said, “The attendance for these students is also low and we are trying to get them to school. We have made announcements through local mosques, asking students to attend for classes. The challenge here is that these students have to be motivated more than others to even attend school. Even in class 9 or previous classes, they reported a low attendance record affecting their academic performance.” CBSE schools reopening On Thursday, CBSE said it would be “appropriate” to start the 2021-22 academic session from April 1 as per the feasibility of state governments. A senior education department official had said that it would not be feasible as mid-term exams in Delhi government schools are slated to continue till mid-April. Sukhbir Singh Yadav, president of Vice and Principals’ Association of Delhi, said, “In addition to mid-terms which will continue till mid-April, schools have to follow social distancing for students of class 9 to 12. Classes have been split into multiple batches and all our rooms are being used for these purposes. Calling other classes from April 1 won’t be feasible. What we can do is complete the admission process by then and start schools in July once board exams are also completed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/schools-focused-on-learning-story-101613152648605.html
12-02-2021||Other||BJP issues show cause notice to legislator for remarks on CM||Bengaluru The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Friday issued a show cause notice to its legislator from Vijayapura in Karnataka, Basanagouda Ramanagouda Patil (Yatnal), for his relentless tirade against chief minister B S Yediyurappa. “A notice has been issued today,” another BJP legislator confirmed on the condition of anonymity, adding that Yatnal may be given 15 days to respond to the notice. Yatnal, however, remained unapologetic for his statements and denied making any remarks that is “shocking”. “I have made no statement or practice politics for which I have to apologize or regret. I haven’t made any statements against the party or national leaders. I shall respond to the notice after I have seen the content,” he said.The show cause notice comes after weeks of attacks against Yediyurappa. The BJP legislator had made several statements indicative of a change in leadership in the state, much to the annoyance of the chief minister. But the eerie silence by the party’s central leadership on the comments had raised doubts if the saffron party would take any action against Yatnal. At the same time, there were doubts if the high command had indeed isolated Yeddiurappa. “Our Prime Minister’s dreams are of development, end of dynasty politics and a corruption-free government. I will request our national president that only one person from a household should be given the power. It cannot be that there is an MP, MLC, MLA, board heads and even people in-charge of party affairs from only one family,” a disgruntled Yatnal had said on January 21, after he missed securing a place in the cabinet expansion exercise. He has also, on multiple occasions, said that the 77-year-old chief minister would be replaced. Yatnal is also an active participant in the ongoing Panchamasali Lingayat padayatra or march by one of the most dominant and politically influential communities. The Panchamasali, the largest sect within the dominant Lingayat community, have demanded that their existing reservation category be changed from 3B to 2A. Despite assurances from Yediyurappa to review and study the socio-economic conditions of the community, the participants of the campaign continue with their 465-km march from Kudalasangama towards Bengaluru where a rally has been scheduled for February 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bjp-issues-show-cause-notice-to-legislator-for-remarks-on-cm-101613152647310.html
12-02-2021||Noida||Noida: Several front-line workers refuse to take Covaxin jab||NOIDA: A sub-inspector of the Gautam Budh Nagar police was waiting for his turn to get Covid-19 vaccine at the Super Specialty Paediatric Hospital and Post Graduate Teaching Institute (SSPGTI) in Sector 30. However, the moment he came to know that he would be administered Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin, he refused to take the jab. “It’s a complete discrimination. There must be a uniformity in vaccination. If my colleagues have got Covishield vaccine, why’ll I get another vaccine? Unlike the beneficiaries of other sessions, we are being asked to fill a form. Even my family doctor has advised me against taking the vaccine,” he said. A CRPF jawan at a private hospital in the city created the similar scene. “I had been waiting for my turn since morning. But, when I came to know that I would be administered other brand of vaccine, I chose not to take the shot,” he said. HT has withheld names of the two persons who refused to take the shots.After administering the Serum Institute of India’s (SII) Covishield vaccine in six sessions of phase 1 and first two sessions of phase 2 of the Covid-19 vaccination drive, the GB Nagar health department on Friday began giving Covaxin shots to the front-line workers for the first time in the district. But the beneficiaries appeared more confused about the efficacy of Covaxin. According to official data, only 2,850 out of 5,625 front-line workers listed for the day took the shots, with a turnout of around 51%. The GB Nagar chief medical officer (CMO), Dr Deepak Ohri, agreed that many front-line workers are doubtful about the accuracy of Covaxin. “We are trying to convince them about the efficacy and accuracy of the vaccine. But, so far it has not yielded very encouraging results,” he said.District vaccination officer Dr Neeraj Tyagi said that inoculation took place at 45 booths in the district on Friday. “We administered Covaxin for the first time to 2,080 out of 4,375 enlisted for it (47.54%) at 34 booths and 770 Covishield to 1,250 registered for it (61.6%) at 11 booths. We’ve given certificates of inoculation to the beneficiaries, who have been administered Covaxin today,” he said. Tyagi further said that with one session left in phase 2 of vaccination, the district health department has to inoculate the remaining 12,349 front-line workers (out of 18,717 registered beneficiaries) in that session. “We’ll try to accommodate the remaining beneficiaries in that session. And the left out front-line workers will be inoculated during the mop up round on February 22,” he said. On the other hand, Ohri said that the low turnout has become a matter of concern for the district health department. “We’ll try to increase it to an optimum level in the coming sessions. However, during Friday’s inoculation, no adverse event following immunization (AEFI) was reported,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-several-front-line-workers-refuse-to-take-covaxin-jab-101613152407762.html
12-02-2021||Mumbai||Fuel costs in Mumbai keep rising as petrol, reaches ₹94.64/L, diesel at ₹85.32/L||Fuel prices in the city increased on Friday for the fourth consecutive day. One litre of diesel crossed the ₹85-mark. Petrol was priced at ₹94.64 per litre and diesel cost ₹85.32 per litre on Friday.Transporters have reacted sharply and stated that the government is trying to destroy the road transport sector and have claimed distress in the road transport sector is similar to that of the farming sector. “Fuel prices are rising unabated and this is the fourth hike in a row this week. It seems the government is hell-bent to finish the road transport sector and the 20 crore people associated with this trade. The rising diesel price is exerting acute pressure on small road transport operators as they are unable to run their business. The distress in the road transport sector is similar to the farm sector… the slogan of ‘aatmnirbhar’ is transforming to ‘aatmhatya’,” said Bal Malkit Singh, chairman, All India Motor Transport Congress. Petrol on Thursday cost ₹94.36 per litre and diesel was priced at ₹84.94 in the city. On Wednesday, the price of one litre of petrol was ₹94.12, while diesel cost ₹84.63.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fuel-costs-in-mumbai-keep-rising-as-petrol-reaches-94-64-l-diesel-at-8532l-101613152348539.html
12-02-2021||Noida||Police escort Tikait’s car for ‘security’ near UP Gate||Ghaziabad: Farmer leaders at the UP Gate protest site said that on Friday morning an ‘anti-romeo squad’ vehicle of the Ghaziabad police was allegedly seen accompanying the SUV in which Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait was travelling, to attend a farmers’ rally at Bahadurgarh in Haryana. The police, however, did a flip flop as they first confirmed it but then later denied this ever happened. The BKU leader has been attending farmers’ meetings and panchayats in different areas of the national Capital region and frequently comes to and leaves the UP Gate protest site, where he has been camping with farmers since November 28, 2020.In the afternoon, senior officers of the Ghaziabad police said that they had indeed provided a conditional police escort vehicle to Tikait in view of “security” and “traffic issues”.“There is only one vehicle which is deployed in view of traffic issues, and safety and security concerns, if any. One sub-inspector has also been deputed with him ever since he received a threat over the phone. The vehicle has not been deputed permanently but only to guide him to the Ghaziabad border when he moves out. It will also guide him once he returns,” said Gyanendra Singh, superintendent of police (city 2).Tikait in December last year had allegedly received a threat call from an unidentified person, following which BKU leaders had submitted a police complaint at the Kaushambi police station.The Ghaziabad police said that they had registered an FIR under Section 507 (criminal intimidation by anonymous communication) of the Indian Penal Code against an unidentified person who allegedly issued threats to Tikait.However, when approached for response on the said provision of the police vehicle, Ghaziabad’s senior superintendent of police Kalanidhi Naithani said that “no escort vehicle was provided,” without elaborating further.Dharmendra Malik, the media in-charge of the BKU, however, confirmed that “the police vehicle was there on Friday morning when Tikait ji was going to attend the rally.” Digambar Singh, state vice-president of the BKU’s youth wing, on January 28 had given another complaint to the Kaushambi police naming two MLAs from Ghaziabad, alleging that they, along with a group of people, had allegedly attacked farmers and damaged their tents.The two MLAs had rubbished the allegations as false, saying that they were not present anywhere near the UP Gate protest site. Tikait and other farmer leaders have been booked in various FIRs filed by the Delhi Police following incidents of violence that took place amid the tractor rally call given by the farmers in Delhi on Republic Day.The farmers have been protesting at the various borders of Delhi demanding repeal of the three new farm laws and a new law on minimum support price. Several rounds of talks, including the last discussion on January 22, have failed to break the deadlock between the farmers and government. Tikait on Friday reiterated the demand of the farmers at the rally held in Bahadurgarh.“We will return home only when the three new farm laws are taken back. No one should misunderstand us. Our leaders (of the core-committee at Singhu border) think the same and feel that the government should talk to us. There is a saying in villages that if a child goes missing in fairs at Tigri and Garh, they will be found next year at the same fair,” Tikait said, referring to the deadline of October 2 till which, the farmers said, they will be stationed at the protest site.“People say that I have given a deadline of October 2 for the agitation. I just said this on the basis of an old saying by our elders,” he added. Tikait on Friday also said that more mahapanchayats will be held in the coming days, adding that they will go to Gujarat as well.He alleged that farmers from Gujarat were being “pressured” not to lend support to the agitation.“We will hold meetings in Gujarat and other states,” he said.He also said “business on hunger” will not be allowed and those wanting it will be “driven out” of the country.Hitting out at the three new farm laws, he claimed these will lead to the dismantling of the MSP and exploitation of farmers, from whom big companies will procure their produce at cheaper rates and then store it in godowns.The Samyukt Kisan Morcha at the Singhu Border, in a press statement on Thursday, had clarified that the agitation will go on till the demands of the farmers are met. Sidharth Nath Singh, Uttar Pradesh cabinet minister, who arrived at Ghaziabad on Friday afternoon, said that the farmers should not be “misled”.“We maintain that the people have the right to protest in a democracy, but it should be carried out in a peaceful manner. We maintain that the laws brought in by the Centre are for the benefit of farmers and they should not get confused by people who are trying to do so,” he added.With PTI inputs||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/police-escort-tikait-s-car-for-security-near-up-gate-101613152347244.html
12-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai sub-registrar booked, cooperatives officer arrested for demanding bribe||The Mumbai anti-corruption bureau (ACB) has arrested a cooperatives department official for allegedly accepting a ₹1 lakh bribe from a Khar resident who had sought action against the committee members of his cooperative housing society for alleged irregularities committed by them.ACB also apprehended a sub-registrar on bribery charges, but he was not arrested as he tested positive for Covid-19 and had to be admitted to hospital. The complainant, a 61-year-old Khar resident, had approached the office of the deputy registrar of cooperative societies at Bandra (West), seeking action against committee members and the secretary of his society. He alleged that they did not maintain records of the society’s general body meetings or the audit reports, and also complained of various other irregularities. According to the ACB, the accused cooperative official Ganesh Sukhram Rathod, 34, demanded ₹3 lakh to get an administrator appointed for the society and ensure action against the erring society members.The complainant verified the bribe demand from Gautam Shankar Vardhan, 39, the sub-registrar, who also asked him to fulfil the (bribe) demand for action. The complainant then approached the ACB Mumbai office on February 10 and officers laid a trap on Thursday and arrested Rathod while he was accepting a bribe of ₹1 lakh. “Sub-registrar Vardhan too was arrested, but he was sent for treatment, as he tested positive for Covid-19. Action will be taken against him once he is free from the infection,” said an ACB officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-sub-registrar-booked-cooperatives-officer-arrested-for-demanding-bribe-101613152048059.html
12-02-2021||Other||Mumbai don Arun Gawli returns to Nagpur jail after Covid-19 treatment||Mumbai gangster Arun Gawli, who was infected with Covid-19 and admitted to the government-run medical college and hospital in Nagpur, was shifted back to the central jail there on Friday evening after he responded to treatment. Five inmates of Nagpur Central Prison, including Gawli, tested positive for the coronavirus on Wednesday. The Mumbai underworld don was later shifted to the government hospital after his condition deteriorated. Jail superintendent Anup Kumre said that Gawli and the four other infected inmates were treated by the prison doctors initially. However, Gawli was shifted to the trauma centre of the government hospital when his condition worsened. After undergoing numerous tests, he was shifted back to the central prison on Friday, informed Dr Sajal Mitra, dean of the medical college and hospital. Known as “Daddy” among his supporters, Gawli, 66, was active in the Mumbai underworld since the 1970s and engaged in a bloody gang war with the absconding mafia don Dawood Ibrahim till the 1990s. Gawli was convicted in 2012 for the murder of Shiv Sena leader and corporator Kamlakar Jamsandekar, and sentenced to life imprisonment, which he is currently serving at Nagpur Central Prison. In 1997, Gawli floated a political party, Akhil Bharatiya Sena, and was elected member of the Maharashtra Legislative Assembly in 2004. His wife Asha also led the party while Gawli was in jail, while his daughter Geeta Gawli is a corporator from Byculla in the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). Nagpur Central Prison houses around 2,250 prisoners and is considered sensitive for the transmission of Covid-19. In June and July 2020, over 300 prisoners and some staff had tested positive. “In case any prisoners display symptoms, we test them for Covid-19. Accordingly, 10 prisoners were tested, of whom five were positive,” Kumre said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mumbai-don-arun-gawli-returns-to-nagpur-jail-after-covid-19-treatment-101613151988239.html
12-02-2021||Noida||Greater Noida: 40-year-old arrested for raping minor daughter||Greater Noida: A 40-year-old man was arrested for allegedly raping his minor daughter in Jewar on Wednesday night. Police said the suspect, who worked at a brick kiln in Jewar, allegedly fled to Khurja after the crime.Officers said the suspect, who is from Bulandshahr, had been living with his wife, 38, daughter, 15, and son, 10, in Jewar for a few months. The couple worked at a brick kiln and lived in a makeshift house near the kiln.Umesh Bahadur, station house officer, Jewar police station, said that the suspect’s wife had gone to Bulandshahr when the alleged incident took place. “The suspect and his two children remained in Jewar. On Wednesday night, he allegedly raped his daughter and fled the spot,” the SHO said. Police said the victim raised an alarm and some locals gathered at the spot who allegedly informed the girl’s mother over the phone, after which she returned to Jewar the next day. The girl’s mother then filed a complaint against the suspect at the Jewar police station.Bahadur said that a case was registered against the suspect under Section 376-C (sexual intercourse by a person in authority) and sections 3 and 4 of the Protection of Children against Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. On Thursday evening, the police arrested the suspect from Khurja in Bulandshahr. Police said the suspect allegedly gave way to the crime under the influence of alcohol. The minor was sent for a medical examination at the district hospital. The suspect was produced in court and sent to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/greater-noida-40-year-old-arrested-for-raping-minor-daughter-101613151868395.html
12-02-2021||Other||Noida sectors to get Ganga water by November||NOIDA: Work on the Ganga water supply project for several sectors in Noida has received a new deadline of November 2021, officials of Noida authority said on Friday. The project was supposed to be complete by November last year.As of now, residents of sectors 112, 116, 117, 118, 119, 120, 121, 122, 128, 130, 131, 133, 134, 135, 137, 143, 144, 145B, 146, 147, 151 and 168, among some other areas, are provided ground water, which is saline and does not taste good.The Noida authority currently procures 240 million litre daily (MLD) Ganga water to most of the sectors in the city. It also procures some groundwater when the Upper Ganga canal, that supplies the water to Noida, is cleaned, which happens in the month of November every year, said the officials. Work on the project, to supply Ganga water to households in the above mentioned sectors, was started in March 2018. However, work to lay the pipeline was delayed due to Metro construction work in Sector 62 and other areas, said officials.“We have completed 67% of the work on this project and have put works on fast track, so that the project can be completed by November-end this year and residents can be supplied Ganga water,” said Rajiv Tyagi, chief general manager of the Noida authority.When the pipeline comes into operation, Noida will get an additional 90 MLD of Ganga water thus reducing dependence on ground water.Officials said that Noida’s population is expected to increase to about 2.5 million in a couple of years,and the water capacity of the city needs to be expanded in anticipation of the growing demand. At present, the city has a total of 165 sectors with an estimated population of around two million.“With this project, we want to increase Ganga water availability from the existing 240 MLD to 330 MLD in order to meet the water demands that will come from the upcoming residential areas along the Noida-Greater Noida Expressway as well as other parts of the city,” Tyagi said.The UttarPradesh Jal Nigam requires an estimated ₹200 crore to finish this project. “We are providing 56% Ganga water and 44% groundwater to Noida. In the future too, this ratio of 56:44 will continue,” said Tyagi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/noida-sectors-to-get-ganga-water-by-november-101613151867831.html
12-02-2021||Noida||Noida: Builders form group to develop sports facilities||Ten developers with housing projects in Noida’s sector 79 under the sports city scheme have formed a consortium to develop sports facilities for their customers.Under the scheme promoted by the Noida authority, developers who are allotted land would have to develop sports facilities on 70% of the land. In January last year, the authority banned plot sale, lease permission, registry of plots and refused to give occupancy certificates if developers had not fulfilled this condition.“We formed a separate company on Fridaywith 10 developers as stakeholders to develop a golf course, cricket ground and other sports facilities in the sector,” said Subodh Goyal, promoter of Civitech and leader of the consortium. “We are preparing estimates on how much funds are required to develop the required facilities,” Goyal said. However, he refused to reveal the other companies in the consortium. Together, they have about 150 acres, allotted in 2016, in the sector and were scheduled to develop 5,000 apartments, authority officials said.“We will issue certificates, allow plot sale and facilitate flat registry if the developers build facilities, pay dues and fulfil other terms. Without these conditions, we cannot allow these permissions,” said Ritu Maheshwari, CEO of the Noida authority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-builders-form-group-to-develop-sports-facilities-101613151867259.html
12-02-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad records lowest turnout for Covid-19 vaccination||Ghaziabad: The turnout for Covid-19 vaccination in Ghaziabad went down further on Friday with the district recording only 39.41% coverage when it was the turn of front-line workers to take shots. Friday’s turnout is the lowest so far among all the vaccination sessions that started on January 16 in Ghaziabad, officials of the district health department said. Also, the officials said that Covaxin was administered to front-line workers on Thursday and Friday and resulted in no adverse event following immunization (AEFI). On Friday, as many as 1,555 people got the shots out of the day’s target of 3,946. On Thursday, the coverage had stood at 45.33% with 1,559 front-line workers getting the shots out of a target of 3,439. “The turnout remained at an all-time low on Friday as many front-line workers of different departments did not come up at the centres. We have time and again told their department heads to spread awareness and expedite the vaccination process, but the things have remained slow,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical office, Ghaziabad. He said that it was the first time that Covaxin was administered to beneficiaries on Thursday and Friday. “On both the days of administration of Covaxin, there were no AEFI events reported in the district. Prior to this, we administered Covishield which resulted in minor AEFI events in some cases during earlier days of vaccination. However, our experience with both the vaccines has been very encouraging and no beneficiary suffered any health complication,” Gupta added. District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey did not take calls for his comments over the issue of declining vaccination coverage in the district. This was the eighth day of the vaccination drive that began on January 16. On the first day, 94.75% (379 of 400) beneficiaries received their shots. On January 22, the turnout dropped to 81.28% (3,251 of 4,000), on January 28 it was 71.91% (4,095 of 5,695), January 29 had 72.69% (4,190 of 5,764), February 4 had 70.05% (3,557 of 5,078), and on February 5 the figure was 63.74% (3,129 of 4,909). “Vaccination is the need of hour and there has to be more awareness among people to take it up. The present time is also suitable as the Covid cases in the state as well as in the district are at their lowest level. So, vaccination coverage needs to be increased further,” said Dr Ashish Agarwal, president of Indian Medical Association – Ghaziabad.District’s overall coverage at the end of sessions on Friday stood at 65.35% with a total of 21,715 people vaccinated out of a target of 33,231 beneficiaries so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-records-lowest-turnout-for-covid-19-vaccination-101613151807219.html
12-02-2021||Noida||One of three arrested for murdering man in Vaishali apartment||Ghaziabad: The Ghaziabad police late Thursday arrested a 55-year-old man who was allegedly part of the group that had murdered a 25-year-old man in a flat in Vaishali’s Sector 4. The police said that based on the statements of the suspect, the conspiracy of murder was allegedly planned by a 32-year-old woman. Upon receiving information, the police on February 10 had reached the apartment in Vaishali and recovered the body of a man identified as Nitin Chaudhary, a resident of Tila Morh in Sahibabad. The police said he had left his house on February 6, telling his family that he would be out for a couple of days. However, he did not return while his mobile phone remained switched off. “Based on information collected and electronic surveillance, we arrested a 55-year-old Vinod Kumar, a resident of Shahdara in Delhi. He said that the victim had a relationship with the woman for past several years and was blackmailing her. He was also pressurising her for marriage,” Gyanendra Singh, superintendent of police (city 2), said adding that the identity of the woman will be revealed later. The police added that the woman, a resident of Shalimar Garden in Ghaziabad, allegedly planned the murder along with Vinod and Kulwinder Singh, whom she had intended to marry. Kulwinder is a resident of Yamuna Vihar in Delhi. Both Kulwinder and the woman have been on the run since the murder, said police. “The woman called up the deceased to the apartment, which was vacant and belongs to a friend of Vinod. There, the three suspects bludgeoned the victim with iron rods and sticks, and rolled his body in bedsheet and curtain before fleeing,” the SP added.Police said that on February 10, Vinod allegedly called up the police saying that there was some foul smell emanating from the flat. However, police became suspicious as officers found that Vinod was in Delhi and could not have detected any smell next to his flat in Ghaziabad. The police said that teams are searching for the woman and Kulwinder, and that more information will be revealed once they get arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/one-of-three-arrested-for-murdering-man-in-vaishali-apartment-101613151687298.html
12-02-2021||Noida||Dense fog likely, air quality gets worse||Noida: The city and its adjoining areas are likely to witness dense fog and haze for the next two days due to low wind speed, leading to rise in the air pollution levels, India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Friday.On Friday, Noida, Ghaziabad and Greater Noida were the top three polluted cities of country -- a second in the past four days -- with the pollution monitoring agencies seeing no respite for the next three days.According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), the air quality index (AQI) of Ghaziabad on Friday was 375 (‘very poor’) -- worst in the country just like on February 9 and 10 -- against 356 on Thursday. Similarly, Noida’s AQI was 363 -- second most polluted city in country -- against 311 a day earlier, followed by Greater Noida with an AQI value of 352 against 344 a day earlier. An AQI between 101 to 200 is considered ‘moderate’, between 201 and 300 is ‘poor’, between 301 and 400 is ‘very poor’ and above 400 is considered ‘severe’. According to weather analysts, the wind speed on Friday dropped as the region fell into a low pressure area and is likely to continue to be so till Sunday.“The region will see dense fog on Saturday, bringing down the visibility to around 100 metres,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, IMD.The experts said that temperatures are around season’s average only but the wind speed are very low. “Due to low wind speed during the morning hours, the condensation of moisture would continue. Also, since the low speed of winds leads to accumulation of particles, the haze formatting will be there. This could bring the visibility down to less than 100 metres from early morning hours to about 9am,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice-president (meteorology and climate change) at Skymet, a private weather forecasting agency.Meanwhile, the minimum and maximum temperatures for Noida were recorded at 12.6 degrees and 26 degrees Celsius, respectively. According to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), not much change in the pollution situation is expected over the next few days. “Surface winds are low and wind speed is likely to marginally improve during day time. The ventilation is likely to stay in the same range and no significant change in AQI is expecting for the next couple of days. AQI is likely to stay in the very poor category for the next two days. AQI likely to marginally improve to lower end of very poor to poor category is forecasted for February 15,” said a SAFAR statement on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/dense-fog-likely-air-quality-gets-worse-101613151627299.html
12-02-2021||Lucknow||UP govt faces teething troubles on way to paperless budget||The Uttar Pradesh government’s ambitious plan to become the first state to present a paperless budget for 2021-2022 faced some teething troubles with its newly built budget app ‘Uttar Pradesh Sarkar Ka Budget’ being unavailable on devices on the first day of the three-day training for legislators on Friday.Most of the legislators, however, called the first day of the training a great learning experience and a good beginning. They hoped the app will be available soon.“We had a wonderful learning session. We learnt about using the iPad on Friday. We may, however, have to come for more training sessions on Saturday and Sunday to learn more. The budget app was not available on Friday. We have been told about the use of the app that is likely to be available on Saturday,” said Puran Prakash, MLA from Mathura.“We had a good learning experience. We will come again for more sessions in the next two days. This is useful,” said Devendra Pratap Singh from Kasganj and Virendra Singh.Some legislators said they have been told about the use of National e-Vidhan and the budget app as well. A legislator said one session was not enough, adding that the budget app could not be downloaded on Friday.“A meeting has been now convened on the issue and hopefully the app will be available by Saturday,” said another legislator.A functionary of the National Informatics Centre (NIC) said the app should be available on the iOS platform by Saturday.Also read: Earthquake felt in Delhi-NCR, parts of north India“We are sure this will be done by Saturday. About seven to eight legislators had android devices. The app was downloaded on their devices. The budget app will be available on iOS platform too by Saturday,” said the functionary.The state government had asked all legislators to buy iPads (iOS platform) to enable them to learn the use of the device to pave the way for the presentation of a paperless budget in the budget session of state legislature commencing from February 18.An amount of ₹50,000 will be reimbursed to them on the production of the receipt. The state government proposes to present the annual budget for 2021-2022 on February 22.Minister for parliamentary affairs Suresh Khanna used the occasion to convey gratitude to chief minister Yogi Adityanath for making the devices available to ministers and legislators. He said after learning the use of the device, the legislators will be ready for a paperless budget and also proceedings of the legislature.Khanna said more use of technology would lead to progress. He added that the legislators would be imparted training in six shifts in three days and that the last session has been reserved for members of the Upper House. Members would learn the use of the device to receive information, make comments and forward the same to appropriate levels for action.Some opposition leaders had said that the BJP opposed the use of computers earlier (when they were introduced). Khanna responded by saying that he cannot comment on such observations as he was not there. He said he had invited leaders of all parties and legislators to learn the use of technology.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-govt-faces-teething-troubles-on-way-to-paperless-budget-101613151346157.html
12-02-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra Governor not allowed on state aircraft; state to seek report||The state general administration department will seek a report from Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari’s secretary Santosh Kumar over Thursday’s incident, when Koshyari was not allowed to fly to Uttarakhand in the state’s aircraft, chief secretary Sanjay Kumar told Hindustan Times on Friday. According to Raj Bhavan, Koshyari had to face an embarrassment on Thursday as he went to the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) and boarded the state’s six-seater Cessna Citation XLS aircraft to travel to Dehradun, but had to deplane and take a commercial flight, as the chief minister’s office (CMO) had not approved the use. After the incident, the CMO on Thursday blamed the Raj Bhavan secretariat, saying the latter should have ensured they had the permission to use the aircraft before the governor’s departure from his official residence. Indicating action against the officials for not informing the governor about permission updates, the CMO also said chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had already directed the administration to fix the responsibility for the negligence on the officials concerned. Sanjay Kumar said on Friday: “A report will be sought from the governor’s secretary (Santosh Kumar) over the incident. The state aviation department secretary will be directed to seek the report and further decisions will be taken by the state government.” On Friday, Thackeray avoided reacting to the controversy and remarked the government would be developing an air strip at Palghar, so everyone’s aircraft can land there. He was responding to a question over the incident. Thackeray also chose to use a helipad at Mahalaxmi racecourse instead of the one at Raj Bhavan (Governor’s house at Malabar Hill) following the aircraft controversy, the officials said. The incident, however, is likely to worsen the already strained relations between the Thackeray government and Koshyari. According to senior government officials, Koshyari and Thackeray are not on talking terms beyond customary exchanges for the past many months. Recently, they met at the state’s Republic Day function at Shivaji Park, Dadar, but there was hardly any interaction, the officials said. “He [Uddhav Thackeray] should understand we also have some political compulsions. The governor told this to Rashmi, Thackeray’s wife during a brief interaction,” said a senior bureaucrat, requesting anonymity. Koshyari was referring to the appointment of 12 members of the legislative council under his quota. The state cabinet had made the recommendation to Koshyari to nominate them to the Upper House as per the norms on November 6, last year. However, he is yet to take the decision, which has upset the chief minister and MVA leaders. The chief minister has not visited Raj Bhavan, official residence-cum-office of the governor, for nine months. Last time, he called on Koshyari after being elected as the member of the legislative council on May 18. His wife and son and environment minister Aaditya Thackeray were also present. Before that, Thackeray called on the governor at Raj Bhavan on May 1. The meeting lasted for about 20 minutes. It was held a day after Koshyari wrote to the Election commission of India (ECI), requesting it to hold biennial elections to the nine vacant seats of the council at the earliest to facilitate Thackeray’s election to the Upper House of the state legislature. The biennial elections for the nine vacant seats were postponed in view of the coronavirus pandemic. Later, Thackeray also skipped a meeting called by the governor to review the Covid-19 pandemic on May 21, the officials said. Meanwhile, Koshyari attended the 122th IAS induction programme at the Lal Shastri National Academy of Administration, Mussoorie, on Friday. He also met Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat and discussed the ongoing rescue operation following the glacier disaster. The governor was expected to return in the state government’s aircraft, but now he will be returning to Mumbai in a commercial flight on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-governor-not-allowed-on-state-aircraft-state-to-seek-report-101613149887751.html
12-02-2021||Pune||Pune district reports zero Covid deaths in 24 hours||Pune: The Pune district reported zero deaths due to Covid-19 in the last 24 hours by the state health department on Friday. However, the district continues to remain one with most active cases with 5,076 active cases with patients undergoing treatment at hospitals or in home isolation. Pune is followed by Thane with 4,519 cases and Mumbai with 3,881 active cases. With 517 new cases, Pune has reported a total of 3.93 lakh Covid-19 cases with 3.80 lakh recovered and 8,052 deaths reported. The city has reported 266 new cases which took the final count to 200,699 while the death toll reaches 4,554. Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation reported 107 new cases which reached the count to 98,262 while the death toll stood to 1,320 while Pune rural reported 144 new Covid cases which took the final count to 94,464 while the death toll stood at 2,133. The department reported that 2,442 patients were discharged on Friday taking the final count of such cases to over 19.72 lakh. The recovery rate in the state is 95.91%. Also, 3,670 new cases in the state were reported taking the total to over 20.56 lakh. In addition, 36 Covid-19 deaths were reported in the state taking the death toll to 52,626. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.5%. Of 15,219,416 laboratory samples 2,056,575 have been tested positive (13.51%) for Covid until Friday. Currently, 168,087 people are in home quarantine and 1,789 are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-zero-covid-deaths-in-24-hours-101613149408440.html
12-02-2021||Other||Maharashtra CM visit Jawhar; remarks on closed door meeting, airstrips||Uddhav Thackeray, during his visit to Jawhar, took a jibe at Governor BS Koshyari, saying there are many areas in the region and elsewhere to construct airstrips for landing and take-off. A controversy erupted as Koshyari was not allowed to board a state aircraft for his Dehradun trip. While addressing the media, the CM said, “Now, you [the media] have raised this issue... We (the state) can construct many airstrips in Jawhar and elsewhere in the state.”The CM also made a caustic remark on home minister Amit Shah’s statement that sharing of CM’s post was not promised during the closed-door meet at Matoshree. The CM said, “Just now, I had a ‘closed door’ meeting in regard to the development of Jawhar as a tourist destination in the state and other issues...I am divulging the details of the closed door meeting to all of you.”Meaawhile, the chief minister has also announced the construction of a full-fledged hospital and a medical college in the tribal belt of Jawhar. The former King of Jawhar, Doorasinh Raje Mukhne met the CM and donated land for setting up a health facility. The Mukne Dynasty ruled Jawhar for 600 years, till 1947. The CM visited a child care hospital, Cottage Hospital and Kharvand Anganwadi Centre in Jawhar and reviewed the working of the medical centres. He took stock of the issues facing the medical fraternity working in the rural and tribal belt in Jawhar and also reviewed the malnutrition cases. He also inspected the houses built for tribals under the PM Awaaz Yojana. Delay in Palghar district buildingThe new Palghar district was carved out of Thane district in August 2014. The CM said there has been a delay in building houses for the new collectorate, police and other departments. Thackeray said the new infrastructure will be ready soon.Thackeray was accompanied by Dada Bhuse, guardian minister; Ravindra Phatak, member of Legislative Council; Rajendra Gavit, member of Parliament, Palghar; members of Legislative Assembly Sunil Bhusara and Srinivas Wanga; Palghar collector Dr Manek Gursal and other officials.Meanwhile, the CM, while talking to the media, remarked on the allegation by the home minister Amit Shah on seat-sharing during a closed-door meeting with the then alliance partner, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), at Matoshree in 2019. “I had a ‘close door’ meeting concerning the development of Jawhar as a tourist destination and now I am divulging the details of the closed-door meeting in front of you all,” Thackeray said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/maharashtra-cm-visit-jawhar-remarks-on-closed-door-meeting-airstrips-101613149407879.html
12-02-2021||Pune||Rajesh Patil is new PCMC commissioner||PUNE: The Maharashtra government on Friday transferred various IAS officers from postings in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad. Pimpri-Chinchwad municipal commissioner Sharavan Hardikar has been transferred as director general of Inspector General of Registration and Controller of Stamps. Odisha cadre IAS officer Rajesh Patil has been appointed as municipal commissioner of Pimpri-Chinchwad.Hardikar S Chokalingam, who was settlement commissioner, is now director general of the Yashwantrao Chavan Academy of Development Administration (Yashada). Sheetal Ugale-Teli is now director of cotton industry located in Nagpur.Commissioner of the Disabled, Prerana Deshbhratar, has been appointed as district collector Wardha. N K Sudhansu, who was working with the central government, is now appointed as settlement commissioner in Pune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/rajesh-patil-is-new-pcmc-commissioner-101613148867015.html
12-02-2021||Pune||61% vaccinated in Pune district, zero AEFI incidents reported||Pune: On Friday, over 61% of target beneficiaries were vaccinated against Covid. Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) reported the highest vaccination percentage with 75 of the target beneficiaries vaccinated against the virus. Pune rural saw 48% beneficiaries vaccinated while PCMC reported the least with 59% beneficiaries. The district reported zero adverse effects following immunisation (AEFI) incidents reported on Friday. PMC reported that 1,798 beneficiaries of the target 2,400 beneficiaries were vaccinated, including 144 frontline workers (FLW). PCMC reported 882 beneficiaries were vaccinated of the target 1,500, including 429 FLWs were vaccinated. Pune rural reported that 1,103 beneficiaries were vaccinated, including 541 FLWs of the 2,300 target beneficiaries. A total of 59,621 beneficiaries have been vaccinated in the district till date, of which 55,001 are health care workers and 4,620 are frontline workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/61-vaccinated-in-pune-district-zero-aefi-incidents-reported-101613148746999.html
12-02-2021||Pune||Report of new site for Purandar airport submitted||PUNE: Pune district guardian minister Ajit Pawar said that the report regarding the new site for Purandar airport has been submitted to the central government.The Pune international airport at Purandar was approved by authorities before it faced land acquisition issue from farmers. Later, NCP leader Sharad Pawar suggested an alternate land for the airport at the same taluka.Defence minister Rajnath Singh chaired a meeting on the issue and instructed authorities to submit a report for the new location.Pawar said, “As suggested by Rajnath Singh, district collector, airport authority and defence authorities jointly submitted a report to the central government. The proposed land is near the existing site. The new site is in the same locality and falls under Purandar. The site also has less land acquisition cases.”Congress MLA Sanjay Jagtap said, “It will be too early to declare the location of the new site. If the new location is approved, the government would need to acquire less land for the airport as maximum land is owned by the government. We carried out an in-depth study before suggesting the new site as the farmers from the previous site were not ready to hand over their land for the airport project.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/report-of-new-site-for-purandar-airport-submitted-101613148207004.html
12-02-2021||Pune||Centre should bear cost of vaccinating citizens: Pawar||PUNE: Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, who holds the finance ministry portfolio, said that the central government should bear the cost of Covid-19 vaccination for all citizens. Pawar was in the city to review district plans before presenting the Maharashtra’s budget at the state assembly on March 8. Pawar said, “The Centre is giving vaccination to doctors and frontline workers. The Union health minister had announced that vaccination will cover all citizens, before stating that only health and frontline workers will get free vaccination. Instead of creating confusion about free vaccination, the Centre should take responsibility and bear the cost of inoculating all citizens instead of putting financial burden on state governments.” According to the deputy minister, the central government is yet to release the GST (goods and services tax) share of Maharashtra. As per the parliament act, all state governments should be given the GST share immediately. “We are hoping that our GST shared will be released early as we need money to carry our various developmental works,” he said. Fire at Serum institute Pawar, who is also the Pune district guardian minister, said that he has received the report from fire department and police on the fire at Serum Institute of India’s Manjari premises on January 21. “Electric short circuit was the sole reason behind the fire,” he said. No relation appointment of MLCs and guv’s air travel The Maha Vikas Aghadi government did not have any intention to insult the governor while denying use of government-owned aircraft, said Pawar. “The Chief Minister’s office had given clarification about it. I don’t know the exact reason why the governor did not get permission for using the official aircraft. It’s a machine, some technical problem must have occurred. There is no connection between the appointment of 12 governor-appointed MLCs and governor’s travel issue,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/centre-should-bear-cost-of-vaccinating-citizens-pawar-101613147486911.html
12-02-2021||Pune||We will wrest power from BJP in PMC: Ajit Pawar||PUNE: Challenging former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis’s claim, Nationalist Congress Party’s (NCP) leader Ajit Pawar said on Friday that Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) will see the exit of Bharatiya Janata Party in the upcoming civic body polls. “I would snatch power from BJP in Pune Municipal Corporation,” said Pawar while interacting with the media. Fadnavis has visited the Pune Municipal Corporation headquarters on Thursday and reviewed various projects. While interacting with the media, Fadnavis had claimed that the BJP is performing better in Pune and would retain power in the coming municipal election. The BJP leader said that the party will do not enter into an alliance, especially the Maharashtra Navnirman Sena, in the coming civic polls. Pawar said, “Every ruling party claim to retain power in the forthcoming polls, but I would ensure the BJP’s exit in Pune. Many rebels from various parties joined the BJP during the previous years. Now some of them wish to join the NCP. We would accept workers from other parties on merit basis only and show them before the media at the right time.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/we-will-wrest-power-from-bjp-in-pmc-ajit-pawar-101613146226939.html
12-02-2021||Other||PCMC grants permission for felling of 292 trees, residents fume||PUNE Residents and environmentalists are up in arms against Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) for permitting to cut 292 trees in Bhosari, Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC).These trees were planted on plot No. 37, Bhosari in 1997 on five-acre land. This plot has been sold by MIDC, the owner had asked permission to cut the trees.Only 77 trees will be replanted, according to the civic body.“Many of these trees are almost 25-years-old, how can PCMC permit to cut these trees. In past as well PCMC has turned a blind eye to such issues,” said Prashant Raul, an environment activist.Baban Bhosale, a resident in the area, said, “These trees provide greenery in the area and many are medicinal trees. The administration wants to develop a smart city, but without proper green cover in the area.”Another resident Abhishek Patil said, “While undertaking development works many trees are cut down. PCMC should take efforts to save greenery in the civic limits.”“We have followed all protocol while giving permission,” said Prakash Gaikwad, garden superintendent, PCMC.The trees include mainly 31 Arjun trees,56 Peltophorum pterocarpum, and three Eucalyptus (Nilgiri).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pcmc-grants-permission-for-felling-of-292-trees-residents-fume-101613145986915.html
12-02-2021||City||After Kotia, Andhra officials try to conduct panchayat polls in another district||On a day the Supreme Court deferred the hearing in the matter of Andhra Pradesh conducting panchayat polls in three bordering villages of Odisha, a team of officials of Andhra Pradesh had to make a hasty retreat in Gajapati district where they had come to conduct panchayat polls.On Friday, the top court asked Andhra Pradesh government to file a response after Odisha government moved a contempt of court petition, seeking action against the neighbouring state over its violation of the apex court's order in 1968 and 2006. The Odisha government, in its petition, informed the court that the three villages where elections are to be held this Saturday fall within Odisha and form part of 21 villages in respect of which a suit was filed in 1968 by Odisha before the Supreme Court. It alleged that the recent action taken by Andhra Pradesh was in violation of the status quo granted on December 2, 1968.While the hearing in the Kotia case is scheduled on February 19, a team of BJP officials, who had gone to Manikpatna village under Gangabada Grampanchayat in Gajapati district, found some Andhra officials, including an SP and Sub-Collector, discussing the modalities of conducting the gram panchayat polls. The officials fled the spot on Friday without being able to answer questions posed by Odisha BJP leaders touring the villages of Odisha-AP border in Koraput and Gajapati.Also read: India sends 22.9 mn doses of Covid-19 vaccines to 20 countries, more in pipelineThe BJP team led by Leader of Opposition Pradipta Naik said the team confronted the Andhra Pradesh officials about the intention of their visit. "The officials of Andhra Pradesh were trying to persuade the villagers to vote in the panchayat polls. When we asked the officials to show their documents to prove Andhra Pradesh's claim on Manikpatna, they left the place," said Naik.While Andhra Pradesh is staking its claim on three villages of Kotia gram panchayat of Koraput district, it is eyeing six other villages under the Gangabada gram panchayat of Gajapati district including Manikpatna. "The Andhra Pradesh officials have managed to persuade people of four villages to take part in panchayat polls. Even though Andhra Pradesh has been sending its officials to mislead our people, Odisha government has turned a mute spectator to this. The continuous negligence by the State government has led to such a situation. People do not even have the basic amenities here," said Bhrugu Buxipatra, BJP leader.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/after-kotia-andhra-officials-try-to-conduct-panchayat-polls-in-another-district-101613145037671.html
12-02-2021||Kolkata||BJP MLA who met CM Banerjee accuses MP of pressuring Shah on CAA||Biswajit Das, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislator who met West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee in her chamber at the state assembly on February 8, stoking speculations on his return to his old party, on Friday accused BJP Lok Sabha MP Shantanu Thakur of misleading the Dalit Matua community, which the latter belongs to, about the new citizenship law.Das also accused Thakur of "blackmailing the BJP" on the citizenship issue.The MLA made the statements at a press conference, a day after Union home minister Amit Shah announced during his visit to North 24 Parganas district’s Thakurnagar, the headquarters of the Matua community, that the Centre will enforce the citizenship law once Covid-19 vaccination across the country is over and the pandemic ends.The Centre is in the process of framing laws for the Citizenship (Amendment) Act which the Parliament passed last year. It offers citizenship to non-Muslims who entered India from Afghanistan, Pakistan and Bangladesh before 2015. CM Banerjee figures among the law’s staunch critics who insist that it is discriminatory and unconstitutional as it leaves out Muslims and links citizenship to faith in a secular country.“Shantanu Thakur is misleading the Matua community and pressuring the BJP leadership to enforce the new law as early as possible. Why this rush? The Matuas are simple people. This is unfair. Thakur is mobilising them for his political goal. He is blackmailing the party,” Das, who represents the Bongaon North assembly constituency in North 24 Parganas, said.Also read: ‘Very important business’ - BJP issues 3-line whip to Lok Sabha membersThakur is the Bongaon Lok Sabha MP and one of the heads of the Matua Mahasangha.“His statement clearly shows who is blackmailing whom. I did not introduce the CAA. It was done by the Union home minister and his ministry. Das has insulted Shah as well with such remarks. He possibly wants to return to the TMC. It was the Matua Mahasangha that decided who would address Thursday’s rally. If I tried to stop him from attending the event how could he appear on the dais?” Thakur told the media.The BJP wrested the Bongaon Lok Sabha seat in 2019 by fielding Thakur against his aunt and then sitting TMC MP Mamata Bala Thakur. There has been a split in Matua votes since then. Although the BJP won 18 of the state’s 42 Lok Sabha seats, Hindu backward class voters are now crucial for the saffron camp. The Matuas are a part of the three million strong Hindu Namasudra (Dalit) community that can influence poll results in around 80 of the state’s 294 assembly seats. The BJP aims to win at least 200.The Matuas, who support Thakur, have demanded immediate implementation of the citizenship law since these people came to West Bengal as refugees from East Pakistan in 1947 and after the 1971 Bangladesh Liberation War to escape religious persecution.There is resentment among a section of Bengal BJP leaders over the manner in which the rally Shah addressed was organised by the Matua community. There was no BJP flag at the venue and many BJP leaders, including Das, were not given the opportunity to address the crowd. Only the triangular yellow flags of the community were seen at the event.Seeking support of the Matuas in the coming polls, Shah also announced sops which he said would be delivered if the BJP comes to power in Bengal.“Some people are disgruntled because they were not allowed to speak and there were no BJP flags at the event. But one has to understand that it was organised by the Matuas and not our party. They invited Shah and some leaders. Das is not leaving the BJP. People are leaving the TMC and not joining it,” said BJP Bengal unit president Dilip Ghosh while making an effort to play down the wrangling.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bjp-mla-who-met-cm-banerjee-accuses-mp-of-pressuring-shah-on-caa-101613144028338.html
12-02-2021||Pune||School registration under RTE extended to Feb 15||The date for school registration under the Right to Education (RTE) has been extended until February 15. So far, 937 schools have registered in Pune district. The education department noted that the admission process will start soon. Dinkar Temkar, Maharashtra in-charge for RTE said that the registration date for schools was extended as many schools had not registered. “We are appealing to schools to register under the RTE. The last date was extended from January 31 to February 8 and now to February 15. Once the registration of schools is over, the admission process will start thereafter,” said Temkar. There are a total of 7,715 schools registered across Maharashtra so far with over 83,000 seats under the RTE. As of Friday evening, 937 schools have registered in Pune district against the total of 972. There are 13,998 seats which will be allocated under the RTE. It is mandatory for non-aided private schools to reserve 25 per cent seats under the RTE for students of economically backward sections at entry level of preschool and class 1. Education department officials with the Zilla Parishad (ZP) said that there are many schools which are still registering with us. “Some schools in the district may have shut in the last year due to the pandemic. So, the number of total schools may vary but not by much. We are hopeful that by February 15 all schools will register with us and then we will start the admission process under the RTE,” said officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/school-registration-under-rte-extended-to-feb-15-101613144787521.html
12-02-2021||Pune||22,943 missing mobile phone cases lodged in 2020: Pune police||Pune: Forgetting mobile phones in cafe, slipping from pocket while catching a bus or jogging are some of the common reasons given by the 22,943 Puneites who lost their handsets in 2020. Even as a major part of 2020 confined residents indoor, the Pune police “lost and found” online portal registered many cases related to missing mobile phones. The portal was started by the Pune police in 2017. “As most of the crime units are busy tracking other cases, we utilised technology to trace missing mobiles. We have a technical analysis cell, launched as a pilot project, where mobile experts track missing mobiles,” said Bachchan Singh, deputy commissioner of police, crime branch, Pune. The cell has managed to find 910 mobiles which were reactivated by using new SIM cards. Of these, 55 are found within Pune jurisdiction. “Of the 55 retrieved mobiles, we have identified and returned 35 to its owners,” he said. The probe revealed that some missing mobiles are active in states like Uttar Pradesh and Karnataka. In January 2021, the lost and found portal of Pune police received 3,282 complaints of missing mobiles. “I lost my mobile on Fergusson College road in November 2020, the Pune police managed to track it by December 27,” said Amol Shinde. Lost and some found The missing mobile phone cases registered at Pune police portal in 2020 January 3,282 February 2,914 March 2,206 April 620 May 1,079 June 1,136 July 1,417 August 1,895 September 1,757 October 2,319 November 2,269 December 2,049 Source: Crime Branch Pune Police||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/22943-missing-mobile-phone-cases-lodged-in-2020-pune-police-101613142326731.html
12-02-2021||Dehradun||Chamoli tragedy: Rescue agencies change tactic, focus on drilling into tunnel||After failing to get a breakthrough in clearing muck from the 1.7 kilometre-long tunnel at NTPC's hydel power project in Tapovan to reach the 35 workers trapped inside, the rescue agencies on Friday changed their tactic by focussing on drilling into the tunnel vertically 12.75 metres below the floor of the main tunnel.According to the officials of the 35 workers, about 30 workers are believed to be trapped in a small interconnected underground tunnel called slit flushing tunnel, 12.75 metres under the 1.7-kilometre tunnel, while the remaining are trapped in the big one at a distance of about 180 metres. The rescue agencies are drilling at a distance of about 72 metres in the big tunnel to reach out to the 30 workers.Gurdeep Singh, chairman and managing director, NTPC, who is at the spot to monitor the rescue operation, told media that, "The interconnected underground tunnel is about 12.75 metres deep under the 1.7-kilometre long one."Divisional commissioner Garhwal, Ravinath Raman, who is monitoring the rescue operation at the NTPC site, said, "On Thursday, the rescue agencies were able to drill up to 6 metres deep but after that, they had to stop as water started coming out. On Friday, they resumed drilling and till evening had drilled till 11.50 metres deep.""The drilling operation had to be stopped at 11.50 metres because of slush coming out. The slush is now being pumped out after which the drilling would resume which might take another 4-5 hours to complete," said Raman.Also read: Dozens dead, hundreds missing - What we know about Uttarakhand floods so farEarlier, the rescue workers who were clearing the muck from inside the tunnel failed to get any breakthrough due to heavy boulders and muck beyond 100 metres in the tunnel.Till Friday evening, they recovered three more bodies taking the confirmed death toll to 38 so far with bodies of 166 others yet to be recovered out of a total of 204 missing people in the disaster.Among the 38 bodies recovered, 11 were identified while 27 are yet to be identified.Nilesh Anand Bharne, deputy inspector general (law & order), said, "Of the total bodies recovered, 30 were found in Chamoli district, six in Rudraprayag district and one each from Tehri Garhwal and Pauri Garhwal districts. Apart from this, 18 mutilated body parts were also found from different places.""So far, the police have cremated 23 bodies and 10 body parts with complete rituals and respect. They have also collected DNA samples of all the bodies to ascertain their identity by matching them with that of their family members," said Bharne.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/chamoli-tragedy-rescue-agencies-change-tactic-focus-on-drilling-into-tunnel-101613140866812.html
12-02-2021||Pune||Pune-Satara highway will be ready in six months: Gadkari||PUNE: Union minister for road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari has assured to complete the long-pending Pune-Satara highway work in six months. Gadkari said, “The project has been pending for a long time. Now the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) is financing the project.” Baramati MP Supriya Sule had raised the highway issue during the question hour in Lok Sabha. With maximum stretch of the road passing from her constituency, Sule said, “Many accidents are reported on the Narhe and Katraj area stretch. Gadkari’s office immediately contacted me after I tweeted about the issue. Underpasses or flyovers need to be built at the Katraj stretch to streamline traffic.” Gadkari said, “Toll is collected on this route even as the work is incomplete. Work on four flyovers is pending on this stretch. While one will be completed in the next 25 days, rest will be ready in six months.” The Pune-Satara highway is one of the busy roads connecting Pune city. Major traffic of western Maharashtra gets connected to Pune and Mumbai by this road that passes from Pune city. The Katraj tunnel-Narhe stretch is an accident-prone spot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/punesatara-highway-will-be-ready-in-six-months-gadkari-101613140766607.html
12-02-2021||Pune||Vadgaon Maval court JMFC under ACB scanner in bribery case||Pune: A judicial magistrate first class (JMFC) attached to Vadgaon Maval court is under the radar of anti-corruption bureau (ACB) sleuths in connection with the arrest of an impostor woman who had accepted a bribe of ₹2.5 lakh stating that the decision will be done in favour of the complainant by “managing” the court that is handling the criminal case.The JMFC, who was in touch with the accused identified as Shubhavari Bhalchandra Gaikwad (29), a resident of Talegaon, has applied for anticipatory bail from the Pune district and sessions court. A first information report (FIR) was lodged at Dehu road police station under Sections 7 and 12 of Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 on January 14, according to the police.While hearing the anticipatory bail application of the JMFC, the district court in its order dated February 2 stated: “Read application. Heard learned advocate for the applicant. Perused FIR and the documents filed along with main application. Applicant is a judicial officer. From the documents, what appears is that she was in contact with main accused, namely, Shubhavari Gaikwad, who has been arrested in a trap laid by the anti­corruption bureau. On going through the statement of the applicant annexed to the application, there appears frequency of phone calls between herself and the main accused. The allegations are of very serious nature. Considering nature of allegations and considering the overall facts of the case, no interim relief can be granted to the public servant, unless opportunity of hearing is given to the State.”The FIR lodged by ACB stated that Gaikwad impersonated as a court employee and identified herself as one Mhatre Madam as an alias. Gaikwad said that she would “manage” a court case lodged by Amul Co-operative Dairy in favour of the milkman who has been made an accused in the case. The initial bribe amount demanded was ₹5 lakh.The case was filed as the milkman did not return the milk cooling machine to the company. She also made him speak to two persons claiming that they were judges. Instead, the milkman approached ACB sleuths and lodged a complaint against Gaikwad. She was caught red-handed with a bribe amount of ₹50,000 at Kiwale phata on January 13. The bribe was scaled down to ₹2.50 lakh as the milkman expressed his inability of pay the said amount followed by negotiations, the FIR stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/vadgaon-maval-court-jmfc-under-acb-scanner-in-bribery-case-101613139086485.html
12-02-2021||Other||ZP floats tenders for private players to run water supply to 50 villages in rural Pune||PUNE In order to regulate the water supply to rural areas and to en-sure proper collection of water charges from the far-spread villages in Pune’s rural areas, the district administration has sought private players to run the water supply to about 50 vil-lages. Currently, the Zilla Parishad is running at a ₹8 crore loss, as it has not been able to recover the infrastructure cost and does not have machinery in place to recover water charges efficiently. With a private player in place the administration also hopes to minimise leakages and wastage of water. Zilla Parishad chief executive officer Ayush Prasad said, “This is the first time we are engaging private players for ad-ministrative work. As of now, we do provide quality water but there are issues with regards to collection of water charges. The tenders have been floated for eight regional areas from rural pune which would cover approximately 50 villages. This is just a pilot project and we will see how it goes. The water charges collected from the villages will be shared as per the approved tender between the ZP and the private entity. The private organisation can use innovative ideas including meter systems to ensure that there is regular water supply and also that there is no wastage of water. However, they would not be allowed to charge more than the current rates, which are as per the respective gram panchayats.”Pune Zilla Parishad has 1,405 gram panchayats in its jurisdic-tion, of which 50 will be covered under the regional schemes, while others have water supply regulated by the respective gram panchayats. Although the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) started a meter water supply initiative under its 24x7 water supply scheme, it has not been able to connect as many households as the scheme aimed to do.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/zp-floats-tenders-for-private-players-to-run-water-supply-to-50-villages-in-rural-pune-101613138426486.html
12-02-2021||Jaipur||279 Cases of officers arrested for bribery pending approval in Rajasthan: BJP MLA||Senior BJP MLA Gulab Chand Kataria on Friday said that 279 cases of officers arrested by the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) in the state while taking bribes were pending for departmental approval for action.During Zero Hour in the Rajasthan Assembly while praising the work of ACB officers in arresting corrupt officials, he said that it is fortunate for the state the way the ACB has tightened its noose on such officials but sad that despite efforts action is not being taken. "From 2013 to 2021, 279 cases were pending for department approval and action is not being taken despite all efforts. A wrong message is going in public," the Leader of Opposition said in the House. He said that as per the Supreme Court's directions, approval should be given by the government within three months. Cases are pending from years and the morale of corrupt officials is high. So, approval should be given at the earliest so that action can be taken. The former home minister said that after keeping a case pending for a long time, department disapproves it for action. He said that if a case has to be disapproved then it should be sent in three-four months but keeping it pending for years breaks the morale of honest officers. Targeting the state government, Kataria said that speaking about zero-tolerance policy against corruption is easy buy keeping the pendency for long is a conspiracy to flourish corruption.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/279-cases-of-officers-arrested-for-bribery-pending-approval-in-rajasthan-bjp-mla-101613136701759.html
12-02-2021||Kolkata||BJP rath yatra stopped for 3rd time in Bengal’s Murshidabad||By Sreyasi PalThe Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Friday had to stop its rath yatra, a grand pre-election roadshow christened 'Parivartan Yatra' (journey for change), for the third time in West Bengal’s Murshidabad district.The incident took place at Manigram in the Sagardighi police station area, BJP leaders alleged. No police officer from the area was willing to comment despite repeated queries.The BJP planned five roadshows in the run-up to the assembly polls due in April-May. Four of these have been flagged off. The roadshows will pass through the state’s 294 assembly constituencies of which the BJP has sworn to win at least 200.BJP leaders present at the roadshow in Murshidabad claimed that the police stopped them saying supporters of the 12-hour general strike called by the Congress and Left parties had blocked the road but they could not see any mass agitation in progress.Also read: 'Suffocated' - Trinamool's Dinesh Trivedi announces resignation from Rajya SabhaThe strike was called in protest against baton charge and use of tear gas shells during an agitation in Kolkata and Howrah by youth and student fronts of Bengal’s Left parties, including the CPI(M), on Thursday.BJP's Murshidabad (north) unit president Sujit Das said, "The local police were aware of the route. They stopped us and said that some bandh supporters had blocked the road. But we could not see any blockade. We were later told that some local people were offering Friday prayers on the thoroughfare.”Bengal’s Muslim population stood at 27.01 per cent during the 2011 census and is projected to have increased to around 30 per cent now. At 66.28 per cent, the population is highest in Murshidabad district.On Friday afternoon, the vehicles in the roadshow travelled from Jangipur to Sagardighi assembly constituency. These were allowed to proceed after about two hours. There was an altercation between the police and BJP leaders. The BJP leaders, including Rajesh Kumar from Uttarakhand, got off the leading bus, referred to as the rath or chariot, and walked for three kilometres.Das alleged that the police were making excuses to stop the roadshow in Murshidabad. "Every other day they are coming up with some new excuse,” he said.Gautam Ghosh, the Murshidabad district spokesperson of Trinamool Congress (TMC), said, “The BJP is trying to mislead people through these roadshows. Only a handful of people are participating in it. So, the party is creating some drama to make news. If the administration stopped the roadshow there must have been some valid reason.”This was the third time the BJP had to either stop the roadshow or change its route in the district.On Tuesday, the police asked the party to change its route in view of chief minister Mamata Bannerjee’s election rally. The TMC chief on Tuesday started her two-day tour of Murshidabad, Malda, North Dinajpur and East Burdwan, the districts with the highest Muslim populations in Bengal.On Monday, BJP workers held agitation for almost two hours at Beldanga after the police stopped the roadshow. The BJP wanted the roadshow to pass through Beldanga, Nowda and Hariharpara but was told to follow NH-34 instead. BJP leaders were told that there could be communal tension if the roadshow passed through these regions since Muslims comprise a major chunk of the local population.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bjp-rath-yatra-stopped-for-3rd-time-in-bengal-s-murshidabad-101613133203469.html
12-02-2021||Pune||Short circuit caused fire at Serum Institute: Ajit Pawar||Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar on Friday said the fire that broke out at the Serum Institute of India (SII) here last month, in which five persons died, was caused due to short circuit.Five labourers had died in the fire that broke out in a five-storey building in the SII's Manjari premises in Pune on January 21. However, the Covishield vaccine production was not impacted due to the blaze.Pawar, while addressing the media after the annual general meeting of districts under Pune division ahead of the state budget, said he had visited the institute after the fire in the presence of senior officials, including the collector."The premises where the blaze erupted was empty and work was going on there. It is a private institute and they are carrying out their audit. The government is also investigating. There is no other cause behind the fire other than short circuit," he said.Speaking about the vaccination drive against Covid-19, Pawar said Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan had initially given a statement that the Centre will be providing vaccination to all."He later gave a statement that they will be providing vaccine to three crore people, including paramedical staff and security forces. And now, he has again given a statement that 30 crore people will be given the vaccine," Pawar said."The health minister has been giving different statements, but if you ask the state government's opinion, every state feels that it is the Centre's responsibility to provide the vaccine," he added.If all states request the Centre, it will have to accept their demand, he said.Meanwhile, Pawar reiterated that Shiv Jayanti or the birth anniversary of Chhatrapati Shivaji should be celebrated in a simple manner in view of the pandemic."Not more than 100 people should gather at one place for the celebrations," he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/short-circuit-caused-fire-at-serum-institute-ajit-pawar-101613133918525.html
12-02-2021||Other||Public amenity space lease policy: Fadnavis suggests PMC to include tourism benefit||Pune: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has been unable to make public the amenity spaces lease out policy draft as the Opposition has questioned its purpose. Now, former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis in his Thursday visit to PMC has suggested the civic administration to introduce tourism aspect in the policy and present it as a revenue generating model that will benefit all stakeholders. With civic body polls slated to be held next year, Fadnavis visited the PMC headquarters and reviewed development projects. PMC commissioner Vikram Kumar and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders discussed the amenity spaces lease out policy issue with Fadnavis. BJP-ruled PMC has taken a wait and see stand regarding the policy draft as it fears challenge from civic activists and the public that could adversely affect the upcoming civic elections. Fadnavis’s suggestion to PMC During the meeting, Fadnavis said, “As per the drafted policy, PMC will not get a positive response in terms of revenue for 30 years of lease and it does not have the powers to lease out the amenity spaces for long term (99 years). PMC will have to forward the proposal to the state government urban development department for approval and it may take time to get the sanction.” According to Fadnavis, during the BJP-Shiv Sena government, a provision was made in the tourism policy to allow municipal corporations to lease out amenity spaces on 99-year lease. “There was no need to take permission from the state government,” he said. BJP insists for long-term lease Hemant Rasne, PMC standing committee chairman said, “As Fadnavis has suggested to seek for long-term lease for amenity spaces under the tourism policy, we have instructed the administration to look for this option. The amenity spaces will be rented out as per Pune Municipal Corporation Property Rent Rules-2008 (Milkat Vatap Niyamavali). The lease out period as per these rules is only 30 years. If we want to lease for longer period, we have to terminate the lease after 30 years and make a new contract every 30 years. It is a tiresome process and private firms will not show interest to take PMC properties on lease.” Rajendra Muthe, deputy commissioner of estate and management department, said that long-term lease may get good response. “We will check the norms mentioned in the state government tourism policy and incorporate in the amenity spaces lease out policy draft,” he said. Rate of lease As per the policy draft, PMC has set lease rent of 125 per cent on Ready Reckoner. The rate of immovable property is based on market value and stamp duty charged as per Maharashtra Stamp Act, 1958. The annual statement rate determined by the state government differs as per urban, influence and rural areas. Development of amenity spaces According to a civic official, development of amenity space may be carried out by the authority or the private developer may be allowed to develop as per priorities after getting the okay from the municipal commissioner. The priority for development of particular amenity, namely playground, garden, park, school, hospital, dispensary, fire brigade station, police station, electric substation, parking and other services, in residential areas shall be decided by the municipal commissioner. If the municipal commissioner is of the opinion that an amenity space is not required for the above mentioned purposes then the owner may be allowed to develop other amenities after getting the former’s approval.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/public-amenity-space-lease-policy-fadnavis-suggests-pmc-to-include-tourism-benefit-101613133326167.html
12-02-2021||Bangalore||Kichcha Sudeep: I don’t believe in stardom, I just believe in saleability||He is one of Kannada cinema’s biggest stars, but Kichcha Sudeep exudes humility that few actors with his fan following would. Having just completed 25 years in the film industry, the 47-year-old is looking forward to the release of Vikrant Rona, the world’s first film that unraveled its logo at Dubai’s tallest building, Burj Khalifa. In a late night chat with us, the actor, filmmaker and television host talks competition, aversion to tags, and why he thought he wasn’t big enough to have a make up man for years. Excerpts:How does it feel hitting the 25 year milestone? The feeling remains the same, it doesn’t make a difference. I feel 25 glorious years for me is the fact that I survived for 25 years, because this field has got too much competition and things happening these days. First of all, your fans show loyalty, they stick to your films, and come to the theatres to watch you even after all these years. That’s a blessing. That I managed to be around for these years and maintain a certain positioning, a lot of people’s contribution went into that. I’m happy I’m still being able to do what I do, just like how I started my first day. I feel the same about films.It must have been a special moment to see the Burj Khalifa light up in Dubai recently, to celebrate your journey, along with the launch of your next film Vikrant Rona, isn’t it? Whatever happened was an entire team’s effort. It takes certain money. Even when Dubai wanted to host me for this milestone... I didn’t expect all this to happen in my life, I’m just going out and doing my job, the producers of Vikrant Rona wanted to do certain things. When somebody starts believing in your product, it makes you get up earlier and work better. The way people gathered there irrespective of the Covid situation… there are humongous restrictions in Dubai, not more than seven people can stand anywhere, there’s a penalty. Keeping all that aside, they wanted to stand. It was a precious moment, and it belongs to my team. Tell us something about Vikrant Rona, what made you say yes to it? It is good content, and not just visually grand. I don’t accept films because they are being made on a grand scale. At the end of the day, no matter how much you spend, you need to tell a story. That is bigger. If it is not the best story in the world, that’s okay, it should satisfy people enough to buy a ticket. Visualisation and other things are about how to tell that story. I was convinced that this is the way I wanted to tell this story. When the director narrated it to me, it was a small story, we made it big. It’s beautiful content.What was that point in your career when you realised you had made it big? I’m not being modest, but I don’t believe in stardom, I just believe in saleability. That’s the valuation every actor has. We are not valued by the number of fans we have, but the collections we get at the box office. We all have a fan following, what makes you what you are is the revenue your film gets. That’s the positioning I am talking about. So far, I am still being able to do certain things, have people investing in them, have writers wake up in the morning and write for me. That is a blessing which I am still enjoying.Not many people know that you still have the same make-up man today, with whom you worked on your first day on set… He was a temporary back then when he started. I didn’t have a make-up person for years, I hadn’t probably grown to a position where I could say I want a personal make up man! The day I saw he’s not having too much work, in the later years, I called him and asked if he would like to stay with me. I had this emotion too that this person had put the first ever make up on me. He’s a very good guy, a gentleman to have around.High points have been aplenty, but have there been any low points too so far? My lowest phases have been my highest. They are the only learning points for me, I never learnt anything from my successes. I have never learnt anything from my good moments. The lowest phase makes you stay with it for a longer time, whether you like it or not. In the beginning, we all think time has been unkind, people have been... that too, all these thoughts come, but after some time, you start feeling it was right. You realise you didn’t do something right, and learn from that. My career’s lowest phases have been the most beautiful. I don’t think I would have been able to be here without them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/kichcha-sudeep-i-don-t-believe-in-stardom-i-just-believe-in-saleability-101613131106680.html
12-02-2021||City||Pandemic effect: Goa sees 33% fewer narcotics cases in 2020, lowest since 2016||Goa has seen a more than 30 per cent reduction in drug-related cases throughout 2020 as compared to previous years with the total number of registered narcotics-related cases falling to 148, the lowest since 2016, statistics provided by the Goa Home Department have revealed.The state recorded over 200 cases registered per year across 2018 and 2019 and saw the figure fall to 148 across 2020 - a fall of 33 per cent. The reduction is largely being blamed on the pandemic-induced lockdown and shuttering of the tourism industry including the party hotspots for most of the last year.Despite the ban on foreign tourist arrivals on account of the Covid-19 pandemic, the percentage of foreigners who have been arrested or booked in narcotics-related cases has continued to remain around 20 per cent of the total number of people arrested.Also read: 'Suffocated' =Trinamool's Dinesh Trivedi announces resignation from Rajya SabhaThirty-six of the 172 people arrested in 2020 were foreigners held in possession of banned substances.Goa, which was witnessing between 50 and 60 narcotics-related cases, witnessed a sudden jump in 2017 when the number of cases touched 168 and increased further to 222 in 2018 and stayed at 219 in 2019.The police, however, claim that despite the fall in the number of drug cases, the value of the narcotics seized across 2020 was higher than the previous years.According to Goa Police records, the police had seized narcotics drugs worth ₹6.7 crore in 2020 as compared to 2019 when the total seizures amounted to ₹5.5 crore.According to police records, two significant raids - one on a cannabis plantation at Keri in Pernem in North Goa in mid-October 2020 in which drugs worth around ₹1.10 crore were seized, and another one in Morjim at a beach village in North Goa in March before the lockdown in which drugs worth ₹1.65 crore were seized - have tilted the scales helping the police seize drugs of higher value as compared to the previous years.The police also busted an ‘underground’ rave party that was held immediately after the lockdown began to be lifted when such parties were still not allowed. Drugs worth ₹9-lakh, including cocaine, MDMA besides marijuana, were seized.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pandemic-effect-goa-sees-33-fewer-narcotics-cases-in-2020-lowest-since-2016-101613130238314.html
12-02-2021||Other||Rear-end collisions biggest cause of fatal 2-wheeler accidents in 2020||PUNE An analysis conducted by the Pune Traffic Branch has revealed that of the 87 fatal two-wheeler deaths in accidents on Pune roads in 2020, as many as 35 riders died after their bikes were rammed by a speeding vehicle from the rear.Also, as many as 16 two-wheeler riders died after they fell off their bikes while riding.The data collated by the traffic branch states that as many as eight accidents resulted in eight fatalities due to head-on collisions, while four persons were killed after their two-wheeler was hit by a speeding vehicle coming from the right.Six two-wheeler riders died after crashing against the road dividers, while two persons died while colliding against walls, iron rods and trees. One person died while dashing a parked two-wheeler, while five persons died when their bikes met with accidents involving other two-wheelers. As many as ten bike riders were killed after they directly came under the wheels of heavy vehicles.DCP (Traffic) Rahul Srirame said that the study was undertaken from the point of view of creating a safe city for two-wheeler riders in Pune. “The analysis is an attempt to find out the exact cause behind the fatalities involving two-wheeler riders. The survey aims at making the two-wheeler riders aware of the reason behind the accidents and make their lives safe and secure for future,” DCP Srirame said.Causes of fatal two-wheeler accidents in 2020•206 two-wheeler and pillion riders died in 2019, 18 of whom were wearing helmets.•The number of accidental deaths involving two-wheeler riders in 2017 was 212; while the same was 193 in 2018.Collision from rear endNumber of accidents: 33Deaths: 35Head-on collisionNumber of accidents: 8Deaths: 8Collision from right side of vehicleNumber of accidents: 3Deaths: 4Slipped off two-wheelerNumber of accidents: 14Deaths: 16Dashing against road dividerNumber of accidents: 6Deaths: 6Crashing into wall, iron bars and treesNumber of accidents: 2Deaths: 2Ramming into parked vehiclesNumber of accidents: 1Deaths: 1Accidents involving other two-wheelersNumber of accidents: 5Deaths: 5Run-over casesCases of of accidents: 10Deaths: 10Total accidents: 82Deaths: 87Source: Pune Traffic Police||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rearend-collisions-biggest-cause-of-fatal-2-wheeler-accidents-in-2020-101613129307679.html
12-02-2021||Chandigarh||9 days before her wedding, Ludhiana man kills daughter, wife||A 65-year-old factory worker attacked his wife and daughter with a hammer when they were asleep at Sherpur Kalan village in Ludhiana district on Friday morning, nine days before his daughter’s wedding. Police said his 60-year-old wife died on the spot, while his 30-year-old daughter succumbed to injuries at a local hospital in the afternoon. After committing the crime around 6am, the accused locked the house and fled before calling up his nephew at 7.45am. He told him that he was going to end his life by jumping into the Sidhwan canal near Doraha. He said the nephew could go and check what he had done at his house and even told him where he had hidden the house keys. The reason behind his taking the extreme step is yet to be ascertained. The police recovered the hammer from the house and found his scooter near the canal. Search launched for accused A search is on for the accused and the services of divers have been requisitioned. His nephew said: “I tried to convince my uncle to change his mind and return but he was adamant. I informed the villagers and we opened the gate in the presence of the police. We were shocked to find the mother dead and the daughter unconscious in their rooms.” Inspector Pramod Kumar, the station house officer Moti Nagar police station, said that the daughter was rushed to hospital, where she died. He said the wife was attacked first after which the accused hit the daughter with the hammer. Additional deputy commissioner of police Rupinder Kaur Saran said the reason behind the crime is being investigated. The wedding was fixed on February 21 and the family had sent a formal invite to the groom’s family in Rupnagar on Thursday. The bride was a postgraduate and had done well in her IELTS exam. She was to take the prelims exam of the Punjab Public Service Commission on Saturday. The accused used to work as a mason before he got a job in a forging mill in Ludhiana’s Focal Point. Similar crime involving realtor in November Ludhiana had witnessed a similar crime on November 24, 2020, when a 60-year-old realtor murdered his 58-year-old wife, 35-year-old son, 32-year-old daughter-in-law and 12-year-old grandson with an axe and knife before fleeing in his car only to set it ablaze 4km from his house. A suicide note recovered from the house said he had taken the extreme step as his daughter-in-law used to threaten to implicate him in a fake dowry case. The realtor said in the note that the family members of his daughter-in-law had not returned his money and were trying to extort more from him by threatening him with false charges. On the same day, he committed suicide by jumping before a train in Jagraon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/9-days-before-her-wedding-ludhiana-man-kills-daughter-wife-101613128646724.html
12-02-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka home minister gives police a new target: Crack the dark web||Following a year-long crackdown on drug rackets in Bengaluru, Karnataka home minister Basavaraj Bommai has asked the Karnataka police to focus on a new target – the dark web. Bommai said the dark web is the new source of cybercrimes, drugs, and illegal arms. He added there is a need for investing more resources into fighting cybercrimes.The new directions were given during the annual meeting of senior police officers in Bengaluru on Friday. Also Read | K’taka’s anti-cow slaughter law hits supplies, industry worth ₹500 cr affectedChief minister BS Yediyurappa, who chaired the meeting, said that the government would give all support to equip the force to fight cybercrime, which has emerged as “the biggest challenge for the state police.”Officials, who were part of the review, quoted Bommai saying the police have cracked some cases but they were only the tip of the iceberg. He is learnt to have said that the force needs to be alert to the possibility of illegal weapons also being procured through the darknet, something that is happening in other global metropolitan cities.A police officer said that there have been several cases, where police have caught peddlers who procured drugs from abroad using the dark web.Police have arrested 25-year-old Srikrishna, who had allegedly hacked into three bitcoin exchanges, multiple online poker apps, and one government e-procurement website. Bitcoins worth ₹9 crore were recovered from him, which he had either stolen using data theft or through online extortion.Investigators said that Srikrishna would encrypt data and demand payment from owners for sites to be unlocked by attacking the sites online. He was caught after police arrested some drug dealers to whom he had allegedly sold drugs procured from the dark web. Astonished by the technical Srikrishna’s skills, Bengaluru police had decided to create new standard operating procedures for tackling cybercrimes, people aware of the matter said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-home-minister-gives-police-a-new-target-crack-the-dark-web-101613128526655.html
12-02-2021||Patna||Tej Pratap Yadav bombards President with postcards seeking Lalu's release||RJD leader Tej Pratap Yadav has started a campaign to press the demand for the release of his ailing septuagenarian father Lalu Prasad from custody in his characteristic maverick style.Yadav, the elder son of former chief ministers Prasad and Rabri Devi, on Thursday marched to the General Post Office here, along with hundreds of supporters who carried bundles of postcards addressed to President Ramnath Kovind seeking release of the jailed party supremo."We are here with lakhs of 'azadi patras' (petitions seeking freedom) in the interests of a socialist movement that is being undertaken in Bihar. We hope the President will heed the voice of the people," said Yadav, who is known to be a doting son to the RJD boss.Prasad, who is serving sentences in a number of fodder scam cases in Jharkhand, carved out of Bihar, is at present in Delhi undergoing treatment for multiple ailments.In his late 70s, the leader, who had also served as the railway minister in the UPA-1 government, is a diabetic and suffers from a heart condition and kidney problems.He has been granted bail by the Jharkhand High Court in some of the cases but he needs to secure the same in a few others in order to be freed from custody.When asked about the campaign, RJD state spokesman Chitaranjan Gagan said, "It is, of course, a personal initiative of Tej Pratap Yadav but the party does back it since the matter involves our undisputed leader."The move, however, met with strong disapproval from BJP Rajya Sabha member Sushil Kumar Modi, the former deputy chief minister of Bihar who has been the foremost bte noire of the proverbial "first family" of the RJD.In a couple of tweets, he pointed out that Prasad was convicted after a "prolonged legal battle" and "legal wizards like Ram Jethmalani could neither save him from punishment nor help him get bail".In an indirect reference to Tej Pratap Yadav having been overshadowed by his younger brother Tejashwi, Modi added "the sidelined prince of RJD is now trying to create mistrust in the judiciary by the gimmickry of sending two lakh postcards to the President".Modi also referred to the RJD's dismal performance in the Lok Sabha polls of 2019, when it drew a blank, and Prasad's attempts to topple the NDA government after the recent assembly elections, in which the party won the maximum number of seats but the coalition helmed by it fell short of getting majority.An official of the postal department said postcards found to be in order will be dispatched."This episode is amusing and puzzling. But the postal department will have to do its job. Postcards found to be in order will be dispatched. Others will go back to the senders," said a department official requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/tej-pratap-yadav-bombards-president-with-postcards-seeking-lalu-s-release-101613128173263.html
12-02-2021||Dehradun||Lake formed near Raini village in Joshimath being monitored: Uttarakhand CM||A lake that has formed near Raini village in Joshimath after the glacier burst that caused massive destruction in the state is being monitored, said Uttarakhand Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Friday."We've information about a lake that has been formed near Raini village in Joshimath. The lake is being monitored through satellites. Right now, we need to be cautious, but there is nothing to be worried about. It is about 400 meters wide. We do not know the depth. A team of scientists will visit the site to keep a check on it. They will air-dropped on the site for 3-4 hours through a helicopter and will submit a report. The Air Force is ready for this," Rawat told media here.Meanwhile, the death toll in the Uttarakhand glacier burst incident reached 37 after one more body was recovered from the riverbank near Maithana village on Friday.The rescue operations that were temporarily halted following a rise in the level of water in the Rishiganga River yesterday will also be resumed today, said Uttarakhand Director-General of Police (DGP) Ashok Kumar."The rescue team will resume the drilling operation in the Tapovan tunnel to gain entry into a smaller tunnel which is 12 meters below the existing tunnel as there is a possibility of human presence there," he said."Out of the bodies, 10 have been identified. Last rites will be performed for the unidentified bodies after preserving their DNA," he added.Meanwhile, the government has started the distribution of ex-gratia of ₹4 lakh each to the kin of those who lost their lives due to the glacial burst in Chamoli.The Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) personnel are distributing rations and essential items in Suki, Lata and Bhalgaun villages that were cut off due to a flash flood in Dhauli Ganga.A glacier broke in the Tapovan-Reni area of Chamoli District of Uttarakhand on Sunday, which led to massive flooding in Dhauliganga and Alaknanda rivers and damaged houses and the nearby Rishiganga power project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/lake-formed-near-raini-village-in-joshimath-being-monitored-uttarakhand-cm-101613127207626.html
12-02-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka: BJP finally pulls up Yatnal for his tirade against CM Yediyurappa||Basanagouda Ramanagouda Patil (Yatnal), the firebrand Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislator from Vijayapura in Karnataka, on Friday was served a show-cause notice for his relentless tirade against chief minister BS Yediyurappa. “A notice has been issued today [Friday],” confirmed a BJP legislator, requesting not to be named. He added that Yatnal may be given 15 days to respond. The show-cause notice comes after weeks of Yatnal’s attacks against Yediyurappa.Also Read | K’taka’s anti-cow slaughter law hits supplies, industry worth ₹500 cr affectedYatnal had made several statements indicative of a change in leadership in the state. But the silence by the party’s central leadership on his comments raised doubts about the BJP taking any action against Yatnal, which in turn further fuelled speculation that the high command had indeed isolated Yediyurappa. “Our Prime Minister’s dreams are development, end of dynasty politics, corruption-free government. I will request our national president that only one person from a household should be given power. It cannot be that there is an MP, MLC, MLA, board heads and even people in-charge of party affairs from only one family,” a disgruntled Yatnal had said on January 21, after he was not given a place in the Cabinet after its expansion. He has also, on multiple occasions, claimed that 77-year-old Yediyurappa would be replaced. Yatnal is also an active participant in the ongoing Panchamsali Lingayat padayatra or march by one of the most dominant and politically influential communities. The Panchamsali, the largest sect within the dominant Lingayat community, have demanded that their existing reservation category be changed from 3B to 2A. Despite assurances from Yediyurappa to review and study the socio-economic conditions of the community, the campaign continues. The 465km march from Kudalasangama will culminate in Bengaluru with a rally scheduled o February 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-bjp-finally-pulls-up-yatnal-for-his-tirade-against-cm-yediyurappa-101613127086397.html
12-02-2021||Delhi||Traffic Police, DSLSA to organise 'Ghar Ghar Lok Adalat'||The Traffic Police is coordination with the Delhi State Legal Services Authority will organise 'Ghar Ghar Lok Adalat' at all district court complexes of the national capital for smooth settlement of traffic challans, officials said on Friday.The ''Ghar Ghar Lok Adalat'' will be held at district court complexes of Tis Hazari, Saket, Karkardooma, Patiala House, Rohini and Dwarka on Sunday from 10 am to 3.30 pm, police said.The Authority has taken such an initiative for the first time, they said.In addition to the court complexes, 33 other locations, including community centres and school premises, have also been added to the list of venues to carry out smooth settlement of traffic challans, police added.Joint Commissioner of Police (Traffic) Manish Kumar Agarwal said the Authority in coordination with the Traffic Police is organising 'ghar ghar lok adalat' for amicable settlement of traffic challans in all District Court Complexes in Delhi in addition to 33 other locations on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/traffic-police-dslsa-to-organise-ghar-ghar-lok-adalat-101613125870600.html
12-02-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: Man vandalised Shiv lingam as he was ‘not cured of ailment despite praying’||A 24-year-old man who has been arrested for allegedly vandalising an ancient Shiv lingam and an idol of Bhairav baba at a temple in Almora district, told the police that he did so as “Bhairav baba didn’t heal him” of his ailment Pankaj Bhatt, senior superintendent of police, Almora said, “We had identified the accused after scanning CCTV camera footage around the Bhairav temple and nearby areas. When we took the man into custody, he told us everything. He not only confessed to the crime but also helped us recover the ancient Shiv lingam and an idol on Thursday.” Dwarahat area of Almora is famous for ancient temples and historical monuments in Uttarakhand. Also Read | Uttarakhand glacier burst: No headway in rescue work at Tapovan tunnelThe Almora Police had lodged a case against unnamed persons under sections 379 (theft) and 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of ₹50) on the complaint of Neeru Lohni, an official of the archaeology department after the theft and vandalism came to light. The man was identified as Tara Singh Rana of Chitailigad village. “Rana said that he suffered from severe pain in his legs since he was in Class 12. Rana was advised if he worshipped Bhairav baba in the temple of Dwarahat, his pain would reduce,” said Bhatt. The SSP said when he failed to feel better even after worshipping him for years, annoyed, he decided to destroy the idol of Bhairav baba. He not only vandalised the idol of Bhairav Baba, but also the ancient Shiv lingam, which he broke on Tuesday, he said. “He hid them near a school in the village and the next day he threw them in a sewage pit in anger. He will be produced in court on Friday,” said Bhatt.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-man-vandalised-shiv-lingam-as-he-was-not-cured-of-ailment-despite-praying-101613126006548.html
12-02-2021||Chandigarh||HC stays redetermined relief to Punjab minister Sodhi’s family||The Punjab and Haryana high court has stayed the disbursement of redetermined compensation to the family of Punjab minister Gurmeet Singh Rana Sodhi in the land acquisition pertaining to 2012.The division bench of justices Augustine George Masih and Meenakshi I Mehta issued notice of motion to the Sodhi family and fixed the next hearing on May 19. On February 2, the Punjab public works department (PWD) had filed a letter patents appeal (LPA), challenging the single bench order in the contempt petition filed by the minister’s brother Guru Hardeep Singh in 2018 for the implementation of the order of the Ferozepur additional district and sessions court to give redetermined compensation to the family under the new land acquisition law. The February 9 HC order reads, “The disbursal of the amount to respondent Guru Hardeep Singh and others shall remain stayed till further orders.” During the LPA hearing on February 9, the state counsel for the PWD in HC said in compliance with the February 2 order, the redetermined amount was deposited with the Ferozepur additional district judge a day before. The counsel submitted that the review application, alleging fraud played on the court, was filed on November 27, 2020, but the same has not come up for hearing in the Supreme Court. “In the light of the fraud, the disbursement of the amount, in pursuance of the order passed by the single judge bench, be kept in abeyance,” the counsel demanded. On February 2, principal secretary (PWD) Vikas Pratap submitted in the HC during the LPA hearing that he would be depositing the amount as re-determined by the collector within a week.While hearing the contempt petition on December 17, the bench of justice Nirmaljit Kaur directed the state to deposit the re-determined compensation with the concerned court in a week and it be disbursed to the petitioner provided he furnished security of the “like amount”. On January 12, the bench of justice Harinder Singh Sidhu again directed the state that the respondent (state) shall be bound to deposit the amount before the next date of hearing (February 18). On December 29, the PWD had filed a recovery suit against minister Sodhi, alias Guru Gurmeet Singh and his brother Guru Hardeep Singh and nephews, Prabhjot Singh and Jasdeep Singh in the Guruharsahai court for pocketing double compensation against a piece of land acquired by the state government for a road project. One Joginder Singh has also been named in the petition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-stays-redetermined-relief-to-punjab-minister-sodhi-s-family-101613125466479.html
12-02-2021||Bhopal||MP high court grants bail to two co-accused in Munawar Faruqui case||The Madhya Pradesh high court on Friday granted bail to Prakhar Vyas, 24, and Edwin Anthony, 23, who were arrested along with comedian Munawar Faruqui on January 1 for allegedly hurting religious sentiments and violating Covid-19 protocol at a New Year show in Indore.Vyas’s lawyer, Ajay Bagadia, said the two got bail on the basis of interim bail granted by the Supreme Court to Faruqui last week. “The apex court had found a violation of Section 41 of CrPC in Faruqi’s case as police can arrest a person in a case having a provision of punishment of over three years only after preliminary investigation.”Also Read | A day after release from jail, Munawar Faruqui says ‘justice will prevail’Vyas and Anthony, both MBA students, spent 42 days in jail. They were the organisers of the show at a local restaurant in Indore. Vyas had called Faruqui for the show, Bagadia said.Nalin Yadav and Sadaqat Khan are still in jail in the case. The high court rejected Yadav’s bail on January 27. A sessions court has rejected Khan’s bail twice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/mp-high-court-grants-bail-to-two-co-accused-in-munawar-faruqui-case-101613123186182.html
12-02-2021||Delhi||HC adjourns plea seeking to defer surrender of prisoners above 65 to Feb 22||The Delhi High Court on Friday adjourned the matter to February 22 on a plea seeking direction to the Delhi Government and Director General of Prisons to defer the surrender of prisoners above 65 years and those suffering from comorbidities.In light of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, the plea also prayed that emergency parole to such prisoners be extended for a further period and such prisoners may be directed to be surrender after the surrender of all other prisoners, in the larger interest of prisoners and jail administration.The matter got adjourn for February 22, 2021, after the Bench of Justice DN Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh didn't assemble.The plea also states that the situation in Delhi jails is not such that one room or barrack can be provided to each infected prisoner because a number of prisoners are lodged together in a single barrack or room.Delhi jails have the capacity to retain 10,026 prisoners only and at present, about 14,000 prisoners are lodged, excluding about 4,000 prisoners who are presently released on interim bail or emergency parole, read the plea."It is, therefore, clear that social distancing cannot be maintained as the Tihar jails are overly crowded and in case 4,000 prisoners surrender, the situation may worsen in Tihar jails and the same would be detrimental and adversely affect prisoners and jail administration as well," the plea said.It further stated that age increases the risk for severe illness due to Covid-19, therefore, the aforesaid issue requires detailed deliberations and the accused, in any case, must be directed to surrender in a phased manner considering age, disability, and medical ailments or conditions of prisoners.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/hc-adjourns-plea-seeking-to-defer-surrender-of-prisoners-above-65-to-feb-22-101613119722159.html
12-02-2021||Other||Man’s body found on railway track in UP’s Amethi||The body of a 20-year-old man was found on a railway track in Uttar Pradesh’s Amethi district on Friday a day after he was reported missing. Government Railway Police (GRP) superintendent Saumitra Yadav said they recovered the body in two pieces. Yadav added the head was found on track while the remaining body nearby. “The spot examination suggested that the deceased had himself placed his head on the track to kill himself. No struggle marks have been found on the spot.”Also Read | No passenger death due to train accident in last 22 months: Railways ministerShyam Sunder, a local police officer, said the man was reported missing on Thursday. “His body was found on the railway track while the family members were searching for him. The case, however, is being handled by GRP as the deceased is run over by a train.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mans-body-found-on-railway-track-in-up-s-amethi-101613119166245.html
12-02-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand glacier burst: 36 bodies recovered, 10 identified, 168 still missing||The rescue workers continued clearing muck from the 1.7km-long tunnel in NTPC’s hydel power project in Tapovan, Chamoli, on Friday to rescue about 36 workers trapped inside. However, heavy boulders and muck are making their job difficult, said officials. The rescue workers have so far recovered 36 bodies, of whom 10 have been identified. They are yet to find 168 persons of the total 204 who went missing after Sunday’s disaster. State director general of police Ashok Kumar said, “The rescue workers are putting in all efforts to clear the muck from the tunnel but are unable to make any progress because there is heavy muck inside. We have cleared about 100m of the tunnel.” Also Read | Uttarakhand glacier burst: No headway in rescue work at Tapovan tunnel“The rescue workers on Thursday tried to get into the tunnel by drilling inside but to no avail,” said Kumar. On Thursday, the rescue operation had to be stopped for about half-an-hour after the water level in the Dhauliganga river rose by about one-and-a-half feet. It was, however, resumed after it receded. The officials said that the water level likely rose due to depositing of sediments upstream blocking the waterflow. “A team of rescue workers and experts went to check it on Thursday but couldn’t get a clear picture. They will go again on Friday for a recce to know what has happened,” said Kumar. Earlier on Thursday, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat approved the plan of rehabilitating about 50 families from villages around disaster-prone areas in four hill districts, including Tehri Garhwal, Chamoli, Uttarakashi and Bageshwar. He also sanctioned ₹15 lakh for the installation of earthquake detecting sensors for the operation of earthquake warning system with the help of IIT Roorkee. On Thursday, the governor of Uttarakhand Baby Rani Maurya visited the disaster-affected area in Tapovan to assess the ground situation and rescue work. Later on Thursday evening, the governor of Maharashtra Bhagat Koshiyari also flew down to Uttarakhand and met the chief minister and other officials to assess the current situation of rescue work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-glacier-burst-36-bodies-recovered-10-identified-168-still-missing-101613116166024.html
12-02-2021||Chandigarh||Seven-time Himachal Congress MLA Sujan Singh Pathania passes away||Sujan Singh Pathania, a former Congress minister and the sitting legislator from Fatehpur assembly constituency in Himachal Pradesh, passed away on Friday morning after a prolonged illness. He was 77. He is survived by his wife and a son. Family sources said that he was suffering from various age-related ailments. The cremation will take place on Saturday. Took the poll plunge on Janata Party ticket in 1977 The seven-time legislator was born on September 22, 1943, in Lahore. He graduated from Northern Forest Range College, Dehradun, and did two years training in forestry. Pathania served the Himachal Pradesh forest department before resigning and contesting the assembly elections in 1977. He was elected from Jawali assembly segment on the Janata Party ticket. He joined the Congress in 1980 and was re-elected to the assembly in 1990, 1993, 2003 besides the 2009 byelection from Jawali assembly constituency and in 2012 from Fatehpur assembly constituency. He served as the power and agriculture minister in the Virbhadra Singh government. He was the state transport minister from August 2007 to December 2007. He was re-elected to the 13th assembly in 2017 and was nominated as a member in the public accounts and human development committees. Big loss for state: Congress leaders Congress legislature party leader Mukesh Agnihotri and Kangra district Congress chief Ajay Mahajan expressed grief over Pathania’s death. “It is a big loss to the people of the state and the party,” Agnihotri said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/seventime-himachal-congress-mla-sujan-singh-pathania-passes-away-101613113165870.html
12-02-2021||Bhopal||24 persons including kids forced into bonded labour and tortured in MP, rescued||MP police arrested a muscleman on Thursday from Guna district, 214 km north of capital Bhopal, for allegedly keeping and assaulting several bonded labourers and torturing them by pouring hot oil on their hands, said police. Six kids were also among those rescued from his illegal confinement.The shocking incident came to light after 11 members of the Sehariya tribe escaped from the muscleman’s captivity in Raghogarh area of the district on Tuesday. Their complaint led to the rescue of 13 more people including six kids, who were kept in illegal confinement by the accused and his associates.The main accused Roman Kanjar, a resident of Raghogarh was arrested under Section 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) for pouring hot oil on the hands of labourers, said Madan Mohan Malviya, inspector Raghogarh police station.A separate FIR was registered against Roman Kanjar, Nathua Kanjar, Surendra Kanjar and Jitendra Kanjar under the relevant Sections of Bonded Labour System (Abolition) Act after 24 bonded labourers tilling the farm owned by the accused were rescued.Bonded Labour Liberation Front’s Guna district convener Narendra Bhadoriya said 11 men from the Sehariya tribe were kept as bonded labourers by the accused since their parents had borrowed sums between ₹20,000 to ₹50,000 from him several years ago.“In return, the accused kept them and their whole families as bonded labourers. The kids used to work as herders while the parents and young people used to work as farm labourers. They were not allowed to go anywhere without permission,” said Bhadoriya.“A few days ago, some of the people tried to flee but Roman Kanjar came to know about their plan and poured hot oil on their hands as a punishment. On Tuesday, they succeeded in fleeing from their confinement,” Bhadoriya added.Also Read: 23 cases filed under MP's new anti-conversion law in JanuaryGuna collector Kumar Purshottam on Thursday ordered an inquiry in the matter and also released certificates to the rescued labourers for their rehabilitation.“Now, we have sent all of them to their homes and also started their rehabilitation plan,” said the collector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/24-persons-including-kids-forced-into-bonded-labour-and-tortured-in-mp-rescued-101613112041469.html
12-02-2021||Delhi||Study says tap water access in Delhi linked to dengue infection risk||Tap water access in densely populated parts of Delhi is a strong predictor of the risk of contracting dengue, says a study that may lead to new strategies to control transmission of the deadly virus in urban areas.The dengue virus is among a growing number of mosquito-borne pathogens across the world that have adapted to spread in cities, the scientists, including Vikram Kumar from the National Institute of Malaria Research in Delhi, noted.They said close to 3.5 billion people across the world are at risk of dengue viral infection which is spreading increasingly with growing rates of urbanisation.In the current study, published in the journal PLOS Neglected Tropical Diseases, the scientists analysed social and environmental risk factors for contracting the virus in Delhi.They measured dengue antibodies in 2,107 individuals and mosquito larval prevalence in 18 areas within the city as well as socio-economic factors across neighbourhoods.Based on the analysis, the scientists said 7.6 per cent of the surveyed individuals were positive for dengue virus antibodies, indicating a recent or current infection.The study found that colonies with very poor access to tap water, with less than 61 per cent of houses having access, were associated with a higher risk of exposure to the virus.According to the research, these were the only type of areas to register dengue cases between epidemics.However, despite relatively low mosquito densities, they said wealthy colonies had a higher risk of recent infection than intermediary colonies.The scientists believe this may likely reflect the import of dengue virus by commuters coming into the high income areas during the day.Citing the limitations of the research, the scientists said the classifications in the study based on wealth indicators are subjective to an extent.However, they said these do offer at least some quantitative indication of socio-economic status.According to the scientists, the use of larval mosquito indices as a measure mosquito density was also a limitation since "they have been shown to have limited predictive value for dengue incidence."But the researchers said improved access to tap water could still lead to a reduction in dengue, not only for those directly affected but for the general population.They believe targeted intervention through mosquito control in winter in the socially disadvantaged areas could offer a rational strategy for optimising control efforts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/study-says-tap-water-access-in-delhi-linked-to-dengue-infection-risk-101613109515367.html
12-02-2021||Real||2 Ansal API projects in Sushant Golf City, Lucknow cancelled by UPRERA||The UP Real Estate Regulatory Authority (UPRERA) on Thursday de-registered two housing projects of Ansal API Ltd in Sushant Golf City, Lucknow and instructed the promoter to complete the remaining work of the third project. The RERA also imposed ₹1.61lakh fine-- 5% of the total cost of the third project—on the developer, as per the authority order.“De-registration order was served based upon information collected, site inspections made, complaints registered in UPRERA and non-compliance of the provision of RERA Act,” said Rajive Kumar, UPRERA chairman.The registrations for Ansal API Pocket-2, sector-P, Sushant Golf City and Ansal API, Pocket-2, Sector-J and Sushant Golf City projects were cancelled under Section 7 of the RERA Act.Action was taken based on site visits and a large number of complaints related to non-possession, non-refund, violation of terms and conditions of the sales contract/allotment letter by the builder were received by the regulatory authority“The regulatory authority had given them strict warnings and ample amount of time to respond after repeated notices were issued to them. This step should be seen as a warning to others,” said Kumar.Also Read: Ansal API diverted ₹600 crore of homebuyers’ money: UPRERAIn the third project -- Ansal API, pocket-3, Sector A, Sushant Golf City-- the promoter has been ordered to deposit a sum of ₹9.4 crore in a separate account, in respect to the funds received from the allottees within three months and complete the other projects registered with UPRERA.Earlier, an audit by forensic auditor M/s Currie & Brown had revealed breaches of RERA rules in accounts and audit leading to severe financial irregularities, diversion and siphoning of funds amounting to ₹606 crore by the builder, said the UPRERA chief.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/real-estate/2-ansal-api-projects-in-sushant-golf-city-lucknow-cancelled-by-uprera-101613107130725.html
12-02-2021||Jaipur||Earthquake of magnitude 4.3 hits Bikaner, tremors felt across Rajasthan||A 4.3 magnitude earthquake struck 420 km northwest of Bikaner, Rajasthan on Friday at 8:01 am on Friday, according to National Centre for Seismology.The earthquake was 290 kilometre deep. "Earthquake of Magnitude: 4.3, Occurred on 12-02-2021, 08:01:47 IST, Depth: 290 Km, Location: 420km NW of Bikaner, Rajasthan, India", the NCS tweeted.Earthquake of Magnitude:4.3, Occurred on 12-02-2021, 08:01:47 IST, Lat: 30.10 & Long: 69.70, Depth: 290 Km ,Location: 420km NW of Bikaner, Rajasthan, India for more information https://t.co/7tPeGAJcHa pic.twitter.com/WfSmiPxrVlOn Friday, minister of earth sciences Harsh Vardhan said there has been 965 earthquakes last year of magnitude 3 and above in NCR. In reply to a question in the Lok Sabha, Vardhan said "possibilities are being explored" to take up pilot study on earthquake early-warning system in collaboration with the United States Geological Survey.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/earthquake-of-magnitude-4-3-hits-bikaner-tremors-felt-across-rajasthan-101613100884011.html
12-02-2021||Mumbai||Nana Patole to take charge as Maharashtra Congress chief today||Newly appointed state Congress chief Nana Patole will take charge from his predecessor, state revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat, at historic August Kranti Maidan in South Mumbai on Friday. Before taking charge, Patole will pay his respects to Mahatma Gandhia and Lokmanya Tilak, and will travel in a bullock cart and tractor to protest against the fuel price hike and highlight farmers issues.Patole, who was appointed as the Maharashtra Congress head last week, had resigned from the post of Assembly speaker a day before his appointment. The party’s state in-charge HK Patil, other central observers and key state leaders are expected to attend the function at the August Kranti Maidan.Also Read | Maharashtra likely to get 3rd batch of Covid vaccine on MondayBefore taking charge, Patole will pay tribute to martyrs from unified Maharashtra movement at Hutatma Chowk, to Mahatma Gandhi at his statue near Mantralaya and travel to Girgaum Chowpatty on a tractor to highlight farmers’ issues. He will pay tribute to Lokmanya Tilak and Subhash Chandra Bose at their statues at Chowpatty. He will then head towards August Kranti Maidan in a bullock cart as notional protest against the fuel price hike.“It will be a grand procession to highlight the discontent among the general public and farmers against the Modi government,” said a Congress leader. “Congress party’s strength will be witnessed at the August Kranti Maidan on Friday,” Patole said on Thursday.Patole, on Thursday, visited religious places of different faiths, including Siddhivinayak Temple, Chaityabhoomi, and a church and mosque at Mahim.August Kranti Maidan has historic importance as Mahatma Gandhi gave the Quit India call in August 1942 from the ground which was then known as Gowalia Tank Maidan.Nana Patole, 56, a four-time legislator from Bhandara, is seen as an aggressive leader from the Vidarbha region, an erstwhile stronghold of the Congress where the party now faces strong competition from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Patole has influence in the peasant Kunbi community. In several parts of the region, the community supported Congress in the 2019 assembly elections. Patole began as a Congress leader and shifted to the BJP. He was elected as BJP MP in 2014 from the Bhandara-Gondia constituency but later in December 2017 quit the party by criticising Prime Minister Narendra Modi and returned to the Congress. He was elected to the state assembly in 2019 and was made Speaker when the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi, comprising Shiv Sena, Natioanlist Congress Party and Congress, formed the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-congress-new-chief-nana-patole-to-take-oath-today-101613105545343.html
12-02-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Woman booked for fraudulently obtaining husband’s bank statements||A Khar resident is facing arrest for allegedly conniving with a local police officer to illegally obtain the statement of her husband’s bank account, using a forged notice. The woman wanted to use the statement in her claim of maintenance from husband.The woman has been booked for cheating and forgery.The Mumbai sessions court, earlier this week, rejected her anticipatory bail application, observing that her custodial interrogation was required to reach to the root of the matter to know as to on whose instance forged documents were prepared.Also Read | Mumbai Police nab accused wanted in 2016 murder case from SuratThe Khar resident has been fighting a matrimonial case against her husband since 2012. The family court has allowed her plea for maintenance for their children but rejected the plea for herself. She has hence approached Bombay high court for maintenance.To substantiate her claim, the woman had attached statements of the bank accounts of her husband, his parents and their company, to show the husband’s income.The prosecution alleged that when the complainant, the husband, enquired as how she obtained the statement of bank accounts, he realised that it was obtained by a local police officer by issuing notice to the bank under Section 91 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. The section relates to issuance of summons to produce a document or other things for the purpose of police investigation.The complainant claimed that the cop issued a notice citing a case registered with Agripada police station for cheating against the husband. The husband sought all the relevant documents from the police station through Right to Information.He soon came to know that the notice was forged and fabricated and created just to obtain his account statements. The husband hence lodged a case of cheating and forgery against the woman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-woman-booked-for-fraudulently-obtaining-husband-s-bank-statements-101613103685799.html
12-02-2021||Patna||JD (U) likely to stake claim to Bihar Legislative Council’s chairman post||The Janata Dal United is likely to push for its candidate for the post of permanent chairman of Bihar Legislative Council during the upcoming budget session, citing its numerical strength in the Upper House, said a party leader aware of the developments.There are a few candidates in the reckoning for the top post with senior JD (U) MLC Ghulam Gaus being one of the front runners. JD (U) MLC Sanjeev Kumar Singh is another probable candidate for the post, said one NDA leader, who didn’t wish to be named.“The JD (U) could play the minority card for Gaus’ appointment as the chairman. He belongs to the Pasmanda (backward classes) community and has a long political experience. But the picture will only be clear during the upcoming budget session,” said a former MLC, pleading anonymity.While NDA partners have started discussion on the issue, the JD (U) is likely to stake claim for the post reasoning that the Assembly Speaker’s post went to the BJP, said the NDA leader quoted above.The Upper House currently has 59 members against the total strength of 75. The JD (U) has 23, the BJP 19 and the LJP, HAM(S), VIP have one member each. Among the Opposition, the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) has six members while the Communist Party of India (CPI) has 2 members. There are two independents members as well. As many as 12 MLC seats nominated by the governor are lying vacant apart from four seats that have fallen vacant recently.The Council is presently being run by acting chairman Awadesh Narayan Singh, who was appointed in June, 2020 post retirement of acting chairman Haroon Rashid.By precedence, the election to the post is always held when the House is in session.Meanwhile, Gaus, who was elected MLC in June from the Legislative Assembly quota, said he was not aware if his name was in the reckoning. “I have no idea about it,” he said. Gaus, a professor, has had a long political career, having served as MLC as well as the leader of the opposition in the Upper House as an RJD member before resigning from the party in 2014.Also Read: ‘A courtesy call’: Bihar CM Nitish Kumar on meeting with PM ModiMeanwhile, there is uncertainty whether the main Opposition party in the Council, RJD, will get the Leader of the Opposition status as the party is still short of two MLCs required to get the status as per norms.Former chief minister Rabri Devi, a sitting MLC, lost the status in June 2020 after five Grand Alliance MLCs switched to the JD (U).“The RJD does not have the prerequisite number for claiming the status of LoP. But, that should not be a reason to deny it the status of the main opposition party,” said Bhola Yadav, a senior RJD leader and former MLA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/jd-u-likely-to-stake-claim-to-bihar-legislative-council-s-chairman-post-101613102710039.html
12-02-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana home minister Anil Vij wants anti-conversion law implemented soon||Haryana home minister Anil Vij has directed officials to prepare a draft of the anti-conversion law so that it can be implemented as soon as possible.Presiding over a meeting of a committee set up to prepare the draft law on Thursday, Vij said that the enactment of this law will prevent any attempt to get religious conversion by force, inducement, bluff of marriage or by any other unethical methods.“Strict action will be taken against the culprits,” he said.Also read: 23 cases filed under MP’s new anti-conversion law in JanuaryThe minister said that laws made on this subject in other states were also being studied.Additional chief secretary, home, Rajeev Arora, secretary, home-1, TL Satyaprakash, director general of police Manoj Yadava, additional director general of police Navdeep Singh Virk and additional advocate general Deepak Manchanda were present at the meeting.Emergency police number 112 to be available across Haryana During the trial run of the Emergency Response and Support System Dial 112 which began in Panchkula and Gurugram on Thursday, Vij said 11,640 calls were received. This system will soon be started across Haryana and emergency police and other services will be available in any area of the state within 15 to 20 minutes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-home-minister-wants-anti-conversion-law-implemented-soon-101613103025137.html
12-02-2021||Kolkata||West Bengal: Left parties call for 12-hour statewide bandh today||The Left Front has called for a 12-hour statewide bandh on Friday after Left and Congress activists were allegedly beaten up by the police on Thursday. Following the announcement, the Mamata Banerjee administration cancelled all leaves and made attendance in government offices mandatory in a bid to foil the bandh. Dozens of Congress and Left activists were injured following a clash with the police in central Kolkata on Thursday. The activists were marching towards the state secretariat at Nabanna with a set of demands, including jobs. When police stopped them in central Kolkata, the activists tried to break the barricades and a clash followed. The police had to use water cannons, fire tear gas shells and resort to a lathi charge to disperse the activists. The activists attacked the police with stones and sticks. Also Read | Schools reopen in West Bengal today; classes 9-12 to resume“The way police unleashed atrocities on the participants in the march to Nabanna, it created a situation somewhat akin to the historic Jallianwala Bagh incident,” said a statement issued by Biman Bose, chairman of the Left Front. Condemning the attack on the agitators, Congress Rajya Sabha MP Pradip Bhattacharya said that the Trinamool Congress government has lost the people’s faith and violent suppression of protests is an indication of that. Left Front leaders said that the bandh was called after discussions with the Left Front constituents and the Congress party. “It has been directed that all state government offices will remain open on Friday. No leave would be granted to employees. If an employee takes leave it would be considered as ‘dies-non’ and no salary will be admissible for the day,” said a senior official of the state finance department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/west-bengal-left-parties-call-for-12-hour-statewide-bandh-today-101613102005422.html
12-02-2021||Delhi||Farmers’ protest: Traffic crawls as Delhi borders remain affected||Vehicular traffic continue to be disrupted and slow on roads connecting Uttar Pradesh’s Ghaziabad and some parts of Haryana with Delhi on Friday because of the closure of Ghazipur-Ghaziabad (UP Gate) and at least seven other borders because of the ongoing farmers’ agitation. Apart from the UP Gate border that is the main route for people travelling between Delhi and Uttar Pradesh’s Ghaziabad, Raj Nagar and Meerut, etc, Singhu, Tikri, Piau Maniyari, Harevli, Mungeshpur, Dhansa, and Jharoda --- all connecting Haryana with the national Capital -- are also closed, the Delhi Traffic Police’s updates on social media show.Since no traffic is being allowed on Delhi-Meerut expressway, NH-24 and NH-9 through the UP Gate border, the volume of traffic is high on the alternate border points adjacent to the closed border. Motorists travelling between Delhi and Ghaziabad are being diverted to EDM Mall Kaushambi, Anand Vihar, Kondli, Surya Nagar, Apsara, Bhopra and Loni borders. Catch LIVE Updates of farmers’ protest hereAccording to the Delhi Traffic Police, vehicles taking EDM Mall Kaushambi border for entering Delhi are diverted towards Ghazipur Mandi from where they can take a right turn and use the carriageways of the expressway, NH-24 and NH-9 to continue towards south and central Delhi. Some vehicles are also taking Road No-56 towards Ghazipur roundabout from EDM Mall border to further use NH-24 and NH-9 towards Delhi. The same Road No-56 is also being used by motorists entering Delhi from Anand Vihar and Surya Nagar borders. For those going to Ghaziabad from Delhi via Delhi-Meerut expressway, NH-24 and NH-9, the traffic police have made diversions near the Max-Hospital Patparganj road. Motorists are using NH-9 till Ghazipur flower market, where they are diverted onto the slip road of NH-24 for moving towards Ghaziabad. Similarly, vehicles are being diverted on the slip road of NH-24 from the Max Hospital road for taking a left turn towards Anand Vihar, Apsara, Surya Nagar, Bhopra and Loni borders to enter Ghaziabad.As the seven borders connecting Haryana have remained closed for nearly 80 days now, the traffic police have made diversions for vehicles moving between Delhi and Haryana. They also advise motorists to use alternate borders and seek updates from Delhi Traffic Police helplines 011-25844444 or 1095 about the closed borders and available routes. The available open borders between Delhi and Haryana are Auchandi, Saboli, Lampur, Safiabad, Singhu School and Pall toll tax. There has been no disturbance on the other borders such as those connecting Gurugram and Faridabad with Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/farmers-protest-traffic-crawls-as-delhi-borders-remain-affected-101613100745184.html
12-02-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s temp could cross 30°C, while air quality worsens this week: Experts||Delhi’s air quality remained in the “very poor” category on Friday morning. Data from Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7am stood at 330. On Thursday, the average 24-hour AQI had been 330.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe".Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar), forecast said the AQI is likely to marginally deteriorate again in the coming days.“Surface winds are low and winds are likely to marginally improve during day time. The ventilation is likely to stay in the same range. AQI is likely to stay in the Very Poor category for the next two days. Lower end of Very Poor to Poor category is forecasted for February 15,” Safar said on Thursday.Also Read | Will share details of protester"s death on R-Day with kin: PoliceMeanwhile, Delhi woke up to a foggy Friday morning as forecast by the India Meteorological Department. The minimum temperature is likely to be at 10 degrees Celsius while maximum temperature is predicted to be at 27 degrees Celsius -- a notch higher than Thursday.The minimum temperature on Thursday was 9.6 degrees Celsius which was a degree lower than normal and maximum temperature was three degrees above normal at 26.1 degrees Celsius.According to IMD data ,the maximum temperature recorded on Wednesday at the Safdarjung weather station, considered to be the official marker of the city, was 30.4 degrees Celsius, seven degrees above the season’s normal.IMD added that the maximum temperature is expected to cross the 30 degrees Celsius-mark again between February 13 and February 21.Data maintained by the weather department shows that the maximum temperature last crossed 30 degrees Celsius in the first half of February in 2006. However, it was not indicative of the month being the warmest in the last few years.“The exact picture of whether this could feature in the list of warmest February months will have to be seen once we take the MMTs (mean maximum/minimum temperatures) into account,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-temp-could-cross-30-c-while-air-quality-worsens-this-week-experts-101613098344918.html
12-02-2021||Delhi||Tribal fest in Delhi: Dances, crafts, a hit among visitors||From Kalbelia to Kachchhi Ghodi and Jhoomar to Bihu, a myriad dances from across the country are enthralling visitors amid a riot of colours at the ongoing Aadi Mahotsav. This annual tribal festival, organised by Tribal Cooperative Marketing Development Federation (TRIFED), Ministry of Tribal Affairs, is showcasing the rich culture of various tribes of India. In one corner of the expansive Dilli Haat — the venue of the event — Banwari Lal, a performer, enthrals spectators by holding a dummy horse that is draped around his waist. His prop is embellished with mirror work, and he himself is adorned with a beautiful traditional costume. “We are from Rajasthan, and this get up is for our traditional folk dance called Kachchhi Ghodi, which is often performed at any happy occasion,” says Lal, adding, “For months we were at home, without any opportunity to perform, and therefore had to see very difficult time in absence of a livelihood. Coronavirus had stopped or postponed all weddings and other celebrations. But, thankfully, now we’ll get work. Coming to events like these has made us hopeful that there’s a better tomorrow!”Kailash, a performer from the Bhil tribe of Jhabua, is another artiste whose joy knows no bounds when he sees visitors shaking a leg with his troupe. He says, “Hum dus log Madhya Pradesh se aaye hain yahan Bhagoriya dance karne. It’s a dance where both girls and boys perform, and it’s this tradition that establishes links to find prospective partners for life. The dance involves heavy footwork, and we are happy that we can showcase our culture and traditions to the people of Delhi.” A look beyond these dancers, and the place gives a panoramic view of the numerous tribal artefacts and cuisines narrating tales from different tribal traditions. The festival is effort to ensure inclusivity of tribal communities into the mainstream and is providing them access to wider markets and bigger opportunities. Organisers inform that this fest is the first big event for many tribal artisans. “These tribals had been waiting for almost a year for such an opportunity, and Delhi has responded with immense gusto,” says Pravir Krishna, managing director, TRIFED, adding, “The event has had more than three lakh visitors so far, which is a stupendous response! Every stall put up by artisans is doing really well; each artisan here has made a sale of ₹5- ₹10 lakhs, which has made up for their losses and also placed them comfortably for the near future. And we are happy that we are out of the Covid phobia since it’s been proved that such events can be organised keeping in mind all safety concerns. Now we are feeling enthusiastic about organising more such festivals for the tribal communities in other states, in the coming months.”Catch It LiveWhat: Aadi MahotsavWhere: Dilli Haat, INAOn till: February 15 Timing: 11am to 9pmNearest Metro Station: INA on Yellow and Pink Lines Author tweets @bhagat_mallikaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/tribal-fest-in-delhi-dances-crafts-a-hit-among-visitors-101613075084581.html
12-02-2021||Other||Jagraon residents want representatives to find solutions to civic issues in town||As politicians make a beeline for Jagraon ahead of the municipal council elections on February 14, residents are slamming the leaders for their apathy towards the problems of the town. Among the many civic issues facing Jagraon, which has 23 wards and an annual budget allocation of ₹16 crore, residents say the most pressing issues are that of water accumulation, bad roads and open garbage dumps. Surinder Singh, a shopkeeper in Kamal Chowk area, said, “Just an hour of rain is enough to get the entire town inundated. During such days, shopkeepers are forced to shut their shops as no customer is able to reach the market due to waterlogging.”Sandeep, the owner of Malhotra telecom on Jagraon-Raikot road, raised the issue of poor quality of road construction. He said the construction of the main road leading to Raikot, has been lying incomplete for the past several years and furthermore, the potholes on the route often lead to accidents. In Rani Jhansi Chowk area, the residents, especially shopkeepers, were irked by an open garbage dump. They say that besides being unhygienic, the dump attracts a lot of stray animals to area, adding to their woes. Shopkeepers of the area, Pankaj Sharma, Sunil Kumar and Raj Verma said that they, along with others, have been raising the issue for the last one year, but their complaints have fallen on deaf ears.“The garbage is lifted in the afternoon and during that time, the foul smell spreads throughout the area. Movement of traffic is also disrupted when garbage is lifted. It also draws a lot of stray cattle to the area. We had also moved court on the issue and the court had ordered a stay in the matter, but the garbage dump has still not been removed,” said Sunil Kumar. Despite several attempts to reach him, the municipal council’s executive officer Sanjay Bansal was not available.Former council president (previous tenure) Charanjit Kaur (Congress) said she had taken several steps to improve the road infrastructure and drainage system in the town. “During my tenure as president, for around two years and three months, I had taken up projects worth crores for improving the road infrastructure and drainage system. Steps were also taken to improve solid waste management.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jagraon-residents-want-representatives-to-find-solutions-to-civic-issues-in-town-101613073501724.html
12-02-2021||Other||Ludhiana: Day after sexual assault on girl with Down’s Syndrome, police arrest her teen brother||A day after a seven-year-old girl, suffering from Down’s Syndrome, was sexually assaulted, police arrested her 13-year-old brother for the crime. Police said the victim’s mother was aware that her son was behind the assault but had lied that the assault took place during school hours to protect her son. She knew that the matter would reach the police once she took her daughter to the hospital for treatment, so she herself filed a complaint with the police. On Thursday, when the police were investigating the involvement of the 13-year-old in the crime, residents, of the area where the family lives, blocked the road adjoining National Highway-44 for more than three hours. The protesters alleged that the police were trying to implicate the teenager to shield the school. Police, however, managed to pacify them and convinced them to lift the blockade. Mother had left the kids in the room to do homeworkAssistant commissioner of police (ACP, North) Gurbinder Singh said that on Wednesday, the boy, who is a Class-8 student in the same school, had returned home on his own while the girl, who studies in LKG, was picked up by the mother. After bringing her home, the girl’s mother changed her clothes and asked her brother to help the seven-year-old with her homework. Leaving the kids to study, the mother had left the room to finish some household chores. It was then that the boy is said to have sexually assaulted the seven-year-old. In pain, the girl asked her mother to take her to the toilet. It was there that the mother found blood oozing out of the girl’s private parts and came to know about the assault. Police said the woman had reportedly slapped the boy on finding out what he had done but later concocted a lie to save the son.The crime was reported around 4pm, almost two hours after the woman had picked her daughter up from the school. The ACP said that soon after receiving the complaint, police questioned the school principal and teachers. The police even scanned the footage of closed-circuit television cameras in the school but found nothing. Furthermore, the school had no male teachers or other staff members.How police found out about boy’s involvementThe ACP revealed that during treatment, the girl had said “Bhai maara” (brother hit me) following which, police started questioning the 13-year-old boy and his mother. Police said the boy then confessed that he had assaulted his sister after viewing some pornographic content. The case against the teenager has been registered under Section 376 (rape) of the Indian Penal Code, Section 4 and 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act at the Salem Tabri police station.Road blocked for three hoursMeanwhile commuters had a tough time as area residents laid siege to the road adjoining National Highway-44 from 9am to 12pm on Thursday. Refusing to believe the police version of events, the protesters said that the cops had forced the teenager to confess after threatening him. They accused the victim’s school authorities of sheltering the “real culprits”. Parminder Singh, a resident of the area, said, “We want justice for the LKG student and the release of her brother. The police must investigate the matter thoroughly so that the real culprit can be punished.” Lok Insaaf Party leader Randhir Singh Sibia, who turned up at the spot, said, “I have met the parents and the police have been requested to investigate the matter thoroughly.”Meanwhile, as the protesters refused to lift the blockade for at least three hours, police was forced to divert the traffic. Sunil, a commuter on the route, said, “I was stuck in the traffic jam for over an hour. I had to navigate through some internal roads to reach my destination.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-day-after-sexual-assault-on-girl-with-down-s-syndrome-police-arrest-her-teen-brother-101613073500542.html
12-02-2021||Delhi||15k+ get Covid-19 vaccine jabs in Delhi on Thursday||Over 15,000 health care and frontline workers in the city received their first dose of the coronavirus vaccine on Thursday, the most inoculations in Delhi so far, as turnouts for the jabs continued to inch up, with the government opening up the programme for more beneficiaries and adding more centres.The Delhi government increased the number of vaccination sites from 183 to 265 Thursday onwards, with 253 opening on the day, and 15,803 getting inoculated. With the increase in centres, however, and a subsequent increase in number of targeted beneficiaries, the vaccine coverage dropped to 62.4%, from 80.6% on Wednesday.District administrations are now focussing on vaccinating as many health care workers as possible before the February 20 deadline, when the data for the first category of the beneficiaries will be frozen.“We are urging people to get the shots as soon as possible to avoid missing out on vaccination. Now, there are so many people who are coming to us requesting that their names be added to the CoWIN portal but the list was frozen a couple of weeks back and we cannot do anything,” said a senior official from the South district, which saw the most people (1,810) getting the vaccine on Thursday.So far, Delhi has vaccinated 162,575 health care and front line workers since the programme began on January 16.The healthcare workers who were the first to receive the vaccine will start getting their second vaccine shot Saturday onwards, according to senior officials from Delhi’s health department. Both the vaccines – Covishield and Covaxin – need two doses around 28 days apart to be effective in preventing the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/15k-get-covid-19-vaccine-jabs-in-delhi-on-thursday-101613072815952.html
12-02-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Discover the beauty in silence||The temple is immersed in utmost quietude, so much so that you feel that if you concentrate enough, you might hear Devi Durga breathe. Attired in an orange fabric, her idol faces the door.Hidden in a narrow alley of Old Delhi’s Galli Choori Wallan, Hara Mandir has the hushed remoteness of rarely frequented pilgrimage sites, like those found in the snowy reaches of the Himalayas. You rarely see visitors here. Its exquisite beauty remains largely untouched. Its name derives from the wall outside, painted green, or hara. Inside, the most striking feature is of the chessboard floor. The walls are sculpted at various places with taaks, or arched niches, a disappearing element of architecture. Hefty brass bells hang from the roof.The temple is very small, and yet extensive—like a piece of paper folded many times, each fold consisting of a self-contained world. The main shrine, devoted to Gauri Shankar, is atop a platform. A corridor runs around it for parikrama, or circumambulation. A taak in the corridor has been turned into a tiny shrine with a statue of Shirdi’s Sai Baba, decorated with marigolds. A 2018 wall calendar printed by Ashish Radio (“deals in speaker parts, mega phones, dj professional equipments”) shows Lord Ram with consort Sita. The corridor’s door consists of painted panes arranged in a tilted row. One of the panes is missing, like a leaf fallen from a tree branch.The alcove on the other side of the temple is devoted to Lord Shiva.And now a young CA student appears. Abhishek lives on the temple’s first floor — “which is our home.” He is the son of the shrine’s priest, Pandit Dev Kumar Dixit Chitrakootwale. “Pitaji has gone to Karol Bagh to preside over a prayer ceremony.” He shows a foundation stone on the wall detailing the origins of the temple—it was built in the 19th century by Lala Bhagwan Das and his son Parneshwarji Das. A part of the adjacent wall is lined with the portraits of a series of turbaned men descending from the temple’s founders.The accountancy student tiptoes into a small chamber to show a hidden kuan (well), which lies unused, under a lid, the access to it blocked. Returning to the chessboard floor, he stands by the temple’s main door, confirming that it is also the way to the family home upstairs. “The mandir is for the public, though very few people come.”The temple opens daily at 7 am with the morning arti, and closes at 8.30 pm. If the grill is locked, just give a shout and somebody will come down to open.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-discover-the-beauty-in-silence-101613072498283.html
12-02-2021||Chandigarh||Annual convocation: PEC to conduct another survey of graduating students||Punjab Engineering College (PEC) has decided to conduct a survey of graduating students to assess if they are willing to have their convocation ceremony in March without their parents in attendance. They will also be given the option to attend the ceremony with their parents when the Covid situation improves. The decision was taken during PEC’s senate meeting on Wednesday.PEC had conducted a survey of graduating students last year to find out if they wanted to have the ceremony physically or virtually. Most students had opted for a physical convocation.Discussion on UG curriculumThe senate members also held a discussion on the flexibility of the curriculum for second, third and fourth year students of undergraduate courses. PEC director Dheeraj Sanghi, said, “Course distribution was done during the meeting. However, courses will be specified during the next senate meeting.”The PEC senate in its meeting in December has already approved a revised structure and syllabi for first-year UG students from the 2020-21 academic session. MTech programme with specialisation in data science proposedThe proposal to start a master’s programme with specialisation in data science was also tabled. However, it has not been approved yet.According to the proposal, the programme may have multiple entry and exit options, in adherence to the National Education Policy (NEP-2020). The institute is also planning to have a centre for data science. “We have suggested that a plan regarding the course is formulated,” Sanghi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/annual-convocation-pec-to-conduct-another-survey-of-graduating-students-101613071579593.html
12-02-2021||Other||Mohali MC polls: Azad group promises flyovers on Airport Road to ease traffic woes||Members of the Azad group, led by former mayor Kulwant Singh, on Thursday released their 31-point manifesto for the municipal corporation elections scheduled on February 14. The Azad group is contesting the elections in alliance with the Aam Aadmi Party, but all candidates will fight under the group’s banner.While releasing the manifesto at his election office in Sector 79, Kulwant said all promises made before the last MC elections had been fulfilled. “In future, we will be constructing flyovers for smooth transit between Kharar and Airport Chowk. Besides, we will upgrade local dispensaries, improve parking lots in commercial areas and modernise the community centres for optimum utilisation,” he said. For a green and clean Mohali, the former mayor said, they will plant fruit-bearing, herbal and aromatic plants across the city, and beautify green spaces through landscaping. Besides, an advisory taskforce will be implemented for efficient cleanliness drives across the city“Also, dangerous trees will be pruned, and dead, dry and foul-smelling trees will be removed if we are voted to power,” he said. Kulwant said the people of Mohali city were intelligent and will not fall into the trap of lies of Akalis and Congress. “This time, residents will rise above partisanship and vote for the Azad group, making them win by huge margins to create a new history.”Key promises Flyovers over traffic lights on Airport RoadLocal bus service Cycling tracks across the city Effective solid waste management projectFee-waiver for building plans for villages within MC areaWard/phase/sector-wise playgrounds More CCTV cameras at all important pointsReflector stickers and signboards on internal streets and roadsEffective dogs and stray animals control and management Groundwater-saving campaign||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mohali-mc-polls-azad-group-promises-flyovers-on-airport-road-to-ease-traffic-woes-101613071345207.html
12-02-2021||Delhi||Covid tales: Finding, sustaining house help is dream come true!||‘How many members?’, ‘How many rooms?’, ‘How much rest time she’ll get’, ‘Can we get a corona test done?’ are some of the questions one encounters when hiring a full time house help these days. In Covid-19 times, the challenge is not limited to finding a trained house help, but to sustain one and alongside afford the surged commissions of agencies or individuals who help procure house helps. Here’s what some denizens and agency owners have to say.‘Most maids are in their home town’Praveen, who runs a maid agency in Delhi, says, “Kaafi problems hain abhi kyunki most maids are in their hometowns. So, there’s a scarcity of maids. We’re taking a commission of ₹40,000 per year, and have to pay the on-ground agents too. Salary bar hain maids ke, ₹10,000 to ₹12,000. Khaana add karke 15,000 tak chala jaata hai per month ka. Woh pehle paise gaon mein dete hai. Unko leke aane ka kharcha nikalna, woh bhi mehenga pad jaata hai. Ek do maid ka covid test bhi karwake diye.” ₹25k commission is normalShyam, from a Delhi-based agency that provides maids, says: “There are different rates for dusting, cleaning and cooking. For a four-bedroom house, the salary of a house help is ₹15,000. For such deals, the commission we take is about ₹25,000. Yeh toh normal rate hai aur itna hi chal raha hai. It all depends on the maid. If she agrees to work in ₹12,000 or ₹14,000, then only we send her. Unko bhi aise ghar jaana hai jahan hygiene accha ho.” Another service provider, citing anonymity, says, “We provide semi-trained maids for ₹10,000, fully-trained for ₹14,000-15,000, and commission ₹25,000 for 11 months. Hum toh corona test bhi karwa ke dete hai.” ‘Our full-time help just disappeared’Suman Mehta, a Gurugrammer, whose full-time house help went absconding recently, says, it’s difficult to sustain one these days, and that you have to be “lucky” to get a good one. “We had a bad experience with a full-time help. She was a first-timer who didn’t want to work hard. Halaki humne clear kiya tha kya-kya kaam hai. Kisi ne usko behka diya. She just disappeared and didn’t tell anyone, not even her father. We were quite in shock. We pampered her so much, ordered clothes for her, too. Jo agents ya middlemen hote hain woh dono ko kharab karte hai. You do get help easily, be it a cook or one for laundry, but you have to be lucky to get a good one,” she adds.TV and rest break are pre-decidedA Delhi-based homemaker, on the condition of anonymity, says: “Our maid used to dictate ki TV dekhne ka time bhi achhe se chahiye, din mein rest ke liye minimum two hours chahiye. Kaam bhi yeh dekh ke lete hain according to members. We didn’t have a house help for two weeks as our old help decided to go to her village out of the blue. And every agent we called, was asking us exorbitant prices as his commission in lieu of arranging a house help, ranging from ₹30,000 to ₹40,000.”‘Zamana bada kharab hai’Delhi-based homemaker Himani Dhingra, says, “We have a joint family living in a duplex house. Do din us maid ne bahut acha kaam kiya. But then she stole our dresses, clothes of our kids, sandals. We still don’t know what all is missing from the house. Only jewellery and cash was left. Zamana bada kharab hai. After seeing the CCTV recording, we saw that she accumulated all the stuff in a men’s coat cover. Usko tokri ki tarah sar pe le gayi. We’re just thankful that hamare bacho ko nahin leke gayi. She stole other maid’s mobile and clothes also.”Author tweets @Nainaarora8Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid-tales-finding-sustaining-house-help-is-dream-come-true-101613071343554.html
12-02-2021||Chandigarh||Kin allege negligence in man’s death at Chandigarh’s GMSH-16, inquiry marked||The UT health department on Thursday marked an inquiry after a 20-year-old man died due to alleged medical negligence at the emergency wing of Government Multi-Specialty Hospital, Sector 16.The action came after the patient’s family members staged a protest on the hospital premises, demanding action against the doctors. The hospital has been directed to form a panel of three senior doctors to look into the allegations. CCTV footage of the emergency ward has been secured for scrutiny to find any lapse. “The preliminary inquiry rules out any negligence on the part of the doctors. The patient was being attended to, as required. However, an inquiry has been marked by the director of health services and I will form a three-member panel for it,” said Dr VK Nagpal, medical superintendent, GMSH-16. A science student from Sector 56, the patient was undergoing treatment for tuberculoma. He was admitted at the hospital after he developed a rash due to anti-tuberculosis drugs. On Thursday morning, he suffered a seizure, which was treated as per protocol at 11.30am. However, the patient became unresponsive after some time. CPR was carried out as per guidelines, but the patient couldn’t be revived and was declared dead, a health official said.The patient’s family complained that despite several pleas to the senior doctors to attend to him, as he was in severe pain, he was being looked after by only junior doctors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kin-allege-negligence-in-man-s-death-at-chandigarh-s-gmsh-16-inquiry-marked-101613070979393.html
12-02-2021||Chandigarh||SC stays gangster Lawrence Bishnoi’s transit from Rajasthan to Chandigarh||The UT Police will not be able to bring gangster Lawrence Bishnoi to Chandigarh for questioning with regards to the four cases pending against him, as the Supreme Court has stayed the execution of the production warrants till March 22. Bishnoi, lodged in a Rajasthan jail, had moved the Punjab and Haryana high court citing apprehensions over being killed in a fake encounter during transit to Chandigarh and Haryana for interrogation in various criminal cases, most of them involving use of arms. He had pleaded that he be allowed to appear in court through videoconferencing or be handcuffed during transit. On this, the high court in December last year had issued directions to the Chandigarh Police to bring him to the city “in handcuffs and under the watch of 20 policemen”, with videography of the entire transit. The court had also directed that the transit be supervised by UT deputy inspector general (DIG) Omvir Singh Bishnoi, and the escorting team be led by a deputy superintendent of police with two inspectors and 17 policemen. While denying Bishnoi’s videoconferencing plea, the court had observed that the police could not be deprived of their right to interrogate an accused and that physical interrogation was necessary in cases where he had played a background role. However, not wishing to travel out of Rajasthan, Bishnoi moved the apex court against the HC order. SC has now issued a notice to the UT Police for March 22, while staying “operation and implementation” of the HC order till then. “Bishnoi is wanted in a number of cases in Chandigarh and has to be brought to the city for interrogation. The legal team will be filing a reply to the SC notice,” said senior superintendent of police Kuldeep Singh Chahal. Elaborate security arrangements Giving precise movement instructions, high court had said the convoy will have a pilot vehicle ahead of the prison van ferrying Bishnoi and the escort vehicle. The DSP travelling in the last vehicle will be in-charge of the transit. Bishnoi will travel in a bulletproof or armoured vehicle, duly escorted by trained commandos, armed with sophisticated arms and ammunition, the court had directed. In case of default, officials concerned will be held personally liable and responsible, it had warned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sc-stays-gangster-lawrence-bishnoi-s-transit-from-rajasthan-to-chandigarh-101613070859474.html
12-02-2021||Chandigarh||Pharma grad who lost job during lockdown robbed Chandigarh bank||Staring at financial crisis after losing his job during the Covid-19 lockdown, a Mohali man robbed ₹8.65 lakh at gunpoint from an unguarded cooperative bank in Sector 61 on Monday, police said on Thursday. The accused, Harjot Singh, 34, a resident of Phase-3A, Mohali, has been arrested and ₹8.48 lakh, part of the booty, have been recovered from him.A B-Pharmacy graduate, Harjot used an air pistol – a toy gun used to practice marksmanship with metal pellets – to execute the robbery after taking cues from movies, said Kuldeep Singh Chahal, senior superintendent of police (SSP), Chandigarh.“He had a marketing job. But, lost it during the lockdown, making survival difficult for his family of four, comprising his wife and two children,” he added. As he is addicted to cough syrup, he singlehandedly planned and executed the robbery to fund his addiction and fulfil his desires, the police official said.Gone in two minutes Covering his face with a handkerchief, Harjot entered the branch around noon on February 8, pretending to be a customer seeking information about his bank account. He shoved the four employees present on the premises and then pulled out his air pistol, pointing it at peon Amarjit Singh, who was sitting at the cash counter. He told him to hand over the cash bag, while threatening to shoot all of them and walked out with ₹8.65 lakh within two minutes. Human intelligence helped crack caseIn the wake of non-functional CCTV cameras at the bank, police were initially left at a loss. “But, human intelligence network helped us nab the accused,” said Shruti Arora, assistant superintendent of police (ASP, South). The bank’s CCTV cameras were not operational since February 4. Questioning the bank employees helped the police gauge that the robber was familiar with the area. Relying on human intelligence by means of interpersonal contact with sources, police zeroed in on Harjot, who was a regular visitor to the Sector-61 market and well-aware of the area. Thereon, police scanned CCTV footage from cameras installed at various crossroads near the market and spotted Harjot parking his car at a distance and walking to the bank at the same time when the robbery was executed. With his arrest, police also seized the air pistol and his white Maruti Suzuki Swift, bearing a Mohali registration number.Knew about bank’s poor securityHarjot was produced before a court on Thursday and remanded to two-day police custody. During his interrogation, he revealed that he targeted the bank as he was aware that it did not have a security guard.He had so far spent ₹17,000 of the booty on drugs as well as partying with friends.The father of two is facing a case under Section 392 (robbery) of the Indian Penal Code and the Arms Act, registered on the complaint of branch manager Anuradha Awasty. If proven, the charge entails rigorous imprisonment for up to 10 years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pharma-grad-who-lost-job-during-lockdown-robbed-chandigarh-bank-101613070741587.html
12-02-2021||Delhi||Class 9 and 11 examinations will be conducted in offline mode in CBSE schools||All schools affiliated to the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) will conduct in-person annual examinations for classes 9 and 11, as per a direction issued by the board on Thursday, as schools across the country begin to reopen in phases, after months shut due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The board has also advised schools to start the next academic session by April 1 this year.“For classes 9 and 11, schools should take steps to identify and remedy learning gaps and thereafter conduct examinations by strictly following Covid-19 protocols as per examination by-laws,” read the notification issued by CBSE controller of examinations Sanyam Bhardwaj.To be sure, the board has not specified if the new academic session will be held in person, or remotely, and said schools can start the session following Covid-19 protocols in place in the respective states and Union territories.Schools across the country were closed for several months since March last year as part of restrictions put in place to curb the coronavirus disease crisis. Several states started reopening schools in a phases from November 2020, while Delhi allowed schools to call back students of classes 10 and 12 from January 18, and those in classes 9 and 11 from February 5 for practicals and remedial classes.“We request parents to understand that only offline examinations in classes 9 and 11 will prepare students for the board classes next year and for competitive exams,” the notification added.The CBSE has directed all its affiliated schools to gear up to welcome students for face-to-face classes. “Schools have (re)opened in a majority of the states and with the improvement of the Covid-19 situation, it is expected that schools will (re) open in other states/UTs as well. This will help students to attend schools to complete their practicals to prepare for the final exams... Teachers should focus on each student and access the learning gap,” the CBSE notification read.The board has also asked the schools to attempt to begin the 2021-2022 academic session from April 1, as is the norm.A senior official in the Delhi government education department said the Directorate of Education (DoE) has already issued a date sheet for mid-term exams for classes 9 and 11 that will be conducted between March 20 and April 15 in offline mode. However, the official warned that it may be unfeasible to begin the next session from April 1.“Our mid-term exams themselves will continue till mid-April and then we will have to conduct final exams. How is it possible to start the new session by April 1?” the official said.The CBSE’s directive was received well by several principals.Meenakshi Khushwaha, principal of Birla Vidya Niketan, said, “In Class 11, we have 272 students, and parents of over 250 students have already consented to send their children to school for in-person exams. Similarly, most parents of students in Class 9 are ready to send their wards for the exam. We are taking all precautions. We will keep staggered timing for entry and exit of students. There will be a limited number of students in each room and the campus will be sanitized properly before and after exams. We are also ready to provide a separate room to students for taking exams in case their parents are really scared about their safety.” The school will conduct the annual examination in March.RP Singh, principal of Rajkiya Pratibha Vikas Vidyalaya (RPVV) in Surajmal Vihar, said, “The offline examination will build confidence among students and prepare them for board classes. The schools are already taking all Covid-19 related precautions, and students of classes 9 and 11 have also started coming to schools now. Conducting in-person exams for these students will not be a problem.”Family members of some students, however, said they were concerned about the CBSE’s direction. The sister of a class 11 student at a private school in south Delhi said, “There is still a lot of apprehension among parents about the safety of their children and the family members. We live with grandparents, both aged above 90, and really concerned about their safety. Why can’t schools conduct exams online like they did last year?”Jyoti Arora, principal of Mount Abu Public School, said that in March last year, only a few exams were pending when the lockdown was announced to contain the Covid-19 infection. The situation was very different at that time. It is far better now, and we are moving towards normalcy.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/class-9-and-11-examinations-will-be-conducted-in-offline-mode-in-cbse-schools-101613069975902.html
12-02-2021||Mumbai||BMC as single planning body: Why multiple agencies don’t work in Mumbai||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) request to the state to make it the single planning authority for the city, although looked at as a political plan of the Uddhav Thackeray-led state government, is more of an administrative requirement, amid Mumbai’s worsening urban gridlock, when more than six planning agencies are handling different patches, with no co-ordination, say experts. The confusion The city’s past is replete with many examples of change in authorities handling land use, causing not only delays and confusion in planning and execution of infrastructure projects, but also inconvenience to citizens, who are forced to first identify the right authority for their issues, which may range from drainage problems to building permissions. A few examples: In 2017, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) prepared a separate development plan (DP) for three land parcels measuring 114 hectares. These included land parcels in Oshiwara District Centre, A block in Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC), and Kurla. The land parcels were handed over to the BMC from the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) late in 2016, after the corporation repeated the exercise of looking at the existing land-use and released the DP 2034. In 2018, the state carved out 966 hectares in south Mumbai, stretching from Colaba to Wadala. The Mumbai Port Trust (MbPT) was made the special planning authority (SPA) and the BMC’s role was minimised in these areas. The MbPT released a blueprint for these 966 hectares with no mention of the DP. The same year, the Devendra Fadnavis-led Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government granted the status of a planning authority to the state-run Maharashtra Housing Development Authority (Mhada) for 14,904 cessed properties, despite the BMC’s objections. Before MbPT and Mhada were granted the status of planning authorities, the BMC had already stated that 9% of the city’s 476 sqkm area is now under SPAs. Mahesh Vijapurkar, a journalist, said, “No other Indian city has so many state-run agencies, except Delhi, which has multiple municipalities. Planning in urban cities is not just about providing facilities, it is about land-use and equitable benefits to citizens. A city’s municipality has the best understanding of its footprint. But to be the lone planner, it has to learn to be an efficient executor of plans.” Political game The issue of multiple agencies is related to the city’s status as India’s commercial capital. As the city grew, both state and Centre felt the need to govern it better and plan its development. During the late Rajiv Gandhi’s tenure as the prime minister, there was a proposal to create a separate department for Mumbai in the state government, be led by a minister. However, state Congress leaders were not keen. Several industry leaders were also of the opinion that Mumbai should be made a union territory. However, it was strongly countered by the Shiv Sena. The Samyukta Maharashtra movement had forced the Centre to change its plan to include Mumbai in Gujarat or keep it as a union territory. In 1975, the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) was formed to expand Mumbai in the adjoining areas and develop the Mumbai Metropolitan Region. The MMRDA gained prominence after 1999 as the Congress-NCP government started assigning key infrastructure projects. With the Shiv Sena ruling the BMC and Congress-NCP the state, the local government did not want any interference. The MMRDA Act, therefore, allowed the state to control projects outside the BMC’s jurisdiction, much to the annoyance of the Sena. “The Sena was averse to projects being transferred to other agencies. When Manohar Joshi was the chief minister, Sena also tried to increase the mayor’s powers, but the mayor till date remains a ceremonial post,” said Hemant Desai, a political observer. Today, the MMRDA is executing most premium projects. Besides a 337-km Metro network in and around Mumbai, it is also building the Mumbai Trans Harbour Link (MTHL) connecting Sewri and Nhava Sheva. The agency is also looked at as the go-to agency for new mobility and urban planning initiatives. Besides, the MMRDA is also an SPA for BKC, Wadala, Oshiwara, and Backbay reclamation. MMRDA, in its presentation to Thackeray in 2019, had estimated the development potential of BKC alone at ₹580 billion. Another agency that has risen to prominence is the Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC). Formed in 1996, the agency started with a bang under then public works department minister Nitin Gadkari. Its projects included the Mumbai-Pune Expressway, much-touted 50 flyovers in Mumbai and the Worli-Bandra sea link. Through the years, MSRDC has remained with the Sena, even when it was an ally with the BJP in the state. The agency, which is now constructing the most ambitious Mumbai-Nagpur Samruddhi corridor, is executing works worth ₹1,,860 billion. The state also formed the Slum Rehabilitation Authority (SRA) and Mhada to improve housing infrastructure. However, the agencies failed to live up to the expectations. Dr Sanhita Joshi, assistant professor, department of civics and politics, University of Mumbai, said, “These agencies [MMRDA and MSRDC] were probably created to secure more political control over governance. They stand in the way of decentralisation of powers, functions, and functionaries to the local self-governing bodies as per the 74th constitutional amendment act of 1991.” Why a single agency? The Sena has been ruling the BMC for more than 25 years. The rise of other agencies over the years has resulted in downsizing the BMC and reducing the Sena’s clout. If the BMC is now made a single planning authority, it can take control of all development activities just ahead of the 2022 elections. “The Sena knows the BMC will remain its power centre, but it may or may not return to power in the state after five years. So, it is strengthening the BMC while it has the power,” Desai said. Political observer Surendra Jondhale said, “Apart from administrative control, if all development activities come under one authority, it means more funds, which is definitely an advantage for the ruling party.” Administratively, urban experts are also keen on Mumbai being handled by a single authority. Milind Mhaske, project co-ordinator at Praja, which works with city corporators to enhance governance, said, “When there are multiple heads involved and when the work is not done, the agencies start the blame-game.” However, there are also doubts on the BMC’s potential. A former municipal commissioner said, “It is theoretically right. But the BMC has not displayed the capacity or potential over the years, particularly during the monsoon. If urban local bodies like the BMC have to become more powerful, effective, and efficient, all external control must go. A single planning authority will be one more step closer in the direction to realise a constitutional dream.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-as-single-planning-body-why-multiple-agencies-don-t-work-in-mumbai-101613068820915.html
12-02-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra government doesn’t allow governor Koshyari to use state plane||The unease between Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari and the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government deepened with the ruling Shiv Sena-Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) –Congress coalition denying permission to Koshyari to use the state’s airplane to travel to Dehradun on Thursday. The Raj Bhavan secretariat and the state government sought to blame each other for the incident. Following the controversy, opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) slammed the Uddhav Thackeray-led government, saying the incident has maligned Maharashtra’s image, while Sena said the state was merely following rules laid down by the home ministry.According to Raj Bhavan, Koshyari had reached the international airport and even boarded the state’s airplane, but he was told the aircraft would not take off as the chief minister’s office (CMO) had not approved the travel, so consequently, permission for flying was not sought from the flying authority. The governor then took a commercial flight to Dehradun in Uttarakhand.Also Read | SC stays contempt proceedings against Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh KoshyariAccording to Raj Bhavan, Koshyari was expected to attend 122th IAS induction program at the Lal Shastri National Academy of Administration, Mussoorie, on Friday and he was supposed to fly in a government aircraft on Thursday morning to Dehradun and had planned to reach Mussoorie by road“The Governor reached the CSIM Airport at 1000 hrs and boarded the government plane. However the Hon’ble Governor was informed that the permission for the use of government aircraft had not been received. As directed by the Hon’ble Governor, tickets for Dehradun were booked on a commercial aircraft leaving Mumbai at 1215 hrs immediately and accordingly, he left for Dehradun,” said the governor’s secretariat in a release issued here.The CMO, however, blamed the secretariat for the entire episode.“The secretariat should have ensured that they had permission to use the aircraft before the governor’s departure from his official residence. The state government is not at fault and the officials at the governor house responsible for negligence will have to face the action following the directives issued by the chief minister Uddhav Thackeray in this regard,” stated the CMO statement.“The chief minister has taken serious cognisance of the episode and has directed the administration to fix the responsibility on the officials concerned at Raj Bhavan,”the CMO said, indicating that action would be taken against the officials for not informing the governor about the permission updates.The request from the Governor House was pending for approval till Wednesday night. The Governor’s office was also informed about the status of the request, officials said.As per the procedure, CMO approves all requests for using government aircraft and informs the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA), which gives further clearances, the officials said.In its clarification, CMO said, “The state government received a request from the Governor House for using the aircraft. As per the accepted practice, permission is sought for the use of aircraft and after getting approval it can be used. On Wednesday, the Governor House was informed that the CMO was yet to clear the request. The secretariat is expected to finalise travel plans and bring the governor to the airport based on the permissions for using the aircraft, but it didn’t happen. The governor could not travel to the desired destination in the government aircraft because the concerned officials at Raj Bhavan didn’t take any confirmation.”“In fact, Raj Bhavan officials are expected to take all precautions for a person appointed at an important position such as governor, but that didn’t happen and he (Koshyari) had to face this. Taking serious note of the incident, the chief minister has directed to fix responsibility of the concerned officials,” CMO said.Chief secretary Sanjay Kumar said he didn’t have any information. “I don’t know anything about this. CMO and the state aviation department deal with the issue.’Following the controversy, Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party slammed the Thackeray government, saying that the incident has maligned Maharashtra’s image.Former chief minister and leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis slammed the MVA government over the incident. “The Governor was not given the permission to use and he had to deboard the aircraft. We have never seen such an egoistic government in Maharashtra ever. It is completely wrong on part of Uddhav Thackeray (CM) to make an ego issue out of everything. It is not someone’s personal property but of the state,” Fadnavis said in his response.“I don’t think denying the use of an aircraft will affect the Governor in any way but it has certainly maligned the image of the state,” he stressed.State protocol minister Aaditya Thackeray, who is also Yuva Sena chief, youth wing of Shiv Sena, didn’t respond to calls and text messages.Shiv Sena leader and chief spokesperson said dismissed the charges of the opposition that the Sena-led state government acted with vendetta and disrespect against Koshyari. Speaking to reporters in New Delhi, Raut said the state was merely following the rules laid down by the Home ministry for use of government machinery for private or personal use.“Maharashtra government or the chief minister has not and will not do anything to disreSpect the governor. I spoke to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray about it. There are rules and regulations set by the Home Ministry if the Governor wants to use the state machinery for his personal or private engagements. If the government had broken these rules then the government would have been blamed. The Maharashtra government has merely followed these rules... Nobody can use government machinery for their personal and private use, not even the chief minister,” Raut said.In an indirect attack on the Governor over the approval of 12 nominated members of legislative council (MLCs), Raut said that not clearing the recommendation of the Cabinet is an “insult of the Constitution and democracy”. “The biggest insult of the Constitution and democracy is not approving the names of 12 Governor-appointed members despite the State Cabinet giving its recommendation. The opposition party and BJP must speak on this issue,” he said. He also attacked the governor stating that Koshyari is a BJP leader and the Raj Bhavan was used for party activities than state affairs. “What has the BJP got to do with this issue? If they are feeling so bad [about it] they should have given him a plane; they have several commercial planes. Koshyari saheb is a BJP leader. Of late in Raj Bhavan party activities are going on than the affairs of the State,” he said.Raut refuted allegations that the state government acted in a disrespectful manner. He said, “Instead, the state has upheld the Constitution and the rules. Whenever the governor needed airplane or helicopter for official use, the government has duly provided him that. Koshyari saheb is also the Goa governor, too, where there is a BJP government. He should use their machinery and put some burden on that government as well. There is no question of acting with vendetta. The government has only followed the ruled.”Responding to Fadnavis’s allegation that the MVA government is egoistic, Raut said, “How has following rules become a question of ego? If the manner in which the Centre has behaved in the matter of the three laws is following the rules, then how can governor not getting the plane become an ego tussle? Should we not follow the rules.” He added, “Who said that the commercial airplanes are unsafe [during Covid]. If that is the case, then looking at his age, he should not step out of Raj Bhavan.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-government-doesn-t-allow-governor-koshyari-to-use-state-plane-101613068639866.html
12-02-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: UG medical, dental final-year exams to start from March 8||HT Correspondent The Maharashtra University for Health Sciences (MUHS) on Thursday postponed final-year undergraduate medical and dental winter exams until March. Last month, the authorities had postponed the exams from January to February and now, the exams will commence from March 8.“Exams for all final year MBBS and BDS (old and new syllabus), Bachelor in Ayurveda, Medicine and Surgery (BAMS), Bachelor of Unani Medicine and Surgery (BUMS), basic Bachelor in Science (BSc) in Nursing, will now commence from March 8,” stated the circular released on Thursday. A new schedule has also been uploaded on MUHS website.With no reason shared by the authorities on the postponement, students are getting anxious by the day about the constant delay. “All undergraduate exams other than final year exams were conducted across December and January and even the post graduate course exams have started. Only the final-year UG exams are being postponed with no specific reason,” said one of the students.Several students have also raised objection to the decision of the authorities to conduct exams offline. However, after the first and second year exams were conducted offline in December, institutes are sure the MUHS will continue all exams offline.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtraug-medical-dental-final-year-exams-to-start-from-march-8-101613068580784.html
12-02-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra likely to get 3rd batch of Covid vaccine on Monday||Maharashtra is likely to get a third consignment of 1.03 million doses of the Covishield vaccine (manufactured by Serum Institute of India) on Monday, meant for the remaining part of the first and second phases of the nationwide mass inoculation programme against Covid-19.The state government had earlier received around 1.8 million doses in two instalments for the drive that started from January 16. Now, according to the state health department, more than a million healthcare workers (HCWs) and 550,000 frontline workers (FLWs) have registered on the centralised app—CoWIN for vaccination. The state government will therefore require around 3 million doses as the inoculation comprises two shots given 28 days apart. “It is expected that SII will start their nation-wide disbursement of 11 million doses of Covishield on Monday. So, we will most likely receive the third consignment of 1.03 million doses on Monday,” said a senior officer from the state health department. Until Wednesday, the state had vaccinated 503,002 HCWs and 372,223 FLWs. However, the overall turnout of the state is 45%, which is below the national turnout rate of 55%. The state government is planning to start the second shot of Covishield from February 14 for beneficiaries who took the first shot on January 16.According to experts, the first dose of the vaccine helps to recognise the virus and ramp up the immune system that helps the body to fight the disease. The second dose is called the booster shot, which helps in further boosting up the immune system in the system. Hence, the administration of both is necessary.“When the vaccine enters our body, it produces protein, which triggers the immune cells to produce antibodies. This protects us from the infection,” said Dr Om Srivastava, a city-epidemiologist who insisted people on taking both the shots.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-likely-to-get-3rd-batch-of-covid-vaccine-on-monday-101613068460114.html
12-02-2021||Other||Maharashtra: Class 10 students want 50% marks from internal tests||As schools in the city continue to teach online for the past 10 months, a majority of the students are stressed about the upcoming Class 10 state board exams, a recent survey has indicated. According to the survey, 83% students in Mumbai, Thane and Navi Mumbai want internal evaluations to form 50% of the weightage of the total board exams scores. The survey was conducted by Jaywant Kulkarni, a teacher from Gandhi Bal Mandir High School in Kurla, with the help of Google Forms. Over a thousand students from across 110 schools responded to the survey, with a majority of them from Mumbai, followed by Thane and Navi Mumbai. The findings of the survey showed that over 60% of students reported they had only managed to study up to 50% of the syllabus for the board exams this year. Such students said online learning was not enough for them to gain confidence to write board exams. Around 65% of respondents said they were worried about not being able to complete their papers in time, as they had lost writing practice. For instance, Monica Sakhre, a Class 10 student from Samta High School, Andheri, said there is a lot of anxiety among students in her class regarding the boards. “We haven’t written papers in the school like students do every year. Our prelims are also being held online which is not the same thing as offline exams. Many students had migrated to their hometowns and lost on a lot of learning. We hope the state considers our woes,” she added. The Class 10 exams will be held between April 29 and May 31. While the exams are held in March, they have been postponed this year owing to the pandemic and the lockdown. Despite this, however, nearly half of the students surveyed said they still did not get enough time to prepare. As per the responses, nearly 80% of schools are yet to finish their syllabus. Most students were worried about clearing geometry and science 1 exams. Kulkarni said there is a lot of anxiety among students about the exams this year, especially in Mumbai, as schools are still shut. “Online learning is not enough for these students and because physical schools are shut, they are not able to get personalised attention that is usually provided in schools. While students are extremely worried, there is no change in the paper pattern or the difficulty level of board exams which is making them even more concerned,” he added. Supporting the findings, a civic school principal said children from low-income households were at a bigger loss due to school closures. “Many families are already facing financial burden and can’t afford coaching classes. Students are completely dependent on schools. While teachers are trying their best, it is challenging to reach out to children online. We hope that schools are allowed to reopen soon,” said the principal. he state education department recently started a free counselling programme for students, 80% students surveyed said they did not know about the initiative.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/maharashtra-class-10-students-want-50-marks-from-internal-tests-101613068399732.html
12-02-2021||Delhi||AAP criticises Centre for giving land at throwaway price for Delhi BJP office||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Thursday criticised the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) led Central government for sanctioning over 2 acres of land at Deen Dayal Upadhyay (DDU) Marg in Central Delhi at just ₹2 crore to Delhi BJP to build its office.Addressing a press conference, senior AAP leader and chief spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj said the allocated land was not meant for building any political party office, but to build a school.“In 2014, when the BJP government was formed in the Centre, they made many big promises such as giving jobs to more than one crore youths and giving farmers 1.5 times more price for their produce. But, the only group of people who benefitted from all schemes of the Central government has been the BJP,” he said.On Wednesday, the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) changed the land use of the said plot at DDU Marg from “nursery” to “public and semi-public”, allowing the Delhi unit of the BJP to legally apply for the land for its office. At present, the Delhi BJP office operates from a bungalow at Pandit Pant Marg.DDA vice-chairperson Anurag Jain on Wednesday had said that the decision was taken in the authority meeting of DDA. “After listening to all the objections received and addressing all concerns, the land use has been changed from nursery to public and semi-public. It will now be sent to the Central government for notification,” said Jain.The AAP criticised the Central government for changing the land-use of the plot under which now constructing a school, as previously planned, will not be possible.“On behalf of the AAP, I want to ask the BJP how can they get 10,000 gaz (two acres) land in this posh area in just ₹2 crore? Is it not true that this land was sanctioned to build a school,” Bhardwaj said.He further stated that when AAP went to the Central government asking for a plot to build its party headquarters, the Centre claimed it had no land available.“In the last Delhi assembly election, the BJP got just eight seats out of 70 and the AAP received 62 out of 70 seats. For the party, which is ruling Delhi, the BJP-ruled Central government claims to have no land for them to build a party office. They asked us to pay crores of rupees as rent for this office which we have today and the BJP government had also tried to evict us from here repeatedly,” Bhardwaj said.The Delhi BJP countered the claims by saying it has proper documents to show that it was allotted 809 square metres of land at DDU Marg for its office.“It is a government policy is that all political parties should be allotted land in Delhi and accordingly, the Delhi BJP had applied for land for its office in 2001. The party then moved the Delhi high court for getting this piece of land. Thereafter, it was on May 12, 2010, that land was allotted to us. There is nothing illegal in this,” said Delhi BJP general secretary Kuljeet Singh Chahal.He said the AAP was “wrongly describing” it as a 10,000 square yard plot, whereas in reality, it is of 809 square metres.“The cost of the land was deposited in 2001 for the same at the prevailing rates at that time and the AAP is showing it as if the payment has been made in today’s time, which is a total lie. On the contrary, it is the AAP which has constructed its office on government land,” Chahal said.Neither the AAP has the land allotted for its current office, nor has it deposited any amount in this regard, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/aap-criticises-centre-for-giving-land-at-throwaway-price-for-delhi-bjp-office-101613067381485.html
12-02-2021||Delhi||Will share details of protester’s death on R-Day with kin: Police||The Delhi Police on Thursday told the Delhi high court that they have nothing to hide in the death of a 25-year-old farmer during the tractor rally on Republic Day. Police reiterated that farmer Navreet Singh had died of injuries sustained after his tractor overturned during the parade and said they were ready to share the CCTV footage of the incident.Advocate Rahul Mehra, standing counsel for the Delhi government (criminal cases), informed justice Yogesh Khanna that the police have no hesitancy in sharing the evidence and case documents with Navreet Singh’s grandfather, who had approached the high court seeking a court-monitored probe into the death of his grandson.“We have no hesitancy in sharing the documents and CCTV clips related to the case. We will preserve them and give them whenever they are required,” Mehra told the court, while terming Singh’s death as “unfortunate”. The police also told the court that they have registered a general FIR in the case.Navreet’s grandfather Hardeep Singh, through his counsel Vrinda Grover and Soutik Banerjee, alleged that his grandson was shot by the police during the tractor parade as a result of which his tractor overturned and rammed the barricades.The petition also said the Delhi Police had falsely declared that Singh had died due to the accidental overturning of the tractor even though they did not fairly investigate the cause of death.Arguing for the grandfather, advocate Grover told the court that the way Delhi Police has conducted themselves in the matter “does not inspire a shred of confidence”.She said the Andhra School Society, outside which the tractor had overturned, had several cameras and the police had barged into the school (Republic Day being a holiday), and taken away the DVR of all the CCTV cameras. She said the police had then selectively released a piece of the footage -- one that offers only a long shot of the incident and hence is not very clear.Grover argued that the police had abandoned all procedures -- such as carrying out inquest proceedings, conducting a post-mortem examination and lodging an FIR -- as required under the law into Singh’s death, even if it was a case of accidental death.She contended that the victim’s grandfather took the body back to their native place in Uttar Pradesh where the post-mortem examination was carried out.Grover told the court that according to a UK-based pathologist, who saw the video of the incident and also perused the post-mortem report, the injuries on the victim were consistent with at least one or two gunshot wounds.The plea had said that several medical/forensic experts who have reviewed the description of injuries in the post-mortem report have independently made statements opining that the injuries are consistent with firearm /gunshot wounds, and that the said injuries could not have resulted from the tractor overturning.The high court has issued notices to the Delhi government, the Delhi Police and the SHO of Bilaspur (Uttar Pradesh) police station (where the autopsy was conducted) and will further hear the matter on February 26.On January 26, thousands of protesting farmers who had reached ITO from the Ghazipur border and clashed with police. Many of them also reached the Red Fort from where another bout of violence was reported. Several protesters and personnel were injured in the violence that day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/will-share-footage-evidence-of-tractor-rally-death-with-navreet-s-grandfather-police-tell-hc-101613067380443.html
12-02-2021||Delhi||HC asks SC committee to look into plea for shifting Metro corridor underground||The Delhi High Court on Thursday asked a committee of the Supreme Court to consider a representation for changing Phase IV of Metro expansion project from overground to underground to prevent cutting of over 11,000 trees.The Central Empowered Committee (CEC) was set up by the Supreme Court to look into environmental issues arising out of the Phase IV of the Metro construction.Justice Prathiba M Singh declined to entertain a petition by Dr P C Prasad and advocate Aditya N Prasad who had contended that felling over 11,000 trees for the project would have an adverse effect on the ambient air quality of the national capital where pollution is at “critical” levels. The court said that the matter was in the domain of the Supreme Court and CEC and therefore, the petitioners — a doctor and a lawyer — have to first approach the committee.The court declined to hear the matter after the lawyer for Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) said it had filed an application in the Apex court regarding the objections towards its expansion and the top court on February 2 had directed the CEC to look into it and file a report within four weeks.The DMRC lawyer said that the CEC has fixed a meeting on Thursday at 3.00 pm and the petitioners can join the same. In view of the submission made by DMRC, the court said it will not entertain the petition at this stage but directed CEC to consider the representation of the petitioners.The petition had claimed that the Phase-IV expansion of the Metro, which involves three corridors -- Delhi Aero city to Tughlakabad, RK Ashram to Janakpuri West and Maujpur to Mukundpur -- was being constructed on “deemed forest land” for which no forest clearance has been obtained.The plea had also claimed that cutting trees in such huge numbers “will cause irreparable damage and harm to the environment as well as health of the residents of New Delhi”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hc-asks-apex-court-committee-to-look-into-plea-for-shifting-phase-iv-metro-corridor-underground-101613067378742.html
12-02-2021||Delhi||HC declines to interfere with East Kidwai Nagar revamp project||The Delhi high court on Thursday declined to interfere with the East Kidwai Nagar Redevelopment project, saying it was in tune with the Master of Delhi (MPD) 2021 even as the court assigned specific tasks to several agencies involved in order to address concerns raised by the residents of South Extension-II who petitioned the court in 2014.The high court observed that while decentralisation of offices was the need of the hour, it cannot be said that there was total prohibition on relocation of central PSU offices within Delhi at present. “One can only say that the government must work towards the fulfilment of this goal that has been set in the MPD,” Justice Navin Chawla said.The East Kidwai Nagar project is one of the massive residential redevelopment plans around the Ring Road. The complex, spreading over 86 acres, aims to construct more than 6,000 residential and commercial plots. As per the central government’s plan, eight areas are being developed as group housing societies —East Kidwai Nagar, Sarojini Nagar, Netaji Nagar, Nauroji Nagar, Kasturba Nagar, Thyagaraja Nagar, Srinivaspuri and Mohammadpur where more than 25,000 flats for government employees are being made in these neighbourhoods.The court on Thursday directed the National Buildings Construction Corporation (NBCC), which is carrying out the project, to not hand over the possession of the commercial space at East Kidwai Nagar until compensatory transplantation is carried out and the 10% excess earmarking of commercial space adjoining the Darya Khan Tomb is not compounded.The court said mere grant of sanction by the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) for construction, cannot give the right to the NBCC to encroach upon a protected monument area where no construction could be done within 100 metres according to the norms of the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI).“…The project has been considered by various Authorities like the state Level Environment Impact Assessment Authority, National Monuments Authority, Delhi Pollution Control Committee, Unified Traffic & Transportation Infrastructure (Planning and Engineering) Centre, New Delhi Municipal Council, Delhi Urban Arts Commission, etc. In absence of any specific challenge to any of such permissions, this court cannot sit as an appellate body over such authorities to reassess the permissions so granted,” the court said.Advocate Manali Singhal, who represented the petitioners, said the project violated traffic, pollution and environment norms. She said the project does not provide for adequate infrastructure in form of roads, open spaces, water supply, green belt, etc and alleged violation of various conditions imposed by the authorities while granting permissions for the project.The court said that it has to be ensured that for lack of parking space in the colony, vehicles are not parked outside on the main or the arterial roads. It directed the authorities, including Delhi Police to ensure “strict policing and zero tolerance” to avoid congestion.“Once the order is read and understood, the court orders will be implemented as directed,” the Delhi traffic police said.The authorities had told the court that they had already planted 14,575 trees till October 2019 as compensatory plantation out the total 15,455 approved. A senior forest department official said the orders of the court will be followed and a report of its implementation will also be prepared.The court also rejected the challenge to the project on the ground of lack of social infrastructure. The plea said that even the area earmarked for social infrastructure is being used for commercial purposes. This, however, has been refuted by NBCC that out of the total permissible area of 56221.70 sqm, actual constructed area for social infrastructure is 32,111 sqm with additional construction of 2,000 sqm.It also said that there is no shopping mall being constructed in the complex. It said that it is only a local shopping centre which will be used only for purposes of shops that are required for the colony.The court said that in view of the Centre’s submission, the contention is unmerited.The judge also said that while there is no doubt that the project of this proportion does put tremendous pressure on the existing infrastructure, it has to be considered from the point of view of the Master and the Zonal Development Plans.“The impact of the project on the infrastructure is also to be considered by the Authorities charged with the function of granting sanction to such a project and to keep a check on compliance with the various conditions imposed by them in such sanction.In the present case, the various respondents have given details of the permissions granted by them to the project. They have also taken a stand that there is no violation of the conditions imposed by them. In the petition there was no specific challenge to any of the permissions/sanctions so granted. In such a scenario, vague pleas of violation of any conditions imposed cannot hold any water,” the court said.NBCC did not immediately offer a comment on the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hc-declines-to-interfere-with-east-kidwai-nagar-revamp-project-says-it-is-in-tune-with-mpd2021-101613067379256.html
12-02-2021||Delhi||Winter over, this February could be among the warmest: IMD||The temperature in the national capital hit the 30 degree Celsius mark in February at its earliest point in 15 years, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said, as the winter comes to a close in Delhi, with temperatures forecast to rise for most of the month. Data maintained by the weather department shows that the maximum temperature last crossed 30°C in the first half of February in 2006.According to IMD data the maximum temperature recorded on Wednesday at the Safdarjung weather station, considered to be the official marker of the city, was 30.4°C, seven above the season’s normal.To be sure, experts at the weather office said the early spike in temperature was neither “unusual” nor necessarily indicative of an abnormally warm month, or summer.On Thursday, the maximum temperature dipped again and reached 26.1°C, three above the season’s normal, while the minimum was 9.6°C. Scientists, however, said this fall in temperature would be temporary and predicted that the mercury will rise again. In fact, between February 13 and February 21, the maximum temperature is expected to scale above the 30°C-mark again.February 2006 also holds the record for the highest maximum temperature for the month, when the mercury in the Capital touched 34.1°C on February 26, nearly 11 degrees above normal.IMD records show that the mean maximum temperature for February is 23.9°C, and the mean minimum is 10.4°C.IMD scientists said that while this February has seen a rising trend in the temperatures earlier than previous years, Wednesday’s spike in mercury was caused by the impact of a western disturbance, which also led to a change in wind direction.Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said there were clear skies over Delhi on Wednesday, and winds were blowing from the south-west.“Winds from this direction are generally warmer, which impacted the temperature,” Srivastava said.“Though touching 30°C is not unusual for February, temperatures have not been rising this early in the month. For the remaining part of the month too, we do not foresee any drastic fall in temperatures or any sign of cold wave or cold days being recorded,” another senior IMD scientist said.The scientist also clarified that early recordings of high temperatures was not indicative of the month being headed as the warmest in the last few years.“The exact picture of whether this could feature in the list warmest February months, will have to be seen once we take the MMTs (mean maximum/minimum temperatures),” he said.Meanwhile, pollution levels also deteriorated on Thursday. Recordings by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) show that the overall air quality index (AQI) in Delhi was 330, in the ‘very poor’ zone.On Wednesday, the AQI had improved to the ‘poor’ range, clocking 291 in the AQI scale. Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar), forecast said that the AQI levels are expected to remain in the ‘very poor’ zone in the coming days. An improvement is only seen after February 15, according to Safar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/earliest-30-c-temperature-in-february-in-15-years-101613067318718.html
12-02-2021||Delhi||Coolers, fans, shade: Protesters at borders prepare a summer plan||Tarpaulin tents at the Capital’s borders will soon be replaced with mosquito nets, fans and coolers will replace the braziers and fireplaces, while water coolers will outnumber water tankers as farmers protesting against the three new farm laws at Singhu, Ghazipur and Tikri began to chalk out plans for the summer, as concerns began to emerge among union leaders that the heat may force crowds away. Scientists at the India Meteorological Department had on Wednesday said winter was on its way out as temperatures in the Capital begin their steady rise.Mannu Tyagi, a member of the Bhartiya Kisan Union who has been camping at Ghazipur, said coolers and fans have already been ordered. “We expect them to arrive by the end of this month. Other items we may need for the summer are also being purchased. All arrangements will be made to minimise the discomfort to protesters, so that the agitation continues without any hurdle,” Tyagi said.Farmers unions at Ghazipur have also placed orders for water coolers, mosquito nets, plastic sheets and summer tents, protesters aware of the matter said.On Thursday, announcements were made from the stage at the Ghazipur border, assuring protesters that steps are being taken to prepare the protest site for summer. “All of us need to keep the movement going. Don’t worry about the weather —the Kisan Ekta Morcha is all set to make arrangements for summers. We faced problems in winters, but came together overcame it,” the speaker said.Mahender Pal Singh, 44, a farmer from Muzaffarnagar, who came to Ghazipur border after January 26, said they are planning to remove the tarpaulin covering their tent. “These sheets can be replaced with mosquito nets and we will sleep under the sky. During the day, desert coolers and fans will keep us cool. We are planning to go home and return with pedestal fans and coolers. We will also bring our summer clothes,” Singh said.Rajbir Singh, a farmer from Baghpat said a shade will be erected to protect protesters from the sun. “Water coolers and ice will be so that everyone gets cold water. Drinks will be served to keep the agitators hydrated. More water will also have to be arranged,” he said.The organisers said they are also in touch with gurdwara committees to arrange for the amenities needed to keep the movement going during the summers.Farmers at Singhu border also said if the government does not repeal the farmers, they will make arrangements for summers from March.Daniel Moosa, an independent farmer from Patiala, Punjab, said if they need to continue the protest longer they are planning to set up shades. “We cannot have a sit-in protest under the sun. We will need shades. We are also planning to bring in more get generators to run the fans and coolers uninterrupted, in case the government disconnects the power supply. Our farmer leaders keep holding meetings. They are also planning to install solar panels to save cost of running generators,” said Moosa, who has been camping at Singhu border November 26 onwards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/10000-coolers-5-000-fans-water-coolers-and-sunshades-to-keep-the-agitators-cool-101613067260877.html
12-02-2021||Delhi||Delhi Budget to go big on health, transport and infra||The Delhi Budget this year will focus on health, basic infrastructure and transport, senior officials who are drafting the document said, adding government is likely to announce free Covid-19 vaccines for all and a cloud-based patient information management system.They said government may hold the budget session of the Delhi assembly between March 12 and 20 which will the first after the Covid-19 pandemic. In the last budget (2020-21), which came soon after the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) swept to power in the February 8 assembly elections last year, the government allocated ₹7,704 crore for the health sector, nearly 3% more than the previous fiscal. Health may get the highest allocation this year, the officials said.Click here for complete Covid-19 coverage“Among the big-ticket healthcare projects to be announced this year will be the cloud-based health information management system (HIMS). The chief minister has issued directions to roll out the project by August this year. It will start with Delhi government hospitals and then expanded to dispensaries and mohalla clinics. Upgrading a couple of hospitals with increased bed capacity is also on the cards,” said a senior health department official on condition of anonymity.The HIMS project envisages digital health cards for patients, which will be essentially a QR code-based system that will keep a record of clinical details such as health checks, follow-ups, surgeries, medications and vaccinations for each patient. The system is also supposed to include a mobile phone application as well as a 24x7 call centre to help patients with health-related information, fix consultations and other assistance.In its past budgets, the AAP government has consistently allocated the maximum share of its resources for education, followed by health. This year, the health sector is likely to get an increased allocation. Last year, the government allocated ₹15,815 crore for education, an increase of 1.3% from the previous year.The first case of Covid-19 in Delhi was detected on March 2, 2020, after which the city saw three waves of infections. The third and the worst wave peaked on November 11, when around 8,500 cases of the viral infection were recorded on a single day, according to the Delhi government.“In last year’s budget, the government allocated ₹50 crore in the Covid-19 management fund. This is likely to continue this year and will be increased in all likelihood as the focus shifts to vaccination. The Delhi government is working on making Covid vaccine free for the general public. The Central government has made it free only for healthcare workers and frontline workers,” said a second health official.Dr Suneela Garg, advisor to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and a member of Delhi’s Covid vaccination plan said a lot of work still needs to be done in terms strengthening health infrastructure in Delhi.With elections in the three Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled municipal corporations scheduled next year, senior AAP leaders said the government is also finding additional ways to optimise resources so as to ease the financial crisis faced by the three civic bodies. The bypolls to five municipal wards will be held on February 28, and the AAP is eyeing these seats to increase its stake in the city’s municipal affairs, a senior AAP member said.Between January 5 and 25, the government issued orders to all departments asking them to tighten their expenses by prioritising projects under their jurisdiction.Transport sector may also get a higher outlay this year as the Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) will start bringing in its new 1,000 low-floor buses and the first lot of the electric buses will also be brought in.“DTC’s order for buses alone accounts for ₹893 crore with an additional annual maintenance cost of ₹300 crore in the first year since rolling out of these buses. The revised estimate for the transport sector in 2020-21 was about ₹5,000 crore, this is likely to touch ₹7,000 crore in the Delhi Budget 2021-22,” said a senior transport official.The unfinished projects which are likely to witness investments in the upcoming budget include the plan on redesigning of 540 km of road stretches, the slum rehabilitation project, expanding the water supply network and developing a business park at Rani Khera in northwest Delhi.“The government has hired consultants for all these projects and they will be rolled out in phases soon. There are no plans to launch new big projects and welfare schemes this year but the government plans to continue investing in the existing ones – especially subsidies on power bills, water and bus commute for women – and allocating money for some of the unfinished ones,” said a senior government official.The official said, “The government plans to launch the first phase of the slum rehabilitation project with 41,400 EWS houses by October 2022. For the 150-acre business park at Rani Khera, the government has been asked to launch the first phase by May 2023. The deadlines were given by the CM in review meetings chaired by him earlier this month.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-budget-to-go-big-on-health-transport-and-infra-101613067260331.html
12-02-2021||Delhi||SDMC budget doubles LAD funds from ₹50 lakh to ₹1cr||The South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) in its final budget presentation on Thursday doubled the councillors’ funds for Local Area Development (LAD), from ₹50 lakh per councillor per year to ₹1 crore per councillor per year.Besides that, the SDMC made a provision to provide ₹10,000 to councillors per ward to celebrate national days such as Independence Day and Republic Day. The civic body has also decided to hike funds to celebrate festivals such as Ramlila, Krishnalila and Chhath Puja from ₹50 Lakh to ₹1 crore.It also scrapped the provision of increasing the property tax and reduction in concessions, which were proposed by the SDMC additional commissioner in the budget presentation for the financial year 2021-22 in December.Reacting to the budget, senior Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader and the party’s municipal affairs in-charge Durgesh Pathak said the budget is nothing but a “money-making exercise for councillors”.Presenting the final budget for the financial year 2021-22, leader of the SDMC house Narendra Chawla said that the civic body has decided to double the LAD funds from ₹50 Lakh to ₹1 crore for each ward and also made a provision to create a new head of account for the allocation of ₹50 Lakh for the deputy chairperson of each zone.“This should not be seen as money being given to the councillors -- it is for the development of wards. It will be reserved for citizen-centric works as they were impacted by the Covid-19 last year. We will make arrangements to generate additional funds for the purpose. We will bring more people under our tax net to bridge the (revenue) gap,” Chawla said.He added that to generate more revenue, the civic body will rely on completing its ongoing remunerative projects and lease out its commercial and other properties. “We will make provisions for holding night markets to earn more revenue. We will also rent out empty spaces in our office buildings and also allow advertisements on toilet blocks and dhalaos (garbage collection centres). All these efforts will generate more revenue,” Chawla said.In the budget, the civic body has decided not to levy extra taxes from residents. “We know that due to coronavirus pandemic, people are already troubled, and we don’t want to put an extra burden on their pockets in terms of a tax hike. So, we have decided to scrap recommendations to increase property tax. We have also decided not to implement recommendations of the municipal valuation committee-3 (MVC-3), which proposes to double the tax amount on rented commercial properties and banquet halls, among others. These are all people-centric decisions,” Chawla said.The civic body also decided to impose a fine of ₹50,000 on those found dumping building material along the roadside.He said the move will help in reducing pollution, especially dust pollution.The SDMC also announced the restarting of Atal Aahar Yojana, a scheme through which people will be provided food at ₹15 per meal. This scheme was first launched in 2017 and was stopped when the pandemic struck last year.Under the scheme, people will get a full plate of food (thali) for ₹15. “Initially, the scheme will restart with five inbuilt kitchen mobile vans in each zone and, later, two such vans will be made available in each ward of the SDMC,” an SDMC official, in the know of the matter, said.The civic body also decided to allow the keeping of an animal (either cow or buffalo) within the periphery of houses in rural and urban villages, without paying animal tax.Besides, the civic body also decided to allocate ₹25 lakh to each ward to improve the condition of roads with a width ranging between 30 feet and 60 feet.The SDMC will provide ₹500 to municipal schoolchildren and children of safai sainiks and gardeners to purchase tracksuits. The municipality also decided to launch a scheme to provide houses to kins of corona warriors who died on duty during the pandemic.AAP’s Durgesh Pathak said, “At a time when the municipalities are going through an acute financial crisis and employees are not being paid salaries, the SDMC has decided to increase councillor funds. The Delhi government has given them ₹1,095 crore for payment of salaries, which the MCDs are distributing among its councillors. MCDs have become a den of corruption. Instead of increasing councillor funds, the SDMC should think about its employees and the people.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/sdmc-budget-doubles-lad-funds-from-50-lakh-to-1cr-hikes-funds-per-ward-for-festivals-to-1cr-101613067259794.html
12-02-2021||Delhi||Three more arrested in R-Day violence case||The police have arrested three Delhi residents for their alleged role in violence at north Delhi’s Burari during the Republic Day’s tractor rally, officers said on Thursday.The special investigation team set up to probe incidents during the clashes between the police and security personnel arrested Guru Prakash, 34, a resident of Old Mahavir Nagar and Gurjeet Singh, 34, and Rajendra Singh 41, of Bhalswa Dairy on Wednesday evening.Police have already arrested eight men linked with violence in Burari .Burari was one of the areas where protesting farmers and police clashed with each other on Republic Day. Over 500 security personnel were injured in the clash and several public properties were damagedAt least 394 police personnel and 10 farmers were injured when farmers protesting against the three farm laws deviated from the route approved for the tractor rally, clashed with police personnel and stormed the Red Fort on January 26.In their ongoing investigation into the violence reported from different locations in Delhi on Republic Day, the police have identified at least 100 persons, using video analytics and face recognition software. The police are matching the photographs with records of the crime dossiers, transport department data and social media accounts. So far, 143 persons have been arrested in 40 cases registered at different police stations.Police have also appealed to the public to share CCTV footage and pictures of the violence. So far, the police have received 2,700 video clips from the people.Special commissioner of police Praveer Ranjan said Delhi police are conducting a scientific probe. “Help from forensic experts is being taken for identification of the suspects for a fair and balanced investigation,” he said.Several teams of the Delhi police are camping in Punjab in search for Jugraj Singh, the Tarn Taran resident who allegedly hoisted the two flags, a religious one and that of the farmers union, at Red Fort, officers aware of the matter said.Police said Jugraj is the “most important link” in the conspiracy to storm Red Fort on Republic Day. Delhi police have maintained that the violence on January 26 and vandalism at Red Fort was a pre-planned conspiracy.Delhi police officers said they have visited the ancestral village of Jugraj Singh in Tarn Taran and several other places in Punjab such as Ludhiana and Amritsar. The police have announced a reward of ₹10,000 on any information leading to the arrest of the 23-year-old.Jugraj’s family members have told police that they have not seen him since he left for Delhi on January 23. Police said Jugraj went to Delhi with at least 10 others.Deep Sidhu’s phone gave away his locationReports on social media suggested that the police were able to trace and arrest Punjabi actor-turned-activist Deep Sidhu on Monday after he switched on his phone to recharge his subscription for a Netflix account. No senior officer, who is authorised to issue press statements, commented on the reports.Delhi police officers said they are questioning Sidhu along with other two persons arrested for the violence at Red Fort.According to reports, Sidhu switched off his phone on January 27 within hours of police confirming in a press conference that the actor was under probe for the violence at Red Fort. While in hiding, Sidhu released at least five videos from his verified Facebook account claiming innocence and hitting out farm leaders who branded him a traitor.Deputy commissioner of police (special cell) Sanjeev Yadav said on Tuesday that a woman in the US was uploading the videos for Sidhu and the actor himself did not use Facebook to ensure that his location was not revealed to the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/three-more-arrested-in-r-day-violence-case-101613067259253.html
12-02-2021||Delhi||Modi invited to Jamia’s centenary convocation; AISA students to boycott event||After an invitation was extended to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, to be chief guest of the centenary convocation ceremony of Jamia Millia Islamia, which is to be held virtually, students affiliated to the All India Students Association (AISA) have threatened to boycott the event.On February 8, vice-chancellor Najma Akhtar had announced that the university had requested Modi to attend the centenary convocation ceremony “ and grace the occasion through virtual mode as the chief guest”. On Thursday, Jamia students affiliated to AISA condemned the move and said the university had been “under attack from the Narendra Modi-led BJP government.”A senior university official, requesting anonymity, said, “We have just extended an invitation to the PM and no date for the convocation has been decided as yet.”But, AISA in a statement on Thursday said, “The Jamia administration has shown its authoritarian and anti-student tendencies once again by inviting Narendra Modi through virtual mode as the chief guest of the centenary convocation. Students of the varsity are shocked and displeased over the Prime Minister being invited to Jamia Millia Islamia as his ideas cross the line into hate speech and communalism.”The student activists also raised the arrest of Jamia students for their alleged role in the Delhi riots and demanded an intervention by the administration in the matter. “We demand that Jamia administration uninvite PM Modi. We demand that Modi-led regime unconditionally release arrested Jamia students along with all political prisoners…Failure to comply with our demands would only cement our argument that Jamia administration is anti-student and pro-fascist and force our hand to call for a boycott of the centenary convocation if Narendra Modi is the chief guest,” AISA statement read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/modi-invited-to-jamia-s-centenary-convocation-aisa-students-threaten-to-boycott-event-101613067258602.html
12-02-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana enacts law on Hindi, but fails to implement it||With much fanfare, the Haryana assembly had passed an amendment Bill in March last year to make Hindi mandatory in all civil and criminal courts, revenue courts, rent tribunals and any other court or tribunal constituted by the state government.The Haryana Official Language (Amendment) Bill was assented to by the governor on March 31 last year and a notification was published on May 11 by the state’s law and legislative secretary. However, the amended provision is yet to come in force. Strangely, the state government made an omission by not issuing a notification for the amended provision of the law to commence.The commencement clause of the amended law says that it shall come in force on such date as the state government may by notification in the official gazette, appoint.The self-defeating “omission” has put Hindi proficient candidates appearing for the Haryana Civil Services (judicial branch) exams at a disadvantage as they will not be able to write their exams in Hindi language.The last date for applying for 229 vacancies of HCS (judicial branch) is February 15. Candidates proficient in Hindi and appearing for the exams said they had hoped to benefit from amended law as the Haryana Public Service Commission (HPSC) would have allowed them to write their exams in Hindi.“But in the absence of a notification to commence the amended law, the candidates won’t get the opportunity to write their exams bilingually - in English and Hindi,” said an official.Another official said the languages department has referred the matter to advocate general (AG) Baldev Raj Mahajan.The AG, who is now examining the “omission”, had himself told a bench of the Punjab and Haryana high court in June last year that though legislation (Haryana Official Language Amendment Act, 2020) has been enacted, it has been clearly laid down that it shall come into force on such date, as the state government may, by notification in the official gazette, appoint.Mahajan told the HC that no such notification has yet been issued and proper procedure would be followed in the eventuality notification under Section 1(2) of the Amended Act is to be issued. The advocate general was defending the state government during the hearing of a petition filed by practicing advocates, challenging the amended Official Languages Act making the use of Hindi mandatory in court work.The HC, subsequently on June 29, disposed off the petition terming it as a premature but granted liberty to the petitioners to file a fresh one in case commencement notification is issued. The petitioner had earlier filed a similar petition in the Supreme Court that was dismissed as withdrawn June 8 last after the petitioner sought permission to withdraw it and liberty to approach HC.Why the amendment?*The purpose of justice in a democracy is that the plaintiff should get justice quickly in his own language and should not remain speechless during the proceedings.*The state government received a demand letter signed by 78 MLAs, advocate general and hundreds of advocates to authorise the use of Hindi in courts.*Hindi being the predominantly spoken language in Haryana, use of the same for the purposes of working in courts has become a matter of practical necessity.(According to the statement of objects and reasons of the amendment Bill)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-enacts-law-fails-to-put-it-in-operation-101613064197735.html
12-02-2021||Pune||Restaurants, bars can remain open till 1am in Pune||Restaurants and bars have been allowed to remain open till 1am in Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits.The civic body has rolled back restrictions on the operational hours of bars and restaurants after Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC’s) decision to extend the timings last week.Vikram Kumar, municipal commissioner, PMC, on Thursday issued an order regarding the same.The order stated that the state government has already issued guidelines to operate restaurants and shops in city areas till post-midnight. “Therefore, as per this order, restaurants, bars, banquet halls and food courts can remain open in the city between 7am to 1am while other shops and establishments can remain open between 7am and 11pm. Also, shops selling liquor in the city have been allowed to remain open between 10am and 10.30pm,” the order states.As per earlier order by the civic body on October 24, 2020, the time of bars and restaurants was restricted from 10pm to 11.30 pm.Earlier on Tuesday (February 9), the president of Pune hotelier association which has more than 8,000 restaurants as its members, sent an email to PMC and district administration and demanded to extend the timing of restaurants and bars to 1am.Ganesh Shetty, president, Pune Hotelier Association, said, “We welcome the decision. This will increase the footfall by 10 to 15 per cent.”“Also, as Valentine’s Day is around the corner, it will help to increase footfall. It will take almost a month to normalise the business,” he said.Arun Shinde, a restaurant owner on Paud Road had earlier stressed on the necessity of extending the timings. “If customers come after 10.45pm, we cannot take them in due to restrictions of timings,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/restaurants-bars-can-remain-open-till-1am-in-pune-101613063659043.html
12-02-2021||Other||51% of targeted beneficiaries vaccinated in Pune dist on Thursday||At least 51 per cent of targeted beneficiaries were vaccinated against Covid-19 in Pune district on Thursday. According to the health officials Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) reported 71 per cent vaccination with 1,714 healthcare workers taking the jab out of 2,400. In Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC), 41 per cent vaccination was reported. Out of the 620 beneficiaries who took the jab, 262 were healthcare workers and 358 were frontline workers.In Pune rural 38 per cent vaccination was reported. Out of 909 total beneficiaries, 549 were healthcare workers and 360 were frontline workers.No beneficiaries showed any symptoms or allergies post-vaccination, said officials.The district, meanwhile, reported two deaths in the last 24 hours, according to the state health department. One death each was reported in Pune rural and PCMC on Thursday. No deaths were reported in PMC.Also, 559 new virus cases were reported which took the progressive count to 3,92,908 lakh cases of which 3,80,269 patients have recovered, 8,065 have been reported dead and 4,587 are active cases.PMC has so far reported 2,00,433 Covid cases and 4,554 deaths, whereas PCMC has reported 98,155 cases and a total of 1,320 Covid-related deaths. Pune rural has reported 94,320 total cases and 2,133 deaths. As per the state health department, 6,107 patients were discharged on Thursday in Maharashtra taking the total to 19,70,532 and the recovery rate is 95.84%.Across Maharashtra, 3,297 new cases of Covid were diagnosed on Thursday and 25 Covid-related deaths were reported. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.5%.Out of 1,51,63,781 laboratory samples, 20,52,905 have been tested positive till Thursday. That is 13.54% patients till Thursday. Currently, 1,66,785 people are in home quarantine and 1,852 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/51-of-targeted-beneficiaries-vaccinated-in-pune-dist-on-thursday-101613063657460.html
12-02-2021||Pune||Pune civic body to start 75 more vaccination sites||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) will increase the vaccination sites to 100 from the existing 25 sites, according to civic officials.Dr Ashish Bharati, chief, health department, PMC, said that the Centre has granted permission to open 75 more vaccination sites.“Earlier we had permission to conduct vaccination at 25 sites out of which currently 23 are functional. Now we are planning to gradually take the number to 100 in the city for vaccination of healthcare and frontline workers,” said Dr Bharati.He added that the new registration for vaccination of healthcare workers has been stopped.At least 65,000 frontline workers have registered for vaccination. On Thursday, 43 per cent targeted frontline workers were vaccinated. Also, 129 frontline workers were vaccinated at the Police Hospital, Shivajinagar.Dr Bharati added that so far two sites were inoculating frontline workers. “PMC-run Kamla Nehru Hospital and Rajiv Gandhi Hospital were vaccinating frontline workers. From today we have started the site at Police Hospital, Shivajinagar,” he said.“The turnout on the first two days for frontline workers was low. We are hoping it will improve in the coming days,” said Bharati.Dr Bharati also added that some private hospitals will also start inoculation of frontline workers at their sites soon.“Some private hospitals are keen to start vaccination for frontline workers. We will be permitting them to start soon,” said Bharati.“The first one to receive the jab were healthcare workers. We will be directing them to start taking the second jab as soon as they finish 28 days at the same site as the previous one,” said Dr Bharati.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-to-start-75-more-vaccination-sites-101613063658191.html
12-02-2021||Pune||“I escaped tree falling on me by fraction of a second”||Pune: A fraction of a second late and I would have been trapped under a huge tree that fell on a street last night in Karvenagar. I still feel stunned when I think of how narrowly I escaped from a mishap that could have been deadly,” said Hindustan Times photographer Pratham Gokhale.Sharing the incident, Gokhale said, “I was out of my house to buy vegetables on my two-wheeler on Wednesday evening. Around 9.45 pm, I stopped my two-wheeler in front of the vegetable vendor near Warje ward office. As soon as I parked the vehicle and walked a step towards the vendor, I heard a sound similar to a thunderstorm and, within a fraction of a second, a huge tree fell in my direction and landed just 2 inches behind me. Fortunately, I escaped the fall and was just left with dust and leaves all over my body.“If I would have taken one extra second to cross the street to go to the vegetable vendor, or if I would have been standing 2 inches behind where I was when the tree fell, I would have got trapped under the fallen tree.“There was neither a sign of wind nor it was raining, yet the tree got uprooted. The incident raises question about the regular audit of dangerous trees as Pune has reported deaths and injuries caused by being trapped under fallen trees and branches in the past.“I was fortunate enough to escape unhurt, but I wonder if there are any more such trees across the city which require attention and maintenance. Authorities should carry out regular inspection of trees to rule out the possibility of such incidents from happening.”Meanwhile, Prashant Ranpise, chief fire officer, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), said, “We prune branches of trees that could fall and cause personal injury or property damage after regular inspection. We ensure that necessary NOCs (no objection certificate) are issued only after due diligence”With inputs by Nadeem Inamdar||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/i-escaped-tree-falling-on-me-by-fraction-of-a-second-101613060717070.html
12-02-2021||Pune||Parents in Pune struggle to transport children to schools as pvt transporters await govt’s nod||Pune: The parents of Class 5 to 8 students are left with no choice but to drop and pick up their wards from schools as the state government has allowed offline classes of primary school to restart, but not okayed autorickshaws, school vans and buses to resume transportation of school students. Parents have to reschedule their office timings and other professional responsibilities to meet the school timings as absence from classes on school campuses is impacting the attendance of students. “Since the school resumed offline classes from last week, I could adjust my office timings to drop my son, who is in Class 6, to school and later pick him up from the campus. However, later on it became difficult for us as his school starts at 12.30 pm and my husband and I both have to reach our workplace by 10 am. As the authorities have not yet allowed autorickshaws to resume ferrying kids, our “kaka” cannot drop or pick up our son from school as he used to do all these years,” said Sangeeta Mantri. Many working parents who depend on private transport vehicles for pick and drop of their school-going kids have demanded the authorities to restart autorickshaw, school van and bus services immediately for transportation of children. “We have asked the union transport ministry, state transport department and local RTO office to give some relief to school van and bus transporters who have suffered financially due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Also, there need to be some guidelines to start the service, as there are already many rules and regulations for school buses regarding safety measures, bus attendant and with driver. As the number of students attending schools is limited now, the ferrying charges will be high and beyond the reach of some parents. Hence, the government should immediately interfere in the issue and give us a solution,” said Kiran Desai, executive president, Pune bus owners’ association. Bappu Bhave, president, Pune Vidyarthi Vahtuk Sanghatana said, “We are ready to restart our services as auto drivers also want to transport school children. We are yet to get any clear guidelines from the state government and even schools are not allowing us to restart the service. Our auto drivers daily get calls from parents to restart the transportation service, but we are helpless as we cannot take a decision without the approval from the transport department.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/parents-in-pune-struggle-to-transport-children-to-schools-as-pvt-transporters-await-govt-s-nod-101613058856667.html
12-02-2021||Pune||36th National Junior Athletic Championship: Pune’s Choudhari wins gold medal in 400m hurdles||Pune: City’s Siddhesh Choudhari achieved his personal best of 53.91 seconds to clinch gold, his first national medal, at the 400 metre hurdles in the under-18 category at the 36th National Junior Athletics Championships that concluded at Guwahati on Wednesday. It was a tight finish for the 18-year-old as he beat his nearest opponent by 0.3 seconds. The second place was achieved by Nashik’s Swyam Badhe (53.94seconds). Ankit from Rajasthan settled for the bronze with 54.06 seconds. “I was happy to beat my earlier best of 54.88 seconds. In the heats I was slow but managed to achieve first place with the timings of 55.60 seconds,” said Choudhari, who trains at Shiv Chhatrapati Sports Complex in Balewadi under coach Jaikumar Tembhare. “I was lagging till the eighth hurdle. Swyam was ahead and while crossing the last hurdle (there are 10 hurdles in 400m hurdles event), I managed to outrun him,” he said. Though Tembhare is happy with Choudhari’s feat, he expects improvement in his timings. “Siddhesh is serious about his workout. I am sure he can achieve better timings. As he is still raw, we will be working on his start going ahead. As he graduates into higher age categories, improving timings is our top priority,” said Tembhare. Avantika grabs fourth spot Pune’s Avantika Narale who had won the 100 metre gold had to be content with fourth place finish in the 200 metre as he finished the race with the timing of 25.12 seconds. The gold went to Sudeshna Shiva of Satara (24.65 seconds) followed by silver and bronze medal to Deepti from Telangana (24.67 seconds) and Priya from Karnataka (24.83 seconds) respectively. Rujula best emerging player City’s Rujula Bhonsle bagged the best emerging player trophy at the meet for winning the 60 metre gold with making a national record. Bhonsle claimed the gold with timing of 7.96 seconds. Maharashtra finishes fifth With eight gold, 10 silver and 11 bronze medals, Maharashtra stood fifth at the end of the 36th National Junior Athletic Championship. Haryana grabbed top spot with 21 gold, 20 silver and 14 bronze medals. The second and third place was bagged by Tamil Nadu (13 gold, 12 silver, 12 bronze) and Uttar Pradesh (13 gold, 8 silver, 14 bronze) medals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/36th-national-junior-athletic-championship-pune-s-chaudhari-wins-gold-medal-in-400m-hurdles-101613052735693.html
12-02-2021||World||France recommends 1-shot vaccine for people who had virus||France’s highest health authority recommended Friday that people who have had Covid-19 receive only one dose of a vaccine against the coronavirus.The High Authority of Health, or HAS, said that since recovered individuals had developed an immunity response akin to a vaccine, a single shot is probably sufficient.“A single vaccine dose will also play the role of reminding” a previously infected person's immune system how to fight Covid-19, the independent body said in an opinion report.If applied, the decision is expected to speed up the pace of France's vaccination drive. All three of the vaccines authorised for use in the European Union (EU) -- made by Pfizer, Moderna and AstraZeneca -- were developed to be administered in two doses delivered a few weeks apart.In trial studies, a two-shot dosing schedule was shown to be the only way to increase immunity against the virus to near-full level.France has been under fire for the slow rollout of its vaccination program. Prime Minister Jean Castex has characterized the rollout as having “a brisk pace,” and promised last week that 4 million shots -- both first and second doses — would be given this month.French authorities reported Thursday that over 2.1 million people had received one vaccine dose, of whom over 535,000 also had got their second shot.Researchers at New York’s Mount Sinai medical school also recently began studying vaccine effects in people who’d previously had Covid-19.The results are preliminary, posted on a website for researchers, but among 109 vaccine recipients those who’d previously been infected had 10 to 20 times higher antibody levels after the first dose of vaccine -- and retained higher levels after a second dose — than the never-infected.While the study is small, the Mount Sinai team concluded the findings suggest “only one dose of vaccine would not negatively impact” the previously vaccinated and offer a rationale considering policy changes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/france-recommends-1-shot-vaccine-for-people-who-had-virus-101613148635537.html
12-02-2021||World||Salaries in US recover despite nearly 9 million fewer people working||n a stark sign of the economic inequality that has marked the pandemic recession and recovery, Americans as a whole are now earning the same amount in wages and salaries that they did before the virus struck — even with nearly 9 million fewer people working.The turnaround in total wages underscores how disproportionately America's job losses have afflicted workers in lower-income occupations rather than in higher-paying industries, where employees have actually gained jobs as well as income since early last year.In February 2020, Americans earned $9.66 trillion in wages and salaries, at a seasonally adjusted annual rate, according to the Commerce Department data. By April, after the virus had flattened the U.S. economy, that figure had shrunk by 10%. It then gradually recovered before reaching $9.67 trillion in December, the latest period for which data is available.Those dollar figures include only wages and salaries that people earned from jobs. They don't include money that tens of millions of Americans have received from unemployment benefits or the Social Security and other aid that goes to many other households. The figures also don't include investment income.A separate measure tracked by the Labor Department shows the same result: Total labor income, excluding government workers, was 0.6% higher in January than it was a year earlier.That is "pretty remarkable," given the sharp drop in employment, said Michael Feroli, an economist at JPMorgan Chase.The figures document that the vanished earnings from 8.9 million Americans who have lost jobs to the pandemic remain less than the combined salaries of new hires and the pay raises that the 150 million Americans who have kept their jobs have received.The job cuts resulting from the pandemic recession have fallen heavily on lower-income workers across the service sector — from restaurants and hotels to retail stores and entertainment venues. By contrast, tens of millions of higher-income Americans, especially those able to work from home, have managed to keep or acquire jobs and continue to receive pay increases.“We’ve never seen anything like that before,” said Richard Deitz, a senior economist at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, referring to the concentration of job losses. “It’s a totally different kind of downturn than we’ve experienced in modern times.”Of the nearly 10 million jobs that have been eliminated by the pandemic, 40% have been in restaurants, bars, hotels, arts, and entertainment. Retailers have lost nearly 400,000 jobs and many low-paying health care workers, such as nursing home attendants and home health care aides, have also been laid off.On average, restaurant workers make just below $13 an hour, according to Labor Department data. Retail cashier pay is about the same. That’s less than half the economy-wide average of nearly $30 an hour.“It tells the story of an economy that has really tanked for the most vulnerable,” said Elise Gould, an economist at the liberal Economic Policy Institute. “It’s shocking how small a dent that has made in the aggregate.”The figures also underscore the unusually accelerated nature of this recession. As a whole, both the job losses that struck early last spring and the initial rebound in hiring that followed have happened much faster than they did in previous recessions and recoveries. After the Great Recession, for example, it took nearly 2 1/2 years for wages and salaries to regain their pre-recession levels.“This is one of the worst recessions we’ve ever had — compressed into one-tenth of the time that a normal recession would take,” said Ernie Tedeschi, policy economist at the investment bank Evercore ISI. "Hopefully, the recovery will continue to be compressed as well. That’s where the fears are and where the debate is.”One reason why the job losses have had relatively little impact on the nation's total pay is that so many of the affected employees worked part time. The average work week in the industry that includes hotels, restaurants and bars is just below 26 hours. That's the shortest such figure among 13 major industries tracked by the government. The next shortest is retail, at about 31 hours. The average for all industries is nearly 35 hours.The recovery in wages and salaries helps explain why some states haven’t suffered as sharp a drop in tax revenue as many had feared. That is especially true for states that rely on progressive taxes that fall more heavily on the rich. California, for example, said last month that it has a $15 billion budget surplus. Yet many cities are still struggling, and local transit agencies, such as New York City’s subway, have been hammered by the pandemic.The wage and salary data also helps explain the steady gains in the stock market, which have been led by high-tech companies whose products are being heavily purchased and used by higher-income Americans, such as Apple iPads, Peloton bikes, or Amazon’s online shopping.This week, the New York Fed released research that underscored how focused the job losses have been. For people making less than $30,000 a year, employment has fallen 14% as of December. For those earning more than $85,000, it has actually risen slightly. For those in-between, employment has fallen 4%.By contrast, job losses were much more widespread in the Great Recession of 2008-2009. Relatively higher-paying blue collar jobs in manufacturing and construction were hit worst: Construction lost 20% of its jobs, manufacturing 15%. Even a decade later, neither sector had fully recovered those jobs by the time the pandemic hit. Financial services lost 6% of its jobs in the previous recession, compared with 1% this time.Some companies have cut wages in this recession, but on the whole the many millions of Americans fortunate enough to keep their jobs have generally received pay raises at largely pre-recession rates. Some of those income gains likely reflect cost-of-living raises; the Commerce Department's wage and salary data isn't adjusted for inflation.Tedeschi calculates that the typical — or median — hourly pay for employed workers has risen about 3.5% in the past year, roughly the same pace as before the pandemic. That's a sign of what some economists refer to as the “sticky wages” concept: Some employers prefer to lay off workers while leaving pay largely unchanged for their remaining employees.Truman Bewley, a retired Yale University economist who wrote a book about the concept of sticky wages, said that most companies have a key core of workers they rely on through hard times and are reluctant to cut pay for them.And there’s another reason, Bewley said, why many companies cut jobs instead of pay. While researching his book, he said a factory manager told him why his company did so: “It gets the misery out the door.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/salaries-in-us-recover-despite-nearly-9-million-fewer-people-working-101613148549099.html
12-02-2021||World||US to revoke 'terrorist' status of Yemen's Houthis on Feb 16: Antony Blinken||US Secretary of State Antony Blinken on Friday announced that he will revoke, effective Feb. 16, designations of Yemen's Houthi movement as a foreign terrorist organisation and a specially designated global terrorist group.Blinken said in a statement that the United States would "closely monitor" Houthi activities and is "actively identifying" new sanctions targets, especially those responsible for attacks on commercial shipping in the Red Sea and missile strikes on Saudi Arabia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-blacklisting-of-yemen-s-houthis-to-be-lifted-on-feb-16-says-antony-blinken-101613148039521.html
12-02-2021||World||WHO says all hypotheses still open in probe into virus origins||All hypotheses are still open in the World Health Organization's search for the origins of Covid-19, WHO Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus told a briefing on Friday.A WHO-led mission in China said this week that it was not looking further into the question of whether the virus escaped from a lab, which it considered highly unlikely. The United States has said it will review the mission's findings."Some questions have been raised as to whether some hypotheses have been discarded. Having spoken with some members of the team, I wish to confirm that all hypotheses remain open and require further analysis and study," Tedros said."Some of that work may lie outside the remit and scope of this mission. We have always said that this mission would not find all the answers, but it has added important information that takes us closer to understanding the origins of the Covid-19 virus," he said.The mission has said its main hypotheses are that the virus originated in a bat, although there are several possible scenarios for how it passed to humans, possibly first by infecting another species of animal.The former administration of US President Donald Trump, which left office last month, said it believed the virus may have escaped from a lab in the Chinese city of Wuhan. China has strongly denied this, and says the Wuhan Institute of Virology was not studying related viruses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/who-says-all-hypotheses-still-open-in-probe-into-virus-origins-101613147004466.html
12-02-2021||World||UN rights body unanimously adopts Myanmar resolution||The top United Nations human rights body called on Myanmar on Friday to release Aung San Suu Kyi and other officials and to refrain from using violence on people protesting against the military coup.The 47-member Geneva forum adopted a resolution brought by Britain and the European Union (EU) unanimously without a vote, although Russia and China said afterwards that they "disassociated" themselves from the consensus.Myanmar's envoy said before the vote that the resolution was "not acceptable".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/un-rights-body-unanimously-adopts-myanmar-resolution-101613146749014.html
12-02-2021||World||Dr Anthony Fauci urges people to keep wearing masks as vaccines roll out||Dr Anthony Fauci says people will need to wear masks “for several, several months” to avoid the coronavirus as vaccinations are rolled out.The government's top infectious disease expert told ABC's “Good Morning America” on Friday by the time 75% to 80% of the population is vaccinated, “the level of virus in the community could be so low that you could start pulling back a bit on what are stringent public health measures.”But Fauci says any relaxing of safety measures needs to be done “prudently and gradually.”US government researchers have found that two masks are better than one in slowing the spread of the coronavirus, but health officials have stopped short of recommending everyone double up.Fauci says the US has contracted for 600 million vaccine doses, enough to vaccinate everyone with two doses. He says as spring turns into summer, everyone should be eligible to receive a vaccine.Fauci says, “As we go from April to May to June and then hopefully by July, we'll be at that point where we have enough vaccine for virtually everyone.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/dr-anthony-fauci-urges-people-to-keep-wearing-masks-as-vaccines-roll-out-101613146457618.html
12-02-2021||World||Donald Trump critics call for permanent Facebook ban of ex-president||Calling Donald Trump a "clear and present danger," a group of scholars and civil rights advocates on Friday urged Facebook to permanently ban the former US president from the platform.The group, which includes prominent longtime critics of the social media company, called on Facebook's oversight board to remove Trump from the omnipresent platform after the ex-president's account was frozen in the aftermath of the January 6 attack on the US Capitol.Facebook's oversight board has the final say on what is removed or allowed to remain on the world's biggest social network, but the group warned of the dangers of allowing Trump to return."Overturning the Trump ban is an invitation to violence, hate and disinformation that will cost lives and undermine democracy," the group said in a letter to the board. "Don't strike the match."They described Trump as a serial abuser of social media rules who poses a danger "to democracy and human life."Rival social media giant Twitter banned Trump after January 6 and on Wednesday announced the former president will not be permitted back on the network he used constantly, even if he runs for office again."Our policies are designed to ensure that people are not inciting violence," Twitter Chief Financial Officer Ned Segal said on CNBC.Conservatives on Capitol Hill and beyond say the moves by Facebook and Twitter to "deplatform" Trump demonstrate political bias and inhibit free speech.In the letter to Facebook's board, the group also lambasts the social media company for employing the board as a "fig leaf" to evade responsibility for tough decisions."More than ever, this demonstrates why we need independent, democratically accountable oversight," the group said.They also called for "laws that change financial incentives for big tech, heavy regulation and a reckoning with the algorithms that are laying waste to democratic society."Signers of the letter include Rashad Robinson, president of Color of Change; Anti-Defamation League head Jonathan Greenblatt; and Harvard professor Lawrence Tribe.Facebook and its Instagram platform suspended Trump after his supporters stormed the US Capitol on January 6, an attack on the seat of democracy that led to Trump's second impeachment by lawmakers.Members of Facebook's oversight board come from various countries and include jurists, human rights activists, journalists, a Nobel peace laureate and a former Danish prime minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-critics-call-for-permanent-facebook-ban-of-expresident-101613145856258.html
12-02-2021||World||UK variant of Covid-19 accounts for 18% of infections in Italy||The highly contagious variant of the Covid-19 virus first found in Britain accounts for some 17.8% of all new infections in Italy, with the infection rate ticking up in many parts of the country, the health ministry said on Friday.The estimated Covid-19 reproduction "R" number has risen to 0.95 from 0.84 a week ago, the health ministry said, as officials warned that new restrictions are likely to be announced later in the day for a number of regions.British scientists have said the variant, first identified in southeast England at the end of last year, is up to 70% more contagious than other variants, with a mortality risk around 30% higher."It is probably destined to become the prevalent one (in Italy) in the coming months," Italy's National Institute of Health said in a statement on Friday.Italy has registered 92,729 deaths linked to Covid-19 since its outbreak emerged in February last year, the second-highest toll in Europe after Britain and the seventh-highest in the world. The country has reported 2.68 million cases to date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-variant-of-covid-19-accounts-for-18-of-infections-in-italy-101613144580029.html
12-02-2021||World||BBC condemns China's removal of World Service in Hong Kong||The BBC said on Friday it condemned a decision by the Chinese authorities to take its World Service off air in Hong Kong, adding that access to accurate and impartial news is a fundamental human right.It said it would make every effort to continue making its news available to people."We stand by our journalism and totally reject accusations of inaccuracy and ideological bias," it said in a statement. "Our journalists have reported stories in mainland China and Hong Kong truthfully and fairly, as they do everywhere in the world."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/bbc-condemns-china-s-removal-of-world-service-in-hong-kong-101613143946954.html
12-02-2021||World||Biden administration launches review aimed at closing Guantanamo prison||The Biden administration has launched a formal review of the future of the US military prison at Guantanamo Bay in Cuba, reviving the Obama-era goal of closing the controversial facility, a White House official said on Friday.Aides involved in internal discussions are considering an executive action to be signed by President Joe Biden in coming weeks or months, two people familiar with the matter told Reuters, signaling a new effort to remove what human rights advocates have called a stain on America’s global image.Such an initiative, however, is unlikely to bring down the curtain anytime soon on the high-security prison located at the Guantanamo Naval Station, due largely to the steep political and legal obstacles that the new administration will face.Set up to house foreign suspects following the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks on New York and Washington, the offshore jail came to symbolise the excesses of the US “war on terror” because of harsh interrogation methods that critics say amounted to torture."We are undertaking an NSC process to assess the current state of play that the Biden administration has inherited from the previous administration, in line with our broader goal of closing Guantanamo," National Security Council (NSC) spokeswoman Emily Horne told Reuters."The NSC will work closely with the Departments of Defense, State, and Justice to make progress toward closing the GTMO facility, and also in close consultation with Congress," she added.The immediate impact of a new approach could be to reinstate, in some form, the Guantanamo closure policy of Biden’s old boss, former President Barack Obama, which was reversed by Donald Trump as soon as he took office in 2017.Trump kept the prison open during his four years in the White House - though he never loaded it up with “bad dudes,” as he once vowed. Now, 40 prisoners remain, most held for nearly two decades without being charged or tried.Biden’s campaign said during the 2020 race that he continued to support closing the detention center but did not say how he would do it.It is also unclear how specific Biden’s coming executive action might be about his plans for the prison, which holds suspects in the Sept. 11 attacks among its detainee population.Filing out Biden's Guantanamo TeamSignaling that the process is still at an early stage, Horne said "a number of key policy roles still need to be filled within the interagency, including confirming sub-Cabinet policy roles at the Defense, State, and Justice Departments.""There will be a robust interagency process to move forward on this but we need to have the right people seated to do this important work," she said.Biden, who was Obama’s vice president, can expect to face many of the same political, legal and diplomatic hurdles that frustrated his former boss.Former President George W. Bush opened the prison and its population grew to a peak of about 800 inmates before it started to shrink. Obama whittled down the number further but his effort to close the prison was stymied largely by Republican opposition in Congress.The federal government is still barred by law from transferring any inmates to prisons on the US mainland. Even with his own Democratic party now controlling Congress, their majorities are so slim that Biden would face a tough challenge securing legislative changes because some Democrats might also oppose them.A revived Guantanamo strategy is expected to focus initially on further decreasing the number of prisoners by repatriating them or finding other countries to accept them, according to the people familiar with the matter.This could also mean re-establishing a State Department post of Guantanamo closure envoy, created by Obama but eliminated by Trump, to resume negotiations with other governments on detainee transfers, the sources said.In addition, the Pentagon could restart a parole-style review process of prisoners’ cases to determine whether they still posed a threat, the sources said.Still, any Guantanamo-closing plan could initially be hampered by the coronavirus pandemic, which would make moving prisoners unlikely for now.The Biden administration has not made Guantanamo one of its top early priorities as it grapples with the pandemic and its economic fallout at home and global challenges such as China, Russia, Iran and Myanmar. In contrast, Obama made the closing of Guantanamo one of his first executive orders in 2009 but failed to achieve that goal by the end of his second term.Shutting the facility has been a longtime demand of progressive Democrats whose support helped Biden win the White House in November.The prison’s continued existence, critics say, is a reminder to the world of harsh detention practices that opened the United States to accusations of torture.More than a hundred human rights organizations signed a Feb. 2 letter to Biden calling on him to close the prison and end indefinite detention of terrorism suspects held there, saying it was long past time for “a meaningful reckoning with the full scope of damage that the post-9/11 approach has caused.”Even Trump once expressed dismay over the hundreds of millions of dollars a year it costs US taxpayers to keep the prison open.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-administration-launches-review-aimed-at-closing-guantanamo-prison-101613144225819.html
12-02-2021||World||NY Governor Andrew Cuomo’s aide says data on Covid death was withheld||New York Governor Andrew Cuomo’s top aide told lawmakers she withheld nursing homes’ Covid-19 death toll for fear it would spark a federal investigation, according to reports in the New York Post and New York Times.Secretary to the Governor Melissa DeRosa told Democratic leaders that the state rebuffed an August legislative request for the number amid federal demands for a similar accounting, the Post report said.“We were in a position where we weren’t sure if what we were going to give to the Department of Justice, or what we give to you guys, and what we start saying, was going to be used against us and we weren’t sure if there was going to be an investigation,” DeRosa told lawmakers, according to a partial transcript published by the Times.“Basically, we froze,” DeRosa told the lawmakers, according to the Post report.The report was the latest blow to Cuomo, who has tried to deflect a barrage of criticism that his policies increased Covid-19 related deaths among nursing-home residents. On Feb. 3, a New York Supreme Court judge ordered the state Health Department to release data that revealed a larger increase in the number of deaths among patients in nursing homes than previously thought.State Attorney General Letitia James has also accused the Cuomo administration of undercounting Covid-19 deaths in nursing homes by as much as 50%, and of obscuring data available to assess the risk to patients.In a statement Friday, DeRosa tried to clarify her remarks to Democratic legislators. She said the administration prioritized answering queries about the figures from the Trump administration.“I was explaining that when we received the Department of Justice inquiry, we needed to temporarily set aside the Legislature’s request to deal with the federal request first,” she said in an emailed statement. “We were comprehensive and transparent in our responses to the DOJ, and then had to immediately focus our resources on the second wave and vaccine rollout.”She said the state couldn’t fulfill the legislators request for more data “as quickly as anyone would have liked. But we are committed to being better partners going forward.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/ny-governor-andrew-cuomo-s-aide-says-data-on-covid-death-was-withheld-101613143128486.html
12-02-2021||World||Joe Biden views Valentine's Day decorations on White House lawn||First lady Jill Biden had installed before dawn Friday special Valentine’s Day artwork on the north lawn of the White House: giant pink, white and red hearts that resemble the popular candy.President Joe Biden stepped out with his wife early on Friday morning to inspect the colorful artwork. The huge hearts have single words printed on them such as unity, kindness, healing, compassion, love and courage. One of the hearts was signed, “Love, Jill."The president told reporters that Valentine's Day is the first lady's “favorite day.” Jill Biden said people are feeling “a little down” with the pandemic so she just wanted to do something to bring “a little joy. A little hope.”Her office said in a statement: “As you may know, the first lady is known for her sense of humor, love of surprises, and celebrating traditions, especially with her family. Valentine’s Day has always been one of her favorite holidays."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-views-valentine-s-day-decorations-on-white-house-lawn-101613140465128.html
12-02-2021||World||'Unbelievable' tornado tears through Turkey injuring 16||A tornado ripped through a port area in Turkey's western coastal province of Izmir overnight, flinging vehicles into the air, damaging buildings, toppling a crane and leaving 16 people injured, Turkish officials said on Friday.A rarity in Turkey, the tornado capsized boats, uprooted trees and sent debris from buildings across parts of the Aegean tourist resort of Cesme, Ihlas news agency drone footage showed."In the space of just 20 seconds there was a great misfortune. We see a very sad picture. Many roofs have been blown off, vehicles lifted up and smashed to the ground. It's unbelievable," Izmir Mayor Tunc Soyer told reporters as he surveyed the damage."We also thought of these as disasters in Far East countries or Latin America, but it's clear that climate change means these natural disasters are not far from us," he added.The 16 injured people were taken to hospital, including nine hurt when a crane fell on a workers at a construction site in the port area of Alacati, deputy interior minister Ismail Catakli said on Twitter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/unbelievable-tornado-tears-through-turkey-injuring-16-101613139945866.html
12-02-2021||World||UK economy records worst year in three centuries||The UK economy has suffered its biggest slump in more than three centuries last year, with GDP falling by nearly 10 per cent over the course of 2020.According to CNN, this means that the Covid-19 pandemic has effectively wiped out all growth in the United Kingdom over the last seven years, returning the economy close to the size it was in 2013.The 9.9 per cent slump in the UK GDP was "less severe than expected" but it surpassed the 9.7 per cent slump experienced during the Great Depression in 1921, "making it the worst annual drop since 1709", according to a Bank of England database. That was when Europe's harshest winter in 500 years caused widespread death and destruction."This time it's a pandemic to blame whereas back then, it was a Great Frost, which saw ice in the North Sea, and the War of Spanish Succession ... which was doing the damage," wrote Societe Generale strategist Kit Juckes in a research note on Friday as quoted by CNN.According to the Office for National Statistics, there were some signs of improvement in the final months of 2020, with GDP estimated to have increased by 1 per cent in the fourth quarter, following record growth in the third quarter.But there were big swings in output between October and December, largely tracking the level of restrictions imposed to contain the coronavirus, CNN reported.The UK suffered one of "the worst recessions" among major economies last year.Germany, for example, held up better in the pandemic than it did during the global financial crisis. Provisional estimates suggest Europe's biggest economy contracted by 5 per cent last year. EU GDP, meanwhile, is expected to have shrunk 6.4 per cent, according to Eurostat."Today's figures show that the economy has experienced a serious shock as a result of the pandemic, which has been felt by countries around the world," UK Finance Minister Rishi Sunak said in a statement as quoted by CNN."While there are some positive signs of the economy's resilience over the winter, we know that the current lockdown continues to have a significant impact on many people and businesses," it added.The new national lockdown, which was imposed on January 5 in the country, is expected to hit the economy hard in the first quarter of 2021, reversing the return to growth in the fourth quarter of 2020."It seems that a double dip [recession] was merely delayed rather than avoided outright," Sam Miley, an economist at the London-based Centre for Economics and Business Research said in a note on Friday.Disruption to EU-UK trade following the end of the Brexit transition period on December 31 is "also weighing on activity."CNN further reported that British exporters have struggled to get their products into Europe due to border delays and glitches in new customs systems. Companies selling fresh produce, such as live shellfish and meat, have in some cases had to discard their products as a result. Even once the dust settles, new trading arrangements are expected to add additional costs to UK companies, which rely on Europe for a large portion of their imports and exports.According to a survey published on Thursday by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), the coronavirus pandemic has left more than a quarter of British adults financially vulnerable, with too much debt or not enough savings to cope with a "negative life event" such as redundancy, loss of working hours, or ill health.Citing the survey, the news outlet reported that nearly 40 per cent of British adults suffered financially as a consequence of the pandemic, with younger workers, Black people and the self-employed among the hardest hit.According to Bank of England chief economist Andy Haldane, who pointed to high savings rates among UK households in an opinion piece published in a British media outlet on Thursday, said that half of adults in the FCA survey said the pandemic had not disturbed their finances, while some 15 per cent of adults were financially better off. That could lay the foundation for a savings-led boost to demand."The rapid rollout of the vaccination programme across the UK means a decisive corner has been turned in the battle against Covid," he said as reported by CNN quoting The Daily Mail."A decisive corner is about to be turned for the economy too, with enormous amounts of pent-up financial energy waiting to be released, like a coiled spring," he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-economy-records-worst-year-in-three-centuries-101613138986614.html
12-02-2021||World||Mekong River at 'worrying' low level amid calls for more Chinese dam data||Water levels in the Mekong River have fallen to a "worrying level" in part due to outflow restrictions from Chinese hydropower dams upstream, the Mekong River Commission (MRC) said on Friday, calling on Beijing to share all of its water data.The vital waterway has turned blue along the Thai-Laos border, from its usual murky brown colour - signaling shallow water and low levels of nutrition-rich sediment - partially from outflow restrictions from the Jinghong dam in China's Yunnan province, the inter-governmental MRC said.Friday's statement said low rainfall and dams on the Lower Mekong and tributaries also contributed to the drop in levels."There have been sudden rises and falls in water levels immediately downstream of Jinghong and further down to Vientiane," said Winai Wongpimool, director of the MRC Secretariat's Technical Support Division.Such fluctuations affect fish migration, agriculture and transportation that nearly 70 million people rely on for their livelihoods and food security."To help the Lower Mekong countries manage risks more effectively, we call on China and the Lower Mekong countries themselves to share their water release plans with us,” Winai said.The MRC said normal conditions may be restored if large volumes of water are released from Chinese dams' reservoirs.China's Ministry of Foreign Affairs disputed the MRC's findings, adding that there are many causes of downstream drought.China last year pledged to share data from it dams with MRC member countries Laos, Thailand, Cambodia and Vietnam.In January, Beijing notified neighbours that its dams were filling reservoirs until Jan. 25. [L4N2JH1KS]Outflow levels at Jinghong Dam were 785 cubic metres per second in early-January before rising to 1,400 cubic metres per second in mid-January, the MRC said.However, levels dropped again in February and were 800 cubic metres per second as of Thursday, the MRC said. The statement did not mention any recent notification from Beijing.China said the dam's outflow has been consistently more than 1,000 cubic meters per second since the end of January, a level it says is nearly twice the natural flow of the river. It called on the MRC "to avoid causing public misunderstanding".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/mekong-river-at-worrying-low-level-amid-calls-for-more-chinese-dam-data-101613137861375.html
12-02-2021||World||Joe Biden administration to allow 25,000 asylum-seekers into US||The Biden administration on Friday announced plans for tens of thousands of asylum-seekers waiting in Mexico for their next immigration court hearings to be allowed into the United States while their cases proceed.The first of an estimated 25,000 asylum-seekers in Mexico with active cases will be allowed in the United States on February 19, authorities said. They plan to start slowly with two border crossings each processing up to 300 people a day and a third crossing taking fewer. Administration officials declined to name them out of fear they may encourage a rush of people to those locations.The move is a major step toward dismantling one of former President Donald Trump's most consequential policies to deter asylum-seekers from coming to the US. About 70,000 asylum-seekers were enrolled in “ Remain in Mexico,” officially called “Migrant Protection Protocols,” since it was introduced in January 2019.On Biden's first day in office, the Homeland Security Department suspended the policy for new arrivals. Since then, some asylum-seekers picked up at the border have been released in the US with notices to appear in court.Biden is quickly making good on a campaign promise to end the policy, which the Trump administration said was critical to reversing a surge of asylum-seekers that peaked in 2019. But the policy also exposed people to violence in Mexican border cities and made it extremely difficult for them to find lawyers and communicate with courts about their cases.“As President Biden has made clear, the US government is committed to rebuilding a safe, orderly, and humane immigration system,” said Homeland Security Secretary Alejandro Mayorkas. “This latest action is another step in our commitment to reform immigration policies that do not align with our nation’s values.”Homeland Security said the move “should not be interpreted as an opening for people to migrate irregularly to the United States.” Administration officials have said repeatedly that the vast majority of people who cross the border illegally are quickly expelled under a public health order in place since the pandemic struck in March, but releases of some asylum-seeking families in Texas and California has worked against that messaging.White House press secretary Jen Psaki said Thursday that she was concerned that limited releases in the US may encourage others to cross illegally because “we don’t want people to put themselves in danger at a time where it is not the right time to come, because we have not had time to put in place a humane and moral system and process.”Hearings for people enrolled in “Remain in Mexico” have been suspended since June due to the pandemic. Getting word out on when to report to the border for release in the United States may prove a daunting job.Homeland Security said it would soon announce a “virtual registration process” available online and by phone for people to learn where and when they should report. It urged asylum-seekers not to report to the border unless instructed.Asylum-seekers will be tested for Covid-19 before entering the US.The announcement provides no relief to people whose cases were dismissed or denied, though administration officials did not rule out additional measures. Advocates argue that communication problems, including lack of working addresses in Mexico, caused some to miss hearings and lose their cases as a result.More people are getting stopped crossing the border illegally since Biden took office.Raul Ortiz, deputy chief of the Border Patrol, said Tuesday that more than 3,000 people had been stopped crossing the border illegally in each of the previous 10 days, compared to a daily average of 2,426 in January.About 50 to 80 adults and children have been arriving daily since January 27 at Catholic Charities of the Rio Grande Valley in Texas, which temporarily houses people released by the Border Patrol, said Sister Norma Pimentel, the group’s executive director. The charity tests for Covid-19 and sends anyone who tests positive to a hotel for isolation.Jewish Family Service of San Diego housed 191 asylum-seekers the first 10 days of February after the were released by U.S authorities, up from 144 in January and 54 in December, said Eitan Peled, the group’s border services advocate. They are quarantined in hotels for 10 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-administration-to-allow-25-000-asylum-seekers-into-us-101613137990588.html
12-02-2021||World||Immigration to Canada falls by half on pandemic disruptions||Immigration into Canada fell by almost half last year, hitting its lowest level in more than two decades as the Covid-19 pandemic disrupted travel across borders.Final government data released Thursday show Canada added 184,370 permanent residents in 2020, down from 341,175 a year earlier. That appears to be the lowest intake since the late 1990s, according to Statistics Canada data. It’s also well short of the 341,000 newcomers Prime Minister Justin Trudeau’s government had targeted in 2020.It’s a sharp reversal for a country that has relied on rapid immigration growth to drive its economy in recent years. A steep decline in flows could have implications for everything from the housing market to demand for services in urban centers.“The pandemic has left a significant mark on what was -- going into this year -- one of Canada’s engines of growth,” Andrew Agopsowicz, an economist at Royal Bank of Canada, said by email.The numbers aren’t a surprise, though, given borders have been closed to non-essential travel since March. Data for December also showed permanent residents were down by about 50% from a year earlier, suggesting the weak trend persists.Immigration Minister Marco Mendicino in October announced he’ll try to make up the losses in 2020 by ramping up targets over the next three years, in part by converting more temporary residents like foreign workers and international students to permanent residency. The goal is to attract 401,000 new permanent residents in 2021.Study permits have been showing a similar trend to immigration. At the end of last year, there were 530,540 student permit holders in Canada, down from 638,960 at the end of 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/immigration-to-canada-falls-by-half-on-pandemic-disruptions-101613137257734.html
12-02-2021||World||Russia ready for split with EU if sanctions over Navalny arrest imposed||Russia is prepared for a split with the European Union if the EU imposes new crippling sanctions amid a dispute over the treatment of opposition leader Alexei Navalny, the nation's top diplomat warned Friday.In response to a question about Moscow's willingness to rupture links with the EU, Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov said in televised remarks that Russia doesn't want to be isolated but must increase its self-sufficiency to face potential EU sanctions.“We don’t want to be isolated from international life, but we must be ready for that," Lavrov said. “If you want peace, you must prepare for war.”Asked if Russia is heading toward a split with the European Union, Lavrov replied, “We proceed from the assumption that we are ready for that.”He emphasized the importance of economic ties with the 27 EU nations, adding that Russia would continue engaging in mutually beneficial cooperation. At the same time, Lavrov said, Russia must prepare for the worst and increasingly rely on its own resources."We must achieve that in the economic sphere, if we see again, as we have felt more than once, that sanctions imposed in some areas create risks to our economy, including in the most sensitive spheres, such as supplies of parts and components," the Russian foreign minister added.Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov emphasized that Russia wants to maintain normal ties with the EU but needs to prepare for the worst, if the bloc takes hostile actions.“If we face a destructive course that will hurt our infrastructure, our interests, Russia must be ready in advance for such unfriendly steps,” Peskov said during a call with reporters when asked about Lavrov's comment. “We must be self-reliant. We must ensure our security in the most sensitive strategic areas and be prepared to replace everything we could be deprived of with national infrastructure in case madness prevails and such unfriendly actions take place.”European Commission spokesman Peter Stano said Friday the EU welcomes “mutually beneficial cooperation whenever the other side is ready for such a cooperation and for such a dialogue,” adding that Russia has “indicated that they are not really willing to go in this direction.”German Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Andrea Sasse described Lavrov's comments as “really disconcerting and completely incomprehensible to us.” She told reporters in Berlin that Foreign Minister Heiko Maas had made Germany’s grievances with Russia clear but also emphasized that ”we are interested in cooperation with Russia.”Russia-EU relations have sunk to new lows over Navalny's arrest and imprisonment. The most prominent political foe of Russian President Vladimir Putin was arrested Jan. 17 upon his return from Germany, where he spent five months recuperating from the nerve agent poisoning he blamed on the Kremlin. Russian authorities have denied the allegations.Last week, a court in Moscow sent Navalny to prison for two years and eight months for violating terms of his probation while recuperating in Germany. The probation stemmed from a 2014 embezzlement conviction that Navalny has rejected as fabricated and the European Court of Human Rights has ruled to be unlawful.Navalny was back in court Friday on a charge of defaming a World War II veteran who was featured in a video last year advertising constitutional amendments that allowed an extension of Putin's rule. Navalny called the people in the video “corrupt stooges,” “people without conscience” and “traitors.” He rejected the libel charges as part of Kremlin efforts to disparage him and could face a fine or community service, if convicted.European Union foreign policy chief Josep Borrell said after visiting Russia last week that the 27-nation bloc must take a firm stance in its relations with Russia and ponder new sanctions in the wake of Navalny’s prison sentence. While Borrell was meeting with Lavrov, Moscow announced the expulsion of diplomats from Germany, Poland and Sweden for attending protests in support of Navalny.The three EU countries responded in kind Monday, each expelling a Russian diplomat.Borrell has said he plans to submit proposals for possible actions against Russia when he chairs the next meeting of the bloc’s foreign ministers on Feb. 22.Navalny's arrest triggered a wave of protests across Russia that drew tens of thousands of people to the streets in the largest show of discontent in years. Authorities responded with a sweeping crackdown, detaining about 11,000 people across Russia. Many protesters were fined or given jail sentences ranging from seven to 15 days.The United States and the European Union have urged Russia to release Navalny and to end the crackdown on protests. The Kremlin has accused them of meddling in Russia’s internal affairs and said it would not listen to Western criticism of Navalny’s sentencing and police actions against his supporters.Lavrov accused the West of pursuing the “aggressive containment of Russia” to punish the country for its independent foreign policy.“The sanctions wouldn't bring any result. They wouldn't change our course for defending our national interests,” Lavrov said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/russia-ready-to-sever-ties-if-eu-sanctions-over-navalny-arrest-101613135549828.html
12-02-2021||World||Draft cybersecurity law in Myanmar adds to protests over coup||A draft cybersecurity law due to be implemented in Myanmar has raised protests that it will be used to quash dissent rather than protect privacy.Human rights advocates issued statements Friday urging the country’s military leaders to drop the plan and end internet disruptions that have intensified since a February 1 coup.The draft law shows the military’s intent to “permanently undermine internet freedom in the country,” said Matthew Bugher, head of the Asia program for the group Article 19, which issued a statement condemning the plan along with the Open Net Association and the International Commission of Jurists.Internet service providers and others were given until Monday, February 15, to respond to the proposed law.“It is telling that controlling cyberspace is one of the top priorities of the Myanmar military, which seized power through an illegitimate coup d’etat only last week,” said Sam Zarifi, the International Commission of Jurists' secretary general.“The military is used to having total power in Myanmar, but this time they have to face a population that has access to information and can communicate internally and externally,” he said.The military's seizure of power and arrest of national leader Aung San Suu Kyi and other members of her National League for Democracy party have sparked massive peaceful protests across the country, despite efforts by authorities to enforce order by disrupting internet services.That has put internet service providers and other telecommunications companies in a bind.Jeff Paine, managing director of the Asia Internet Coalition, a group of leading global internet companies including Facebook and Google, said the bill would give the military “unprecedented power to censor citizens and violate their privacy, contravening democratic norms and fundamental rights guaranteed under international law."He urged coup leaders to consider “potentially devastating" impacts on the Myanmar economy and people.Norway's Telenor, a major mobile service provider, said it was facing “several dilemmas."“Access to telecom services is essential for people to exercise their basic right to freedom of opinion and expression, and to gain information. These services are also critical in the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, and for economic opportunities," the company said in a statement posted on a section of its website devoted to the Myanmar crisis.“When following authority orders in these irregular times, we know it has negative impact on human rights in Myanmar. We are working to minimize this impact," it said.The company said it was assessing each government order according to its legality, impact on human rights, necessity and transparency. It listed five active directives from the government since Feb. 1 to block IP addresses and said it was urging authorities to maintain an open internet.But it also noted it needed to consider the safety of its own employees.A group of 158 Myanmar nongovernmental organizations also has released a statement protesting the draft law.Before the coup, the government had been working on a master plan for internet management and cybersecurity.Among other requirements, opponents of the draft law said it calls for banning online anonymity, removing content the government deems unacceptable and punishing violations with criminal penalties.The law demands the elimination of online comments considered to be misinformation or disinformation, that might cause “hate" or disrupt stability, and any comment that might violate any existing law.Its provisions call for a sentence of up to three years and/or a fine for any person convicted of creating “misinformation” and “disinformation” with the intent of causing public panic, loss of trust or social division in cyberspace.The law also would require internet service providers to keep usernames, IP addresses and other personal data for up to three years. The data has to be kept in a place designated by the government.The internet service providers could face maximum prison sentences of three years and a fine for failing to comply with the law's broad and vague provisions.“The proposal smacks of a legislative attempt to extend the powers the military had taken in an unlawful, anti-democratic coup,” said Kyung Sin Park, executive director of the Open Net Association, whose founders spearheaded a successful constitutional challenge against a similar law in South Korea in 2012.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/draft-cybersecurity-law-in-myanmar-adds-to-protests-over-coup-101613133740965.html
12-02-2021||World||'World is watching', UN rights body warns Myanmar after coup||The United Nations demanded Friday that Myanmar's military return power to civilian control and refrain from violence against protesters, warning that abuses would not go unnoticed.It also voiced concern over sanctions being imposed following the February 1 coup, stressing they needed to be "carefully targeted" to avoid harming vulnerable people."The world is watching," the UN's deputy rights chief Nada al-Nashif told the Human Rights Council in Geneva.The UN's top rights body was holding a relatively rare special session urgently requested earlier this week by Britain and the European Union to address the coup and its aftermath.UN officials and diplomats alike voiced alarm at the assault on democracy in the country and violence against protesters.Al-Nashif decried the detention of the Myanmar's elected civilian leaders, including Aung San Suu Kyi and President U Win Myint, and of more than 350 others, including officials, activists, journalists, monks and students.In addition, she lamented, "draconian orders have been issued this week to prevent peaceful assembly and free expression".'Unacceptable'"Let us be clear: the indiscriminate use of lethal or less-than-lethal weapons against peaceful protesters is unacceptable," said al-Nashif.Min Aung Hlaing, the head of Myanmar's army, known as Tatmadaw, has justified his coup by alleging widespread voter fraud during November's election.And Myanmar's ambassador to the UN in Geneva, Myint Thu, insisted to the council Friday that "in light of the post-election irregularities... Tatmadaw was compelled to take the state responsibilities".He said the country was "undergoing extremely complex challenges", and looked "forward to receiving better understanding... and constructive engagement and cooperation from the international community".Traditional allies of Myanmar's military, including Russia and China, slammed Friday's session as interference in "Myanmar's internal affairs"."Attempts to whip up hype around the situation in Myanmar need to cease," Russia's ambassador Gennady Gatilov told the council.However, most diplomats taking part in the mainly virtual session spoke out strongly against the coup, mass detentions and use of force against some protesters."This unacceptable and illegitimate seizure of power abruptly turned back the clock of history in Myanmar," Portugal's ambassador Rui Macieira said. Speaking on behalf of the EU, he added: "The will of the people must be restored."Britain's Asia minister Nigel Adams told the council: "The state of emergency and all restrictions on the rights and freedoms of people in Myanmar must be lifted immediately."The United States, which only re-engaged with the council this week after former president Donald Trump withdrew in 2018, also harshly condemned the coup.US diplomat Mark Cassayre said all those "unjustly detained" should be released, and called for "accountability for those responsible for the coup, including through targeted sanctions".President Joe Biden announced this week that his administration was cutting off the military's access to $1 billion in funds, with sanctions targeting Min Aung Hlaing and other top generals.'Complicit' Al-Nashif voiced concern over sanctions imposed in the wake of the coup."Any sanctions under consideration should be carefully targeted against specific individuals who are credibly alleged to have violated the people's rights," she said."Leaders of this coup are an appropriate focus of such actions," she said, adding that "it is of critical importance that no harm should be inflicted on the most vulnerable people in the country".The UN special rapporteur for Myanmar, Thomas Andrews, also called for targeted sanctions, and stressed that any aid should go directly to Myanmar's civil society instead of being filtered through the junta.And he called on private companies to refrain from doing business with the military "to avoid the risk of being complicit in gross human rights abuses".During Friday's special session -- the 29th held in the council's 15-year history -- diplomats will consider a draft resolution which demands the immediate release of Suu Kyi and the "restoration of the democratically-elected government".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/world-is-watching-un-rights-body-warns-myanmar-after-coup-101613135192671.html
12-02-2021||World||At least 400,000 Yemeni children under 5 could die of starvation this year : UN||At least 400,000 Yemeni children under 5 could die of starvation this year without urgent intervention amid soaring rates of severe malnutrition driven by war and the coronavirus pandemic, four UN agencies said on Friday.The warnings come nearly six years after the outbreak of war that rendered 80% of the population reliant on humanitarian aid.In a report published on Friday, the agencies projected a 22% increase in severe acute malnutrition among children under 5 in Yemen, compared to 2020.Severe acute malnutrition means there is a risk of death from lack of food. Aden, Hodeidah, Taiz and Sanaa are among the worst-hit areas, the report said."These numbers are yet another cry for help from Yemen where each malnourished child also means a family struggling to survive," World Food Program (WFP) Executive Director David Beasley said in a joint statement with the Food and Agriculture Organisation(FAO), UNICEF and the World Health Organisation (WHO).Another 2.3 million under 5s are expected to suffer acute malnutrition in 2021. Acute malnutrition among young children and mothers in Yemen has increased with each year of the conflict, they said, driven by the high rates of disease and rising rates of food insecurity.Around 1.2 million pregnant or breastfeeding women are projected to be acutely malnourished this year.Famine has never been officially declared in Yemen. The UN says the country is the world's largest humanitarian crisis.Along with conflict, economic decline and the pandemic, a shortfall of donations last year is also contributing to the worsening humanitarian crisis.Nutrition and other services that keep millions from starvation and disease are gradually closing across Yemen amid the acute funding shortage.The agencies said they had only received $1.9 billion of the $3.4 billion required for the country's humanitarian response. Programmes have started to close and scale down.A Saudi-led coalition intervened in Yemen in March 2015 to restore the Yemeni government ousted from power in the capital Sanaa by the Houthi movement in late 2014. The Houthis say they are fighting corruption.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/at-least-400-000-yemeni-children-under-5-could-die-of-starvation-this-year-un-101613133157654.html
12-02-2021||World||New Year blessings from Mars as China releases footage from space probe||China's space agency released two videos providing a close-up glimpse of Mars on Friday, captured as its Tianwen-1 probe entered the red planet's orbit, saying the spacecraft was sending a Lunar New Year greeting to Earth.After a 6-1/2 month journey through space, the Tianwen-1 on Wednesday slowed to a speed at which it could be captured by the pull of Mars' gravity and became the second spacecraft to reach the planet this month, with a US probe set to arrive and immediately attempt a landing next week.The two clips, lasting just under a minute, were the first released by the China National Space Administration of the probe entering orbit."The Tianwen-1's New Year blessings came through from far-away Mars," the CNSA said on Friday, the first day of the Lunar New Year.The footage, shot from cameras attached to the uncrewed craft, shows it vibrating as its solar-powered thrusters are switched on to slow it down, with the spherical outline of Mars and even craters on the planet's surface seen in the background as the probe hurtles past."The solar panels, directional antenna, Martian atmosphere and surface topography are clearly visible," the CNSA said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/new-year-blessings-from-mars-as-china-releases-footage-from-space-probe-101613132239311.html
12-02-2021||World||Donald Trump 'at 74 and overweight' was 'sicker than acknowledged' with Covid-19||Former US President Donald Trump was "sicker than publicly acknowledged" with Covid-19 when he tested positive for the disease in October last year.According to a report from The New York Times (NYT), Trump experienced extremely depressed blood oxygen levels at one point and a lung problem associated with pneumonia caused by the coronavirus, according to four people familiar with his condition. It was also reported that his condition "was so poor" before he was taken to Walter Reed National Military Centre from the White House officials believing that "he may need to be put on a ventilator".The people familiar with the former President's health said that "he was found to have lung infiltrates, which occur when the lungs are inflamed and contain substances such as fluid or bacteria. Their presence, especially when a patient is exhibiting other symptoms, can be a sign of an acute case of the disease. They can be easily spotted on an X-ray or scan when parts of the lungs appear opaque, or white."His blood oxygen level "was cause for extreme concern, dipping into the 80s", according to the people familiar with his evaluation. The disease is considered severe when the blood oxygen level falls to the low 90s."Trump had trouble breathing and a fever on October 2, the day he was taken to the hospital, and the types of treatment he received indicated that his condition was serious," NYT reported.Trump's medical team at Walter Reed downplayed the severity of the situation when he was at the hospital."At 74 and overweight, he was at risk for severe disease and was prescribed an aggressive course of treatments. He left the hospital after three days in which he at one point staged a brief ride in his armoured sport-utility vehicle to wave at the crowd of supporters outside the building," NYT reported further.Trump's physician, Dr Sean Conley, "repeatedly downplayed" concerns about the former President's condition during his illness. He also told reporters that while Mr. Trump's oxygen level had dropped to 93 percent, it had never dropped to the "low 80s."Trump had trouble breathing at the White House and was twice given oxygen before being taken to Walter Reed.While still at the White House, Trump received a drug developed by the biotechnology firm Regeneron Pharmaceuticals. The antibody cocktail -- not widely available at the time -- helps people infected with the virus "fight it off".After Trump was hospitalised, he began a regimen for a steroid, dexamethasone, which is usually recommended only for Covid-19 patients who have severe or critical forms of the disease -- often for those who need mechanical ventilation. He received a five-day course of the antiviral drug remdesivir. Medical experts at the time believed that his medication course was a clear signal of significant issues related to his lungs, as reported by The New York Times.On Sunday, October 4, Conley acknowledged that he had given a 'rosy version' of the former President's condition."I was trying to reflect the upbeat attitude that the team, the president, his course of illness has had," he said as quoted by NYT. "I didn't want to give any information that might steer the course of illness in another direction, and in doing so, you know, it came off that we were trying to hide something, which wasn't necessarily true."Trump appeared to still be struggling with the disease when he returned to the White House, where he stationed himself on a balcony in a "choreographed scene", tearing his mask off and saluting his helicopter.Doctors at the time noted how Trump used his neck muscles to help him breathe in those moments, a classic sign that someone's lungs are not taking in enough oxygen.CNN reported that as for the former first lady Melania Trump's condition, someone familiar with her treatment said she never took the then-experimental Regeneron antibody therapy used to treat her husband.This person said it took "a very, very long time" for her to get better, but she insisted on letting the virus run its course and treated her symptoms with holistic medicines, such as herbal teas, and "took nothing stronger than over-the-counter pain relievers."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-was-sicker-than-acknowledged-with-covid19-101613130691646.html
12-02-2021||World||Twitter to add more labels identifying world leader and government accounts||Twitter Inc said on Thursday it will next week add labels to identify more state-affiliated accounts, including world leaders' personal accounts, to give users more context for geopolitical conversations on the platform.The move comes as Twitter's approach to prominent figures and government is under scrutiny after the high-profile ban of former U.S. President Donald Trump's account and as political firestorms have raged in Myanmar and India.In August, Twitter said it would start labeling the accounts of state-affiliated media outlets such as Russia's Sputnik and China's Xinhua News and of some key government officials for the five permanent members of the United Nations Security Council: China, France, Russia, the United Kingdom and the United States.Twitter said in a blog post that it was expanding its labels to key government officials and institutions that were "the voice of the nation state abroad" from G7 countries and a majority of countries where Twitter has identified what it deems state-linked information operations.Mock-ups of the labels shared by Twitter said "US Government organization" or "US Government official."Asked how Twitter would determine government labels in situations such as Myanmar where the military recently seized power in a coup, Twitter's global public policy director, Nick Pickles, said the company was not labeling countries where government was in dispute."We will take into account the international discussion about legitimacy of the government when we are considering if it's appropriate to apply these labels," Pickles said in an interview.The labels will only be added to verified accounts, Pickles said. For example, in Iran that would mean that Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei would not currently get a label because he is not verified, though the foreign minister would.The new countries where senior officials and institutions will be labeled are: Canada, Cuba, Ecuador, Egypt, Germany, Honduras, Indonesia, Iran, Italy, Japan, Saudi Arabia, Serbia, Spain, Thailand, Turkey, and the United Arab Emirates.Twitter will also label the personal accounts of heads of state from these countries and the UN Security Council permanent members, citing the use of these accounts for diplomacy.The company has faced international scrutiny over its approach to world leaders' accounts. In January it banned Trump after the Capitol riot for tweets - sent from his personal @realDonaldTrump account - that it said risked inciting violence.Twitter has generally exempted world leaders' rule-breaking content from removal because it deems their posts in the public interest, instead adding warning notices and reducing the content's reach. Pickles said the way Twitter enforced its rules on accounts would not be based on these labels.(Reporting by Elizabeth Culliford in New York; Editing by Kenneth Li and Matthew Lewis)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/twitter-to-add-more-labels-identifying-world-leader-and-government-accounts-101613128694011.html
12-02-2021||World||Loujain al-Hathloul: All you need to know about Saudi activist who took the wheel||Loujain al-Hathloul, who was released on Wednesday after three years in detention, has been a key figure in Saudi Arabia’s women’s rights movement. In May 2018, al-Hathloul, along with a dozen other women activists, was arrested after being deported from the United Arab Emirates (UAE). Al-Hathloul is currently under probation and is not allowed to leave the country or her home. Saudi Arabia has also imposed a five-year travel ban on the activist.Who is Al-Hathoul?Al-Hathloul was an instrumental figure in the Women to Drive Movement, which fought against the Saudi law that prohibited women from driving. Al-Hathloul in support of the movement drove from the UAE to Saudi Arabia and documented it. She was stopped at the Saudi border and later sent to prison for 73 days for defying the ban, the arrest, according to al-Hathloul shaped her activism for the years to come.She stood for the municipal elections in 2015, becoming one of the first Saudi women to do so, even though she was banned from contesting the polls without being given valid reasons. Al-Hathloul later told Agence France-Presse that she wanted to run “to increase the percentage of women’s participation”. That same year hundreds of Saudi women launched campaigns to run for public office and ultimately 20 of them were elected to the approximately 2,100-member municipal council, a monumental achievement for the Saudi women’s movement.In 2016, al-Hathloul launched a movement against the Saudi guardianship law by sending a petition to King Salman calling for an end of the law. Her petition had 14,000 co-signatories. The ‘Wilayah’ male guardianship system requires Saudi women to seek the permission or accompaniment of a close male relative in matters of work, leisure, finances, law, and health. The system was reformed in August 2019 by King Salman’s son and heir the Crown Prince Mohammed Bin Salman (MBS), but by then al-Hathloul and many like her were already behind bars. The reform also did not give Saudi women the right to marry without seeking the permission of a male relative.Why was she arrested?In March 2018, Hathloul was arrested in the UAE and forcibly flown to Riyadh where she was held under house arrest before being moved to a prison in May. After months of rigorous detention, her trial began in Riyadh in May 2019. On December 28, 2020, she was sentenced to five years and eight months in prison under the country's counter-terrorism law, on charges of communicating with foreign diplomats, journalists and rights organizations and pushing for women’s rights.Al-Hathloul’s family have accused the Saudi government of torturing her in detention. Reuters reported that al-Hathloul and other activists was subjected to electric shocks, flogging, and sexual assault. Walid al-Hathloul, Loujain’s brother, told the Guardian in May 2019 that Saud al-Qahtani, the former adviser to Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, visited Hathloul in detention and supervised her torture.“He sat in on one of the sessions. He told her: ‘I’ll kill you, cut you into pieces, throw you in the sewer system. But before that, I’ll rape you,’” Walid told the Guardian.The Biden connectionAl-Hathloul’s family had pinned their hopes on Joe Biden getting elected as the US president. Biden’s commitment of a tougher stance on Saudi Arabia's human rights abuses was in direct contrast to Trump’s who had earlier dismissed such concerns. The fact that her release happened within a month of President Biden entering the Oval Office is not a coincidence according to many Saudi watchers. Biden has also promised to adopt a tougher stance on the Saudis funding of the war in Yemen under the Crown Prince. Saudi analysts say fearing sanction for their role in Yemen the kingdom has started to make small compromises, starting with the release of al-Hathloul.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/loujain-al-hathloul-all-you-need-to-know-about-saudi-activist-who-took-the-wheel-101613126357601.html
12-02-2021||World||UN says Malaysia should not deport refugees amid concern over Myanmar detainees||The UN refugee agency said on Friday Malaysia should not deport refugees after Reuters reported that it was planning to send 1,200 Myanmar nationals back to their country.Malaysia agreed to return them after the Myanmar military, which seized power in a Feb. 1 coup, offered to send three navy ships to pick citizens held in Malaysian immigration detention centres, officials and sources told Reuters this week."The principle of non-refoulement applies also in Malaysia as part of customary international law which is binding on all states," Yante Ismail, a spokeswoman for the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees in Kuala Lumpur, told Reuters in an emailed statement.Malaysia's director-general of Immigration, Khairul Dzaimee Daud, confirmed on Thursday that 1,200 Myanmar nationals were to be sent back but did not say if any of them were refugees.Malaysia does not formally recognise refugees, instead regarding people who arrive without proper documents as illegal migrants.It is home to more than 154,000 asylum-seekers from Myanmar.Also read| Lunar New Year celebrations amid Covid-19 pandemic in picturesIn the past, people from Myanmar detained in Malaysia have included members of the ethnic Chin, Kachin and the Muslim Rohingya communities fleeing conflict and persecution.Rights groups have expressed concern over the safety of Myanmar refugees after the military coup.The UNHCR said Malaysian authorities had yet to inform it of the deportation but it was concerned that a "number" of those in detention may require international protection, including vulnerable women and children.The UNHCR has not been allowed entry into Malaysia's detention centres since August 2019, preventing it from being able to identify refugees and leaving no way out for the asylum seekers.Malaysia has toughened its stance on immigration during the Covid-19 pandemic, arresting thousands of undocumented migrants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/un-says-malaysia-should-not-deport-refugees-amid-concern-over-myanmar-detainees-101613121463829.html
12-02-2021||World||North Korea's Kim Jong Un fires new economy minister, blasts cabinet for unambitious plans||North Korean leader Kim Jong Un sacked his economy chief, who was only appointed last month, and denounced his cabinet for a lack of innovation in drafting goals for a new five-year economic plan, state media reported on Friday.The ruling Workers' Party wrapped up its four-day plenary meeting on Thursday, where Kim also mapped out his vision for inter-Korean affairs and relations with other countries, as well as party rules and personnel issues.With the economy topping the agenda, Kim reviewed action plans for his new five-year strategy which was unveiled at last month's party congress amid international sanctions, a prolonged border closure and reduced outside aid due to the coronavirus pandemic.He accused the cabinet of drafting plans with "no big changes" from previous ones, which he has said had "failed tremendously on almost every sector."The committee appointed O Su Yong, a longtime economic policymaker who previously served as a vice premier, to be the new director of its department of economic affairs, replacing Kim Tu Il who was appointed in January."The idea and policy of the party congress are not properly reflected in the proposed plan for economic work for this year and innovative viewpoint and clear tactics can't be found," Kim told the meeting, according to the official KCNA news agency."The cabinet failed to play a leading role in mapping out plans of key economic fields and almost mechanically brought together the numbers drafted by the ministries."As a result, plans for some sectors were unrealistically elevated and others had tasks that were already easily achievable, he added.The party decided to build 10,000 homes in capital Pyongyang this year, replacing a previous construction plan that Kim described as too low and a product of "self-protectionism and defeatism" in the bureaucracy.State television footage showed an angry looking Kim yelling, finger pointing and striking the podium as he addressed the meeting.He also called for enhanced self-reliance and the local production of goods and materials, KCNA said, after trade with China, which accounts for about 90% of shipments into and out of North Korea, plunged more than 80% last year due to strict Covid-19 lockdowns.As part of its personnel changes, the committee also promoted Foreign Minister Ri Son Gwon to the politburo shortly after reinstating him as an alternate member of the powerful governing body.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/north-korea-s-kim-jong-un-fires-new-economy-minister-blasts-cabinet-for-unambitious-plans-101613124640119.html
12-02-2021||World||Facebook to curb content shared by pages, profiles run by Myanmar military||Facebook Inc. will significantly reduce the distribution of content from profiles and pages run by the Myanmar military, treating it as a source of misinformation in the wake of the February 1 coup that deposed the elected government.While US social networks have often been reluctant to pick sides in political disputes, Facebook is taking direct steps to stop distribution of the military’s narrative in the country. The company is curbing the reach of its information team and spokesperson Brigadier-General Zaw Min Tun, adding “this same action will be applied to any additional pages that the army controls that repeatedly violate our misinformation policies,” it said in a statement.“Following the military coup in Myanmar on February 1, the situation on the ground remains volatile and Facebook is adapting to meet these events,” Rafael Frankel, director of policy for APAC emerging countries, said in the post.Facebook said it’s treating the situation in the Southeast Asian nation as an emergency, mobilizing resources including Myanmar nationals with native language skills to respond to any threats swiftly. The Menlo Park, Calif.-based company is prioritizing the prevention of offline harm caused by content shared across its apps and services, while also preserving freedom of expression for local citizens. It is putting additional protections in place for journalists, activists and deposed political leaders and removing misinformation alleging widespread fraud or foreign interference in the country’s November election.The Biden administration was quick to denounce the coup and implement sanctions against its leaders. Thousands of protesters have been in the streets in defiance of a military order, demanding the release of political leaders including Aung San Suu Kyi. The army has responded by detaining more of her aides.The military junta has stepped up its crackdown on civil servants, lawyers, and other professionals in a bid to quell protests ahead of the large demonstrations planned for Friday, a public holiday in the nation. It’s also ordered the release of more than 23,000 prisoners, including 55 foreigners, a move that is likely aimed at weakening the protest movement and strengthening support for the coup leaders.“We’re seeing an alarming increase in arrests and detentions, usually at night, all arbitrary,” said Matthew Smith, chief executive of Fortify Rights, a human rights group. “If the amnesty is meant to free up space for political prisoners, then we’re seeing new heights of political oppression.”Demonstrators began to gather in front of the United Nations office and foreign embassies in Yangon on Friday, while there were protests in the capital Naypyidaw, Mandalay and Mawlamyine, according to social media updates. The gatherings, now into their second week, are taking place despite the risk of violence from security forces. Earlier troops used rubber bullets, tear gas and water cannons to disperse demonstrators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/facebook-to-curb-content-shared-by-pages-profiles-run-by-myanmar-military-101613120860041.html
12-02-2021||World||Democrats pushing Biden's Covid-19 bill through House panels||Democrats pushed half of President Joe Biden's USD 1.9 trillion Covid-19 relief plan through a House committee Thursday, advancing USD 1,400 payments for millions of Americans and other initiatives that Republicans call too costly, economically damaging and brazenly partisan.The Ways and Means Committee approved its USD 940 billion chunk of Biden's proposal on a 25-18 party-line vote, highlighting a frenzied week that's seeing a dozen House panels fashion contributions to the sprawling measure. On Wednesday, the Education and Labour Committee approved another top Democratic priority — a boost in the federal minimum wage from USD 7.25 to USD 15 hourly over five years.“Yes it will. We're very proud of that,” House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., told reporters when asked if the overall House bill would include the minimum wage increase. Its fate remains precarious in the more moderate Senate.The House bill would provide hundreds of billions for state and local governments and to boost vaccination efforts, raise tax credits for children and increase unemployment benefits and federal health care assistance. Democratic leaders hope for House passage later this month, with Senate approval and a bill on Biden's desk by mid-March.In committee after committee, Republicans futilely launched waves of amendments at the Democratic measures in an attempt to derail the new president's top initial priority — a massive bill aimed at stemming the deadly pandemic and resuscitating an economy that's shed 10 million jobs and shuttered countless businesses.And while Democrats fended the amendments off, their control of the House and Senate is razor thin. Divisions between progressives and moderates and solid GOP opposition means the bill's final contours can still shift.Republicans' amendments spotlighted what they see as political soft spots they can exploit. Their themes were clear: Democrats are overspending, hurting workers and employers' job markets, being too generous to some immigrants, inviting fraud and rewarding political allies — allegations that Democrats dismiss as ludicrous.And while the GOP amendments were beaten back, they forced Democrats to take positions that could tee up GOP campaign ads for the 2022 elections.There were amendments to reduce the USD 400 extra in weekly jobless benefits Democrats want to provide through August and exempt the smallest businesses from Democrats' plans to gradually raise the minimum wage to USD 15 hourly from USD 7.25. Others would have limited emergency grants for undergraduates to US citizens and barred federal subsidies for some job-based health insurance to people without Social Security numbers, effectively targeting many immigrants.GOP proposals would also have put strings on emergency funds to help schools reopen safely, required that schools offer in-person classes or give the money to parents for education savings accounts if they remain closed. Still others would have ensured that aid for renters, homeowners and the airline industry didn't extend long after the pandemic ends, and divided $26 billion for urban transportation systems between cities and rural areas, which many Republicans represent.“I don't know if the White House knows this, but you're supposed to be creating jobs, not killing them,” said Texas Rep. Kevin Brady, top Republican on the Ways and Means panel.Biden campaigned on reuniting a country riven by President Donald Trump's divisive four years. He met two weeks ago with 10 GOP senators to discuss the Covid-19 plan in a session that seemed cordial but has produced no visible movement.Democrats say attempts to compromise with Republicans wasted time and resulted in a package that proved too small when President Barack Obama sought an economic stimulus compromise in 2009, his first year. They want to finish this initial Biden goal without any stumbles and before emergency jobless benefits expire on March 14.House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy, R-Calif., eyeing 2022 elections that he hopes will make him speaker of a GOP-run House, suggested Republicans were ready to work to restore jobs, reopen schools and provide vaccines “to those who want it.” But he said Democrats' “policy distractions will only make America weaker and bring our recovery to a halt.”Democrats disputed Republican assertions that, for example, a proposed USD 400 weekly pandemic unemployment benefit was so generous it would discourage people from seeking jobs.“The whole force of this amendment is to not, quote unquote, spoil people by giving them too much money,” said Rep. Gwen Moore, D-Wis. She said it suggested people who've lost jobs do not “deserve to live above a starvation-level wage.”Even so, Republicans voiced concerns about the sheer size of the USD 1.9 trillion package. “Big doesn't necessarily mean good,” said Rep. Anthony Gonzalez, R-Ohio.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/democrats-pushing-biden-s-covid-19-bill-through-house-panels-101613117404165.html
12-02-2021||World||UK economy surged in December 2020, capping worst year since 1709||The UK economy grew at double the pace expected in the fourth quarter, capping a year that delivered the worst slump since 1709.Gross domestic product rose 1% from the third quarter, fueled by a boom in construction and government spending. That averted the risk of a second recession early this year but left a 9.9% contraction for the whole of 2020, the biggest slump since a Great Frost killed crops across Europe.The figures add weight to the Bank of England’s view that growth is set to surge as Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s campaign to vaccinate the population takes hold. The central bank’s Chief Economist Andy Haldane expects consumers to unleash an estimated 250 billion pounds ($345 billion) of savings that households built up while the economy was locked down.“A year from now, annual growth could be in the double digits,” Haldane wrote Friday in the Daily Mail newspaper.GDP in the fourth quarter was 7.8% lower than a year earlier, further below pre-pandemic levels than any other Group of Seven economy.Output grew 1.2% in December alone, recouping some of the loss from the previous month when England was placed in a four-week lockdown. That suggests Britons are adapting to restrictions better than they did last spring, when the economy lost around a fifth of its value.Health care and education spending was responsible for much of the increase from the public sector. All the main segments of the economy in the fourth quarter, with construction posting the strongest reading. Companies also increased their stockpiles of goods before the UK’s Brexit transition period ended on Dec. 31.The outlook for the recovery hinges on the degree of scarring left by the pandemic. Few expect GDP to return to its pre-crisis path anytime soon, suggesting Britain will have to live with higher levels of unemployment and government borrowing for years to come.A double-dip recession would have been inevitable if the economy shrank in the fourth quarter. With the country now back under even harsher restrictions, the Bank of England expects a sharp contraction this quarter. Johnson is under pressure to ease restrictions on the economy starting March 8.The hope is for a swift recovery once the vaccine makes it safe to reopen schools and businesses. The pound was little changed after the report. trading down 0.1% at $1.3797 as of 7:14 a.m. London time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-economy-surged-in-december-2020-capping-worst-year-since-1709-101613115944395.html
12-02-2021||World||Post-Covid digital economy must include persons with disabilities: ILO||Advances in the digital economy significantly accelerated by Covid-19 pandemic are creating unprecedented opportunities to build a more inclusive world of work for the more than one billion people with disabilities globally, according to a new report from the International Labour Organisation (ILO).However, digital barriers also threaten to aggravate existing inequalities and exclusion unless they are countered with effective and targeted initiatives.The report titled 'An inclusive digital economy for people with disabilities' was prepared by ILO Global Business and Disability Network (GBDN) and Spanish disability NGO Fundacion ONCE.It looks at the effects of the digital revolution on the creation of new jobs, changes to existing roles and work models as well as online recruitment processes. It also highlights key areas for action by different groups of stakeholders including the digital industry, academia, governments, workers and employers, and people with disabilities themselves.The report highlights three main levers for creating a more inclusive digital labour market for persons with disabilities: ensuring accessibility, fostering digital skills and promoting digital employment.The increase in digital work creates acute problems for those without the necessary skills or equipment, the study says, pointing out that, due to persistent exclusion, people with disabilities generally have lower levels of education and training than their peers without disabilities.Hence, reskilling and upskilling will be key to building an inclusive future of work, alongside initiatives to foster digital employment and support collaboration between relevant stakeholders. Assistive technologies can also open up new occupations and opportunities.However, the report warns that a lack of accessible assistive technologies can create new barriers because without it many essential digital tools will not be usable by people with disabilities."The Covid-19 pandemic has accelerated trends already present in the world of work, including the expansion of the digital economy," said Manuela Tomei, Director of the ILO's conditions of work and equality department."We must ensure that we direct this trend so that it supports an inclusive future of work in which the talents and skills of persons with disabilities can contribute to the success of workplaces and societies worldwide," she said.Fernando Riano, Director of Institutional Relations and Social Responsibility in ONCE Social Group, said: "In order to leave no one behind, the technological revolution which we are living and which has been accelerated by the pandemic needs to ensure an inclusive design for people with disabilities, so prevent it being a barrier for them."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/postcovid-digital-economy-must-include-persons-with-disabilities-ilo-101613114964269.html
12-02-2021||World||Boost to Italy's Mario Draghi, wins backing of largest party in Parliament||The biggest party in Italy’s parliament swung its weight behind Premier-designate Mario Draghi, assuring him broad cross-party support as he prepares to form a government.Members of the Five Star Movement, which has anti-establishment roots and has long denounced bankers and technocrats, voted online by 59% in favor of backing the former head of the European Central Bank. They were asked whether they wanted the movement to support a Draghi-led government which would place strong emphasis on green policies.Draghi has now forged a parliamentary majority following two rounds of talks with political leaders, and he’s expected to report back to President Sergio Mattarella with his cabinet picks as early as this week. Other backers include the center-left Democratic Party and the anti-migrant League of Matteo Salvini.In talks with party leaders Draghi has prioritized countering the pandemic and kick-starting Italy’s vaccination campaign, reviving the economy using the country’s 209 billion-euro ($254 billion) share of the European Union’s recovery package, and pushing for a common euro-area budget.Wide ConsensusNumerically, Draghi does not need Five Star, though the party’s support will allow him to muster wide consensus across the political spectrum.The online vote exacerbated tensions within Five Star, with Alessandro Di Battista, one of its most prominent members, saying after the outcome was announced that he’d leave the party. As many as ten Five Star lawmakers could follow suit, Corriere della Sera reported Friday.Party officials including co-founder Beppe Grillo, a former comic, urged Five Star members to support Draghi saying they had won agreement to create a new ministry for ecological transition, which will merge environmental and economic development issues.(Updates with Five Star internal dissent in sixth paragraph.)For more articles like this, please visit us at bloomberg.com©2021 Bloomberg L.P.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/boost-to-italy-s-mario-draghi-wins-backing-of-largest-party-in-parliament-101613114517329.html
12-02-2021||World||Shell to speed up emissions cuts, says oil output peaked||Global energy company Shell said it plans to eliminate seven refineries and reduce production of gasoline and diesel fuel by 55 per cent over the next decade as it unveiled new plans for reaching its goal of being carbon neutral by 2050.Royal Dutch Shell, which built its brand exploring for oil and natural gas in Africa, South America and the North Sea, said Thursday that the company's oil production peaked in 2019 and is expected to decline by 1 per cent to 2 per cent annually.“Our accelerated strategy will drive down carbon emissions and will deliver value for our shareholders, our customers and wider society,” Chief Executive Ben van Beurden said in a statement.Critics say energy companies like Shell are moving too slowly to cut carbon emissions blamed for global warming amid a United Nations drive to limit temperature increases to no more than 1.5 degrees Celsius (2.7 degrees Fahrenheit) over pre-industrial levels.Also read| India red-hot investment opportunity for its clean energy transition: John KerryShell said it plans to increase production of liquefied natural gas, low-carbon fuels such as bioethanol and hydrogen as it seeks to eliminate or offset all carbon emissions from the company's operations and the products it sells.The company plans to increase its network of electric vehicle charging stations to about 500,000 by 2025 from 60,000 today and double electricity sales to retail and business customers. Shell also said it will invest USD 100 million annually in “nature-based solutions” that protect or redevelop forests, wetlands and grasslands that take carbon out of the atmosphere.Meeting those goals will have an impact on the company's existing operations.Shell said that as the company cuts production of traditional fuels it will reduce the number of refineries it operates to six from 13. The six remaining sites will produce both chemicals and energy, Shell said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/shell-to-speed-up-emissions-cuts-says-oil-output-peaked-101613106230896.html
12-02-2021||World||Merkel defends lockdown extension, says 'mutations may destroy any success'||German Chancellor Angela Merkel on Thursday defended the extension of the nationwide lockdown until March 7 in Bundestag and called on Germans to be "extremely cautious" and warned of the "dangers" of COVID-19 variants, reported DW News Agency.Lawmakers are hoping to avoid the health system being overrun by new COVID-19 mutations through the extension of the lockdown.Merkel also warned that the new mutations, which are already present in Germany, "may destroy any success" already achieved by the months-long lockdown.The chancellor also defended the use of infection rates to determine when it is safe to ease the lockdown measures."I really support the fact that when it comes to further openings and re-openings we've decided on the basis of these new mutations, not to give dates, but to give infection rates," she said.The German chancellor acknowledged that the lockdown had caused lots of suffering, saying: "This is a hard winter, both outside and when it comes to our lives."However, she said that her aim was to avoid another wave with out-of-control infection rates."My target is that any new wave that might happen if the new virus strains become dominant, we mustn't give that room, we mustn't end up with another two-digit exponential growth."As per the German lockdown rules, all nonessential shops and services are currently closed, as are schools, while workplaces have been urged to send workers home, reported DW News Agency.The rules also advise Germans to wear medical masks or FFP2 filter masks when entering shops or using public transport and contact is limited to one person outside of the same household.Meanwhile, State leaders and the government agreed that hairdressers may begin to open from March 1 if they follow strict hygiene guidelines while each state may decide on how to "gradually reopen" schools and daycare centers.The government is now also aiming for an infection rate of 35 new infections per 100,000 people in the past seven days. This number is lower than the previous rate of 50 that was considered necessary to allow contact tracing to function, reported DW News Agency.Further, the infection rate has been falling, but lawmakers are concerned about the spread of new, more contagious variants of COVID-19 -- which are already present in Germany -- if the country opens up too quickly, reported DW News Agency.The Robert Koch Institute (RKI) recorded over 10,200 new infections in the past 24 hours on Thursday, slightly up from the previous two days, but following a general downward trend.The infection rate reached 64.2 new infections per 100,000 people in the past seven days, down from a high of 197.6 on December 22.There were also 666 new coronavirus deaths reported on Thursday, bringing the total death toll since the beginning of the pandemic up to 63,635.As pointed out in Merkel's speech, many people have been disappointed by the slow rollout of vaccines across the country, reported DW News Agency.According to the RKI, some 2.4 million people have received their first vaccine jab -- equivalent to 2.9 per cent of the population -- while 1.1 million have been given both doses -- 1.3 per cent of the population.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/merkel-defends-lockdown-extension-says-mutations-may-destroy-any-success-101613106822969.html
12-02-2021||World||New York police remove barriers from Trump Tower||New Yorkers walking down Fifth Avenue in recent years have become used to navigating security barriers outside Trump Tower. Now, there's more space on the sidewalk.The barricades that went up after Donald Trump won the presidential election in November 2016 have been removed, New York police confirmed on Thursday.Police had already reduced their presence around Trump's New York home, located between 56th and 57th street, following President Joe Biden's inauguration on January 20.Last Friday, "In partnership with the US Secret Service, the decision was made to remove the barriers around Trump Tower," an NYPD spokesman told AFP.Since leaving the White House, Trump has moved to his resort at Mar-a-Lago in Florida, which he made his official residence at the end of 2019.But his company the Trump Organization, which is headed by his two sons, Donald Trump Jr. and Eric Trump, remains based in the 58-story skyscraper near Central Park.The spokesman would not say what security has been left in place to protect the Tower or when members of the Trump family visit."The NYPD does not discuss security measures" he said.Trump Tower has been the site of many anti-Trump protests over the past four years.Last summer, New York Mayor Bill de Blasio, a Democrat, took great joy in joining with activists to paint a giant Black Lives Matter slogan outside the tower.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/new-york-police-remove-barriers-from-trump-tower-101613106413457.html
12-02-2021||World||Siberian blast freezes Britain to coldest since 1955: Minus 23 Celsius||Britain recorded the lowest temperature in 56 years on Thursday after a bitingly cold blast of Siberian weather swirled in from Russia, pushing temperatures down to minus 23 Celsius in the Scottish Highlands.The temperature in the village of Braemar fell to minus 23C (minus 9.4 Fahrenheit) at 0813 GMT, the lowest temperature recorded since 1955, and the lowest February temperature in Britain since 1955 when Winston Churchill was still prime minister.Also read| US secures 200 million more doses of Moderna, Pfizer Covid-19 vaccines"We can now confirm that last night was the coldest February night across the UK since 23rd February 1955," Britain's national meteorological service said. "That includes the infamous winter of 1962/1963."Swathes of Britain have been bathed in snow for days after the cold spell swept in from Scandinavia and Russia: roads were blocked, the fountains in Trafalgar Square froze and children tried to toboggan in London parks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/siberian-blast-freezes-britain-to-coldest-since-1955-minus-23-celsius-101613105438871.html
12-02-2021||World||Life without Google: Australia is now facing the unthinkable||Imagine a world without Google, the search engine so pervasive it’s the starting point for more than five billion queries a day. That’s the reality facing Australia, where the tech giant is threatening to unplug its homepage in a standoff with the government.Google opposes a planned law that would force the company and Facebook Inc. to pay Australian publishers for news content. The Internet juggernaut’s ultimatum to local lawmakers -- change the legislation, or else -- has left a digital vacuum hanging over a nation that essentially knows just one way to navigate the web. Google runs 95% of Internet searches in Australia.Potential fallout from the spat goes far beyond Australia for Alphabet Inc.-owned Google, whose dominance of global advertising has made it a target for watchdogs worldwide. If the company backs down in Australia, the pay-for-news law risks becoming a template for jurisdictions including Canada and the European Union that are following the quarrel and keen to shorten Google’s lead.But disabling what is arguably the world’s most famous website would hand all of Australia to rivals, including Microsoft Corp.’s Bing and DuckDuckGo, which have failed to dislodge Google as the gateway to the web. These search-engine competitors would suddenly have a playground for development and a foothold to advance on the global stage.Software-engineering student Patrick Smith exemplifies Australia’s Google dependency. The 24-year-old from Canberra said he sometimes racks up 400 Google searches a day to help with his studies, catch up on news and look up recipes. Smith said his browser from the previous day shows 150 searches -- in the space of just five hours.“The prospect of Google search disappearing is frightening at best,” Smith said. “It’s quite reflexive of me to Google something, anything, that I’m even mildly not sure of.”Searching for ‘best beach Sydney’ shows the variance in performance among Google’s competitors. DuckDuckGo’s first result was an ad for a hotel more than 1,000 kilometers away in Queensland. Search Encrypt, which touts its data-protection capability, said: ‘It looks like there aren’t any great matches.’ Bing suggested Bondi Beach Post Office. Only Google returned a real beach, Bondi, first up.World-First LegislationThe world-first legislation will be considered by Australia’s parliament from the week starting Feb. 15 after a key senate committee recommended Friday that the bill be passed.“The government expects all parties to continue to work constructively towards reaching commercial agreements,” Treasurer Josh Frydenberg said in a statement welcoming the senate report.The government says the local media industry -- including Rupert Murdoch’s News Corp. and Sydney Morning Herald-publisher Nine Entertainment Co. -- has been bled of advertising revenue by the tech giants and should be paid fairly for content.Google argues it drives traffic to their websites, and that being forced to pay to display snippets of news breaks the principle of an open Internet. It also opposes the law’s final-offer arbitration model that determines how much it should pay publishers.Facebook has said it may stop Australians from sharing news on its platform if the law is enacted, an unprecedented step.Australia’s entire economic output is less than Alphabet’s $1.4 trillion market value, so it may be surprising the distant and tiny market is suddenly so important. But the Internet titans are so keen to avoid Australia setting a global precedent that Alphabet Chief Executive Officer Sundar Pichai and Facebook’s Mark Zuckerberg broke into their diaries in recent weeks for phone hookups with Prime Minister Scott Morrison or his ministers.Sniffing an opportunity, Microsoft President Brad Smith and CEO Satya Nadella also reached out.Grabbing the free hit, Smith told Morrison that Microsoft would invest to “ensure Bing is comparable to our competitors.” This week, Smith wrote in a blog post Thursday that the U.S. should adopt its own version of the Australian law.DuckDuckGo, a search engine that says it doesn’t track its users, is also trying to cash in.“There’s a growing global demand for privacy online and Australians don’t have to wait for government action” to stop using Google, DuckDuckGo said by email. Search Encrypt says its results expire after 30 minutes of inactivity.Non-profit alternatives have also been suggested. The Australian Greens party this month asked the government to consider setting up a publicly owned search engine rather than let Microsoft muscle in. “We should not seek out another foreign giant to fill the gap,” said Senator Sarah Hanson-Young.Google-Free ChinaTo be sure, Australia wouldn’t be the first Google-free nation in the world. In China, where the site is blocked, Baidu Inc. is the leading search engine.But Australia would stand out as a westernized democracy without access to the site and Google’s departure could set the nation back years in terms of fast access to information.With two decades of data in the vault, and processing an estimated 5.5 billion searches a day, Google is regarded as peerless in tailoring results for individuals and their idiosyncracies.“Bing is not going to be able to compete with Google in terms of quality out of the blocks,” said Daniel Angus, Brisbane-based associate professor in digital communication at Queensland University of Technology. “Australians might have to relearn how to use search.”Google again performed best under the search, ‘australia leader,’ showing Morrison and his Liberal party at the top of the page -- sourced from an official government site. Bing gave similar details, though took it from Wikipedia. DuckDuckGo offered ads for team leader jobs in Western Australia. Search Encrypt drew a blank once more.Softening StanceThere are signs Google’s hardline stance may be softening. Morrison said his meeting with the company was “constructive” and “should give them a great encouragement to engage with the process.” Google declined to comment on the meeting, though said in a statement it proposes compensating publishers through its News Showcase product, under which the company pays select media outlets to display curated content.Some older Australians who’ve lived in a pre-Google world have fewer concerns. Gino Porro, the 58-year-old owner of the Li’l Darlin bar and restaurant in Sydney’s Darlinghurst, uses Google and hasn’t heard of any other search engines. But he sees a return of word-of-mouth recommendations instead of online reviews if Google shuts down its homepage. “Customer service is important, not Google,” he said.But back in Canberra, Googling student Smith is uneasy about the possible shutdown and how well a replacement would perform.“I honestly feel that my life would become significantly more difficult,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/life-without-google-australia-is-now-facing-the-unthinkable-101613105156935.html
12-02-2021||World||Russia clashes with US and West over conflict in Ukraine||Russia clashed with the United States and its Western allies Thursday over the nearly seven-year conflict in eastern Ukraine, and the UN warned that the current fragile cease-fire risks being reversed if peace negotiations become deadlocked.Russia called the Security Council meeting to mark Friday’s sixth anniversary of the signing of the Minsk peace plan brokered by France and Germany. It aimed to resolve the conflict between Ukraine and Russia-backed separatists that flared in April 2014 after Russia’s annexation of Crimea and its support for the separatists in the mostly Russian-speaking industrial east called Donbass.Russia’s UN Ambassador Vassily Nebenzia accused Ukraine of failing to implement the 2015 Minsk agreement saying: “Over those six years, we still haven’t gotten an answer to two very important questions: How exactly does Ukraine intend to peacefully resolve the conflict, and how does Kiev envisage special status of Donbass within Ukraine?”“The answers to those questions will entirely determine any prospects for a settlement because after the beginning in 2014 of Kiev’s use of force and the ongoing shellings of residential areas by the Ukrainian army, which continue to this day the people, of Donbass have not felt any connection with Ukraine,” he said.Also read| US condemns China for banning BBC World News on mainlandThe United States and European allies France, Germany, Estonia, Ireland, Norway, Belgium and the United Kingdom blamed Russia for fueling the conflict, which has killed more than 14,000 people, by providing financial and military support to the separatists.US political coordinator Rodney Hunter, speaking on behalf of the Biden administration, said Russia instigated the conflict in Donbass and “has blocked meaningful progress in diplomatic negotiations while arming, training, funding, and leading its proxy forces and supporting the self-proclaimed `authorities’ on the ground.”“The United States reaffirms its unwavering commitment to Ukraine’s sovereignty and territorial integrity,” he said, accusing Russia of escalating “its oppression of any dissent to its brutal occupation of Crimea.”“We will never recognize Russia’s attempted annexation of Crimea,” Hunter said. “As a result, US sanctions on Russia in response to its aggression in eastern Ukraine and occupation of Crimea will remain in place unless -- and until -- Russia reverses course.”The Minsk agreements envisage that Ukraine can regain control over its border with Russia in the separatist-held regions only after they are granted broad self-rule and hold local elections.The accord helped reduce the scope of hostilities, but Ukrainian forces continued to exchange artillery salvos and gunfire.Also read| Bumble’s 31-year-old CEO becomes a rare female billionaireWhile the July 2020 cease-fire “has largely held up,” UN political chief Rosemary DiCarlo said there has been an increase in security incidents in several hotspots in recent months.“This dangerous trend needs to be quickly reversed,” she said.The cease-fire deal was reached by members of the Tripartite Contact Group that includes representatives of Russia, Ukraine and the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe known as the OSCE. It followed a meeting in Paris in December 2019 of the leaders of Ukraine, Russia, France and Germany -- the so-called Normandy group -- who expressed support for the Minsk deal and agreed to revive the peace process.DiCarlo told the council that continuing discussions in these groups are “no reason for complacency” and no substitute “for meaningful progress.”“The risk of backsliding is real if negotiations become deadlocked,” she warned.Russia’s Nebenzia said the Minsk agreement didn’t say anything about direct dialogue with the two separatist governments of Donetsk and Luhansk in Donbass, or about agreeing on any special status for the region.“Instead of that, fantasies about establishing some sort of international administration and holding elections only two years after that are in the document,” he said. “Do you really think the people of Donbass will really agree to this international form of occupation?”Also read| India should be very, very proud: WHO’s praise amid falling Covid-19 casesIn response, a statement from the seven European countries strongly condemned “the continued destabilization of certain areas of Donetsk and Luhansk regions” and again called on Russia “to immediately stop fueling the conflict “ by supporting the separatists.Germany’s UN Ambassador Christoph Heusgen went further, telling the Security Council how Russia violated key paragraphs in the Minsk agreements -- including the initial 2015 cease-fire, failing to withdraw heavy weapons and foreign forces, and blocking free access for OSCE monitors to observe areas of the Russian-Ukrainian border not controlled by the Ukrainian government.“Until today, there are Russian forces in eastern Ukraine,” Heusgen said. “They may not have the official stamp of the Russian army, but the Russians continue to be there, and without Russia, Luhansk and Donetsk could not survive.”Halit Cevik, chief monitor of the OSCE Special Monitoring Mission to Ukraine, saw “a window of opportunity for the sides to find a way towards lasting de-escalation, but we also see that it is narrowing.”Cevik said the July 2020 cease-fire led to “the longest-lasting reduction in violence” since the mission began recording cease-fire violations. But he said, “adherence has frayed over time.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/russia-clashes-with-us-and-west-over-conflict-in-ukraine-101613098486364.html
12-02-2021||World||US secures 200 million more doses of Moderna, Pfizer Covid-19 vaccines||The United States has secured an additional 200 million doses of Moderna and Pfizer Covid-19 vaccines, President Joe Biden announced on Thursday (local time)."Just this afternoon, we signed the final contracts for 100 million more Moderna and 100 million more Pfizer vaccines. We're also able to move up the delivery dates with an additional 200 million vaccines to the end of July, faster than we expected and in further good news both companies agreed and we're now contractually obligated to expedite delivery of 100 million doses that were promised by the end of June to deliver them by the end of May," he said in an address to the National Institutes of Health.He also informed that the US is on track to have a vaccine supply for 300 million Americans by the end of July."Within three weeks, round the clockwork with so many people standing behind me and in front of me, we've now purchased enough vaccine supply to vaccinate all Americans, and now we're working to get those vaccines into the arms of millions of people," Biden said.Biden also faulted former President Donald Trump for not doing enough to plan for the vaccination rollout.Also read| Venezuela nears Covid-19 vaccine deal using cash in frozen accounts"My predecessor -- to be very blunt about it -- did not do his job in getting ready for the massive challenge of vaccinating hundreds of millions of Americans. He didn't order enough vaccines. He didn't mobilize enough people to administer the shots. He didn't set up federal vaccine centers where eligible people could go and get their shots.," said the President.The US remains the nation worst hit by the pandemic, with the world's most cases and deaths, making up more than 25 percent of the global caseload and nearly 20 percent of the global deaths.In his concluding remarks, Biden said: "We're in a national emergency and this will be one of the most difficult operational challenges we have ever undertaken as a nation. It's going to take time. We're going to face setbacks along the way and I promise you when we do I'll just own up to it and say what they are."US Covid-19 cases reached 20 million on January 1, and have increased by 6 million within a month.According to the latest update by the Johns Hopkins University, US has recorded a total of 27,382,857 infections and 475,040 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-secures-200-million-more-doses-of-moderna-pfizer-covid-19-vaccines-101613097841566.html
12-02-2021||World||UN’s race to zero draws climate pledges from a fifth of FTSE 100||Almost a fifth of FTSE 100 companies have signed up to a United Nations pledge to eliminate their carbon emissions by 2050, as UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson strives to inject momentum into domestic efforts to fight climate change.Nineteen members of the UK’s benchmark stock index, with a market capitalization of about 715 billion pounds ($987 billion), have committed to the UN’s Race to Zero campaign, Andrew Griffith, the premier’s climate envoy to business, said in an interview. They include AstraZeneca Plc, Vodafone Group Plc and Rolls Royce Holdings Plc, he said.With the UK set to host this year’s major round of UN climate talks, known as COP26, in Glasgow in November, Johnson aims to put Britain at the forefront of global efforts to tackle global warming. In December, he committed to cutting Britain’s emissions 68% by 2030 compared with 1990, the deepest cuts in the Group of 20 nations. At the same time, he’s pushing corporations to embrace the push to eliminate emissions by 2050.“The prime minister was very keen that we create a real sense of domestic momentum so that COP 26 is not just about world leaders flying in and having their photos taken in front of flags; it’s about real climate action” Griffith, a Conservative Party lawmaker and former chief operating officer at Sky Plc, said in an interview.Also read| Britain's economy to reach pre-Covid-19 levels within two years: Survey“If we don’t succeed in getting business to take serious action about climate, then we’re not going to achieve our overall goals,” he said.Griffith was named the UK’s “Net Zero Business Champion” in November, with a mission to push businesses toward adopting targets for carbon neutrality.Ultimate Goal“My ultimate goal is the whole of the UK business community from the largest to the smallest,” Griffith said.Once smaller companies are included, the UK is already outstripping the likes of Germany and France in terms of involvement in the Race to Zero, he said. His message to companies is to look at their sources of energy, their buildings and their product sourcing.Commitments companies must make when signing up to the UN program include net zero emissions by 2050 as well as interim targets.Also read| CDC says severe reactions to Covid-19 vaccines are rareThey must take “immediate action” and can only use offsets that have “robust standards,” according to the UN. They’re part of a wider goal to contain the global temperature rise since the industrial revolution to 1.5 degrees Celsius.Other companies signing up to the pledge include GlaxoSmithKline Plc, Diageo Plc, Burberry Group, BT Group and Reckitt Benckiser Group, Griffith said.“Very few of them actually need a lot of convincing,” he said. “Businesses are seeing how fast their own shareholders are moving.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uns-race-to-zero-draws-climate-pledges-from-a-fifth-of-ftse-100-101613096111890.html
12-02-2021||World||EU says it is ready to work with Biden administration to settle trade disputes||The European Union on Thursday acknowledged a move by the new US government to refrain from imposing additional tariffs on EU goods in a long-running dispute over aircraft tariffs, and said it was ready to work to resolve trade disputes.The US Trade Representative's office on Thursday said it had agreed with US industry that it was unnecessary to revise existing tariffs on European goods at this time, refraining from changes that would have been possible during a periodic review.The move came a day after USTR said it looked forward to working with European allies to resolve a 16-year-long battle over subsidies provided to Europe's Airbus and its US rival Boeing Co.Asked about Thursday's decision, an EU spokesman said, "The EU is ready to engage with the new US administration on the basis of the EU-US agenda for global change we adopted on December 2. Our aim is to find solutions to our ongoing trade disputes, including on Airbus/Boeing."Also read: US condemns China for banning BBC World News on mainlandThe American Italian Food Coalition, which represents more than 450 Italian companies, manufacturers and trade groups, said the move would give both sides time to work out a solution."The Biden Administration appropriately hit the pause button on another carousel round of tariffs," it said.Officials from the EU and Britain are keen to work out a deal with the administration of President Joe Biden, but talks are on ice until Biden's pick as top trade negotiator, Katherine Tai, is confirmed in her job by the U.S. Senate. That could take several more weeks, with a confirmation hearing not yet scheduled.Envoys from Britain and the European Union on Monday stressed their willingness to resolve the aircraft subsidies dispute.EU Ambassador Stavros Lambrinidis said Brussels had proposed a six-month suspension of tariffs on both sides to allow for negotiations. Britain, which is no longer part of the EU but is part of the Airbus consortium, has said it is also willing to lift tariffs, possibly unilaterally, as a goodwill gesture.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/eu-says-it-is-ready-to-work-with-biden-administration-to-settle-trade-disputes-101613094939945.html
12-02-2021||World||Venezuela nears Covid-19 vaccine deal using cash in frozen accounts||Venezuela’s government and opposition are in talks with the Pan-American Health Organization to buy vaccines to inoculate 6 million people against Covid-19, according to three people with direct knowledge of the talks.About 1.4 million of those are from AstraZeneca Plc and will come from the World Health Organization-backed Covax initiative, the people said.The vaccines would be available from March, and would be paid for with offshore funds frozen by U.S. sanctions, which can’t be unblocked without the backing of the opposition. While the source of the remaining vaccines is yet to be determined, the total cost for the 12 million doses, enough to vaccinate 6 million Venezuelans, is approximately $120 million, according to two of the people.The government is looking to create a fund for Covid-19 vaccines, President Nicolas Maduro said late Thursday.“We are seeking a practical and effective agreement to create a $300 million fund with the Pan American Health Organization and the World Health Organization for Venezuela’s vaccines,” Maduro said on state television.Maduro made no mention of talks with the opposition to secure vaccines, nor did he offer details on where the money would come from.Under the terms of the deal between the government and opposition, last discussed in a meeting earlier today, PAHO and Unicef will have strict supervision of the vaccination plan as well as the refrigeration chain needed to keep the vaccines within the required temperature range, two of the people said. Paolo Balladelli, head of the WHO-PAHO mission in Venezuela, said on Twitter that the country is getting is closer to accessing coronavirus vaccines.Health Minister Carlos Alvarado and opposition medical adviser Dr. Julio Castro attended the meeting, among others, the people said. Press officials for Alvarado and Castro didn’t immediately respond to requests for comment.While the government is proposing to distribute the vaccines in major public hospitals already tending to Covid-19 patients, the opposition is asking for stricter terms after clauses for a previous deal to distribute more than 340,000 antigen tests were not met.Venezuela has so far reported 131,476 covid cases and 1,253 deaths, fewer than most regional peers.The first 100,000 doses of ten million Sputnik-V vaccines purchased by the government are set to arrive next week, Maduro said this week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/venezuela-nears-covid-19-vaccine-deal-using-cash-in-frozen-accounts-101613096151193.html
12-02-2021||World||5-day 'snap lockdown' likely in Melbourne over Covid-19 cluster: Reports||Australia's second-most populous city could be placed under a five-day snap lockdown, local media reported on Friday, potentially limiting crowds at the Australian Open major tennis tournament.A fresh COVID-19 cluster linked to a quarantine hotel in Melbourne, capital of Victoria state, reached 13 cases as of Thursday midnight as authorities rushed to quash the spread of the virus.The state cabinet will consider plans for the hard lockdown with restrictions to be put in place on leaving home for non-essential services and gathering at homes, the Herald Sun newspaper reported, citing a government source.The lockdown measures are expected to impact only residents of Melbourne, the report said, although those curbs could prevent crowds at the Australian Open tournament.Prime Minister Scott Morrison offered his government's full support with the decisions to be made by Victoria to contain the outbreak."We have dealt with (outbreaks) in the last few weeks in Sydney and Brisbane and Perth and so a proportionate response... enables tracers to be able to get on top of it and get the same successful result we have seen in other states," Morrison told reporters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/5day-snap-lockdown-likely-in-melbourne-over-covid-19-cluster-reports-101613095779132.html
12-02-2021||World||US condemns China for banning BBC World News on mainland||The United States on Thursday (local time) condemned China for banning the broadcasting of BBC World News for reporting on issues such as human rights violations in Xinjiang and the country's handling of Covid-19."We absolutely condemn the People Republic of China's (PRC) decision to ban BBC World News. The PRC maintains one of the most controlled, most oppressive, least free information spaces in the world. It is troubling that the PRC restricts outlets and platforms from operating freely in China," said US State Department spokesperson Ned Price during a press briefing.He further added: "Beijing's leaders use free and open media environments overseas to promote misinformation. We call on PRC and other nations with authoritarian controls over their population to allow their full access to the internet and media."Price asserted that media freedom is an important right and is key to ensuring that an informed citizenry can share their ideas freely among themselves and their leaders.This comes after the National Radio and Television Administration (NRTA) of China barred the broadcasting of BBC World News on the mainland claiming that it has done a "slew of falsified" reporting on issues such as human rights violations in Xinjiang based on interviews of victims surviving "re-education camps."Global Times, the Chinese Communist Party government's mouthpiece, said that the broadcaster is responsible "for falsified reporting" on China's handling of the coronavirus in the country.The move came after the Chinese Foreign Ministry has said that "BBC has made some false reports" on human rights abuses against Uyghurs in Xinjiang after the British broadcaster reported systematic rape in so-called re-education camps.China has been rebuked globally for cracking down on Uyghur Muslims by sending them to mass detention camps, interfering in their religious activities and sending members of the community to undergo some form of forcible re-education or indoctrination, although the country has been vehemently denying allegations of massive human rights violations.On January 27, US Secretary of State Antony Blinken had stated that his opinions on the genocide committed against the Uyghurs by China have not changed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-condemns-china-for-banning-bbc-world-news-on-mainland-101613094863783.html
12-02-2021||World||Police search Navalny headquarters in late-night raid||Russian police conducted a late-night search of the headquarters for jailed opposition leader Alexei Navalny, whose arrest last month set off nationwide protests.The search by a dozen police ended about 1 am. It was not immediately clear if the police took away items as potential evidence, but photos posted by Navalny's staff on social media showed them bagging material including a coffee mug.There was no statement from police about the reason for the search; the Mediazona news website that focuses on political repressions and human rights abuses cited a Navalny staff member as saying that police said they had received a report that pornography was being published at the office.Navalny was arrested on January 17 when he returned to Russia from Germany, where he had spent five months recovering from nerve-agent poisoning that he blames on the Kremlin.He later was ordered to serve 2 1/2 years in prison on the grounds that his time in Germany violated a suspended sentence he was handed in a money-laundering and fraud conviction.The arrest sparked protests throughout the county on two weekends in January, in which a total of about 10,000 people reportedly were arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/police-search-navalny-headquarters-in-late-night-raid-101613094246816.html
12-02-2021||World||US Justice Department seeks to delay appeals on WeChat, TikTok restrictions||The US Justice Department on Thursday asked a federal appeals court to pause a government appeal of a lower court ruling blocking restrictions that the Trump administration had imposed on Tencent's messaging app WeChat.The government filed similar requests on Wednesday asking two federal appeals courts to hold off on appeals seeking to overturn rulings that had barred government restrictions on the popular Chinese-owned video-sharing app TikTok.The administration of former President Donald Trump had attempted to block new users from downloading the apps and ban other technical transactions that TikTok and WeChat both said would effectively the apps' use in the United States.Three federal judges in separate rulings blocked the US Commerce Department orders issued in August that sought to prevent new TikTok and WeChat downloads and bar other transactions.The Justice Department said on Thursday it "plans to conduct an evaluation of the underlying record justifying those prohibitions" to determine whether they are warranted by the national security threat Trump described.WeChat has an average of 19 million daily active users in the United States. It is popular among Chinese students, Americans living in China and some Americans who have personal or business relationships in China.A group of WeChat users sued to block the ban in August, which it said would have resulted in an "unprecedented shutdown of a major platform for communications relied on by millions of people in the United States."Late Wednesday, the 3rd US Circuit Court Of Appeals agreed to cancel oral arguments previously set for Thursday in one of the government's TikTok appeals.Reuters on Wednesday, citing two people briefed on the matter, reported that the plan unveiled in September for US investors, including Oracle Corp and Walmart Inc , to buy a majority stake in TikTok's American operations could face months of additional reviews, as the new Biden administration conducts a wide-ranging review of China policy.The Trump administration had contended that WeChat and TikTok pose national security concerns as the personal data of U.S. users could be obtained by China’s government. TikTok, which has over 100 million users in the United States, has denied the allegation as has WeChat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-justice-department-seeks-to-delay-appeals-on-wechat-tiktok-restrictions-101613093660824.html
12-02-2021||World||Britain's economy to reach pre-Covid-19 levels within two years: Survey||Britain's economy will narrowly dodge a double-dip recession and will have returned to pre-Covid-19 levels within two years, according to economists in a Reuters poll who said the Bank of England was unlikely to take borrowing costs negative.The country has suffered the highest coronavirus-related death toll in Europe and the government has reimposed strict lockdown measures to try and stop the virus spreading, dealing a hammer blow to its dominant service industry.Gross domestic product was forecast to contract 3.0% this quarter, the Feb. 8-11 poll of around 70 economists found, more than double the 1.4% fall predicted last month. Conversely, the median for Q4 was revised up to 0.4% growth from a 2.0% contraction previously.But Britain is among the leading countries in rolling out vaccines to its population and GDP was expected to grow 4.7% in the second quarter as some restrictions are likely to be lifted. In Q3 and Q4 it will expand 2.7% and 1.5% respectively."The UK's success in vaccinating high-risk groups and the sharp fall in COVID-19 cases suggests the government will on Feb. 22 be able to set out plans for schools to reopen... followed by non-essential retailers in the second half of March and the consumer services sector in the second half of April," said Samuel Tombs at Pantheon Macroeconomics.For 2021 as a whole the growth forecast was revised down to 4.7% from 4.9% while the 2022 median was revised up to 5.5% from 5.3%.When asked how long it would take for the economy to reach pre-Covid-19 levels 18 said within two years from now. One said within a year and nine said would take over two years. Last month 14 of 23 said it would take over two years.Britain also faces the added headache of Brexit and just under half of British companies that export goods have run into difficulties caused by the shift in trade terms with the European Union since the start of the year, a survey showed on Thursday.Trade analysts think some of the extra cost and bureaucracy will be permanent, and the Bank of England has forecast they will lower trade by 10% in the long run compared with a frictionless arrangement.HOLDING ABOVE WATERLast year the BoE slashed Bank Rate to 0.1% and restarted its bond buying programme to offer support to the economy. Medians in the poll suggest there will be no unwinding of that ultra-loose monetary policy until 2024 at the earliest.There had been talk the Bank would take borrowing costs negative - and markets had been pricing it in - but 30 of 34 economists who responded to an extra question said it was unlikely or very unlikely. Only four said it was likely."An economic recovery from spring onwards and a continued rise in inflation towards the BoE's 2% target over the course of 2021 will likely put to bed any remaining expectation that the Bank Rate could fall further," said Kallum Pickering at Berenberg.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/britains-economy-to-reach-pre-covid-19-levels-within-two-years-survey-101613093295105.html
12-02-2021||World||Democrats close their case using Donald Trump’s words against him||House prosecutors concluded their case for convicting Donald Trump in his Senate impeachment trial, saying they’ve proven that the former president is guilty of inciting an insurrection when a mob of his supporters stormed the US Capitol on Jan. 6 to stop the peaceful transfer of power.“Senators, America, we need to exercise our common sense about what happened,” Representative Jamie Raskin, the lead impeachment manager, said in the Democrats final arguments. “Let’s not get caught up in a lot of outlandish lawyers’ theories here. Exercise your common sense about what just took place in our country.”House managers spent three days highlighting Trump’s own tweets, speeches and comments to argue that his months-long campaign to stoke anger about the Nov. 3 election he lost to Democrat Joe Biden. The attempt to overturn the results with “the big lie” the election was stolen culminated in the riot he did nothing to prevent or stop, they argued.Trump’s lawyers are set to present an abbreviated defense on Friday, which will include video presentations after House managers played gripping footage of the assault on the Capitol and violent attacks on police officers.David Schoen, one of Trump’s lawyers, said he expects the defense to take four hours or less, even though each side was allowed 16 hours for arguments.“We’re just putting on the evidence, the evidence speaks for itself,” he said after leaving a meeting with a several Republican senators. He said there was nothing inappropriate about meeting with senators who also are serving as jurors in the trial.“That’s the practice here,” he said. “There’s nothing about this thing that has any semblance to due process whatsoever.”Schoen dismissed the House impeachment managers’ presentation, particularly the extensive use of video from the Jan. 6 riot, accusing them of using it for “entertainment value.”While some Republicans said the Democrats’ presentation was very effective, there was little sign that enough of them would be moved to convict Trump. Forty-four of 50 Republicans have already voted twice to indicate they view the trial of a president already out of office as unconstitutional. At least 17 GOP votes would be needed to reach the two-thirds majority necessary for conviction.Biden, who has avoided comment on the impeachment proceedings, said in brief remarks to reporters Thursday that “some minds may have been changed” by the vivid case presented by House impeachment managers.But Senator Dick Durbin, the No. 2 Democrat in the chamber, said that he saw little evidence that more Republicans would join with Democrats to convict Trump of inciting an insurrection.“Many of them are loyal to Donald Trump even to this day, despite what he may have said about them or their families in the past,” Durbin said in an interview with Bloomberg Television. “And more of them are afraid of Donald Trump’s political power.”GOP Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, one of Trump’s closest allies in Congress, suggested the prosecution was futile, with most of his Republican colleagues already decided against conviction. He said he had assured the former president “the case is over” and “it’s just a matter of getting the final verdict.”Republican Senator James Lankford of Oklahoma said the impeachment managers “did not connect the dots” for him Thursday in tying Trump’s words to the insurrection.Democrats used their final day of arguments in Trump’s Senate trial to cement the link between Trump’s inflammatory rhetoric and the insurrection at the Capitol by highlighting the words of the insurrectionists, which House managers said show they were following the orders of Trump.The House impeachment managers also said Trump inspired or condoned the domestic extremist plot to kidnap Democratic Michigan Governor Gretchen Whitmer, the protests at state capitals around the country and the threats that required more than 25,000 National Guard troops to lock down Washington for Biden’s inauguration.They said he must be convicted to prevent a future president from following the same destructive path.“We’re not here to punish Donald Trump,” said Representative Diana DeGette, one of the nine House managers. “We are here to prevent the seeds of hatred that he planted from bearing any more fruit.”Representative Ted Lieu, another manager, said Trump has showed no remorse or regret after the Capitol attack.“He was showing defiance,” Lieu said. “He was telling us that he would do this again, that he could do this again.”The trial is moving to a conclusion as soon as this weekend. The House managers will wrap up their case Thursday. Trump’s defense takes over on Friday and may only need one day for their arguments, which also will include video presentations.Raskin argued the attack on the Capitol was part of a long-standing “pattern and practice of inciting violence” by Trump. He ticked off examples of Trump encouraging or voicing approval of assaults going back to his 2016 presidential campaign, when he several times encouraged crowds to attack protesters disrupting the events.DeGette focused on the words of those who participated in the insurrection.In videos and other social media posts, the insurrectionists “make clear the attack was done for Donald Trump, at his instructions and to fulfill his wishes,” she said.“They tagged Mr. Trump in tweets,” she said. “Folks, this was not a hidden crime.”She then showed videos of the mob responding to Trump’s call to fight and show “strength” with chants to “fight for Trump” and to invade the Capitol.The prosecution used previously unreleased videos and audio to vividly show senators how close the rioters came to reaching them, as well as Vice President Mike Pence. Senators in the chamber listened in rapt silence as the recordings played.The impeachment managers depicted the assault as not only foreseeable but the intended result of a multitude of actions calculated to incite Trump’s followers. The strategy appeared designed to rebut defense efforts to cast his fiery speech before the assault as normal political hyperbole and to persuade the public that his actions were premeditated and cynical.Trump’s team intends to rely heavily on his use of the words “peacefully and patriotically” at one point in the Jan. 6 speech as part of his defense against the impeachment charge of incitement, according to people familiar with the effort. They also plan to show videos of prominent Democrats using similar rhetoric about fighting to argue Trump is being subjected to a double standard.Representative Madeleine Dean, another impeachment manager, anticipating the argument, said on Wednesday that Trump only used the word “peacefully” once in the 11,000-word speech, while urging on followers with the words “fight” or “fighting” 20 times.House managers also addressed the defense from Trump’s lawyers that the impeachment violates his First Amendment protection and that the quick impeachment by the House violates his due process rights. Democrats said the arguments are without merit and an attempt to distract from the facts.Trump’s free speech rights can’t protect him from impeachment for incitement to insurrection and “is wrong on the facts, wrong on the law and would flip the constitution upside down,” Representative Joe Neguse said.The House had to act quickly without calling witnesses or holding a hear because of the threat of additional violence, and the Senate trial is giving Trump “any and all process that he is due, right here in this chamber,” Lieu said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/democrats-close-their-case-using-donald-trump-s-words-against-him-101613091782590.html
12-02-2021||World||Microsoft backs search engines paying for news worldwide||Microsoft on Thursday lobbied for other countries to follow Australia's lead in calling for news outlets to be paid for stories published online, a move opposed by Facebook and Google.Microsoft last week offered to fill the void if rival Google follows through on a threat to turn off its search engine in Australia over the plan.Microsoft President Brad Smith said in a statement the company fully supports proposed legislation in Australia that would force Google and Facebook to compensate media for their journalism."This has made for an unusual split within the tech sector, and we've heard from people asking whether Microsoft would support a similar proposal in the United States, Canada, the European Union, and other countries," Smith said in a blog post."The short answer is yes."Facebook and Google have both threatened to block key services in Australia if the rules, now before parliament, become law as written.The situation raises the question of whether US President Joe Biden will back away from his predecessor's objection to the proposal in Australia."As the United States takes stock of the events on January 6, it's time to widen the aperture," Smith said, referring to a deadly attack on the US Capitol building by a mob of Trump supporters out to overturn the election results."The ultimate question is what values we want the tech sector and independent journalism to serve."Smith argued that internet platforms that have not previously compensated news agencies should now step up to revive independent journalism that "goes to the heart of our democratic freedoms.""The United States should not object to a creative Australian proposal that strengthens democracy by requiring tech companies to support a free press," Smith said."It should copy it instead."- Bing goes big? -The proposed law in Australia would govern relations between financially distressed traditional media outlets and the giants which dominate the internet and capture a significant share of advertising revenues.Microsoft's search engine Bing accounts for less than 5 percent of the market in Australia, and from 15 to 20 percent of the market in the United States, according to the tech giant based in Washington State."With a realistic prospect of gaining usage share, we are confident we can build the service Australians want and need," Smith said."And unlike Google, if we can grow, we are prepared to sign up for the new law's obligations, including sharing revenue as proposed with news organizations."Under the proposed News Media Bargaining Code, Google and Facebook would be required to negotiate payments to individual news organizations for using their content on the platforms.Australia's biggest media companies, Rupert Murdoch's News Corp and Nine Entertainment, have said they think the payments should amount to hundreds of millions of dollars per year.If agreement cannot be reached on the size of the payments, the issue would go to so-called "final offer" arbitration where each side proposes a compensation amount and the arbiter chooses one or the other.Google and Facebook, backed up by the US government and leading internet architects, have said the scheme would seriously undermine their business models and the very functioning of the internet.Both Facebook and Google have insisted they are willing to pay publishers for news via licensing agreements and commercial negotiations, and both have signed deals worth millions of dollars with news organizations around the world.Google has said the bargaining code should focus on facilitating these kinds of negotiations, but it rejected the idea of mandatory "final offer" arbitration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/microsoft-backs-search-engines-paying-for-news-worldwide-101613091525094.html
12-02-2021||World||Biden rescinds Trump's emergency order on US-Mexico border wall||US President Joe Biden on Thursday (local time) rescinded the emergency order used by former President Donald Trump to justify the construction of the US-Mexico border wall, announced the White House."I have determined that the declaration of a national emergency at our southern border was unwarranted," Biden wrote in a letter to House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, reported The Hill."I have also announced that it shall be the policy of my administration that no more American taxpayer dollars be diverted to construct a border wall, and that I am directing a careful review of all resources appropriated or redirected to that end," he added.Trump had first floated the idea of a border wall on the campaign trail in 2016, repeatedly insisting that Mexico would pay for its construction. However, illegal immigration increased in Trump's four years.However, in early 2020, Customs and Border Protection reported it had found USD 11 billion in funding for the wall, The Hill reported.The proclamation is a final step from Biden after issuing an executive order on day one ordering a pause on all border wall construction.The national emergency at the border in early 2019 after repeatedly butting heads with lawmakers over funding for the project. The move landed his administration in court, as environmental groups and the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) challenged USD 2.5 billion in Department of Defense spending that had been diverted to complete construction, according to The Hill.The letter was welcomed by members of Congress long opposed to the wall who argued a physical barrier would do little to address immigration or security concerns."Trump's national emergency was never about security... It was about stealing money to fund a monument to his racist policies along the Southern Border. Now we must cancel the contracts & ensure that not another foot of border wall is constructed," Representative Raul Grijalva tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-rescinds-trump-s-emergency-order-on-us-mexico-border-wall-101613090929328.html
12-02-2021||World||Convict Donald Trump or face dire democracy damage, prosecutors say||Dire harm from Donald Trump’s false and violent incitements will vex American democracy long into the future unless the Senate convicts him of impeachment and bars him from future office, House prosecutors insisted Thursday as they concluded two days of emotional arguments in his historic trial.Making their case, they presented piles of new videos of last month's deadly Capitol attack, with invaders proudly declaring they were merely obeying “the president’s orders” to fight to overturn the election results as Congress was certifying his defeat to Democrat Joe Biden. Trump is accused of inciting the invasion, which prosecutors said was a predictable culmination of the many public and explicit instructions he gave supporters long before his White House rally that unleashed the Jan. 6 attack.“If we pretend this didn’t happen, or worse, if we let it go unanswered, who’s to say it won’t happen again?” argued prosecutor Rep. Joe Neguse, D-Colo. Even out of office, Democrats warned, Trump could whip up a mob of followers for similar damage.Trump’s defense will take the Senate floor on Friday, arguing that as terrible as the attack was, it clearly was not the president's doing. The proceedings could finish with a vote this weekend by the senators who are sitting as impeachment jurors.The Democrats, with little hope of conviction by two-thirds of the evenly divided Senate, are also making their most graphic case to the American public, while Trump’s lawyers and the Republicans are focused on legal rather than emotional or historic questions, hoping to get it all behind as quickly as possible. Five people died in the Capitol chaos and its aftermath, a domestic attack unparalleled in U.S. history.Trump's second impeachment trial, on a charge of incitement of insurrection, has echoes of last year’s impeachment and acquittal over the Ukraine matter, as prosecutors warn senators that Trump has shown no bounds and will pose a continuing danger to the civic order unless he convicted. Even out of the White House, the former president holds influence over large swaths of voters.The Democratic House members acting as prosecutors drew a direct line Thursday from Trump's repeated comments condoning and even celebrating violence — praising “both sides” after the 2017 outbreak at the white supremacist rally in Charlottesville, Virginia — and urging his rally crowd last month to go to the Capitol and fight for his presidency. He spread false claims about election fraud, without evidence, and urged his supporters to “stop the steal” of the presidency.Prosecutors used the rioters' own videos from that day to pin responsibility on Trump. “We were invited here,” said one. “Trump sent us,” said another. “He’ll be happy. We’re fighting for Trump.”“They truly believed that the whole intrusion was at the president’s orders,” said Rep. Diana DeGette of Colorado. “The president told them to be there.”At the White House, President Biden said he believed “some minds may be changed” after senators saw chilling security video Wednesday of the deadly insurrection at the Capitol, including of rioters searching menacingly for House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Vice President Mike Pence.Biden said he didn’t watch any of the previous day’s proceedings live but later saw news coverage.Though most of the Senate jurors seem to have made up their minds, making Trump’s acquittal likely, the never-before-seen audio and video released Wednesday became a key exhibit.Senators sat riveted as the jarring video played in the chamber on Wednesday. The footage showed the mob smashing into the building, rioters engaging in hand-to-hand combat with police, with audio of officers pleading for back-up. Rioters were seen roaming the halls chanting “Hang Mike Pence,” and eerily singing out “Where are you, Nancy?” in search of Pelosi.Videos of the siege have been circulating since the day of the riot, but the graphic compilation offered a moment-by-moment retelling of one of the nation’s most alarming days. And it underscored how dangerously close the rioters came to the nation’s leaders, shifting the focus of the trial from an academic debate about the Constitution to a raw retelling of the assault.Trump attorney David Schoen took issue, saying the presentation was “offensive” and that the Democrats “haven’t tied it in any way to Trump.”He told reporters Thursday at the Capitol he believed Democrats were making the public relive the tragedy in a way that “tears at the American people” and impedes efforts at unity in the country.And by Thursday, senators sitting through a second full day of arguments appeared somewhat fatigued, slouching in their chairs, crossing their arms and walking around to stretch.One Republican, Sen. James Inhofe of Oklahoma, said during a break: “To me, they’re losing credibility the longer they talk.”The goal of the two-day presentation by prosecutors from the House, which impeached the outgoing president last month a week after the siege, was to cast Trump not as an innocent bystander but rather as the “inciter in chief” who spent months spreading falsehoods and revving up supporters to challenge the election.“This attack never would have happened but for Donald Trump,” Rep. Madeleine Dean, one of the impeachment managers, said as she choked back emotion. “And so they came, draped in Trump’s flag, and used our flag, the American flag, to batter and to bludgeon.”Trump's lawyers are likely to blame the rioters themselves for the violence.The first president to face an impeachment trial after leaving office, Trump is also the first to be twice impeached.His lawyers say he cannot be convicted because he is already gone from the White House. Even though the Senate rejected that argument in Tuesday's vote to proceed to trial, the issue could resonate with Senate Republicans eager to acquit Trump without being seen as condoning his behavior.While six Republicans joined with Democrats to vote to proceed with the trial on Tuesday, the 56-44 vote was far from the two-thirds threshold of 67 votes needed for conviction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/convict-donald-trump-or-face-dire-democracy-damage-prosecutors-say-101613090603132.html
12-02-2021||World||Biden clear about restoring compassion, order to immigration system: White House||US President Joe Biden has been very clear about "restoring compassion and order" to the country's immigration system, the White House said on Thursday and noted that a series of executive actions signed by him in the last few weeks are just the beginning."The executive actions signed thus far are just the beginning,” a White House spokesperson told PTI."President Biden has been very clear about restoring compassion and order to our immigration system, and correcting the divisive, inhumane, and immoral policies of the past four years, which is our focus in the coming weeks and months," the spokesperson said.The spokesperson was responding to a question on an influential immigration advocacy group representing Indian-Americans urging the Biden administration not to issue the most sought-after H-1B work visa to any individual born in India, till the time the discriminatory country-cap on green cards or permanent legal residency is removed.In a statement, Aman Kapoor, president of Immigration Voice called on the Biden administration to use its authority under INA Section 212(f) to exclude any new individual born in India who are not currently in the United States legally from obtaining a new H-1B visa for the first time in Fiscal Year 2022.The White House, however, did not say if the administration intends to issue such an order. At the same time, it has committed itself to a comprehensive immigration reform which is humane and compassionate. In his immigration reform bill sent to the Congress, the White House has proposed elimination of country-quota in allocation of green cards, a major demand of organisations like Immigration Voice and Indian IT professionals.The non-partisan Congressional Research Service says that this "discriminatory and arbitrary" cap on the number of Indian nationals who can receive lawful permanent residency each year has created a backlog of over one million people waiting for green cards, with a wait time of over 195 years, Kapoor said, adding that in fiscal year 2030, the line is expected to grow to 436 years."A majority of the Green Card backlog consists of women and children, who will eventually die in these backlogs. Needless to say, the per-country limits on the employment-based green card system are, in fact, 100 per cent an 'Indian Exclusion Act'. In reality, this implies a de facto ban on employment-based green cards for any new Indian national entering the United States on an H-1B visa,” Kapoor said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-clear-about-restoring-compassion-order-to-immigration-system-white-house-101613089424577.html
12-02-2021||World||Myanmar committee to take action against police officer who fired live ammunition during anti-coup protests||The Committee Representing Pyidaungsu Hluttaw (CRPH) have announced that they will take action against the police officer who fired live ammunition during protests against the military of Myanmar on Tuesday, which seriously injured a 19-year-old protester.According to Myanmar Times, the committee, which was elected by the populace during the 2020 general elections, has issued a statement strongly condemning the security forces' violent crackdown on the protesters, likening the act to that of a crime.In the statement, the CRPH affirmed that action will be taken against the police official in accordance with the country's laws.19-year-old Ma Myat Thet Khine was critically wounded after being shot in the head by a police officer who had resorted to using live ammunition during widescale protests against the military coup in Myanmar.Meanwhile, the injured demonstrator's elder sister has pledged to keep protesting until the 'military dictatorship' is removed from the country, reported NHK WorldKhine turned 20 the day after the shooting. Doctors said a bullet penetrated her head and a decision on an operation will be made soon.On February 1, Myanmar's military staged a coup and overthrew the democratically elected government of National League for Democracy (NLD), alleging voter fraud in the November 2020 elections that saw the NLD securing a resounding victory.The military detained several political officials and activists including State Counsellor Aung San Suu Kyi and President Win Myint, and declared a one-year emergency.Around 100 protesters were arrested on Tuesday after police cracked down on protesters who had staged demonstrations against the forceful military takeover in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/myanmar-committee-to-take-action-against-police-officer-who-fired-live-ammunition-during-anti-coup-protests-101613090146187.html
12-02-2021||World||Biden wants to quadruple refugee admissions set by Trump||The Biden administration wants to raise refugee admissions to 62,500 for the current budget year, overriding former President Donald Trump’s record-low limit of 15,000, a U.S. official and others said Thursday.The official and others with knowledge of the plans spoke on condition on anonymity because they were not authorized to discuss the matter publicly.Trump set the ceiling in October when the 2021 budget year started, and it runs until September 30. President Joe Biden's proposal of 62,500 would replace that, and the president has already announced plans to raise admissions to twice that amount in 2022.President Joe Biden is said to have wanted to raise the cap immediately but not set the target as high as 125,000 people because that would be unrealistic to reach with the coronavirus pandemic and the work needed to rebuild the refugee program that had been largely dismantled by the Trump administration.Biden by law must submit his proposal to Congress and consult with lawmakers before making a presidential determination. The U.S. State Department confirmed that it sent the president's report to Congress, starting that process.“We are working with Congress to arrange these consultations and are eager to engage the appropriate members," the department said in a statement.Earlier this month, Biden announced plans to up admissions in 2022 to 125,000, which would surpass the ceiling of 110,00 set by President Barack Obama before he left office and be more than eight times the amount set by Trump before he left office.Biden, through executive order, also called for rescinding Trump-era rules that resulted in excessive vetting of applicants, expanding capacity for adjudicating applications for refugee applications, and other steps.It will take time to rebuild the pipeline. More than one-third of U.S. resettlement offices were forced to close over the past four years with the drop in refugee arrivals and hundreds of workers were let go.Refugee admissions are determined by the president each year, and federal funding for resettlement agencies is based on the number of people they resettle in a given year.Still, advocates have applauded Biden's plans, saying it sends a signal to the world that he intends to restore the United States' humanitarian leadership.Trump targeted the refugee program under his anti-immigration policies, dropping admissions yearly until they reached a record low of 15,000. Historically, the average has been 95,000 under both Republican and Democratic administrations.The Trump administration defended the cuts as protecting American jobs during the pandemic and said it sought to have refugees settle closer to their home countries while working on solving the crises that caused them to flee.Biden, who co-sponsored legislation creating the refugee program in 1980, has said reopening the doors to refugees is “how we will restore the soul of our nation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-wants-to-quadruple-refugee-admissions-set-by-trump-101613086926872.html
12-02-2021||World||Biden hails deal for 200 million Covid vaccine doses, faster shipments||President Joe Biden announced that the U.S. has finished deals for 100 million additional vaccine doses each from Pfizer Inc. and Moderna Inc., and that the companies would deliver new and existing orders quicker than projected.The delivery dates for the orders, which the administration had already said it would place, were moved up to the end of July, Biden said in remarks Thursday at the National Institutes of Health in Maryland -- although Moderna said only that July was a “goal.” Delivery of a previously ordered batch was also sped up, to the end of May from the end of June, Biden said.“We’ve now purchased enough vaccine supply to vaccinate all Americans,” Biden said in a speech, while warning of the ongoing threat of the virus. “We remain in the teeth of this pandemic.”The delivery timeline, if met, would give the U.S. enough doses for 300 million people by the end of July -- a number that could increase if other vaccine candidates, such as one from Johnson & Johnson, are approved. Administration of the vaccines, however, could stretch into late summer and early fall.Biden delivered his speech at the NIH while wearing a mask, thanking medical workers and researchers for sacrifices they and their families have made during the course of the crisis. He also leveled harsh criticism of former President Donald Trump’s handling of the vaccine program.“My predecessor, to be very blunt about it, did not do his job,” he said, accusing Trump of not purchasing enough doses of vaccine, doing nothing to set up shipments to pharmacies, not mobilizing enough health-care workers to inject it and not establishing enough sites around the country to provide inoculations.The White House said on Jan. 26 that it planned to order 200 million more total doses of the vaccines made by Moderna and Pfizer. The new orders bring the government’s total order from those companies to 600 million doses. Both vaccines require a two-dose regimen, making that enough for 300 million people.The orders were placed by exercising options in contracts negotiated with each company by the previous administration. Specific terms of the new orders weren’t disclosed, and the administration didn’t say what, if anything, it offered the companies in exchange for faster deliveries.In a written statement, Moderna confirmed the order and said it had already supplied 41 million doses to the U.S., and is on track to reach 100 million doses shipped by the end of March.“Moderna is working with its domestic manufacturing partners and the U.S. FDA to continue to explore ways to accelerate delivery, with the goal of providing this new order of 100 million doses before the end of July 2021,” the company said in the statement.Pfizer did not immediately respond to a request for comment.‘Don’t Rewrite History’Former Trump administration officials reject Biden’s criticism, pointing out that the vaccination program Biden inherited has him easily on pace to meet his goal of administering 100 million shots in his first 100 days. The U.S. is averaging about 1.5 million doses administered daily, data compiled by Bloomberg show.Trump “put you on a track to reach the goal of 100 Million doses in 100 days,” Alyssa Farah, a former communications director for Trump, tweeted after Biden’s remarks. “Celebrate it, don’t rewrite history.”The Biden administration has been touting the latest order from Pfizer and Moderna since its initial announcement, saying it would give the U.S. enough vaccine by the end of summer to inoculate every adult, before Thursday’s announcement of a faster delivery schedule.Johnson & Johnson is seeking an emergency clearance for its one-shot vaccine, and the Food and Drug Administration could grant it as soon as this month. Biden has said he would rather end up with surplus vaccine than not enough. The one-shot vaccine doesn’t require as stringent storage conditions as Moderna and Pfizer, and could be used to access remote communities more easily.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-hails-deal-for-200-million-covid-vaccine-doses-faster-shipments-101613086663690.html
12-02-2021||World||6 killed in 130-vehicle pileup on icy Texas interstate||A massive crash involving more than 130 vehicles on an icy Texas interstate left at least six people dead and dozens injured Thursday amid a winter storm that dropped freezing rain, sleet and snow on parts of the U.S.At the scene of the crash on Interstate 35 near downtown Fort Worth, a tangle of semitrailers, cars and trucks had smashed into each other and had turned every which way, with some vehicles on top of others.“There were multiple people that were trapped within the confines of their vehicles and requiring the use of hydraulic rescue equipment to successfully extricate them,” said Fort Worth Fire Chief Jim Davis.At least 65 people sought care at hospitals, with 36 of them taken by ambulance from the crash site, including several with critical injuries, said Matt Zavadsky, spokesman for MedStar, which provides the ambulance service for the area.The crash happened about 6 a.m., as many hospital and emergency workers were heading to and from work, so some of those involved were health care workers and emergency responders, including police officers, officials said.Zavadsky said his crews carry a sand and salt mixture in the ambulances, which they began using at the scene. At one point, he said, one of the ambulances was hit, but it sustained only minor damage and the crew members were fine.“The roadway was so treacherous from the ice that several of the first responders were falling on the scene,” Zavadsky said.The ice storm came as a polar vortex — swirling air that normally sits over the Earth's poles — has moved near the U.S.-Canada border, resulting in colder weather farther south than usual, said Steve Goss, a meteorologist with the National Weather Service’s Storm Prediction Center in Norman, Oklahoma.“As a result we’re getting unusually or unseasonably cold air that’s spilling south across a good portion of the United States east of the Rocky Mountains,” he said.In Tennessee, police responded to about 30 traffic collisions and some flights were delayed at Memphis International Airport after freezing rain and sleet fell. In Kentucky, the governor declared a state of emergency to free up funding and help agencies coordinate as they responded to reports of slick roads and downed power lines. And in southern Indiana, schools and government offices closed.In suburban Austin, more than two dozen vehicles were involved in a pileup on an icy highway, and five people were taken to a hospital, emergency officials said.Goss said that smaller disturbances moving through the polar jet stream will bring “a shot of winter weather” into southern portions of the country.He said some areas that don't normally get snowfall will likely see heavy amounts over the next several days. He said current estimates show some areas of the southern Plains could get a foot or more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/6-killed-in-130-vehicle-pileup-on-icy-texas-interstate-101613086483887.html
12-02-2021||World||Biden says Trump 'did not do his job' on Covid vaccine program, urges patience||US President Joe Biden on Thursday said the coronavirus vaccination program he inherited from Donald Trump was in "much worse shape" than he had expected, while urging patience and said the government has bought 200 million more doses."We're not going to have everything fixed for a while, but we're going to fix it," Biden said in remarks at the National Institutes of Health in Bethesda, Maryland.With demand for the vaccine far outstripping supply, Americans are struggling to get appointments for their inoculations, leaving Biden with an acute problem less than a month after taking over from Trump.Biden said Trump, who spent his last two months in office in a futile effort to overturn the results of the Nov. 3 presidential election that he lost, did not order enough vaccine and did not do enough to get people lined up to get vaccinated.He said the vaccine program he inherited was in "much worse shape" than he had anticipated and that his team had been misled about the vaccine supply."While scientists did their job in discovering vaccines in record time, my predecessor - I’ll be very blunt about it - did not do his job in getting ready for the massive challenge of vaccinating hundreds of millions," Biden said.A Trump representative did not immediately respond to a request for reaction to Biden's comments. Trump had expressed pride in the speed of the vaccine development on his watch.Biden said the US government has signed contracts for 100 million doses of the Moderna vaccine and 100 million more from Pfizer."We appreciate the confidence that the US government has demonstrated in our Covid-19 Vaccine," Moderna CEO Stéphane Bancel said in a press release.Biden said the US coronavirus death toll is likely to reach 500,000 next month. He urged Americans to wear masks to prevent the spread."We've now purchased enough vaccine to vaccinate all Americans," Biden said. He said the United States, which has a population of about 330 million, was on track to have 300 million doses by the end of July.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-says-trump-did-not-do-his-job-on-covid-vaccine-program-urges-patience-101613085090567.html
12-02-2021||World||California now has more Covid-19 deaths than New York||California has now surpassed New York as the American state with the most coronavirus deaths. More than 45,000 people died from Covid-19 in California as of Tuesday. New York, severely hit in the early stages of the pandemic last spring, reported 44,693 lives lost, according to a Reuters tally.The World Health Organization (WHO) warned on Thursday that a decline in overall virus cases conceals the increasing numbers of outbreaks and community spread involving new variants, with a strain first identified in South Africa late last year now seen in 19 countries.German Chancellor Angela Merkel said coronavirus mutations will likely become dominant across the country, threatening to derail progress as a national lockdown was extended until March 7.The Irish government said about 22% of close contacts are now catching the virus, double the rate in previous waves, suggesting that the new variants are more infectious.Former US president Donald Trump’s disdain for science, coupled with cuts to the health programme, impeded US response to the pandemic, a report in the UK’s medical journal The Lancet said. Scientists found that 40% of US deaths in 2020 from Covid-19 would have been avoided if the country’s death rate had been closer to that of its G7 peers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/california-now-has-more-covid-19-deaths-than-new-york-101613082389363.html
12-02-2021||World||Democrats wrap impeachment case, urging Trump be convicted||Democrats rested their impeachment case against Donald Trump on Thursday, saying he incited insurrection after losing re-election and is so dangerous he should be barred from holding office again.After two days of presentations, including hours of graphic video from the pro-Trump riot that swept the Capitol January 6, Democratic impeachment managers called on senators to vote for conviction."We humbly, humbly ask you to convict president Trump for the crime (of) which he is overwhelmingly guilty," Representative Joe Neguse said."If you don't, if we pretend this didn't happen, or worse, if we let it go unanswered, who is to say it won't happen again?"Trump's defense lawyers will deliver their case on Friday, arguing that Trump cannot be held personally responsible for the deadly assault on Congress.They also argue that the trial itself is unconstitutional because Trump is now out of office, although the Senate rejected this argument earlier this week.In a prebuttal of those arguments, Democratic impeachment leader Jamie Raskin told senators to apply "common sense," pointing out that Trump stood by, doing nothing, for two hours as his supporters rampaged through Congress."Why did president Trump not tell his supporters to stop the attack on the Capitol as soon as he learned about it?" Raskin asked. "As our constitutional commander in chief, why did he do nothing to send help?"Earlier, President Joe Biden said the video evidence against his 74-year-old predecessor presented at the Senate trial may change "some minds."But despite what even some Republicans have said was a strong prosecution, Trump retains an unshakeable grip on the party, making conviction highly unlikely. It would take a two-thirds majority, meaning 17 Republicans would need to join the Senate's 50 Democrats.'Future of democracy'The mayhem on January 6 erupted after Trump held a large rally near the White House, insisting falsely, as he had done since losing to Biden in November, that he was cheated.Instructed by Trump to march on Congress, where lawmakers were at that moment certifying Biden's election, the crowd smashed through police lines, then went on the rampage.The chaos left five people dead, including one woman shot after she invaded the Capitol and one policeman killed by the crowd.Video footage played by impeachment managers showed the mob hunting down opponents of Trump and senior figures, including then vice president Mike Pence, having to flee to safety.The defense will stress that Trump did not expressly tell his fans to commit violence, but Raskin pointed out that the Republican had been stoking anger and encouraging extremism ever since Election Day -- and even before."This pro-Trump insurrection did not spring out of thin air," Raskin said. "This was not the first time Donald Trump had inflamed and incited a mob."Raskin said it was imperative the Senate convict Trump and bar him from running for the White House again in 2024."Is there any political leader in this room who believes that if he's ever allowed by the Senate to get back into the Oval Office Donald Trump would stop inciting violence to get his way?" Raskin asked."Would you bet the future of your democracy on that?Raskin also dismissed claims by Trump's lawyers that the president did not incite the riot but was just exercising his free speech rights under the First Amendment of the Constitution.Calling this a "smokescreen," Raskin said "nobody can incite a riot."First Amendment doesn't protect it," he said. "Nobody in America would be protected by the First Amendment if they did all the things that Donald Trump did."Republicans stand by TrumpBiden said he did not watch any of the trial live but had seen news coverage of Wednesday's heart-rending video footage."My guess is some minds may be changed," Biden told reporters in the White House.Press Secretary Jen Psaki said Biden, who has been trying to stop the trial from overshadowing his push for a huge economic stimulus package and the fight against Covid-19, was not intending to predict the outcome.Republican Senator Bill Cassidy of Louisiana said video footage shown by House managers on Wednesday was "powerful," but "how that influences final decisions remains to be seen."Other Republican senators have clearly already made up their minds and do not intend to break with Trump, who has threatened to derail their careers."The 'Not Guilty' vote is growing after today," tweeted Republican Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina. "I think most Republicans found the presentation by the House Managers offensive and absurd."Republican Senator Josh Hawley of Missouri echoed the argument of Trump's defense lawyers that it is unconstitutional to try a former president."You're not going to get anything but condemnation from me for what happened with those criminals at the Capitol on January 6," Hawley told Fox News. "But that doesn't make the trial any more legitimate than it is, which is totally illegitimate -- no basis in the Constitution."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-impeachment-house-democrats-finish-making-their-case-101613079108992.html
12-02-2021||World||President Joe Biden thinks impeachment video may have swayed 'some minds'||President Joe Biden said Thursday he had watched coverage of Donald Trump's impeachment trial and thought “some minds may have been changed” after prosecutors showed gripping and graphic video of the Jan. 6 siege of the U.S. Capitol.Biden told reporters in the Oval Office that while he did not view any of the Senate trial live, he had seen the morning news. “I think the Senate has a very important job to complete,” the president said.White House press secretary Jen Psaki said later that “the footage was just a reminder of how shocked and saddened” Biden was on the day rioters stormed the Capitol.It was a notable shift in tone after the new president spent much of the week doing his best to avoid the issue. And it came after House prosecutors aired never-before-seen footage from the violent insurrection that showed police officers being beaten by the rioters and presented a fuller picture of the precarious situation at the Capitol on the day when Congress was meeting to affirm Biden's victory.Biden had insisted previously that he would not watch the proceedings, and for much of this week, Psaki dodged questions about the trial. She had declined to offer Biden’s opinion on whether the trial was constitutional or about the outcome because, as she said, the president is “not a pundit."While expanding on Biden’s views about the trial, she refused on Thursday to weigh in on Trump’s culpability.She said Biden, in his new comments, “was not intending to give a projection or a prediction, but was just giving a very human and emotional response” to what many were feeling on that day. Pressed on whether Biden believes the Senate should convict Trump, an outcome that's seen as unlikely, Psaki avoided answering directly. She said the president “knows there’s a role for Congress to play and a role for him to play."It reflects the message Biden's team has tried to drive home: The focus is on governing and not the historic events unfolding at the other end of Pennsylvania Avenue.Biden’s calendar this week was meant as counterprogramming to the trial, with events on pandemic aid and vaccine distribution.Privately, White House aides said Biden would gain little politically from weighing in on the trial and that any comment he makes would draw the focus away from his predecessor’s misconduct and onto Biden’s own views.They said that staying above the fray would allow Biden to focus on his COVID-19 relief package and remain on cordial terms with Republicans as he tries to steer the $1.9 trillion bill through Congress.Among some Biden aides, there is a sense he will need to weigh in at the end of the trial, particularly if an expected acquittal prompts Trump to break his silence and further inflame a deeply divided nation.Until now, the White House’s public approach to the proceedings has been: Impeachment? What impeachment?Psaki at times has all but twisted herself in knots at the White House podium to dodge saying much of anything about the trial. "He’s not going to opine on back-and-forth arguments,” she said Tuesday.On Wednesday, she insisted that Biden would “not be a commentator” and would instead focus on the pandemic.The president met with Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen and business leaders on Tuesday to push for his economic recovery package. On Wednesday, he announced sanctions on Myanmar's military rulers in the wake of a coup and then he visited the Pentagon. On Thursday, he planned a trip to the National Institutes of Health to discuss the nation’s vaccination program.It's all in keeping with Biden’s overall approach to Trump throughout the 2020 campaign: avoid getting bogged down in each new attack or controversy from Trump and focused on his own overarching message about a return to competent leadership in the White House. It also reflects a belief among White House aides that the chattering classes in Washington and on Twitter are often far removed from the realities of everyday Americans.“I think the biggest news story for most Americans is getting the virus under control, and President Biden has shown, both on the campaign trail and in the White House, that his focus is what the American people are waking up thinking about every day,” said Ben LaBolt, a former Obama campaign press secretary.With the Senate occupied by impeachment, White House legislative affairs staffers were working with House committee members on the COVID-19 legislation.But while the administration’s outward focus was on the pandemic, the trial was inescapable within the West Wing.Televisions were tuned to the proceedings. Aides kept one another updated and briefed the president. Preliminary work was underway for Biden to weigh in at the end of the trial in an effort to lower the temperature of a divided nation.Trump's Twitter account has been suspended and he so far has followed aides' advice to keep a low profile for fear of endangering an acquittal.In Trump’s previous impeachment, a year ago, he relentlessly weighed in on the trial on Twitter and mixed in a variety of events. The prior president to be impeached, Bill Clinton, also made a show of focusing on his day job, scheduling a flurry of events opposite the 1999 trial that ended up improving his approval ratings.The clearest historical precedent for the moment in which Biden finds himself may be that of President Gerald Ford seeking to unify the nation after the damaging Watergate scandal and Richard Nixon's resignation. Like Biden, Ford sought to move the country past his predecessor in part by ignoring him and focusing on his own agenda. In a move that was controversial at the time but one that presidential historian Jeff Engel said was ultimately seen as beneficial for the national mood, Ford pardoned Nixon.Engel suggested that Biden continue to focus his message on Americans, rather than wade into fights on Capitol Hill.“Joe Biden, I think, will by his very nature feel responsible for and speak to Americans of all stripes," he said. “That’s not going to cure our problems by any measure, but it will provide a balm, if you will, to allow things to quiet down.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/president-joe-biden-thinks-impeachment-video-may-have-swayed-some-minds-101613078361773.html
12-02-2021||World||Facebook touts fighting abuse during US Capitol attack||Facebook on Thursday said it had tackled abuse on its network surrounding the deadly attack on the US Capitol by supporters of former president Donald Trump.The social network, which has been criticized for allowing some users to orchestrate violence that played out on January 6, also said it fed information to law enforcement agencies during the insurrection."We were monitoring the assault in real time and made appropriate referrals to law enforcement to assist their efforts to bring those responsible to account," Facebook vice president of content policy Monika Bickert said during a call with reporters.Also Read | Capitol rioters acted on Trump's 'orders,' Democrats say in impeachment trialFacebook has been helping police identify people who posted photos of themselves from the scene, according to Bickert.The social network released an update on content removed in the final three months of last year, saying tightened policies and improved artificial intelligence helped it fight abuses while the US election came to a violent crescendo."There was a lot that we were doing in the run up to make sure that our services would not be abused," Bickert said."Then there's also what we were doing with law enforcement. That's in the run up to the violence; throughout the violence, and afterward."Graphic video of the attack and evidence of Trump's role in encouraging the violence have been shown at his ongoing Senate impeachment trial.Trump, who is accused of inciting insurrection, is expected to avoid conviction due to Republican support in the Senate.Facebook reported it had taken down 6.4 million pieces of organized hate content, up from 4 million in the previous quarter, and 26.9 million pieces of content violating hate speech rules in general.At Facebook-owned Instagram, 308,000 pieces of organized hate content were removed, up from 224,000 in the previous quarter, while the amount of removed hate speech content in general was up only slightly to 6.6 million items.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/facebook-touts-fighting-abuse-during-us-capitol-attack-101613078206632.html
12-02-2021||World||US slaps sanctions on Myanmar in response to military coup||The United States on Thursday imposed sanctions on Myanmar's acting president and several other military officers and warned the generals there could be more economic punishment as Washington responds to the military coup.The US Treasury Department said it targeted eight people, including the defense minister, three companies in the jade and gems sector, and updated sanctions on the top two military officials, accusing them of playing a leading role in overthrowing Myanmar's democratically-elected government.But Washington stopped short of including the entire Myanmar Economic Holdings Limited (MEHL) and Myanmar Economic Corporation (MEC), the military's conglomerates that are prevalent throughout Myanmar's economy.President Joe Biden on Wednesday approved an executive order for new sanctions on those responsible for the coup in Myanmar, also known as Burma, that ousted the civilian-led government and detained elected leader and Nobel laureate Aung San Suu Kyi."The February 1 coup was a direct assault on Burma's transition to democracy and the rule of law," Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen said in a statement."We are also prepared to take additional action should Burma's military not change course. If there is more violence against peaceful protesters, the Burmese military will find that today's sanctions are just the first," Yellen added.Thursday's action designated Commander-in-Chief of the Myanmar military Min Aung Hlaing and Deputy Commander-in-Chief Soe Win under Biden's executive order. Both were previously hit with sanctions in 2019 over allegations of abuses against Rohingya Muslims and other minorities.Others listed were six members of the National Defense and Security Council and four military officials announced as members of the State Administration Council by the military, including Defense Minister Mya Tun Oo.The three companies named by Washington - Myanmar Ruby Enterprise, Myanmar Imperial Jade Co, LTD, and Cancri (Gems and Jewellery) Co, LTD - were identified by a U.N. mission on Myanmar in 2019 as part of the MEHL conglomerate.The White House said the sanctions do not need to be permanent, urging Myanmar's military to "immediately restore power to the democratically elected government, end the state of emergency, release all those unjustly detained, and ensure peaceful protesters are not met with violence."The Biden administration has been working to form an international response to the crisis, including by working with allies in Asia with closer ties to Myanmar and its military.John Lichtefeld, vice president at Washington-based strategic consultancy The Asia Group, said Thursday’s announcements were an "opening salvo putting the military on notice," adding that sanctions against the MEHL and MEC conglomerates may still occur."I think this is a signal to the military that the United States is serious and has a very wide range of tools at its disposal. The range of actors potentially implicated by this order is exceptionally broad, even though the order itself does not directly sanction any individual or entities," he said.Suu Kyi's party won a 2015 election but the transition to democracy was brought to a halt by the coup that ousted her government as it was preparing to begin its second term after her National League for Democracy (NLD) swept a Nov. 8 election.The military cited election fraud as justification for its takeover. The electoral commission dismissed accusations of fraud.Also on Thursday, the US Agency for International Development (USAID) said it is immediately redirecting $42.2 million of assistance away from work that would have benefited Myanmar's government.Protesters have taken to the streets in cities and towns in the largest demonstrations in Myanmar for more than a decade, reviving memories of almost half a century of direct army rule, punctuated with bloody army crackdowns, until the military began relinquishing some power in 2011.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-slaps-sanctions-on-myanmar-in-response-to-military-coup-101613077751163.html
12-02-2021||World||Snowstorms aim for US east while fierce cold grips Texas||A parade of snowstorms is threatening to roll through the Eastern US over the next few days while bitter cold grips the heart of the country, driving temperatures below freezing all the way to Houston.A system will sweep out of the Ohio Valley Friday, bringing freezing rain and ice across the central Appalachian Mountains and likely passing south of Washington. Another one will work its way up the East Coast late Saturday into Sunday, but it isn’t clear whether it will bring rain, sleet, snow or a frigid mixture. And a third storm will arrive in the Northeast, hitting New York and elsewhere on Monday to Tuesday, according to the National Weather Service.Temperatures, meanwhile, are forecast to be 30 to 40 degrees Fahrenheit (17 to 22 Celsius) below normal through the central US as frigid air spills down from the Arctic. In the Northeast, where a gentle snow fell early Thursday, temperatures will be 10 to 15 degrees lower through next week. Even in Houston, the mercury will fall to 28 degrees Sunday and 12 in Dallas.“The core of the Arctic air is just sitting over the north central US,” said Dan Pydynowski, a meteorologist with AccuWeather Inc. “It will be diving southward down the Plains all the way right into Texas.”The Electric Reliability Council of Texas, which oversees the state’s main power grid, warned of record power demand due to extreme temperatures. The average spot price for electricity in North Texas climbed 738% to $289.40 a megawatt-hour Thursday at 2 p.m. local time, after much of the region spiked briefly to about $1,900 earlier, according to data compiled by Genscape Inc. If that price holds, it will be the highest since Nov. 22, 2019.​Prices for natural gas, propane and heating oil, fuels used to heat homes, are surging, too. Natural gas for next-day delivery to Houston and Chicago climbed to the highest level in seven years. The frigid temperatures are also boosting the risk of so-called freeze-offs, or well shutdowns that occur because of liquids freezing inside pipelines. Demand for propane has surged to its highest since 2004.​Highs in New York will linger in the low- to mid-30s through the weekend as a series of storms pushes west to east across the US“We are in an unsettled weather pattern,” said Brian Ciemnecki, a Weather Service meteorologist in New York. “The main story is the cold and the unsettled pattern.”Propane stockpiles have tumbled amid the cold, with inventories of the fuel sliding to the lowest since April 2019 last week, government data released Wednesday showed. The drawdown will likely support even higher prices, which may dent exports and prompt petrochemical plants to use a cheaper feedstock like ethane.The cold snap stems from a sudden stratospheric warming event high above the North Pole, which led to a weakening of the polar vortex, the girdle of winds that traps frigid air in the Arctic. Making the situation worse is a block in the atmosphere over Greenland that’s holding the cold in the US It also weakened the Pacific jet stream, which had been keeping winter mild through much of December and January.The only places in the contiguous US that will be able to avoid the chill will be parts of California and Florida. The cold will get to the east and west, probably bringing snow to Seattle this week and potentially the East Coast next week.There are indications the deepest cold will begin to relax by February 20. By March and April the weather could begin to moderate and the US could see a milder spring.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/snowstorms-aim-for-us-east-while-fierce-cold-grips-texas-101613077279396.html
12-02-2021||World||Capitol rioters acted on Trump's 'orders,' Democrats say in impeachment trial||House Democrats prosecuting Donald Trump's impeachment said Thursday the Capitol invaders believed they were acting on "the president's orders” and reflected his violent rhetoric when they stormed the building aiming to stop Congress from certifying Democrat Joe Biden's election.The prosecutors described in stark, personal terms the horror they faced that day and showed the many public and explicit instructions Trump gave his supporters — both in the weeks before the Jan. 6 attack and at his midday rally that unleashed the mob on the Capitol. Rioters in videos, some posted to social media by themselves, talked about how they were doing it all for Trump.“We were invited here,” said one. "Trump sent us,” said another. “He’ll be happy. We’re fighting for Trump.” Five people died.“They truly believed that the whole intrusion was at the president’s orders,” said Rep. Diana DeGette of Colorado. “The president told them to be there.”Also Read | Chilling video clips of Capitol siege aired at Trump impeachment trialProsecutors were wrapping up their two days of opening arguments on Thursday, with Trump's defense taking the floor on Friday. The entire process could wind up with a vote by this weekend. The Democrats, with little hope of conviction by two-thirds of the Senate, are making their most graphic case to the American public, while Trump's lawyers are focused on legal rather than emotional or historic questions, hoping to get it all behind him as quickly as possible.At the White House, President Joe Biden said he believed “some minds may be changed” after senators saw chilling security video Wednesday of the deadly insurrection at the Capitol, including of rioters searching menacingly for House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Vice President Mike Pence.Biden said he didn’t watch any of the previous day’s proceedings live but later saw news coverage.This second impeachment trial, on the charge of incitement of insurrection, has echoes of last year's impeachment over the Ukraine matter, as prosecutors warn senators that left unchecked Trump poses a danger to the civic order. Even out of office, the former president holds influence over large swaths of voters.The prosecutors on Thursday drew a direct line from his repeated comments condoning and even celebrating violence — praising “both sides” after the 2017 outbreak at the white supremacist rally in Charlottesville, Virginia, and urging his rally crowd last month to go to the Capitol and fight for his presidency.“There’s a pattern staring us in the face,” said Rep. Jamie Raskin, D-Md., the lead prosecutor.“When Donald Trump tells the crowd as he did on January 6 to fight like hell, or you won’t have a country anymore. He meant for them to fight like hell.”Trump lawyers will argue later this week that his words were protected by the Constitution’s First Amendment and just a figure of speech.Though most of the Senate jurors seem to have made up their minds, making Trump’s acquittal likely, the never-before-seen audio and video released Wednesday is now a key exhibit in Trump’s impeachment trial as lawmakers prosecuting the case argue Trump should be convicted of inciting the siege.Also Read | Democrats seek to show Trump was indifferent to Capitol assaultSenators sat riveted as the jarring video played in the chamber. Senators shook their heads, folded their arms and furrowed their brows. Screams from the audio and video filled the Senate chamber. Republican Sen. James Lankford of Oklahoma bent his head at one point, another GOP colleague putting his hand on his arm in comfort.Videos of the siege have been circulating since the day of the riot, but the graphic compilation shown to senators Wednesday amounted to a more complete narrative, a moment-by-moment retelling of one of the nation’s most alarming days. In addition to the evident chaos and danger, it offered fresh details on the attackers, scenes of police heroism and cries of distress. And it underscored how dangerously close the rioters came to the nation’s leaders, shifting the focus of the trial from an academic debate about the Constitution to a raw retelling of the assault.The footage showed the mob smashing into the building, rioters engaging in hand-to-hand combat with police and audio of Capitol police officers pleading for back-up. Rioters were seen roaming the halls chanting “Hang Mike Pence,” and eerily singing out “Where's Nancy?” in search for Pelosi.Pence, who had been presiding over a session to certify Biden’s election victory over Trump — thus earning Trump’s censure — was shown being rushed to safety, where he sheltered in an office with his family just 100 feet from the rioters. Pelosi was seen being evacuated from the complex as her staff hid behind doors in her suite of offices.The goal of the presentation was to cast Trump not as an innocent bystander but rather as the “inciter in chief” who spent months spreading falsehoods about the election.“This attack never would have happened, but for Donald Trump,” Rep. Madeleine Dean, one of the impeachment managers, said as she choked back emotion. “And so they came, draped in Trump’s flag, and used our flag, the American flag, to batter and to bludgeon.”Trump's lawyers are likely to blame the rioters themselves for the violence.The first president to face an impeachment trial after leaving office, Trump is also the first to be twice impeached.His lawyers also say he cannot be convicted because he is already gone from the White House. Even though the Senate rejected that argument in Tuesday's vote to proceed to the trial, the legal issue could resonate with Senate Republicans eager to acquit Trump without being seen as condoning his behavior.While six Republicans joined with Democrats to vote to proceed with the trial on Tuesday, the 56-44 vote was far from the two-thirds threshold of 67 votes needed for conviction.Minds did not seem to be changing Wednesday, even after senators watched the graphic video.Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, who was among those leading the effort to challenge the Electoral College tally, said, “The president’s rhetoric is at times overheated, but this is not a referendum on whether you agree with everything the president says or tweets.”Trump's second impeachment trial is expected to diverge from the lengthy, complicated affair of a year ago. In that case, Trump was charged with having privately pressured Ukraine to dig up dirt on Biden, then a Democratic rival for the presidency.The Democratic-led House impeached the president swiftly, one week after the attack.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/impeachment-trial-capitol-rioters-acted-on-trump-s-orders-democrats-say-in-trial-101613076817867.html
12-02-2021||India||Assam Cong sounds poll bugle with yatra from Srimanta Sankardev’s birthplace||The Congress in Assam sounded its poll bugle on Friday for the coming assembly election by launching the ‘Asom Bosaon Ahok’ (Let’s Save Assam) campaign with a bus ‘yatra’ from Borduwa Than, the birthplace of Srimanta Sankardev, the 15th century saint-cum-social reformer.Several Congress leaders including party in-charge for Assam Jitendra Singh, state unit president Ripun Bora, Lok Sabha MPs Gaurav Gogoi and Pradyut Bordoloi and former ministers Rakibul Hussain and Gautam Bora were present on the occasion to flag off the ‘yatra’.“The aim of the ‘yatra’ is to listen to every section of the society-poor, women, youth, unemployed and people from every sphere of life. We are happy that many are coming forward to share their issues with us,” said Singh.Talking to reporters, Bordoloi, who heads the party’s campaign committee, said that the aim of the ‘yatra’ is to reach every household in the state and seek the public’s support to save Assam from the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party-led coalition government.“The BJP has failed in its promise to protect community identity and honour of Assam. During the 15 years of Congress rule under Tarun Gogoi, we had worked hard to bring peace and stability to Assam. BJP wants to push Assam into turbulence with their divisive agenda,” said Ripun Bora.Assam goes to polls in April-May.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-cong-sounds-poll-bugle-with-yatra-from-srimanta-sankardev-s-birthplace-101613150876998.html
12-02-2021||India||Railways to roll out first 500 Tejas sleeper coaches in FY 22||The Indian Railways will roll out its first Tejas sleeper-type trains from February 15 onward with the introduction of the Agartala Rajdhani Special train, the ministry announced on Friday.The ministry has decided to replace the rake of Agartala-Anand Vihar Terminal Special Rajdhani Express with Tejas Sleeper coaches with upgraded facilities."Provided with smart features, the coaches of this New Sleeper Type Tejas Train will offer best in the class travel experience. The start of the Tejas service is planned for February 15," a statement from the Railways said.Also read: Earthquake felt in Delhi-NCR, parts of north India"With the introduction of this modern Tejas Sleeper type train for a long-distance journey, Indian Railway is making a paradigm shift in the travel experience for the passengers, it added.It is planned that 500 such Tejas type Sleeper coaches will be manufactured at Integral Coach Factory (ICF) and Modern Coach Factory (MCF) production units of Indian Railways in FY 21-22 which will gradually replace the premium long-distance trains over Indian Railways network.The Tejas type Sleeper coaches have automatic plug door, stainless steel under-frame, bio-vacuum toilet system, air suspension bogies, fire alarm, detection and suppression system, among other smart features.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-to-roll-out-first-500-tejas-sleeper-coaches-in-fy-22-101613150503355.html
12-02-2021||India||'Discussions still on with Sri Lanka on Colombo port project': MEA||India said on Friday that discussions are still being held with Sri Lanka over Colombo’s unilateral decision to scrap a trilateral agreement for developing a key port terminal and instead hand it over to a state-run entity.The Sri Lankan government’s sudden decision this month to run the East Container Terminal (ECT) of Colombo port as a fully owned operation of the Sri Lanka Port Authority (SLPA) didn’t go down well with India and Japan, which had signed a trilateral agreement in 2019 on jointly developing the terminal.“India’s interest for participation in the Colombo port is a long-standing one since most goods handled there are from and to India,” external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava told a news briefing.Also read: India sends 22.9 mn doses of Covid-19 vaccines to 20 countries, more in pipeline“We had, in principle, agreement from the Sri Lankan government in this regard. The current government has, however, expressed a preference in engaging investors directly. I understand discussions are still underway,” he said.India responded to the latest developments in the ECT project by calling on Sri Lanka to abide by the trilateral agreement, while Japan described the Sri Lankan government’s unilateral decision as “regrettable”.Sri Lankan leaders and ministers have been quoted by the country’s media as saying that India and Japan will be allowed an opportunity to develop the West Container Terminal at Colombo port instead of ECT. Indian officials, however, say that no formal proposal has been received from Colombo in this regard.Indian envoy Gopal Baglay has held separate meetings with Sri Lankan President Gotabaya Rajapaksa, Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa and foreign minister Dinesh Gunawerdene to convey India’s position that Colombo must abide by the agreement. The Japanese envoy too has met the Sri Lankan leadership to discuss the matter.India’s Adani Group and several Japanese investors were to form a joint venture to hold 49 per cent stake in the ECT, with the majority stake in the hands of SLPA. India has informed the Sri Lankan leadership that its decision could affect investor confidence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/discussions-still-on-with-sri-lanka-on-colombo-port-project-mea-101613147592415.html
12-02-2021||India||PM Trudeau praised India's move to opt for dialogue with agitating farmers: MEA||Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau commended the Indian government’s decision to opt for dialogue to address the farmers’ protest during a phone call with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the external affairs ministry said on Friday.During their phone call on Wednesday, the two leaders had discussed “Canada and India’s commitment to democratic principles, recent protests, and the importance of resolving issues through dialogue”, according to a readout from Trudeau’s office.The statement issued by the external affairs ministry on the conversation was silent on this issue. Asked about the matter at a news briefing on Friday, external affairs minister spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said: “On the farmers’ protests, Prime Minister Trudeau commended efforts of the government of India to choose the path of dialogue as befitting in democracy.”Srivastava added: “He also acknowledged the responsibility of his government in providing protection to Indian diplomatic premises and personnel in Canada.”This was a reference to recent protests outside India’s diplomatic missions in Canada, including the presence of pro-Khalistan elements among the demonstrators. India has repeatedly taken up this issue with the Canadian side.Ties between India and Canada took a hit in December when Trudeau extended support to Indian farmers protesting against three farm laws. India pushed back against his comments, describing the protest as an internal matter and saying such remarks had the potential to damage bilateral ties.The Canadian high commissioner was also summoned to the external affairs ministry in December and served a demarche or formal diplomatic representation over Trudeau’s comments.Wednesday’s phone call between Modi and Trudeau is being seen as an effort by both sides to mend fences. The readout from Trudeau’s office said the two leaders also discussed India’s efforts in “promoting vaccine production and supply” and working together on access to vaccines.The external affairs ministry said in a statement that Trudeau informed Modi about “Canada's requirements of Covid-19 vaccines from India”. Modi assured Trudeau that “India would do its best to support Canada's vaccination efforts, just as it had done for many other countries”.Canada is among the countries that is expected get made-in-India vaccines in the coming weeks, officials have said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-trudeau-praised-india-s-move-to-opt-for-dialogue-with-agitating-farmers-mea-101613146706798.html
12-02-2021||India||India provides 2000 tonnes of rice to war-torn Syria as humanitarian aid||India is gifting 2,000 tonnes of rice to Syria to strengthen food security, the latest in a string of measures to help the war-torn country where conflict and economic collapse over the past decade has left most of the population in poverty.The rice is being delivered in response to a request for emergency humanitarian assistance from the Syrian government, the external affairs ministry said on Friday.The first consignment of 1,000 tonnes of rice was handed over by Indian ambassador Hifzur Rahman to Hussain Makhlouf, Syria’s minister of local administration and head of the Supreme Relief Committee, at Latakia port on Thursday. The remaining 1,000 tonnes is expected to reach Syria on February 18.The UN humanitarian office estimates that 80% of Syria’s population of 17.5 million currently lives in poverty, and civilians face a range of dangers, from instability, arbitrary detention and abduction, to criminality and activities of terror groups.Earlier, India gifted 10 tonnes of medicines to Syria in July last year as part of Covid-19 assistance. More than 500 Syrian nationals benefited from a camp to fit the “Jaipur foot” artificial limbs that was organised by the external affairs ministry in partnership with Bhagwan Mahaveer Viklang Sahayata Samiti in Damascus during January 2020.During the academic years 2018-19 and 2019-20, a total of 1,000 scholarships were extended to Syrian students for pursuing bachelors, masters and post-doctoral programmes in Indian universities under the “Study in India” initiative.India is also establishing a “NextGen Centre for Information Technology” in Damascus, for which preparatory work has begun.“India and Syria have historically enjoyed close and friendly relations. The government of India has always stood in solidarity with the people of Syria, and our bilateral engagement has continued apace even during the years of internal conflict there through a number of development and capacity building projects,” the external affairs ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-provides-2000-tonnes-of-rice-to-war-torn-syria-as-humanitarian-aid-101613144563911.html
12-02-2021||India||On farmers’ protest, Trudeau commended India's efforts, says MEA||Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, who had ticked off India after he supported protesting farmers last year, has commended the government's efforts in handling the protest and for choosing "the path of dialogue as befitting a democracy”, the ministry of external affairs said on Friday. In early December, a few weeks into the agitation, Trudeau had backed the protests and said that Ottawa has conveyed its concerns about the protest by Indian farmers to New Delhi. Trudeau had said that Canada will always be there to defend the rights of peaceful protests and expressed concern over the situation. MEA was quick to dismiss his remarks as “unwarranted” as they pertained to the country’s internal affairs.Last week, minister of state for external affairs V Muraleedharan said Trudeau had made a comment on the issues related to the farmers and it was conveyed to Canada that such remarks pertaining to the internal affairs of India are "unwarranted" and "unacceptable"."On farmer protest, PM Trudeau commended efforts of the Government of India to choose the path of dialogue as befitting a democracy," MEA spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said in a weekly press briefing.The Canadian prime minister also acknowledged the responsibility of his government in providing protection to Indian diplomatic personnel and premises in Canada, the MEA spokesperson said.The statement from MEA comes two days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Trudeau held a telephonic conversation on Wednesday and covered a range of issues including the coronavirus crisis. A readout issued by Trudeau's office on the telephonic talks mentioned that the farmer protests figured in the discussions, though the Indian statement had not mentioned it. "The leaders discussed Canada and India's commitment to democratic principles, recent protests, and the importance of resolving issues through dialogue," the Canadian readout said. It mentioned several other issues discussed by the two prime ministers.Thousands of farmers have been protesting at three border points on the outskirts of Delhi demanding the repeal of the three contentious farm laws cleared by Parliament in September last year.The talks between the farmers and the government have largely been inconclusive and remain in a state of deadlock as the farmers insist on a complete repeal of the laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-farmers-protest-canada-s-trudeau-commended-india-s-efforts-says-mea-101613137835167.html
12-02-2021||India||India sends 22.9 mn doses of Covid-19 vaccines to 20 countries, more in pipeline||India has rolled out nearly 23 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines to 20 countries around the world, both as grants and commercial supplies, and more will be sent to countries in Africa and Latin America in the coming weeks.The supplies under the Vaccine Maitri initiative, which began on January 21, have earned India considerable goodwill, especially in small countries such as the Commonwealth of Dominica. Most leaders of countries that received vaccines as grants have noted that India was sending out supplies even as it undertakes the world’s largest inoculation drive.Out of the total supplies, 6.47 million doses were given as grants while 16.5 million doses were provided as commercial supplies. Countries in India’s immediate neighbourhood were among the biggest beneficiaries, in keeping with the government’s “Neighbourhood First” policy.The deliveries of Covishield, the AstraZeneca vaccine made by the Serum Institute of India, have helped India pull ahead of China in what is being referred to as “vaccine diplomacy”. Chinese vaccines have been approved by only a handful of countries in the region and China has so far offered vaccines only to Pakistan and Nepal.“We will continue to take forward the global vaccine supply initiative and cover more countries in a phased manner. In the coming weeks, vaccines will be supplied to more countries in Africa, Latin America, CARICOM and Pacific Island states,” external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava told a news briefing on Friday.Beyond India’s immediate neighbourhood, vaccines have been sent as grants to countries in the Indian Ocean region, West Asia and the Caribbean.These countries include Bangladesh (two million doses), Myanmar (1.7 million doses), Nepal (one million doses), Bhutan (150,000 doses), the Maldives (100,000 doses), Mauritius (100,000 doses), Seychelles (50,000 doses), Sri Lanka (500,000 doses), Bahrain (100,000 doses), Oman (100,000 doses), Afghanistan (500,000 doses), Barbados (100,000 doses) and Dominica (70,000 doses).The countries that received commercial supplies are Brazil (two million doses), Morocco (six million doses), Bangladesh (five million doses), Myanmar (two million doses), Egypt (50,000 doses), Algeria (50,000 doses), South Africa (one million doses), Kuwait (200,000 doses) and the United Arab Emirates (200,000 doses).Srivastava declined to go into specifics on whether India will also provide vaccines to Canada, whose Prime Minister Justin Trudeau had taken up the issue with Prime Minister Narendra Modi during a phone call on Wednesday.“Decisions on these supplies will, of course, be calibrated as per domestic production and the requirements of the national vaccination programme,” Srivastava said.In the case of smaller countries such as the Commonwealth of Dominica, the Indian supplies will be adequate to inoculate almost half of the population of 72,000. The country is now planning its largest vaccination programme that will initially cover frontline workers, senior citizens, lawmakers and cabinet ministers.Dominican Prime Minister Roosevelt Skerrit said he hadn’t imagined that the prayers of his country would be answered so swiftly. “Being the leader of a small Caribbean island with a population of 72,000 people, I did not fancy my chances of getting such a swift, positive response to my request of India’s Prime Minister Narendra Modi,” he said.“One would have thought and understood that in a global pandemic such as this, a nation’s size and might would have been the primary considerations but it is to the credit of Prime Minister Modi that our request was considered on merit and the equality of our people was recognised,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-sends-22-9-mn-doses-of-covid-19-vaccines-to-20-countries-more-in-pipeline-101613142400644.html
12-02-2021||India||News updates from HT: Govt says over 7.76 million vaccinated, 33 hospitalised and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Govt says over 7.76 million vaccinated, 33 hospitalisedMore than 7.76 people have been vaccinated against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), including 58.9% of targeted healthcare workers, since the launch of the country’s inoculation drive on January 26, the government said on Friday. Read more‘Very important business’: BJP issues 3-line whip to Lok Sabha membersThe Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Friday issued a whip to all its members in the Lok Sabha and asked them to be present in the House throughout the day from 10am on Saturday, requesting their support for the government’s stand on “very important legislative business” which is scheduled to be taken up. Read more8 killed as bus plunges into valley near Araku in Andhra PradeshAt least eight people were killed and several others were injured when a tourist bus plunged into a valley on the Araku ghat road in Andhra Pradesh’s Visakhapatnam district on Friday evening. Read more'Unbelievable' tornado tears through Turkey injuring 16A tornado ripped through a port area in Turkey's western coastal province of Izmir overnight, flinging vehicles into the air, damaging buildings, toppling a crane and leaving 16 people injured, Turkish officials said on Friday. Read moreBatting big: The key to Test success in IndiaBatting big, if possible once, has been the key to India’s sustained success at home that has seen them win 19 out of 25 Tests in the last five years. Out of those 19 wins, India batted first in 11 matches, scoring 450 and above on eight occasions. Read moreNokia 3.4, Power Earbuds Lite go on pre-booking in IndiaHMD Global launched the Nokia 5.4 alongside the Nokia 3.4 and the Nokia Power Earbuds Lite in India earlier this week. Now, just two days later the company has announced that its newly launched Nokia 3.4 smartphone and the Nokia Power Earbuds Lite are available in India for pre-booking via Nokia.com/phones starting today. Read moreRandhir Kapoor on brother Rajiv Kapoor's death: 'He had no medical history, I am left alone now'Randhir Kapoor has said that his brother, Rajiv Kapoor, who died on Tuesday, had no prior medical condition. Randhir expressed his grief at having lost several family members in quick succession. Read moreValentine's Week 2021: Quotable quotes to share with your partner this Kiss DayDuring Valentine's Week, several special days lead up to the main event, Valentine's Day, starting with Rose Day, Propose Day, Chocolate Day, Teddy Day, Promise Day, Hug Day, and finally Kiss Day is celebrated on the day before, marking the end of Valentine's Week. Read moreAstronomers discover a surprising sight while searching for a massive black holeIf you are a regular user of social media, you may be aware of the various posts that NASA shares. The tweets educate people about what goes on in outer space. Read moreWatch: ‘Repeal farm laws, then talk to farmers’: Rahul Gandhi slams Modi govtRahul Gandhi slammed the Modi government and accused it of trying to steal jobs from 40% of India’s population with the implementation of the farm laws. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-govt-says-over-7-76-million-vaccinated-33-hospitalised-and-all-the-latest-news-101613141097229.html
12-02-2021||India||India to fund USD 50M for restoration of 3 cultural heritage projects in Nepal||India will provide Nepalese Rupees(NR) 142 million to Nepal for the restoration and conservation of three cultural heritage sites in the Kathmandu Valley.The three sites are part of cultural heritage projects being taken up by India for post-earthquake conservation and restoration under an MoU signed between the two countries.The projects are being implemented under USD 50 million grant assistance committed by India for post-earthquake reconstruction of the cultural heritage sites across eight districts of Nepal.Representatives from the Indian Embassy in Kathmandu and various stakeholders in Nepal on Thursday signed three contract agreements for the conservation and retrofitting of the three conservation sites.The agreements were signed by the Project Director of CLPIU (Building) of National Reconstruction Authority and Contractors for conservation and retrofitting of Seto Machindranath Temple, construction of Dharamshala at Budhaneelkantha and conservation and development of Kumari Home in Lalitpur district, according to a press release issued by the Indian Embassy.The Seto Machindranath Temple is a significant living heritage site located in Jana Bahal in central Kathmandu. It is one of the main shrines of the protector God of Kathmandu Valley and is worshiped by both Hindus and Buddhists alike. The conservation and retrofitting of the temple will be carried out at a cost of NRs 626 million.Located inside Ratnakar Mahavihara, the Kumari Chhen is a historic house of the living goddess of Patan. The living goddess is central to culture and traditions of Newar Buddhist community and the Kumari Niwas has an important place in the rituals associated with the living goddess. The conservation and development of Kumari Chhen and Kumari Niwas will cost NRs 456 million.According to the embassy, Seto Machhindranath temple, and Kumari Chhen and Kumari Niwas will be conserved as per Nepal's Ancient Monument Preservation Act with an effort to restore the heritage sites to their past glory and traditions.Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage has been appointed as the project management consultant for supervising the conservation work.Similarly, Dharmashala at Budhaneelkantha lies within the heritage precinct of Budhanilkantha temple locally known as Narayanthan, 10 km North of Kathmandu. It will be constructed at a cost of NRs. 334 million.The Dharmashala is expected to facilitate visit of pilgrims and tourists visiting the sacred temple.Earlier in November 2019, India also built Mathadish building for Budhanilkantha temple at a cost of NRs 21.8 million.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-fund-usd-50m-for-restoration-of-3-cultural-heritage-projects-in-nepal-101613142218601.html
12-02-2021||India||8 killed as bus plunges into valley near Araku in Andhra Pradesh||At least eight people were killed and several others were injured when a tourist bus plunged into a valley on the Araku ghat road in Andhra Pradesh’s Visakhapatnam district on Friday evening.According to the police, the accident occurred when the tourist bus, belonging to Dinesh Travels, Hyderabad, was taking a steep turn at Dumuku hamlet near Anantagiri village on its way to picturesque Araku valley.The bus was carrying 30 passengers, all from Hyderabad, the police said. The condition of some of the injured passengers is said to be critical. The injured are being shifted to Visakhapatnam hospitals in ambulances. Rescue operations are on, the police said.Further details are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/8-killed-as-bus-plunges-into-valley-near-araku-in-andhra-pradesh-101613142422526.html
12-02-2021||India||Top court seeks Andhra's response on Odisha's contempt plea on border row||The Supreme Court on Friday sought a response from the Andhra Pradesh government on an allegation by Odisha that the former was holding local body elections in three villages falling under Odisha’s territory.The notification announcing Panchayat elections was issued by the Collector of Vizianagaram district in Andhra Pradesh on March 5, 2020.Senior advocate Vikas Singh appearing for the Odisha government told the top court that elections will be held in violation of a Supreme Court order of December 2, 1968 passed in a suit between the two states. The court had ordered status quo to be maintained by the parties over 21 villages in Koraput district of Odisha. The three villages going to polls were stated to be part of this batch.Moving a contempt petition against top officers of the Andhra Pradesh government and the State Election Commissioner (SEC), the Naveen Patnaik government claimed that the action of holding polls was clearly in contempt of the 1968 order. Although the suit was dismissed in 2006 on technical grounds, Odisha maintained that both states agreed to abide by the status quo order.For Andhra Pradesh, standing counsel Mahfooz Nazki denied the charges and raised preliminary objections against entertaining the contempt petition. Since Nazki did not have a copy of Odisha’s petition, the bench of Justices AM Khanwilkar and Aniruddha Bose said, “We are not passing any order. You (Andhra Pradesh) first go through the application and file your response including preliminary objections. We will decide next Friday.”Singh informed the Court that the elections will be held on Saturday. The bench observed, “Whatever consequences will flow from our order will follow.”The petition by Odisha claimed that the three villages falling in Koraput have been shown as part of Salur Panchayat mandal of Vizianagaram by changing their original names from Ganjaipader, Phattusenary, and Phagusenary to Ganjaibadra, Pattuchennuru and Phaguluchennuru, respectively.The state accused Andhra Pradesh of “invading” into its territory and named Vizianagaram Collector Mude Hari Jawaharlal as the first contemnor for issuing the election notification last year. “In the notification deliberately the contemnors roped in three villages from the ‘Kotia Group of villages’ falling under the territory of Koraput district of Odisha into Salur Mandal of Vizinagaram district (AP). Clandestinely the contemnors changed the name of the three villages of Kotia Gram Panchayat,” the Odisha government alleged.The petition further named Andhra Pradesh Chief Secretary Adityanath Das and SEC N Ramesh Kumar as co-contemnors. Administratively and otherwise, the state of Odisha has been in control of these villages throughout, the petition stated. The matter will be heard by the Supreme Court on February 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/top-court-seeks-andhra-s-response-on-odisha-s-contempt-plea-on-border-row-101613140900850.html
12-02-2021||India||PM Modi meets newly-elected Rajya Sabha MPs||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday met the newly-elected Rajya Sabha MPs of the BJP.Former Bihar deputy chief minister Sushil Kumar Modi, party's national general secretary Arun Singh and Neeraj Shekhar were among the MPs who met the prime minister."Met newly elected @BJP4India Rajya Sabha MPs. Wished them the very best for their Parliamentary innings," Modi tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-meets-newly-elected-rajya-sabha-mps-101613141589526.html
12-02-2021||India||Over 7.76 million people vaccinated so far, 33 hospitalised: Govt||More than 7.76 people have been vaccinated against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), including 58.9% of targeted healthcare workers, since the launch of the country’s inoculation drive on January 26, the government said on Friday.“A total of 77,66,319 beneficiaries have been vaccinated till February 12, 6pm. Of these, 58,65,813 healthcare workers have been vaccinated, constituting 58.9% of the total healthcare worker target. There are 19,00,506 frontline workers who have been vaccinated or 21.2% of the targeted number,” Mandeep Bhandari, the joint secretary of the Union ministry of health and family welfare, said during a press briefing.The health ministry has said that 26 days in which India crossed 7 million vaccinations made the country the fastest to reach the mark. The United States was on the second spot and took 27 days to vaccinate 7 million of its citizens, according to the health ministry.Also watch | 'Should be very proud’: WHO lauds India’s fight amid falling Covid-19 casesAlso read | Most people are naturally armed against Covid-19: StudyBhandari also said that 33 people have been hospitalised after being vaccinated. “Of which, 21 have been discharged from hospital, two are under treatment and 10 deaths have been recorded. The percentage of hospitalisation as against total vaccinations constitutes 0.0004%,” he also said. “The new event of hospitalisation reported in the last 24 hours is a case of anaphylaxis, which was treated at Murshidabad Medical College and Hospital in West Bengal and the patient has been since discharged from the hospital,” the official added.Also read | India, pharmacy of the world, falls behind on vaccinations at homeThe schedule for vaccination of frontline workers at least once has been fixed for March 1 and the mop-up round for those who couldn't be vaccinated, should be covered latest by March 6, Bhandari said. “For vaccination at least once, scheduling for all healthcare workers has to be carried out by February 20. Mop up rounds for the healthcare workers shall be completed to end by February 25,” he added.Also read | 4 states/UTs recorded no new Covid-19 cases in last 24 hoursIndia’s tally of the coronavirus disease stands at 10,880,603 after 9,309 new infections and 87 deaths were reported between Thursday and Friday morning, according to the health ministry. The count includes 135,926 active cases, 10,589,230 recoveries and 155,447 fatalities across the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-7-76-million-people-vaccinated-so-far-33-hospitalised-govt-101613141139754.html
12-02-2021||India||Unknown bacterial disease kills 4 elephants in Odisha sanctuary in 12 days||At least four female elephants have succumbed to a likely bacterial disease in a wildlife sanctuary of Kalahandi district since February 1.The carcass of a female elephant, said forest and wildlife officials on Friday, was found near a drain at Jakma village under Karlapat wildlife sanctuary in Kalahandi district, taking the toll to four in the last 12 days.Between February 1 and 8, the carcasses of two elephants were found at the same spot which has puzzled forest department officials. On Wednesday, the carcass of a female elephant was found at Ghusurigudi village inside the wildlife sanctuary.Divisional Forest Officer, Kalahandi(south), T Ashok Kumar, said prima facie all the four elephants might have succumbed to haemorrhagic septicaemia, an acute and highly fatal form of bacterial infection marked by fever, hypersalivation, nasal discharge and difficult respiration.The DFO said the test result of the first two elephants at the laboratory in the veterinary college of OUAT came out negative for anthrax. "But the lab is testing it further as the symptoms are for haemorrhagic septicaemia. We suspect the infections likely happened from the elephants drinking the water contaminated by livestock in the nearby human settlements," he said. There are 4-5 villages around the area where the elephants died.Karlapat sanctuary had an estimated 17-20 elephants in the 2018 elephant census.Haemorrhagic septicaemia affects mainly water buffalo, cattle, and bison in tropical areas of southeast Asia, where water buffalo populations are high. Acute infection can persist up to 3 days, and less often 5 days, and is characterised by fever of 104°–106°F, restlessness and reluctance to move, hypersalivation and nasal discharge.The DFO said waterbodies in the area are being sanitised and cattle are also being vaccinated to avoid the spread of the disease. Forest department officials have been asked to maintain high vigil and prevent elephants from straying into the region in view of chances of more such cases.In 2020-21, so far 61 elephants have died in Odisha of which 26 were due to unnatural causes. While 10 elephants have been either poached or poisoned to death, more than a half a dozen have been electrocuted.In August and September 2019, five elephant calves in Nandankanan zoo and adjoining Chandaka elephant sanctuary had succumbed to elephant endotheliotropic herpesvirus. It was the first reported case of EEHV-related deaths in an Indian zoo.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unknown-bacterial-disease-kills-4-elephants-in-odisha-sanctuary-in-12-days-101613140952985.html
12-02-2021||India||PM Modi to dedicate Arjun tank to nation on Sunday, Army to get 118 latest tanks||In yet another boost for Make in India in defence Prime Minister Narendra Modi will dedicate the Main Battle Tank Arjun Mark1A to the nation on Sunday.In a high-level meeting, the Defence Ministry recently cleared the induction of 118 Arjun Mark1A tanks into the Indian Army which would be worth around ₹8,400 crore and would add to the strength of the force in land warfare."Prime Minister Narendra Modi would be dedicating the latest version of the Arjun tank to the nation on February 14 in Chennai at the tank production facility in Avadi," Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) officials told ANIThe tank has been fully designed and developed by the DRDO in close coordination with the Indian Army. The 118 tanks would be joining the fleet of the first batch of 124 Arjun tanks which have already been inducted into the Army and are deployed in the western desert along the Pakistan front.The 118 Arjun tanks would also form two regiments in the Armoured Corps of the Indian Army like the first 124 tanks.Officials said the Army has reduced the number of tanks required for the formation of a tank regiment and that is the why the present order has six lesser tanks than the previous order for two regiments.The DRDO has been developing the Arjun Mark 1A for quite some time now and the project was hastened by both Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat and DRDO chief Dr G Satheesh Reddy to increase the level of indigenous weapon systems in the armed forces.The Arjun has been designed by the DRDO's Combat Vehicles Research and Development Establishment (CVRDE) and DRDO Chairman Satheesh Reddy will hand the first Arjun Mark 1A to Prime Minister Modi.The tanks will be produced by the Ordnance Factory Board's (OFB) Heavy Vehicles Factory (HVF) Avadi and the first batch of five main battle tanks will be handed over to the army within two-and-a-half years of the signing of the contract.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-dedicate-arjun-tank-to-nation-on-sunday-army-to-get-118-latest-tanks-101613139854717.html
12-02-2021||India||‘Very important business’: BJP issues 3-line whip to Lok Sabha members||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Friday issued a whip to all its members in the Lok Sabha and asked them to be present in the House throughout the day from 10am on Saturday, requesting their support for the government’s stand on “very important legislative business” which is scheduled to be taken up.“All BJP members in Lok Sabha are hereby informed that some very important Legislative Business will be taken up for discussion and passing in the Lok Sabha on Saturday, the 13th February 2021. All members of BJP in Lok Sabha are therefore, requested to be positively present in the House throughout the day from 10.00 a.m. onwards on Saturday, the 13th February 2021 and support the Government’s stand,” whip, signed by the party’s chief whip Rakesh Singh, said.Watch | Finance minister's counter to ‘crony capitalism’ criticismIn the ongoing budget session, opposition parties have constantly attacked the Centre over the implementation of the financial document and the farm laws in both Houses of Parliament. On Thursday, Congress’ leader P Chidambaram criticised the budget during his Rajya Sabha speech, calling it a “budget for the rich, of the rich and by the rich.” Congress MP Shashi Tharoor also had termed it as a ‘tepid budget’. “The contribution of this budget is ‘Na Jawan, Na Kisan’ (no soldiers, no farmers),” Tharoor had said.On Friday, Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman defended the Union Budget 2021-22 in the Rajya Sabha. Sitharaman said that the opposition had made it a habit to accuse the government despite all the measures it has taken for the poor. She also hailed the budget would help in attaining the goal of Aatmanirbhar Bharat. “It's a budget which clearly draws on the experience, the administrative capacities and also exposure that the Prime Minister had during his long elected tenure, both as CM and as PM of this country,” she said.Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday defended his government’s implementation of the three farm laws in his reply to the motion of thanks on the President’s address. He said that the content and intent of the farm laws weren’t discussed as much as their colour.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/very-important-business-bjp-issues-3-line-whip-to-lok-sabha-members-101613138826772.html
12-02-2021||India||At his party, YSR corporator dragged on bonnet, run over by car: Police||A senior YSR Congress Party leader and corporator of Kakinada Municipal Corporation, Kampara Ramesh, in Andhra Pradesh’s East Godavari district was killed when his friend ran his car over him in the early hours of Friday, the police said. He was 50.A video of a person first dashing the corporator with his car and then running it thrice over him, leading to his death on the spot, went viral on social media.The corporator, as seen in the video, is dragged over the bonnet of the car and then falls to the ground as the vehicle runs over him. The car then reverses and again drives over his body. Not done yet, the car runs over him for the third time and zooms away.The accused has been identified as Gurajala Chinna.Preliminary enquiries by the police revealed that the murder took place following a quarrel between Ramesh and Chinna over a land issue.According to Sarpavaram police inspector Nunna Raju, the incident took place at a car wash centre in Gangarajunagar in the town at around 2.10 am.“Both are close friends and they had a party at the car wash centre. We are investigating what happened between the two that led to the incident. Going by the closed-circuit television camera footage, it was clearly evident that it was an intentional murder,” the inspector said.According to the complaint lodged by Ramesh’s associates, who were present at the spot, Chinna and his brother, Gurajala Kumar, had come to the car wash centre where the corporator was hosting a party. After the party was over, both Ramesh and Chinna had a quarrel over some issue.“When Chinna and his brother started leaving, Ramesh tried to stop him. In a fit of rage, Chinna dashed him with the car and when the latter fell down on the road, he ran the car over Ramesh thrice, killing him on the spot,” the complainants said.The police rushed to the spot on receiving the information and shifted Ramesh to the Government General Hospital, Kakinada, where the doctors declared him brought dead.“We have booked a case of murder against Chinna. He and his brother are absconding,” the inspector said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-his-party-ysr-corporator-dragged-on-bonnet-run-over-by-car-police-101613139143531.html
12-02-2021||India||Andhra govt forms panel to look into abandoned buildings in Amaravati||The Andhra Pradesh government has formed a nine-member high-level committee to look into the fate of existing building infrastructure in Amaravati, the present state capital, in the wake of its decision to shift the executive capital to Visakhapatnam.The committee, headed by chief secretary Adityanath Das and comprising eight other senior officials representing various departments had its first meeting in the secretariat on Friday to discuss measures on what to do with various buildings and housing units that had been constructed in Amaravati during the previous Telugu Desam Party government as part of capital infrastructure.Hundreds of multi-storeyed residential quarters for All India Services officers, legislators, state government employees and Secretariat staff, besides villas and other residential bungalows for high court judges were constructed during the Naidu regime and many of them were almost nearing completion, when the construction was halted by the Jagan government soon after its formation in May 2019.The construction of twin towers for the Secretariat and other administrative complexes and the new high court complex also came to a halt, after Jagan came to power.Now that the Jagan government has decided to restrict Amaravati only as a legislative capital and shift the judicial capital to Kurnool and executive capital to Visakhapatnam, most of these buildings constructed at a high cost are likely to be abandoned.The high-level official committee has been entrusted with the task of examining the buildings and housing units in Amaravati which are essentially required for the legislative capital, which now falls under the Amaravati Metropolitan Region Development Authority (AMRDA), which replaced the earlier AP Capital Region Development Authority (APCRDA).With regard to other unfinished apartment units and bungalows, the committee has been asked to study as to what could be done with them – whether to fully execute the buildings or to explore means for reducing the burden on the exchequer.State principal secretary, municipal administration Y Srilakshmi, one of the members of the committee, said it would require another ₹2,112 crore to complete the unfinished building infrastructure, apart from ₹302 crore due to be paid to the contractors for the completed work.Besides, the government would have to complete the other infrastructure facilities like power, water supply, electricity and drainage works in the AMRDA area.The chief secretary suggested that priority be given to complete the buildings and residential quarters which had been completed up to 75 per cent. He asked the officials to talk to bankers and contractors about the matter.An official familiar with the development said the government might complete only those buildings and quarters required for the legislative capital and put up the remaining unfinished buildings for sale through “Mission Build AP,” a special purpose vehicle created by the state government to sell unused government properties to raise funds.“The government hopes to generate huge money through auctioning of these building units in Amaravati through Mission Build AP. The funds can be used for funding the welfare schemes of the government,” the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-govt-forms-panel-to-look-into-abandoned-buildings-in-amaravati-101613138468815.html
12-02-2021||India||Centre has spent ₹7.95 crore on campaign to bust myths about farm laws: Tomar||The Centre has spent over ₹7.95 crore in five months till January for a publicity campaign to bust myths about the new farm laws, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar informed Parliament on Friday.  Out of this, the Information and Broadcasting Ministry committed ₹7,25,57,246 for release of advertisements between September 2020 and January 2021 on behalf of the Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare, he said.   Tomar, in a written reply in the Rajya Sabha, further said the print advertisements have been published through the Bureau of Outreach and Communication (BOC) in Hindi, English and regional language newspapers for "clarifications related to farm laws including on myth and realities, etc" for creating awareness among the farmers and other stakeholders.   The Agriculture Ministry has incurred an expenditure of ₹67,99,750 on production of three promotional and two educational films on the farm laws for its wider publicity through electronic media, social media and webinars.  Besides, miscellaneous expenditure of ₹1,50,568 was incurred on development of creatives for print advertisement, the minister added.   On expenses incurred on overseas publicity campaign, the minister said there was "nil" expenditure as per the information received from the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA).   However, the missions/posts, as part of regular diplomatic work shared the latest developments, the government's considered position and useful information on the farm laws, including frequently asked question (FAQs) etc on their social media accounts in their outreach to the diaspora, he said.  The related government departments have also created awareness through social media platforms, he added.   Responding to another query, Tomar said the government engaged itself actively and constantly with the agitating farmers' unions and 11 rounds of negotiations were held to resolve their issues.  During various rounds of negotiations, the government had been requesting the agitating farmers' unions "to discuss the farm laws clause by clause" in order to resolve their concerns on the clauses bothering them, he said.  "However, farmers' unions never agreed to discuss the farm laws except for the demand for their repeal," he noted.   The farmers' protest at Delhi borders has entered its third month. Thousands of farmers, especially from Punjab, Haryana and parts of Uttar Pradesh, are agitating seeking repeal of the new laws, introduced by the Centre last year, saying they are pro-corporate and could weaken the mandi system.   The 11 rounds of the talks between the Centre and 41 protesting farmer unions has so far remained deadlocked even though the former has offered concessions including suspension of the legislations for 18 months, which the unions have rejected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-has-spent-rs-7-95-crore-on-campaign-to-bust-myths-about-farm-laws-tomar-101613138360319.html
12-02-2021||India||SC sends notice to Twitter, Centre on regulating 'fake and seditious' content||The Supreme Court on Friday sought responses from Twitter India and Centre on a petition demanding regulation of "fake and seditious" content and advertisements circulated on social media platforms from unverified accounts.The petition filed by Delhi Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) unit’s IT and Social Media Cell chief Vinit Goenka cited the recent order of the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) issued on February 1 directing Twitter to block more than 250 accounts found to promote fake and provocative content.Goenka accused Twitter of creating hatred in society by circulating, publishing, and promoting seditious contents and sought a mechanism to deal with such content.A three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde issued a notice on the petition and tagged it with two similar petitions pending in Court on the issue of regulating content on social media. In October 2020, the Court issued a notice on a petition by two law students demanding profile verification of social media accounts to weed out illicit and graphic content uploaded on social media.Also read: 'Suffocated' - Trinamool's Dinesh Trivedi announces resignation from Rajya SabhaAppearing for Goenka, advocate Ashwini Dubey informed the Court that an urgent need had arisen for the Court to interfere as no law is in place to prevent the circulation of anti-national content and posts that spread hatred based on fake news.“In the absence of any law to deal with offensive and hate messages, platforms like Twitter are knowingly promoting the messages which are against the law of the land and therefore, the Respondent No.4 (Twitter) needs to explain for circulating and promoting the prohibited content,” the petitioner said.With notices been issued, responses have to be filed to the petition by Twitter and the two Central departments – Ministry of Law and Justice, and Ministry of Information and Broadcasting.At present, Twitter enjoys a considerable presence in India having close to 3.5 million accounts. According to the petition, 10 per cent of these handles are fake with some of them bearing names and profiles of top constitutional functionaries in the country that tends to mislead the common man.“Fake accounts are used to promote casteism, communalism, regionalism, linguism,” the petition stated, citing the recent trend of separatist organisations like Pakistan-based ISI, Indian Mujahideen using Twitter to create fake IDs and spread hatred among communities through seditious, hate-filled, and divisive content.In 2019, Twitter suspended the account of a pro-Khalistani activist Guru Patvant Singh Pannun after the Sikh community complained that he was radicalizing youth.“The aforesaid act shows that Respondent 4 (Twitter) is sympathetic to terrorist groups. There is no law/mechanism which prohibits Respondent 4 from doing aforesaid illegal acts, and Respondent 4 does not have its own mechanism,” Goenka stated in his petition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-sends-notice-to-twitter-centre-on-regulating-fake-and-seditious-content-101613137139358.html
12-02-2021||India||Inter-caste marriages will possibly reduce caste and community tensions: SC||Inter-caste marriages will possibly reduce caste and community tensions, the Supreme Court has said while noting that the educated younger boys and girls are now a days choosing their life partners which is a departure from earlier societal norms. The top court said that youngsters face threats from the elders and the courts have been coming to the aid of these youngsters. It said the way forward to the police authorities is to counsel the Investigating Officers (IO) and lay down some guidelines and training programmes on how to handle such socially sensitive cases.The remarks came by a bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Hrishikesh Roy which quashed an FIR lodged by the parents of the girl, who had married a boy of her choice against the wishes of elders, at Belgavai district of Karnataka.The top court in its recent verdict said that it hopes that the parents of the girl will have a better sense to accept the marriage and re-establish social interaction not only with her but even with her husband.“That, in our view, is the only way forward. Under the garb of caste and community to alienate the child and the son-in-law will hardly be a desirable social exercise,” the bench told the parents of the girl, who has sought quashing of the FIR lodged against her.The top court said, “Educated younger boys and girls are choosing their life partners which, in turn is a departure from the earlier norms of society where caste and community play a major role. Possibly, this is the way forward where caste and community tensions will reduce by such inter marriage but in the meantime these youngsters face threats from the elders and the Courts have been coming to the aid of these youngsters.”Referring to earlier verdicts of the top courts, the bench said it has been held that the consent of the family or the community or the clan is not necessary once the two adult individuals agree to enter into wedlock and that their consent has to be piously given primacy.The bench said it has been held in the 2017 verdict of the top court that the choice of an individual is an “inextricable part of dignity, for dignity cannot be thought of where there is erosion of choice”. “Intimacies of marriage lie within a core zone of privacy, which is inviolable and even matters of faith would have the least effect on them. The right to marry a person of choice was held to be integral to Article 21 of the Constitution of India,” the bench noted, while referring to Hadiya case verdict of 2018.Justice Kaul, who penned down the verdict on behalf of the bench, said that the intervention of this Court would really not have been required in the given facts of the case, if the investigating officer had conducted himself more responsibly in closing the complaint.“…if the investigating officer really wanted to record the statement of the petitioner No.1 (girl), should have informed that he would visit her and recorded the statement instead of putting her under threat of action against petitioner No.2 (boy) to come to the police station,” the bench said.The bench said that it does not reflect very well on the police authorities or the IO of the case as the marriage certificate having been received by him and the conversation already been held with the girl, where she clearly stated that she was married to the boy, and that she was feeling threatened and apprehensive of coming to the police station. “If the IO could have visited the residence of petitioner No.2 (boy), he could very well have recorded the statement of petitioner No.1(girl) at the place where the petitioners were residing rather than insisting and calling upon the petitioners to come to the local police station at Karnataka”, it said.The bench said that the IO undoubtedly sought to compel the girl to come and record the statement at police station on the threat of possibility of a false case being registered by her parents against the boy and the consequent action of the police which would result in his arrest.“We strongly deprecate the conduct of the IO in adopting these tactics and the officer must be sent for counselling as to how to manage such cases,” the bench said.It said that the way forward to the police authorities is to not only counsel the current IOs but devise a training programme to deal with such cases for the benefit of the police personnel."We expect the police authorities to take action on this behalf in the next eight weeks to lay down some guidelines and training programmes on how to handle such socially sensitive cases," the bench said.The bench noted that both the petitioners are well educated and the boy is an M.Tech from NIT, Tiruchirapalli and got a placement as an Assistant Professor in Jain College of Engineering, Belagavi, while his wife is an MA B.Ed and was a Lecturer in a College. It noted that there was resistance from the parents of the girl, though the parents of the boy were willing for the matrimony of both the well qualified petitioners who are majors and Hindu by religion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/intercaste-marriages-will-possibly-reduce-caste-and-community-tensions-sc-101613138024617.html
12-02-2021||India||‘Where are we headed’: Jwala Gutta posts about grandmother’s death, gets racist replies||Badminton player Jwala Gutta said on Friday she was subjected to racism on social media after she tweeted about her grandmother’s death in China and that she was asked why she called coronavirus “Covid and not Chinese virus”. Gutta, whose mother is Chinese and has faced racism in the past, said she was appalled after receiving "racist" comments after she posted about her grandmother’s death."Ammaama passed away in China on d eve of CNY! My mom use 2 visit her every month but for past year she couldn't because of covid. how dis covid has made us realise how important it is 2 be in present do whatever v can for our loved ones whenever v can! Happy new year,” Gutta, the former World No 6, tweeted.I understand what you're going thru, Jwala, but unfortunately this is where we are as a nation and a people - totally insensitive to others, even in mourning. Ignore them. Our heartfelt condolences to you and your family. May her soul RIP. God be with you in this hour of grief.🙏She later shared a photograph of a reply by a user on her tweet. “Covid or Chinese virus?". "This is what anyone will get...for any racist comment on my TL...and if you come near my family!!" Gutta replied along with the picture.The 14-time national champion then talked about the "racist replies" she received. “I am mourning the loss of my grand mom who passed away in China and to my surprise I get racist replies.... and I am asked why I say covid and not Chinese virus.... What has happened to us as a society...where's the empathy...where r we headed...and there r defenders?? Shameful!" she wrote.Several users, including Congress leader Gaurav Gogoi, tweeted in support amid a barrage of posts. “You have always worked hard and brought medals and glory to India. I stand with you and also offer my condolences,” Gogoi tweeted.“UR a fighter on and off the court.. ignore these racists..I stand with you and my condolences..keep smashing,” another Congress leader M Prithviraj Singh said in his reply to her tweet.Last year, Gutta had faced racial attacks since the Covid-19 outbreak but had said that chose to ignore them and move on. “I actually pity them. These people who are trolling me are the ones who will come asking for a selfie. So I really don’t pay too much attention to them,” she had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jwala-gutta-posts-about-grandmom-s-death-gets-racist-replies-101613137291928.html
12-02-2021||India||Rajya Sabha clocks 99% productivity as 1st part of Budget session ends||The Rajya Sabha clocked 99 per cent productivity during the two-week long first part of the dual phase Budget session of Parliament, chairman M Venkaiah Naidu said Friday.The House broke for a three-week recess on Friday after Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman's reply to a discussion on the budget for the fiscal year beginning April 1. The recess will allow parliamentary committees to examine the budget allocation for various ministries.Parliament will now meet on March 8 for the second part of the Budget session."I am happy to inform you that this part of the session has been quite productive with the House clocking 99 per cent productivity," Naidu said before adjourning the proceedings till March 8.Besides discussion on the Budget, the House also debated for 15 hours on a motion thanking the President for his address to the joint sitting of Parliament at the start of the Budget session. Prime Minister Narendra Modi replied to that debate earlier this week."The productivity of the House during this week has been 113 per cent as against the productivity of 82 per cent during the first week," he said. "As against the total scheduled time of 45 hours 4 minutes, net of only 30 minutes has been lost due to disruptions," Naidu said.Naidu, who is also the Vice President of India, said during the first part a total of 27 hours and 11 minutes were spent on debate and discussions.Over 60 per cent of the total functional time was spent on discussing Motion of Thanks to the President and the General Budget for 2021-2022, he said. "About 100 members spoke on these two subjects alone."As against the total loss of 4 hours 24 minutes during the first week, the members sat for an extra 3 hours 54 minutes during the second week.A total of 88 issues of public importance have been raised. These include 56 Zero Hour and 32 Special Mentions. Also, 55 Starred Questions were orally answered.During the two weeks, three Bills were passed - The J&K Reorganisation (Amendment) Bill, 2021; The National Capital Territory of Delhi Laws (Special Provisions) (Amendment) Bill, 2021 and The Major Ports Authority Bill, 2020, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajya-sabha-clocks-99-productivity-as-1st-part-of-budget-session-ends-101613136567265.html
12-02-2021||India||Kerala CM announces 5-year economic package worth ₹7,000 crore for Wayanad||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Friday announced a five-year economic package of ₹7,000 crore for the development of Wayanad district which focused to double the income of coffee farmers."Left Democratic Front (LDF) government is putting forward a programme for the comprehensive development of the district, at a time when the country is facing a severe agricultural crisis," the Kerala Chief Minister said in a statement.Describing the highlights of the package, the statement issued by Kerala Chief Minister's Office stated that the package mainly focused on schemes for the development of crops including pepper, banana, ginger and tea. It also ensured the tourism, education and health facilities development."While preserving the ecological balance the living standard of the people will be raised in a planned manner," Vijayan said and also announced various development projects of the state including "Wayanad Coffee" project."The government aims to brand "Wayanad coffee" and to sell it which will help coffee farmers to increase their income. The product of Wayanad brand coffee is underway. For this ₹20 crore has been allotted to Kudumbasree which will soon launch 500 office vending machines and 100 kiosks for the marketing of the coffee," he said.Kudumbashree Mission also know as State Poverty Eradication Mission (SPEM), is the State government's instrument for poverty eradication under the Local Self-Government Department.According to the Chief Minister, Kinfra mega food park of ₹150 crore with Kifby funding will be set up in Kalpetta which is the most modern plant for coffee powder production will be located here.A public processing facility for processing other agricultural resources such as jackfruit, workshops and plots for setting up agro-processing industries for private entrepreneurs will be set up here. Construction of the park is expected to be completed by the end of 2022, as per the statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-cm-announces-5-year-economic-package-worth-rs-7-000-crore-for-wayanad-101613135866769.html
12-02-2021||India||‘Farmers have shown light in darkness’ says Rahul Gandhi in Rajasthan’s Sri Ganganagar||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said on Friday farmers have shown the light in the darkness by their protests against the three central farm laws. Gandhi, currently on a two-day visit to Rajasthan, also termed their protests as ‘agitation of India’ during his speech at Sri Ganganagar.“The day farm laws get implemented business of 40% people, of ₹40 lakh crore, of businessmen, vendors, farmers and workers, will go into hands of just two people. This isn't farmers' agitation but the agitation of India. Farmers have shown the light in the darkness,” news agency ANI quoted Gandhi as saying.Also read | Rahul Gandhi attacks PM Modi over China border pactThe Congress leader’s ‘just two people’ remark comes a day after he tweeted “A government of ‘Hum Do, Hamare Do (We two, ours two)’ !” on Thursday.Earlier in the day, the Congress MP made similar comments while addressing a Kisan Mahapanchayat in Rajasthan’s Pilibanga. “Forty per cent of India’s population runs this business in the country. These include farmers, labourers, small shopkeepers, businessmen and arthiyas. Congress has always tried to ensure that the business is never controlled by just one person,” Gandhi said.He also urged the Centre to take back the three farm laws and then talk to the farmers over the issue. “Modi Ji says that we want to speak with farmers, what do you want to talk about? Repeal the laws, farmers will speak with you. You (PM) are taking away their land, future and then you want to talk. Take back laws first, then talk,” Gandhi said at Pilibanga, news agency ANI reported.Watch | Rahul Gandhi says ‘PM Modi gave Indian territory to China'Eleven rounds of negotiations between the farmers and the government have taken place but no agreement has been reached. Despite multiple assurances by the Prime Minister and the government, the farmers have been rigid about the repeal of the farm laws and a legal assurance on the minimum support price (MSP).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-have-shown-light-in-darkness-says-rahul-gandhi-in-rajasthan-101613133264459.html
12-02-2021||India||Farmers' protest: 'Ghar wapsi' only after laws are repealed, says Rakesh Tikait||Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait once again said on Friday the protesting farmers will leave only after the three contentious farm laws are repealed. Tikait said that Singhu border, one of the protest sites on the outskirts of Delhi, would remain their office and that they will not go 'without removing metal spikes from Delhi.'"There will be 'Ghar Wapsi' only after farm laws are repealed. Our 'manch and panch' will be the same. Singhu border will remain our office. Whether the Centre wants to talk today, in 10 days or next year, we're ready. Won't go without removing metal spikes from Delhi," Tikait was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Tikait had earlier said that the farmers' protest would go on for an indefinite period of time since there was no planning regarding the duration yet in response to Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) leader Gurnam Singh Charni statement that the agitation would continue till October. "Farmers' protest will go on for an indefinite period as there is no plan currently. It might continue till October," Tikait told ANI.He also said that it was good that the issue of the farmers was being debated in Parliament and also agreed with Rahul Gandhi's remark of 'Hum Do, Humare Do', which the Congress leader said during a discussion on the Union Budget in the Lok Sabha on Thursday, accusing the government of ensuring the well being of a select few close to those in power. "This 'Hum Do, Humare Do' began with Notebandi. Then came GST. Then came Covid. Migrant workers pleaded for a bus or train ticket to return home, but were told to walk back," Gandhi said."The entire nation's farmers are on the streets protesting, there must be a reason for it. If the farm laws are not accepted by the farmers, then what is the compulsion of not repealing them?" Tikait asked.Farmers have been protesting on the different borders of the national capital since November 26 last year against the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.The protests led up to a tractor rally, organised by the farmers on Republic Day, which ended in violence. The farmers and the Centre have been stuck in a stalemate despite several rounds of talks. The farmers have made it clear that they will not accept anything less than a complete rollback of the laws while the Centre has refused to withdraw them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-ghar-wapsi-only-after-laws-are-repealed-says-rakesh-tikait-101613128843671.html
12-02-2021||India||Dozens dead, hundreds missing: What we know about Uttarakhand flash floods so far||Five days after a part of a glacier broke off in Chamoli district of Uttarakhand triggering devastating flash floods in the area, the death toll reached 36 on Friday and 168 people are still missing, officials have said.Here is everything that has happened since the floods on Sunday:What caused the floods?A part of the Nanda Devi glacier broke off on February 7 at around 10:45am triggering an avalanche and sudden floods in the Rishi Ganga, Dhauli Ganga and Alaknanda, all tributaries of the River Ganga. "The glacial burst led to the rising of water levels in the river Rishiganga, which washed away the Rishiganga small hydro project of 13.2 MW,” the Union ministry of home affairs said.Also read | CM Rawat says lake formed near Raini village in Joshimath being monitoredDeath toll and damageOfficials have said 204 people went missing after the floods of which 36 bodies have been recovered and 168 people are still missing. Of the 36 bodies, 10 have been identified, according to officials. Also, around 30 people are feared to have been trapped inside a tunnel in a hydel power project site of the NTPC in Tapovan area of Chamoli district.Rescue effortsAgencies such as the Indo Tibetan Border Police (ITBP), State Disaster Relief Force (SDRF), National Disaster Relief Force (NDRF) along with the Indian army and the local police have been involved in the relief efforts.Rescue efforts continued in the Tapovan tunnel for the sixth consecutive day on Friday. “The rescue workers are putting in all efforts to clear the muck from the tunnel but are unable to make any progress because there is heavy muck inside. We have cleared about 100m of the tunnel,” Uttarakhand's chief of police Ashok Kumar said.Relief measures announcedUttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat had cancelled his plans for the day on Sunday and visited the flood-affected sites from February 8 to take stock of the situation. Rawat had announced ₹4 lakh as compensation for the kin of the deceased.Prime Minister Narendra Modi had also announced an ex-gratia of ₹2 lakh for the family of those killed in the disaster and Rs. 50,000 to the injured.Scientists analyse the cause"According to the scientists, the area where the calamity struck is not prone to avalanches and apparently it was not caused by a glacier burst as initial reports suggested. It was due to millions of metric tonnes of snow sliding down abruptly from a trigger point on the top of a naked hill," CM Rawat had said on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dozens-dead-hundreds-missing-what-we-know-about-uttarakhand-floods-so-far-101613132225603.html
12-02-2021||India||Centre gave Assam ₹262 crore for Covid fight: State Finance Minister||The Assam government has received financial assistance of over ₹262 crore from the Centre for management of Covid-19 pandemic and rolling out the vaccination drive, state Finance Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said on Friday.Presenting the 'Vote on Account Budget for 2021-22', Sarma said the government allocated an additional ₹760 crore for prevention and management of the pandemic to the general budget grant of ₹6,126 crore to the Health Department in the ongoing fiscal."To finance our fight against Covid-19, we received a grant of ₹72.73 crore for 2019-20 from Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. In addition, we received ₹182 crore recently for 2020-21 for Covid-19 management," he added.For the rollout of the first phase of the vaccination programme for the frontline workers, the Centre has provided a grant of ₹2.46 crore to Assam, Sarma said in his speech."In addition, we have also received funds amounting to ₹4.99 crore and ₹8.36 crore from the Development of North Eastern Region (DONER) Ministry and GIZ India for management of Covid-19," he said.During the pandemic, the public made a generous financial contribution of ₹116.89 crore to the Assam Aarogya Nidhi in a very short time span, but that amount has not been used as of now, the finance minister informed the assembly."I would like to express my heartfelt gratitude to all the donors who stood by us in this crisis... The entire fund has been kept intact and we will utilise it with utmost prudence to fight Covid-19 in the coming times," he said.Stating that managing the Covid-19 pandemic has been "probably one of greatest moments of satisfaction for me in my entire public life", Sarma thanked the doctors, paramedical and nursing staff, enforcement departments, district administrations and health department."While the role of doctors and nurses has been critical in saving lives, the services rendered by the other healthcare staff were no less important in ensuring the functioning of the facilities and they are the unsung heroes in the true sense," he added.As a result of a coordinated effort by all, the state has consistently maintained a high Covid-19 recovery rate of 98.73% and one of the lowest mortality rates at 0.5%, which has been nationally and globally acknowledged, claimed Sarma, who is also the state health minister.He further said that the vaccination drive to give the people a reasonable safety net is the next objective with a provision of 6.6 lakh vaccine doses."I am happy to inform this august House that more than 1.15 lakh doses inoculations have been conducted till date. In parallel, the fight to keep further waves of this virus from appearing in our state continues," he said.Sarma also said that during the course of the last year, the government set up 1,000 ICU beds and 4,500 regular hospital beds along with a provision of 1,408 ventilators and 4,541 oxygen cylinders for the fight against the pandemic.Besides, he acknowledged the services by the Accredited Social Health Activist (ASHA) workers during the Covid-19 pandemic and recognising their importance, the government decided to enhance the wages of 32,546 ASHA workers by ₹1,000 per month.Sarma said the Covid-19 pandemic not only threatened the lives and health of people, but also resulted in a never- witnessed-before lockdown across the globe, including India, which impacted the GDP."Assam too faced adverse growth figures, especially in the first two quarters of this financial year, and our revenue targets were affected. Our State, however, exhibited exemplary resilience and financial adroitness."I am justifiably proud of the fact that we did not make any deductions in the salaries of our government employees, as had been the case with some other states, and also ensured a timely disbursement of their pensions," the finance minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-gave-assam-rs-262-crore-for-covid-fight-state-finance-minister-101613131726653.html
12-02-2021||India||India has not conceded any territory to China along LAC, says defence ministry||Hours after Congress leader Rahul Gandhi accused the government of ceding Indian territory to the Chinese and raised questions over the agreement with China for disengagement of troops in Pangong lake areas in eastern Ladakh, the ministry of defence issued a strongly-worded statement on Friday.The defence ministry said India has not conceded any territory as a result of the agreement finalised with China and added that the effective safeguarding of country's national interest and territory in the eastern Ladakh sector has taken place because the government reposed full faith in the capabilities of the armed forces."India has not conceded any territory as a result of this agreement. On the contrary, it has enforced observance and respect for LAC (Line of Actual Control) and prevented any unilateral change in the status quo," the defence ministry said in a statement.Also read: India and China start pulling back tanks from southern bank of Pangong LakeThe ministry also asserted that India has persistently maintained the right to patrol up to Finger 8, including in the current understanding with China.Defence minister Rajnath Singh had informed Parliament on Thursday that India and China have reached an agreement on disengagement in the north and south bank of Pangong lake in eastern Ladakh that mandates both sides to cease forward deployment of troops in a "phased, coordinated and verifiable" manner.Singh had said that China will pull back its troops to the east of Finger 8 areas in the northern bank of Pangong lake and the Indian Army will be based at its permanent base at Dhan Singh Thapa Post near Finger 3 in the region.The ministry said on Friday that Indian territory is at Finger 8 and not Finger 4. "The territory of India is as depicted by the map of India and includes more than 43,000 sq km currently under illegal occupation of China since 1962," the defence ministry said.It added: "Even the Line of Actual Control (LAC), as per the Indian perception, is at Finger 8, not at Finger 4. That is why India has persistently maintained the right to patrol up to Finger 8, including in the current understanding with China."Referring to Singh's statement, the defence ministry stated that there are outstanding problems to be addressed, including at Hot Springs, Gogra and Depsang.Also read: Use the Ladakh crisis as an opportunity | Opinion"The outstanding issues are to be taken up within 48 hrs of the completion of the Pangong Tso disengagement," it added.More than nine months after the clash in Galwan Valley, troops of India and China on Wednesday started pulling back armoured elements - tanks and infantry combat vehicles - from heights on the southern bank of Pangong Tso.The withdrawal of the armoured elements from one of the multiple friction points in the east Ladakh sector came nearly a fortnight after military commanders of the two armies agreed on January 24 to push for an early disengagement of their frontline troops.The Chinese defence ministry's website on Wednesday had issued a statement and said the frontline units of Chinese and Indian armed forces have begun to disengage at Pangong lake on February 10 in line with the consensus reached during the ninth round of military commander-level talks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-not-conceded-any-territory-to-china-along-lac-says-defence-ministry-101613126872751.html
12-02-2021||India||Vizag steel privatisation plan snowballs into political issue in Andhra Pradesh||Political parties in Andhra Pradesh are up in arms against the Centre’s proposed privatisation of Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Limited (RINL), popularly known as Vizag Steel Plant (VSP), with the opposition Telugu Desam Party (TDP) and Left parties launching an agitation against it.Tuhin Kanta Pandey, the secretary of the department of investment and public asset management, last week announced that the Cabinet Committee of Economic Affairs had cleared the privatisation of RINL, which employs 34,000-odd people.Ganta Srinivasa Rao, a TDP lawmaker from Visakhapatnam, sent his resignation to assembly speaker Tammineni Sitaram on Friday in protest against the move. Also Read | Jagan writes to PM Modi, requests him to drop plan to privatise Vizag Steel“I am serious and want all the MLAs [members of legislative assembly] and MPs [members of Parliament] of the state pressure on the Centre,” he said. He asked the state government to convene a special assembly session to pass a resolution against the privatisation.TDP leader Palla Srinivasa Rao launched a fast-unto-death at the local party office on Wednesday demanding the Centre withdraw its proposal. K Atchan Naidu, another leader of the party, accused chief minister Jagan Mohan Reddy’s government of being hand in glove with the Centre in privatising the plant.Reddy has written a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi requesting him to withdraw its plan to privatise the RINL and approve a revival package for it.State industries minister Mekapati Gautam Reddy asked the Centre to hand over the project to the state government.Ruling YSR Congress Party (YSRCP) parliamentarian, M V Satyanarayana, also undertook a 24-hour fast against the move. Minister Muthamsetti Srinivasa Rao took part in a sit-in at the steel plant workers against the proposed privatisation on Friday.Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan on Wednesday told Parliament that South Korean steel giant POSCO was keen on acquiring a majority stake in the plant. Pradhan said a non-binding MoU was signed in October 2019 between the RINL and POSCO. Subsequently, a Joint Working Group was formed for the exchange of information. As per the MoU, POSCO wishes to have at least 50% shareholding while the RINL share would be in the form of the land for setting up of the plant, the Union minister said.YSRCP general secretary V Vijay Sai Reddy, who is in charge of the party in Visakhapatnam, held a meeting of all political party leaders barring TDP on Thursday and called the privatisation a conspiracy. He said the YSRC lawmakers will meet Union home minister Amit Shah and submit a representation against the privatisation.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and its alliance partner, Jana Sena, have also expressed concern over the privatisation. “We shall prevail upon the [central] government to drop plan the plan,” BJP leader D Purandeshwari said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vizag-steel-privatisation-plan-snowballs-into-political-issue-in-andhra-pradesh-101613131586653.html
12-02-2021||India||IRCTC site back online after facing ‘technical’ glitches||The Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation’s (IRCTC’s) official website went down on Friday due to technical issues and the issue was resolved later in the day. "Booking is affected due to some technical issue on website. We are working on it and it will get resolved soon," IRCTC said on Twitter.Booking is affected due to some technical issue on website. We are working on it and it will get resolved soon.The IRCTC web portal displayed a message saying the site was undergoing maintenance, asking people to revisit after some time. It also added those who wanted to cancel their bookings can call the customer service number or mail them."Due to maintenance activity e-ticketing service is not available. Please try later," a message displayed on the IRCTC portal read. “For cancellation/file TDR, please call at customer care number 07556610661, 07553934141 or mail at etickets@irctc.co.in," the message added.Technical glitches were resolved and the website was up and running later in the day from 2:45pm.“Issue has been resolved now. Booking restarted from 14:25 hrs,” IRCTC tweeted later.Issue has been resolved now . Booking restarted from 14:25 hrs . https://t.co/k61FOpotGu||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/irctc-site-back-online-after-facing-technical-glitches-101613130093615.html
12-02-2021||India||News updates from HT: Rahul Gandhi asks govt to scrap farm laws before initiating talks and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.'Scrap farm laws first': Rahul Gandhi to PM Modi's offer of talks to farmersThe Centre's three farm laws will render 40% of the people dependent on agriculture jobless and the control will slip into the hands of corporates, said former Congress president Rahul Gandhi. Read MoreIt isn’t Congress’ trademark: Sitharaman tackles oppn criticism over budgetUnion finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Friday tore into the Congress’ criticism of the Union Budget she presented earlier this month, saying it has become the opposition’s habit to constantly accuse the Centre in spite of the steps it is taking for the poor. Read MoreKarnataka: BJP finally pulls up Yatnal for his tirade against CM YediyurappaBasanagouda Ramanagouda Patil (Yatnal), the firebrand Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislator from Vijayapura in Karnataka. Read MoreMP high court grants bail to two co-accused in Munawar Faruqui caseThe Madhya Pradesh high court on Friday granted bail to Prakhar Vyas, 24, and Edwin Anthony, 23. Read MoreThere are very deep discussions around what should happen: Kevin Pietersen comments on Virat Kohli’s captaincySince last year, there has been a lot of debate surrounding the captaincy of Virat Kohli. Read MoreKid mispronounces words while learning, video is adorably hilariousA video of a kid adorably mispronouncing words while learning them has now turned into a source of laughter for many. Read MorePriyanka Chopra braves London winter in ₹1.9 lakh sweater and tracksuitA comfy and cosy cardigan is a winter wardrobe essential. We think so and so does Priyanka Chopra. Read MoreVikram Bhatt says people barged into Anamika set, stalled shoot: ‘My first reaction was to ensure Sunny Leone is safe’Things got out of hand on the sets of Vikram Bhatt’s upcoming web series, Anamika, when a bunch of people from the Fighters’ Association allegedly ‘barged in’. Read MoreWill Dinesh Trivedi join BJP ahead of polls? Kailash Vijayvargiya respondsTMC MP Dinesh Trivedi has resigned from the Rajya Sabha. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-rahul-gandhi-asks-govt-to-scrap-farm-laws-before-initiating-talks-and-all-the-latest-news-101613127144149.html
12-02-2021||India||Not a shock, says Trinamool after Dinesh Trivedi announces resignation||Dinesh Trivedi’s resignation from the Rajya Sabha will give chance to other grassroots leaders, a senior leader of the Trinamool Congress said after the member of Parliament announced he will quit the House on Friday, months ahead of the assembly elections in West Bengal. Saugata Roy, a senior leader of the ruling party in the eastern state, said the party will send another 'grassroots’ worker to the Upper House.“We didn't know he would resign. However, it is not a shock. He was not a grassroots leader and had lost the Lok Sabha elections. Mamata Banerjee sent him to the Rajya Sabha. 'Trinamool' means grassroots. It will give chance to other grassroots workers to emerge,” Roy was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Also watch | Will Dinesh Trivedi join BJP ahead of polls? Kailash Vijayvargiya respondsTrivedi had met the Nationalist Congress Party’s (NCP’s) chief Sharad Pawar and expressed his dissatisfaction, Roy said. "I did not know he (Trivedi) would resign as he did not tell the party as well. He expressed dissatisfaction to Sharad Pawar but nobody encouraged him to resign and this decision came all of a sudden. I spoke to him four to five days back and he did not convey that he will take this extreme step," he was quoted as saying by ANI.Trivedi’s announcement about his resignation, citing his inability to do anything against the violence in his state, comes after a series of exits from Mamata Banerjee's party ahead of the West Bengal assembly elections in April-May. Several leaders of the Trinamool, including Suvendu Adhikari, state minister Rajib Banerjee and a few other Trinamool Congress MLAs, left West Bengal’s ruling party in January and joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Several others have also followed suit."Many people have left the party but it does not have any impact on the TMC. The TMC is not a sinking ship,” Roy said, according to ANI.Soon after Trivedi said he will quit, the BJP’s national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya said he is welcome to join them. “Not just Dinesh Trivedi ji, whoever wants to do honest work, cannot stay in Trinamool Congress. If he wants to join the Bharatiya Janata Party, we will welcome him,” Vijayvargiya said, according to news agency ANI.The assembly elections for 294 seats in West Bengal are scheduled to be held in April-May year. However, the Election Commission of India is yet to declare the dates for the polls.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-a-shock-says-trinamool-after-dinesh-trivedi-announces-resignation-101613129261856.html
12-02-2021||India||Lalu bail: CBI says he’s four months short of serving half term, HC seeks proof||The Jharkhand high court on Friday asked the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to furnish documentary proof within a week in support of its claim that incarcerated Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) chief Lalu Prasad was four months short of serving half of the sentence awarded to him in a corruption case. Prasad will be eligible for bail once he completes half of the term (42 months).The bench of justice Aparesh Kumar Singh, which is hearing Prasad’s bail plea, posted the matter for hearing next on February 19 after the CBI argued he has so far served 37 months and six days in custody and not 42 months.Prasad has been in jail since December 2017 after his conviction in three cases. He has secured bail in two other cases after the completion of half of his sentence. Prasad filed a bail application in the third case in the high court last year. He submitted an affidavit last week saying he has completed half of the sentence in the third case while urging the high court to grant him bail. Prasad said he was airlifted to New Delhi’s All India Institute of Medical Sciences last month after his condition deteriorated.CBI’s lawyer, Rajiv Sinha said, Prasad has submitted the lower court’s orders to show the time he has spent in jail starting from 1997. “But no document is annexed to show when he was actually taken into remand after production. We are going submit every detail along with lower court’s order sheets to prove that he is still to serve over four months in jail to complete half the sentence.”Prasad has been convicted in cases involving the fraudulent withdrawal of ₹3.76 crore from a treasury in the 1990s when he was the chief minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lalu-bail-cbi-says-he-s-four-months-short-of-serving-half-term-hc-seeks-proof-101613128286693.html
12-02-2021||India||Congress picks Mallikarjun Kharge as next Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha||Congress on Friday nominated its senior leader Mallikarjun Kharge as the next Leader of Opposition in the Rajya Sabha in place of Ghulam Nabi Azad. The development was confirmed by House chairperson and vice president M Venkaiah Naidu's office, which received a letter of nomination from the Congress party.The post of the Leader of Opposition in the Upper House will fall vacant after the retirement of Azad on February 15.Kharge, a Dalit politician from Karnataka, was the leader of the Congress in the Lok Sabha from 2014 to 2019. Kharge will be the 17th Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha since December 1969.The grand old party could not get the post of the leader of opposition in the previous and the current Lok Sabha as its numbers were less than the mandated 10 per cent of the total number of seats in the Lower House.Azad was elected to the Rajya Sabha from Jammu and Kashmir in 2015. In his farewell speech on Tuesday, Azad said that he is proud to be an Indian Muslim. "I am among those fortunate people who never went to Pakistan. When I read about circumstances in Pakistan, I feel proud to be a Hindustani Muslim,” he said."If any Muslim should feel proud in the world, it should be the Indian Muslim. Over the years, we have seen how Muslims countries from Afghanistan to Iraq getting destroyed. There are no Hindus or Christians there - they are fighting amongst themselves," he added.An emotional Prime Minister Narendra Modi had bid adieu to Azad, recalling his contribution to the country, the House and also his party. PM Modi also said that the person who will replace Azad as Leader of Opposition "will have difficulty matching his work because he was not only concerned about his party but also about the country and the House".(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-picks-mallikarjun-kharge-as-next-leader-of-opposition-in-rajya-sabha-101613127991183.html
12-02-2021||India||'Scrap farm laws first': Rahul Gandhi to PM Modi's offer of talks to farmers||The Centre's three farm laws will render 40% of the people dependent on agriculture jobless and the control will slip into the hands of corporates, said former Congress president Rahul Gandhi joining a kisan mahapanchayat in Rajasthan as part of the party's support to the farmers' protest against the laws passed in September.The Congress leader urged the Centre to scrap the three agricultural laws before further talks with farmers - who have been camping at Delhi border points for two months seeking a statutory guarantee on minimum support prices, or MSP, and pushing for repeal of the new laws."PM Modi says in Parliament that he wants to talk to the farmers but what talks do you want with farmers? End these laws first and then farmers will talk to you."You are snatching away land and the future of the farmers and asking for talks with them, there is no need for talks. First cancel these farm laws and then talk to farmers," he said at Pilibanga in Hanumangarh district at krishi upaj mandi.Defending the farm laws in Parliament, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said that the new laws are not binding on the farmers and that they are free to sell their produce anywhere in the country. The PM again invited them for talks, underlining that reform in the agriculture sector was the need of the hour.The Congress will stand with farmers, poor and workers and will ensure these farm laws are withdrawn, stressed Rahul Gandhi, adding that the Modi government wants to give control of agriculture into the hands of some corporates."Agriculture protects food security of the country and India's 40% people are dependent on agriculture which means crores of people are part of it, including small traders, workers, commission agents and others. The Congress has always tried that this business should not go to a single entity and it should stay in the hands of 40% people", said the Congress leader."The first law says any big businessman can buy unlimited crops from any farmer in the country... If any person can buy all the crops then there will remain no need for any mandi so the first law means to kill mandi,” Gandhi said explaining the laws.Such a law would allow businessmen to hoard and control the prices of agricultural commodities, he said.“Hoarding is unlawful but when this second law will be enforced then unlimited hoarding will begin and India's biggest businessmen will do it,” alleged Gandhi.Gandhi stressed that the third law will limit farmers’ ability to seek justice when the right price for his crops is denied to him."The aim of these three farm laws is to give control of agriculture into the hands of two businessmen," alleged Gandhi without naming the businessmen.The first attack on farmers, workers and small traders was made through demonetisation, claimed Rahul Gandhi, adding that it robbed poor people of their money.The GST was the second assault on the small and medium size businesses as the government wants to clear way for its corporate friends, claimed Rahul."Small and middle size traders have still not understood GST as there are five different tax slabs and their business is ruined," said Gandhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/scrap-farm-laws-first-rahul-gandhi-to-pm-modi-s-offer-of-talks-to-farmers-101613127779513.html
12-02-2021||India||China’s actions have led to confrontation, mutual distrust: Army chief||China’s rising footprint in India’s neighbourhood, coupled with that country’s attempts to unilaterally alter the status quo along disputed borders, has led to confrontation and mutual distrust, army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane said on Friday. His comments, at a seminar on evolving security challenges in the country’s North-east and the way forward, come at a time when disengagement between Indian and Chinese troops is underway in the Pangong Tso area of eastern Ladakh. Experts said China’s actions were aimed at curtailing India’s leadership role in the region. “China’s aggressive behaviour along the Line of Actual Control as part of its strategy of military coercion, and increased footprint and investments in India’s neighborhood aim at restricting India strategic space and leadership role,” said Lieutenant General Vinod Bhatia (retd), a former director general of military operations. The army chief said the regional security environment was characterised by Chinese belligerence in the Indo-Pacific, Beijing’s hostility towards weaker nations and its relentless drive to create regional dependencies through steps such as the multi-billion-dollar Belt and Road Initiative (BRI)– a state-backed global infrastructure development project covering scores of countries. Also Read | Need punch to offensive poise, says army chief amid ‘newer threats’Since it was unveiled in 2013 by President Xi Jinping, BRI has expanded to cover a vast swath of territory from South America to the Arctic, and includes plans to build a vast network of highways, ports, power plants, pipelines and other infrastructure. Both India and the United States oppose BRI because it favours Chinese firms and Beijing employs predatory lending practices. “The resultant Sino-US rivalry has created regional imbalances and instability,” Naravane said.  Regional and internal connectivity is acutely linked to security, and it is central to unleashing the potential of the North-east and balancing the influence of China, the army chief said. “Failure to deliver on promises has plagued our efforts at improving regional connectivity. The (India-backed) Kaladan multi-modal transport project (in Myanmar) and the trilateral highway (India-Myanmar-Thailand) have both seen cost and time overruns,” Naravane said.He said a renewed focus on the North-east was in order in the wake of the ongoing security dynamics across India’s borders and the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. “Although endowed with natural resources, the North-east is a laggard in growth and development. Protracted insurgencies, legacy issues further accentuated after partition and inefficient integration with rest of India account for much of what the region faces today,” Naravane said. He said the security situation in the North-east had improved significantly and two army divisions had been pulled out of counter-insurgency and internal security duties, and were now solely focused on their operational role along the northern borders. “This has been a significant achievement. The operational responsibility of these areas has now been taken over by the Assam Rifles,” he said. The move will help the army focus on the borders and train for conventional operations. Several parliamentary panels have made recommendations in their reports to reduce the army’s exposure to counter-insurgency and counter-terrorism duties because it results in blunting the force’s focus on its main task - defending the country from external aggression.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chinas-actions-have-led-to-confrontation-mutual-distrust-army-chief-101613126606372.html
12-02-2021||India||‘40% would be unemployed’: Rahul Gandhi jabs farm laws at ‘mahapanchayat'||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday once again took on Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the central government over farmers’ issues as well as the disengagement plan by Indian and Chinese troops in eastern Ladakh amid a months-long border row between the two countries. Gandhi, who had on Thursday explained the ‘content’ and ‘intent’ of the three farm laws in the Lok Sabha, addressed a ‘Kisan Mahapanchayat’ in Rajasthan’s Pilibanga.“I gave a speech in Parliament yesterday on the three central agricultural laws brought by PM Modi and explained the content and intend behind them. Today, I’m going to once again tell you why these laws have been introduced,” Gandhi said, addressing his audience.Also Read | Congress' Rahul Gandhi slams ‘intent, content’ of farm lawsAgriculture is the largest ‘business’ in India, and globally, the Congress leader said, explaining that this is because it provides food to crores of people across the world.“Forty per cent of India’s population runs this business in the country. These include farmers, labourers, small shopkeepers, businessmen and arthiyas. Congress has always tried to ensure that the business is never controlled by just one person,” Gandhi said.He added that the media won’t explain this to them because it belongs to ‘those very same people who want to snatch agriculture from the 40% people.’ The first law will destroy the mandis, the former Congress president explained. The second law, he said, means that any wealthy person can hoard agricultural products for an unlimited duration of time and thus control their rates. “The third law says that the farmer cannot go to court if he asks for the right price for his produce,” Gandhi said, reiterating his allegation that the aim behind these laws is to ‘transfer agriculture into the hands of these two to three wealthy businessmen.’“This is an attack not on farmers but on 40% of India’s population. It is just that the farmer is aware and he has already realised this. He can see the future that if these laws are implemented, his land is gone,” the MP from Kerala’s Wayanad stressed.Recalling the coronavirus pandemic, he said that when labourers begged PM Modi for a ticket to return to their homes, he refused. “The first step was demonetisation, second GST, third was Covid-19 and the fourth was these three laws. The goal is to snatch employment from 40% people,” Gandhi said, once again vowing that the Congress will make sure that the legislations are repealed.After criticising the Prime Minister over the Ladakh disengagement plan earlier in the day, Gandhi once again accused the government of ceding Indian territory to China. “China entered India, snatched our territory and killed our soldiers. Yesterday, the defence minister said in Parliament and said that an agreement has been reached. The agreement is that Narendra Modi has handed over India’s sacred territory to China,” he said.Also Read | ‘This isn’t give and take’: Rahul Gandhi attacks PM Modi over China border pactDefence minister Rajnath Singh had briefed Parliament about the agreement between the Indian Army and China’s People’s Liberation Army that could end the months-long standoff. Singh had said that under this agreement, the Chinese PLA will retreat to its base east of Finger 8 on the north bank of Pangong Tso and the Indian Army will move back to its permanent position near Finger 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/40-would-be-unemployed-rahul-gandhi-jabs-farm-laws-at-mahapanchayat-101613124426732.html
12-02-2021||India||12 dead, 36 injured as fire breaks out in factory in Tamil Nadu’s Sivakasi||At least 12 people were killed and 36 others critically injured on Friday after a fire broke out in a firecracker factory in Sivakasi area of Tamil Nadu's Virudhnagar, news agency ANI reported. The rescue operations after the fire broke out at around 11.45am are still underway, officials have said.They said that 28 of the critically injured people, out of which four have more than 90% burns, have been admitted to the Satur Government Hospital. Three people have been taken to Kovilpatti Government Hospital and six to Sivakasi Government Hospital, the officials added. “One person died during treatment,” a senior health official in Virudhunagar said requesting anonymity.Five special medical teams have been deployed to take care of those injured. Medical assistance has been sought from neighbouring Madurai district too, officials said.According to the initial reports, the fire erupted due to friction as workers were handling chemicals in the factory.Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced compensation from the Prime Minister National Relief Fund of ₹200,000 to the family of those killed in the fire and ₹50,000 to those who have been severely injured. “Fire at a firecracker factory in Virudhunagar, Tamil Nadu is saddening. In this hour of grief, my thoughts are with the bereaved families. I hope those injured recover soon. Authorities are working on the ground to assist those affected,” the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) tweeted.Tamil Nadu chief minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami also announced ex-gratia of ₹3 lakh to the family of those who died in the fire and ₹1 lakh for those critically injured, ANI reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/6-dead-as-fire-breaks-out-in-a-factory-in-tamil-nadu-s-virudhnagar-reports-ani-101613124936178.html
12-02-2021||India||LJD MP Shreyams Kumar slams Centre for 'reduced' allocation of funds to MNREGA||Loktantrik Janata Dal (LJD) MP MV Shreyams Kumar on Friday attacked the government in Rajya Sabha for "reducing" the allocation of funds to MNREGA saying the next budget could be the "last nail in the coffin" of the rural employment guarantee scheme.He also criticised the government for reduced funds for the healthcare sector and for women empowerment in the union budget. Participating in the debate on the budget, Kumar hit out at the government for privatisation of LIC and the lack of efforts on its part to bail out BSNL. He alleged government's apathy towards MNREGA scheme and said the lower allocation indicates that the next next budget could be the end of the scheme. "The budget has shown 'krodha' (anger), 'mada' (false pride or ego) and 'matsarya' (envy or jealousy) on the flagship programme of the UPA government and the world's largest rural employment guarantee programme - MNREGA with a reduced allocation of ₹38,500 crore i.e., a 34% reduction," he said in the Upper House. If this is any indication, the "next budget will be the last nail in the coffin of MNREGA", he added. Talking about budget outlay for the health sector, Kumar said the allocation is lower than the revised estimate of this fiscal year. "The finance minister claims that there is an increase of 137% in the budget outlay for health. This is nothing but a jugglery of figures," he charged. The budget estimate for health is ₹74,602 crore only, which actually is lower by ₹7,843 crore i.e., lower by 9.5% than the revised estimate, he added.Similarly, there is a 95% reduction for Women Empowerment Mission, Kumar said.Attacking the government, he said the proposal for privatising the largest and most trusted insurance company in India - LIC - and sale of central PSUs two public sector banks and one general insurance company militates against the establishment of a socialistic pattern of society envisaged by the country's founding fathers. "Article 39 (c) of the Constitution provides for regulating the economic system of the country so as to prevent concentration of wealth and resources in a few hands," he noted. Kumar said that no attempt has been made in the budget to strengthen or bailout a struggling giant like BSNL. "When the whole world is going digital, BSNL could play a vital role in improving connectivity especially in the rural areas of the country. The neglect shown by the Union Budget is the last straw on the camel's back as far as an ailing BSNL is concerned," he noted. Kumar said the Budget has no strategy for increasing revenues. "With a poor track record in generating non-tax revenues, the BJP government's budget makes several false and lofty promises for increased spending on infrastructure etc with hardly anything at hand to spend," he added. The MP also questioned the rationale of continued suspension of MPLADS."Kerala from which I am from, continues with the Special Development fund for MLAs. So, do other states like Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu. We are approached by our constituents for small works in the local area. It is a paradox that what the MLAs in the states could do, the MPs cannot do," he said. Kumar said the finance minister has eyed on the ensuing elections in West Bengal, Kerala, Assam and Tamil Nadu and promised allocation for road infrastructure. "The people in these states cannot be swayed away by the 'moha' (delusion) created by the finance minister," he noted. Kumar said the government overlooked several demands of Kerala in the Budget."Even though ₹1,000 crore were allocated for the welfare of tea workers in Assam and West Bengal, Kerala is totally ignored. Kerala produces 60.76 million kilograms of tea every year and is ranked fourth in India," he said.Smilarly, Kerala's demand for Trivandrum-Kasaragode semi high speed rail project, setting up of All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Sabari Rail project, which aims to put the hill shrine into the railway network have been totally ignored, Kumar said.Besides, the long pending demand for special railway zone for Kerala has also not been considered, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ljd-mp-shreyams-kumar-slams-centre-for-reduced-allocation-of-funds-to-mnrega-101613124500288.html
12-02-2021||India||Lake formation upstream of Rishiganga likely to drain in coming days: Geologists||Geologists have warned that a lake has formed upstream of Rishiganga valley which could flow out gradually, impacting rescue efforts downstream.“There is a place where Rontighat or Ronti river meets Rishiganga. The debris that fell with the glacier breach on February 7 has blocked the Rishiganga water there, creating a lake. A geologist, Naresh Rana, went to the place to physically inspect it with the help of villagers. Satellite images have also confirmed lake formation. The water will definitely spill as the lake is full now. We have been informed that authorities are trying to drain the water so that rescue work can resume after that,” said Navin Juyal, retired geologist from the Physical Research Laboratory, Ahmedabad.“The lake will not collapse but it will gradually drain, which can be dangerous for those engaged in rescue work,” Juyal added.“Day before yesterday, when we found out about the lake formation, we had informed the sub divisional magistrate, divisional magistrate and vice chancellor of Hemwati Nandan Bahuguna Garhwal University, where I am working. We were hoping that the Indo-Tibetan Border Police or other rescue agencies can give it way manually so that the water and debris come down gradually because if it topples, it can be very dangerous. The good thing is water has started draining from the dam. But the fear of toppling exists. The agencies have been informed,” said geologist and professor YP Sundriyal.Juyal explained that some boulders in the higher reaches are as big as a house. “It is understood from various satellite images and aerial surveys that rocks and boulders from Nanda Ghunti or Trishul, the two peaks here, have fallen on the glacier. There was no lake on the surface of the glacier but there may have been subsurface water bodies. The glacier surface along with ice, water, debris, fell on February 7. Because of the remoteness of the region, studying it manually is very difficult.”The India Meteorological Department , meanwhile, warned that a fresh feeble Western Disturbance is likely to impact the Western Himalayas from February 14 to 16. There is likely to be light rainfall (up to 1 cm) and snowfall (up to 10 cm) in the northern parts of Uttarakhand, including Chamoli district, during that period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lake-formation-upstream-of-rishiganga-likely-to-drain-in-coming-daysgeologists-101613124686405.html
12-02-2021||India||Vithura rape case: Prime accused awarded 24 years imprisonment||A court in Kerala’s Kottayam on Friday sentenced a man to 24 years in prison for raping a girl and forcing her into prostitution two years after he was rearrested after absconding twice since the matter came to light in 1996.Judge Johnson John also slapped a ₹10,900 fine on Suresh alias SM Shahjehan and said the convict did not deserve any sympathy. Also Read | SC lets off rape accused after he agrees to marry complainant in 6 monthsSuresh was booked along with 40 others after the girl was arrested from a hotel in Ernakulam with a man and told the police she was forced into prostitution. According to the prosecution, the girl was 17-year-old when one of her relatives offered her a job. The relative took her to Suresh, who repeatedly raped her, confined her to his house, and forced her into prostitution.After the police registered 40-odd cases against him, Suresh managed to escape while the relative died in an accident during the trial. He absconded for 18 years and surrendered in 2014 only to escape again in 2016. Suresh was arrested from Hyderabad in 2019, where he was living under a false identity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vithura-rape-case-prime-accused-awarded-24-years-imprisonment-101613124506319.html
12-02-2021||India||Farm laws will bring investments, create employment: Petroleum Minister||Union Petroleum Minister Dharmendra Pradhan on Friday said the new farm laws will bring investments, new technologies and create employment.Addressing a gathering organised by BJP's youth wing to highlight the salient features of the Union Budget, Pradhan said the Rural Infrastructure Development Fund of ₹40,000 crore will open new doors for agrarian development.Noting that the Union Budget was brought at a difficult time when the economy was hit by the Covid-19 pandemic, the minister asserted that the Narendra Modi government has empowered the farmers and workers. The minister's remark come in the backdrop of protest by thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, at various border points of Delhi since late November last year against the Centre's new farm laws.Pradhan urged Delhi BJP leaders to hold discussions over the provisions of Budget with various sections of the society, including slum dwellers, street vendors and resident welfare associations, and try to know their aspirations.The budget allocation for the health sector has been increased by 137 per cent as compared to last year, he said."The Health budget has a provision of ₹35,000 crore. We have been helping several countries with the corona vaccine which is in line with the philosophy of Vasudhaiv Kutumbakam," said the minister.The economic strength of a country depends on innovation and technology and the budget has also focussed on it, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-laws-will-bring-investments-create-employment-petroleum-minister-101613124150119.html
12-02-2021||India||SC upholds NGT’s order asking Goa govt to notify private land as forest||The Supreme Court has dismissed an appeal filed by the Goa government challenging a decision of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) which had, back in 2018, ordered it to notify 46 square kilometres of land as a private forest. In a brief order, the bench of Justices Rohinton Fali Nariman and Aniruddha Bose said, “We find no ground to interfere with the impugned order passed by the Tribunal. The appeal is, accordingly, dismissed.”In 2018, the NGT ordered the Goa government to notify an area of 46.11 square kilometres of privately owned land as private forest, bringing to a close an over two-decade old saga in which various committees were set up seeking to include or exclude privately held land forests in Goa and give them statutory protection. Also Read | Supreme Court issues notice to Andhra Pradesh on Odisha contempt pleaThe NGT order came on a petition filed by Goa Foundation alleging that the state was dragging its feet on demarcating private forests. The organisation based its plea on a 1997 SC direction to the states to identify areas which are “forests”, irrespective of whether they are so notified, recognised or classified under any law, and irrespective of their ownership.Privately held lands spread across five hectares or more, contiguous with or near existing protected forests and with more than 75% of the trees of forest species are to be earmarked as private forests.However, the Goa government resisted doing so, claiming that such notification was prejudicial to the owners of these lands and had, instead, appointed revenue officer Anthony D’Souza to file a report. In his report, D’Souza recommended identification of land as private forest can be done only if the entire survey holding of the affected party is demarcated and taken up for tree count and had sought that no final notification be issued.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-upholds-ngt-s-order-asking-goa-govt-to-notify-private-land-as-forest-101613123966479.html
12-02-2021||India||Lufthansa terminates services of 103 India-based flight attendants||Lufthansa has terminated the services of 103 India-based flight attendants after they allegedly sought "job assurance" from the management while the German airlines group had offered them leave without pay option for two years,sources close to the developments said.These employees had been working on a fixed-term contract with the airline and some of them were with the carrier for more than 15 years, the sources added.In a statement to PTI, a Lufthansa spokesperson said that severe financial impact of the coronavirus pandemic leaves it with no choice but to restructure the airline and as part of that "it will not be extending the fixed-term employment contracts of its Delhi-based flight attendants".However, Lufthansa did not provide details on the number of flight attendants who have been terminated.According to the spokesperson, Indian cabin crew with unlimited contracts remain unaffected from restructuring as it "was able to reach individual agreements with these flight attendants"."Lufthansa regrets to confirm that it will not be extending the fixed-term employment contracts of its Delhi-based flight attendants. The severe financial impact of the coronavirus pandemic leaves Lufthansa no choice but to restructure the airline. This includes personnel-related measures in Germany and Europe as well as in key international markets like India," the statement said.Given our current cash burn of several hundred million euros every month, Lufthansa – like all airlines worldwide – must take steps to secure its future, it said, adding that "since we must plan with 150 fewer aircraft in the long run (by 2025) it follows that required cabin staff in all our markets is also affected."Even now, the statement said that low demand for international air travel resulting particularly from government restrictions leaves cabin staff with little or no work left to do."We exhausted every possible option and had even already reached an agreement with the Indian union we were in close consultation at all times. It would have avoided compulsory redundancies for our cabin staff."We had signed an agreement with the Indian union providing for two years of unpaid leave, with Lufthansa continuing to provide the local health insurance – even for enrolled family members," the statement said.Further, Lufthansa said it was willing to "absorb" all associated premiums during this period but "unfortunately, consent to the agreement was revoked by the union on December 31.The sources, however, alleged that Lufthansa terminated the services of 103 Delhi-based flight attendants on fixed-term contracts overnight, without serving any prior notice to them, citing the coronavirus pandemic."These terminations happened overnight without giving any prior notice. Some of these terminated people had been employed for nearly 15 years... The management had wanted us to proceed on leave without pay for two years. We had agreed for it but wanted job assurance after the completion of the LWP period," as per the sources.According to Lufthansa's statement, not being able to reach an agreement for cabin crew with fixed-term employment contracts has forced it to take this step as part of an inevitable restructuring of Lufthansa Group."It should be noted that this restructuring is not limited to India but affects all our worldwide markets and to a great extent includes our home markets, especially Germany. However, there we were able to reach initial agreements with unions to help weather the crisis," the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lufthansa-terminates-services-of-103-india-based-flight-attendants-101613122918940.html
12-02-2021||India||It isn’t Congress’ trademark: Sitharaman tackles oppn criticism over budget||Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Friday tore into the Congress’ criticism of the Union Budget she presented earlier this month, saying it has become the opposition’s habit to constantly accuse the Centre in spite of the steps it is taking for the poor. Sitharaman said that the Union Budget 2021-22 is the instrument through which Aatmanirbhar Bharat is to be attained."It's a budget which clearly draws on the experience, the administrative capacities and also exposure that the Prime Minister had during his long elected tenure, both as CM and as PM of this country, known for his commitment towards development, growth, and reforms. So these three things are essentially infused in the budget which is now speaking for itself in the sense that it is the instrument through which Aatmanirbhar Bharat is to be attained,” the finance minister said in the Rajya Sabha.Also watch | ‘When Finance Minister is not Atmanirbhar..’: Congress mocks Sitharaman in RSSitharaman said the government is also looking at "long term sustainable growth" besides providing 'quick short term solutions’. “So post-pandemic and post-global contraction, economies have suffered across the world. And as I said in my budget speech the attempt made in this budget is to provide strong stimulus, to provide such a stimulus which can bring in a multiplier effect and therefore instead of finding quick short term solutions, even as we provide short term quick relief for those people who so desperately need it," she said."We are looking at medium term, long term sustainable growth, which will keep India in that kind of growth trajectory which will maintain us as one of the fastest-growing economies in the world," she added.Also read | For the rich, of the rich, by the rich’: Chidambaram tears into Union BudgetSitharaman also said that 800 million people were provided free food grains, 80 million were given free cooking gas and 400 million, including farmers, women, Divyangs and the poor, were given cash directly. "Over 1.67 crore houses completed under PM Awas Yojana. Is it for the rich? Over 2.67 crore households electrified under PM Saubhagya Yojana since '17 October. The total value of orders placed on Govt e-market is ₹8,22,077 crores. Are they being given to big companies? They are being given to MSMEs," she said.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi had said Union Budget 2021-22 was "crony centric", which "betrays" the employers of the ministry of micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs). "Modi's crony centric budget means - Struggling MSMEs given no low-interest loans, no GST relief. The employers of India's largest workforce betrayed," Gandhi has tweeted on February 4.On her part, Sitharaman said on Friday that a false narrative is created to say that this government “works only for cronies." “’Damad', I didn't think is the trademark of Indian National Congress. Damad har ghar mein hota hai. Magar Damad Indian National Congress mein ek specialised naam hai,” Sitharaman said in the Rajya Sabha. “Loans sanctioned under Mudra Yojana - more than ₹27,000 crore. Who takes Mudra Yojana? Damads?” she also asked.(With Agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/it-isn-t-congress-trademark-sitharaman-tackles-oppn-criticism-over-budget-101613123144953.html
12-02-2021||India||Welcome to join BJP: Vijaywargiya after Dinesh Trivedi says wants to quit RS||Moments after Trinamool Congress’ Dinesh Trivedi announced his resignation from the Rajya Sabha on Friday, Bharatiya Janata Party leader Kailash Vijaywargiya said he is welcome to join the BJP. “Not just Dinesh Trivedi ji, whoever wants to do honest work, cannot stay in Trinamool Congress. If he wants to join the Bharatiya Janata Party, we will welcome him,” Vijayvargiya, the BJP's national general secretary, was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Trivedi’s dramatic announcement came while he was participating in the debate on the Union Budget and said he feels suffocated in the House as he is unable to do anything about the ongoing violence in West Bengal. “If you sit here quietly and cannot do anything, then it is better that you resign from here and go to the land of Bengal and be with people," he said in the Upper House. "What I mean to say is the way violence is taking place in our state. Sitting here, I am feeling perplexed as to what should I do," he added.Also watch: TMC's Dinesh Trivedi announces resignation in Rajya SabhaThe Trinamool lawmaker said he is unable to bear the incidents that are happening in West Bengal. "I am grateful to my party that it has sent me here, but now I feel a little suffocated. We are unable to do anything and there is an atrocity (going on). My voice of conscience is saying what Swami Vivekananda used to say - 'Arise, awake and stop not till the goal is reached'," Trivedi said.However, the Rajya Sabha deputy chairman Harivansh Narayan Singh said there is a due process for resigning from the House and asked Trivedi to submit his resignation in writing to the House chairperson.Trivedi’s announcement of resignation comes ahead of the assembly elections in West Bengal, which are expected to be April-May this year. It also comes after a clutch of leaders from the Trinamool, including Suvendu Adhikary, Rajib Banerjee and a few Trinamool MLAs, quit West Bengal’s ruling party and joined the BJP.The Trinamool party issued a statement after “Trivedi’s announcement. “Trinamool means grassroots. This will give us an opportunity to send one of our "grassroots" workers soon to the Rajya Sabha,” the Mamata Banerjee-led party said in the statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/welcome-to-join-bjp-vijaywargiya-after-dinesh-trivedi-says-wants-to-quit-rs-101613121295823.html
12-02-2021||India||Trinamool's Dinesh Trivedi quits as MP, says ‘feel suffocated’||Former Union rail minister and senior Rajya Sabha MP Dinesh Trivedi announced his resignation from the Rajya Sabha while participating in the debate on Union Budget as he felt “suffocated”.Trivedi’s announcement of resignation comes weeks after politically heavyweight Suvendu Adhikari, minister Rajib Banerjee and a few other Trinamool Congress MLAs quit West Bengal’s ruling party and joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). West Bengal elections are expected in April-May.Trivedi said “motherland is supreme”, cited his antaratma (inner voice) and his inability to speak about the “violence” and the “situation” in West Bengal and said “there is no point to just sit here and remain silent”.Also Read |  Left calls 12-hour bandh in West Bengal. All you need to know“The way there is violence, I feel awkward what should I do by sitting here. In reality, we are for our homeland. I am in a party. Party has disciplines. But now I am feeling suffocated. I am grateful to my party for sending me here. Swami Vivekananda had said, ‘arise and awake’. If I am sitting here and can’t do anything, it’s better that I resign and go back to Bengal,” he said.To be sure, the explosive announcement doesn’t automatically result in his resignation. As deputy chairman Harivansh said, Trivedi has to write a letter in the prescribed format and submit it to chairman Venkaiah Naidu.Trivedi is a prominent face of the Trinamool Congress to reach out to non-Bengali voters who constitute a huge section of Kolkata and North 24 Parganas’ population. According to party grapevine, Trivedi is also one of the key fund managers of the party.Trinamool Congress was clearly taken aback. It, however, issued a statement saying, “Trinamool means grassroots. This will give us an opportunity to send one of our ‘grassroot’ workers soon to the Rajya Sabha.”Trivedi also cited his brief tenure in the rail ministry and the presentation of the budget. He said, “Even at that time, I had listened to my inner voice and kept the interests of the motherland supreme.”His budget that proposed a hike in passenger fare left West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee so furious that he had to resign that same evening. Mukul Roy, his replacement, replied to the budget debate in Parliament.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajya-sabha-tmc-s-dinesh-trivedi-announces-resignation-says-feel-suffocated-101613121686509.html
12-02-2021||India||Twitter blocks 97% of accounts, posts flagged by IT Ministry||Twitter has blocked over 97% of the accounts and posts flagged by the IT Ministry for provocative content and misinformation around farmers' protest, sources said.This followed a meeting between Twitter representatives and the Information Technology Secretary on Wednesday evening where the US-based microblogging platform was issued a stern warning to comply with local laws or be prepared for action.The Ministry had questioned Twitter's delay in taking action on its order to block provocative content that could impact public law and order, whereas the American company had been quick to crack down when a similar instance occurred at US Capitol Hill.According to the sources, Twitter has now complied with the orders and over 97% of the accounts flagged have been blocked.Twitter did not respond to queries on the matter.On February 4, Twitter was asked to take down 1,178 accounts with links to Pakistan and Khalistan supporters that were spreading misinformation and provocative content related to farmers' protest.Prior to that, the government had sought blocking of 257 tweets and handles in connection with the agitation by farmers over the new agricultural laws. Twitter had complied with the orders only to restore the accounts hours later.Twitter on Wednesday morning had said it has suspended over 500 accounts and blocked access to several others within India, but maintained that it would not block accounts of "news media entities, journalists, activists and politicians" as doing so "would violate their fundamental right to free expression" guaranteed under the country's law.It, however, yielded to the orders later after the crucial meeting on Wednesday evening.In a statement after the meeting, IT Ministry had stated that the microblogging platform had been asked to take strong action against "well-coordinated" campaigns "designed to create disharmony and unrest" in the country.Monique Meche, Twitter Vice President Global Public Policy and Jim Baker, Deputy General Counsel and Vice President Legal, had affirmed Twitter's commitment towards following Indian laws and rules.The executives had also requested for better engagement between the Indian government and the company's global team. Sources said Twitter's latest move to block the flagged accounts is itself a validation that the government's orders were backed by sound reasoning and logic.The government had made it clear that it will not negotiate with the platforms while insisting on compliance with its orders as it believed that a private commercial entity in India cannot unilaterally decide on public law and order, ignoring the democratic values of the country.IT Ministry was of the view that Twitter, being an intermediary, was required to take immediate action after receiving the government's notice to block handles, but did not move with haste to take down "atrocious" hashtags and "incendiary" content even amid a volatile situation.IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad had recently emphasised that the government is all for freedom of speech and expression and that it remains investor-friendly, but disrespecting democratic values is not acceptable.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/twitter-blocks-97-of-accounts-posts-flagged-by-it-ministry-101613121276706.html
12-02-2021||India||PM Modi to inauguarate Nasscom's annual event on tech for 'better normal'||IT industry body Nasscom on Friday said its annual NTLF event this year will focus on the road ahead for a hyper-digital future and the importance of responsible tech, and will be inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.The 29th edition of NTLF (Nasscom Technology and Leadership Forum)- which will be held online for the first time in its history - is scheduled for February 17-19.The Prime Minister will be addressing the inaugural session at the forum this year.Speaking to PTI, Nasscom Senior Vice-President and Chief Strategy Officer Sangeeta Gupta said 2020 - with the pandemic - has been a disruptive year across industries and sectors alike."However, it also brought technology to the forefront of business like never before. Adoption of digital technologies has accelerated at a rapid pace and technology is playing a critical role in how we live, work, and communicate in this new normal," she said.Gupta noted that this shift has also made organisations re-write the playbooks on aspects like trust and ethics, privacy, culture, future of work, and responsible use and build of tech."NTLF 2021's overarching theme is 'shaping the future towards a better normal'. It aims to achieve three key objectives – celebrating technology that has served as a backbone for businesses during the crisis, draw a roadmap for the way ahead towards building a hyper-digital future, and bring out the importance of trust and responsible tech in this hyper virtual world," she added.Gupta said the event will create a collaborative learning experience where industry leaders will discuss some of the pressing topics such as the role of leadership in the new normal; opportunities that lie ahead; embedding the values of organisational culture; and will discuss trends in emerging areas like healthcare, energy, cybersecurity, among others.The three-day event will have stalwarts from the Indian and global technology industry, C-level executives and expert academics, including Arvind Krishna (IBM Chairman and CEO), Chuck Robbins (Cisco Chairman and CEO), Eric S Yuan (Zoom founder and CEO), Julie Sweet (Accenture CEO) and Steve Brown (Futurist, Author and Motivational Speaker).Aiman Ezzat (Capgemini Group CEO), Anant Maheshwari (Microsoft India President), Salil Parekh (Infosys CEO and MD), Thierry Delaporte (Wipro CEO and MD), C Vijayakumar (HCL Technologies President and CEO), Keshav R Murugesh (WNS Group CEO) and Tiger Tyagarajan (Genpact CEO) and other renowned dignitaries will also attend the event.The virtual forum is expected to witness over 16,000 attendees across over 50 sessions and will host more than 65 practitioners, subject matter experts and leaders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-inauguarate-nasscom-s-annual-event-on-tech-for-better-normal-101613120726258.html
12-02-2021||India||Khelo India: Controversial order to cancel pre-bookings of tourists in Gulmarg||Authorities in Baramulla district of Jammu and Kashmir on Friday withdrew an order asking hotels to cancel pre-bookings at the famous ski-resort of Gulmarg to accommodate participants of Khelo India National Winter Games after the move drew sharp criticism.The order was withdrawn a day after it was issued by the additional deputy commissioner of Baramulla.“The order has been withdrawn,” Deputy Commissioner, Baramulla, Mohammad Aijaz Asad told PTI.The move had drawn sharp reaction from the National Conference which termed it as “mindless application of government writ".Asad said there was no need for such an order to be issued in the first place. “It was not required,” he added.Another official in the administration said the hoteliers had already committed to reserve the rooms for the games’ period and, as such, there was no requirement for such an order which only created a controversy.The order had asked hoteliers to accommodate athletes and officials and cancel pre-bookings of tourists from February 25 to March 3.Also read| Jammu and Kashmir to get 1st impact-based flood forecasting systemIn a letter to the sub-divisional magistrate, Gulmarg, the additional deputy commissioner had asked him to ensure that boarding and lodging facilities are provided to the athletes and officials during the event.“Further, all pre-bookings, if any, on this account may be cancelled,” the letter read.The week-long games are scheduled to start on February 25.The letter had also been sent to president of Hoteliers’ Club Gulmarg chapter Mukhtar Ahmad Shah for compliance.NC vice president and former chief minister Omar Abdullah had criticised the order, saying it was “mindless application of government writ".“The games are a welcome addition to our calendar but it’s mindless application of government writ when the games become a reason to cancel hotel bookings & inconvenience tourists who have booked flights & made their plans well in advance,” he tweeted.Another NC leader Tanvir Sadiq had also targeted the administration for the move."Khelo India games are all well & good but why at the cost of our regular tourists? What sort of tourism promotion policy is this where the government forces bookings to be cancelled? Spare a thought for those people who booked rooms weeks ago only to be told they aren't welcome,” he said in a tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/khelo-india-controversial-order-to-cancel-pre-bookings-of-tourists-in-gulmarg-101613117129785.html
12-02-2021||India||Ahead of 2022 panchayat polls, BJD gets its electoral machinery moving||The Biju Janata Dal (BJD) has thrown its full organisational weight behind winning largely inconsequential by-polls to zilla and gram panchayats, and for panchayat samiti and ward member posts as it prepares to counter the Bharatiya Janata Party’s rise in the state ahead of the 2022 panchayat polls.On Thursday, Union home minister Amit Shah while addressing BJP's social media meet said a victory for the party in Bengal polls would pave the way for electoral victories in Odisha, Telangana and the rest of India. While the BJP election machinery has often steamrolled rivals in most states, beating the BJD is unlikely to be a cakewalk, its deployment in the by-polls suggests.On Thursday and Friday, by-polls in two zilla parishad zones in Mayurbhanj and Angul district, 17 sarpanch posts in as many gram panchayats were held along with for five posts of panchayat samitis and 92 ward members in 10 districts due to deaths and resignations of the existing representatives. Yet, the BJD has deputed its MPs, MLAs and ministers with the direction to ensure a 100% result.In the tribal-dominated Mayurbhanj district, the by-polls are being held in a zilla parishad zone in Saraskana assembly constituency, while in Angul district it is being held in Parjang assembly constituency. Though the BJP commands supreme majority after winning 50 of the 56 zilla parishads in 2017 panchayatiraj polls, the BJD has still mobilised its workers to win the lone zilla parishad post.In another sign of its intent, in Angul district, where the regional party commands a majority, having won 16 of the 28 zilla parishad zones, yet it has sent its Dhenkanal MP as well as local MLAs to campaign."In Mayurbhanj district, revenue minister Sudam Marandi as well as several senior party functionaries have been working towards winning the zilla parishad zone. For eight panchayats in the zilla parishad zone, eight party functionaries have been deputed. We know that the win would not change anything, but the party leadership wants to ensure that it leaves nothing to chance before next year's panchayat polls. In Angul too, we did not want to concede the seat to BJP and sent MP Mahesh Sahoo there. Organisational secretary Pranab Prakash Das has been checking on the progress of our campaign regularly through WhatsApp video calls," said a BJD leader on condition of anonymity.Mayurbhanj remains central to the BJD's game plan for next year's panchayat polls as the party is keen to reverse the setback it suffered in 2017 panchayat polls when the BJP surged in rural Odisha by winning 473 of the 853 zilla parishad seats that went to the polls. In 2016 panchayatiraj polls, BJP won 9 of the zilla parishads, most of them in western and tribal Odisha, helping the party win 8 of the 21 Lok Sabha seats and secure 38.37 % of the votes, a rise of 16.49 % from its 2014 figures.Aware that the BJP will focus on Odisha after the Bengal polls, the BJD leadership has been trying to strengthen the party's support base in western Odisha districts of Kalahandi, Bolangir, Sambalpur, Bargarh and tribal Odisha districts of Mayurbhanj, Koraput and Sundargarh. In 2019 Lok Sabha polls, BJD lost out to the BJP in almost the entire western Odisha belt and to the Congress and the BJP in tribal Odisha. Nabarangpur was the only saving grace.The BJD's game plan of countering the BJP's rise in western Odisha was visible in January this year when chief minister Naveen Patnaik deployed 69 of his MLAs and ministers in 38 gram panchayats of Kalahandi district to mobilise crowds for his visit. Though only 2,500 were present at the meeting place for Patnaik's address, the MLAs and ministers who had fanned out to the gram panchayats ensured thousands heard and saw Patnaik's address on giant LCD screens.The party would replicate the same formula for Patnaik's meeting in Sundargarh district next week by deputing over 50 MLAs there. In Sundargarh, the party lost out to BJP in Lok Sabha as well on three assembly seats.Also Read: DRDO photographer sentenced to life for espionage, likened to a terrorist"The kind of mobilisation that the BJD is doing even after ruling the state for 20 years shows its hunger to win everything that comes its way and not take its success for granted. Though opposition parties are known to win by-polls, in Odisha, the BJD has lost just one by-poll in the previous 20 years. It is surely using official machinery like most political parties in India do, but its success rate is very high," said Satya Prakash Dash, professor of political science of Sambalpur University.Dash pointed to the twin bypoll win in Balasore and Tirtol assembly constituencies in November last year. "In Balasore, BJP stood to gain from the sympathy wave generated by the death of the sitting MLA. Yet the party effectively campaigned, carpet bombing the constituency with dozens of MLAs and party leaders and won by a handsome margin. The win showed how electorally strong the regional party is," said Dash.BJP leader Sajjan Sharma said BJD's success in elections has not translated to better governance. "In the last 20 years, more than 20 lakh youth have registered themselves with different employment exchange offices in the entire state of Odisha. But unfortunately the employment exchange has failed to provide jobs to even less than 1% of the local youths enrolled with it. Just to win polls the party is encouraging criminals as was evident from the murder of a senior BJP leader in Cuttack district this year. Winning elections means nothing when the party is a big zero in governance," said Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-2022-panchayat-polls-bjd-gets-its-electoral-machinery-moving-101613118577502.html
12-02-2021||India||'Suffocated': Trinamool's Dinesh Trivedi announces resignation from Rajya Sabha||In what could become a major setback to the Trinamool Congress ahead of the assembly elections in 2021, party MP Dinesh Trivedi on Friday announced his resignation from the Rajya Sabha. As reasons, he cited his limited role as a Rajya Sabha MP to bring any change in the present ground situation of West Bengal. He also mentioned Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad in his statement where he said he wants to work for West Bengal, against the violence the state is presently witnessing.Several heavyweight Trinamool leaders, including Suvendu Adhikari, have recently resigned from the party and moved to the BJP.ALSO WATCH | TMC’s Dinesh Trivedi announces resignation; says feeling ‘suffocated in party’﻿Trivedi's statement came abruptly in the middle of the proceeding as he urged Rajya Sabha deputy chairman Harivansh Narayan Singh to allow him only five minutes as he was going to talk about a serious issue.5 rebel Trinamool leaders meet Amit Shah, join BJP"Every person has a moment in their life when his or her inner voice gives a message. Today, I encountered a similar moment as I was sitting here and wondering why we are in politics. Two days ago, PM Modi and Ghulam Nabi Azad spoke in the House. They represented two parties what united their speech was the country," Dinesh Trivedi said."A moment comes when a person has to decide whether the country is bigger than the party or whether the individual is the supreme," Trivedi said."The way violence is being unleased in my side, democracy is being attacked, I am feeling uneasy sitting here. I am feeling uneasy sitting here. I am from the land of Subhash Chandra Bose, Khudiram, Rabindranath Tagore...," he said.Quoting Swami Vivekananda's 'Arise, awake', the MP said, "My inner voice is telling me that if I can't do anything for my state sitting here, it's better I leave this chair.""There are limitations here. My party has sent me here so I am grateful. But now I can't take any more what is happening. I am feeling suffocated and that's why I want to resign from here and want to work for my Bengal," the MP said.Praising Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the former railway minister said, "The world was looking at India during the Covid-19 pandemic. India's fight against Covid-19 has been successful. PM Modi said the credit goes to 130 crore Indians, but the fight was helmed by him."Rajya Sabha deputy chairman Harivansh Narayan Singh said there is a due process which he will have to follow.Reacting to Trivedi's resignation from, party spokesperson Sukehndu Sekhat Ray said, "Trinamool" means grassroots. This will give us an opportunity to send a grassroots worker of ours soon to the Rajya Sabha."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/feeling-suffocated-dinesh-trivedi-wants-to-quit-rs-over-bengal-violence-101613117870846.html
12-02-2021||India||Naga peace talks conclude, says Governor RN Ravi, signals 'final solution'||Two weeks after stating that the negotiations between the Centre and the Naga rebel groups were stuck due to “unrealistic intransigence of some people”, Nagaland Governor and interlocutor RN Ravi on Friday said political negotiations were over and there is need to move swiftly towards the "final solution".Addressing the first day of the seventh session of the 13th Nagaland Legislative Assembly (NLA), the Governor said while fighting the Covid-19 pandemic for the past many months, the early resolution of the long-drawn Naga political issue had continued to remain the focus of the government.“With the negotiations being concluded, there is now a need for efforts to build on the substantial gains made so far, and to move swiftly for the "final solution", said the Governor.In his Republic Day address on January 26, Ravi had mentioned that politics by gun in the past had fragmented the Naga society and the mainstream Naga society has never accepted violence as a political resource.The Governor’s remark was set against the backdrop of the Isak-Muivah led faction of National Socialist Council of Nagaland (NSCN-IM) demanding a separate Naga flag and constitution. The NSCN (IM) has been holding peace talks with the government of India since 1997, while a conglomeration of seven different Naga national political groups (NNPGs) have also been engaged in separate talks with the Centre since 2017.The Naga tribal and civil society, along with the state government, have been reiterating that the armed groups must come together to facilitate “one solution” for the sake of the people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/naga-peace-talks-conclude-says-governor-rn-ravi-signals-final-solution-101613117444179.html
12-02-2021||India||Congress realises Nehru's blunder of 'gifting' land to China: BJP general secretary C T Ravi||The BJP took a dig at Rahul Gandhi on Friday for his allegation that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has ceded Indian territory to China, saying it was an acknowledgment of the realisation in the Congress that Jawaharlal Nehru had made a "Himalayan blunder" by "gifting" over 38,000 square kilometres of land to the neighbouring country."I am glad that the Congress has finally realised that PM Nehru created a 'Himalayan Blunder' by gifting 38,000 sq km land to China. Will it also question its co-owner, the coward Rahul Gandhi for making baseless allegations against PM Modi?" Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) general secretary C T Ravi said in a tweet.Gandhi questioned the government on Friday over its agreement with China on troops disengagement in eastern Ladakh and alleged that Modi has "ceded" Indian territory to the Chinese.The former Congress chief's attack on the government came a day after Defence Minister Rajnath Singh assured Parliament that India has not conceded anything in the sustained talks with China and it will not allow even an inch of its territory to be taken away by anyone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-realises-nehru-s-blunder-of-gifting-land-to-china-bjp-general-secretary-101613117422705.html
12-02-2021||India||Govt must not be party to continuing Covaxin trials: Chhattisgarh minister||Chhattisgarh health minister TS Singh Deo on Friday insisted that the only issue with Covaxin is that its Phase 3 trials are incomplete and added the government must not be a party to them. The comments came a day after Union health minister Harsh Vardhan dispelled the Chhattisgarh government’s concerns over India’s indigenous Covid-19 vaccine saying it was produced after “due evaluation of pre-clinical and clinical trial data” and is “safe and immunogenic” for use.Singh Deo said that any decision, which breaks national and international trials and testing protocols, renders the process meaningless. He said it was for Covaxin manufacturer Bharat Biotech to complete the trials. Deo insisted it is a matter of principles and probity rather than cutting corners, which is best avoided.Also Read | Covid-19: 4 states/UTs recorded no new Covid-19 cases in last 24 hoursDeo wrote to the Centre on February 8 urging it not to halt the Covaxin supply to the state till the trials are completed and the results are made public. Deo said there is an inhibition/concern among the community in general regarding the use of Covaxin as clinical trials of Phase 3 of the vaccine are yet to be completed.Deo cited Vardhan’s response and said if decisions can be made on the strength of Phase 1 and 2 trials alone, why have phase the Phase 3 trials which only delay its use. “If they are mandated as necessary, then they must be followed in full. There is and cannot be any objections to use the vaccine after the Phase 3 trial results are presented.”Vardhan also denied the Chhattisgarh government’s claims that the packages of the vials were without expiry dates. He pointed out that Chhattisgarh has achieved 69.87% coverage of its health care workers by giving them the first dose of the vaccine. Vardhan added the state has been able to cover only 9.55% of its 2,09,512 frontline workers through the first dose of the vaccine. He underlined the coverage needs to improve significantly since an adequate quantity of the vaccines was available with the state.Deo said 71.60% of health and 14.5% frontline workers have been vaccinated in the state and there is no ground to question their commitment. “...this will only go up though there are concerns about logistics...”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-must-not-be-party-to-continuing-covaxin-trials-chhattisgarh-minister-101613117547133.html
12-02-2021||India||Govt to launch seaplane services on various routes: Union minister Mandaviya||The government is looking to start seaplane services on several routes post the launch of the country's maiden seaplane service between the Statue of Unity near Kevadiya and Sabarmati Riverfront in Ahmedabad, Union Minister Mansukh Mandaviya said on Thursday.The proposed routes include Delhi-Jaipur, Delhi-Udaipur, Delhi-Jodhpur and Delhi-Badrinath among others, the ports, shipping and waterways minister told reporters here.The minister said the proposed services would also cover various islands of Andaman & Nicobar and Lakshadweep, Guwahati Riverfront and Umranso Reservoir in Assam, Yamuna Riverfront / Delhi (as hub) to Ayodhaya, Tehri, Srinagar (Uttrakhand), Chandigarh and many other tourist places.These will be developed through collaboration between the Ministry of Ports, Shipping and Waterways and the Ministry of Civil Aviation, he said.Sagarmala Development Company Limited (SDCL), a CPSE under the shipping ministry, has invited Expression of Interest (EoI) from airline operators for seaplane services.No separate budget has been provided as of now for this initiative, as per the ministry, and the objective of the EoI is to assess the interest of the airline operators for joint development and operation of the seaplane services with SDCL.Earlier, Mandaviya had said development of 14 more water aerodromes is being planned pan India under the RCS-UDAN (Regional Connectivity Scheme - Ude Desh Ka Aam Nagrik).The Airports Authority of India (AAI) and Ministry of Civil Aviation (MoCA) had requested the Inland Waterways Authority of India (IWAI) to conduct a hydrographic survey and later on requested assistance in setting up jetties for facilitating the passenger movement.Prime Minister Narendra Modi had on October 31 inaugurated India's maiden seaplane service between the Statue of Unity near Kevadiya in Gujarat's Narmada district and the Sabarmati Riverfront.On the Chabahar port in Iran, Mandaviya said India has started operations there and it will reduce logistics cost in container transport to Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS) countries, bypassing China and Europe.So far, CIS countries could be reached only via China or Europe, he said.Chabahar port, located in the Sistan-Balochistan province of energy-rich Iran's southern coast, lies outside the Persian Gulf and is easily accessed from India's western coast, bypassing Pakistan.CIS countries include Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Russia, and Uzbekistan.About seafarers, he said India plans to take their number to five lakh.Efforts during the past six years have taken the figure to 2.4 lakh from 1.1 lakh.Inland waterways are being strengthened with 4,000 kms already developed, he said, adding that India's 95 per cent cargo by volume and 75 per cent by value is handled through ports but the sector has remained neglected.Recalling India's glorious past in the maritime sector, he said efforts are on to boost the segment through initiatives like Sagarmala, which is an ambitious port-led development programme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-to-launch-seaplane-services-on-various-routes-union-minister-mandaviya-101613116640107.html
12-02-2021||India||Supreme Court issues notice to Andhra Pradesh on Odisha contempt plea||The Supreme Court on Friday issued notice to Andhra Pradesh chief secretary, state election commissioner and district collector, Vizianagaram, on a contempt petition filed by the Odisha government accusing Andhra Pradesh of holding local body polls in three villages falling within its territory. In the contempt plea, Odisha informed the court that the three villages where elections are to be held this Saturday fall within Odisha . These villages form part of 21 villages in respect of which a suit was filed in 1968 by Odisha before Supreme Court. A status quo order passed by the court still binds the two states, Odisha said in its contempt petition and hence alleged that the recent action of AP was in violation of the status quo granted on December 2, 1968.A bench of Justices AM Khanwilkar and Aniruddha Bose issued notice on the petition. Senior advocate Vikas Singh, appearing for Odisha, informed the Court that elections are due tomorrow. Also Read | Supreme Court issues notice to Twitter, Centre over regulation of contentThe bench said, “Whatever consequences will flow from our order will flow.” For Andhra Pradesh government, advocate Mahfooz Nazki appeared and sought to raise objections on the filing of contempt petition by Odisha. The bench allowed AP to raise all objections in its response and listed the matter for hearing next Friday. The elections under challenge were notified by district collector, Vizianagaram, in March 2020. The Odisha government named Collector Muda Hari Jawaharlal along with chief secretary Adityanath Das and state election commissioner N Ramesh Kumar as contemnors. The petition said, “The said notification issued by contemnor 1 (Muda Hari Jawaharlal) in unison with contemnors 2 and 3 (chief secretary and SEC) is to invade into the territory of petitioner state at the cost of wilful violation of this Court’s order… Administratively and otherwise, the state of Odisha has been in control of these villages throughout. However, of late, clandestinely the contemnors have entered into the impugned act of contempt by which this court’s order has been violated,” the contempt petition said.Odisha government has said that the three villages falling in Koraput have been shown as part of Salur panchayat mandal of Vizianagaram by changing their original names from Ganjaipader, Phattusenary, and Phagusenary to Ganjaibadra, Pattuchennuru and Phaguluchennuru, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-issues-notice-to-andhra-pradesh-on-odisha-contempt-plea-101613116946561.html
12-02-2021||India||Rakesh Tikait warns farmers' protest will go on for indefinite period||Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) spokesperson Rakesh Tikait on Friday said the ongoing farmers' protest will go on for indefinite period as there is no planning regarding the duration yet."Farmers' protest will go on for indefinite period as there is no plan currently. It might continue till October," Tikait told ANI.He said this in response to the statement of Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) leader Gurnam Singh Charni that the farmers' protest will continue till October.Tikait had earlier warned the farmers' agitation will not conclude unless government repeals the three newly enacted agriculture laws and it may go on till October.On Friday he mentioned that the farmers do a protest every year on October 2 at the Ghazipur border."Tear shells and bullets were fired at the farmers on October 2, 2018, at the Ghazipur border. Every year we do a programme here at the Ghazipur border and will also do it this year," he said.Asked about the debates in the Parliament on the farmers' issues, Tikait said it is good that the issue is being raised and debated in the Parliament.He further said there must be a genuine reason that the country's farmers are protesting for so long."The entire nation's farmers are on streets protesting, there must be a reason to it. If the farm laws are not accepted by the farmers, then what is the compulsion of not repealing them?" Tikait asked.He agreed with Congress leader Rahul Gandhi's remark of 'Hum do hamare do' as he believed that it truly seemed like only four people are running the country.Farmers have been protesting on the different borders of the national capital since November 26 against the three newly enacted farm laws: Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rakesh-tikait-warns-farmers-protest-will-go-on-for-indefinite-period-101613116200231.html
12-02-2021||India||AAP releases manifesto for Ahmedabad local polls, promises to halve property tax||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has promised to halve the property tax and to phase out professional tax in its manifesto ahead of the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation polls on February 21. The manifesto was released on Wednesday and also pledges to set up women’s legal aid and counselling as well as and sports and self-defence training centres in every municipal ward.The party has separately released a report card on the issues its volunteers have raised since 2018 related to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-controlled municipal body’s performance. The report card has raised issues like overflowing gutter lines, unkempt roads, chemical pollution in the Sabarmati river, choked drainage lines, shrinking parking spaces.Former deputy municipal commissioner Ashutosh Vyas and Kishore Desai, who has headed AAP in Gujarat, were part of the committee that has prepared the manifesto.Also Read | AAP criticises Centre for giving land at throwaway price for Delhi BJP office“Our overarching key campaign theme is corruption at every level since this is central to all that ails Ahmedabad and explains the apathy of the BJP-ruled administration,” said Tuli Banerjee, the AAP’s Gujarat media coordinator. She added the manifesto addresses every citizen, who may ask what is in it for her.Banerjee said this is the first time that AAP, which rules Delhi and is the second-biggest party in the Punjab assembly, is contesting elections at all levels in Gujarat. “Earlier, [there were] some coordination issue as well... it was decided to come to Gujarat later, though it was never out of the scheme of things.”She said AAP leaders, including Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, Sanjay Singh, Atishi, have campaigned in Gujarat and will continue to come. Banerjee said AAP’s Delhi Model has inspired their idea of the guarantee card for the Ahmedabad local polls. Banerjee said the AAP government in Delhi has drastically improved the municipal schools and launched mohalla clinics. “...the party opened 10 mohalla clinics in Ahmedabad on a trial basis for two days. ...we will have these clinics in every ward...”The AAP is preparing guarantee and report cards for Vadodara, Rajkot, Surat, Bhavnagar, and Jamnagar, where municipal polls are also going to be held.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aap-releases-manifesto-for-ahmedabad-local-polls-promises-to-halve-property-tax-101613116167414.html
12-02-2021||India||Prakash Javadekar joins Koo; RS Prasad 'thankful' for 5 lakh followers||Union information and broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar joined Koo, India's microblogging platform, adding to the list of ministers who have already gone 'vocal' for 'local' by opening their accounts on Koo. Electronics and information technology minister Ravi Shankar Prasad, who joined Koo a few days ago, on Friday thanked his followers as his follower count on the new app reached 5 lakh on Friday.Great to have 5 Lakh followers on Koo- an Indian micro blogging platform. Thank you everyone for your love and support #VocalForLocal You can follow me on Koo App - https://t.co/lImf0anORa"Great to have 5 Lakh followers on Koo- an Indian microblogging platform. Thank you everyone for your love and support #VocalForLocal," the IT minister tweeted.Ravi Shankar Prasad was one of the first BJP leaders to open accounts on the 10-month-old app which has gained massive support after Twitter ran into troubled waters in India following Republic Day violence.Several ministers, government officials, departments have opened their accounts on Koo and are issuing statements on both the platforms.I am now on #Koo also, the #MakeInIndia micro-blogging platform.Follow me @prakashjavadekar on #KooApp https://t.co/YFMpR5CNKA pic.twitter.com/QrQRHxcOrZ"I am now on #Koo also, the #MakeInIndia micro-blogging platform. Follow me @prakashjavadekar on #KooApp," wrote Prakash Javadekar, announcing his debut on Koo.Koo, which was developed as a microblogging platform in regional languages, has had its initial brush with controversy as it has been alleged that the app is not fully Indian. The owners clarified that a Chinese investor, who had a small stake of the company, is on its way out. Koo's security features have also drawn criticism, though Koo claimed that such speculations are "unnecessary".Twitter will be a much nicer place if the move to Koo picks up pace.If Twitter can be replaced, the people who have abused it for years can be too.There have been sarcastic comments as well on what is being called 'Koo's coup'. National Conference leader Omar Abdullah said if the move to Koo picks up space, then Twitter will become a much nicer place. Trinamul MP Mahua Moitra said if Twitter can be replaced, then the "people who have abused it for years can be too".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/prakash-javadekar-joins-koo-rs-prasad-thankful-for-5-lakh-followers-101613115471614.html
12-02-2021||India||Jammu and Kashmir to get 1st impact-based flood forecasting system||Jammu and Kashmir is likely to get the country’s first impact-based flood forecasting system in collaboration with UK space agency, enabling the prediction of the impact impending floods may have on people's lives including, houses, crops, livestock, and transport routes, thereby helping in mitigating several of these challenges, said J&K Lieutenant Governor.“Having impact-based forecasts of flood risk using Earth Observation (EO) based Information will be useful for efficient, effective contingency planning and swift evaluation of severity for necessary response,” L-G Manoj Sinha remarked.“It is a big initiative taken by the Hon'ble Lt Governor of UT of J&K and will help to predict fluvial flood risks, in terms of expected loss to life, injuries to people, building collapse, infrastructure disruption, and economic damage. The framework will be capable of being linked to any existing or future flood flow forecasting system. The UT Government will not have to bear any expenses on the project,” said a J&K administration spokesperson.A recent report has put India among the 10 most disaster prone countries in the world and ranked floods as one of the greatest climate-related hazards. India has numerous flood forecasting systems that provide prediction of water levels and flows but not their impact in terms of loss of life, damage to buildings, critical infrastructure and agriculture, said the spokesperson.Also Read: J-K LG seeks 'qualitative improvement' in overall functioning of Kashmir varsityJ&K falls in seismic zone IV and V, making it prone to quakes as well.The National Space Innovation Programme (NSIP) is a new programme established by the UK Space Agency which supports collaborative projects between UK organisations and international partners.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jammu-and-kashmir-to-get-1st-impact-based-flood-forecasting-system-101613115683830.html
12-02-2021||India||Karnataka transport bus conductor puts kidney on sale to meet financial needs||Unable to meet daily expenses due to "deduction of salary", a 38-year-old bus conductor working with the state owned transport corporation has posted on a social media site that he was ready to sell his kidney.He claimed the deduction due to the pandemic has worsened his financial condition. "I am a transport employee. I don't have money to pay for my ration and house rent. Hence, I have put my kidney on sale. Here is my phone number," Hanumanth Kalegar, who is working at the Gangavati depot of the North East Karnataka Road Transport Corporation (NEKRTC), posted on Facebook.He said even after working with the Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation and now with the NEKRTC, there has been no improvement in his financial situation.Left with no option, he decided to sell his kidney, he told reporters.According to him, he has to pay house rent, buy groceries, take care of the education of his children and foot the medical bills of his parents.He added that he had to send his son studying in fourth standard to grandparents to take care of his education.NEKRTC's Koppal Divisional Controller M A Mulla told PTI that the conductor has been irregular in his duty due to which his take-home pay is very less."I told his family to ensure that he goes to work regularly without which his condition won't improve," Mulla said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-transport-bus-conductor-puts-kidney-on-sale-to-meet-financial-needs-101613115424698.html
12-02-2021||India||News updates from HT: Chanda Kochhar appears before special PMLA court and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Chanda Kochhar appears before special PMLA court in money laundering caseChanda Kochhar, former managing director of ICICI Bank, appeared before the special PMLA (Prevention of Money Laundering Act) court in connection with a money laundering case. Read moreCovid-19 vaccines' fake website blocked, ministry asks people to be cautiousA fake website impersonating the official website of the ministry of health and family welfare claiming to offer vaccines against Covid-19 has come to the notice of the ministry and it has been immediately blocked. Read moreUttarakhand glacier burst: No headway in rescue work at Tapovan tunnelDays after the glacier burst in Uttarakhand, agencies continued their rescue work on Friday by clearing muck from the tunnel in NTPC’s hydel power project in Tapovan, Chamoli, to rescue about 35 workers trapped inside. Read moreIndia Predicted XI for 2nd Test: Who will play, Kuldeep Yadav or Axar Patel?Virat Kohli and Co. would be hoping to claw their way back into the series with a spirited performance in the second Test in Chennai. Let's take a look at the predicted XI for India. Read moreNeha Dhupia on trolls: 'They abuse someone's wife, daughter and then share a meal with their own family'Actor Neha Dhupia, who is among the most trolled and abused celebrities online, has talked about her experiences. Neha, is still targeted by many trolls for a comment she made on her show Roadies, a few years ago. Read moreNora Fatehi adds a touch of romance to Indian wear in pink suit, sheer dupattaEthnic outfits are getting a modern twist. While maintaining their authenticity, they are being perked up with intricate sequined work, ruffled dupattas and capes, in some cases. Read moreAstronaut shares picture of Japan's Mount Fuji taken from spaceThere is something absolutely astounding about the images of Earth which are captured from the outer space. They present us with a complete different look of our Blue Planet. Just like this image shared by Japanese astronaut Soichi Noguchi. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-chanda-kochhar-appears-before-special-pmla-court-101613113970048.html
12-02-2021||India||Covid-19: Maharashtra’s weekly positivity rate continues to rise||The weekly positivity rate for Covid-19 in Maharashtra has been on the rise. The weekly positivity rate reached 5.48% on February 9, from 4.51% a week ago on February 2 and 4.37% two weeks ago on January 26. The rise is particularly noticeable in Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), and it is being attributed to resumption in local train services, reopening of schools and laxity in Covid-appropriate behaviour. As per the state health department data, the positivity rate of districts in MMR increased significantly. In Mumbai, it was 3.60% on February 9,from 3.28% a week ago, Thane reported 6.09% from 5.65%, while in Raigad it increased to 3.26% from 2.18% a week ago. In Pune, Nashik, two other cities with high number of cases, the jump was to 9.05 and 15.67% from 6.83% and 7.82% respectively during this period.Positivity rate is the total number of cases tested positive for Covid-19 against the total tests done. State’s positivity rate had crossed 24% in September and October when the epidemic was at its peak in Maharashtra. In some of the rural districts also, like Amaravati (13.67% from 9.68%), Akola(12.30% from 9.66), Wardha (11.19% from 4.49), Yavatmal (10.92% 7.87), Nagpur (9.24% from 9.09), Buldhana (8.28% from 4.05) the positivity rate has witnessed a sudden jump over the week. This is being attributed to the weak health infrastructure and drop in the tracking, tracing and testing of contacts. As many as 14 of 36 districts recorded more than state average of weekly positivity rate and was the highest in Nashik at 15.67%. Also Read | Covid-19: 4 states/UTs recorded no new Covid-19 cases in last 24 hoursThe daily testing dropped to 44,151 on February 9 from 56,557 on January 31 and 60,464 on January 21. Maharashtra president of Indian Medical Associaton Dr Avinash Bhondve said there were a number of reasons for this rise in positivity rate. “It is because of multiple reasons, which include crowding of public places, opening of school, colleges, trains in MMR and lack of Covid-19 appropriate behaviour. People have become complacent. The number of attendees at public functions has gone up,” he said. Additional municipal commissioner of Mumbai Suresh Kakani said the rise is also because of the increase in the number of domestic and international flights. “Generally, the spike is seen on the 6-7th day of opening up of any activity and in case of local trains, we did not see it on February 7 after allowing all to travel in trains from February 1...Thus, the rise cannot be fully attributed to the train travel. We will have to observe the situation for at least 10 more days to arrive at any conclusion,” he said.He said that the call about further relaxation in train travel will be taken by February 22.The state government, from February 1, allowed all to travel in trains in off-peak hours excluding 7am to 12 pm and 4pm to 9pm which are peak hours for suburban trains in MMR. This resulted in the jump in daily commuters to 30 lakh from 8 lakh before February 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19maharashtras-weekly-positivity-rate-continues-to-rise-101613115325771.html
12-02-2021||India||Supreme Court issues notice to Twitter, Centre over regulation of content||The Supreme Court on Friday issued notices to Central government and Twitter on a PIL filed by BJP leader Vinit Goenka seeking regulation of content on social media platforms.Goenka has asked for directions for devising a mechanism to check fake news and instigative messages circulated via social media, especially Twitter. The plea also seeks a crackdown on ‘anti-India messages’ and those attempting to trigger violence in the country by spreading ‘venomous’ messages.The court has tagged Goenka's matter with a bunch of similar petitions already pending before the apex court.The SC notices come amid a continuing face off between Twitter and the Central government over more than 1,300 social media accounts or posts in connection with the farmers’ protest and the violence on January 26 deemed ‘inflammatory’ by the government.Information Technology Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad on Thursday warned social media platforms including Twitter of strict action for not cracking down on alleged inflammatory content, saying they have to fully comply with the country's law.He said differential treatment of incidents on Capitol Hill and the Red Fort was not justified. He added that while the government was committed to freedom of media and rights of individuals but it was equally concerned about safety, security, and law and order in the country."Please don't spread enmity, violence and misinformation. Please follow the Constitution of India and the law of the land," he said replying to a question in Rajya Sabha.On Wednesday, his ministry had expressed displeasure at Twitter for failing to remove all of the over 1,300 accounts and posts it had flagged. The government was riled after Twitter in a public blog post said it has taken down only half of the accounts and posts flagged by the government.The Constitution of India guarantees freedom of speech but Article 19 (2) also says that it is subject to reasonable restrictions because of the "sovereignty and integrity" of India.Prasad said that while social media platforms have their own self-regulatory mechanism to check and evaluate inflammatory content, that does not mean they will not follow the Indian rules.Asked about steps taken by the government to check the spread of misinformation on social media, he said "We have recently flagged Twitter" on the issue.His ministry officials are in talks with Twitter on the issue.Prasad also said that the government respected the good work and the foreign investment the social media giants bring into the country but the laws of the country had to be respected.On the protection of privacy of the individuals of the country on social media, he said the government is working on new guidelines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-issues-notice-to-twitter-centre-over-regulation-of-content-101613113545544.html
12-02-2021||India||Supreme Court notices to Twitter, Centre on plea seeking mechanism to check fake news||The Supreme Court issued notices to the Centre and several social media platforms, including Twitter, on a plea seeking directions for devising a mechanism to check fake news and instigative messages being circulated via social media.The petition by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Vinit Goenka to regulate content on social media platforms has also sought a crackdown on “anti-India and venomous messages” sent through social media aimed at provoking violence in various parts of the country.The court has tagged Goenka's matter with a bunch of similar petitions already pending before the apex court.The new petition comes at a time when the government and Twitter are at odds over 1,300 accounts or posts that were spreading ‘misinformation’ in connection with the farmers’ protest and the violence on January 26. The government has asked the microblogging site to take these down. Twitter, however, did not take action on some of the accounts that consist of news media entities, journalists, activists, and politicians to keep with their “principles of defending protected speech and freedom of expression.”On Thursday, minister for electronics and information technology Ravi Shankar Prasad warned that social media companies will need to follow India’s laws or face strict action. He added that the government is working on new rules to make companies such as Twitter and Facebook more responsive to directions and accountable to Indian laws.On Twitter’s ‘freedom of expression’ explanation, Prasad said the government was in the favour of freedom of speech and expression but against the abuse of social media platforms for spreading fake news and posts that can spread violence.“We respect social media. We also respect criticism. But we will not tolerate the misuse of social media for fake news. Today, from here in Parliament, I politely remind the companies, whether it is Twitter, Facebook, LinkedIn or WhatsApp or anyone, they are free to work in India, do business, but they need to respect the Indian Constitution, they need to respect the Indian law,” he told the Rajya Sabha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-notice-to-twitter-centre-on-plea-seeking-mechanism-to-check-fake-news-101613110198390.html
12-02-2021||India||Party didn’t have a chief when Congress leaders sent letter: Ghulam Nabi Azad||Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad has said that he and his 22 colleagues wrote to the party chief, Sonia Gandhi, in August demanding internal elections and organisational overhaul as they wanted a full-time president and elected bodies at each level for their organisation to rise from the ashes after back-to-back defeats in the national polls. Also Read | The entire population of J&K concerned over changes to its status: Azad“We wanted to strengthen the organisation and not challenge it,” Azad said in an interview with HT. Azad said they have lost elections earlier too. He added but losing in 2019 and 2014 and getting just 52 and 44 seats in 543-member Lok Sabha and not even having a Leader of Opposition in Parliament’s Lower House was unacceptable. “Some people feel very bad that we have fallen from the sky to even below the ground,” said Azad days before he is due to retire from Rajya Sabha on Monday.Azad’s farewell ahead of his retirement grabbed the headlines as Prime Minister Narendra Modi broke down while talking about him on Tuesday. Modi heaped praise on Azad and called him a leader who cared for his party, country, and Parliament.Also Read | Very difficult for a young Muslim leader to aspire to be India’s Prime Minister: AzadAzad, who rejected speculation that he was likely to join the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party, referred to the letter writers and said they have come from the organisation and that is why their accessibility to people is much more than others. “If people cannot meet someone, they come to us. They give us a list of things that were going wrong and needed to be corrected. Then we put it all together, and this is what we wanted the leadership to see.”Azad called it unfortunate that someone leaked the letter. “That was not our purpose… I would not call it a leak as it is not a state secret; it [letter] was [about] how to strengthen the organisation.” Also Read | ‘Will join BJP when we have black snow in Kashmir,’ says Ghulam Nabi AzadAzad said the Congress did not really have a president when the letter was written because Rahul Gandhi had resigned. “And the other president [Sonia Gandhi] had said [she will lead for] only one year and that year was going to end that month. That was the reason that we wanted a full-time president.”Azad said he supported Rahul Gandhi, but he resigned after the 2019 national election loss. He added they spent an hour convincing Rahul Gandhi, but he said no to leading the party again. “So, once he was out, who was there? We requested Mrs Gandhi; she said no.” He added then they all got together and told Sonia Gandhi that she has to be there. “Some said six months, some said four months… we all decided one year. We had no president, the elected one had resigned. And so, when we wrote the letter, there was no president, and we were talking of a third person.”Azad refused to comment when asked who his preferred candidate was as the process to choose a candidate to lead the Congress will start four months later. “Let the bridge come.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/party-didn-t-have-a-chief-when-congress-leaders-sent-letter-ghulam-nabi-azad-101613109805634.html
12-02-2021||India||Ministry gets fake website charging ₹4K to ₹6K for Covid-19 vaccines blocked||A fake website impersonating the official website of the ministry of health and family welfare claiming to offer vaccines against Covid-19 has come to the notice of the ministry and it has been immediately blocked to stop the spread of misinformation regarding India's vaccination process. The health ministry on Friday said a case has been registered against the site and investigation is on. "Please be cautious. Do not fall prey to such fraudulent websites," the ministry said on its official Twitter handle.#Covid19UpdateThe site 'https://t.co/l715QloBwO' has been blocked. A case is registered and investigation taken up.Please be cautious. Do not fall prey to such fraudulent websites.@PMOIndia @drharshvardhan @AshwiniKChoubey @PIBFactCheck @mygovindia @DDNewslive https://t.co/g6Efori7tqThe fake website replicated the health ministry's Covid-19 dashboard and introduced a fraudulent link asking users to click for 'appointment for vaccination'. The website also reportedly mentioned a price between ₹4,000 and ₹6,000.@PIBFactCheck busted a fake vaccination registration website that was collecting money for #COVID19Vaccine. @Mohfw_India based on our investigation got it blocked. Good work #PIBFactcheck https://t.co/Ha4DZk3zfZThe ministry has time and again clarified that apart from Co-WIN and Aarogya Setu app, there is no other website or application for vaccine registration.This is not the first time that fraudulent activities surrounding the vaccination process came to the notice of the authorities. Before the Co-WIN app was launched, fraudulent apps with the same name cropped up to guile people. Such activities are likely to pick up pace as India starts to vaccinate people above 50 years as there is an option of self-registration in that phase.The vaccination drive in India began on January 16, starting with healthcare staff and now dovetailing into the phase where other frontline staff are being inoculated. All these beneficiaries have been pre-registered with the Co-WIN app based on the data provided by the state governments. For the next phase where people above 50 years of age will be vaccinated, data have been sourced from local authorities and electoral rolls. But one can also self-register and this leeway is likely to be exploited by fraudsters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-vaccine-s-fake-website-blocked-ministry-asks-people-to-be-cautious-101613109088967.html
12-02-2021||India||Uttarakhand glacier burst: No headway in rescue work at Tapovan tunnel||Days after the glacier burst in Uttarakhand, agencies continued their rescue work on Friday by clearing muck from the tunnel in NTPC’s hydel power project in Tapovan, Chamoli, to rescue about 35 workers trapped inside.As of now, there has been no breakthrough because of heavy boulders and muck beyond 100m in the tunnel, said officials. Rescue workers have so far recovered 35 bodies of which 10 have been identified. They are yet to find bodies of about 169 persons out of the total 204 missing in last Sunday’s disaster. State director general of police Ashok Kumar said, “The rescue workers are putting in all efforts to clear the muck from the tunnel but are unable to make any progress. We are failing to get beyond 100m as the heavy muck inside fills up the area as soon as we clear it. Rescue workers tried to get into the tunnel by drilling inside on Thursday, but to no avail.” Also Read | U’khand floods: Union home secy holds review meet, assures central help to stateOn Thursday, the rescue operation had to be stopped for about half an hour after the water level in the Dhauliganga river rose to about one and a half feet. Officials said that it was likely that the water level rose due to depositing of sediments upstream, blocking the water flow. “A team of rescue workers and experts went to check it on Thursday but couldn’t get a clear picture. They will go again on Friday for a recce to know what has happened,” said Kumar. Earlier on Thursday, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat approved the plan of rehabilitating about 50 families from villages of disaster prone areas in four hill districts -- Tehri Garhwal, Chamoli, Uttarakashi and Bageshwar. He also sanctioned ₹15 lakh for installation of earthquake detecting sensors for the operation of earthquake warning system with the help of IIT Roorkee. State Governor Baby Rani Maurya visited Tapovan to assess the ground situation and rescue work. Later on, Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Koshiyari also flew down to Uttarakhand and met the chief minister and other officials to assess the current situation of rescue work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-glacier-burst-no-headway-in-rescue-work-in-tapovan-tunnel-101613106748092.html
12-02-2021||India||No passenger death due to train accident in last 22 months: Railways minister||Railways minister Piyush Goyal on Friday said in the last 22 months, there has been no passenger death due to train accidents as the last passenger death took place on March 22, 2019. The minister said this in the Rajya Sabha in a reply to Trinamul MP Dinesh Trivedi's question on railways safety."Safety became a casualty of inadequate budget and misdirection of budget allocation. In the last six years, we have focussed more and more amount to safety. The last passenger death due to train accidents took place on March 22, 2019," the minister said.As members in the Rajya Sabha created an uproar claiming that train services have been curtailed owing to the pandemic, the minister said, "Some member don't remember that the trains were running before March in 2020 and then services were resumed from April and are now 70% of their pre-pandemic services. But some members in the House have a short memory."On being asked whether the ministry is thinking of deploying modern equipment to increase overall safety and especially the bridges, the minister said, "There are 34,665 bridged in India which are over 100 years old. But the ministry has a robust inspection system — before the monsoon season and after."On a question whether the railways is taking the help of drones to monitor these bridges, the minister said, "Drones will not be the right approach to monitor bridge condition. It should rather involve sensors, checking the tensile pressure etc. But I welcome the member's suggestion," Goyal said adding that for the first time Railway Board now has a post of director-general for safety.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-passenger-death-due-to-train-accident-in-last-22-months-railways-minister-101613105525387.html
12-02-2021||India||Youths with learning disabilities manage organic outlet in Hyderabad||A retail outlet of organic products based in Telangana's Hyderabad is providing an experiential learning space for the youth who 'face learning challenges' to give them opportunities to learn entrepreneurship in Telangana's Hyderabad.'Swaach, the Organic Bazaar', was started by Suparna Bajaj who came up with the idea of an experiential space for the youths like her son Shiv who have a learning disability. This place gives them space where they are given the freedom to learn, think and experiment.Further, it developed into a set up where they learn all the processes of entrepreneurship."Swaach is not a normal shop that sells organic food but it also provides experiential learning of entrepreneurship to the young adults who learn differently and slowly," the founder of 'Swaach' Suparna Bajaj told ANI.Also read| Koo not leaking data, says co-founder; French hacker disagrees"This has been set up so that the youngsters can learn entrepreneurship and can run a small business for themselves in the future," Bajaj said.Bajaj said that currently there are three young adults who run the shop. "Through this small scale business, they are mentored and taught how to deal with vendors in a small scale business set up. They deal with package, delivery, and bill. This helps them to improve their respective skills and built up a community for sustainable living," she added.Shailaja who is working at the truck for three years now said, "I have been doing customers' bills, consolidated sheets and vendor management."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/youths-with-learning-disabilities-manage-organic-outlet-in-hyderabad-101613101770853.html
12-02-2021||India||Gujarat civic polls: Congress offers sops to city dwellers in manifesto||Ahead of the February 21 polls to six municipal corporations in Gujarat, the opposition Congress on Thursday announced various sops, including free Wi-Fi zones and parking areas, for residents of prominent cities in the state.While releasing its manifesto for the civic polls, the Congress also announced to install air purifiers on city roads to improve air quality, 50 per cent decrease in property tax, free education in English medium in civic-run schools, and tax exemption to shopkeepers and traders hit by Covid-19 lockdown.It promised to set up free Wi-Fi zones and provide free parking facilities in Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Surat, Rajkot, Jamnagar and Bhavnagar cities.The BJP is currently in power in the civic bodies of all these six cities, where municipal polls will be held on February 21.On the lines of the Aam Aadmi Party government in Delhi, the Congress also announced to open 'Tiranga Clinics' in each ward to provide basic health care services to the city dwellers.Also read| President Kovind to open 'Udyanotsav' todayThe Congress also said it will convert some of the civic-run schools into model schools and start imparting free education in English medium from Class 1.Though the BJP is in power since long in these cities, people are still deprived of basic amenities, like proper roads, drinking water, sewerage, education and affordable healthcare, Gujarat Congress president Amit Chavda claimed while releasing the manifesto."By way of this manifesto, we hereby take a pledge to resolve these issues, if voted to power," he said.Chavda said within 24 hours of coming to power, his party will abolish the contractual employment system and start the process of regular recruitment in these corporations."Within one week, we will start the repair work of all roads in these cities," he said.As per the manifesto, the other promises include construction of new hospitals, inviting the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) to conduct audit of accounts to bring in more transparency, and issuance of cards for availing various government schemes and facilities, such as free transport.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-civic-polls-congress-offers-sops-to-city-dwellers-in-manifesto-101613099259625.html
12-02-2021||India||Very difficult for a young Muslim leader to aspire to be India’s Prime Minister: Azad||Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad has said it is very difficult for a young Muslim leader to aspire to be the Prime Minister of India. “I do not foresee it in the near future; maybe a few decades,” Azad said in an interview to HT days after he made an emotional farewell speech in Rajya Sabha saying if any Muslim should feel proud in the world, it should be the Indian Muslim.Also Read | The entire population of J&K concerned over changes to its status: AzadAzad’s comments in Rajya Sabha came over two years after he spoke about the vitiated atmosphere in the country in a speech at the Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) in 2018. In his address to AMU alumni, Azad had said the number of even Hindu Congress candidates inviting him to campaign for them in elections has reduced drastically as people were “afraid”.Also Read | ‘Will join BJP when we have black snow in Kashmir,’ says Ghulam Nabi AzadWhen asked why he referred to the Indian Muslim after his comments in 2018, Azad said he had said in AMU that the atmosphere in the country is so vitiated that contrary to the past where 99% of Hindu candidates would invite him to campaign for them to get the Muslim vote, the number of invitations has gone down to 40%. Azad added his message was also to the AMU alumni gathered there that it is their job to be ambassadors, and to bring that India back. He said it was that India where he contested the 1979 national election from Maharashtra with a 95% Hindu electorate and won. “There was a Janata Party Hindu candidate against me, but I still won.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/very-difficult-for-a-young-muslim-leader-to-aspire-to-be-india-s-prime-minister-azad-101613106145298.html
12-02-2021||India||PM Modi has given away Indian territory to China, alleges Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi launched a fresh attack on Prime Minister Narendra Modi and claimed that “the PM has given away sacred Indian territory to China”, arguing that the Indian army held Finger 4 area in Ladakh along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) but now it will move back to its permanent position near Finger 3.Gandhi’s salvoes come a day after defence minister Rajnath Singh informed the Lok Sabha that the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) will retreat to its base east of Finger 8 on the north bank of Pangong Tso, the Indian Army will move back to its permanent position near Finger 3.“Indian government’s position was status quo ante in April 2020. Now, defence minister comes and makes a statement. We find Indian troops will now be stationed in Finger 3. Finger 4 used to be our territory. Why has PM Modi given our land to the Chinese?” Gandhi said on Friday.“Why they have been asked to move back? There is no word on our most strategic area of Depsang plains. The government is mum on Gogra post and Hot Springs. PM Modi has stooped before China and given away the land between Finger 3 and Finger 4 to the Chinese,” Gandhi alleged.Also Read | Smriti Irani hits out at Rahul Gandhi in Lok Sabha, says he is spreading lies“There is no strategic advantage. Chinese were in our land. Our soldiers risked everything they had to go to Kailash ranges. Now PM has given back land and status quo ante is irrelevant. This is absolute 100% cowardice. The Prime Minister is a coward who can’t stand up to the Chinese,” Gandhi alleged.He must ask his grandfather (Jawaharlal Nehru) about who has given India's territory to China, he will get the answer.. Who is a patriot and who is not, the public knows it all: MoS Home G Kishan Reddy on Rahul Gandhi's recent remarks on PM and India-China disengagement pic.twitter.com/0z4gLHAnNbOn Thursday, Singh announced that the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) will retreat to its base east of Finger 8 on the north bank of Pangong Tso, the Indian Army will move back to its permanent position near Finger 3 and neither side will patrol the contested areas until an agreement is reached through future talks, explaining the nuances of a disengagement plan hammered out by the two armies to reduce military tensions in eastern Ladakh.Until now, rival soldiers have been deployed eyeball-to-eyeball on the Finger 4 ridgeline at heights of almost 18,000 feet.The Chinese defence ministry announced the disengagement on Wednesday; New Delhi did not react immediately because Parliament was in session, and a day later, Singh briefed the House on the breakthrough in a months-long impasse.Gandhi also said that he doesn’t trust the Prime Minister but has full faith in the Indian armed forces and the people of India. “The PM’s responsibility was to protect the territory of this country. But the PM ceded Indian territory to Chinese. How he recovers it is his problem, not mine.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-gave-away-sacred-indian-territory-to-china-rahul-gandhi-101613105785362.html
12-02-2021||India||US welcomes de-escalation efforts by India, China in eastern Ladakh border||The US has welcomed the ongoing efforts by India and China to de-escalate the situation in eastern Ladakh and said it would continue to monitor the situation closely as both sides work toward a peaceful resolution.Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday announced in Parliament that India and China have reached an agreement on disengagement in the North and South banks of Pangong lake in eastern Ladakh that mandates both sides to cease forward deployment of troops in a "phased, coordinated and verifiable" manner.“We’re closely following reports of initial troop disengagement. We welcome the ongoing efforts to de-escalate the situation,” a State Department spokesperson told PTI.“We will, of course, continue to monitor the situation closely as both sides work toward a peaceful resolution,” the spokesperson said while responding to a question on China and India pulling back their troops from eastern Ladakh.Congressman Michael McCaul, lead Republican in the House Foreign Affairs Committee, also welcomed the disengagement of troops.“It’s heartening to see India stand strong in defending its sovereignty,” he said in a tweet.“The (Chinese Communist Party) CCP’s constant territorial aggression, from the East and South China Seas to the waters of the Mekong, to the Himalayas, has no place in the 21st century,” McCaul said.India and China had rushed a large number of battle tanks, armoured vehicles and heavy equipment to the treacherous and high-altitude areas of eastern Ladakh region after tension escalated following a deadly clash in the Galwan Valley in June last.Twenty Indian soldiers were killed in the fierce hand-to-hand combat on June 15 in the Galwan Valley, an incident that marked the most serious military conflicts between the two sides in decades.China is yet to disclose the number of its soldiers killed and injured in the clash though it officially admitted to have suffered casualties. According to an American intelligence report, the number of casualties on the Chinese side was 35.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-welcomes-de-escalation-efforts-by-india-china-in-eastern-ladakh-border-101613105208026.html
12-02-2021||India||India reports 9,309 new Covid-19 cases; active caseload below 140,000||India reported less than 10,000 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) for the third time this month, as 9,309 new infections, reported in the preceding 24 hours, took the national tally to 10,880,603, the Ministry of health and family welfare’s (MoHFW) dashboard showed on Friday morning. Also, for the sixth time in the month, there were less than 100 daily fatalities, with 87 fresh Covid-19 related deaths taking the death toll to 155,447 or 1.43% of the national tally, as per the health ministry.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageOn February 2 and 9, there were 8,635 and 9,110 new cases respectively.After witnessing a marginal spike in the last daily count, the number of active cases once again saw a sharp decline, with a dip of 6,636 infections taking the tally to 135,926 or 1.31% of the total cases, as per the dashboard. Meanwhile, recoveries continued to rise, as 15,858 more patients were discharged in the last 24 hours, taking total recovered cases to 10,589,230 and the national recovery rate to 97.26%.According to the govt-run Indian Council Medical Research (ICMR), India’s latest new positive cases are from 765,944 samples tested by it on February 11. The agency has said that it has tested 204,789,784 samples for the disease thus far, including those from February 11.COVID-19 Testing Update. For more details visit: https://t.co/FQhg5Mn8Qn @MoHFW_INDIA @DeptHealthRes #ICMRFIGHTSCOVID19 #IndiaFightsCOVID19 #CoronaUpdatesInIndia #COVID19 #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/ZOERITiexeSignificantly, India has also crossed the 7.5 million mark in its vaccination drive against the pandemic. According to the health ministry’s website on Friday, a total of 7,505,010 beneficiaries have been vaccinated against Covid-19 till now. The vaccination drive, which began on January 16, is the largest globally and India, according to the ministry, has been the fastest to 1-7 million vaccination marks in the world.India, whose Covid-19 caseload is the second-highest globally after that of the United States, has been praised by the World Health Organization (WHO) for its handling of the pandemic. While India has seen a sharp decline in its daily new cases, the pandemic is still very much active in the US.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-reports-9-309-new-covid-19-cases-active-cases-below-140000-101613104747296.html
12-02-2021||India||Left calls 12-hour bandh in West Bengal. All you need to know||The Left Front in West Bengal has called a 12-hour state-wide bandh on Friday protesting police action on several Left and Congress activists on Thursday. On Thursday, many Left and Congress activists were injured during the clash with the police when they were marching towards the state secretariat at Nabanna in Kolkata with certain demands, including that of jobs.The clashes broke out when the police tried to stop the march in Central Kolkata and the agitating party workers tried to break the barricades. The police resorted to firing tear gas shells, using water cannons to disperse the activists, while the activists responded with stones and sticks.What is happening today?Traffic disruptions were reported as Left workers blocked roads at severe places in the stateThe Left party workers have blocked the train track at Kanchrapara railway station on Friday.Also Read | Schools reopen in West Bengal today; classes 9-12 to resumeCommunist Party of India-Marxist (CPI-M) workers have blocked Ghosh Para Road in Shyamnagar.Following the announcement of the bandh, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has cancelled all leaves and made attendance in government offices mandatory in a bid to resist the bandh.The bandh has been called after deliberations with the Left Front constituents and the Congress, which have stitched an alliance for the upcoming assembly election.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/left-calls-12-hour-bandh-in-west-bengal-all-you-need-to-know-101613104299853.html
12-02-2021||India||Harsh Vardhan calls Covaxin safe: What prompted his clarification||Union health minister Harsh Vardhan has dispelled concerns over India’s indigenous Covid-19 vaccine, Covaxin, saying it was produced after “due evaluation of pre-clinical and clinical trial data” and is “safe and immunogenic” for use. Here is what prompted Vardhan’s clarification:• It came after Chhattisgarh asked the Centre to halt the supply of the vaccine to the state till its efficacy was proven. • In a letter to Vardhan, Chhattisgarh health minister TS Singh Deo expressed concerns over the absence of expiry dates on the packages of the vials.Also Read | US secures 200 million more doses of Moderna, Pfizer Covid-19 vaccines• Deo said there is an inhibition/concern among the community in general regarding the use of Covaxin as clinical trials of phase 3 of the vaccine are yet to be completed. • He asked Vardhan to reconsider the decision to supply Covaxin to the state.• Vardhan cited new drugs and clinical trials rules and added in light of urgent need due to the Covid pandemic in the country, the National Regulator has granted permission to manufacture two Covid-19 vaccines based on the prescribed procedure and after due evaluation of pre-clinical and clinical trial data. • He said Covaxin and Covishield have been granted permission for restricted use in and they are safe and immunogenic.• Vardhan said expiry dates are mentioned on the label of Covaxin vaccine vials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/harsh-vardhan-calls-covaxin-safe-what-prompted-his-clarification-101613104405571.html
12-02-2021||India||‘Will join BJP when we have black snow in Kashmir,’ says Ghulam Nabi Azad||Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad has rejected speculation that he was likely to join the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) days after his farewell in Rajya Sabha grabbed the headlines as Prime Minister Narendra Modi broke down while talking about him on Tuesday. Modi heaped praise on Azad and called him a leader who cared for his party, country, and Parliament.“I will join the BJP when we have black snow in Kashmir,” he said in an interview with HT days before he is due to retire from Rajya Sabha on Monday.Azad said he has known Modi since the 90s when they would participate in TV debates. He added they fought, and even shared a cup of tea. Azad maintained those who say he will join the BJP or spread these rumours do not know him. Also Read | The entire population of J&K concerned over changes to its status: AzadAzad also spoke about his cordial ties with another BJP leader, late former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee. “When [BJP leader] Rajmata Scindia was the deputy leader of the Opposition, she stood up and said some allegation about me. I got up and I said that I take the allegation very seriously, and on behalf of the government, I would like to suggest a committee which would be chaired by [Atal Bihari] Vajpayee and would have her and [LK] Advani as members. I said that they should complete the report in 15 days, and whatever punishment they suggest, I will accept it. Vajpayeeji came in as I mentioned him and asked why. When I told him, he stood up and said ‘I offer my apologies to the House, and also to Ghulam Nabi Azad. Maybe Rajmata Scindia does not know him, but I do’.”Also Read | Very difficult for a young Muslim leader to aspire to be India’s Prime Minister: AzadAzad said Congress president Sonia Gandhi wrote a long letter to him appreciating his work all through as the party’s general secretary and the Leader of the Opposition in Rajya Sabha. “She also said that we have to work together to strengthen the organisation, and after that, I met her. She said we have to prepare for elections.” He added he has also met former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi twice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-join-bjp-when-we-have-black-snow-in-kashmir-says-ghulam-nabi-azad-101613103026457.html
12-02-2021||India||‘This isn’t give and take’: Rahul Gandhi attacks PM Modi over China border pact||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday attacked Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the Ladakh disengagement plan agreed with China, accusing the government of ceding Indian territory to China.“The Indian government’s position at the beginning of this (Ladakh standoff with China) was status quo ante starting April 2020, which is what they had been negotiating for. Now, the defence minister comes and makes a statement that Indian troops are going to be stationed at Finger 3,” Gandhi told a media briefing on Friday.Gandhi’s sharp attack on the government comes a day after defence minister Rajnath Singh briefed Parliament about the agreement between the Indian Army and China’s People’s Liberation Army that could end the months-long standoff.Under this agreement, Rajnath Singh said, the PLA will retreat to its base east of Finger 8 on the north bank of Pangong Tso and the Indian Army will move back to its permanent position near Finger 3. Neither side will patrol the contested areas in between until an agreement is reached through future talks.Gandhi said Finger 4 is India’s territory but the troops had been moved to Finger 3.The Bharatiya Janata Party and the government responded to the Congress leader, saying it was Jawaharlal Nehru who had ceded territory to the Chinese. "He must ask his grandfather (Jawaharlal Nehru) about who has given India's territory to China, he will get the answer... Who is a patriot and who is not, the public knows it all," junior home minister G Kishan Reddy said, according to news agency ANI.Gandhi claimed that the country’s armed forces were ready but the “Prime Minister is not ready to stand against the neighbouring nation.”“Why has Indian territory been given to the Chinese? This is the question that the Prime Minister and defence minister need to answer,” Gandhi said. The Congress leader also asked why the Chinese army hadn’t withdrawn from the Depsang Plains and Gogra-Hot Springs border.On a question suggesting that negotiations do involve 'give and take' by both parties, Gandhi shot back: "The give is clear that we gave Finger 4, they are sitting in Depsang, Gogra and Hot Spring. What is the take? There is no take, only give, and the reason is clear…. The PM couldn’t stand before China".“I am saying that it is the responsibility of the prime minister to protect the territory of this country. The prime minister has ceded Indian territory to the Chinese. It is his responsibility to solve that problem.How he doe it is his problem, not mine,” Gandhi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/forces-ready-but-pm-modi-not-ready-to-stand-against-china-says-rahul-gandhi-101613101796206.html
12-02-2021||India||UP gram panchayat election 2021: Rotational formula introduced for reservation||Ahead of UP gram panchayat election, scheduled to be held in April, the Yogi Adityanath government has announced a rotational formula for reservation according to which seats reserved for categories scheduled caste (SCs), scheduled tribe (STs) and other backward classes (OBCs) previously will not be reserved for the same categories this time. The formula states that the seats for the categories will be reserved on the basis of their population.The tenure of the village panchayats ended on December 25, 2020. A total of 57,207 heads will be elected this year."Out of total gram panchayat seats, 330 will be reserved for STs, 12,045 for SCs and 15,712 for OBCs. This reservation is on the basis of percentage of their population," said Manoj Kumar Singh, additional chief secretary, panchayati raj.The government has also found two Zila panchayat seats which were never reserved for SCs and OBCs till date, while seven were never reserved for women.Also Read | Lost cousins reunite after over 4 decades on banks of SangamSingh also said that the district magistrate will publish the list of seats for all posts around March 2 to 3 and the final list, after all the objections are cleared, will be published around March 10 to 12.Preference will be given to seats that have never been reserved till date. The 1995-2015 reservation system will be considered for the three-tier panchayat polls, Singh said, reported PTI."All seats of zila panchayat chairman, ward members, members of panchayat, gram pradhan and their members have been ascertained. The reservation status of seats in 2015 will not be repeated," Singh added.Uttar Pradesh panchayat elections were held in 1995, 2000, 2005, 2010 and 2015. Last week, the Allahabad High Court asked the state election commission to ensure that the elections are held by April 30 and had rejected the poll panel's undertaking to hold the elections by May.Currently, the state has 826 vikas khands (development blocks), and 58,194 gram sabhas. There are 7,31,813 wards in the gram sabhas,75,855 wards in kshetra panchayats and 30,051 wards in 75 zila panchayats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-gram-panchayat-election-2021-rotational-formula-introduced-for-reservation-101613101394878.html
12-02-2021||India||The entire population of J&K concerned over changes to its status: Azad||Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad has said the entire population of Jammu & Kashmir is concerned not just because of the nullification of the Constitution’s Article 370 but also the division and downgrading of the state to a Union Territory (UT).“We have been reduced to ashes,” he said in an interview with HT days before he is due to retire from Rajya Sabha on Monday. “I have only seen up-gradation of UTs [Union Territories] into states, and my own state, which is among the largest and oldest states in the country, has been made a UT. Nobody can digest that.”Article 370 was nullified in August 2019 to strip Jammu & Kashmir of its semi-autonomous status. The state was also divided into two Union territories of Ladakh and Jammu & Kashmir. A lockdown and communications blackout were imposed in the region and hundreds of people, including three former chief ministers, were detained to prevent protests against the changes to its constitutional status. The changes have triggered concerns about land rights and jobs in the region. The semi-autonomous status prevented non-residents from getting government jobs and buying land in Jammu & Kashmir. Also Read | ‘I will join the BJP when we have black snow in Kashmir’: Ghulam Nabi AzadAzad said Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s emotional farewell speech on the former’s retirement will not affect the issues of Jammu & Kashmir. Modi on Tuesday heaped praise on Azad and called him a leader who cared for his party, country, and Parliament. He broke down while recalling experiences with Azad.Azad said they have known each other since the 90s when they were both general secretaries of their parties. “...we used to come on TV debates representing different views; we used to fight also in the debates. But, if we reached early, we used to share a cup of tea also and chit-chat. Later we knew each other as chief ministers, meeting at the Prime Minister’s meetings, home minister’s meetings. Then he was CM [chief minister] and I was health minister, and we would speak every 10-15 days on different issues.”Also Read | Very difficult for a young Muslim leader to aspire to be India’s Prime Minister: AzadAzad said he did not know in which sense Congress leader Shashi Tharoor described Modi’s crying as an “artfully crafted performance”. “...most of the people did not know the background. A lot of people thought the PM [Prime Minister] was doing it artificially, because why should he bother that a Congressman is going. As I said, the words he used were for me, but our emotion was in a different context.” Azad said they cried not because they knew each other, but the reason was that, in 2006, a Gujarati tourist bus was attacked in Kashmir. “...I broke down while speaking to him. The PM [Modi] was saying that here is a person who is retiring who is also a good human being. He could not complete the story because he broke down, and when I wanted to complete the story, I could not because I felt I was back in that moment 14 years ago when the attack took place.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-entire-population-of-j-k-concerned-over-changes-to-its-status-azad-101613101705029.html
12-02-2021||India||2006 bus attack at centre of PM Modi’s emotional farewell speech for Ghulam Nabi Azad||After several opposition leaders, including Shashi Tharoor, termed Prime Minister Narendra Modi crying during his farewell speech for Ghulam Nabi Azad ‘artfully crafted performance’, the Congress leader on Thursday said most of the people didn’t know the background.“Why we were both crying was not because we knew each other, but the reason was that, in 2006, a Gujarati tourist bus was attacked [in Kashmir], and I broke down while speaking to him,” Azad told HT in an exclusive interview.Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in his farewell speech for Azad on Tuesday, described the Congress veteran as a leader who cared not just for his party, but about the country and its Parliament. Modi welled up while describing their past experiences. “The PM was saying that here is a person who’s retiring who is also a good human being. He couldn’t complete the story because he broke down, and when I wanted to complete the story, I couldn’t because I felt I was back in that moment 14 years ago when the attack took place,” Azad said.ALSO WATCH | 'Will join BJP when there's black snow in Kashmir': Congress' Ghulam Nabi Azad﻿Azad said that a lot of people thought the PM was doing it artificially, because why should he bother that a Congressman is going. “The words he used were for me, but our emotion was in a different context,” he explained.When asked if the gesture of the Prime Minister will resonate with a wider audience of Jammu & Kashmir, Azad said it was unlikely to affect the issues in Jammu and Kashmir. He also expressed his dissatisfaction over Jammu and Kashmir’s status as a Union territory. “The entire population is so concerned, not just about Article 370. Downgrading the state to a Union territory, which was not a BJP agenda, and the division of the state, have hurt everybody; we’ve been reduced to ashes. I’ve only seen upgradation of UTs into states, and my own state, which is among the largest and oldest states in the country, has been made a UT. Nobody can digest that,” he said.Talking about their early days and his relationship with Modi, Azad said they have known each other since the ‘90s when they were both general secretaries and represented different views on television debates. “We were both general secretaries, and we used to come on TV debates representing different views; we used to fight also in the debates. But, if we reached early, we used to share a cup of tea also and chit-chat.”He added that later they knew each other as chief ministers who met at the Prime Minister’s meetings and home minister’s meetings. “Then he was CM and I was health minister, and we would speak every 10-15 days on different issues,” Azad said.Azad’s four-decade-long stint in Parliament comes to an end on February 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2006-bus-attack-at-centre-of-pm-modi-s-emotional-farewell-speech-for-ghulam-nabi-azad-101613098528058.html
12-02-2021||India||DRDO photographer sentenced to life for espionage, likened to a terrorist||A contractual videographer for Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) has been sentenced to life by an Odisha court for sharing sensitive photographs of DRDO’s integrated missile test range in Chandipur with Pakistan’s intelligence agency ISI. The judge likened the convict’s act to that of terrorism.41-year-old Ishwar Behera, worked as a contractual videographer at the CCTV station of DRDO's missile test range facility at Chandipur. He was convicted under Sections 121A (espionage) and 120B of the IPC and 3, 4 and 5 of the Official Secrets Act and sentenced to life by the court of additional sessions judge Girija Prasad Mohapatra."The terrorist groups collect information from people of India like the present convict by providing them money. A group of these people of India are regularly supplying information to the enemies. People like Behera, (who) are putting the safety and security of the Union of India in the hands of the terrorists, are also terrorists. They are the active participants against the sovereignty of India. Whoever goes against the sovereignty of India would put India and its citizens in dangerous situations. They are required to be punished with utmost severity," judge Mohapatra said in his order. He said terror attacks carried out by Pakistan-based militants could happen in India because people like Behera provided them with information.Also Read: Odisha says Andhra ‘invading’ its territory, seeks contempt actionDuring investigation it was found that Behera would go close to the missile testing sites, take videos, and later leave for Kolkata on the pretext of getting his camera repaired. In Kolkata, he used to hand over the videos and other sensitive information to ISI agents. Ishwar was in touch with his handler over the phone and met him at least 10 times, the prosecution had claimed during the trial.It was also found that money had been transferred to his account from Abu Dhabi, Mumbai, Meerut, Andhra Pradesh and Bihar among others. He was under surveillance by the Intelligence Bureau (IB) before his arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drdo-photographer-sentenced-to-life-for-espionage-likened-to-a-terrorist-101613100448759.html
12-02-2021||India||Koo not leaking data, says co-founder; French hacker disagrees||As made-in-India Koo shot to overnight fame riding on Centre's displeasure with Twitter, the app was accused of leaking data which the founders of the app denied. But the controversy has not been put to rest yet.Here is all you need to know> French hacker who goes by the name Elliot Alderson on Twitter, who at one point of time accused Aadhaar of leaking data, levelled the allegation against Koo.> The hackers said he spent 30 minutes on the app and found that the application is leaking email id, date of birth, name, marital status, gender etc of users.You asked so I did it. I spent 30 min on this new Koo app. The app is leaking of the personal data of his users: email, dob, name, marital status, gender, ... https://t.co/87Et18MrOg pic.twitter.com/qzrXeFBW0LSome news about data leaking being spoken about unnecessarily. Please read this:The data visible is something that the user has voluntarily shown on their profile of Koo. It cannot be termed a data leak. If you visit a user profile you can see it anyway@aprameya the screenshots of the 1st tweet has been done on this profile. Where do you see her dob? Her gender? Her marital status? pic.twitter.com/RCkTfJU1Vw> One of the co-founders Aprameya Radhakrishnan on Thursday said that the controversy over data leak was unnecessary as those data are what the user has voluntarily provided.> When a user sets up a profile on Koo, information like name, handle, profession, bio, website, email, mobile, date of birth, gender, marital status, qualification, work experience etc. Providing this information is voluntary as only valid mobile phone number is required for creating an account.> Aprameya clarified that the data that was claimed to have been leaked was actually the data that a user "has voluntarily shown on their profile". "It cannot be termed a data leak. If you visit a user profile you can see it anyway," he said.> Alderson claimed that he checked the point before levelling the allegation and it was not true.> To sharpen his allegation against Koo, the hacker even shared the profile page of IAS officer Sonal Goel and claimed that he could access more data than what was displayed on Sonal Goel's profile page.> To this, Aprameya asked the hacker to contact him if he wants to help Koo in its journey to "do something for our country".> Aprameya also ensured that e-mail ids have been blocked from view.> All this happened on Twitter while a fake account of Koo on Twitter (@KooAppOfficial) also got suspended. @Kooindia is the official Twitter handle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/koo-not-leaking-data-says-co-founder-french-hacker-disagrees-101613098856708.html
12-02-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: US condemns China for banning BBC World News on mainland and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.US condemns China for banning BBC World News on mainlandThe United States on Thursday condemned China for banning the broadcasting of BBC World News for reporting on issues such as human rights violations in Xinjiang and the country's handling of Covid-19. Read more'Behen-Beti' Kangana won't face problem, says MP minister after Congress threatMadhya Pradesh home minister Narottam Mishra said Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut, who is like a sister-daughter, will not face any problem shooting in the state. Read moreDense fog envelops NW India; no major change in temperature likelyThere is dense fog this morning in many parts of northwest India, according to India Meteorological Department. Read moreIndia fastest country to vaccinate over 7million against Covid-19: Govt dataIndia has vaccinated more than 7 million people against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19, covering at least 50% of targeted health-care workers in 26 days of the launch of the world’s largest immunisation campaign. Read moreCongress' Rahul Gandhi slams ‘intent, content’ of farm lawsCongress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday used his turn in the discussion on the Union budget to lash out at three contentious farm laws enacted by the Narendra Modi government. Read moreBeing communal never crossed my mind: Wasim JafferFollowing the unprecedented allegations of communal bias made against former India opener Wasim Jaffer after he quit as coach of Uttarakhand’s state team. Read moreManya Singh, Miss India Runner-up and daughter of auto driver, shares life storyThat advertisement touched the hearts of many. Though that story was a made-up one, the story of recently crowned VLCC Femina Miss India 2020 Runner-up, Manya Singh's story is quite similar. Read moreSalman Khan thanks fans for their support after getting relief in Blackbuck caseActor Salman Khan has shared a special post on social media, thanking his fans and followers for their support. Read moreWatch | ‘CAA will be implemented after Covid-19 vaccination ends’: Amit Shah||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-us-condemns-china-for-banning-bbc-world-news-on-mainland-and-all-the-latest-news-101613098112648.html
12-02-2021||India||13 Maoists surrender in Chhattisgarh under Lon Varratu campaign||Thirteen suspected Maoists, including three with cash reward of ₹1 lakh each on their heads, surrendered in Chhattisgarh’s Dantewada district in Bastar region under the state government’s ‘Lon Varratu’ initiative, taking the total number of surrendered Maoists since the beginning of the programme in June 2020 to 310, police said on Thursday.The Maoists laid down their arms claiming they were disappointed with the ultras' 'hollow' ideology, police claimed.‘Lon Varratu’ in local Gondi language means Return Home. Maoists in about 50 hypersensitive villages are being encouraged to surrender under this programme. “The focus of Lon Varratu is to link surrendered cadres to some livelihood opportunities to help them earn a decent living and it has yielded very positive results. The district administration has provided them with tractors, agricultural equipment, construction work, benefits from veterinary and allied departments,” said a senior state official, who didn't wish to be named.Superintendent of Police, Dantewada, Abhishek Pallav three of the surrendered Maoists--Lakhma Midiyami, a Janmilitia commander, Bheema alias Kamlu Karma, president of the Maoist DKAMS (Dandakaranya Kisan Adivasi Mazdur Sangh) and Jogi Midiyami-- had rewards on their heads.Also Read: 2 CRPF jawans injured in gun-battle with Maoists in JharkhandDantewada police claimed that one Mangal Ram Sodhi, who was allegedly involved in an attack on the house of Congress leader Awdhesh Gautam also surrendered on Wednesday.However, tribal leaders have questioned the ‘Lon Varratu’ campaign in the past and claimed.“Who has given rights to the police to declare a person as a Maoist? Have they submitted the list of Maoists to a court? Farmers in their village are declared as Maoist under this campaign,” Sori had earlier said about the campaign.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/13-maoists-surrender-in-chhattisgarh-under-lon-varratu-campaign-101613097378746.html
12-02-2021||India||Dense fog envelops NW India; no major change in temperature likely||There is dense fog this morning in many parts of northwest India, according to India Meteorological Department.Amritsar, Patiala, Chandigarh, Ambala, Ganganagar and Gorakhpur recorded visibility of 25m; Bareilly 50m; Jammu, Palam (Delhi), Baharaich, Lucknow, Haldia and Diamond Harbour recorded 200m.Safdarjung (Delhi), Kolkata Dum Dum, Hissar, Patna, Purne recorded shallow fog at visibility of 500m.Dense to very dense fog is likely in isolated pockets over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, East Uttar Pradesh and northwest Rajasthan in the morning hours of February 12 & 13 and dense fog in isolated pockets over the same area in the morning hours of February 14.Dense fog is also likely in pockets over Bihar in the morning hours of February 12 and 13.Dry weather is likely over northwest India. No major changes in maximum or minimum temperature is expected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dense-fog-envelops-nw-india-no-major-change-in-temperature-likely-101613097684939.html
12-02-2021||India||President Kovind to open 'Udyanotsav' today, Mughal Gardens open for public from Feb 13||President Ram Nath Kovind will open Rashtrapati Bhavan's annual 'Udyanotsav' on Friday and the Mughal Gardens will be thrown open for public from February 13, but only with prior online booking. Besides the Mughal Gardens, visitors will also be allowed in the Rashtrapati Bhavan and Rashtrapati Bhavan Museum. Visitors will also be able to witness the Change of Guard Ceremony.Here's how you can book tickets and other details.> The Mughal Gardens will be open from February 13 to March 21. The garden will remain closed every Monday.> Gate no 35 of Rashtrapati Bhavan on North Avenue Road is marked for the entry to the garden.> No charge is levied on visitors' entry to the Mughal Gardens during the Udyanotsav on Friday.Also Read | India red-hot investment opportunity for its clean energy transition: John Kerry> For online booking, one can visit the President of India website- https://presidentofindia.gov.in/ and click on the Mughal Gardens link.> Booking can also be done on Rashtrapati Sachivalaya website- https://rashtrapatisachivalaya.gov.in and following explore and tour link.> A maximum of five visitors can be registered in a single booking. Only one booking allowed from one mobile number.> Booking for the visit date shall be done seven days in advance and booking for the date closes a day before the required visit date.> The visiting hours for the public have been divided into seven slots, each for an hour duration, between 10am and 5pm. The slots begin from 10amand the last entry is at 4pm.> Maximum 100 visitors are allowed per slot.> People below 10 years of age and above 65 years of age are not permitted to visit.Also Read | Coolers, fans, shade: Protesters at borders prepare a summer plan> Visitors need to carry the visitors pass for the entry, either in print or digital format, apart from an identity card.> Mobile phones need to be switched off in the premises. But if the entry pass is stored on mobile, then the visitors will have to switch off the phones after check-in.> Due to the coronavirus pandemic, before the entry, the visitors are required to provide an undertaking at the time of online booking. The undertaking should detail that the visitors are non-resident of any containment zone; they are not suffering from any fever, cough and any respiratory disease; not been under quarantine in the last three weeks and have neither tested Covid-19 positive in the last three weeks.> Visitors need to strictly adhere to the Covid safety protocol set by the government.> Eatables, paan, gutka, cigarette, backpack, camera and video camera are not permitted inside the garden.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/president-kovind-to-open-udyanotsav-today-mughal-gardens-open-for-public-from-feb-13-101613093802072.html
12-02-2021||India||Tamil Nadu BJP functionary booked under Goondas act for repeated hate speech||A Tamil Nadu BJP functionary R Kalyanaraman has been booked under the Goondas act on Thursday by Coimbatore district collector on recommendation from the state police to ensure he doesn’t get bail in a case of hate speech, an official said.“He is a repeat offender who has eight cases pending against him, out of which, he has secured bail in two cases. He’s under the Goondas act now as a preventive section to restrict him from seeking bail,” said Coimbatore superintendent of police (SP), A Arularasu.Kalyanaraman is presently at the Gobichettipalayam sub-jail following his arrest for making provocative comments against Islam and Prophet Mohammed while addressing BJP cadre in Mettupalayam on January 30.Also Read: ‘Alliances may change but ideology will not’: EPS assures Muslim voters in TNThe Goondas act is a popular name for Tamil Nadu Prevention of Dangerous Activities of Bootleggers, Drug Offenders, Goondas, Immoral Traffic Offenders, Forest Offenders, Sand Offenders, Slum-Grabbers and Video Pirates Act, 1982. The law aims at a year-long preventive detention of habitual offenders.On Thursday, Kalyanaraman was also booked in a different case by the Coimbatore police under section 505 (statements creating enmity) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) for a hate speech in Rathinapuri in March 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-bjp-functionary-booked-under-goondas-act-for-repeated-hate-speech-101613095593771.html
12-02-2021||India||India red-hot investment opportunity for its clean energy transition: John Kerry||India is actually a red-hot investment opportunity for its clean energy transition, top US official John Kerry said on Thursday as he praised Prime Minister Narendra Modi for his commitment to addressing the challenge posed by climate change which the Biden Administration believes poses an existential threat to humanity.Kerry, the Special Presidential Envoy for Climate, said he intends to work "very, very closely with" with Indian leadership including Prime Minister Modi and external minister S Jaishankar."We believe India can be one of the most critical transitional countries in this entire endeavour. I am confident that just as we have worked very closely on any number of issues in these last years, our two nations -- the world's two biggest democracies -- have a great deal to gain from joining hands in our global leadership and confronting the climate crisis to meet this moment," he said."India is actually a red-hot investment opportunity for its clean energy transition," Kerry, the first official on climate to be inside the US National Security Council, said in his address to the World Sustainable Development Summit 2021.Looking forward to visiting India soon, Kerry said that the prime minister has made a very important contribution to this dialogue. Needless to say, India is deeply committed to this challenge and it has been for a considerable number of years, he said."You are indisputably a world leader in the deployment of renewable energy and your leadership of the International Solar Alliance, which Minister Jaishankar referred to, is absolutely critical for not just India, but for other dynamic, growing economies in the world,” Kerry said.Prime Minister Modi's announcement of a target of 450 gigawatts of renewables by 2030 is a strong, terrific example of how to power a growing economy with clean energy, and it's going to be one of the most important contributions because India today is already the third largest emitter in the world behind the United States and China, he said.Referring to a latest report of the International Energy Agency, he said India's down payment on the clean energy transition puts it on pace to become the global market leader in solar and storage by 2040. "And thanks to your rapid scale-up, it's already cheaper to build solar in India than anywhere else in the world. That kind of urgency is exactly what we need in order to confront the crisis that we confront today," he said.After coming to power, the Biden Administration has quickly established contacts with the Indian leadership. The leadership of the two countries at the top level have known each other for long and have put the relationship on fast-track. In a recent interview, India's Ambassador to the US, Taranjit Singh Sandhu, had identified climate change as one of the key pillars of collaboration between the two countries.It was one of the topics of discussion between Prime Minister Modi and President Joe Biden earlier this week and also when they spoke in November soon after the US election results were announced.In his speech, Kerry made it clear that India is a key partner of the US under the Biden Administration and would take it over from where the relationship was left by the previous Trump Administration.On climate change, Kerry said that he knows that Prime Minister Modi is “committed to this and seized by it”, and so are Indian businesses."I was also very heartened to see the recent government budget focussed heavily on clean energy and propose a very specific hydrogen energy mission,” he said.“By 2030, the International Energy Agency forecasts that if India drives even more aggressively towards this clean energy transition, it will create half a million additional jobs than business as usual would create. Indian industry is obviously already stepping up and showing leadership. I was very pleased to hear that dozens of India's biggest companies recently signed a declaration on climate change, pledging to go carbon neutral," Kerry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-red-hot-investment-opportunity-for-its-clean-energy-transition-john-kerry-101613093903999.html
12-02-2021||India||'Behen-Beti' Kangana won't face problem, says MP minister after Congress threat||Madhya Pradesh home minister Narottam Mishra said Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut, who is like a sister-daughter, will not face any problem shooting in the state after Congress leaders issued threats to stop Kangana's shooting in the state unless she apologised for her tweets on farmers.The actor is shooting for her upcoming film Dhakad in Betul's Sarni district. Before starting the shooting, the actor had met Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan.Congress leaders Manoj Arya and Chicholi block Congress committee president Nekram Yadav submitted a memorandum against Kangana in Betul saying Kangana would not be allowed to shoot at Sarni unless she apologises for her comments on the farmers' protest by Friday evening.मुझे नेतागीरी में कोई इंटरेस्ट नहीं .... मगर लगता है कांग्रिस मुझे नेता बनाकर ही छोड़ेगी... 🙂 https://t.co/O6ux4r7Tm6Kangana's tweets on farmers' protests drew action from the microblogging platform as her two tweeted have been deleted in the recent past. She has drawn flak for calling these protesting farmers terrorists.But the actor will not face any problem shooting in the state, the home minister said. "I had a telephonic talk with the Betul Superintendent of Police. Law will take its own course and will be adhered to. I am trying to contact behen-beti Kangana. She won't face any problem," he said, as quoted by ANI.Kangana too has reacted to the developments in Madhya Pradesh and said though she had no interest in "netagiri", the Congress will make a leader out of her.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/behenbeti-kangana-won-t-face-problem-says-mp-minister-after-congress-threat-101613093663906.html
12-02-2021||India||23 cases filed under MP's new anti-conversion law in January||As many as 23 cases were registered under an anti-conversion law in Madhya Pradesh within a month of it coming into force, Home Minister Narottam Mishra said on Thursday.Early last month, the BJP government promulgated the Freedom of Religion Ordinance, 2020, which penalises religious conversions by misrepresentation, allurement, use of threat of force, undue influence, coercion, marriage or by any other fraudulent means.The law provides for up to 10 years in jail in some cases and hefty fine for violators."Twenty three cases have been registered under the MP Freedom of Religion Ordinance in the state in January (the month it came into force), Mishra told reporters here.He said the highest number of seven cases was reported in the Bhopal division followed by five in Indore, four each in Jabalpur and Rewa, and three in the Gwalior division.Mishra said religious conversion through fraudulent means is a serious issue and the practice needs to be stopped."Since the beginning, we have been saying it is a serious issue and happening on a large scale in the state and across the country for which I am not authorised (to speak)."Such people and forces were active and they needed to be checked. And to this end, the state set the ball rolling (by enacting the law) and this is the figure (23) that has come forth in a month in MP, the minister said, justifying the controversial law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/23-cases-filed-under-mp-s-new-anti-conversion-law-in-january-101613091578987.html
12-02-2021||India||Drafting of law to curb stone-pelting in final stages: MP CM Shivraj Chouhan||Asserting that it is 'raj dharma' to take action against criminals, Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Thursday said that the law is being drafted to take action against stone-pelters."It is 'raj dharma' to take action against criminals. Stone pelting is not an ordinary violation of law and order that is why it requires an extraordinary law. The draft is in its final stage and the law is being made," Chouhan told reporters when asked about his reported remark for bringing a strict law to curb stone-pelting.Reportedly, the new Madhya Pradesh law will have a provision for auctioning the assets of stone pelters to repay for any damage caused to public property or an individual.The law is being formulated in the wake of a recent incident of stone-pelting, after which more than 24 people were arrested in Gautampura area of Indore on December 29, 2020.A public awareness rally was reportedly organised from Dharmat to Chandkhedi, Kanwasa, Sunala back to Rudrakhya via Khadotya in connection with the construction of Ram temple in Ayodhya where an incident of stone-pelting occurred after some people opposed the rally.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drafting-of-law-to-curb-stone-pelting-in-final-stages-mp-cm-shivraj-chouhan-101613090439064.html
12-02-2021||India||Smriti Irani hits out at Rahul Gandhi in Lok Sabha, says he is spreading lies||Textiles Minister Smriti Irani on Thursday launched a scathing attack in Lok Sabha on Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, accusing him of spreading lies and saying he may not accept the budget, but people will.Making an intervention in the general discussion on the Union Budget in Lok Sabha, Irani said that she did not expect Gandhi to support a budget which intended to promote the government's ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ drive and unite the country.Earlier in the day, Gandhi had alleged that the three new farm laws would damage the country's food security system as also "break the spine of farmers" and said that the country was being run by only four people with a 'Hum do, Hamare do' approach.In a dramatic move, Gandhi also led his party members and those from the TMC and the DMK to observe a two-minute silence by standing to mourn the death of farmers during the ongoing agitation against the laws.Claiming that "200 farmers" have died during protests, he said he was doing this as the government has not paid tributes to them.The BJP fielded Irani, who had defeated Gandhi in Amethi during the Lok Sabha elections, to respond to the Congress leader.Without naming Gandhi, Irani wondered how could someone construct a building on the edifice of lies and walk away after showing his back.“He may not accept the budget, but people will accept the budget which is a budget to unite people and not to break the nation,” Irani said amid thumping of desks by BJP members.She accused the Congress of spreading lies about the MSP, which the government has repeatedly said would continue.Irani wanted to know what the Congress governments did to mitigate the hardships of farmers, especially farmers of Amethi, the traditional parliamentary constituency of the Gandhis.If someone has done something for the people of Amethi, may it be constructing toilets, building roads or other public facilities, it was (Prime Minister) “Narendra Damodardas Modi”, she said and emphasised it repeatedly during her speech.The minister said that it was the Modi government which gave free ration to 80 crore people during the lockdown period. Of these 3.18 lakh people of Amethi got free ration, she added.Irani said that Amethi lacked basic facilities like good hospitals, roads and official buildings, and the Congress government did nothing for years. Many of these projects have been undertaken by the Modi government, she said.On the accusation of the Congress that farmers will lose their land because of the three farm laws, she said that it was a Congress-backed trust which took away the land belonging to farmers in Amethi.Speaking during the discussion, RLP member Hanuman Beniwal urged the government to withdraw the three farm laws and provide legal guarantee to the minimum support price (MSP).Farmers have a lot of hope from the Modi government and it should respond positively to the demands of farmers who are agitating on the borders of Delhi, he added.Thousands of farmers have been protesting at Delhi's borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh demanding the rollback of the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.The protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporations.However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring farmers better opportunities and usher in new technologies in agriculture.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/smriti-irani-hits-out-at-rahul-gandhi-in-lok-sabha-says-he-is-spreading-lies-101613087118384.html
12-02-2021||India||India fastest country to vaccinate over 7million against Covid-19: Govt data||India has vaccinated more than 7 million people against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19, covering at least 50% of targeted health-care workers in 26 days of the launch of the world’s largest immunisation campaign, making it fastest to reach the landmark, the government data show.Fifty percent of accredited social health activists (ASHA), who are community health workers and part of the National Health Mission (NHM), has also been vaccinated against the viral disease as of Wednesday, February 10.The 26 days in which India crossed 7 million vaccinations made the country the fasted to reach the mark. The United States was the closest second, having taken 27 days to vaccinate 7 million of its citizens, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare.Click here for complete Covid-19 coverage“The idea to start Covid-19 vaccination with health care workers made sense for the precise reason that if there were any glitches, those would be addressed before the drive is scaled up. It is picking up and states are vaccinating more numbers on a daily basis. This is a positive step,” said Dr MC Misra, former director of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi.India started the Covid-19 immunisation drive on January 16 with two locally manufactured vaccines, Covishield developed by Oxford University-AstraZeneca and made by Serum Institute of India (SII), Pune, and Covaxin, developed and produced by Bharat Biotech International. It immediately started administering the jabs to health-care workers in the first phase. The government estimates that close to 10 million health-care workers are registered to receive the vaccine against Covid-19.“India has become the fastest country in the world to achieve over 70 lakh vaccinations against Covid-19. India accomplished this feat in only 26 days, while it took 27 days for the United States (US) and 48 days for the United Kingdom (UK) to reach the same figures. India has also been the fastest to touch the 6 million mark a few days back,” the Union health ministry said in a statement on Thursday.As of the morning of Thursday (February 11), 7,017,114 beneficiaries had received the first shot under the countrywide Covid-19 vaccination exercise.The cumulative vaccination coverage of includes 5,705,228 health-care workers (HCWs) and 1,311,886 front-line workers (FLWs), who include municipal workers, police and civil defence personnel. All these individuals have received the shot in 143,056 sessions that have been conducted so far across the country.Uttar Pradesh has vaccinated 673,542 individuals, followed by Gujarat with 6 14, 530 vaccinations . In Maharashtra, 573,681 health-care workers have received their first dose of Covid-19 vaccination.“4,05,349 beneficiaries (HCWs- 94,890 and FLWs- 3,10,459) were vaccinated on Day-26 (10th Feb 2021) across 8,308 sessions. The number of beneficiaries being vaccinated every day has shown a progressive increase. 13 States/UTs have vaccinated over 65% of the registered healthcare workers (HCWs). Bihar leads with over 79.4% of the registered HCWs vaccinated,” the health ministry statement said.After Bihar, other states that have provided shots to the maximum number of HCWs so far are Tripura (77.8%), Madhya Pradesh (76%), Odisha (73.9%), Uttarkhand (73.7%), Himachal Pradesh (72.5%), Lakshadweep (70.7%), Kerala (70.5%) and Mizoram (70.4%), among others.However, there are at least seven states that have still reported only either 40% coverage or below, and have been specifically directed by the Centre to improve their performance.The Union territory of Puducherry has vaccinated only 17.5% of targeted beneficiaries , the lowest proportion immunised against the disease in any state or Ut.“States have been given a deadline for both health-care workers and frontl-ine workers, to schedule at least one dose by then and even conduct mop-up rounds to accommodate the registered beneficiaries through the Co-WIN app, falling which the remaining beneficiaries will be rolled over in the age-appropriate category as we cannot keep scheduling and re-scheduling sessions indefinitely. There is a large number of beneficiaries that still needs to be covered,” said Rajesh Bhushan, secretary, ministry of health and family welfare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-fastest-country-to-vaccinate-over-7million-against-covid-19-govt-data-101613084121019.html
12-02-2021||India||Centre seeks action over violence against minorities in Pakistan||India has taken up instances of violence against minorities in neighbouring countries, including Pakistan, both bilaterally and at international forums and sought action to bring the perpetrators of such incidents to justice, the government informed Parliament on Thursday.Responding to questions in Rajya Sabha, minister of state for external affairs V Muraleedharan said reports of violence and harassment of members of minority communities in Pakistan, Bangladesh and Afghanistan are a “matter of concern to the government” that are “raised with the respective countries at bilateral levels”.“Upon occurrence of incidents of sporadic violence against minorities and their places of worship in Afghanistan and Bangladesh, these issues are raised formally as well as informally with the respective interlocutors,” he said in his reply to a question from MP Kirodi Lal Meena.The governments of Afghanistan and Bangladesh have assured India that “they take all possible steps to protect their citizens, including religious minorities”, Muraleedharan said.“In Pakistan, incidents of killing, persecution, intimidation, abduction, forced conversions, desecration and vandalisation of places of worship of minorities and attacks on their business establishments are regularly reported in the media. The issue of the continued mistreatment of minority communities in Pakistan is highlighted by India through bilateral diplomatic channels and at international fora, including at the United Nations,” he added.Replying to a separate question, Muraleedharan said there have been reports of “atrocities and acts of vandalism of places of religious worship” belonging to minorities in Pakistan.The government has raised such cases with the Pakistan government and called on it to “take steps to protect and promote the safety, security and well-being of its minority communities and their places of religious worship”. He added: “Pakistan has also been asked to take immediate measures to expeditiously bring the perpetrators of such despicable and heinous acts to justice.”In his response to yet another question, Muraleedharan said Pakistan has acknowledged that 270 fishermen, who are Indian or believed to be Indian, are in the country’s jails.Under the agreement on consular access signed 2008, lists of civilian prisoners and fishermen of each country held in jails of the other are exchanged on January 1 and July 1 every year.As a result of the government’s efforts, a total of 2,100 Indian fishermen and 57 fishing boats have been repatriated from Pakistan since 2014, he said. The government attaches the highest priority to the welfare and security of Indian fishermen and all possible assistance, including legal aid, is provided to the fishermen for their early release and repatriation, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-seeks-action-over-violence-against-minorities-in-pakistan-101613083954740.html
12-02-2021||India||Congress' Rahul Gandhi slams ‘intent, content’ of farm laws||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday used his turn in the discussion on the Union budget to lash out at three contentious farm laws enacted by the Narendra Modi government, and laid out what he described as problematic “content” and dubious “intent” behind the three pieces of legislation.Gandhi also tweaked India’s once-ubiquitous family planning slogan to tell an obstreperous Lok Sabha: “This government is for ‘Hum do hamare do’.” He did not name anyone, but kept implying through the speech that the country was being run by, and for, four people.“Earlier the family planning slogan was ‘Hum do hamare do’. Just like corona, this slogan has come in a different form. Today, the country is run by four people. This government is for ‘Hum do hamare do,” he said amid protests and taunts from the treasury benches.The BJP hit back through junior finance minister Anurag Thakur, who, in a detailed rebuttal, said: “Hum do hamare Do” refers to “Didi, brother-in-law, and family.” He did not take any names either.Though Gandhi participated in the debate on the general budget, he spoke only on farmers’ issues. He ignored the demands of BJP ministers and the Speaker’s request to stick to the topic — first saying he would get to it, then saying he was “laying the foundation”, and finally that will not say anything on the budget since a separate discussion on farm issues was not allowed by the government despite demands by the Opposition. He also led several Opposition MPs into observing a short silence to honour the farmers who died during the ongoing protest on the entry points to the Capital since November 26.Thakur later attacked Gandhi for not speaking about the budget. “This was quite surprising since the Opposition wanted Parliament to convene to discuss the economic situation arising due to Covid-19, and the measures adopted by the government in its budget.” He also quipped, “I can understand that the member may not have prepared his budget speech. He wasn’t here for other speeches.”On Wednesday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had said that the Opposition did not speak about the “intent” and “content” of the three farm bills during the debate on the President’s speech.Gandhi, by way of response , said on Thursday that he will “make the PM happy” by doing so. Gandhi said that the first law’s content “is that anyone can buy unlimited amount of foodgrain anywhere, so that it will finish the mandis”; the second law’s content “is to end Essential Commodities Act to allow unlimited hoarding in the country”; and the and the third law’s content is that “if a farmer does not get the price of his produce from a big industrialist, he cannot go to court”.Gandhi, who alleged that crony capitalism exists in the National Democratic Alliance regime, said the intent of the first legislation is “one of the two biggest friends” will be given “the right to sell India’s entire food grain, vegetables and fruits” and it will result in “losses for street hawkers, small traders and millions who work in mandis”.The intent of the second law, he said, was to “help the second friend to create monopoly in food grain, fruits and vegetables storage” who already “keeps 40% of India’s food grain in his storage”.Gandhi also satirically said the PM’s assurance that the new farm laws were “optional” was right. “He has given three options: hunger, unemployment, suicide.”To be sure, even in the run up to both 2014 and 2019 national elections, Gandhi alleged that the NDA works for a few friendly industrialists. Recently, the Wayanad MP alleged that the PM is trying to turn India into monopolies run by a handful of people.Gandhi also linked the farm laws with demonetisation and GST (he described it as “Gabbar Singh Tax”) and alleged the government’s idea was to “take money from poor people, farmers and workers” to put them in the pockets of some people.Lending support to farm protests, Gandhi said: “What the country is witnessing is not a farmers’ movement, it is a national movement. The country will rise against ‘Hum do hamare do’. You think you can buy farmers, workers and small traders. You take it from me in writing,farmers will not budge an inch. Farmers traders, workers will remove you. You have to take back the law.”Thakur, when he spoke, hit back by saying that the Congress party had merely done sloganeering for the poor for 70 years, without giving them anything. “Some raised slogans of Garibi Hatao (remove poverty); five generations ruled the country, but poverty did not go. But the son of a poor man (Modi) lifted many out of poverty. Some people only make electoral promises and do not deliver,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-rahul-gandhi-slams-intent-content-of-farm-laws-101613083118324.html
12-02-2021||India||‘Nothing conceded’: Centre on LAC troop pullback deal||The Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) will retreat to its base east of Finger 8 on the north bank of Pangong Tso, the Indian Army will move back to its permanent position near Finger 3 and neither side will patrol the contested areas in between until an agreement is reached through future talks, defence minister Rajnath Singh told Parliament on Thursday, explaining the nuances of a disengagement plan hammered out by the two armies to reduce military tensions in eastern Ladakh.Until now, rival soldiers have been deployed eyeball-to-eyeball on the Finger 4 ridgeline at heights of almost 18,000 feet.The Chinese defence ministry announced the disengagement on Wednesday; New Delhi did not react immediately because Parliament was in session, and a day later, Singh briefed the House on the breakthrough in a months-long impasse.In a detailed statement on the situation in eastern Ladakh, Singh told Rajya Sabha and later Lok Sabha that the next meeting between senior military commanders of the two armies to discuss other issues will take place 48 hours after “complete disengagement” in the Pangong Lake area — both north and south banks.Singh told both Houses that India did not “concede anything” during the military talks, and added that there were still some “outstanding issues regarding deployment and patrolling” at some other points along the LAC, and these will be the focus of further discussions with the Chinese side.He did not name the other friction points where disengagement is expected to take place in phases after it is completed in the Pangong Tso area. These flashpoints include Gogra, Hot Springs and Kongka La — areas that were traditionally not disputed as both sides had a somewhat common perception of the Line of Actual Control (LAC).The minister’s statement came on the back of a limited withdrawal of front-line troops by the Indian and Chinese armies from the Pangong Tso area on the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC). India and China on Wednesday pulled back tanks and infantry combat vehicles from heights on the south bank of Pangong Tso a fortnight after military commanders agreed on January 24 to push for an early disengagement of their front-line troops.The Indian Army on Thursday released visuals of rival tanks disengaging from the heights on the south bank. The tanks were deployed barely 50 metres away from each other. In Lok Sabha, Singh said disengagement was progressing smoothly and the vehicles (armoured elements) that were to retreat (from heights on the south bank) had gone back to their respective sides.“The agreement that we have been able to reach with the Chinese side for disengagement in the Pangong lake area envisages that both sides will cease their forward deployments in a phased, coordinated and verified manner. The Chinese side will keep its troop presence in the north bank area to the east of Finger 8. Reciprocally, the Indian troops will be based at their permanent base at Dhan Singh Thapa post near Finger 3,” Singh said in his highly anticipated statement on the Ladakh standoff.Similar actions will be taken on the south bank by both armies, Singh said, without elaborating on the areas to which rival soldiers will fall back.The Finger Area, a set of eight cliffs jutting out of the Sirijap range overlooking the Pangong lake, is one of the many friction points in the eastern Ladakh theatre, where India and China have together deployed almost 100,000 soldiers and advanced weaponry in their forward and depth areas.Describing the disengagement measures as “mutual and reciprocal,” Singh said structures built by both sides after April 2020 at heights on both banks of the lake will be removed. Patrolling will be a strict no-no in the north bank areas to pre-empt the possibility of more face-offs.India and China agreed to have a “temporary moratorium on military activities” by both sides on the north bank, including a freeze on patrolling to traditional areas.“Patrolling will be resumed only when both sides reach an agreement in diplomatic and military talks that would be held subsequently. The implementation of this agreement has started yesterday in the north and south bank of the Pangong Lake. It will substantially restore the situation to that existing prior to commencement of the standoff last year,” the minister said.Some thinning out of rival troops on both banks of Pangong Tso took place on Thursday , people familiar with the development said. “We expect complete disengagement in the Pangong Tso area in about two weeks,” one of the people said on condition of anonymity.Experts welcomed the disengagement process but urged India to proceed with caution to avoid being surprised.“The disengagement process is in line with what India had been demanding - a restoration of status quo ante. The Pangong Tso area has been the main point of contention and resolving this could provide an impetus for other areas where some issues remain,” said former Northern Army commander Lieutenant General DS Hooda (retd).The temporary moratorium on patrolling will ensure that incidents like patrol clashes are avoided as these could vitiate the atmosphere, Hooda added.This is the first significant movement in negotiations to ease tensions in eight months — disengagement in Galwan valley took place in early July 2020 but it did not progress in other areas. The development has turned the spotlight on how the broader disengagement plan will unfold in other flashpoints where rival soldiers are deployed eyeball-to-eyeball and where previous attempts to reduce military tensions have failed.PLA’s aggressive forward deployments in eastern Ladakh have hindered the Indian Army’s patrolling patterns in several areas including Depsang, Finger Area on the northern bank of Pangong Tso, Gogra and Kongka La. Regaining access to several areas that are now difficult to reach due to actions by the Chinese army along LAC is critical.“We have agreed that both sides should achieve complete disengagement at the earliest and abide fully by the bilateral agreements and protocols. By now, the Chinese side is also fully aware of our resolve. It is, therefore, our expectation that the Chinese side will work with us to resolve these remaining issues,” Singh said.PLA’s deployments in Depsang have hindered access of Indian soldiers to routes including the ones leading to Patrolling Points (PP) 10, 11, 11-A, 12 and 13. In 2013, PLA set up positions 19km into the Indian side of the LAC in the Depsang sector and triggered a face-off that took three weeks to resolve. The situation at Depsang predates the current round of border tensions and it is likely to be taken up separately with the Chinese, the people cited above said.The Indian Army’s patrolling activity has also been affected in Gogra, Hot Springs and Kongka La where rival troops are forward deployed and where skeletal disengagement took place last year, but the gains could not be consolidated.In a statement in Parliament last September, Singh said no force in the world can stop the Indian Army from patrolling its borders.“Since last September, both sides have maintained communication with each other through military and diplomatic channels. Our objective was to effect disengagement and maintain status quo along the LAC so as to restore peace and tranquillity,” Singh said on Thursday.He said the actions by the Chinese side since last year seriously disturbed peace and tranquillity, and impacted the overall bilateral relationship. “In our various high-level interactions with the Chinese side…we have made it clear that the foremost need was to ensure disengagement in all the friction points along the LAC in the western sector,” the minister said.He said the Indian military responded firmly to the challenges posed by the unilateral Chinese action and showed valour and courage on both banks of Pangong Tso.“Many strategically important points were identified and our troops positioned themselves at those hilltops and at locations which were very important from our point of view. It is because of this great bravery of our armed forces in the face of harsh adverse climatic conditions that we maintained the edge,” Singh said.The Indian Army occupied a series of key heights to prevent the PLA from grabbing Indian territory on the south bank of Pangong Tso in a stealthy midnight move on August 29, 2020. The taking of these strategic heights allowed the Indian Army to negotiate with the Chinese side from a position of strength.“To ensure disengagement in friction points along the LAC, it was our view that troops of both sides, who are now in close proximity, should vacate the forward deployments made in 2020 and return to the permanent and accepted bases,” Singh added.In a show of strength, India carried out a raft of missile tests when the border row with China was at its peak last year. New Delhi also spent an extra ₹20,776 crore on the emergency purchase of weapons and systems to beef up its military capabilities to deal security challenges posed by China.Steps were also taken on the economic front to put pressure on China after the June 15 Galwan Valley clash that left 20 Indian and an unspecified number of PLA soldiers dead.India’s first direct economic reaction was the announcement of a ban on scores of Chinese mobile applications, including Tik-Tok, UC Browser and WeChat, on June 29, 2020. The following month India barred the award of any project to contractors from countries sharing land borders with India without prior registration with a competent authority and security clearances from the ministry of external affairs and ministry of home affairs. India has also imposed anti-dumping duties on several Chinese products.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nothing-conceded-centre-on-lac-troop-pullback-deal-101613082660208.html
12-02-2021||India||Number Theory: The data India needs to diagnose the economy||India imposed one of the world’s most stringent lockdowns -- it went on for 68 days -- starting on March 25 to curb the spread of Covid-19 infections. It was this lockdown which triggered a record contraction of 24% in India’s gross domestic product (GDP) in the first quarter of fiscal 2020-21. The economic shock led to projections of a sharp fall in GDP in 2020-21. With the removal of lockdown restrictions, and more importantly, no second wave of infections, the economy is expected to do better than had been expected.Most forecasters, institutional and private, have revised their GDP estimates for both 2020-21 and 2021-22. Many, including the government, claim that the economy is on course to a V-shaped recovery, and the lockdown has not left any significant scars on the economy. Others, including some reputed economists, do not agree with this assessment. They argue that a large section of the economy has suffered badly because of the disruption caused by the lockdown and this will continue to generate headwinds for growth. Which of these sides is closer to the truth? Unfortunately, we do not have enough empirical evidence to clinch this debate either way at the moment. Here are four data points, which we do not have, but could have helped in settling this debate.Consumption levels and inequality in IndiaIndia does not have official statistics on income. The closest proxy for these is the Consumption Expenditure Survey (CES) which used to be conducted every five years by the National Sample Survey Office (NSSO). The latest results for CES go back to 2011-12. While a CES was conducted in 2017-18, its findings were junked by the government. Private Final Consumption Expenditure (PFCE), which accounts for more than half of India’s GDP, is the single largest determinant of growth. Headline PFCE growth fell sharply from 7.6% in 2018-19 to 5.6% in 2019-20 and further to a 9.4% contraction in 2020-21. However, we still do not know the nature of this slowdown and contraction. Is it the poor who have been consuming less or has there been a deceleration across classes? This information is crucial in making any policies to boost consumer spending. India conducts a large Periodic Labour Force Survey every year for employment statistics. There is no reason why the same cannot be done for consumption expenditure.Inflation numbers can vary depending on the average consumption basketIndia’s benchmark inflation rate, as measured by the Consumer Price Index (CPI), stayed above the upper limit of the Reserve Bank of India’s tolerance range between April and November 2020. The moderation in inflation in December was largely on account of a sharp fall in vegetable prices. Inflation going out of control can hurt real incomes and, therefore, demand.The headline inflation index is a weighted average of different items in what is deemed to be the average consumption basket of a household. This is decided on the basis of CES data. Because India does not have CES data after 2011-12, CPI has not been updated for possible changes in the consumption basket. The weight of food items in subsequent CES has been coming down in India. This would suggest that inflation numbers could be lower -- food has been a major driver of inflation -- if the CPI basket were to be updated. The 2020-21 Economic Survey hinted at this when it called for greater focus on core (non-food, non-fuel inflation) rather than the headline inflation number. What has also been happening to households’ food budgets is a shift from cereals to fruits and vegetables. This could make the headline inflation number far more volatile going forward.Intra-country remittances dataThe biggest disruption the lockdown inflicted was on incomes of migrant workers, millions of whom were forced to return to their homes in the countryside. A disruption to the migrant-worker economy entails a double whammy for the economy, because their incomes are crucial drivers of consumption in both their place of work as well as their villages and home towns. The latter is on account of remittances. It is an important determinant of consumption in states that send a lot of migrant workers out. For example, a 2018 World Bank paper by Gaurav Nayyar and Kyoung Yang Kim found that migrant remittances had a share of 35% in Bihar’s gross state domestic product (GSDP) and positively affected consumption at the household level. Thanks to what can be termed a digital revolution in the financial sector, many blue-collar workers use formal channels to send money back home. Suitable filters can be applied to build some sort of a database to capture this movement. This can help a lot in connecting the dots between the economic fortunes of urban clusters and migrant exporting regions.A more frequent debt and investment surveyThe pandemic is expected to have a mixed effect on household finances. Experts have pointed out that many households could have increased their savings due to two reasons. First is what is referred to as a precautionary motive, with non-essential spending being deferred in the expectation of a health or income shock. Secondly, the lockdown is expected to have disrupted many consumption activities such as travelling and eating out and added to the savings pool. On the other hand, there have also been anecdotal accounts of households having to deplete their savings to cope with the pandemic’s economic shock. Reports of withdrawals from provident fund accounts and a proliferation of predatory online lending platforms, which charge very high interest rates, are some such examples. Going forward, these are expected to have opposite effects on aggregate demand. While forced savings could be deployed aggressively in the future, households with depleted savings or accumulated debt are likely to cut back on consumption. It would help if we had a clear idea of what the net effect has been across different households.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/number-theory-the-data-india-needs-to-diagnose-the-economy-101613079758451.html
12-02-2021||India||Solar case: Court cancels bails of two key accused||A local court in Kozhikode cancelled on Thursday the bail granted to two key accused in the solar panel fraud case — Saritha Nair and her husband Biju Radhakrishnan — after they failed to appear before it. Ordering their arrest, the court scheduled the next hearing on February 25.The case centres around a fictitious solar energy company called Team Solar formed in 2013 allegedly by Saritha Nair and Radhakrishnan, who boasted of their contacts with the chief minister’s office, and cheated people out of money by seeking investments with the promise of making them business partners or offering to install solar power units. Radhakrishnan was also named accused in a murder case.The case surfaced in 2014 and 60 cases were registered against Nair and her husband, of which they have been convicted in four and were currently out on bail. Oommen Chandy, the then chief minister of Kerala, sacked two of his private secretaries and the state public relations director when their names cropped up in the case.Nair has also accused many Congress leaders, including Chandy, of sexually harassing her. This case was handed over to the CBI last month by the Pinarayi Vijayan Government.On Thursday, the court was hearing a case filed by businessman Abdul Majeed with the Kasaba police in 2012, who has accused the two of taking ₹42.70 lakh from him for providing franchise in their company besides installing solar panels in his office and house. But neither the contract was executed nor money refunded, the complainant stated.Biju Radhakrishanan and Saritha are the first and second accused respectively in the case, trial of which began on January 25, 2018. As many as 36 witnesses were examined during the trial that concluded in October 2018.On January 25, just months ahead of assembly elections due to take place in the state, the Pinarayi Vijayan-led government in the state handed over a probe into the case to the Central Bureau of Investigation.The decision triggered massive protests by the Opposition Congress, which called the move politically motivated.The party said it will deal with it legally and politically. The government also constituted a judicial commission to probe the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/solar-case-court-cancels-bails-of-two-key-accused-101613076584635.html
12-02-2021||India||SC notice on Union’s plea to club petitions against OTT platforms from HCs||The Supreme Court has issued a notice on a transfer petition moved by the Centre to club all petitions filed in various high courts for regulating over the top platforms including Netflix and Amazon Prime.A bench of justices S Abdul Nazeer and Sanjiv Khanna on February 9 issued a notice on the transfer petition filed jointly by the Ministry of Information & Broadcasting, Electronics and Information Technology and the Ministry of Law and Justice. The notices were issued to all petitioners who have filed the petitions in the Punjab & Haryana HC, Madhya Pradesh HC and the Allahabad HC.At present, the government has identified 40 OTT platforms which live stream content.The bench has posted the matter for hearing on March 23 to be listed along with the pending public interest litigation filed by the non-profit Justice for All.Recently, the Supreme Court, denied interim protection from arrest to the makers of the web-series Taandav. The court was hearing complaints filed against them for airing content which allegedly hurt religious sentiments. It also allowed the producers, actors as well as Amazon Prime India – the series was aired on the service -- to approach the respective High Courts for protection.Last month, the top court also issued a notice on a petition by an Uttar Pradesh resident seeking ban on the web series Mirzapur 2, which was also aired on Amazon Prime. The complainant alleged that the series tarnished the historical and cultural image of the old city of Mirzapur while depicting characters as goons. The notices were issued to Amazon Prime and Excel Entertainment besides the Centre with the petition pleading for a pre-screening committee for programmes directly aired on OTT platforms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-notice-on-union-s-plea-to-club-petitions-against-ott-platforms-from-hcs-101613076328414.html
12-02-2021||India||Odisha files contempt against Andhra officials for “invading” its territory; SC to hear petition today||The Odisha government has approached the Supreme Court seeking contempt action against officials of the Andhra Pradesh government for notifying Panchayat polls in three villages controlled by it and allegedly violating a status quo ordered by the SC in 1968 on three villages claimed as their territory by the two states.The Naveen Patnaik government moved the Supreme Court on Wednesday, accusing Andhra Pradesh of “invading” into its territory.The elections were notified by the collector of Andhra Pradesh’s Vizianagaram Mude Hari Jawaharlal on March 5, 2020.“In the notification deliberately the contemnors roped in three villages from the ‘Kotia Group of villages’ falling under the territory of Koraput district of Odisha into Salur Mandal of Vizinagaram district (AP). Clandestinely the contemnors changed the name of the three villages of Kotia Gram Panchayat,” the Odisha government has alleged.“Tactfully the contemnors converted these three villages of one Gram Panchayat falling under territory of Odisha to three different Gram Panchayats. The three Gram Panchayat created by the contemnor were made part of Salur Mandal,” it said.The dispute over the territorial jurisdiction of 21 districts, popularly known as Kotia Group of villages, first reached the Supreme Court in 1968, when the Odisha government accused the Andhra Pradesh government of trespassing its territory.The Odisha government relied on three past notifications which were treated as “instruments” while filing the suit. During the pendency of suit filed by Odisha, the top court had on December 2, 1968 directed both the states to maintain status quo till the disposal of suit and said, “there shall be no further ingress or egress on the territories in dispute, on the part of either party”. The suit filed by Odisha under Article 131 of the Constitution was finally dismissed on technical ground by the top court on March 30, 2006, and with the consent of both the states it directed that status quo be maintained till the dispute is resolved.On Thursday, senior advocate Vikas Singh appearing for Odisha told before an SC bench, headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde, “There is a huge constitutional crisis as the state of Andhra Pradesh is acting in violation of the Supreme Court order by conducting an election in our territory. We are requesting for listing of the contempt petition.”“The said notification issued by contemnor 1 (Muda Hari Jawaharlal) in unison with contemnors 2 and 3 (Chief Secretary and SEC) is to invade into the territory of petitioner state at the cost of willful violation of this Court’s order… Administratively and otherwise, the state of Odisha has been in control of these villages throughout. However, of late, clandestinely the contemnors have entered into the impugned act of contempt by which this Court’s order has been violated,” the contempt petition said.Odisha government has said that the three villages falling in Koraput have been shown as part of Salur Panchayat mandal of Vizianagaram by changing their original names from Ganjaipader, Phattusenary, and Phagusenary to Ganjaibadra, Pattuchennuru and Phaguluchennuru, respectively.The bench has listed the matter before a bench headed by Justice AM Khanwilkar on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-says-andhra-invading-its-territory-seeks-contempt-action-101613075601403.html
12-02-2021||India||‘I will join the BJP when we have black snow in Kashmir’: Ghulam Nabi Azad||Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad, who will be ending his Rajya Sabha stint on Monday after a four-decade-long career in Parliament, spoke to Sunetra Choudhury and Saubhadra Chatterji about his farewell by the Prime Minister, speculation that he may join the BJP, about being a ‘Hindustani Muslim’, and the thinking behind the letter written by the ‘Group of 23’, among other issues.Edited excerpts:Your farewell grabbed the headlines. Can you tell us about your relationship with Prime Minister Narendra Modi?We know each other since the ’90s. We were both general secretaries, and we used to come on TV debates representing different views; we used to fight also in the debates. But, if we reached early, we used to share a cup of tea also and chit-chat. Later we knew each other as chief ministers, meeting at the Prime Minister’s meetings, home minister’s meetings. Then he was CM and I was health minister, and we would speak every 10-15 days on different issues.ALSO WATCH | 'Will join BJP when there's black snow in Kashmir': Congress' Ghulam Nabi Azad﻿Why we were both crying was not because we knew each other, but the reason was that, in 2006, a Gujarati tourist bus was attacked [in Kashmir], and I broke down while speaking to him. The PM was saying that here is a person who’s retiring who is also a good human being. He couldn’t complete the story because he broke down, and when I wanted to complete the story, I couldn’t because I felt I was back in that moment 14 years ago when the attack took place.Do you think this gesture of the Prime Minister will resonate with a wider audience of Jammu & Kashmir?I think this will not affect the issues of Jammu & Kashmir. The entire population is so concerned, not just about Article 370. Downgrading the state to a Union territory, which was not a BJP agenda, and the division of the state, have hurt everybody; we’ve been reduced to ashes. I’ve only seen upgradation of UTs into states, and my own state, which is among the largest and oldest states in the country, has been made a UT. Nobody can digest that.Shashi Tharoor described the PM’s crying that as an ‘artfully crafted performance’.I don’t know in which sense, and most of the people didn’t know the background. A lot of people thought the PM was doing it artificially, because why should he bother that a Congressman is going. As I said, the words he used were for me, but our emotion was in a different context.What do you make of the speculation that you may now join the BJP?I will join the BJP when we have black snow in Kashmir. Why BJP -- that’s the day I’ll join any other party. Those who say this or spread these rumours, they don’t know me. When Rajmata Scindia was the deputy leader of the Opposition, she stood up and said some allegation about me. I got up and I said that I take the allegation very seriously, and on behalf of the government, I would like to suggest a committee which would be chaired by [Atal Bihari] Vajpayee, and would have her and [LK] Advani as members. I said that they should complete the report in 15 days, and whatever punishment they suggest, I’ll accept it. Vajpayeeji came in as I mentioned him, and asked why. When I told him, he stood up and said -- I offer my apologies to the House, and also to Ghulam Nabi Azad. Maybe Rajmata Scindia doesn’t know him, but I do.What did your own party people say about the term ending?The party president had written a long letter appreciating my work all through, as general secretary, as LoP. She also said that we have to work together to strengthen the organisation, and after that I met her. She said we have to prepare for elections.Did you also meet Rahul?We met, we met. Once, twice.In the speech, you talked about being a ‘Hindustani Muslim’. Why did you bring this up -- recently you said that the number of invites that you get to campaign have reduced.I had said in AMU that the atmosphere in the country is so vitiated that contrary to the past where 99% of Hindu candidates would invite me to campaign for them to get the Muslim vote, the number of invitations has gone down to 40%. My message was also to the alumni who had gathered there, that it’s their job to be ambassadors, and to bring that India back -- the India where I contested in 1979 in the Lok Sabha from Maharashtra, where 95% where Hindus. There was a Janata Party Hindu candidate against me, but I still won.Do you think this is the same India? Could a young Muslim leader aspire to be PM?It’s very difficult. I don’t foresee it in near future, maybe a few decades.The PM referred to the conflicting strategies in the Congress -- joined the debate in Rajya Sabha but not in Lok Sabha. How do you look at it?I think the honourable Prime Minister was not fair by taking the Congress’s name. It was all political parties; they were all unanimous in having the discussion in RS. He should have used the word ‘Opposition’ and not Congress. There has to be a difference between LS and RS. The bills, if not referred to Standing Committee, can always be referred to Select Committee. Lok Sabha members have their constituency on their mind and may take hasty decisions; that’s why the House of Elders will coolly apply its mind, and do what’s good for their country.Can you share with us now how the ‘Group of 23’ started and came to write the letter to Sonia Gandhi?We have lost elections earlier -- we got only 153 seats in 1977; we lost again in Rajiv Gandhi’s time, getting only 197 seats, in Narasimha Rao’s time we got 140 seats. But losing twice and getting 44 or 52 seats and not even having a Leader of Opposition in the Lok Sabha was unacceptable to us. Some people feel very bad that we’ve fallen from the sky to even below the ground.We have come from the organisation, so our accessibility to people is much more than anybody. If people can’t meet someone, they come to us. They gave us a list of things that were going wrong, and needed to be corrected. Then we put it all together, and this is what we wanted the leadership to see. It was unfortunate that someone leaked it. That was not our purpose -- and I wouldn’t call it a leak as it’s not a state secret; it was how to strengthen the organisation.There’s a big para on Nehru, big para on Rajiv Gandhi, Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi. We didn’t have really a president at the time because the elected president had resigned. And the other president had said only one year and that year was going to end that month itself. That was the reason that we wanted a full-time president, we wanted elected bodies at each level, so that we could rise from the ashes. We wanted to strengthen the organisation and not challenge it.But critics point out that in Talkatora session you empowered the Congress president to nominate members to CWC and not elect?I supported Rahul Gandhi, but he resigned. We spent one hour convincing him, but he said no. So once he’s out, who’s there? We requested Mrs Gandhi, she said no. Then there was a break for one hour. Then we all got together and told her that you have to be there. Some said six months, some said four months -- we all decided one year. We had no president, the elected one had resigned. And so when we wrote the letter, there was no president and we were talking of a third person.Four months later, the process for AICC to choose candidate will start. Who is your preferred candidate?Let the bridge come.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/i-will-join-the-bjp-when-we-have-black-snow-in-kashmir-ghulam-nabi-azad-101613073669629.html
12-02-2021||India||‘Alliances may change but ideology will not’: EPS assures Muslim voters in TN||The AIADMK has been reassuring minority communities that their interests will be safeguarded since the party is in an alliance with the BJP which is known for its Hindutva approach.Chief minister Edapaddi Palaniswami on Thursday once again reiterated at a Muslim jamaat meeting in Tirupur district that an alliance is different from ideology and the people need not fear. “Alliances will change because they are formed for politics,” Palaniswami said wearing a skull cap. “But the party will never let go of ideology. Every party will have its own ideology. No one needs to fear that they will be affected because of our alliances. We will require your support for our governance to continue,” he said without taking BJP's name.AIADMK and BJP formalised their alliance for the assembly elections slated for April-May in Tamil Nadu. They joined hands ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. The ruling AIADMK government has supported the Centre’s legislations such as the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) and the abolition of Triple Talaq.Earlier, in January in Coimbatore, Palaniswami was seen in a skull cap addressing Muslims at an event. “We will never allow differences on religious lines,” he had said then. “There is some fear over the Centre's laws but minorities need not be afraid. Our government will protect you. We will not compromise on your rights under any circumstances. No one can intimidate anyone, born on this soil. Everyone has a right to live,” Palaniswami said. Throughout his campaign Palaniswami has repeated that minorities will be protected under his government.As part of the government’s outreach towards minorities when Palaniswami inspected flood-affected areas after Cyclone Nivar and Buveri in Cuddalore, Nagapattinam and Thiruvarur districts, he offered prayers at the Nagore Dargah and Vailankanni Church. The state in December increased the grant given to Christians for their pilgrimage to Jerusalem from the present ₹20,000 to ₹37,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/alliances-may-change-but-ideology-will-not-eps-assures-muslim-voters-in-tn-101613073224932.html
12-02-2021||India||Odisha moves SC, seeks contempt proceedings against Andhra over border row||Two days before the Andhra Pradesh government holds its panchayat polls in three bordering villages of Odisha's Koraput district, the Naveen Patnaik government has filed a contempt of court petition in the Supreme Court seeking action against the neighbouring state over its violation of the apex court order in 1968 and 2006.The Andhra Pradesh government which is conducting panchayat polls in three-phases is reported to have renamed three villages of Kotia gram panchayat in Koraput district of Odisha and included their names in the state's panchayat poll notification. Andhra is reported to have renamed Ganjaipadar into Ganjaibadra, Phattusenary into Pattuchennuru and Phagusenary into Phaguluchennuru, the three villages of Kotia in their notification for the panchayat polls scheduled to be held on November 13.Even as chief minister Naveen Patnaik last week announced developmental schemes worth ₹18 crore for the villages of Kotia gram panchayat, the state government moved the top court accusing the Andhra Pradesh government of committing contempt of court.In the contempt of court petition, the Odisha government said that the Supreme Court in 1968 had first ordered maintenance of status quo in the disputed area and in 2006 the apex court passed a permanent injunction on the disputed area. The matter was mentioned on Thursday by senior counsel Vikas Singh on behalf of Odisha, seeking urgent listing. The SC agreed and listed the matter for hearing on Friday.Citing Article 131 of the Constitution of India, the SC in 2006 said disputes over state boundaries were not within its jurisdiction and can only be resolved by the Parliament.In its contempt of court case, the Odisha government said those villages have been under the control of the Koraput district over the years. “The state has taken many development initiatives in the three villages and has built infrastructures like schools, police stations, roads, bridges etc. for the people of these villages.The villagers there have been getting benefits of social schemes under the National Food Security Act and State Food Security Act, MGNREGA, Old Age Pension and houses under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana. The Odisha government in its petition also said the 2011 census was conducted in villages of the Kotia panchayat including the three villages.The state government alleged that the Andhra government in March 2020 included those villages in a notification and kept it secret so that local officials of Koraput would not get to know about it. The petition filed through its advocate Sibo Sankar Mishra said the Andhra Pradesh government's move to hold elections in the 3 village areas will amount to contempt of court as it violated the status quo undertaking given to the Court.Odisha and Andhra Pradesh are locked in a territorial dispute over the Kotia gram panchayat since 1960. Though Kotia Gram Panchayat has 28 revenue villages, Odisha mistakenly did not survey 21 villages during its formation in 1936. At the time of creation of Andhra Pradesh in the year 1955, those 21 villages were also not surveyed by Andhra resulting in perpetual dispute over those bordering villages.On Monday, Andhra Pradesh Legislative Council chairman Mohammed Ahmed Shariff during his visit to Bhubaneswar had said the issue could be resolved through discussion between the two governments.“In India, any dispute between two states can be amicably settled through discussion. I will apprise the Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister on the concern expressed by the Odisha government,” Shariff told reporters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-moves-sc-seeks-contempt-proceedings-against-andhra-over-border-row-101613071430611.html
12-02-2021||India||Hathras case: Kerala scribe, PFI members charged under PMLA||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) said on Thursday it has charged office-bearers of the Popular Front of India (PFI) and its students’ wing -- Campus Front of India (CFI) -- for allegedly conspiring to incite violence and disturb harmony in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras, where a Dalit woman was allegedly gang-raped by four upper caste men last September. The 19-year-old died at a hospital in New Delhi.The charge sheet under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), filed against Atikur Rahman (national treasurer of CFI), Masud Ahmed (Delhi general secretary of CFI), Siddique Kappan (a Kerala-based journalist allegedly associated with PFI), Mohammad Alam (a CFI/PFI member) and KA Rauf Sherif (the national general secretary of CFI and a member of PFI), has been accepted by a special court in Lucknow. It is the first charge sheet under money laundering charges in connection with the case.ED, which probes financial crimes, said in a statement: “…probe has revealed that more than ₹100 crore have been deposited in the accounts of PFI over the years and a very large part of this money has been deposited in cash.”The statement added that illegal activities of PFI/CFI included funding protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA), fomenting trouble that led to Delhi riots in February 2020, and attempts to disturb harmony in Hathras. The agency said it is trying to ascertain the source of ₹100 crore deposited in the accounts of PFI over the years.Rahman, Ahmed, Kappan, and Alam were arrested at Mathura by the Uttar Pradesh Police on October 5 while they were on their way to Hathras, ED said.Probe revealed that they were visiting Hathras on the instructions of KA Rauf Sherif, who also provided funds to incite violence, according to the agency. Sherif was arrested on December 12 from Thiruvananthapuram airport when he was allegedly trying to flee from India.ED has been separately investigating PFI for the Delhi riots that occurred after months of protests against CAA, which fast-tracks Indian citizenship for non-Muslims from Afghanistan, Pakistan and Bangladesh.PFI has been collecting huge amounts from abroad through members/activists and these funds have been remitted to India through hawala/underground channels, ED said.PFI rejected what it called ED’s “false claims”. “Members/office bearers of other organizations are portrayed as Popular Front office bearers. This is not an innocent mistake at all. Instead of proving its case through transparent investigations, ED continues to drag the name of Popular Front into fabricated and politically motivated case like the imaginary instigation of caste violence at Hathras…,” Anis Ahmed, PFI general secretary, said in a statement.He alleged that ED “has zero credibility” and “has been pressurised by the BJP-led central government to defame” PFI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hathras-case-kerala-scribe-pfi-members-charged-under-pmla-101613069793558.html
12-02-2021||India||'Have to follow Indian law': Govt’s warning to Twitter||Social media companies will need to follow India’s laws or face strict action, minister for electronics and information technology Ravi Shankar Prasad said in Parliament on Thursday, while adding that the government is working on new rules to make companies such as Twitter and Facebook more responsive to directions and accountable to Indian laws.Prasad said the government was in the favour of freedom of speech and expression but warned that the abuse of social media platforms for harms such as fake news and election manipulation will not be tolerated.“We respect social media. We also respect criticism. But we will not tolerate the misuse of social media for fake news. Today, from here in Parliament, I politely remind the companies, whether it is Twitter, Facebook, LinkedIn or WhatsApp or anyone, they are free to work in India, do business, but they need to respect the Indian Constitution, they need to respect the Indian law,” he said.The minister also drew a comparison between the January 6 attack on the US Capitol and the January 26 violence at Red Fort, saying that “certain microblogging platforms” took action in the first case but dragged their feet during the incident in India. “This double standard will not work here,” he warned.The minister’s comments follow days of tensions between the government and Twitter over taking down more than 1,300 accounts or posts in connection with the farmers’ protest and the violence that occurred on January 26. The social media company only partially complied with the order, saying that the directions were not consistent with Indian law.“When a company becomes a platform, you make the rules to assess what is wrong and what is right. But that doesn’t mean that the laws of India will not apply to them,” Prasad said, after telling Parliament that his ministry and the information and broadcasting ministry were working on new guidelines.The government in reply to an unstarred question in Rajya Sabha also asserted that the rules under the IT Act, 2000, are in the process of being amended. “These Rules are being amended to make social media platforms more responsive and accountable to Indian laws. These Rules will also make digital media platforms to adhere to Code of Ethics.”According to officials familiar with the matter, the guidelines are likely to be finalised soon to ensure that social media platforms “take responsibility” and be held accountable for the content shared on them. As intermediaries, the companies are not liable to face action for posts made by users.“The current guidelines state that if the government asks the intermediary to take down posts, then they have to oblige,” said an official familiar with the matter, asking not to be named.“The new guidelines are likely to strengthen the procedures so companies can’t say they are an intermediary and escape responsibility,” the official added. “They can’t use the excuse that their permissions have to come from a centre in some other part of the world. Such delays aren’t acceptable.”The official added that ministry continuously works to update the rules and keep them in consonance with the times.Legal experts said the row between Twitter and the government is more a question of rule of law than a free speech issue. “We have a Constitutional right to free speech but there are also restrictions that can be laid down under Article 19(2). Section 69(A) of the IT Act gives the government the right to block such content and rules have been formed. Whether that is for right or wrong is a different matter but the government has the legal power to do it,” said NS Nappinai, advocate, Supreme Court, and founder of Cyber Saathi.“There is no option for a company, either under the law or under the rules, to not comply with the order. In this case, Twitter had to either comply or contest the directions in a court of law,” she said, adding that the company’s actions opens it up to criminal prosecution.The intermediary guidelines, initially floated in 2018, is expected to introduce a slew of changes, including allowing government to trace unlawful content, proactively identifying and removing or disabling public access to unlawful information or content, and making it mandatory for any intermediary with more than five million users in India to be an entity to mandatorily be a company incorporated in India.“Rule 3(2) prohibits intermediaries from knowingly hosting or publishing information which amongst other things may be ‘grossly harmful, harassing, blasphemous, defamatory, obscene, pornographic, paedophilic, libellous, invasive of another’s privacy, hateful, or racially, ethnically objectionable, disparaging, relating or encouraging money laundering or gambling, or otherwise unlawful in any manner whatever’,” the draft guidelines hosted on Meity’s website state.Social media companies such as Twitter and Facebook function as media companies, essentially making money off ads, but refusing to take accountability for content. But legal experts have said that the nature of the laws give the government broad powers and there is little transparency around online content take downs, which leaves room for various interpretation.Apar Gupta, Internet Freedom Foundation trustee, said that the government held public consultations on the draft guidelines. “The changes, if any have been made, are not known,” Gupta said. “This also comes on the heels of a case pending before the Supreme Court. The draft, if implemented in its current form, will result in an attack on freedom of expression. Automated take downs, say for a filter of illegality, will omit the context of the post and result in a larger take down of content. This will harm free expression and conversation on social media.”Disclosures from Twitter to the Lumen database also showed that one of the accounts the company blocked on the government’s request was that of Rajya Sabha member Sukhram Singh Yadav, deepening questions over the government’s prerogative as well as Twitter’s conduct, which previously said that it had not taken action against accounts of journalists, activists and politicians.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/have-to-follow-indian-law-govt-s-warning-to-twitter-101613068057143.html
12-02-2021||India||Present dangers cannot be ignored, says Army chief||Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane on Thursday said that while the Indian Army is preparing for future conflicts, the “real and present dangers” on the country’s borders cannot be ignored. His comments came on the day defence minister Rajnath Singh told Parliament that the Indian and Chinese armies were implementing a disengagement plan on the north and south banks of Pangong Tso to reduce military tensions in eastern Ladakh.“Ongoing developments along our northern borders should cause us to ponder over …the nature of our unsettled borders and consequent challenges with regard to the preservation of our territorial integrity and sovereignty. Without doubt there are newer threats on the horizon, but the hard reality is that the legacy challenges have not quite gone away,” Naravane said in his inaugural address at a seminar on Multi-Domain Operations: Future of Conflicts, organised by the Centre for Land Warfare Studies.Naravane said the challenges have only grown in scale and intensity.Talking about multi-domain operations, the army chief said India needed to address the challenges posed by adversaries in stand-off deterrence. “We need to develop capacities to strengthen our own anti-access prowess as also develop proficiencies to overcome the anti-access capacities of the adversary to strengthen our defensive framework as also to add punch to our offensive poise.”While stand-off deterrence refers to the capability to strike the enemy from far-off ranges, anti-access capacities are aimed at hindering the movement of the adversary in a theatre of operations.He said platforms such as tanks, fighter jets and surface combatants, which were once the mainstay of 20th century battlefield, were rendered relatively less significant in the face of emerging battlefield challenges in newer domains.“We have seen how the very imaginative and offensive use of drones in Idlib and then in Armenia-Azerbaijan challenged the traditional prima donnas: the tanks, the artillery and the dug-in infantry,” the army chief said. In Syria’s Idlib, Turkish forces had successfully used drones to carry out attacks against Syrian tanks, air defence systems and other assets. Also, Azerbaijan made extensive use of Kamikaze drones to target and inflict losses on Armenian forces in a conflict last year. “We have also seen how disruptive technologies are now driving doctrinal cycles like never before. It may not be inaccurate to infer that technology itself is steadily emerging as a core combat capability,” the army chief said.The concept these days is minimising direct contact warfare, said former Northern Army commander Lieutenant General BS Jaswal (retd).“But you cannot dispense with infantry in a ground-holding capturing role. Also, artillery with its inherent capability of switching the arc of engagement with precision is going to assume importance. As far as armoured thrust goes, it is likely to suffer prohibitive casualties in multi-domain operations,” Jaswal added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/present-dangers-cannot-be-ignored-says-army-chief-101613067439290.html
12-02-2021||India||Experts flag privacy concerns as Koo records surge in downloads||Social media website Koo recorded a massive surge in user base, but cyber security researchers flagged potential privacy risks for users, triggering a war of words with its developers.The controversy began when a French cyber security research, who uses the nom de guerre of Elliot Alderson, tweeted redacted screenshots showing it was possible to access users’ e-mail, date of birth, name, marital status and gender – set of data that is known as personally identifiable information (PII).“I spent 30 min on this new Koo app. The app is leaking of the personal data of users: email, dob, name, marital status, gender...” Alderson said in a tweet. To this, Aprameya R, co-founder and CEO, said: “The data visible is something that the user has voluntarily shown on their profile of Koo. It cannot be termed a data leak. If you visit a user profile you can see it anyway”.Alderson denied this was the case and attached profile screenshots that did not appear to publicly show the information the Koo executive alluded to.“We’re attempting to do something for our country, India. All help is appreciated. If you want to help out in this journey of ours please write to me on ar@kooapp.com and we can take a look at all the feedback you have. Thanks!”, Aprameya responded.Privacy experts say PII data can be used in crimes such as identity theft and using it to bypass banking security verification processes to carry out financial fraud.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/experts-flag-privacy-concerns-as-koo-records-surge-in-downloads-101613067198885.html
12-02-2021||India||To tackle low participation, House panel attendance bar may be lowered||With Parliamentary standing committee meetings frequently plagued by low attendance, the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha authorities are set to reduce the quorum, or the bar for minimum attendance in these meetings.From the current requirement of a minimum attendance of one-third members, the committees will be allowed to function with just one-fourth members in attendance, two senior MPs said on condition of anonymity.The General Purpose Committee (GPC) of the Lok Sabha met on Thursday to discuss issues before the House panels. “We deliberated on many options. One leader even suggested that if the chairman alone is present, the meeting of the panel can continue. But finally, the Lok Sabha Speaker and others favoured that the bar for quorum will be reduced to one-fourth strength of the panel,” said an Opposition MP on condition of anonymity.Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla, who chaired the meeting, observed that while ministry officials come in large numbers and fully prepared to depose before a House, often meetings get deferred due to want of quorum. Many other GPC members shared the same view. “It’s a colossal waste of time,” said another Opposition MP.Many MPs have stayed away from coming to Delhi to attend House panel meetings after the Covid-19 pandemic. Some Opposition MPs had demanded online meetings of the standing committees but both Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu and Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla are yet to accept the proposals.While MPs can claim daily allowance for attending the committee meetings, there is some restrictions imposed in air fare reimbursements they can claim.Parliament has 24 department related standing panels, out of which 16 belong to the Lok Sabha and the remaining come under the purview of the Upper House.During the performance review of the panels for the fiscal year 2019-20, Birla had sought a report on the attendance of MPs in panel meetings. According to an official, Birla is also open to shifting MPs with low attendance to other panels to maximise their contribution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/to-tackle-low-participation-house-panel-attendance-bar-may-be-lowered-101613067138689.html
12-02-2021||India||BJP govt honours critics too, says PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday said the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) does not believe in political untouchability , stressing that his government has honoured even its critics for their role in nation-building.He also underlined the need for consensus in polity and said the country is run on consensus even as numbers are needed to form government. “Politics for us is the means to achieve a national policy. As I said before, the government may run with majority but nations are run with consensus,” he said.Addressing BJP MPs on the occasion of 53rd death anniversary of party ideologue Deen Dayal Upadhyaya, the PM said: “The idea of political untouchability is not in our culture. The country has rejected this idea. In our party, importance is given to the worker even as we reject dynasty.”He said even critics of the BJP (such as former President and Congressman Pranab Mukherjee, former Assam chief minister Tarun Gogoi and former Nagaland chief minister SC Jamir) were honoured by the government for their contribution to nation-building.While Mukherjee was honoured with the Bharat Ratna (India’s the highest civilian award), Gogoi and Jamir received the Padma Bhushan (the third highest civilian) in the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) rule.“They were neither part of the BJP nor even allies of the party. But it was our duty to honour their contributions,” he said.Addressing the MPs, the Prime Minister said differences with political opponents should not come in the way of extending courtesy and respect for each other.Earlier this week, the PM gave an emotional farewell speech in the Rajya Sabha, bidding farewell to the leader of the opposition, Ghulam Nabi Azad.He said the BJP has imbibed the ideals of Mahatma Gandhi that teach lessons of love and compassion.BJP president JP Nadda said the empowerment of the women, economically weaker sections and farmers are at the core of governments’ policies. He said the new health policy and the new education policy were aimed at ensuring the development of every community in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-govt-honours-critics-too-says-pm-101613067139200.html
12-02-2021||India||CAA to be enforced after vaccination drive: Amit Shah||The Centre will enforce the Citizenship Amendment Act, or CAA, after the drive for vaccination against the coronavirus disease gets over in the country, Union home minister Amit Shah said in West Bengal on Thursday, reaching out to an influential refugee community that is credited with helping his Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) put up an impressive showing in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections.On a daylong visit to the state, which is headed for assembly elections this summer, Shah sharpened his attack on chief minister Mamata Banerjee, said she would start chanting the “Jai Shri Ram” slogan by the time polls were over, accused her of misleading people on CAA, dismissed criticism that the legislation was meant to target Muslims, and assured the Dalit Matua community of his government’s commitment to implementing the law that fast-tracks citizenship of Hindus, Sikhs, Jains, Buddhists, Christians and Parsis who have arrived in India from Pakistan, Afghanistan and Bangladesh before 2015.“We promised in 2019 that we will amend the citizenship law and asked the Matua community to support us in the Lok Sabha polls. They did not fail us. We kept our word and passed the law (in December 2019), but the country was hit by the pandemic. Mamata Banerjee campaigned that we were making false promises. She said she will stop the law from being enforced in Bengal. Today, I promise that the law will be enforced once vaccination is done and corona is gone,” Shah said at a rally at Thakurnagar in North 24-Parganas district.Thakurnagar is part of the Bongaon Lok Sabha seat that the BJP won in 2019 by fielding Matua leader Shantanu Thakur against his aunt and then incumbent Mamata Bala Thakur, who was a candidate of the state’s ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC). In all, the BJP won 18 of the state’s 42 seats. Now, it aims to overthrow the TMC government by winning over 200 of the state’s 294 assembly seats in the elections due in April-May.Originally from East Pakistan, Matuas, who are Hindus, came to India during the Partition and after the creation of Bangladesh in 1971. Analysts say the Dalit Namasudra community, with an estimated population of three million, can influence poll results in around 80 assembly seats. The Matuas are a part of this community. Shah’s message on CAA is seen an attempt to address an unease that has set in among a section of Matuas due to the delay in the implementation of the legislation.Shah said CM Banerjee will not be in a position to oppose CAA in future as she will lose her post after the polls. Critics of the law, including Banerjee, argue that CAA is discriminatory against Muslims and links citizenship to religion in a secular country.“I want to assure our Muslim brothers that they will not lose citizenship because of this law. The law does not take away citizenship rights. Not a single Muslim will be affected. The law has no such provision,” Shah said. “Once in power, we will free Bengal of all infiltrators in five years,” he added in the same breath.Banerjee hit back. Addressing a large number of non-governmental organisations (NGOs) and social welfare organisations in Kolkata, she said she will not allow CAA as well as the National Register of Citizens, an exercise against illegal citizens.“My backward class friends include not just the Matuas but people from all groups and sub-castes. I seek your support in this election. Please save Bengal. I do not make promises like the Centre. I deliver. Commitments are my credential. The BJP has stopped the funds of many NGOs that do not follow its policies. I promise to help you implement your programmes,” Banerjee said.Referring to Shah’s visit, she said: “All are welcome in Bengal. But things he said, the vulgar words he used…do not suit the home minister of a country. You can insult me but you cannot ignore me.”As sparks flew thick and fast and the political temperature soared, Shah, earlier in the day, branded Banerjee a “failed administrator”, stressing that the upcoming elections will be a contest between Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s “development model” and Banerjee’s “destruction model”.In the north Bengal town of Cooch Behar, Shah targeted Banerjee for objecting to the chanting of the “Jai Sri Ram” slogan at a January 23 government programme on freedom fighter Subhas Chandra Bose’s birth anniversary. Prime Minister Narendra Modi was present at the event in Kolkata.“Where else can you raise the Jai Sri Ram slogan? Will you do it in Pakistan? Mamata didi has problems with the slogan because she has to appease a particular community. I can assure you that by the time the polls are over, she will start chanting Jai Shri Ram,” said Shah, referring to Banerjee as didi, or elder sister.Flagging off the fourth of the five “Parivartan Yatras (Rally for Change)” planned by the BJP, he said the campaign was not for changing a CM, MLA or a minister, but “for ending infiltration…ending violence and building a Sonar Bangla (Golden Bengal)”.’And in Kolkata in the evening, Shah reiterated that the “war” was not just to remove Banerjee from power but to turn the state into “Sonar Bangla”.“We will not rest before forming the government in West Bengal with a two-thirds majority,” he said, addressing the “social media warriors” of the BJP.Shah touched upon the issue of poll-related violence in the politically charged state, where the BJP says 130 of its workers have been killed in recent months. “I guarantee you that nobody will be able to touch a single voter on the day of the election…Our cyber warriors have to spread the word. Only enthusiasm cannot win elections. You have to use intelligence,” he said.Kolkata-based political science professor and election analyst Udayan Bandopadhyay said Shah’s remarks on CAA clearly indicated that the Centre cannot enforce the law in immediate future.“Even if we talk of vaccinating half of India’s population, it will take years and nobody knows when the pandemic will end. Shah made it clear that the Centre is not in a position to enforce the law. Framing of rules is not as easy it may sound…,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/caa-to-be-enforced-after-vaccination-drive-shah-101613067078726.html
12-02-2021||India||Health minister dispels concerns after Chhattisgarh seeks to halt Covaxin supply||Union health minister Harsh Vardhan on Thursday dispelled concerns over Covaxin, India’s indigenous Covid-19 vaccine developed by Bharat Biotech and Indian Council of Medical Research, saying it was produced after “due evaluation of pre-clinical and clinical trial data” and is “safe and immunogenic” for use.The minister’s remarks came in response to a letter by the Chhattisgarh government who had asked the Centre to halt the supply of the vaccine to the state till its efficacy was proven. In his letter to Vardhan, Chhattisgarh health minister T S Singh Deo had also expressed concerns over the absence of expiry dates on the packages of the vials.“... this is to inform you that we have been supplied Covishield vaccine doses, numbering 588000 doses, using which we have initiated the vaccination in our state. It has been brought to my notice that covaxin too is getting delivered to our state shortly. As far as Covaxin vaccine is concerned there is an inhibition/concern among the community in general regarding the use of Covaxin,” the letter to the minister read.Click here for complete Covid-19 coverage“This concern arises from the fact that clinical trials of phase 3 is yet to be completed, and which brings forth a sense of hesitation regarding its use. Further, the vial of Covaxin does not display the expiry date. I would therefore request you, to kindly reconsider the decision to supply Covaxin to the state.... and only do so after the results of clinical trial, phase 3, is over and result is made available...,” it added.Responding to the state government’s claims, Vardhan wrote: “…as per new drugs and clinical trials rules…, and in light of urgent need due to Covid pandemic in the country… the National Regulator has granted permission to manufacture two Covid-19 vaccines based on the prescribed procedure and after due evaluation of pre-clinical and clinical trial data. Only those Covid-19 vaccines that have been granted permission for restricted use in emergency… Covishield and Covaxin are being used for Covid-19 vaccination drive… both these vaccines being supplied to the States/UTs are safe and immunogenic…”The response letter also denied the Chhattisgarh government’s claims that the package of the vials were without any expiry date. “…as the same is mentioned on the label of vaccine vials… While I note that Chhattisgarh has achieved 69.87% coverage of its health care workers by giving them the first dose of the vaccine, the state has been able to cover only 9.55% of its 2,09,512 frontline workers through the first dose of the vaccine. You would appreciate that this coverage needs to improve significantly since adequate quantity of both the vaccines are available with the state…,” the minister wrote.Besides Covaxin, Covishield produced by the Serum Institute of India and Oxford-AstraZeneca is also being used in the vaccination drive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/health-minister-dispels-concerns-after-chhattisgarh-seeks-to-halt-covaxin-supply-101613066658481.html
12-02-2021||India||Protector can’t adopt brutality: Supreme Court on custodial torture||Beating a person in a police station causes a sense of fear in society, is a matter of great public concern and such brutality on the part of the police cannot be condoned, the Supreme Court said on Thursday.The court was dealing with appeals filed by two retired policemen from Odisha who were convicted of torturing a man in custody, leading to his death. The offence was committed on May 4, 1985 and the Orissa high court on November 9, 2020 reduced the eight-year and five-year jail sentences awarded to the two to one year of simple imprisonment for the crime of causing hurt under section 324 of the Indian Penal Code.The policemen, Pravat Chandra Mohanty and Pratap Kumar Choudhury, now over 75 years of age, made an abortive last-ditch attempt in the Supreme Court to erase the criminal taint on them and instead offered to pay an additional compensation of ₹3.5 lakh each to the family of the person they were convicted of killing.The policement had deposited ₹3 lakh each in compensation for the person’s family on a direction passed by the high court. But this amount was found to be inadequate by the top court.A bench of justices Ashok Bhushan and Ajay Rastogi said: “The people look forward to the police to protect their life and property. People go to the police station with the hope that their person and property will be protected by the police and injustice and offence committed on them shall be redressed and the guilty be punished. When the protector of people and society himself instead of protecting the people adopts brutality and inhumanly beat the person who comes to the police station, it is a matter of great public concern.”The officers in question were the station in-charge and senior Inspector at Purighat police station. The bench noted that the beating of a person in the police station was a matter of concern and causes a “sense of fear in the entire society.“ Such offences, in the court’s view, should not be compounded on payment of compensation.“The present is a case where the accused who were police officers, one of them being in-charge of Station and other Senior Inspector have themselves brutally beaten the deceased, who died the same night. Their offences cannot be compounded by the Court in exercise of Section 320(2) read with subsection (5) of the Code of Criminal Procedure. We, thus, reject the prayer of the appellants to compound the offence.”The court accepted the offer of additional compensation offered by the convicted and directed the money to be distributed equally among their victim’s four sons or their legal heirs. Considering their old age, the bench reduced their punishment from one year’s imprisonment to six months.The two policemen were initially charged for graver offences of culpable homicide not amounting to murder (IPC Section 304) and wrongful confinement (IPC Section 342), among others. The trial court found them guilty on all charges and sentenced them to eight years and five years of imprisonment in August 1988. The high court took a lenient view and set aside their conviction under culpable homicide.Glancing through the prosecution records describing the crime committed by the accused policemen, the apex court said, “The custodial violence on the deceased which led to the death is abhorrent and not acceptable in the civilized society. The offence committed by the accused is crime not against the deceased alone but was against humanity and clear violations of rights guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution.”The compensation deposited by the accused before the top court was directed to be remitted to the trial court to be paid to the legal heirs of the deceased.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/protector-can-t-adopt-brutality-top-court-on-custodial-torture-101613066659027.html
12-02-2021||India||Election officials in Kashmir targeted by hackers: Experts||Election officials in Kashmir were hacked by a group that has also typically targeted people linked to India’s adversaries such as Pakistan, cyber security researchers said in a recent analysis after discovering malware and the data that was purportedly stolen from victims’ phones.The discovery was made by San Francisco-based Lookout, which found the evidence of the campaign sitting in unsecured “command and control” servers with 18GB of data. They have identified the hacking group with the codename Confucius and found two malware – Hornbill and SunBird – which was used to hack into the targets, who were lured into installing fake apps made to resemble real ones.“The titles, icons and functionality appear to be harmless or useful to a potential target, but in reality the applications are surveillanceware and send the target’s personal data to a malicious site that the attacker controls,” said by Apurva Kumar, security intelligence engineer at Lookout, in an exchange over email with HT.The purpose of the hacks was not clear. The researchers said data such as calls logs, SMS messages and WhatsApp conversations were stolen. The findings were made in an analysis published on Thursday and first reported by Bloomberg. The malware was delivered as fake apps disguised as security tools and popular regional chat and dating applications.The identities of the attackers were not known but based on digital clues, the researchers determined that the developers are possibly based in India. “In particular, links between the Hornbill developers indicate they all appear to have worked together at a number of Android and iOS app development companies registered and operating in or near Chandigarh, Punjab,” Kumar added.The targets of the group also included people associated with the Pakistan Atomic Energy Commission and individuals with numerous contacts in the Pakistan Air Force, but the researchers also found evidence that Indian election officials were hacked.“Evidence in the exfiltrated data shows one particular device located in the Pulwama district of Kashmir. In the list of publicly accessible exfiltrated SMS messages, the device received instructions via SMS on logistics for duties of a Booth Level Officer (BLO) in that district. This device also had information on call logs and contact details,” Kumar said.The spying on the election officials was carried out at least from late 2018 till early 2019, the data from the targets found on the servers suggested.Kumar described the sophistication of the group’s technical strategies as “medium”. “One characteristic of Hornbill and SunBird that stands out is their intense focus on exfiltrating a target’s communications via WhatsApp,” she said, adding that malware could also record calls made through WhatsApp and execute specified commands on an infected device.HT reached out to the Election Commission and the Ministry of Home Affairs but there was no immediate response on the report.The use of fake applications with names and icons similar to legitimate ones has been of concern. Indian security officials last year warned of similar attempts using fake Aarogya Setu versions. Experts at the time recommended that people should only install apps they know and download from the Google Play Store or Apple’s App Store.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/election-officials-in-kashmir-targeted-by-hackers-experts-101613066598479.html
12-02-2021||India||Uttarakhand disaster: Chamoli rescue ops briefly halted as water level rises||Rescue and search operations were briefly halted at NTPC’s Tapovan hydel project on Thursday afternoon after police in Uttarakhand issued an alert over rising water levels in the Alaknanda river and its tributary Dhauliganga, officials said.The operations resumed around 3pm, some 30 minutes later, but officials admitted that there was not much progress in clearing muck from a tunnel in the Tapovan project, where “25-35 workers” were feared trapped after Sunday’s deadly floods.“The water level in Dhauliganga increased by about one to one-and-a-half feet. The rescue operation was halted for over half an hour. It was resumed soon after the water revel receded,” Uttarakhand director general of police (DGP) Ashok Kumar said.Rescuers have retrieved 35 bodies since tragedy struck Chamoli district on Sunday morning, when a glacier breach sent a torrent of water and sludge hurtling down a valley into the Rishiganga river (it becomes Alaknanda in Chamoli city). At least 169 people have been missing since the subsequent flooding that hit villages on the way, damaged two power plants (the Tapovan project and the Rishiganga hydel project), and prompted a section of experts to link the event to climate change.On Thursday morning, rescue agencies used underwater sonar system to locate what they feared could be bodies in the muddy waters downstream, especially in Srinagar dam, which is around 60km from the Rishiganga dam site, officials said. Rescuers believe several bodies have been washed away downstream and could have reached as far as the Srinagar dam.Rescuers also drilled a hole vertically on the floor of a tunnel in the Tapovan dam project, about 6km downstream from the Rishiganga plant, to send a camera down in order to know the status of another underground tunnel, which is nearly 11 metres below, officials said. Authorities fear “25-35 workers” are trapped there.“We have been trying to put a camera into that tunnel through a hole since Thursday morning. But it is taking time,” a senior official involved in the rescue operation, who did not want to be named, said.DGP Kumar said officials were able to clear muck till 100 metres inside the main tunnel, which is about 1.7 kilometres long. “…beyond that, the heavy muck covers the area again as a soon as we remove some from it,” he said.State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) commandant Navneet Bhullar said heavy boulders and muck brought by the torrent were making the rescue work difficult. “We are using many tactics, such as drones for laser scanning of the tunnel to know the amount of muck inside and trace the location of the workers. We are also taking the help of the dog squad even as the digging work progresses,” he said.“SDRF has two drones, which are being used for geo-mapping of the Tapovan dam tunnel. NDRF (National Disaster Response Force) has also brought some high-endurance drones, which are also being used. We are using all possible means: drones, dog squad, binoculars in the search operation,” he said.About a 100 SDRF personnel, 178 NDRF personnel, 425 Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP), a team of the Seema Suraksha Bal, 124 army personnel, 16 firemen, 20 revenue officials, and six medical teams are carrying out the rescue and relief operations in the affected areas of Chamoli.SDRF spokesperson Praveen Alok said one more body was recovered downstream (at Galnav near Karanprayag) on Thursday, taking the death toll in the tragedy to 35. “Ten bodies have been identified so far, while efforts are on to identify the rest of the 25 bodies,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chamoli-rescue-ops-briefly-halted-as-water-level-rises-101613066478538.html
12-02-2021||NA||Highlights | Rajya Sabha sitting cancelled for February 13||Thursday marked the 10th day of the ongoing budget session, which had started on January 29. Defence minister Rajnath Singh issued statements in Rajya Sabha and Lok Sabha regarding the present situation in Eastern Ladakh.In Rajya Sabha, Singh said that India and China had reached an agreement for disengagement at southern and northern banks of Pangong Tso Lake adding that both sides would remove forward deployments in a phased manner.In the Lower House, the defence minister lauded the Indian armed forces for their valour and courage. “ Our armed forces responded to challenges by unilateral Chinese action and have shown valour and courage on both south and north bank of Pangong Tso,” he added. Both countries have been engaged in a stand-off along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) since last year.As the discussion in Lok Sabha shifted to the ongoing farmers’ protest against the Centre’s three new farm laws, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi targeted the government and went on to describe the content and intent of the farm laws.“Yesterday while addressing the House, the PM said that the Opposition is talking about the agitation but not about the content and intent of the farm maws. I thought I should make him happy today and speak on the content and intent of the laws,” the Congress leader said in the Lok Sabha.Gandhi further alleged that the Centre never paid tributes to the farmers’ who lost their lives during the protest and observe a 2 minute silence in the House to condole their deaths.Follow all the updates here:Rajya Sabha sitting cancelled for February 13An official order from the Rajya Sabha secretariat stated that that the sitting in the Upper House for Saturday has been cancelled.Budget aims towards making India self-reliant: Smriti IraniUnion minister Smriti Irani said on Thursday that the Union budget was aimed towards making India self reliant.India among nations with lowest Covid death rate: MoS ThakurMinister of state of finance Anurag Thakur said on Thursday that India was among those countries which had the lowest death rates due to the ongoing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. He added that this was possibleafter the citizens followed Prime Minister Narendra Modi's three steps to fight the infection- wearing masks, washing hands and maintaining social distancing.This Budget shows a hope to build new India: MoS ThakurThis Budget shows a hope - a hope to build new India, a hope for stronger India, a hope to build Aatmanirbhar Bharat. I would like to thank the Finance Minister because this is going to set the path to make India an economic & manufacturing powerhouse: MoS Finance Anurag Thakur pic.twitter.com/2btZ9Gff2JCentre never paid tributes to the protesting farmers who diedGandhi said that the BJP led-central government never paid tributes to the protesting farmers who had lost their lives during the agitation. He said that he would observe a 2 minute silence for the deceased protesters.Centre will have to take back the farm laws, says Rahul GandhiFurther sharpening his attack on the Centre, Rahul Gandhi said that the government will have to take back the farm laws adding that the country's farmers, labourers and small shopkeepers would not back down.Content of second farm law is to end Essential Commodities Act: GandhiThe content of the second law is that big businessmen can store as much food grains, fruits & vegetables as they want. They can hoard as much as they want. Content of the second law is to end the Essential Commodities Act. It is, to start unlimited hoarding in India: Rahul GandhiGandhi said that the content of the second farm laws was to end the Essential Commodities Act and to further start unlimited hoarding in the country.Content of first farm law is to finish Mandis, says Rahul Gandhi in Lok SabhaDescribing the content of the Centre's first new farm laws, Congress leader said on Thursday that the first farm law was aimed towards finishing the Mandis. "The content of the first law is that one can have unlimited purchase of foodgrains, fruits & vegetables anywhere in the country. If the purchase is unlimited anywhere in the country, then who would go to Mandis?" he added.Rahul Gandhi in Lok Sabha, says will speak on the content, intent of farm lawsYesterday while addressing the House, PM said that the Opposition is talking about the agitation but not about the content and intent of Farm Laws. I thought I should make him happy today and speak on the content and intent of the laws: Congress MP Rahul Gandhi in Lok Sabha pic.twitter.com/P0WeB0W5G1Beginning his address in the Lower House of Parliament, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said on Thursday that he would speak on the content and intent of the farm laws. His comments come after Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Wednesday that the Congress Party only made noise about these laws but never discussed its content or intent.Disengagement along LAC will be done in phased manner: Defence minister Rajnath SinghThe agreement that we have been able to reach with the Chinese side for disengagement in Pangong lake area envisages that both sides will cease their forward deployments in a phased, coordinated and verified manner: Defence Minister Rajnath Singh in Lok Sabha pic.twitter.com/FHBySvSiJCUnion defence minister Rajnath Singh stated that the disengagement along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) would be done in a phased, coordinated and verified manner.Our forces responded to challenges by unilateral Chinese action: Rajnath Singh in Lok SabhaOur Armed Forces responded to challenges by unilateral Chinese action & have shown valour & courage on both South & North bank of Pangong Tso. Many strategic points were identified & our troops positioned themselves at locations very important from our point of view: Defence Min pic.twitter.com/KsRfZ4KgCyDefence minister Singh also said that the Indian armed forces responded to the challenges which were posed by by unilateral Chinese action and showed valour on both South and North bank of Pangong Tso.Since Sept last year, both India and China have maintained communication with each other: Rajnath SinghUnion defence minister Rajnath Singh said on Thursday that both India and China maintained communication with each other through military and diplomatic channels since September last year. "Our objective was to effect disengagement & maintain status quo along the LAC so as to restore peace and tranquility," he addedDefence minister Rajnath Singh speaks on Ladakh situation in Lok SabhaUnion defence minister Rajnath Singh is currently addressing the Lower House of Parliament on the present situation in Eastern Ladakh. Govt has no details about arsenic pollution in Bengal: CongCongress MP Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said on Thursday there there were no details available with the Centre regarding the arsenic pollution in the state of West Bengal. He added that there were over 2.5 crore people in Bengal that lived in areas affected by arsenic pollution.States notified about planning of Jal Jeevan Mission: Union ministerUnion minister of Jal Shakti Gajendra Singh Shekhawat said on Thursday that the chief secretaries of all states had been notified about the planning of Jal Jeevan Mission. Rajya Sabha adjourned till 9 am tomorrowThe Upper House of Parliament has been adjourned till 9 am tomorrow. Markets responded positively post Budget announcements: Anurag ThakurHitting back at the Congress party, Union minister of state for finance Anurag Thakur said on Thursday that markets responded positively post the presentation of the Union Budget. Budget failed to give confidence to the citizens: Cong MP K.C. VenugopalCongress MP K.C. Venugopal said on Thursday that the Indian citizens had great expectations from the Union Budget in order to revive their livelihoods, their businesses and the economy, but the budget failed to give confidence to the citizens.TDP MP demands CBI probe into desecration of temples in Andhra PradeshTelugu Desam Party (TDP) MP Kanakamedala Ravindra Kumar said on Thursday that 140 temples have been attacked in Andhra Pradesh post June 2019 and demanded a investigation by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) into this.Cong gives notice in LS on Bhima Koregaon case Congress MP K Suresh gives adjournment motion notice in Lok Sabha over 'alleged tampering of digital evidence of an accused in Bhima Koregaon case.'BSP MP gives notice in LS over India's vaccine rollout plan BSP MP Ritesh Pandey gives adjournment motion notice in Lok Sabha demanding discussion related to India’s Covid-19 vaccine rollout plan.FM Sitharaman's reply on Budget discussion tomorrowFinance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman will on Friday reply to discussion on the Union Budget in the Rajya Sabha.Rajnath Singh to speak in Lok Sabha at 5:30pmRaksha Mantri Shri @rajnathsingh will make statement on ‘Present Situation in Eastern Ladakh’ in Lok Sabha at 5.00 PM today.Defence Minister Rajnath Singh will address Lok Sabha at 5:30pm on the current situation in eastern Ladakh, tweets his office.First half of Budget session in Rajya Sabha to end tomorrowBusiness Advisory Committee has decided that the first half of the Budget session of Rajya Sabha will conclude tomorrow.Country stands united on national security, says defence ministerNo matter which party you belong to, the country stands united when it comes to national security: Defence Minister Rajnath SinghChina to pullback to east of F8, India to near F3: Rajnath SinghChina's People's Liberation Army (PLA) troops to pullback to east of Finger 8, while Indian troops to near Finger 3. Military commanders to meet within 48 hrs of full Disengagement in Pangong area: Rajnath SinghComplete disengagement to be done at earliest, says Singh"We've begun talks over north-south bank of Pangong Lake Some issues over deployment at LAC are yet to be resolved, Both sides agreed that complete disengagement to be done at the earliest," says Rajnath Singh.India-China to disengage in a phased manner: Rajnath SinghIndia-China will remove forward deployments in a phased, coordinated manner. Many fraction areas are built near LAC in Eastern Ladakh. China has collected heavy force and arms and ammunition near LAC and in the nearby area on their side. Our forces have also adequate and effectively done counter deployment: Rajnath SinghDisengagement plan on southern banks of Pangong Tso finalised: Rajnath SinghDisengagement plan on southern banks of Pangong Tso finalised, says Rajnath Singh on Ladakh row with China.Security forces ready for any challenge, says Rajnath Singh"Our security forces have proved that they are ready to face any challenge to protect the sovereignty of the country," says Rajnath Singh.Committed to maintaining peaceful situation, says SinghWe are committed to maintaining a peaceful situation at the Line of Actual Control (LAC). India has always emphasised on maintaining bilateral ties: Defence Minister Rajnath SinghIndia has never accepted Chinese claims on parts of Indian territory: Rajnath SinghChina has repeatedly made claims on various parts of Indian territory. This has never been acceptable to us: Defence Minister Rajnath Singh in Rajya SabhaAction will be taken if social media misused for violence: IT minister RS PrasadWe respect social media a lot, it has empowered common people. Social media has a big role in Digital India programme. However, if social media is misused to spread fake news, violence then action will be taken: Union IT minister Ravi Shankar Prasad in Rajya SabhaRajnath Singh arrives in Parliament#WATCH | Delhi: Defence Minister Rajnath Singh arrives at the Parliament.He will make a statement on ‘present situation in Eastern Ladakh’ in Rajya Sabha at 10:30 am today. pic.twitter.com/hyXn9iyD0wDefence Minister Rajnath Singh arrives at the Parliament, where he will speak in the Rajya Sabha at 10:30am.BJP MP gives notice over 'Gondi' languageBJP MP Sampatiya Uikey has given Zero hour notice in Rajya Sabha demanding 'inclusion of 'Gondi' language in Eighth Schedule.'BJP MP gives notice over probe ordered against Sachin, LataBJP MP Bhagwat Karad has given Zero hour Notice in Rajya Sabha expressing 'concern over investigation ordered by Maharashtra Govt against Sachin Tendulkar and Lata Mangeshkar.'Rajnath Singh to speak in Rajya Sabha on current situation in LadakhDefence Minister Rajnath Singh will make a statement in the Rajya Sabha at 10:30am on the current situation in eastern Ladakh, where India and China have been engaged in a face-off since May 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-budget-session-live-updates-february-11-2021-101613012020972.html
12-02-2021||NA||Farmers' protest highlights: RLD leader Jayant Chaudhary booked for attending farmers’ meet in Aligarh||The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), the platform of farm unions spearheading the protests, held its full working committee meeting on Wednesday, in which the leaders discussed plans to scale up their campaign. SKM announced a four-hour blockade of trains across the country on February 18. “A rail roko programme will be held on February 18 from 12-4 pm across the country,” said Darshan Pal, president of the Krantikari Kisan Union. On February 14, a candlelight and torch march shall be undertaken across the country to remember the sacrifice of the martyred soldiers in the Pulwama attack and on February 16, the farmers will hold events in a show of solidarity on the birth anniversary of Chhotu Ram, a prominent pre-partition farmer leader.Prime Minister Narendra Modi while replying to the motion of thanks of President Ram Nath Kovind's address in Lok Sabha on Wednesday, said that the farm laws are pertinent for the country and the uproar against the farm laws is part of Congress' well-thought-out strategy. "Three farm laws were brought in by government, these agricultural reforms are important and necessary. Congress MPs in House debated on colour of the laws (black/white), it would have been better if they had debated on the content and intent of the laws," PM Modi said.Follow all the updates here:Aligarh farmers' meeting: RLD leader Jayant Chaudhary, 5000 others bookedThe Uttar Pradesh Police has booked RLD leader Jayant Chaudhary and over 5000 others who attended a major farmers' meeting in Aligarh district two days ago under the Epidemic Diseases Act for allegedly violating Covid-19 protocols. Read moreListening to farmers need of the hour, unfortunate PM didn't speak of 150 dead farmers: Harsimrat Kaur BadalPunjab MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal says that listening to the wants of the farmers is the need of the hours. She also said it is unfortunate that PM Modi didn't speak anything about the 150 farmers who died during the protests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-live-live-updates-hindustan-times-101613009430506.html
12-02-2021||Today's||The monetisation and dramatisation of TN’s politics||Crackers exploded, drums gonged and bugles sounded en route as VK Sasikala, just released from prison, moved in a slow convoy from Bengaluru to Chennai on February 8. Thousands, showering flowers on her, entreated her to return to politics. And she said yes, she would. Who would say no, with that kind of euphoria around?I asked Professor AR Venkatachalapathy, perceptive scholar of the history of modern Tamil Nadu, of the Dravidian movement and, in particular, of the political philosophy of Periyar EV Ramasami, what he made of all this. “When Gandhi, Nehru, Patel were released from jail,” he said, “they did not receive the kind of euphoric welcome that has greeted her.” He was right. Not counting telescoping sentences awarded to him, Gandhi did a total of 16 jail terms in South Africa and India put together, Nehru nine terms, and Patel, five. None of them were greeted with anything like this when they stepped out of jail.In Tamil Nadu, Periyar was jailed seven times before India’s Independence, and more than twice as many times after Independence. And all 24 times for reasons of principles, policy, programmes. “Siraikkanjaa Singham” — the lion who fears no cage — is how he has been described. But nothing like the mass, ecstatic fanfare that has greeted the confidante of the late J Jayalalithaa on her release welcomed Periyar when he walked out of jail all those times.So, was that Tamil Nadu a different universe? It would definitely seem so. What is the difference?Politics then was short on money, high on mind. It was short on time, high on work. It could neither afford the expense nor the time for anything that was not strictly necessary, anything like celebrating releases from prison. Things are not so now. Money is short in the country, but not in the country’s politics. Casteism is looked down upon in classrooms, but it looks up in party strategy-rooms. Leaders, then, had followers; today, they have fans. Followers follow, fans whirr.Tamil Nadu’s politics in the pre-Independence era, and until the mid-1960s, was a map of ideological spaces where nationalist sentiment and Tamil fervour asserted their respective visions, and leaders cheerfully went to prison, wrote, spoke, and strove with limited resources but unlimited ideas. Tamil Nadu’s politics today is a jigsaw of stardoms, castedoms, cashdoms with limited ideas and unlimited resources.This, of course, is a generalisation and, like all generalisations, must be subject to the citing of great exceptions. And, so, I must say that the Dravidian canoe rowed by Asiryar K Veeramani, Left, Dalit and secular groups in the state struggle for their ideals against heavy odds. As do non-governmental organisations engaged in matters of public interest. And independent writers in Tamil of great integrity, courage and skill, tilting against the blades of commercialism and populism. And there is Kamal Haasan.But, by and large, the state has become a high-decibel, hyper-tensed terrain where mobilisation of numbers upon numbers is the name of the game, with ethnicity playing its part. If White supremacy can be shamelessly promoted by Trumpism in the United States, can sectarian dynamics remain dormant in Tamil Nadu, in India? Money plus numbers spell spectacle. And so it is into such a spectacle-dazzled Tamil Nadu that “Chinnamma”, as Sasikala is called by her supporters, has returned, spectacularly, hailed by her supporters as signalling a galvanic change. Does her return indeed signal that? Can she lead her faction of the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) to victory in the elections due to take place in May? Three months in politics are an aeon and could witness realignments, unforeseen developments. But whatever the spectacle surrounding her return does or does not do to her fortunes, or to those of the AIADMK or the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, it is doubtless going to intensify money and community-based mobilisation in Tamil Nadu’s politics.But politics holds surprises. And spectacular politics can hold spectacular surprises. Like this: The monetisation and dramatisation of politics in Tamil Nadu may well clear the way for the financially strongest player with the greatest sense of “visuals” around — Hindutva.Hindutva in Tamil Nadu? Sounds incredible. But then who would have imagined West Bengal in 2021 could be witnessing a win-or-lose struggle between the Trinamool Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)? Not in the coming election perhaps but in the next to next, the choice in the state may well be between a splintered Dravidian movement and a resurgent Hindutva locked in a spectacle of all spectacles. Will then “Siraikkanjaa Singham” Periyar’s Dravidian vision of a casteless, gender-just, rational Tamil Nadu, the old Rajaji-Kamaraj-style Congress of financial probity and service-before-self, and Tamil Nadu’s “never-say-die” Left get re-energised to appeal to the great and discerning Tamil people whose services Gandhi described in his South African struggle as being “unequalled”? They might just, with Dalit leader Thol Thiruvamavalavan and his Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi providing them, perhaps, with a new energy.Gopalkrishna Gandhi is a former administrator, diplomat and governor The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-monetisation-and-dramatisation-of-tn-s-politics-101613141975149.html
12-02-2021||Today's||Woo second-generation Indian-Americans||Undeterred by weather or wallet, they do their bit — hold up placards, shout slogans, lobby lawmakers, and, involuntarily, prefix “our” to references of Indian prime ministers.They still do their bit, but not as often as they did once. Their children? Even less. “The diaspora that the Indian government has come to know is not static,” says a new report based on a 2020 survey of Indian-Americans. Indian-descent Americans born and raised in the United States (US) “exhibit different sensibilities both with respect to politics in India as well as politics closer to home”. They are also “less engaged with India and more US-focused than their parents’ generation”.This aspect of the report — “How Indian Americans view India? Results from the 2020 Indian American Attitudes Survey”, authored by Devesh Kapur, Milan Vaishnav and Sumitra Badrinathan — merits more attention. Second-generation Indian-Americans tend to be more American than Indian, as compared to their parents, and are, therefore, less indulgent and forgiving of India.Just a little over a third of those born in the US — 36% — said they felt extremely or well-connected to India, compared to the nearly six out of 10 — 59% — of foreign-born naturalised Indian-Americans who felt the same way. Twenty-five per cent of US-born Indian-Americans said they felt not too, or not at all, connected, compared to just 15% naturalised Indian-Americans.US-born Indian-Americans are not only less connected to India, they are also more likely to identify themselves as liberal — 55% to 41%. They tend to be more concerned about human rights, democratic values and rights of minorities, issues that have tested every government in India, of one party more than the others.Indian-Americans matter. They lobbied the US Congress and the White House to lift sanctions slapped by President Bill Clinton in response to the 1998 Pokhran-II nuclear tests, which were eventually removed by President George W Bush. They rallied — partly mobilised by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who was then a rising Bharatiya Janata Party leader, and Sushma Swaraj — to pressure Congress and the administration to punish Pakistan for the Kargil intrusion in 1999. And they helped facilitate the 2008 passage of the India-US Nuclear Agreement, a landmark development that changed the bilateral relationship forever. In 2016, the community helped block the Barack Obama administration’s sale of F-16s to Pakistan.India has shown its gratitude to them with the highest civilian awards. It’s time for the government to reach out to their children, the second-generation Indian-Americans, who are now moving into key government positions. And that should not be difficult.The same study that flags the issue provides the clue. Second-generation Indian-Americans, born in the US, don’t travel to India much; so “Destination India” might not work. But 51% of them said they had watched Indian movies/television in the last month; and 67% of them had eaten Indian food over that period. Could food and films be useful conversation starters? yashwant.raj@hindustantimes.comThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/woo-second-generation-indianamericans-101613141973636.html
12-02-2021||Today's||Effective regulation is key to banking reforms||It is the season for banking reforms. Finance minister (FM) Nirmala Sitharaman’s announcements on the policy for privatisation in banking, insurance and financial services indicate that there will be bare minimum presence of public sector enterprises. The privatisation of a general insurance company and two State-owned banks are to be “taken up” in the year 2021-22. The FM has also proposed to set up an asset reconstruction and management company. While thin on details, the message appears to be strong on commitment. Indeed, the desire to change matters earlier thought to be non-negotiable seems to extend beyond the finance ministry.An internal working group of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) recently recommended that corporate/industrial houses should be allowed to promote commercial banks, subject to “necessary amendments” to the banking legislation to address the risks related to the proposal. The RBI governor has clarified that this was the view of the internal working group and not RBI’s official view.Few will disagree that the financial sector is in dire need of reform. While there should be a robust debate on the merits of these proposals, it is equally important to consider how these will be implemented in the context of the existing regulatory framework. Regulatory governance involves elements of standard-setting, supervision and monitoring, and enforcement.First, standard-setting.Legislating standards requires a delicate balance between issuing rules to help industry understand the regulatory expectation clearly, and providing discretion to the regulator to reel in rogue players who abuse the rules. For instance, the simple principle that banks should not unfairly lend to people related to its owners, when translated into legal rules, will require a definition of the term “related”. The owners/promoters of the bank would, of course, be covered and, if they are individuals, their immediate relatives. But what about lending to a cousin? Similarly, if the promoter is a company, a subsidiary and holding company would be covered, but what about a company in which the promoter holds 10% shareholding and has largely similar key management personnel?To address such attempts to circumvent the law, the rules should allow some discretion for the regulator to act if the objectives of the regulation are sought to be circumvented — for instance, if the promoter, in fact, exercises control or influence even while keeping up appearances of unrelated parties on paper.While there cannot be a universally applicable test to determine whether someone is exercising control or influence — indeed, that would defeat the purpose of providing flexibility to the regulator — a well-developed set of principles to provide guidance on how such factual matters will be determined is required for such amorphous concepts to be effective and fair. Such context-sensitive tests to determine control or influence to guide regulatory officials are still evolving in India and, accordingly, any proposal that hinges on the regulation of related-party lending should tread carefully.Second, supervision and monitoring.Even when the goals and the legislation are clear, supervision and monitoring are critical to ensure the effectiveness of the regulation. For instance, merely transferring the ownership of public sector banks from the government to private hands will not automatically solve the issues plaguing them. While RBI may have greater powers to monitor and supervise these banks once privatised, there are recent examples of privately owned banks that have also had serious challenges and have had to be rescued. RBI conducts regular inspections of banks and can call for information and records. But any comment on its supervisory capacity is bound to be anecdotal given the limited information available publicly in this regard. Greater transparency on the supervisory process, and knowing why and how recent crises in private banks occurred, will help in objectively analysing what needs to change.Similarly, the proposal to set up new entities to deal with stressed assets also requires careful thought, particularly because RBI may be required to regulate them. RBI is already required to supervise and monitor, among others, commercial banks, non-banking financial companies, cooperative banks, small finance banks, payment banks, and housing finance companies (in addition to its other responsibilities including in respect of monetary policy, foreign exchange, and currency). Supervision and monitoring, of course, require assessments of systemic risk and prudential norms, but usually go further and involve closer involvement of RBI in each company — from governance (for example, approving appointments to the board of directors and salaries of chief executives) to operations (for example, priority sector lending and verifying KYC compliance). A frank and open debate is required as to whether there is regulatory capacity to implement these proposals if the reforms are to be meaningful.And, finally, enforcement.Even with the best efforts at standard-setting and supervision, there are bound to be rogue actors. Accordingly, robust enforcement when failures are identified is needed, especially with regard to individual accountability for regulatory non-compliance. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) inquiries and criminal action are notoriously unreliable and slow. A small fine for the organisations may not send the right signal for individual actors to comply with regulations. A quick and efficient mechanism for individual accountability is, therefore, essential to complement standards-setting and supervision. With increasing complexity and potential disputes in management of stressed assets, a framework for dispute resolution among stakeholders (whether or not the regulator is involved in the dispute), may also be required.The need of the hour is effective regulation. Transferring ownership or setting up a new entity will not automatically solve issues for the industry or the regulator. This requires us to ask tough questions on transparency, supervisory capacity, and accountability.S Vivek leads the Regulatory Governance Project at the National Law School of India University, Bengaluru and was formerly a partner of a law firm in MumbaiThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/effective-regulation-is-key-to-banking-reforms-101613141969425.html
12-02-2021||Today's||Why Indian celebrities bend to State power||Long before Akshay Kumar, there was Kishore Kumar. In 1975, soon after the Emergency was declared, Indira Gandhi’s government was keen to get Bollywood to push her 20-point programme and asked the singer-actor to perform at a Youth Congress rally. Kumar refused. In a patently vindictive action, the then information and broadcasting minister, VC Shukla “ordered” a ban on the singer across All India Radio and Doordarshan. Kumar was not alone in the film industry in standing up to the Emergency. Others such as Dev Anand, Manoj Kumar and Shatrughan Sinha also refused to toe the line.Long before the present stars of Indian cricket, there was Bishan Singh Bedi. The legendary left arm spinner tangled with the cricket board authorities on several occasions, once even being banned for a test in 1974 for protesting against the meagre allowances given to the players on tour. Now in his 70s, Bedi has been a rebel without a pause — a perennial anti-establishment figure.So where are the Kumar and Bedi equivalents in today’s world? Why are today’s film and cricketing superstars so unwilling to stand up to any form of executive power and instead resort to obsequious sycophancy, the latest example being the flood of near-identical tweets on farm laws? Those who have never said a word on hundreds of farmer suicides are suddenly expressing their concern over the kisan protests. But by being so obviously part of a central government-organised social media counterblast, in response to a single tweet on farm protests by artiste Rihanna, our iconic stars have reduced themselves to copy-paste cheerleaders, seemingly lacking a mind of their own. In a regime paranoid about image management, the hugely popular stars are pawns in a perception war, remote-controlled by an all-powerful Big State, any defiance of which could lead to unforeseen consequences.It isn’t as if this is entirely a post-2014 phenomenon. Controlling or at least co-opting popular culture icons has been a favourite pastime of every political party in power. Only now, it is much more brazen in intent and execution.When the State bestows patronage on its ideological fellow-travellers and ruthlessly targets its critics, the temptation to follow the leader is that much greater.Fear of retribution is a key factor in pushing our celebrities to toe the official line. From opening up income tax files to lodging enforcement directorate inquiries, State agencies are routinely used to expose the soft underbelly of the rich and famous. The Rhea Chakraborty case last year is a classic example of how untrammelled State power can terrorise the film industry — the danger of a knock on the door from the Narcotics Control Bureau is omnipresent.Moreover, it isn’t just the ruling political elites which are guilty of threat and intimidation. We now have self-styled vigilante groups, State-sponsored social media armies and even some citizens who act as big bullies, unleashing a deadly campaign of cyber abuse and violence.The common strand that unites these forces is their strident espousal of a majoritarian nationalism that effectively criminalises even the slightest expression of dissent as anti-national. In Hollywood, stars such as a Meryl Streep who speak truth to power are celebrated; in India, they are censured.Recall when, a few years ago, actors Shahrukh Khan and Aamir Khan were accused of speaking out on the rising culture of intolerance in society. The street protests against the stars were engineered by an array of groups aligned to the Hindutva ideology, all aiming to question the “patriotism” of the Khans, their surname making them particularly vulnerable in a climate of rising religious bigotry. By threatening to boycott their films and coercing sponsors to withdraw their ads, the protesters were also consciously targeting the financial viability of these high-value brands. The stakes involved in commercial cinema are just too astronomical for most people to take a risk. This might at least partly explain why a top producer-director like Karan Johar had to personally apologise to a political figure like Raj Thackeray for the “hurt sentiments” of the Marathi manoos ahead of the release of one of his films.Ironically, while most of our A-list celebrities have chosen the path of least resistance, it is those on the fringes of the fame industry who are braver and bolder. Perhaps because they feel they have less to lose, they tend to be more courageous. Take, for example, the growing tribe of popular stand-up comedians. A Kunal Kamra has refused to bend before a Supreme Court contempt notice while many others carry on regardless with their plucky entertainment acts. But when a stand-up comedian like a Munawar Faruqui is arrested and kept in jail for a month for an act he didn’t even perform, you ask yourself — how long before they too are reined in? As Kumar might well have sung: Yeh kahan aa gaye hum? (Where have we come?)Post-script: While our film stars bend, what of our champion cricketers who are surely less dependent on government support? Well, when the key official in the cricket board is the son of the second-most powerful person in the country, do we really expect our cricketers to do anything else but discuss farm laws at pre-match team meetings!Rajdeep Sardesai is a senior journalist and authorThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/why-indian-celebrities-bend-to-state-power-101613053518549.html
12-02-2021||Today's||How tech can transform law enforcement||There is an urgent need for law enforcement agencies (LEAs) to adopt technology in their operations as it can act as a force multiplier. This is especially true in India where the police to population ratio is less than 150 per 100,000, whereas the United Nations recommends 222 police officials per 100,000 residents. But there are ways in which LEAs can use technology to increase their efficiency and effectiveness.One, digitise citizen-facing services. Most citizens in India dread the idea of having to go to a police station. Technology can help make this interaction more pleasant. By providing digital access to the police, citizens can avail services from the comfort of their home. The Punjab Police has a citizen-facing portal, Saanjh, which provides online services for downloading first information reports and searching for stolen vehicles and lost mobiles, among other services. These digital portals also provide an easy and transparent mechanism to the citizens to register their complaints, provide feedback and track their complaint status. Technology can also be used to provide senior police officials dashboard views for their areas of jurisdiction, identify trends, patterns, outliers and take corrective action.In addition to digital portals, social media can be used by LEAs to reach out directly to citizens — providing information on traffic jams, how to protect against cybercrime, dispelling rumours, countering fake news. The social media interaction can be both “push” — alerts are sent to citizens — or “pull” — citizens access the social media page/handle in order to get the desired information.Two, use it for crime detection. Technology can effectively help get a digital footprint of the criminal. Mobile forensics can be used to retrieve critical information such as contacts, photos, SMS, video, email, web browsing history, location information and social networking messages. Call Detail Records (CDR) contain information about calls made and received, cell tower location, International Mobile Equipment Identity — a unique identifier for each mobile phone, and International Mobile Subscriber Identity — a unique identifier for each SIM. Due to the high usage of mobile phones, it is difficult to analyse these records manually. CDR analysis tools can be used to identify call patterns, most frequently called numbers, geo-location, and help in tracking missing persons, lost mobiles, movement, and establish relationships between criminal associates.Artificial Intelligence (AI) can be used to match fingerprints, facial images, analyse CCTV footage and recognise vehicle number plates. In order to detect false number plates, AI can also be used to recognise the make and model of the car and match it with the vehicle registered with that number plate. Big Data can be used to integrate data from multiple sources such as social media tools, financial institutions, travel records, hotel stays, CDRs and criminal records. This can help create a 360-degree view of the criminal and draw linkages between criminal associates.Smartphone apps linked to centralised databases can provide the investigating officer real-time access to information on missing vehicles, missing people, dead/unidentified bodies and criminal records, thereby significantly reducing the time taken to investigate a crime.Three, use it in the realm of crime prevention. The holy grail for any LEA is to be able to prevent a crime before it takes place. Big Data can play a major role as it can be used to identify crime patterns and hot spots. AI can be used to draw correlations between the type of crime, time, location. Analysing crime patterns in Punjab showed that snatching incidents peaked around 8 pm in rural districts whereas the peak occurred around 10 pm for urban areas. Information of streets/roads where most of the snatchings occur can be studied by plotting the crime locations on maps. The findings can then be used to deploy beat constables more effectively thereby reducing/preventing crime. Given the high number of postings and transfers in the police, the MIS reports and dashboards can help the newly transferred officer to get up to speed quickly.Sentiment analysis of social media chatter can be used to identify potential riots (including location and time) as well as track the source of rumours designed to create communal disharmony. Social media can also be used in a proactive manner to provide authentic information to the public and dispel false rumours/fake news.Four, LEAs have often not fully appreciated the impact of technology for improving internal efficiency. While most police departments in India have an operational human resources management system in place, efforts need to be put in to mine the data more effectively. Analysis of educational qualifications, age, gender, religion, caste, training, posting, rank, and supervisor-to-employee ratio can be used to identify gaps in the organisation.These gaps can be addressed via hiring, training, postings thereby ensuring a more “balanced” and effective organisation. Similarly, key performance indicators such as the time taken to file a charge-sheet, types of crimes solved, time taken to address complaints, citizen feedback scores can be used to determine an officer’s performance in a more objective manner.Training-Open Source Learning Management Systems, low-cost bandwidth and a digitally aware workforce mean that it is now possible to provide online training in a cost-effective manner on an unprecedented scale. To increase reach and effectiveness, these courses need to be offered in vernacular languages, they can be quiz-based, and certificates and recognition given to officers who demonstrate the ability to leverage these learnings in their jobs.And finally, real-time integration. The five pillars of the criminal justice system are police, courts, prosecution, jails and forensics. While efforts have been made to integrate data from these five pillars at the central level, a lot of work needs to be done to integrate these systems at the state level. Countless man-years are lost in taking physical files from one place to another. Real-time integration between the information technology systems of these pillars will help in reducing duplicate data entry and errors. This will significantly increase the efficiency of our LEAs and, at the same time, drastically reduce the time taken to provide justice. It can be a win-win for all the key stakeholders.Dhruv Singhal is the chief technology officer of Punjab PoliceThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/how-tech-can-transform-law-enforcement-101613053457914.html
12-02-2021||Today's||Farm protests: Don’t write off the BJP in Uttar Pradesh-2022||With assembly elections a year away in Uttar Pradesh (UP), the farm agitation could well give the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) reason for concern when it comes to western UP, an area where it increased its seat tally from 38 of 110 seats in 2012 to 88 in 2017. It is from this region, decades ago, that the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader, Mahendra Singh Tikait, organised farmers to fight collectively for their rights, a legacy being carried on by his son Rakesh Tikait today.The BJP, with its Ram Mandir movement, was able to effectively fracture the famous “Majgar” alliance of Muslims, Ahirs, Jats, Gujjars and Rajputs, assiduously put together by the state’s tallest Jat from the region, the late prime minister, Chaudhary Charan Singh.Can the BJP, which got a large segment of the Jat vote in western UP in a series of elections, be sanguine about their support going forward? Will the angry farmers erode the BJP’s hold in western UP? Today, farm protests have brought together the region’s Jats, Gujjars, Ahirs, Muslims, Tyagis and Brahmins on the same platform. Will they remain disaffected, and for how long?While the BJP cannot take things for granted, it is far too early to predict the outcome of the polls. There are many factors which will come into play. Poll issues, candidates, the strengths and weakness of the Opposition will all count. The BJP has a year to woo back those who have been alienated.There are several reasons why things could change.One, west UP farmers, while demanding a repeal of the three farm laws, have not directly attacked either Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi or chief minister (CM) Yogi Adityanath. The latter has not taken any coercive action against the farmers so far. In fact, he is using various persuasive means to convince Rakesh Tikait to budge from his all-or-nothing position.Two, the communal divide, which seems papered over for now, could still play a role in the elections. The agitation may have revived the fortunes of the Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) chief Chaudhary Ajit Singh and his son Jayant Chaudhary, but their hopes of a Muslim-Jat reconciliation are unlikely to materialise.Three, the PM may work out a solution to the farm protest soon as he is under pressure from influential Jat leaders in the region. In addition, leaders such as defence minister and former UP chief minister Rajnath Singh can be deployed for damage control because of his relationship with many Jat leaders, including Tikait.Four, Ajit Singh could well play a mediatory role. The RLD has been a part of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA). Before the elections, Singh might weigh all his options. Despite the RLD’s alliance with the Samajwadi Party (SP) and the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), both father and son lost their seats in their own pocketboroughs of Muzaffarnagar and Baghpat in 2019. As of now, farmers, irrespective of caste or community, are angry with the government. But will this last after a year? Could RLD’s calculations change?And finally, the BJP has other issues which could win it support. One is the promise of development and the other is to cash in on an issue which has evoked much ferment in western UP, and indeed across the state — that of “love jihad”. Irrespective of one’s personal view about it, stories of Muslim men enticing Hindu women into marriage and converting them to Islam have found much traction among Hindus of all castes. There is also much support for the CM’s signature anti-cow slaughter measures.The fortunes of the BJP in 2022, therefore, rest on several factors. Will Rakesh Tikait’s impassioned performance in the farm protest wash away communal animosity and reunite the Jats and Muslims against the party? Can the farm movement revive the RLD? Will agrarian distress change the politics of the region decisively? Will 2022 be a vote on emotional lines or will economics play a major role?As of now, the BJP still has time to work out many of these issues.saron@hindustantimes.comThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/farm-protests-don-t-write-off-the-bjp-in-uttar-pradesh2022-101613053456564.html
12-02-2021||Editorials||Spare cricket from bigotry | HT Editorial||Wasim Jaffer, a former Indian Test cricketer and the highest run-scorer in the Ranji Trophy, resigned as the coach of the Uttarakhand team earlier this week, alleging that officials had pushed undeserving players. A day later, a senior office-bearer of the Cricket Association of Uttarakhand (CAU) accused Mr Jaffer of “communalising the dressing room” and favouring Muslim players. Mr Jaffer has strongly denied the allegations, expressed deep hurt, and has drawn support from cricketers — from Anil Kumble and Irfan Pathan, to his former teammates in state teams who have vouched for his professionalism and integrity.A fallout between a coach and a cricket association is not new, neither are differences that may arise on selection of players or how a team should function or the autonomy a coach must enjoy. But Indian cricket has been an exemplar of Indian secularism in practice. It has not mattered if you are Hindu, Muslim, Sikh, Christian, Parsi; it has not mattered if you are from the south or north or east or west; it has not mattered if you are from a slick urban upper middle-class background or have small-town subaltern roots. All that has mattered is how you bat, bowl, field and function in the cricket team, on purely cricketing yardsticks. That these allegations were made against Mr Jaffer is deeply disturbing, for it is an effort to introduce the politics of communalism, bigotry and prejudice into what has often been called India’s true religion, cricket.If the allegations were an aberration, they could well be dismissed. But it comes in the wake of a rising trend of marginalising minorities and forcing them to prove their nationalism at each juncture. In the world of films, another secular space, Muslim actors are increasingly cautious in expressing their views given the systematic attacks against film icons who have, in the past, expressed dissent. In the world of politics, there is severe underrepresentation of Muslims in power structures. In the world of law and the criminal justice system, there is an effort to penalise interfaith marriages, especially between Muslim men and Hindu women. And in society, the gulf between Hindus and Muslims has only increased, often fuelled by hate speech on social media and in electoral campaigns. Mr Jaffer’s story is a disturbing tale of how this prejudice has now seeped into cricket, and must be unequivocally condemned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/spare-cricket-from-bigotry-hteditorial-101613141967355.html
12-02-2021||Editorials||In Ladakh, be cautious | HT Editorial||In a statement in Parliament, defence minister Rajnath Singh laid out the background of the border dispute with China, the contours of the standoff in eastern Ladakh since last year, and most crucially, the details of a breakthrough in talks between the two sides, leading to the beginning of a process of disengagement in the Pangong Tso area. Mr Singh said that forward deployments would be stopped in a “phased, coordinated and verified manner”. The Chinese side would keep its presence east of Finger 8, while India would maintain its permanent base near Finger 3. Similar action would be taken on the southern banks. Structures built by the two sides, both on the northern and southern banks, would be removed. There would be a “temporary moratorium” on military activities, including patrolling in traditional areas, which will recommence only after military and diplomatic talks. The implementation of this process began on Wednesday, and, Mr Singh said, it would “substantially” restore the situation to that existing prior to the standoff. And senior commanders would meet 48 hours after this process of disengagement to take up the dispute in other friction areas.This is a breakthrough. And the government must be applauded for using a mix of four instruments — direct engagement, strong military build-up, economic measures, and international partnerships — in keeping the pressure on China. As former foreign secretary Shyam Saran wrote in this newspaper on the day the disengagement began, Beijing had boxed itself into a corner, underestimated Indian resolve, and was looking for ways to extricate itself. A mix of hard messaging and pragmatism has helped India over the past year in forcing China to backtrack — and remember Beijing has backtracked, for it had violated agreements and overstepped in Pangong Tso.At the same time, it is crucial that the government insist on the restoration of status quo ante. This would mean the resumption of patrolling rights till Finger 8 in due course. It also must monitor the extent of Chinese withdrawal, for remobilisation can’t be ruled out. India must maintain its position on all other friction points, including Depsang which is of strategic value. And it must retain some form of military leverage — remember, taking control of the heights on the southern banks changed the game — to force China to abide by the understanding.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/in-ladakh-be-cautious-ht-editorial-101613053522089.html
12-02-2021||Editorials||In defence of private enterprise | HT Editorial||Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in the course of his speech in the Lok Sabha on Wednesday, mounted a robust defence of the role of the private sector — and by extension, Indian capitalism — in nation-building. This is an ideological battle that India should have decisively resolved back in 1991 with liberalisation and loosening of controls. But the historical legacy of suspicion towards the private sector, the evolution of Indian capitalism since 1991, and entirely antiquated ideological positions that prioritise State-led distribution without thought to the processes of wealth creation has meant that, unfortunately, business and profit remain dirty words in the Indian political lexicon.PM Modi made a set of points. If wealth creators are not encouraged, how will jobs be generated and how will the process of wealth distribution take place? Aren’t private individuals citizens who must be trusted? Will the entire country run on the whims and diktats of the Indian Administrative Service “babus”? This political ownership of capitalism and the private sector is significant, for there is no other way for India to become more prosperous.For this defence of capitalism to percolate down, two things need to happen. One, pro-business policies must not be seen as policies in favour of select business houses. The emergence of what are akin to monopolies in key sectors has deepened distrust of the market. Indian capitalism will be more credible if it is not associated only with a small set of “national champions”. Two, the resistance to capitalism will diminish if it is seen as leading to both growth and equity. PM Modi has been intellectually honest and shown political courage. The Opposition, particularly the Congress, which launched the reforms, must show the same courage in recognising, rather than demonising, the private sector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/in-defence-of-private-enterprise-hteditorial-101613053516619.html
