15-02-2021||Patna||Kanhaiya, LJP MP meet JDU leaders; fuel speculation||Political circle in Bihar was left speculating after the meeting of former JNU president and CPI leader Kanhaiya Kumar with JD(U) minister Ashok Choudhary on Monday. Another meeting on late Sunday evening between chief minister Nitish Kumar and LJP MP from Nawada, Chandan Singh, led to another round of exchange of words between JD(U) and the LJP leaders.Choudhary, a close aide of CM Kumar, had been instrumental recently in enlisting the support of the sole BSP MLA Zama Khan and independent legislator Sumit Singh, both of whom were inducted into the cabinet last week. He had also caused anxieties in the LJP after his meeting with its sole MLA Raj Kumar Singh to his residence for a book launch function a few weeks back.Kanhaiya’s meeting with the JD(U) leader comes at a time when the former JNU leader is facing heat from the party after a censure motion was passed by his party at the national committee meeting at Hyderabad following alleged manhandling of a key CPI official attached to the state headquarters in Patna by him and his supporters.If CPI sources are to be believed, there had been tensions between the former JNU president and his party during the Lok Sabha elections when the CPI reportedly insisted that he shared a part of the money he had raised through crowdfunding.Though Kanhaiya was not available for comments, Choudhary denied that it was a political meeting. “People from different parties keep meeting for development related works. Nothing is cooking,” he said.Also read: Worry for Maharashtra - Local trains, laxity fuel spikeSources close to Kanhaiya insisted that it was a “non-political” meeting and that both have known each other for long. The meeting, however, was not liked by JD(U) alliance partner, the BJP.Subhash Singh, state minister from the BJP quota, called the former JNUSU president a lunatic and said his meeting with a senior leader of an alliance partner was not appropriate. JD (U) spokesperson Ajay Alok said, “Kanhaiya is welcome into our party if he chooses to give up his perverse (vikrit) ideology".Kanhaiya is also understood to have been disappointed with his party’s decision to side with the RJD, which had queered the pitch for him in the Lok Sabha polls by fielding its candidate and acknowledge Tejashwi Yadav as the undisputed leader of the five-party Grand Alliance.Leaders in the NDA, on condition of anonymity, said they feel this is another try by the JD(U) to raise its stock after its unsatisfactory performance in the assembly elections.Meeting with LJP MPAnother meeting which evoked keen interest was the meeting of Nawada LJP MP Chandan Singh with the CM late on Sunday evening. The meeting between the MP and the CM gave a chance to the JD(U) to attack the LJP, which had been questioning the development in Bihar.“Chirag Paswan has been alleging that his constituency of Jamui has been neglected and there has been no progress in Bihar at all. The meeting between his party MP and the chief minister is a rebuff to his brand of politics the CM believes in,” said JD(U) spokesman Rajiv Ranjan Prasad.The LJP sought to downplay the significance of the meeting. “Our respected MP must have met the chief minister concerning development works in his constituency. We wonder what is there to be so excited about,” LJP spokesman Ashraf Ansari said in a video statement.Paswan’s party had fielded candidates against all JD(U) nominees, which affected the performance of the ruling party in many seats. The LJP has six MPs in Lok Sabha from Bihar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/kanhaiya-ljp-mp-meet-jdu-leaders-fuel-speculation-101613413303820.html
15-02-2021||Noida||GB Nagar records 76% turn out for second dose; few takers for mop-up round||At least 76% of 393 health workers, who got inoculated on January 16, turned up on Monday for their second Covid-19 vaccine dose, said health officials, adding that a total of 8,183 health workers out of a total of 24,453 beneficiaries have refrained from getting the Covid-19 jab in the mop-up round of the first phase of inoculation in Gautam Budh Nagar. Dr Neeraj Tyagi, district vaccination officer, Gautam Budh Nagar, said that taking a serious note of the directions given by the state health department for increasing the vaccination turnout, the department set up 80 booths across 28 different locations in the district, for the mop-up round of Covid-19 phase-1 vaccination on Monday. “Only 2,126 health workers, out of 12,911 who were left out in the first phase, turned up for their inoculation in the mop-up round on Monday. These left-out beneficiaries could not get the jab in any of the six sessions of the first phase of vaccination,” he said. He further said that after the mop-up round, the final figure of vaccine beneficiaries in the first phase stands at 66.53%. “As many as 16,270 health workers could be inoculated in all six sessions and the mop-up round. Now, the failure of beneficiaries to get vaccinated in the mop-up round will automatically push them to the age-appropriate vaccination category, which will perhaps take place after the last round of vaccination,” he said. When asked about the reasons behind the lukewarm response to the mop-up drive, Deepak Ohri, chief medical officer, Gautam Budh Nagar, said that while a lack of confidence in the vaccine among the health workers appears to be the main reason, the response towards the vaccine among health professionals in the private sector has also been less enthusiastic than among those employed with the government. “While many of them remained sceptical about the efficacy of the vaccine, others claimed that they do not need it as their bodies have developed immunity against the virus. Many clerical and hospital administration staff, besides some medical students, were reported to give the vaccination a miss deliberately as they claimed that since they were never on active Covid-19 duty, they didn’t want to get vaccinated,” he said. The CMO said that the health department officials had informed the beneficiaries two days ahead of their stipulated date of vaccination. “We had also informed the departments concerned of the beneficiaries about their presence or absence during the vaccination. I admit that we need to increase confidence in the vaccine and improve the public understanding of how people can help control the spread of Covid-19 in their families and their communities,” he said. Many health workers in private hospitals said they did not have a clear idea of what to expect of the vaccine; many were unhappy with the way the vaccination drive has been conducted. As a result, a large chunk of corona warriors remained undecided on the vaccine. A resident from private hospital cited absence of names as a reason for not taking the jab yet.”Since, my name is not listed, how can I take it? I’ll take it when my name appears on the list,” she said. Echoing similar views, a resident from another hospital said that before launching the vaccination drive, the opinions of doctors were not taken. “The administration prepared the list in a hurry. The low turnout is only a proof that the drive may be more of a political move rather than for actual immunisation,” he said, preferring anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/gb-nagar-records-76-turn-out-for-second-dose-few-takers-for-mop-up-round-101613413250985.html
15-02-2021||Noida||Man kills wife, injures self in Vaishali flat; probe on||Ghaziabad: A 38-year-old man allegedly killed his wife at their house in Vaishali Sector 5 late Sunday night, and later hurt himself. The family of the deceased has filed a complaint against the man.The man, identified as Devjeet Datta, was admitted to a hospital, police said.“The couple was alone in the house when the incident took place — possibly in the intervening night of February 14-15. From the scene of crime, it seems that the man probably strangled his wife late Sunday night and later slashed his wrist. It is possible he wanted to kill himself. The cause of her death will be clear once we get the post-mortem report. The injured man was spotted by his neighbours after he walked out of his house on Monday. The locals informed the police,” said superintendent of police (City 2) Gyanendra Singh.The woman was identified as 35-year-old Puja Datta. Their 10-year-old son was staying at his grandparents’ house in Delhi’s Karol Bagh.“The motive behind the murder is still unclear as the suspect is still in the hospital, undergoing treatment. He has, however, left a note at his house, saying it was his fault and no one else should be blamed for the incident,” Singh added.According to police sources, the man had written two timings on the white board at his house — 11.35 pm on February 14, and 5 am on February 15. Police suspect he mentioned about the timing of the murder, and when he injured himself.One CCTV footage from near the flat has also emerged, in which the man could be seen walking out of his house around 9 am on Monday.The suspect works at an online platform to earn a livelihood. He also heads a parents’ association at a private school in Indirapuram, where his wife was a teacher two years ago, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/man-kills-wife-injures-self-in-vaishali-flat-probe-on-101613413011606.html
15-02-2021||Noida||12 days after man’s death over parking spot, family ‘awaits’ police action||Twelve days after a 55-year-old businessman died following an altercation with his neighbour over a parking spot, the family has alleged that Noida Police is yet to take due action in the case.The deceased, Rajiv Lal (55), was a resident of Sector 15A. On the evening of December 26, Lal found his parking spot outside his house being blocked by a neighbour. When he confronted, his family became aggressive. The two got in an argument, and the suspect attacked Lal, who ended up with chest injuries.He was taken to a private hospital in Sector 27 for treatment, from where he was discharged days later. He, however, again complained of chest pain on January 31 and eventually died on February 3 at the same hospital.A case had initially been registered at the Sector 20 police against the neighbour for an attempt to commit culpable homicide. However, the section was later changed to 323 of the Indian Penal Code (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), because of which the suspect was granted bail.The family has vehemently objected to the manner in which the case was handled, following which the investigation was transferred from the Noida Zone to Central Noida’s Phase 2 police station. However, they are still awaiting police action.“It has been more than ten days since he passed away and the police are yet to take any action. We are still waiting for justice to be served,” said Ayushi Lal, daughter of the deceased.The family members have also taken extensively to social media to demand thorough police action in the case.Meanwhile, Noida Police has claimed that a probe in the matter is underway.“The investigating officer is reviewing all the evidence. All medico-legal statements are being recorded and the case is being thoroughly reviewed after which we will take the necessary action,” said Harish Chander, deputy commissioner of police, Zone 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/12-days-after-man-s-death-over-parking-spot-family-awaits-police-action-101613413010989.html
15-02-2021||Delhi||Only around 51% health workers have taken 2nd vaccine dose in Delhi||Just over half the health care workers in the city who received a shot of the coronavirus vaccine during the first two days of the inoculation drive have returned for their second shot in the two days since the state government began administering the final dose of the jab, district data shows. So far, 4,047, or 51.1%, of health care workers have received the second dose of the vaccine, including 2,191 who turned up to get the second dose of the vaccine on Monday. Beneficiaries who received a dose of the coronavirus vaccine on January 16, when the nationwide inoculation programme kicked off, were eligible to get the second dose on Saturday. While 1,856 health care workers received the second shot on Saturday, experts said they hoped the turnout would significantly increase after the weekend. Both the vaccines being administered in the country, Covaxin and Covishield, require two doses be given four to six weeks apart, as per the national drug regulator. However, some data suggests that the vaccine by Oxford/Astrazeneca (whose Indian variant is covishield) has better efficacy if administered after 12 weeks. “There are a lot of messages going around among doctors and other healthcare workers that the immune response is better when the doses are given 12 weeks apart. This may be a reason many might want to wait till the six week cut-off to get the shot,” Dr Suneela Garg, professor of community medicine at Maulana Azad Medical College had told HT on Saturday. Meanwhile on Monday, nearly 15,000 people in Delhi received the first dose of the vaccines, across 265 centres. This puts the overall vaccine coverage — proportion of people who received the vaccines among those targeted — in Delhi at 56.4%. Government data shows that over half the people who were given the shots on Monday were front line workers, while the rest were those classified as “front line workers”. “The number of health care workers coming to the centres is slowly going down, with more and more frontline workers, especially police personnel, coming to get the shots. We have asked the healthcare workers who haven’t received the vaccine yet to do so at the earliest because we have to end the drive for them on February 20,” said a senior district official. The central government has set a February 20 deadline to vaccinate all health care workers who want to get the shots, and March 1 for frontline workers. An additional five days will be allowed for “mop-up” activity to immunise anyone who is left out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/only-around-51-health-workers-have-taken-2nd-vaccine-dose-in-delhi-101613412953452.html
15-02-2021||Mumbai||Co-WIN app develops glitch again: Names of many Mumbai health workers go missing||Even as the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) started administering the second jab of Covid-19 vaccines to beneficiaries who were inoculated on January 16, many healthcare workers (HCWs) could not get the shot as their names were missing in the ‘partially vaccinated’ section owing to a technical glitch on the centralised Co-WIN app. As per the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) rules, beneficiaries of Covishield and Covaxin have to take the second dose after 28 days of taking the first vaccine. All 1,926 beneficiaries who were vaccinated on January 16, the first day of the nation-wide mass immunisation drive, were supposed to get the second dose on Monday. BMC claims they don’t have the cumulative data. “Names of some HCWs who took the first vaccines were missing from the Co-WIN app on Monday. So, we couldn’t vaccinate them. We had to send them home,” said Dr Sankhe Lalit, incharge of the Covaxin immunisation programme at JJ hospital. Dr Sandhaya More, a dentist, who went to Nair Hospital, said, “I had to change my appointments to get my second shot. But after reaching the hospital, I was told that my name was not visible on the app. I was again asked to come next week.” Also, doctors whose names were showing on the app didn’t get any auto generated message from Co-WIN about their scheduled appointment for the second dose. Dr Gautam Bhansali, a consultant physician with Bombay Hospital was informed telephonically on Sunday night to reach BKC jumbo centre for his vaccination. A senior health officer seeking anonymity said on January 16, as the application didn’t work, it didn’t register the names of the beneficiaries who got the first shot. So now, the application is failing to generate the names of those HCWs for their second shot. Another staff from BYL Nair hospital said they haven’t been allowed to give second dose offline if their names don’t get reflected on the system. According to experts, the first dose of the vaccine helps recognise the virus and ramp up the immune system which helps the body fight against diseases. The second dose is called the booster shot, which helps in further boosting of the immune system. Dr Rahul Pandit, director-Critical Care, Fortis Hospital, Mumbai, said, “Scientific evidence and data available for Covishield says the second dose must be taken within 8-12 weeks because the efficacy is better. No such data is available for Covaxin. In the public health set-up, one needs to follow the guidelines and if our national immunisation guidelines say the second dose must be taken on completion of four weeks, we should abide by it,” he said. Of the 1,926 beneficiaries who got first dose on January 16, only 71 got their second dose, which stands as 3.68% turnout. BMC, in its press release, blamed the glitch in the CoWIN app as the reason behind the low turnout.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cowin-app-develops-glitch-again-names-of-many-mumbai-health-workers-go-missing-101613412952950.html
15-02-2021||Noida||Greater Noida: Man kills minor girl for rejecting his proposal; held||Greater Noida: A 25-year-old man was arrested on Monday for allegedly strangling a 15-year-old girl to death in Surajpur after she rejected his marriage proposal. The victim’s family members alleged that the victim was sexually assaulted before murder, citing the post-mortem report.The suspect, Sunil Yadav who is a native of Ghazipur, had shifted to a rented accommodation in the victim’s neighbourhood on January 20, police said, adding that the incident took place on February 8.The victim was a native of Kannauj in Uttar Pradesh. The complainant, victim’s elder brother, said that he, along with his wife, 2.5-year-old son, father, and two sisters aged 15 and 10 years had shifted to a rented accommodation in Surajpur on January 17. According to the police, the building has 11 rooms at the ground floor, while first and second floors are incomplete and presently vacant where the murder took place. The suspect also lived in one of the rooms at the ground floor of the building. The complainant said he, along with his wife and father, went for work at a private company while his sisters looked after his son at home. “On February 8 evening, my sister went missing from the house. We launched a search and found her dead at the first floor. She had injuries in head and neck. The post-mortem report states cause of death as ‘asphyxia due to strangulation’ and also suggests sexual assault,” he alleged.A case was registered under Section 302 (murder) of Indian Penal Code at Surajpur police station.Harish Chander, deputy commissioner of police, Noida Central, said, “Police investigation shows the girl had rejected Yadav’s proposal as she was in a relationship with another boy from her native town. That boy had visited her on February 8. The suspect became jealous of their friendship after seeing them together, and he planned to murder the girl,” he said.According to police, when the girl’s friend left the house and the victim went upstairs to bring clothes, Yadav approached her and strangled her on the first floor and dumped the body in a vacant room.Chander said police scanned the victim’s call records and first detained her friend. “He revealed that he was in a relationship with her and did not kill her. He revealed it was Yadav who was trying to make friendship with the victim. Police then picked up Yadav who admitted his role in the murder,” he said.On the allegation of sexual assault, the DCP said, “The medical report does not clearly state if there was a sexual assault. We will seek medical opinion, and if rape is confirmed, we will add the rape charges to the FIR as well,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/greater-noida-man-kills-minor-girl-for-rejecting-his-proposal-held-101613412951088.html
15-02-2021||Noida||Greater Noida: Kidnapped boy recovered from Dankaur||Greater Noida: A 13-year-old boy, who was allegedly kidnapped on Saturday morning from outside his house, was recovered in Dankaur by police on Sunday evening. Police said that the abductors, fearing arrest, dropped the boy near a fuel station and fled the spot. The family members and local people on Sunday had held a protest at Dankaur police station demanding the child’s recovery. The boy is a student of class 4 in a local school, police said. Rajesh Kumar Singh, deputy commissioner of police, Greater Noida, said that the boy had gone missing from Noranpur village. “Police formed 15 teams and launched an intensive search in Greater Noida, and neighbouring cities. Police also received information that two suspects were seen going with the child on a motorcycle through Amarpur village. Soon, a police team reached the village,” he said. The suspects had realised the police movement and they dropped the child near a fuel station and fled, Singh said, adding that the police team recovered the child.Sandeep, the boy’s uncle, said that two suspects had picked up the child on a motorcycle and then locked him in a room. “The suspects threatened the child and asked him to share his father’s contact number. But he was unable to recall the number,” he said. On Monday, the boy’s family members again protested outside Dankaur police station demanding arrest of the criminals, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/greater-noida-kidnapped-boy-recovered-from-dankaur-101613412891474.html
15-02-2021||Other||Farm protests: Kejriwal to address Kisan Mahapanchayat in Meerut on Feb 28||New Delhi: Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal will address a kisan mahapanchayat in Meerut on February 28 in support of the protests against the Centre’s new farm laws, the AAP said on Monday.The AAP has supported the ongoing protest by the farmers who have maintained that the three new laws passed by Parliament in September that seek to deregulate agricultural trade are meant to impose a corporate monopoly. The government, which has held several rounds of talks with the farmers, says that all assets of farmers will be safeguarded and the new laws will not scrap the Minimum Support Price or MSP. Kejriwal has visited the protesting farmers at the Singhu border at least twice. He visited the protest site on December 7 to review the arrangements by the Delhi government which included tents and sanitation facilities. On December 8, when the protesting farmers called for a Bharat Bandh, Kejriwal said the Delhi Police put him under “house arrest” to prevent him from meeting the farmers. On December 27, the Delhi CM visited Singhu border again to participate in a cultural event organised by the Delhi government.“AAP National Convenor @ArvindKejriwal to address a Kisan Mahapanchayat in Meerut, Uttar Pradesh on 28th February, 2021. Aam Aadmi Party has convened a Mahapanchayat to support the demands of the protesting farmers,” the AAP said in a tweet on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/farm-protests-kejriwal-to-address-kisan-mahapanchayat-in-meerut-on-feb-28-101613412890943.html
15-02-2021||Noida||Noida begins developing park on landfill site||NOIDA: The Noida authority on Monday planted hundreds of saplings to develop part of a landfill site in Sector 145 as a park after remediation of about 200,000 tonnes of waste. The authority has planned to convert the entire landfill into a green zone in the next eight months, officials said.“Today, we planted 250 saplings on the land, which is freed of at least 2 lakh tonnes of waste. We are developing around 8,000 square metres area as park, and gradually we will convert entire 20,000 square metres of the landfill into a park,” said Indu Prakash Singh, officer on special duty, Noida authority.In June 2018, the authority had identified around 20,000 square metres land for the remediation of waste. Now, the authority has decided to make sure that the waste is treated in respective sectors, said the officials.As per the official figures, the city produces about 900 metric tonne waste daily. The authority has been emphasising on the treatment of biodegradable waste at generation point and encouraging the citizens to segregate waste at source so that green waste reaches the compost plants being set up at multiple locations.“We have set up construction and demolition plant to treat construction waste. Besides, green waste is being treated at compost plants and other waste is also handled as per the rules. In the next eight months, we will convert entire 20,000 square metres landfill site into a green zone. We will plant trees daily and will develop a green zone on the 8,000 square metres area in the next one month,” said Singh.This temporary landfill site is surrounded by a large forest reserve on one side and Hindon river on the other. Mubarakpur village is at a distance of around 2km from Hindon. The land is located off the Noida-Greater Noida Expressway. People living around the landfill had been demanding to clear the waste from the site.“As per the waste management rules 2016, it is advised that waste should be treated by the bulk waste producers and individuals so that there is no need of a landfill site,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-begins-developing-park-on-landfill-site-101613412830978.html
15-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai’s Chembur area to go under lockdown?||With M-West ward that covers Chembur clocking in the highest number of new Covid-19 cases, a majority of them from high-rises, the ward office on Monday started issuing new guidelines to societies and directed the hawkers to undergo Covid-19 tests. Civic officials also hinted at the possibility of “imposition of local lockdown measures” to control rising cases, and insisted on starting the drive for the elderly in the ward at the earliest.A week ago, the ward was recording less than 15 new cases daily, which has now increased to more than 25 cases. The daily Covid-19 growth rate of the ward is 0.28%, higher than the city’s average growth rate of 0.14%. Civic officials have blamed negligent behaviour by citizens who are violating guidelines issued by the Centre and state government. Taking cognisance of the situation, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has started issuing stringent guidelines to residential societies in the ward with the subject line—‘Appeal/Instructions to all societies to follow strict covid guidelines’.Also Watch | Covid update: 18-19 vaccines in India pipeline; IIT on virus life; SII promiseThe notice has laid down five basic guidelines that societies need to implement. These are – “Your society will restrict entry of outsiders to minimum including maids/milk man etc; measures like thermal screening to be strictly implemented; positive cases, if any in society, to follow strict quarantine guidelines by family for 14 days; others in the family to get tested compulsorily as high-risk contacts and any other symptomatic person in society to get checked for Covid through MCGM.”The notice further reads that the civic body has started sealing buildings and societies with higher prevalence of Covid-19 cases.As HT reported on Monday, there has been an increase in group infections in the ward with public dropping their guard. “We have also started a house-to-house survey. We are getting cases of group infection where seven-eight people from the same family have tested positive for the virus. It is the responsibility of the public to follow safety rules,” said Prithviraj Chauhan, assistant municipal commissioner, M/W ward. “Weddings and family functions are turning into super spreader events.”While issuing guidelines to residential societies, the ward officer also hinted at imposition of a local lockdown if citizens are not cautious in controlling the cases.The notice available with HT reads, “At present M-W ward is reporting the highest daily cases which is matter of concern and there are chances that we might have to impose local lockdown measures.” When asked, Chauhan said he has already informed the higher authority about it. “The final call on imposing local lockdown has to be taken by the BMC,” he added.To control the spread, the ward officer has suggested starting the vaccination programme for the elderly at the earliest. “The AMC (the additional municipal commissioner) will be reviewing the issue on vaccination, and take a decision on it tomorrow,” he added.Additionally, the ward, starting February 14, started testing hawkers and shopkeepers. “Just like the past, we have started focusing on places that get a high number of people. So, we are testing hawkers from ‘khao gallies’ and vegetables sellers,” said Dr Bhupendra Patil, medical officer health (MOH) of the ward.As per BMC dashboard, M-W ward has the lowest doubling rate (245 days). Till February 13, the average doubling rate of the city stood at 479 days.On Sunday, the city recorded more than 600 new cases. Talking to HT, Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, BMC, attributed it to four factors —foreign travellers, domestic passengers from Kerala, more testing and resumption of local trains for all. “On a daily basis, we are conducting over 15,000 tests, which is contributing to new Covid-19 cases. Opening local trains for everyone can also be a factor, but it would be too early to say so. We have to wait for another week to make an assessment,” said Kakani.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbais-chembur-area-to-go-under-lockdown-101613412712148.html
15-02-2021||Mumbai||Worry for Maharashtra: Local trains, laxity fuel spike||Maharashtra, the state worst-hit by Covid-19 in India, is again seeing a resurgence of new cases bringing an end to a three-month-long plateau, two weeks after the state government started relaxing norms of social movement, including the wider restart of local trains in Mumbai.This spike in cases is particularly noticeable in Mumbai and surrounding areas, and is being attributed by experts to the resumption in local train services since February 1, lifting of most curbs in recent weeks, and laxity in Covid-appropriate behaviour.In the past week, the state reported 21,356 new infections of Covid-19 – the highest in any week since the week ending January 17. On Sunday, the state reported 4,092 new cases – the highest single-day cases since January 6. And on Monday, when number generally dip due to drop in testing numbers over the weekend, there were 3,365 new cases – the most reported on a Monday since January 4.The state government insists that it won’t be reimposing restrictions on movement in the immediate future. State health minister Rajesh Tope said they see reimposition of curbs as the last resort. For now, they are focusing on preventive measures.Read more: Amid rise in Covid-19 cases, Maharashtra minister looks at ‘3T formula’However, state deputy chief minister and finance minister Ajit Pawar said they may have to take some harsh decisions as people have “stopped following Covid-appropriate rules”.The state government has directed all district collectors and commissioners to strictly follow the “3T principle (testing, tracking and treatment)” and take measures to ensure Covid-appropriate behaviour is followed. The health minister also said they have directed officials to increase testing at locations where they notice a rise in cases.In Mumbai, this resurgence in cases has come two weeks after the local trains, considered the lifeline of the city, were restarted for the general public from February 1. General public is now allowed to travel from the first train of the day till 7am, 12pm to 4pm, and post 9pm till the last train. In the last two weeks, at least 15 million people have travelled on the local trains, according to official figures.There is no cap in Mumbai for passengers per coach in local trains. Social distancing norms such as masks and social distancing have been requested, but not enforced. In contrast, Delhi Metro enforces a limit of 50 persons in a single coach, queue management outside stations and members of a special task force conduct visits on stations and trains to fine passengers violating mask and social distancing norms.Read more: ‘Statement distorted, I said BJP should be...’: Maharashtra home minister Deshmukh on probe into celebrities’ tweetsOfficials from Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said they are having second thoughts about any further relaxations in local train timings for the general public. BMC additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said, “We are not taking any decision yet. We will monitor the situation until February 22.”The city has been reporting over 500 cases since February 10, and on Sunday, the city reported 645 Covid-19 cases on Sunday followed by four deaths. Overall, the city has reported 314,076 Covid-19 cases and 11,419 deaths. Mumbai is one of the worst-hit regions in the country with a case fatality rate (CFR) of 3.63% — more than double the national average of 1.43%.Tope dismissed the idea of suspending local train services. He said that they have started local train services only recently and that too with staggered timings to avoid crowding. “We are monitoring the situation and see no reason to take extreme steps immediately... It has certainly alarmed us... (But) lockdown restrictions and suspending local train services would be the last step,” he said.Read more: Maharashtra: Colleges reopen in rural areas of Thane after 11 months“People must follow Covid-appropriate rules and the authorities should also ensure that they are strictly followed. They will also have to be held accountable if they find any negligence. If this is not done then lockdown is required to be re-imposed to control the situation,” Tope told reporters in Aurangabad.Experts said that restriction of some norms such as night curfews may be required if cases continue to rise.“We might notice some spike in the number of cases owing to gradual reopening and unlocking, but this does not mean we go on shutting the city again. We will have to restrict movement and maybe night curfew can be one solution here. Secondly, the government should also focus on increasing the speed of vaccination. With vaccination, cases will come under control gradually,” said Dr Siddarth Paliwal, a physician from the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/worry-for-maharashtra-local-trains-laxity-fuel-spike-101613412420070.html
15-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai breathes cleanest air of the year, pollution levels drop||The city breathed its cleanest air so far this year as rising temperatures and wind from the sea cleared up pollution levels.Mumbai recorded an Air Quality Index (AQI)—a pollution measuring indicator—of 115 on Monday, significantly down from 186 on Sunday. The AQI was in the 'moderate' category. Before this, the city’s lowest AQI was 156 (moderate) on January 19.The AQI was calculated by the System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) as the average of indices recorded across 10 locations in the city and suburbs. SAFAR categorises AQI levels for PM2.5 in the 0-50 range as 'good'; 51-100 as 'satisfactory'; 101-200 as 'moderate'; 201-300 as 'poor'; 301-400 as 'very poor' and above 400 as 'severe'.Of the 10 locations measured, only Andheri recorded poor quality air with an AQI of 208. Malad recorded an AQI of 173 and Navi Mumbai recorded 157 but both were in the moderate category.Also read: Disengagement in eastern Ladakh’s Pangong Tso in full swing, may be over soonOn September 4, 2019, Mumbai recorded its all-time best AQI of 12 since SAFAR began measuring air quality in June 2015. Last year on June 30, the city equalled its best AQI of 12.“Temperatures have been on the rise for some time now, bringing down pollution levels. Clean winds from the ocean have further improved the air quality in Mumbai. It is expected to remain in the moderate category for the next two days,” said a SAFAR spokesperson.Meanwhile, minimum temperatures increased slightly. At the Colaba station of the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD), minimum temperature of 21.2 degrees Celsius was recorded, up from Sunday’s 20.5 degrees Celsius and a degree above normal. At Santacruz, the minimum temperature was up from Sunday’s 19.4 degrees Celsius to 20.2 degrees Celsius, 2 degrees above normal.The maximum temperature at Colaba was 29.4 degrees Celsius, at par with normal. At Santacruz, the maximum temperature was 29.9 degrees Celsius, a degree below normal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-breathes-cleanest-air-of-the-year-pollution-levels-drop-101613411710778.html
15-02-2021||Gurugram||City air worsens due to low wind speed||The city’s air quality entered the ‘very poor’ zone on Monday with the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) bulletin recording the air quality index (AQI) at 306 — a rise from Sunday’s AQI reading of 288 in the ‘poor’ category. While the India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) automatic weather station (AWS) for Gurugram did not record the minimum temperature on Monday, the IMD’s AWS at the Palam observatory in Delhi, recorded the day’s minimum temperature at 12.6 degrees Celsius. The city’s maximum temperature stood at 27 degrees Celsius. As per the IMD’s weekly forecast, the maximum and minimum temperatures are expected to hover around 27 and 10 degrees Celsius respectively on Tuesday. The IMD, on Monday, also said that warmer night temperatures are likely to continue over the plains of North India during the next five days. Experts said that the deterioration of air quality was on the account of low surface winds which were not favourable for effective dispersal of pollutants. VK Soni, head of IMD’s environment monitoring and research centre, said that the AQI is expected to improve in the next two days due to better ventilation conditions. “While the wind speed is not improving much, the mixing height is increasing day by day due to which we can expect better ventilation and subsequently better air quality in the next two days,” said Soni. The mixing height is the vertical height at which suspended particles mix with the air The level of ultra-fine particulate matter having a diameter of 2.5 microns or less (PM 2.5), the city’s primary pollutant, was 232.55 micrograms per cubic metre (µg/m³) on Monday, as per the CPCB’s air quality monitor at Vikas Sadan in Sector 11. At the official monitor in Sector 51, the PM 2.5 concentration stood at 540.25µg/m3 on Monday.According to the early air quality warning system for Delhi-NCR, the air quality is likely to improve marginally on account of better ventilation but remain in the lower range of ‘very poor’ category until Wednesday. Subsequently, the air quality is likely to remain largely in the lower range of ‘very poor’ category over the next five days. Further improvement in air quality is expected after February 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/city-air-worsens-due-to-low-wind-speed-101613411691592.html
15-02-2021||Gurugram||Two men attacked by group near Ghata crossing; case filed||Two men were assaulted by unidentified persons near Ghata crossing on Gurugram-Faridabad Road on Friday night. The victims were travelling returning home with their families in two cars, when one got punctured. They got down from their cars and went to a nearby shop, where they were attacked by unidentified men. No arrests were made so far. The incident took place on Friday night, while the case was filed on Sunday, said the police, adding that they are yet a find a reason behind the attack. Victims alleged that they got down and took the punctured tyre to a nearby shop. As they were waiting for the tyre to get fixed, seven to eight unidentified men started abusing and assaulting them all of a sudden. They alleged that they even pelted stones at them, following which they ran towards other side of the road and raised alarm. Pawan Kumar, station house officer(SHO) of Sector 56 police station said few of commuters stopped by the road side and asked them the matter. “The victims narrated their ordeal. Meanwhile the suspects fled the spot fearing police action. The commuters waited until the victims collected their tyre from the repair shop and went on their way,” he said. Jagat Singh, one of the victims said the incident took place ahead of Ghatta crossing around 1.40am. “We went to Faridabad and got first aid. We were frightened as we could not figure out as why would anyone attack us randomly,” he said. The police registered a case under sections 323 (assault), 506(criminal intimidation), and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code at the Sector 56 police station on Sunday. Kumar said they have registered a case against the unidentified persons and are conducting investigation. “We have recorded statement of the victims and are recording statements of the eye witnesses, including the shop keeper. We are also scanning CCTV footage from a few locations nearby to identify the suspects. So far, we are unaware of the reason behind the incident,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/two-men-attacked-by-group-near-ghata-crossing-case-filed-101613411690859.html
15-02-2021||Gurugram||Healthcare workers start receiving second dose of Covid-19 vaccines||The administration of the second dose of Covid-19 vaccines on Monday got off to a slow start, with a 61.5% coverage, according to the district health department data. Of the 608 people who received the first doses of the Covishield and Covaxin vaccines on January 16, only 369 turned up for the second shot after 29 days. Officials expect the footfall to increase on the next day of the vaccination drive, scheduled for February 18. “Healthcare workers are aware of the two-shot regimen against coronavirus disease. They will gradually come for the second dose as there is a window period of four to six weeks to take the second vaccine jab,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer. Both the vaccines — Covaxin and Covishield — comprise two doses, to be administered at a time interval of 28 days. But according to apex drug regulator and experts, the second dose can be given anytime between four and six weeks. Officials said that the inoculation could become challenging for the health department if partially vaccinated healthcare workers have switched jobs in the one-month period. “If a health worker has switched to a facility within the city, then they can easily walk-in at the session site at the facility or they will be informed to visit the previous vaccination site where they took the first dose. There is, however, no clarity regarding inoculation of people who have moved to other districts in Haryana or a different state,” said Dr MP Singh, district immunisation officer. In Gurugram more than 24,000 healthcare workers have already taken the first shot and are registered as partially vaccinated on the Co-WIN, a digital platform handling real time data on vaccination. There are almost 30,000 healthcare workers, after removing duplicity, registered as vaccine beneficiaries on the platform. Since the inoculation process has been slow, the district health department has been holding single-session vaccinations every day for the healthcare staff. On Monday, nine of 50 healthcare workers turned up to take the first shot of their vaccine. With the beginning of second dose drive, it has become a daunting task for the health department to set up vaccination sites at private hospitals where the first round has been conducted, while simultaneously managing vaccination sites for front-line workers. “After the first dose, private and public health facilities have limited targeted beneficiaries to be covered, considering that vaccination sites for healthcare workers will decrease in every hospital. On the other hand, the state health department has not conveyed any specific deadline for completing the vaccination of front-line workers. Therefore, the department will continue with that too,” said Singh. On Monday, as a part of the weekly statewide mega vaccination drive, the health department targeted at least 4,900 front-line workers from the police department, Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG), National Security Guards (NSG), panchayati raj institutions, Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), Indian Reserve Battalion (IRB), Border Security Force (BSF), revenue department and Bhondsi jail. Among the targeted, 2,902 took the first dose of the vaccine. MCG vaccination sites reported a poor footfall, with only 398 of 1,100 targeted staff turning up for the vaccine jab. Similarly, only 253 police personnel of the 1,000 targeted personnel got inoculated. The revenue department reported the least footfall, with only five of 100 taking the shot. “Department heads have been informed about the poor footfall. It is likely that in the vaccination drive to be held on February 18, employees will turn up,” said Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/healthcare-workers-start-receiving-second-dose-of-covid-19-vaccines-101613411634336.html
15-02-2021||Gurugram||New rail line will connect Nuh with Delhi, says Inderjit Singh in Gurugram||Gurugram member of Parliament (MP) Rao Inderjit Singh on Monday announced that a proposal to connect Mewat, Alwar and Delhi has been approved in the railway budget and that work on the same is likely to commence soon.Singh, who is the union minister of state, was interacting with media persons during the inauguration of new facilities at the Gurugram railway station.The demand to connect Mewat with Delhi and the rest of the country through a railway line has been pending for decades and despite repeated promises, this project has remained stuck due to various issues. Mewat residents have alleged that the lack of a railway line has held back the region in terms of development, despite it being located close to Delhi and Gurugram. Addressing a gathering at the Gurugram railway station, Singh said that the proposal to set up a 104-kilometre railway line connecting Delhi, Nuh Firozepur Jhirka and Alwar has been approved in the latest railway budget and provision for funds has also been made. “The proposed railway line in Mewat will ensure all-round development and growth. Several other rail infrastructure projects have also been approved,” he said. On the occasion, the Gurugram MP also inaugurated a foot overbridge and an escalator at the railway station, both of which have been jointly set up by the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram and the Indian Railways. He also, digitally, laid the foundation stone of an underpass at the Jatoli railway crossing. Singh also said that the proposal to electrify the railway line between Farrukhnagar and Garhi Harsaru has also been approved and this will ensure that pollution in the city is reduced considerably. Speaking on the occasion, SC Jain, division railway manager, Delhi, said that in the last three years, 16 underpasses and six railway overbridges have been constructed in the region and more such works are on the anvil in coming years. Senior officials from the Gurugram district administration and MCG were present on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/new-rail-line-will-connect-nuh-with-delhi-says-inderjit-singh-in-gurugram-101613411633772.html
15-02-2021||Gurugram||Govt launches web portal to garner information on unauthorised colonies||The government on Monday launched a new web portal to get information about lack of basic facilities in unauthorised colonies across the state. The web portal — tcpharyana.gov.in/uac — was launched by chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar in Chandigarh to help residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) and developers to share information about the lack of basic amenities and infrastructure in their colonies. A statement issued by the state government said that this information will help authorities in making policy decisions regarding these colonies and will further assist in rendering basic amenities to the illegal colonies. As per the statement, the RWAs/colony developers can submit information regarding the deficient basic amenities by March 31, 2021, on the web portal. Speaking on the occasion, Khattar said that people residing in these colonies have invested their hard-earned money to build their houses without knowing the status of the colonies, due to which they have faced departmental action. He said that state government is committed to providing basic amenities to all its citizens.During the launch of the portal, the officers of Town and Country Planning Department informed that taking cognizance of these illegal colonies, the authorities have taken strict action against such developments. A total of 2,183 FIRs were registered by the police department and 2,430 demolition drives have been conducted throughout the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/govt-launches-web-portal-to-garner-information-on-unauthorised-colonies-101613411632464.html
15-02-2021||Gurugram||Technical glitches hinder online test for students||Online assessments for students in government schools across the city were hampered due to technical glitches on Monday, the first day of app-based assessment for students of classes 3 to 8 and class 11. Officials said that technical hiccups had occurred to a server overload. Mini Satija, primary in-charge, Government Model Sanskriti Senior Secondary School, Sector 43, said that while students had to face intermittent technical issues, they were giving the tests and had time till tomorrow to complete the same. “The response from students in the morning was good but there were technical issues in the afternoon. The site was inaccessible and there were some issues with the formatting of the questions. Some questions were not getting displayed,” said Satija. She said that the department had been apprised about the technical faults that had occurred throughout the day. “We are tracking the progress of students and calling students who are yet to take the test. We had also called some parents to school since they were facing issues with the app,” said Satija. Structured online assessment tests are being conducted for the first time since the Covid-19 pandemic started last year. These tests are being conducted through an app called AVSAR, which will allow students to take the test within 24 hours from its commencement. Teachers said that the tests will give them an idea about the progress made by students during the previous year, since in-person school visits for these students are either restricted or were started only this month. Ashok Kumar, head teacher of primary school, Government Model Senior Secondary School in Sector 4/7, said that the app did not work on Monday and only a few students were able to complete the test. “Very few students were able to complete the test since the app was not working. Some students did not have phones, so we asked to them visit the school. They were able to use the app on our phones,” said Kumar. District elementary education officer Premlata Yadav said that technical issues that had arisen on account of heavy server load were being addressed. “The app server was down since it’s being used across the whole state today. Students have 24 hours to take the test and can attempt it tomorrow,” said Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/technical-glitches-hinder-online-test-for-students-101613411633238.html
15-02-2021||Gurugram||Man booked for killing wife, search on to trace him||A 38-year-old man was booked on Sunday for allegedly murdering his wife at their residence in Sirhaul village. According to the police, the man brutally assaulted his wife in an argument over a suspected extramarital affair and fled the spot. The police identified the suspect as Satish Kumar, who works as a security guard at a private company and was living at a rented accommodation in Sirhaul village for the past three years with his wife, Ruby, 32, and their two children. They belonged to Mainpuri in Uttar Pradesh.Akshay Singh, Ruby’s brother, who lives in Delhi, told the police that he received a call from his sister’s friend who had found her body at the residence. “I came to Gurugram and saw her lying on the bed. I immediately informed the police control room and tried to wake her up but she was dead. Her nose, mouth and ears were bleeding and she had suffered severe injuries all over her body,” he said. According to the police, the neighbours told Singh that Kumar did not go to work on Sunday and that they heard loud arguments. Later, Kumar was also seen allegedly dragging her on the road from a nearby temple and throwing her in a drain near their house.The police said the neighbours, in their statement, said that Kumar was inebriated and had used a rod to assault her. The incident was witnessed by their children as well, the police said. Singh said that according to the neighbours, his brother-in-law dragged her into the house after throwing her in the drain and upon finding her dead, fled the spot. A team from Sector 17/18 police station collected fingerprint samples and other evidence from the spot and sent the body for a post-mortem examination. Sudhir Kumar, station house officer of Sector 17/18 police station, said the woman died due to excessive bleeding and haemorrhage. “She had suffered grave injuries to her head and due to non-timely medical aid, she died,” he said. A case under section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code was registered against Kumar on Sunday. Teams are conducting raids to arrest him, said police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/man-booked-for-killing-wife-search-on-to-trace-him-101613411631668.html
15-02-2021||Gurugram||Toll payment to go digital-only, deployment increased in Kherki Daula||The Gurugram police and highway concessionaire have decided to increase deployment of traffic personnel and marshals at the Kherki Daula toll plaza to prevent jams on Tuesday morning, when the toll goes fully digital and will accept payments only through FASTags.Personnel have also been deployed to guide motorists to FASTag sale point, set up at the spot, in case they don’t have one. The union ministry has made it mandatory for all toll payments to be made through FASTags from February 16.Officials of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), the concessionaire Millennium City Expressway Private Limited (MCEPL) and the police are bracing for heavy congestion as around 20% of the vehicles that pass through are yet to obtain FASTags while 10-15% of them don’t maintain the minimum balance. Besides, several government vehicles also do not have FASTags.MCEPL officials said that this 30% of commuters are responsible for the bottlenecks at the 25-laned toll plaza, as found during the dry runs in the past three to four months.Gurugram police officials also held a detailed meeting with the NHAI and toll concessionaire on Monday on the strategy to manage the situation.On Monday, a large queue was witnessed at the FASTag counter at the toll plaza as commuters ahead of the deadline. A senior MCEPL official said that the sale of SMARTags, which averaged around 200 per day earlier, had increased to 500 over the last three days. “The vehicle owners should buy tags, keep minimum balance in their accounts and the government vehicles should also get these at the earliest. We have deployed marshals and our teams would be ready in the morning for traffic management,” an MCEPL official said, requesting anonymity.The NHAI has also issued directions to concessionaire that motorists without a FASTag must be directed to purchase one on the spot, activate it and then enter the toll plaza. In case this is not possible, the marshals should divert these vehicles to the lane on the extreme left, through which they will be allowed to cross after paying double the toll fee, as per an order issued by Shashi Bhushan, project director, NHAI, Gurugram.The Gurugram police, meanwhile, is taking no chances as any major jam on the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway would impact traffic movement on city roads. The recent spurt in traffic on city roads and the expressway is also a major cause for concern, said police officials.More than 50 traffic police personnel will be deployed to manage and monitor traffic at the toll plaza and a unit is already stationed there to maintain order and ensure smooth traffic movement, said officials.Hitesh Yadav, assistant commissioner of police (ACP), Manesar, said that starting midnight, four personnel will be deployed on each lane to monitor traffic. “The deployment will start by 12 midnight as traffic congestion is expected and most of the commuters are unaware of the implementation of digital payments that will come into force from Tuesday morning,” he said.The police officials also said that the main challenge at the plaza will be posed by locals, who use their ID cards for claiming exemption and hence, have not got the tags for their vehicles.KK Rao, the commissioner of police said that traffic officials and Manesar police has been asked to keep a tab on the traffic movement and to ensure all the commuters are dealt with ease and supported. “We aim to ensure congestion-free movement of vehicles and smooth passage for commuters. Precautions have been taken for the same and the toll staff has also been asked not to land in any argument or scuffle with the commuters. Our teams will keep a close watch on all the lanes,” he said.Rao observed that there are a few RFID readers that are old and slow in processing tags. “We have asked them to either replace the machines or repair them to ensure smooth traffic. Our teams are coordinating with the toll operators and have planned and chalked out plans to guide commuters to get FASTags installed before entering the lanes. We have started awareness on the stretch so that those do not have these digital tags can get them before tonight,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/toll-payment-to-go-digital-only-deployment-increased-in-kherki-daula-101613411630906.html
15-02-2021||Gurugram||Illegal mining rampant, 36 cases registered in January 2021||Rampant illegal mining continues in the ecologically fragile Aravallis in Tauru, Nuh and Faridabad, with the police registering 36 cases in the last month. As per the police data, since December 2019, the police have registered around 1,900 cases and seized over 2,800 vehicles, while the state has levied penalties amounting to ₹67 crore.The police have also come under attack from mining mafia in south Haryana, said officials. In an incident last Saturday, two policemen were injured in Faridabad when they tried to stop vehicles ferrying mining extracts — sand, stones and clay — at Chandpur village. On Sunday, the police arrested three suspects and are conducting raids to arrest five more of the gang.Preet Pal Sangwan, the assistant commissioner of police (crime), who is in charge of cracking down on illegal mining in the region, said that these gangs are so powerful that they attack the police teams and snatch their impounded vehicles. “The mining operations have been taking place in these three districts for over two decades. In November 2019, special teams were formed to crack down on illegal mining operations in the Aravallis and the operations had started in December 2019. Since then, we have been successful in controlling the mining in Nuh, Tauru and Faridabad belt,” he said.In 2020, 1,862 cases were registered against 900 people while in 2019, 185 people were arrested over 150 cases were registered.A total of 2,804 vehicles, including tippers, trucks, tractor-trolleys, and earthmovers, have been seized by the police between December 2019 and February 15, 2021. This number also includes 425 vehicles seized in November— the highest so far. This year, the police have already impounded 123 vehicles.Sangwan said that first-time offenders can get back their vehicles upon paying a fine of ₹4 lakh, while second-time offenders have to pay at least 50% of the showroom value of the vehicle impounded. “Also, the impounded vehicle owner has to pay a royalty — the value of the mineral loaded on the vehicles, either crushed stones or clay sand, — along with ₹10,000 for releasing impounded vehicles,” he said.During the incident that took place last Saturday, two policemen deployed at Kathpula bridge intercepted a vehicle ferrying clay sand on Saturday night, following which the drivers called more people, assaulted the police and fled the spot.A case under sections 307 (attempt to murder), 279 (rash driving or riding on a public way), 336 (act endangering life or personal safety of others), 379 (theft), 411 (dishonestly receiving stolen property) and 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions) of the Indian Penal Code(IPC) at Faridabad police station on Sunday.The three members arrested were identified as Rajpal Singh, Brahm Dutt and Jiten Kumar of Faridabad, and were sent to judicial custody on Monday. Police said that Manjhawali and Chandpur in Faridabad and Aravalli range in Nuh and Tauru are under the scanner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/illegal-mining-rampant-36-cases-registered-in-january-2021-101613411510886.html
15-02-2021||City||NCP expels Kerala legislator Mani Kappan over anti-party activities||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) has expelled Mani C Kappan, its legislator from Kerala on the charges of anti-party activities on Monday. The decision was taken following Kappan’s decision to join the United Democratic Front (UDF) led by Congress.Kappan is a Kerala NCP leader and won the Pala legislative assembly in Kottayam in the state assembly elections held in 2016.The NCP is one of the partners of the ruling Left Democratic Front (LDF) coalition. It has two legislators in the 140-seat assembly.The LDF is led by the Communist Party of India (M) and the Communist Party of India (CPI).A statement released by the NCP on Monday stated, “Sharad Pawar, (NCP president) has expelled Mani C Kappan from the party with immediate effect for anti-party activities.”Ahead of Kerala assembly elections, the LDF had planned to handover Pala, the legislative assembly seat in contention, to the Kerala Congress party, which has recently joined the coalition after breaking its decade-old alliance with the UDF. Kappan was upset with the move. However, it is said that the UDF would have fielded Kappan for the seat.The former NCP leader had claimed the support of seven district presidents and nine office bearers of the NCP and had decided to part ways with the party and the LDF.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ncp-expels-kerala-legislator-mani-kappan-over-anti-party-activities-101613411214201.html
15-02-2021||Gurugram||Proposed petrol pump on Aravalli land in violation of environment ministry norms, rules NGT||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has ruled that land allotted for a proposed petrol pump in Chakkarpur village violates norms set by the union environment ministry. Upholding the status of the land parcel — allotted by the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) to a public sector oil and gas company — as Aravalli forest, the NGT has directed the district administration to “enforce the law” in the matter and file an action taken report.This development comes on the back of a petition filed by a city-based NGO, Manav Awaaj Trust, in January. The petition, a copy of which is with HT, alleges that the MCG’s allotment of land for the project amounts to an “unlawful diversion of forest land for non-forestry purposes”.As per revenue records, reviewed by HT, the land in question is also categorised as “gair mumkin pahad” or uncultivable hilly lands. The petition also references a letter from the district forest department to the deputy commissioner, dated July 29, 2020, pointing out this violation.The letter from the forest department to the district administration states that the land “comes under the Aravalli plantation zone. This zone is considered as a forest as per the Supreme Court (SC). Any non-forestry activity conducted in the forest area without the permission of MoEF&CC is a violation of the Forest Conservation Act, 1980 and orders of the SC.”The letter further states that the implementing agency must first take permission from the Centre before proceeding with the project.Hearing the matter on February 9, the NGT noted, “In spite of the said stand of the forest department, the MCG has failed to take the remedial action to enforce the law. Use of forest land for non-forest purposes is also in violation of the ministry of environment, forest and climate change (MoEF&CC) notification dated 07.05.1992 with regard to the Aravalli range”. A copy of the order was shared with HT on Monday.Despite the current laws, the MCG had, on March 15, 2019, leased out a 150-square metre land parcel in Chakkarpur to a private sector entity for a period of 30 years, with a payable rent of ₹2.25 lakh per month (subject to a 25% increase every three years). The petrol pump, however, is yet to come up.Abhay Jain, spokesperson, Manav Awaaj Trust said, “We took the matter to NGT after the government did not take any action despite repeated requests to not go ahead with the project on forest land. The NGT has now taken cognizance of the issue of land leased by the municipal corporation to install petrol pumps in an area of the forest department in Gurugram.”Vinay Pratap Singh, municipal commissioner, Gurugam, did not respond to requests for comment on Monday. However, speaking to HT regarding the matter in December last year, Singh had said, “We have received representation regarding the apprehensions related to grant of lease of land for fuel retail outlet (petrol pump). Environmental concerns about forest and Aravalli notification have been raised, citing various environmental regulations and orders of courts. We are examining the case to clear all apprehensions before moving forward with the lease. The applicant will have to get all environmental and forest clearances from concerned government department before getting permission from MCG.” On January 16, 2021, Gurugram MLA Sudhir Singla also wrote to the principal secretary of Urban Local Bodies department, Haryana government, requesting cancellation of the land allotment.Singla, in the letter, wrote, “…The allotted land is a gair mumkin pahar and forms part of the National Conservation Zone and the protected forest area. There is even a restriction on any commercial activity by the hon’ble high court on such land... It is therefore requested that the allotment of the land be cancelled so that there is no further damage to the forest area…”When contacted on Monday, RS Dhull, divisional forest officer of Gurugram, said, “I will not be able to comment on this matter as I am yet to read the NGT order.”Yash Garg, deputy commissioner of Gurugram, did not respond to calls and messages on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/proposed-petrol-pump-on-aravalli-land-in-violation-of-environment-ministry-norms-rules-ngt-101613411390921.html
15-02-2021||Jaipur||'Panel finds irregularities, 267 mines were allocated flouting norms': Official||A three-member committee constituted by the state government on the direction of Rajasthan High Court has found irregularities in the allotment of mines during the previous government’s tenure, said an official familiar with the matter.“267 mines were allocated in a hurry by flouting norms between November 1, 2014, and January 10, 2015. In 2018, the then Lokayukta SS Kothari had also found the irregularity in the allotment,” said the official who did not want to be named.The official said that the committee has submitted the report to the state government.The multi-crore mining scam had come to light in September 2015, following which eight officials of the mining department, including the then principal secretary of mines Ashok Singhvi, were arrested by the Anti Corruption Bureau (ACB).Also read: Disengagement in eastern Ladakh’s Pangong Tso in full swing, may be over soonThe revelation was made following a tip-off stating that a middleman had received a bribe of ₹2.5 crore from an Udaipur-based chartered accountant on behalf of the state officials to allow quarrying at mines in Chittorgarh to a mine owner named Sher Khan.In October 2015, the state government had revoked 601 mine allotments following the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) pointed out irregularities in the allotment.In August 2017, the High Court had ordered the state government to constitute a committee comprising at least three senior officials, not below the rank of the secretary of the state.On the High Court’s direction, the state government constituted a three-member committee to evaluate the mine lease decisions taken between November 1, 2014, and January 2015. These included 548 Letter of Intents (LoIs) and 53 licences||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/panel-finds-irregularities-267-mines-were-allocated-flouting-norms-official-101613408040661.html
15-02-2021||Pune||60-year-old killed in hit and run in Sahakarnagar||An unidentified two-wheeler rider was booked for causing the death of a 60-year-old man in Sahakarnagar, Pune on Sunday. The incident happened at 9am on Sunday. The deceased was identified as Appaji Kondiba Jangavli (60), a resident of Gawaliwada Sarang society in Sahakarnagar, Pune. A complaint in the matter was lodged by his son Gotiram Jabgavli (33) who drives an auto-rickshaw for a living. The father-son duo was walking towards the parked auto of the complainant on the road in front of Shinde high school when a speeding two-wheeler ran over the elderly man and fled the spot. A case under Sections 304(a) (causing death due to negligence) and 279 (rash driving or riding on a public way) of the Indian Penal Code along with Sections 184, 119/177 of the Motor Vehicle Act was registered at Dattawadi police station. Police sub-inspector R Pawar of Dattawadi police station is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/60yearold-killed-in-hit-and-run-in-sahakarnagar-101613410671621.html
15-02-2021||Other||PMC to recover property tax rebate amount from those failing to comply with eco-friendly measures||PUNE The civic body will discontinue property tax rebate for owners who are not complying with eco-friendly measures like installing vermiculture, solar water heating or rainwater harvesting systems.Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) will recover the rebate amount in the property tax bills of 2021-22, said officials.Dr Kunal Khemnar, additional municipal commissioner, said, “We have decided to recover the amount of rebate from property holders who had taken discount in property tax bills in 2019-20 and failed to keep the eco-friendly projects functional. We will mention it in property tax bills which will be issued in March.”“In the next year’s property owners who failed to implement rain harvesting, vermiculture and solar panel systems will get bills without the rebate,” he added.PMC introduced rain harvesting, vermiculture and solar panel installation under the eco-housing project scheme. The scheme was introduced in 2008. The civic body is giving a five to ten per cent rebate on property tax for such owners. Till date, 1,0,1022 property owners are part of such scheme and are availing rebate in property tax.During an inspection in December 2020, the corporation found that 3,081 of these properties are not maintaining the eco-freindly projects or they are not in working conditions.Last month, the property tax department sent notices to 3,081 such property holders and informed them about discontinuing the rebate.Every year, property tax bills are delivered to owners in March-April via post.At present, PMC has a total of 10.81 lakh properties in the city out of that, around eight lakh are residential properties, commercial properties numbers are more than one lakh and open spaces are 28,755. Other categories include 14, 623 properties.Property tax is a levy issued by a government on a person’s real or personal property. The property is assessed to give it a value, and then that value is taxed. The amount of tax owed is determined by multiplying the fair market value of the property by the current tax rate.Installing rainwater harvesting, vermiculture and solar water heater systems.Installing rainwater harvesting, vermiculture and solar water heater systemsYear== Number of properties2015-16 ==46,0262016-17==57,0652017-18==68,6372018-19==74,3602019-20==86,8362020-21==1,0,1022( Source: Environment status report 2019-20)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmc-to-recover-property-tax-rebate-amount-from-those-failing-to-comply-with-eco-friendly-measures-101613410672110.html
15-02-2021||Pune||Petrol prices hit record high at ₹95.10 per litre||Petrol prices in Pune hit a record high on February 15, at ₹95.10 per litre. Diesel prices also soared to a record rate of ₹84.68 per litre in the city. Fuel prices have been on the rise after February 9. The rate for power petrol in the city reached ₹98.75 per litre and there is anticipation that if the price hike continues, power petrol will cross ₹100 per litre rate in a few days. The highest cost of petrol in the state is recorded in Parbhani at ₹97.38 per litre. The rate of “speed petrol” has already gone above ₹100 in Parbhani. The rate of petrol with additives reached ₹100.16 on Sunday. “The rates have been steadily increasing for the past few days in the city. I will be talking to the petroleum minister soon,” said Ali Daruwala, spokesperson, All India Petrol Dealers Association. On February 5, the price of petrol crossed the mark of ₹93.14 per litre in Pune, the highest recorded in the city. On August 16, 2020, petrol prices were at ₹87.05 and diesel prices at ₹78.67 per litre. After price fluctuations in the following months, on December 7, 2020, the petrol price reached ₹90 and diesel price, ₹78.97 per litre. After remaining steady almost for a month, petrol and diesel prices soared on January 6, 2021, and reached ₹90.25 per litre and ₹79.25 per litre, respectively. The prices have been on the rise since then. The continuous increase in the petrol and diesel prices has started to reflect on the market. “As transportation expenditure has increased, there has been a 10% increase in the prices of essential commodities such as rice, oil and sugar,” said Popatlal Ostwal, president, Poona Merchant Chambers. “There has been no relief in terms of petrol prices. It is becoming difficult for common people to manage their budget,” said Sudhir Parkhi, a resident of Warje, who has to travel every day to the city for work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/petrol-prices-hit-record-high-at-rs-95-10-per-litre-101613410612063.html
15-02-2021||Pune||Truck carrying 939 boxes of alcohol seized||The state excise department team intercepted a truck trying to transport alcohol from Goa through Baramati on Sunday. The driver and the cleaner on the truck were arrested by the excise department. The two arrested were remanded to six days in police custody by a local court. The 10-wheel truck was registered in Udaipur, Rajasthan and was found near an Indian Oil petrol pump in Pahunewadi village, Baramati. “The 939 boxes of alcohol were found to be worth ₹44,68,272, the 20 tin containers were found to be worth ₹20,000, while the truck was found to be worth ₹23,00,000,” said Prasad Surve, divisional deputy commissioner, state excise. The alcohol boxes were hidden behind layers of tin containers of 200 liters, according to the police. The boxes contained multiple bottles of whiskey and rum of foreign brands. The boxes had tags of “produced in Goa” on them while the driver and cleaner did not have any permit to transport the alcohol.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/truck-carrying-939-boxes-of-alcohol-seized-101613410610874.html
15-02-2021||Pune||We should prefer a hybrid model of teaching: Nitin Karmalkar||From Monday onwards, universities and colleges across the state were allowed to reopen for offline classes. HT spoke to Savitribai Phule Pune University’s (SPPU) vice-chancellor Prof Nitin Karmalkar about restarting SPPU and its affiliated colleges. From today, universities and colleges across the state is reopening for physical classes, how do you look at it? The decision is welcomed, and it was expected that colleges will now start soon. The teaching in colleges is complete and students are now waiting for examinations. Now, the other newly started courses must begin offline classes, therefore it is a welcome step that after around a year, students will be back on campus. Peer learning is more important than the online learning mode, as you cannot have control over many things in online mode. What challenges do you expect now while reopening the university and colleges? There are some challenges, the reason being students coming from the outside state or those who are going to stay at hostels. UGC guidelines suggest that hostels should not be allocated on sharing basis, so that is going to be a big sort of stumbling block in bringing all 100 per cent of students to campus. At the same time, Covid is not yet gone completely so there are some concerns. Parents might hesitate to send their children to campus or to colleges. That is what I have been asking, we should go more or less for a mixed-model or hybrid model of teaching. In this you should not bring 100 per cent students on campus, instead may be in batches and that liberty is given to the colleges as such. What would your emphasis be from now onwards going forward in this academic year? Our emphasis would be to bring students initially for practical purposes in batches as the practical portion has been missed out completely during Covid-19. There cannot be a match for practical courses in online mode, therefore initially we should concentrate more on the practical and then bring in students in batches to classroom lectures in batches, maybe of 20 each batch. When things normalise then we can bring in more students to the campus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/we-should-prefer-a-hybrid-model-of-teaching-nitin-karmalkar-101613410551502.html
15-02-2021||Kolkata||Rice, dal, egg curry for ₹5, Mamata’s Maa scheme ahead of state polls||Ahead of the assembly elections in the state, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday virtually launched the 'Maa' scheme under which her government would provide a meal at a nominal cost of ₹5 mainly to poor people. They will get a platter of rice, dal, a vegetable and egg curry for ₹5. "The government will bear a subsidy of ₹15 (per plate) while people will get it at ₹5," Banerjee said. Self-help groups will operate the kitchens from 1 pm to 3 pm every day and such kitchens will be set up everywhere in the state gradually, the chief minister said."I will go and taste it one day," Banerjee said. People will get the meal on a first-come-first-serve basis."This is a unique idea. We had announced this scheme in the budget and managed to launch it within eight days," she said thanking officials of various departments for making it possible within such a short time.The state government has allotted ₹1,00-crore for the scheme, said Banerjee who is also the Trinamool Congress supremo. "It started on an experimental basis and there may be initial hiccups," Banerjee said.On the first day, Maa kitchens started functioning at a few places in Kolkata and districts such as Malda, Dakshin Dinajpur, Paschim Medinipur and Howrah.The ruling Trinamool Congress had in September last year launched a similar initiative named -- 'Didir Rannaghar' in the state to provide meals at ₹5 to migrant workers who lost their jobs during the lockdown.The assembly election is due in the state in April- May.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/mamata-launches-scheme-to-provide-meal-at-rs-5-for-needy-101613409356720.html
15-02-2021||Delhi||AAP govt to observe first anniversary of its third term on Tuesday||The AAP government, which took the reins of Delhi at the onset of Covid-19 pandemic last year, will observe the first anniversary of its third term in power on Tuesday.Party convener Arvind Kejriwal took oath of chief minister for the third term on February 16, days before massive communal violence broke out in northeast Delhi.Sources in the Delhi government, however, said the first anniversary will be a "low key affair" with no event planned to mark the occasion due to Covid-19 pandemic.After taking the reins of the national capital, the new government in Delhi had its task cut out as it dealt first with the riots that claimed over 50 lives and led to extensive damage to property, and then Covid-19 pandemic.As matters worsened with the Centre declaring a nationwide lockdown in the third week of March last year and galloping coronavirus infections as well as rising number deaths in coming months, the Kejriwal government came out with "Delhi Model" comprising home isolation, plasma therapy and plasma banks to tackle the burgeoning pandemic situation.The Delhi government also launched a massive relief operation, providing food and dry ration amid an exodus of migrant workers from the city, and then providing financial assistance to vulnerable sections like construction workers and auto drivers.A survey conducted by community social media platform LocalCircles claimed that 56 per cent of Delhi residents approve the one year performance of AAP government 2.0, mainly for "overcoming challenges" induced by Covid-19.It further claimed that 52 per cent residents of Delhi approved of the Kejriwal government's lockdown and 'unlock' management, Covid-19 testing and reporting, and arrangement of hospital beds for coronavirus patients.From a high of 8,600 infections and 131 deaths on single days during third wave of the pandemic in November, the situation improved in the coming months.Delhi government's Health bulletin reported 141 fresh Covid-19 cases and two deaths due to the virus on Monday.The government was also the first in the country to announce financial assistance of ₹one crore to the dependants of its employees who succumbed on duty due to Covid-19.Besides Covid-19 pandemic management, the government also came out with ambitious policies to make Delhi a hub of service and hi-tech sectors and a leader in adoption of electric vehicles.In November last year, Kejriwal announced that only service and hi-tech industries will be allowed in new industrial parks and the manufacturing units in existing ones will be encouraged to make the switch. The government has also started work on an industrial park to be set up at Ranikhera.Even as the city was in the grip of the pandemic, Kejriwal government launched the Delhi Electric Vehicle Policy in August 2020, aiming to make the national capital a global leader in adoption of pollution-free vehicles.In the field of public transport, the government issued work orders in December 2020, paving way for procurement of 1,000 buses by Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) after a gap of nearly 10 years.The government also started work on its other schemes including redesigning of city roads and doorstep delivery of ration.Despite sharp drop in revenue due to the pandemic, the government continued its flagship scheme of free power and water supply, benefitting 38.23 lakh consumers with zero electricity bills and 13.66 lakh with zero water bills, as per latest official figures.However, there were some areas including water supply, air pollution, 'Jahan Jhuggi Whan Makan' and procurement of electric buses where the government faced flack from its political adversaries BJP and the Congress.The LocalCircles survey based on over 54,000 responses of Delhiites, claimed 37 per cent respondents found "some improvement" in the water supply situation and 35 per cent approved Delhi Government's efforts to improve air quality in the last one year, said Sachin Taparia, founder and chairman of LocalCircles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/aap-govt-to-observe-first-anniversary-of-its-third-term-on-tuesday-101613407009514.html
15-02-2021||Chandigarh||AAP demands resignation of Punjab CM over 'violence' during civic polls||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Monday demanded resignation of Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, accusing him of trying to "loot" votes through "violence and booth capturing" by his Congress party workers during the recent civic elections."The polling day on February 14 was a black day for democracy in Punjab," AAP legislator Aman Arora said."It was shameful as Captain Amarinder, being the home minister of the state, tried to loot the elections and murdered the democracy with the help of his goons,” he alleged.Arora sought immediate resignation of Singh "for failing in maintaining law and order in the state."Over 70 per cent voting was recorded in the elections to over hundred civic bodies in Punjab on Sunday amid stray incidents of clashes at some places.The Opposition parties on Sunday had accused the ruling Congress of “capturing booths” and indulging in violence.Arora on Monday alleged that the state election commission and police had worked as the “wings” of the Congress on the polling day.Arora claimed that Congress “goons” had indulged in "bogus" voting in Samana and Rajpura.He also alleged that in Patti, AAP volunteer Manveer Singh was shot at by Congress workers.Arora further alleged that in Bathinda, Abohar, Fazilka and Ferozepur, Congress “goons” were allowed to cast “bogus votes.”Meanwhile, AAP MLA Baljinder Kaur in Amritsar said party leader Laljit Bhullar was detained after allegedly being assaulted by police in Patti during polling on Sunday.“He was not released until the end of voting. The police did this for the purpose of capturing polling booths by the Congress workers,” she alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/aap-demands-resignation-of-punjab-cm-over-violence-during-civic-polls-101613404875889.html
15-02-2021||Pune||Light rains forecast for Pune on February 18||Pune: Light rainfall is expected in Pune city on February 18, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). The weather department noted that along with rainfall in central Maharashtra, parts of Vidarbha and Marathwada may also experience rainfall till February 19. Pune on Monday reported day temperature at 32.6 degrees Celsius and night temperature at 14.6 degrees Celsius. Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather forecasting department at IMD Pune, said that the weather conditions have started to change from on Monday (February 15). “By Monday, there were cloudy skies later in the evening. On February 17 and February 18, there are chances of thundery activity during the afternoon. From February 17, there are chances of traces of rain. Whereas, on February 18, light rains are predicted in the city,” said Kashyapi. He said that the day temperature will be around 33 degrees Celsius and night temperature around 15 to 17 degrees Celsius in the city this week. Kashyapi said that three weather systems are responsible for the rainfall forecast in the state. “There is an upper air cyclonic circulation over north central Maharashtra. And one trough line from the upper cyclonic circulation to Kerala and another trough line from west Rajasthan to central Madhya Pradesh. These systems are governing the weather in the state. In the coming few days there will be a huge interaction of winds over Vidarbha and Marathwada which will result in rainfall and hailstorms in the area,” he said. He said that chances of hailstorm are high on February 18 at places like Dhule Jalgaon and Nashik. “Chances of hailstorm are likely at Solapur, Latur and Osmanabad on February 19. Parts of Vidarbha may experience hailstorms on February 16 and February 17. The rainfall activity will reduce from February 19 onwards in the state,” said Kashyapi. “It is likely that there will be cooler weather in the state in the next seven days. After February 20, there may be other weather systems due to which colder days cannot be experienced,” said Kashyapi. The highest maximum temperature reported in Maharashtra on Monday was at 35.3 degrees Celsius at Brahmapuri. And the lowest minimum temperature reported in the state was at 12.4 degrees Celsius at Gondia. No more winter chills “Winter is almost over. There are not many chances of a drop in temperature. After the rainfall spell in the state, there will be a western disturbance system which reduces the possibility of drop in temperature. During the rainfall spell, the temperature may not drop at all resulting in no cooler vibes,” said Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather forecasting department at IMD Pune. IMD forecast Chances of traces of rainfall in Pune city on February 17 Chances of light rains in Pune city on February 18 Hailstorms likely at parts of Vidarbha on February 16 and February 17 Hailstorms likely at Solapur, Latur and Osmanabad on February 19 The rainfall activity to reduce from February 19 onwards in the state *Source: IMD||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/light-rains-forecast-for-pune-on-february-18-101613405450550.html
15-02-2021||City||Manipur's iconic women-run market reopens after nearly 11 months||After closing down for almost 11 months, Nupi Keithel, one of Asia’s largest women-run markets, located in Manipur’s state capital, was formally re-opened to resume its normal business on Monday.Manipur chief minister N Biren Singh-led cabinet ministers and MLAs were present during the formal re-opening function of the market in Imphal.The Manipur government announced the closure of Nupi Keithel, which has three different iconic market buildings, on March 21, 2020, as a preventive measure amid the Covid-19 pandemic.Speaking on the occasion, CM Singh announced that women vendors of Nupi Keithels would be exempted from a vendor license fee for the year. “The government took the decision considering the hardship faced by the women vendors during the Covid-19 pandemic as the markets remained closed for nearly a year,” he added.According to sources, more than 3,500 license holding women vendors sit at three Nupi Keithel market buildings in Imphal.The chief minister said that the pandemic had made humans learn a lesson about the importance of preserving nature. He called for a change of mindset and move towards a clean environment to prevent mankind from other such outbreaks in future.Also read: Disengagement in eastern Ladakh’s Pangong Tso in full swing, may be over soonThe CM also urged the officials of urban development authority to supply garbage bags to women vendors so that garbage and spoiled vegetables could be put to the same and collected for proper disposal. Such conduct would help maintain cleanliness in and around the market places and prevent the women vendors from certain diseases, he added.Biren also asked the women vendors to allot a day in a month for the maintenance and cleaning work of the market areas.Many women vendors at the Nupi Keithel also expressed their happiness over the reopening of the market. “With the re-opening of the market today, we prayed that we lead a better life with our respective families,” said Kh Mangi, a functionary of a women’s vendor body at Nupi Keithel.Sharing a similar sentiment, another woman vendor Aribam Sunita, who sells locally-made blouses in the market, said, “We are so happy about the reopening of the market.”During the market re-opening function, the CM also announced the new names of the three Nupi Keithel (women market) buildings as Leimarel Sidabi Ima Keithel for market number 1, Imoinu Ima Keithel for market number 2 and Phouoibi Ima Keithel for market number 3.Last month, an independent researcher named Serto Tondana Kom in Imphal had even claimed that the shutting down of Nupi Keithel might have caused a minimum loss of ₹3,879 crore to vendors in the last 10 months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/manipurs-iconic-women-run-market-reopens-after-nearly-11-months-101613404140575.html
15-02-2021||Pune||BJP decides to continue PMC general body meet online; Oppn parties cry foul||PUNE: Ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has decided to corner the corporators of opposition parties on the issue of holding the Pune Municipal Corporation general body meetings in the presence of elected members. The BJP corporators said that as the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government has not yet given clear instructions on holding the meet offline, the next general body meeting would be held virtual. Last week, the Nationalist Congress Party, the Congress and the Shiv Sena corporators had staged an agitation at the mayor’s office raising slogans against the BJP for not holding the general body meeting in person despite the state government’s order. Ganesh Bidkar, leader of the house in PMC, said on Monday, “The Maharashtra government’s disaster management department gave the permission to hold the general body meeting offline on February 8, but mentioned to convene it for only one day and the orders were given only for Pune Municipal Corporation. We are seeking the state government’s okay for holding the general body meeting in person. As no permission has been received from the state authorities yet, we have decided to hold the meeting online on February 16.” According to Bidkar, many developmental projects in the city are pending as the general body meetings have not been convened. “Almost 300 proposals are pending. If the general body does not meet and reject the hike in property tax before February 20, residents will end up paying the rate as per the proposed tax hike,” the BJP leader said, adding that with no clear instructions coming from the state government, PMC will go ahead and conduct general body meetings online. The BJP blamed the opposition parties who staged an agitation at the mayor’s office for failing to get the permission from the state government to hold GB offline. “Hence, the February 8 dharna was just a drama by corporators of the opposition parties,” he said. Meanwhile, Congress leader Aba Bagul said, “It is our demand that the BJP should convene general body meeting offline. The state government gave instructions to start the meeting in person, but the BJP said that it needs instructions from the urban development department.” The PMC is yet to hold any general body meeting in the presence of all corporators since the beginning of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/bjp-decides-to-continue-pmc-general-body-meet-online-oppn-parties-cry-foul-101613402150416.html
15-02-2021||Pune||“Kanada Kafila” workshop to be main feature of “Vasantotsav 2021”||Pune: Special workshop “Kanada Kafila” under its “Vasantotsav Vimarsh” will be the highlight of “Vasantotsav” this year. The cultural event is organised on the occasion of late classical singer Vasantrao Deshpande’s birth centenary celebrations by Dr Vasantrao Deshpande Pratishthan. The event will be held at Jyotsna Bhole Sabhagruha, Hirabaug, from 5:30 pm to 9 pm on Thursday (February 18). The workshop will be open for all on first come, first served basis. Offering the audience a feast of diverse music this year, the 14th edition of “Vasantotsav” will be held from February 19 to February 21. Speaking about the “Vasantotsav Vimarsh” initiative, Rahul Deshpande, classical singer and grandson of Vasantrao Deshpande, said, “Every year, a lecture on music or a workshop is organised during “Vasantotsav Vimarsh”. This year, it will be “Kanada Kafila”. All music students, artists and aficionados will get free access with hygiene and safety precautions in place.” The special workshop will showcase varieties of Raga Kanada. The first part will consist of a lecture with guided listening session by renowned musicologist Chaitanya Kunte. In the second part, Pt Sudheer Pote, a veteran vocalist of Jaipur Gharana, will demonstrate some rare varieties and Bandish in Kanada Ang Ragas. He will be accompanied by Milind Pote (tabla) and Saumitra Kshirsagar (harmonium). PIFF in online, theatre format The online registration for the upcoming 19th Pune International Film Festival (PIFF), which will be held from March 4 to March 11, will begin from Tuesday (February 16). Film enthusiasts will also be able to do spot registration beginning Thursday (February 25). This year, the annual film festival organised by Pune Film Foundation and Government of Maharashtra will be held online and in theatres and the registration will be different for both the platforms. The registration fee for participation in online festival will be Rs500 and 26 selected films will be shown. Those visiting theatres will be able to see about 150 films by paying ₹600. This year, the films will be shown on seven screens at three venues, including PVR on Senapati Bapat road, National Film Archive of India (NFAI) on Law College road and Inox in Camp. The online registration will be available on www.piffindia.com from February 16, while spot registration will be done at the screening venues, including PVR, NFAI and Inox, from 11 am to 7.30 pm from February 25 onwards, according to the organisers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/kanada-kafila-workshop-to-be-main-feature-of-vasantotsav-2021-101613398070075.html
15-02-2021||Dehradun||Agitators' shower flowers on pilgrims in a unique way to protest Mahakumbh SOP||By Sandeep RawatIn a unique way of symbolic protest, Haridwar's local traders are welcoming pilgrims by showering flowers on them. This is being done to register their displeasure on restrictions imposed on pilgrims and tourists for Mahakumbh fair, starting next month in Haridwar.Traders, local priests, Ganga Sabha, hoteliers, guest house/lodge owners, travel agencies operators and seers are opposing the strict guidelines set under the standard operating procedures (SOP) set by the Union ministry of health and Uttarakhand government respectively for Mahakumbh.To raise this issue, small scale traders, including vendors, are also resorting to showering flowers on pilgrims, signifying their importance in the context of Kumbh fair as well as for traders.State president of Small-Scale Trader's Association, Sanjay Chopra, said that both pilgrims and traders wait for 12 years for Mahakumbh fair and not allowing them to visit Haridwar during the Kumbh is not a fair decision."From a spiritual, religious and economic point of view, Kumbh fair is of immense importance. When there will be no pilgrims owing to tough SOP guidelines and Covid-19 protocols what will be the Kumbh scenario?" said Chopra.The Ganga Sabha, which manages the affairs of the sanctum sanctorum of Brahamkund, Har-Ki-Pauri, is also openly opposing the SOP laid down for Mahakumbh.Also read: ‘Not subject to removal’ - Twitter on Haryana minister Vij’s tweet on Disha Ravi"When Union government has already announced the lifting of lockdown, Covid-19 positive cases are well below 12,000-10,000 mark, vaccination is being done, public places are open for all and sundry then why is a negative Covid-19 report mandatory for pilgrims for Kumbh fair?" said Ganga Sabha president Pradeep Jha.The Haridwar Hotel Association and the Budget Hotel Association have termed the restrictions for Kumbh-bound pilgrims and tourists as “tyrant orders”."In the name of Covid-19 restrictions and precautions, the government, the mela and the local administration are hurting sentiments of people. Kumbh fair is being held since ancient times. Just in Haridwar, a negative Covid-19 report has been made mandatory but elsewhere in the country no such restriction is there for any such event," said Haridwar Hotel Association president Ashutosh Sharma.Traders are demanding compensation if the government goes ahead with the Mahakumbh SOP."Traders wait for twelve years to earn something but in the last year, owing to the Covid pandemic, we have already suffered a lot. Now we had high hopes with the Mahakumbh but the government doesn't seem to be interested in organising the mega fair in a grand way," said district president of Mahanagar Vyapar Mandal, Sunil Shetty.Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad president Mahant Narendra Giri said that it seems the government and the mela administration aren't interested in organising a full-fledged Kumbh. Why are the new guidelines being imposed every now and then? he questioned.While urban development minister Madan Kaushik said that the SOP guidelines are to be adhered to, he added that the government is committed to hosting a grand and spiritual Kumbh fair with almost all permanent works completed for the fair.He added that amidst the SOP guidelines and Covid-19 safety norms too, it is possible to organise a grand Mahakumbh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/agitators-shower-flowers-on-pilgrims-in-a-unique-way-to-protest-mahakumbh-sop-101613395373724.html
15-02-2021||Kolkata||Mamata Banerjee slams BJP over Disha Ravi's arrest||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday condemned the arrest of 22-year-old climate activist Disha Ravi and said the BJP government should first take action against its own IT cell which, she alleged, is spreading fake news.She also came down heavily on the BJP government at the Centre for the rise in the prices of LPG and fuel."Arresting anybody who is protesting against government policies is not unacceptable. The BJP should first take action against its own IT Cell members who are spreading fake news. Why two sets of rules ?" Banerjee told a press conference here.Banerjee alleged that the IT cell members of the saffron party are calling up people posing as TMC members and are maligning her party."I have asked Kolkata police to look into it," she said."Besides, every day LPG and fuel prices are going up and the Centre is not bothered about it. It is only interested in making false promises ahead of elections," she said.West Bengal Assembly poll is due in April-May and BJP which made deep inroads in the politically polarised state is looking to deseat the 10-year-old TMC regime in the state.Disha Ravi, a 22-year-old climate activist was arrested from Bengaluru recently for allegedly sharing with Greta Thunberg the "toolkit" related to the farmer''s protest against the Centre's agri laws, police said on Sunday.Delhi Police claimed that Disha Ravi, who was arrested by a cyber cell team of the force on Saturday, was an editor of the "toolkit Google doc" and the "key conspirator" in the document's formulation and dissemination.Thunberg, a teen climate activist, had shared the "toolkit" to lend her support to the farmers'' agitation against the three farm reform laws. In the document, various urgent actions, including creating a Twitter storm and protesting outside Indian embassies, were listed which were needed to be taken to support the farmers'' protest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/mamata-banerjee-slams-bjp-over-disha-ravi-s-arrest-101613390496041.html
15-02-2021||Mumbai||‘Statement distorted, I said BJP should be...’: Maharashtra home minister Deshmukh on probe into celebrities’ tweets||Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh issued a clarification on Monday over his statement where he had ordered an investigation into tweets put out by Indian celebrities over the ongoing farmers’ agitation. Deshmukh said his statement was distorted adding that it is the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP’s) information technology (IT) cell which should be investigated in this matter.Prominent figures such as cricketer Sachin Tendulkar, singer Lata Mangeshkar and Bollywood actor Akshay Kumar among others had tweeted on the protest against the Centre’s three new farm laws. This comes after the movement gained international attention on February 3 with international celebrities such as Rihanna and Greta Thunberg taking to social media to express their support for the farmers, who have been camping at several border points of Delhi since November 26 last year.“My statement was distorted. I said the BJP’s IT cell should be investigated. The BJP’s IT cell chief and names of 12 influencers have come out in probe,” Deshmukh had said while speaking to reporters on Monday.On February 8, the Maharashtra home minister had ordered the state’s intelligence department to investigate allegations that some celebrities were pressured to tweet on the farmers’ protest. Earlier, the Congress, which is the ruling coalition in Maharashtra had sought an investigation into BJP’s alleged involvement with the tweets of such celebrities, some of which have been conferred with the Bharat Ratna.My statement was distorted. I said BJP's IT cell should be investigated,BJP's IT cell chief&names of 12 influencers have come out in probe:Maharashtra Home Min Anil Deshmukh on his earlier statement on probe in tweets of celebrities in response to int'l celebrities over farm laws pic.twitter.com/X4QU8GE9v2The Congress party’s state unit spokesperson Sachin Sawant said on February 8 that the probe was being demanded to check whether they (celebrities) were ‘arm-twisted’ by the BJP. “Demanded investigation of BJP connection into the tweets of celebrities and security to be provided to our national heroes if needed & find out whether these celebrities were arm-twisted by BJP,” Sawant had tweeted.Also Watch| Did Akshay, Tendulkar & others tweet under BJP pressure? Maha govt to probe﻿The BJP, which is the main opposition party in Maharashtra, criticised the investigation and expressed anger over the allegations made. Party leader and former chief minister of Maharashtra Devendra Fadnavis questioned whether the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) had lost all its senses and added that it was crucial to probe the “mental state” of those who demanded the probe and those who ordered it.Meanwhile, another party leader Ashish Shelar said last week, “I doubt if Maharashtra home minister thinks before speaking. Sachin Tendulkar and Lata Mangeshkar are not just celebrities, they’re Bharat Ratna recipients. We condemn any inquiry into their chats. We want to ask Uddhav Thackeray ji, ‘Is he in sound mind?’”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/statement-distorted-i-said-bjp-should-be-maharashta-home-minister-deshmukh-101613390287818.html
15-02-2021||Pune||Minister orders PMC, dist admin to form committee to solve Bhide wada issue||Maharashtra state cabinet minister Chhagan Bhujbal has instructed the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and Pune district administration to resolve the pending issue of Bhide wada by forming a committee after former Bhide Wada Smarak Samiti held the state government responsible for delaying the issue.The first school for girls was started in Pune at Bhide wada on January 1, 1848, by Mahatma Jyotiba Phule and his wife Savitribai Phule. The first girls’ school was named after the owner of the wada, Tatyarao Bhide, who was a social worker. Bhide wada is a private owner’s property.According to Bhide Wada Smarak Samiti, the school was shut down more than 15 years. To preserve it, Bhide Wada Smarak Samiti appealed to the Bombay High Court in 2010 to declare it a national monument, but the issue is pending in court.Minister Bhujbal organised a meeting at Mantralya in Mumbai to discuss issue of turning Bhide wada into a memorial. PMC additional municipal commissioner took part in meeting through video conferencing along with Pune district land estate officer on Thursday.Rubal Agrawal, additional municipal commissioner said, “The issue is sub judice. Tenants have approached the court. State cabinet minister Chhagan Bhujbal instructed us PMC and district administration to call meeting of tenants and convince them and to settle the issue outside the court.”“Minister also instructed us to form a committee of state cultural department officials, state urban development department officials, PMC commissioner, state revenue department and Pune district administrator officials, she added.Dr Siddharth Dhende, who was one of the member of Bhide Wada Smarak Samiti during his tenure as deputy mayor of PMC, said, “The then mayor, Chanchala Kodre, had called meeting of tenants and owner. Tenants demanded cash compensation as commercial property because tenants have shops in this structure. Then, municipal commissioner Mahesh Pathak (now he is principal secretary of urban development department) had shown positive response and put demand to provide compensation to residential rates instead of commercial as there is no such classification of residential and commercial compensation to land or property.”He further added, “Samiti submitted the corporation say in the Bombay High Court. After that, the court had given directives to the state government to submit their say in court. Unfortunately, neither the National Congress Party (NCP)-Congress government, nor the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-Shiv Sena government could not find time to present their opinion in court. Therefore, the case is pending. There is no need to form a new committee.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/minister-orders-pmc-dist-admin-to-form-committee-to-solve-bhide-wada-issue-101613387150337.html
15-02-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan police busts fake regional transport office in Chittorgarh; 2 held||The Rajasthan police on Sunday busted a fake regional transport office (RTO) operated from a house in Chittorgarh and arrested two persons involved in the making of thousands of fake registration certificates, licenses, and also recovered several documents and articles related to the offense in a decoy operation.The accused had produced about six-seven thousand fake driving licenses that were now in use in most states including Punjab, Haryana, UP, Jammu Kashmir, and Gujarat. Truck drivers from several states were in touch with them, said Deepak Bhargav, superintendent of police (SP), Chittorgarh. The accused will take only 15 to 20 minutes to replicate transport department documents like licenses, registration certificates (RC) toll slips, etc., he added.The SP revealed that the accused were caught following the development of leads, beginning with input about truck drivers routinely parking their vehicles on Mangalwad intersection on the highway and visiting the town. Investigations revealed that the drivers visited one Devendradas alias Devraj, to procure fake documents.The police then laid a trap by sending a cop in a decoy operation to the accused posing as a customer to procure a fake license, which was delivered in about 15 minutes. The police team then raided Devendra's house.Also Read: Narcotics cases in Rajasthan increased by 45.32% in 3 years: Govt data“Around 200 chip cards with blank driving licenses, 48 cards without a chip, two laptops, color printers, five tray cards, screwdriver machine, glue gun, gear heater, hard disk, iPod, and dongles were recovered from the possession of the accused,” said Bhargava.Police have arrested 33-year-old Devendradas, who used to produce fake documents and Rishi Agarwal, who was used to work as his agent under Section 420 (cheating), 467 (forgery), 468 (forgery for the purpose of cheating), 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code.“More secrets are likely to be revealed by the investigation of the laptop. In Devendra’s laptop, software used to create a driving license, RC, and toll plaza slips, have been recovered,” Bhargava said and added that the RTO has been informed about the racket.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-police-busts-fake-regional-transport-office-in-chittorgarh-2-held-101613386048876.html
15-02-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal’s ginger to boost Delhi’s immunity||With the demand for ginger produced in Himachal Pradesh increasing during the Covid-19 pandemic thanks to its immunity-boosting property, growers in the hill state’s Sirmaur district are hoping for global recognition for the indigenous rhizome cultivars, the main cash crop of the region. Though the farmers grow ginger in a traditional way in Sirmaur, the district has emerged as the biggest producer of the spice in the state and will be supplying the produce to the National Capital Region (NCR), too. State agriculture minister Virender Kanwar said the state government will soon sell ginger through Mother Dairy’s Safal outlets that offer fresh food and vegetables in NCR. “We will eventually target the market for spices in the metropolitan cities of Mumbai, Chennai, Kolkata and Bengaluru before exploring prospects in the West,” he said. The state plans to promote Sirmaur’s ginger growers under the Centre’s One District, One Product scheme that will enable them to cultivate products on a large scale and get better prices. “We will support farm producers’ organisations, self-help groups, cottage industries and processing units through a framework for value chain development and alignment of support infrastructure,” Kanwar said. Increase in domestic demand opens doors At present, Sirmaur is the largest producer of ginger in the state with the highest area coverage of 1,500 hectares. Himgiri and local varieties of ginger are commercially grown in the district. While ginger is also cultivated in some parts of Solan district, growing the spice is the mainstay of 600 families in Sirmaur with most of the produce coming from Nahan, Paonta Sahib, Pachhad, Rajgarh, Sangrah and Shillai areas. In fact, 55% of the total area under ginger cultivation is in Paonta Sahib and Sangrah. The annual production of ginger in Sirmaur is 16,650 tonnes and the total cost incurred in cultivating it is about ₹3,60,620 per hectare, while the net income is ₹7,06,880 per hectare. This year, the pandemic led to an increase in domestic demand for ginger with prices in wholesale and retail markets increasing rapidly as it is considered an immunity booster to fight Covid-19. Modernising cultivation, processing and marketing Most ginger growers in Sirmaur lack the technical knowhow and resort to traditional farming. Value addition and processing facilities can boost their prospects. The state agriculture department has drawn up a mega plan to boost ginger cultivation in the district that includes organising training camps for farmers to encourage them to adopt the latest techniques. State agriculture director Naresh Kumar Badhan says, “We are looking forward to business support for setting up processing plants.” At present, ginger is grown on hill slopes and most growers practise terrace farming. They sell their produce in the local farm mandi (market) and sell the seed in other districts of the state besides adjoining Uttarakhand and Haryana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachals-ginger-to-boost-delhi-s-immunity-101613386070472.html
15-02-2021||Lucknow||Over 83% of UP families hit by road mishap see dip in income: World Bank report||Over 83% of poor families in Uttar Pradesh reported a fall in their income and on average suffered a loss of more than seven month’s household income after a family member was injured in a road accident, according to a World Bank report.Titled “Traffic Crash Injuries and Disabilities: The Burden on Indian Society,” the report released by Union minister for transport and highways Nitin Gadkari in Delhi on Saturday highlights the disproportionate impact of a road crash on poor households that pushes them into a vicious cycle of poverty and debt.The study was conducted in collaboration with SaveLIFE Foundation – a national non-governmental organisation focused on road safety. It is based on the survey in four Indian states – UP, Bihar, Tamil Nadu, and Maharashtra."The decline in household income was more acutely felt in Uttar Pradesh. Over 83% of LIHs (low-income households) and 64% of HIHs (high-income households) reported a decline in household income after a road crash, which is higher than the overall figure of 75% and 54% for LIHs and HIHs, respectively,” Piyush Tewari, CEO and founder of SaveLIFE Foundation, said.About 48.2% of LIHs had to arrange for a loan, as opposed to 10.9% of HIH to deal with the financial fallout of the accident. Further, a larger proportion of LIHs had to resort to selling assets and taking on extra work. A larger proportion of HIH (89.1%) spent from family savings to cope with the losses than LIH (71.9%).As low as 7.5% of LIH victims, and 30.7% of HIH victims/family members, availed motor vehicle insurance compensation. Among those that availed compensation, just 41.9% of LIH victims and 38.7% of HIH victims received the eligible compensation.“This shows the need for greater institutional support for road accident victims, which as we understand, UP is working to develop as part of the new road safety policy,” Tewari said.The report revealed that the loss suffered by poor households was equivalent to less than one month’s household income for rich families on average. It further notes that a larger number of cases of property-sale, money borrowing and relocation were observed after the road accidents among LIHs in comparison to HIHs.A larger proportion of HIHs -89.8% also reported out of pocket expenses (OOPE) compared to the LIHs-72.3%, the report said. The OOPE for LIHs was about 5.8% higher than for HIHs. Total OOPE in Uttar Pradesh was ₹79,433 for LIHs and ₹75,110 for HIHs.As per the report, OOPE is the payment made directly by individuals at the point of service where the entire cost of health, goods, or service is not covered under any financial protection scheme.In UP, as high as 49.1% of household members from LIHs faced difficulty in sleeping after an accident, while only 3.2% of household members from HIHs faced the same problem. A total 62.6% of LIHs and 19.4% of HIHs reported that the victim, or a household member suffered from depression after a crash.Significantly, 50.6% of the LIHs and 50.5% of HIHs claimed that no FIR was filed for road accidents involving a family member.Also Read: UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath launches Abhyudaya schemeIn UP, a total of 514 respondents (victims and household members) participated in the survey. Among them, 101 respondents (19.6%) belonged to high-income households, and 413 (80.4%) belonged to low-income groups.In UP, LIH on average took 73 more days than HIHs to return to their previous occupation, with LIHs taking an average of 129 days to return to their occupation and HIH taking 56 days for the same. Further, on average, it took LIHs 105 days to find a new occupation.“The findings of the report identify the areas that require immediate improvements such as post-crash emergency care and protocols, insurance and compensation systems,” said Tewari.The report, according to Tewari, also presents an opportunity for development agencies, policymakers and state governments for a complete policy overhaul of the existing system and to implement sustainable solution-oriented, inclusive measures to improve their performance on road safety.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/over-83-of-up-families-hit-by-road-mishap-see-dip-in-income-world-bank-report-101613383344451.html
15-02-2021||Lucknow||Over 83% of UP’s poor households report income loss after road accident||Over 83% of low-income households in Uttar Pradesh reported a fall in their income after a family member met with a road accident, and their financial loss amounted to more than seven months’ household income, according to a latest World Bank report. Comparatively, it was equivalent to less than one month’s household income for high-income households, the report stated.The report has allocated the bottom 40% of the population by per capita income as low-income households and the top 10% of the population in terms of per capita income as high-income households. Titled “Traffic Crash Injuries and Disabilities: The Burden on Indian Society”, the report, released by union minister for transport and highways Nitin Gadkari in Delhi on Saturday, highlights the disproportionate impact of a road crash on poor households that pushes them into a vicious cycle of poverty and debt. Also Read | UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath launches Abhyudaya schemeThe study was conducted in collaboration with SaveLIFE Foundation—a national non-governmental organisation this is focused on road safety. It is based on the survey data collected from four Indian states—UP, Bihar, Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra. “The decline in household income was more acutely felt in Uttar Pradesh. Over 83% of LIHs [low-income households] and 64% of HIHs [high-income households] reported a decline in household income after a road crash, which is higher than the overall figure of 75% and 54% for LIHs and HIHs, respectively. This goes to show the need for greater institutional support in the state, which as we understand, UP is working to develop as part of the new road safety policy,” Piyush Tewari, CEO and founder of SaveLIFE Foundation, said. The report also said that a larger number of cases of property sale, money borrowing and relocation were observed among LIHs in comparison to HIHs. In UP, 49.1% of LIH members faced difficulty in sleeping after an accident, while 3.2% of HIH members faced the same problem. A total 62.6% of LIHs and 19.4% of HIHs reported that the victim, or a household member, suffered from depression after a crash. Significantly, 50.6% of the LIHs and 50.5% of HIHs claimed that no FIR was filed for road accidents involving a family member. Tewari also said, “The findings of the report identify the areas that require immediate improvements such as efforts towards post-crash emergency care and protocols, insurance and compensation systems.” In UP, a total of 514 respondents (victims and household members) participated in the survey. Among them, 101 respondents (19.6%) belonged to high-income households, and 413 (80.4%) to low-income households. A larger proportion of LIHs reported out-of-pocket expenses (OOPE) than HIHs. The OOPE for LIHs was about 5.8% higher than for HIHs. Total OOPE in Uttar Pradesh was ₹79,433 for LIHs, and ₹75,110 for HIHs.As per the report, OOPE is the payment made directly by individuals at a point of service wherein the entire cost of health, goods or services is not covered under any financial protection scheme. In as many as 89.8% of LIHs, the victims surveyed admitted to paying OOPE, while 72.3% of HIHs victims admitted to paying OOPE. About 48.2% of LIHs had to arrange for a loan, as opposed to 10.9% of HIHs. Further, a larger proportion of LIHs had to resort to selling assets, and taking on extra work. A larger proportion of HIHs (89.1%) spent from family savings to cope with the losses than LIHs (71.9%). As low as 7.5% of LIH victims, and 30.7% HIH victims/family members, availed motor vehicle insurance compensation. Among those that availed compensation, just 41.9% of LIH victims and 38.7% of HIH victims received the eligible compensation. In UP, LIHs, on an average, took 73 more days than HIHs to return to their previous occupation, with LIHs taking an average of 129 days to return to their occupation and HIHs taking 56 days. Further, on an average it took LIHs 105 days to find a new occupation. The report, according to Tewari, also presents an opportunity for development agencies, policymakers and state governments to prioritise a complete policy overhaul of the existing system and implement sustainable solution-oriented, inclusive measures to improve their performance on road safety.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/over-83-of-up-s-poor-households-report-income-loss-after-road-accident-101613382769783.html
15-02-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra to borrow ₹15,000 crore loan for road works, says PWD minister Ashok Chavan||Maharashtra PWD Minister Ashok Chavan on Monday said his government was planning to obtain loans to the tune of ₹15,000 crore from the Asian Development Bank at a nominal rate to build roads and clear the work backlog in the state.Speaking to reporters here, Chavan said the backlog in road work had gone up and the funds required would be more than what the state budget has allocated."The MVA government is planning to take a loan of ₹15,000 crore from the Asian Development Bank at a nominal rate of interest ranging between 1 per cent and 1.5 per cent," he said."The process of getting cabinet sanction for this loan application is underway. We are also planning to raise funds through asset monetization. Last year, fund allocation for road works was 30-40 per cent due to the coronavirus outbreak. This year, we will need more funds," Chavan added.He added that restrictions placed on the Shiv Jayanti celebrations, scheduled for February 19, were due to the coronavirus outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-to-borrow-rs-15-000-crore-loan-for-road-works-says-ashok-chavan-101613380865436.html
15-02-2021||Mumbai||SSR case: Bombay HC refuses to quash FIR against actor’s sister||Late actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s sister Priyanka Singh will have to face prosecution for allegedly sending him a prescription with medicines containing psychotropic substances controlled under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985.The Bombay high court on Monday refused to quash the FIR registered by Bandra Police on September 7, 2020, against Singh on the basis of a complaint lodged by Rajput’s girlfriend, actor Rhea Chakraborty.A division bench of justices SS Shinde and MS Karnik, however, quashed criminal proceedings against Meetu Singh, another sister of the late actor, after finding that there was no material against her.Advocate Madhav Throat, who represented the sisters, said, Singh will now move the Supreme Court, challenging the HC judgment.Also Read | NCB arrests assistant director in Mumbai in SSR death caseAs per Chakraborty’s complaint, Singh had, on June 8, 2020, sent the late actor prescriptions given by one Dr. Tarun Kumar, a cardiologist attached to Dr. Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital in Delhi without examining the actor, and consumption of the psychotropic substances in the prescribed medicines “may have caused and contributed to the suicidal death of the actor”.The sisters have moved the high court for quashing of the FIR, claiming the statements made therein did not make out any cognisable offence. Their petition stated that lodging of the complaint by Chakraborty was nothing but a feeble attempt on her part to scuttle investigations against her by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) and blame Rajput’s family for his suicide, as she was on the verge of being arrested by NCB. Rhea was arrested by NCB on September 8.Their counsel, senior advocate Vikas Singh, had submitted that there was gross delay in registering the offence, when Chakraborty was aware of the WhatsApp chats exchanged between the late actor and Singh on June 8, but she lodged her complaint on September 7.Also Read | ‘Sushant Singh Rajput was sober, innocent,’ observes Bombay high court, reserves order on plea by his sistersSingh had also pointed out that the telemedicine guidelines issued by the Medical Council of India permitted prescription of the medicines even on first consultation.Advocate Satish Maneshinde, who represented Chakraborty during the hearing, had also urged the court to allow the investigation into the allegations, contending that in a case of abetment to suicide, proximate reasons are most important and since the actor allegedly ended his life six days after the prescription, it could be the most proximate reason behind his death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ssr-case-bombay-hc-refuses-to-quash-fir-against-actor-s-sister-101613381269546.html
15-02-2021||Bhopal||Four dead, one ill after consuming country liquor in Madhya Pradesh||Four people have died and one person has fallen ill after consuming country liquor in Madhya Pradesh's Chhatarpur district, police said on Monday.Around 150 people had a party on February 9 at the place of one Shital Ahirwar (60) in Paretha village, about 55 km from the district headquarters, Chhatarpur Superintendent of Police Sachin Sharma told PTI.They bought liquor, named 'Dilse', from a shop located about 500 m away in neighbouring Uttar Pradesh and consumed it, he said.Ahirwar's son Hargovind (40) died on Friday, while he died on Saturday, the official said.Besides, one Tulsidas Brar (42) and Shital Ahirwar's nephew Laluram Ahirwar (75) died on Sunday, he said, adding that all the deceased are Dalits.Another 35-year-old man, who fell ill after consuming the liquor, was taken to Gwalior for treatment on Sunday night, he said."We have sent the viscera of the deceased and the liquor sample for tests," the police official said.Asked if it was spurious liquor, the official said the investigation into the case so far suggests the liquor was not mixed (with other intoxicants) or locally brewed.It was bought from a contractor's shop in UP, the official said.Further probe into the case is underway, he added.Last month, around 24 people died after consuming spurious liquor in the state's Morena district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/four-dead-one-ill-after-consuming-country-liquor-in-madhya-pradesh-101613379326359.html
15-02-2021||Pune||Balewadi , Sopanbaug residents irked over stray dog menace||Two men who were out on a morning walk were attacked by a pack of dogs at Balewadi High Street road on February 13, 2021. One of them suffered injuries on his leg due to dog bite.Sopan Dhale, a resident of Balewadi, said I was walking past the Balewadi High Street when the dogs attacked and bit me on the leg. “Other people came running to shoo them away, but till then one of the dogs bit me on the leg.”Another resident of Balewadi, Tushar Gadgil, said, “I was out on a morning walk when I was attacked by a pack of dogs and one of them also bit me on my ankle. This was on December 27 last year.”“It has become difficult to walk along freely on the road leading to Balewadi High Street. We have written about the stray dog menace to Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) ward office and even to the health department, but nothing has been so far,” he said.Meanwhile, in Sopan Baug area too residents are irked by the stray dog menace.“There is a group of at least ten dogs spread out on the road at two locations, one just outside a chicken shop in the area and one a little further, so we have to be careful while walking on the road leading from Sopan Baug to Race Course,” said Sachin Khandelwal of Sopan Baug Residents’ Association.A PMC official from the dog squad on condition of anonymity said, “We are working on sterilizing and vaccinating the stray dogs. In 2019-2020, we managed to sterilize 19,500 dogs while in year earlier it was 11,500 dogs. We had only two months off during the Covid lockdown, but we managed to capture most of the dogs.”If you want to register a complaint with PMC call on 96899317||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/balewadi-sopanbaug-residents-irked-over-stray-dog-menace-101613379528741.html
15-02-2021||Pune||Market Yard, Kondhwa residents form citizens’ forum to resolve civic issues||Residents of Market Yard and Kondhwa have formed a citizens’ forum to address and resolve civic issues of more than 100 residential housing societies on the Market Yard to Kondhwa road stretch.One member from each of the housing societies is part of the ‘Kondhwa Development Forum’ which will work along with Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and other government agencies to resolve civic issues in the area.Atul Jain, one of the members of the forum, said, “For last many years we are staying in this area and facing civic issues on daily basis. When we go to PMC, police or any other government agency there are difficulties we face on an individual level. So we have formed a citizens’ forum to work together to solve the civic issues in the area.”The civic issues in the area include traffic jams, garbage menace, street lights not working among others.“Currently there are 125 members in the forum. There is no president or any other post in the group, we all will work as a member,” he said.The official inauguration of this forum was done on Sunday by plating 96 plants on the occasion of 96th birth anniversary of Padma Vibhushan late Dr Mohan Dhariya.These trees were planted on the stretch from Gangadham chowk to Shriji Lawns on the road.Ravindra Dhariya, president, Vanrai organisation; Sardar Patil, senior police inspector of Kondhwa police station and others were present during the event.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/market-yard-kondhwa-residents-form-citizens-forum-to-resolve-civic-issues-101613379471581.html
15-02-2021||Other||Unidentified body found in Dehu road||PUNE The Pimpri Chinchwad police found a body of a man in Dehu road, on Friday morning.The body was found lying in the middle of a bylane that connected Talwade-Chakan road with the Talwade graveyard in Haveli, according to the police.The face and head of the man were injured in multiple places and blood was flowing from his wounds, according to the police.The police also found multiple stones covered in blood lying near his body.The body was found by the Hawaldar Kailas Balbhim Ulhare (32), who was on night patrol on a two-wheeler around 11:15pm on Friday.The man was rushed to a hospital, but was declared dead there.A case under Section 302 of Indian Penal Code was registered at Dehu road police station against unidentified people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/unidentified-body-found-in-dehu-road-101613379470805.html
15-02-2021||Mumbai||Covid cases spike, Mumbai may not see further unlock yet||With Covid-19 cases on the rise in Mumbai, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has yet not decided on any further relaxations in the city. Several factors, including restarting local train services for all, increased mingling among groups and non-compliance of Covid-19 appropriate behaviour, are some of the reasons for increase in daily cases in the past five days. According to BMC, a decision for further relaxation and unlocking will be taken on February 22 after monitoring the situation.On whether timing for the general public for travelling in local trains will be increased, BMC additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said, “We are not taking any decision on the same yet. We will monitor the situation until February 22 first.”The city has been reporting over 500 cases since February 10, and on Sunday, the city reported 645 Covid-19 cases and four deaths on Sunday. Overall, the city has reported 314,076 Covid-19 cases and 11,419 deaths. Its recovery rate is 94% and mortality rate is 3.63%.Also Read | Maharashtra reports 4,092 new Covid-19 cases, 40 deaths in 24 hoursThe increase in cases has come ten days after local train service was restarted for the general public on February 1. Now, general public can travel from the first train of the day up to 7 am, 12 -4 pm and later, from 9 pm till the last train. In the past two weeks, at least 15 million citizens have used the local train services.Last week, the BMC also wrote to Mumbai University on how it will monitor the situation till February 22 before allowing colleges to reopen in the city. This, as the Maharashtra government had allowed reopening of colleges from February 15.Kakani added, “Daily cases being reported has increased, and one of the reasons can be local trains, but there are other factors too. One is unlocking, now almost everything has been opened up. Social mingling has increased, and citizens have also stopped practising Covid-19 appropriate behaviour...Also, we are testing almost 17,000 samples a day which has also resulted in cases going up.”City physician Dr Siddarth Paliwal said, “We might notice a spike in the number of cases owing to gradual reopening and unlocking, but this does not mean we go on shutting the city again. We will have to restrict movement and maybe, night curfew can be a solution. The government should also focus on vaccination. With vaccination, cases will come under control in the coming months.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid-cases-spike-mumbai-may-not-see-further-unlock-yet-101613379470238.html
15-02-2021||Pune||Gambling den busted in Bhawani peth, 23 held||The Pune police booked 23 men after a raid was conducted on a gambling den in Kashewadi, Bhawani peth, on Saturday around midnight.The police made seizures worth ₹1,34,690 of which ₹71,190 was in cash along with 19 mobile phones worth ₹63,500.The owner of the den has been identified as Anvay Yusuf Khan (53), a resident of Chamanshah Dargah, Bhawani peth.The 22 others were found to be from various parts of the city including Kashewadi, Kondhwa, Ghorpadi, Ganesh Peth, Ravivar peth, Lohiya Nagar, among others.“We received information about the den and conducted a raid. In this area, this is the second raid in less than one month,” said Priyanka Narnavare, deputy commissioner of police, zone-1, Pune police.A case under Sections 4 and 5 of Maharashtra Prevention of Gambling Act was registered at Khadak police station against the 23 men.Assistant police inspector Nana Sawant of Khadak police station is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/gambling-den-busted-in-bhawani-peth-23-held-101613379468757.html
15-02-2021||Pune||23-year-old’s death in Pune needs probe, says Neelam Gorhe||Deputy chairman of Maharashtra legislative council and a senior Shiv Sena leader Neelam Gorhe on Sunday said that death of a 23-year-old woman was suspicious and a thorough probe will be conducted.A popular figure on social media, the woman died by suicide on February 8 after allegedly falling off the balcony of her rented house. The police registered a case of accidental death though officials said the investigation is on.“There is no doubt that her death was reported under suspicious circumstances. The chief minister of Maharashtra Uddhav Thackeray has already assured that detailed investigation will be carried out in the case and no one will be spared. The voice of people heard in the audio clips however needs to be corroborated,” said Gorhe.On being asked whether a fair investigation will be conducted if the minister in question does not resign from the post, Gorhe said, “This call will be taken by top officials in the government.”Earlier on Saturday, Thackeray said a detailed probe will be conducted and those responsible will not be spared, six days after the woman allegedly died by suicide in Pune.Following her death, 11 audio clips of a person allegedly talking with another man about deceased went viral. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) alleged that one of the persons in the audio clip is Maharashtra minister.Former CM and BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis has also written a letter to Maharashtra director general of police (DGP) Hemant Nagrale demanding a probe in the matter.On Sunday in Nagpur, Fadnavis said, “The government and police are not serious about the case. Everyone knows whose voice in the audio clip and yet everyone is washing off hands. We demand an FIR has to be lodged in the case.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/suicide-case-death-of-23-year-old-suspicious-says-neelam-gorhe-101613379408692.html
15-02-2021||Pune||Pune rural police official booked for attempting suicide||An official attached to the Pune rural police was booked for attempting suicide on the campus of Pune rural superintendent office on Saturday.A case under Section 309 (attempted suicide) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at Chaturshringi police station. Section 309 is decriminalised; however it still continues to remain in the IPC.A complaint in the matter was lodged by assistant police inspector Maruti Shinde of Pune rural police control room.The 30-year-old was admitted to Sassoon General Hospital and was reported to be stable, according to assistant police inspector SD Pawar of Chaturshringi police station who is investigating the case.“There was a case under Section 384 (punishment for extortion) of the Indian Penal Code that was registered against him at Manchar police station a few days ago. That may be the reason,” said API Pawar. The case against him is under investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-rural-police-official-booked-for-attempting-suicide-101613379409275.html
15-02-2021||Pune||‘Involvement of juveniles in murders has increased over the past three years’||The direct and indirect involvement of underage children in cases of murder has increased over the past three years, according to the number of recorded murder cases with minor accused.In 2018, there were five murder cases with six minor accused; in 2019, the number of cases jumped to 10 and the accused to 23. In 2020, even with the lockdown in place, the number of cases remained 10 and the number of accused was 26, according to records of the Pune police.Of the 10 cases in 2020, two each were registered in Yerawada and Hadapsar, while one each was registered at Kothrud, Dattawadi, Sinhgad road, Vishrantwadi, Wanowrie, and Kondhwa.While the involvement of children in the act of killing is not as high as the number of children who are involved as an accessory to the crime. The reason is the easily impressionable minds of these children, according to a social activist who has worked extensively and has written a book about her experiences with children in conflict with the law (CCL).“The actual involvement in the killings was very less. They were involved in things like keeping a watchout for police or subduing the victim. The children who were involved in killings, they were seldom involved without an adult. In my book, there are case studies of children involved in gangwar, murder, attempted murder, theft, rape, kidnapping and I have worked closely with them,” said Amita Naidu, author of a book called “Pahila Nambarkari”, Manovikas publication, based on the lives of CCL.The age of the children involved in murder cases have also often found to be between 15-18 years of age, observes Bachchan Singh, Deputy commissioner of police, crime, Pune. According to their involvement, their punishment by the Juvenile Justice Board and their treatment during their time in the observation home also varies.“Of all the cases, only 5% must be involved in actual cases. Most cases of under-15 CCL in murder cases are those where there is no motive or intention and between age group of 16-18 years. In most cases, they are just a part of the group which is involved in the violence. There are issues like lack of attention from children, abusive parents, broken families, economic weakness which are paired with lucrative offers for things like junk food, drugs, among other things,” said a lawyer who has been working closely with CCLs in Pune.“Those accused in murder cases are generally found to be between the age of 14-18 years. Every child’s story post-observation home is different. Even the judge grants bail based on specific conditions and can be planned. Conditions generally include things like not visiting the specific location for some time, not getting in touch with the ones who provoked the child in the first place, community service, completion of studies, among other things,” said Zaid Sayed, social worker who was formerly attached with the Tata Insitute of Social Science (TISS) collaboration with the Juvenile Justice Board.When asked about a case registered at Dattawadi police station of a minor involved in a murder case, senior police inspector Krishna Indalkar said, “The case was of a 17-year-old who, along with two others, caught a person late in the night for the purpose of robbery. But they were enraged that the man did not have much on him and they beat him to death. He was involved in the violent part of it.”However, every once in a while, there are cases of violent murders in which children below the age of 15 years. The recent case in Kothrud was a rude awakening after a lull in such cases where children commit violent murders. A 13-year-old had bludgeoned an 11-year-old boy to death with a stone.“The main reason in such cases, I have observed, is that the child has not yet grasped the entirety of what they have done. In the recent case in Kothrud, the child was calm right up till the point where he realised that there were so many people looking for him. There was a case of two 16-year-olds involved in a case of sexual assault and murder of a minor girl in Hingoli. After the amendment in the Juvenile Justice Act, they were awarded capital punishment by the sessions court,” recounts Ashok Morale, additional commissioner of police, crime, Pune.The child is in the observation home and is also being counselled by the Bharosa Cell of Pune police that helps women, senior citizens and children.“Our job is on a case-by-case basis. We talk to the children as and when such a case is registered. Currently, we are working with the child who was booked in the Kothrud case. No two cases are similar,” said police inspector Uttam Chakre of Bharosa Cell.There are multiple other social activists and officers who observed that the socio-economic conditions of CCLs are closely linked with their actions and circle of influence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/involvement-of-underage-children-in-cases-of-murder-has-increased-over-the-past-three-years-101613379350594.html
15-02-2021||Pune||Former state minister offers revised formula for Purandar airport||As stiff opposition to the Purandar airport continues from villages of the proposed new site, former state minister and Shiv Sena leader Vijay Shivtare has written a letter to NCP supremo Sharad Pawar and has suggested a new formula for the airport project. In the letter written on February 13, Shivtare requested Pawar to declare the rates of land acquisition immediately and shift the project to the old site. In his letter, Shivatare has said that if the rates of land acquisition is declared then opposition from the old site will get diluted and people accept it. In his letter, Vijay Shivatare has also mentioned that initially farmers had objected to the land acquisition for the Samruddhi Mahamarg project but once the actual rates were announced the process got going. Shivatare said that he was sure it would happen in this case also. He has suggested that in case of the old site, the opposition was strong from Pargaon. If Pargaon is excluded from the project site, the construction of the project would be possible. “No one can understand why the project site was shifted without consulting farmers and villagers. There is strong opposition from villagers to the new site. If the rates of land acquisition or arrangement of the acquisition is declared then people are ready to proceed with it. There is no point in delaying the project with fresh permissions,” said Vijay Shivtare. The old site for the Purandar airport was constituted of the villages Pargaon, Rajewadi, Munjewadi, Vanpuri, Kumbalvalan, Ekhatpur and Udachi Wadi. After opposition from these villages the project site was shifted to 2 kms away from these villages and a fresh proposal for the new project site was submitted. While speaking at a press conference in Pune, Ajit Pawar had said that after the suggestion from the defence minister, a joint report regarding the new airport site has been submitted to the central government by the district collector, airport authority and defence authorities. Villagers from the (new site) RisePise, Naygaon, Pandeshwar, Rajouri, Mavadi-Pimpri in Purandar taluka have come together and constituted the anti-airport coordination committee. members of the anti-airport coordination committee met NCP supremo Sharad Pawar to oppose the proposed construction of the airport in their villages in Purandar taluka. The committee members have also submitted a letter to Sharad Pawar. In this letter they have highlighted the reasons behind opposing the airport project on their lands. Villagers from RisePise, Naygaon, Pandeshwar, Rajouri, Mavadi-Pimpri in Purandar taluka have come together and constituted the anti-airport coordination committee.“We met Pawar Saheb in Jejuri and expressed our concerns. We want the administration to listen to us. When the proposal for the new site was submitted, no one talked to us or tried to consult us on this issue. So, now we have to make them listen to us,” said Pandharinath Sonawane from Pandeshwar village, who is the vice-president of the anti-airport coordination committee. “We told him that our lands are under irrigation and our lives will be destroyed if our land is taken from us. We have asked him for a meeting to discuss this issue in detail. He said he will let us know later,” said Pandharinath Sonawane.In the letter, the committee members have emphasised that almost 80% of the land in the newly proposed site is under irrigation and the land owners mainly rely on farming as their livelihood. “There was no consultation with the locals before the new site for the airport was proposed and somehow the administration has got the wrong impression that ours is a drought-prone area. Now we are going to conduct gram sabhas in our villages and convey our resistance to the authorities,” Santosh Kolte, secretary anti-airport coordination committee.The committee members had earlier met NCP leader and Member of Parliament from Baramati constituency Supriya Sule to raise their issues. They had asked her for a meeting to discuss the issues in detail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/former-state-minister-offers-revised-formula-for-purandar-airport-101613379349973.html
15-02-2021||Pune||PMC traced seven contacts for every positive case as opposed to 50||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has traced only seven contacts on an average for every positive Covid-19 case reported in the city. This, despite the district collector’s order dated September 4, ordering the civic body to trace at least 50 contacts for every positive case. For every positive case, the state guidelines suggest that the local authority must trace the high-risk contacts, those who possibly came in close contacts and are at high risk, while the low-risk contacts are those who might be at a lesser risk. Contact tracing works as an effective mechanism to check the spread of the infection. As of February 6, as per the data shared by the PMC, the city had reported 1.92 lakh Covid-19 positive cases for which the civic body had traced only 25.91 lakh contacts including 6.46 lakh high-risk contacts and the remaining were low-risk contacts. High-risk contacts can include family members and also those with comorbidities who might have come in close contact with the patient while low-risk contact includes those that might have come in contact with the patients. The civic body has traced about 7.4 contacts for every positive case on an average since the first case was reported in the city. This is far less than what the district collector Rajesh Deshmukh had ordered on September 4 when the pandemic was at its peak. The order stated that ‘civic bodies and rural administration has to trace at least 50 contacts for every single Covid-19 patient, which includes at least 20 high-risk contacts and 30 low-risk contacts. These 50 people must be tested either through Rapid Antigen Detection tests or RTPCR depending on their symptoms and ICMR guidelines. The high risk contacts will be institutionally quarantined at a Covid centre till results are awaited while low-risk contacts will be quarantined at home’.The city’s contact tracing was earlier slammed by the state administration for being below the advised rate. With more cases being reported now the city’s positivity rate is also going up in the past few days. While the positivity rate was at 5%, its lowest in the past five weeks, it jumped up back to 7% between February 4 and 10 which is the highest since January 7. Dr Subhash Salunkhe, chairman, Maharashtra Communicable Diseases Prevention and Control Technical Committee, said, “We were expecting about 15-20 contacts to be traced and so the current number is at the lower end. However, given that the current machinery was involved in contact tracing, isolation and admissions in the earlier few months when the pandemic struck, now they are engaged with other things to do, including vaccination. So seven still seems like a good number, but we can do better.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-traced-seven-contacts-for-every-positive-case-as-opposed-to-50-101613379348770.html
15-02-2021||Other||Pawar says Ranjan Gogoi’s remarks on judicial system worrisome||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) president Sharad Pawar while speaking to reporters in Pune on Sunday said that retired Chief Justice of India Ranjan Gogoi’s remarks on the judicial system was “shocking” and has become a “cause of worry” for everyone. Gogoi, a Rajya Sabha MP, had criticised the judicial system saying it is in a “ramshackled” condition in the country. Gogoi’s remarks came a week after Prime Minister Narendra Modi praised the judiciary for safeguarding peoples’ rights and personal liberty. “Last week I read that the country’s judicial system is the best. The statement was made by the Prime Minister in a meeting with Supreme Court judges. Obviously, we all felt happy about it but the remarks of Gogoi who is also the former CJI and was nominated by the central government in the Parliament, are shocking. I don’t know if, in a way, he (Gogoi) tried to bring out the truth but it is certainly a matter of concern for all,” said Pawar. Speaking at a conclave organised by India Today, former CJI was quoted as saying that if one goes to Indian courts they have to wait endlessly for a verdict. “How important the judiciary is as a constitutional body need not be emphasised. You want a 5 trillion-dollar economy, but your judiciary is ramshackled,” Gogoi said Gogoi was nominated on March 16 last year by President Ram Nath Kovind, four months after his retirement in November 2019. He is the first former CJI to become a nominated member of the Rajya Sabha. His most significant judgment was in the Ram Janmabhoomi case, where he led a bench which granted the disputed land in Ayodhya to the Hindu parties, paving the way for the construction of the Ram Temple, a key political agenda of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pawar-says-ranjan-gogoi-s-remarks-on-judicial-system-worrisome-101613379349327.html
15-02-2021||Pune||Double toll penalty for vehicles without FASTag from Monday||Starting February 15, Monday, the FASTag electronic payment system at the toll nakas will be mandatory for all vehicles after the earlier deadline of January 1, 2021, was extended. The Union minister of road transport Nitin Gadkari too made it clear on Sunday that no more extension will be given for FASTag implementation at the toll nakas across the country. “After several extensions, we have now decided to not give another deadline. FASTag will come into force from Monday as decided. To ensure seamless traffic, we have decided to sell tags at toll plazas,” said Union road transport minister Nitin Gadkari at Nagpur on Sunday. The FASTag technology helps in seamless collection of toll without the need to stop the vehicle at the toll plaza. The sticker of FASTag is stuck at the windshield of the car and deploys Radio-Frequency Identification (RFID) technology to collect tolls. The RFID technology is indigenously developed by National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI). The code in the FASTag sticker is detected using the RFID technology at the toll plaza that helps the payment of toll by the vehicle.Sagar Abnawe, who regularly travels to Kolhapur for work, at Khed Shivapur toll naka said, “I have two cars, one has the FASTag in place, but another doesn’t have it. Till now I was paying cash at toll nakas or it would get deducted from the FASTag of the car. Now if I drive with another car which does not have the FASTag, I would have to pay double the toll, so I am thinking of getting it done immediately.” Rohan Nalawade, who was travelling to Mumbai via Pune-Mumbai expressway, said, “I have not got the FASTag issued for my car and today, I had to wait for more than half an hour in the cash queue at the Urse and other toll nakas on the expressway. There should be lanes for FASTag and cash at the toll nakas, as it is not possible to have 100 per cent FASTag cars in place immediately from February 15. I would try to get it done next week as it is compulsory now.” Suhas Chitnis, Pune project director of National Highway Authority of India (NHAI), said, “There is a penalty for every vehicle which does not have FASTag in place from February 15, so we appeal to all vehicle owners to get it issued immediately to avoid penalties. The earlier deadline was extended so that people would get it done.” Sanjay Jadhav, superintendent of police, Highway State Police (HSP), Pune, said, “As FASTag is now compulsory at the toll nakas for all the vehicles from Monday, there might be long queues of vehicles. Our highway traffic policemen will ensure that the traffic movement is smooth and they will clear the rush as early as possible.” Major toll nakasThere are two major toll nakas around Pune city of the 30 toll nakas on the National highways in Maharashtra. One at Khed Shivapur on Pune – Bengaluru (NH 48) highway and another at Urse on the Pune-Mumbai expressway. Private players of banks and online payment services have installed temporary FASTag booths nearby toll nakas for the public to buy it on the spot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/double-toll-penalty-for-vehicles-without-fastag-from-monday-101613379288698.html
15-02-2021||Delhi||As law and order situation improves in Delhi, CRPF withdraws nodal officers||After considering law and order situation in Delhi, Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) has withdrawn all its nodal officers deployed in the national capital.The CRPF, which has contributed the majority of additional troops sent to Delhi, has asked officers to join back to their respective posts.These officers who were deployed after January 26 violence, were performing duty as nodal officers to maintain law and order situation. They were deployed after Delhi Police requested for paramilitary forces to control on ground mob situation.Follow latest updates on farm stir here Officers of ranks of Deputy Inspector General (DIG), equivalent to the Additional Commissioner in Delhi and Commandant who is equivalent to Deputy Commissioner of Police were deployed in Delhi.According to a recent letter, CRPF has said the decision has been taken after law and order has been improved in Delhi."Since law and order situation in Delhi has been improved, hence as desired by competent authority, DIGs, Commandants and other officers deployed by the headquarters as nodal officer for law and order deployment dated 26/1/2021 and 29/1/2021 are now withdrawn," CRPF said in a letter.This aside, CRPF has clarified that other unit heads will continue to supervise and coordinate in their respective units.Last week, CRPF DG had gone to meet Home Minister Amit Shah in the parliament, though the agenda of the meeting was not disclosed. Also, Commissioner of Police, Delhi held a meeting with top police officials to review deployment in the national capital.Recently, the ministry of home affairs had extended deployment of 31 Central Reserve Police Force companies including 16 Rapid Action Force (RAF) companies for Delhi-NCR, in view of farmers' protests.Earlier, the Centre had extended deployment period of four companies of Rapid Action Force till February 4 to maintain law and order in Ghaziabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/as-law-and-order-situation-improves-in-delhi-crpf-withdraws-nodal-officers-101613377485108.html
15-02-2021||Pune||Retired Supreme Court judge PB Sawant passes away at 90||Retired Supreme Court judge PB Sawant (90) passed away at his Pune residence around 9 am on Monday. Sawant had been ailing for some time and breathed his last in the presence of his family at his Baner residence. The last rites will be held on Tuesday. He is survived by his wife Jayshree, daughters Sujata and Rajashree , and son Vishwajeet. Besides being the chairman of the Press Council of India (PCI) during 1995-2001, Justice Sawant was also instrumental in organising the first edition of Elgar Parishad on December 31, 2017, and served as its co-convenor along with retired Justice BG Kolse Patil. His daughter Sujata Mane said, “My father had a remarkable career as a judge. He delivered important judgments which have benefited citizens at large. He was upright and never gave up on his principles. He will be remembered for his work for the people...He is a shining example for his courageous judgments for the benefit of the society.” Born on June 30, 1930, Sawant started practising as a lawyer in Mumbai high court after completing LLB degree from Mumbai University. He wrote several articles and recommended many social and economic reforms in his book ‘Grammar of democracy’. Also Read | Legal education in the country needs urgent reforms: Supreme Court judgesHe was appointed a judge in Mumbai high court in 1973 and his important decisions include inquiry into the June 1982 Air India crash. He was appointed a Supreme Court Judge in 1989 and retired in 1995. He also worked with retired Justice Suresh Hosbet on an Indian People’s Tribunal headed by Justice V R Krishna Iyer to investigate the 2002 Gujarat riots. “Justice Sawant always stood for justice and emancipation of the people. He is an ideal for all of us and excelled in his field of jurisprudence, was an activist and a devoted social worker,” said retired Judge B G Kolse Patil. Justice Sawant also chaired the judicial commission which was set up in 2003 to probe the corruption charges against four NCP ministers by social crusader Anna Hazare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/retired-supreme-court-judge-pb-sawant-passes-away-at-90-101613375569146.html
15-02-2021||Delhi||Delhi Gymkhana to get govt administrator, rules NCLAT||In a major relief to the government, the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) has acceded to its demand to appoint an administrator to oversee the “mismanagement at the Delhi Gymkhana”.“Prima facie evidence of mismanagement has been found,” said a senior ministry of corporate affairs official. “The court has found that it is prejudicial to public interest and has asked for a government administrator to be appointed,” the official added.HT reached out to officials at the Delhi Gymkhana but did not receive a response immediately.Also Read | Delhi Gymkhana Club still reeks of ‘imperial mindset’: NCLATOn June 26 last year, HT had reported that the tribunal had asked the government to appoint two nominees to the governing body of Delhi Gymkhana Club and also set up a five-member committee to look into the alleged irregularities. The NCLAT had also said that the Delhi Gymkhana club, which is in the midst of a takeover battle with the Centre, will not be allowed to make any “new policy decisions, appoint new members and/or begin new constructions”.The Delhi Gymkhana, which shares a wall with the Prime Minister’s residence, has been under investigation for around three years. The Central cited “parivarwaad” (nepotism), financial irregularities, misuse of allocated land and issues related to membership as the primary reasons behind its move to acquire the club.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-gymkhana-to-get-govt-administrator-rules-nclt-101613373649493.html
15-02-2021||Delhi||Delhi: 3 arrested for duping Kejriwal’s daughter of ₹34,000 in e-commerce fraud||A week after Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s daughter was duped of ₹34,000 while trying to sell a sofa online through an e-commerce website, the Delhi Police on Monday said that they have arrested three men from Uttar Pradesh for the crime.While one of the arrested men allegedly made the call to Kejriwal’s daughter, another would open bank accounts using fake address proofs, and the third would offer his bank account for a commission to receive the money, said a senior police officer who did not want to be identified. “We were able to trace the bank account in which the money was deposited. That helped us crack the case and arrest the three men on Friday,” said the officer. Also Read | Water supply in parts of Delhi likely to be hit due to Uttarakhand glacier burstThe crime took place on February 7 when a man posing as a buyer contacted Kejriwal’s daughter. When the deal was fixed, the man told her that he would send a small amount to confirm her bank details are correct.The man first sent her ₹2 and asked her to confirm receipt. After that, he sent her a QR code, asking her to scan it using her phone, to receive the remaining payment. As soon as she scanned the code, ₹20,000 was withdrawn from her account first and then ₹14,000 immediately after that. A first information report was subsequently registered at Civil Lines police station.“We focused on the bank account in which the money was deposited. We got to know that the deposited money was withdrawn from an ATM in Agra. That led us to the account holder, 18-year-old Kapil Kumar Rajouria,” said the officer. Rajouria would allegedly lend his bank account, for a commission, to the perpetraters of the fraud.“Rajouria opened seven bank accounts, but using fake address proofs,” the officer said. At Rajouria’s instance, the police also arrested Wajid, 26, and Manvinder Singh, 25.Wajod, a resident of Nuh in Haryana, works as a driver for a cab aggregator platform. He and another man Sajid, who remains on the run, were the alleged perpetraters of the crime. The police are working to help recover the amount, the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-3-arrested-for-duping-kejriwal-s-daughter-of-34-000-in-e-commerce-fraud-101613372629528.html
15-02-2021||Kolkata||Krishak Soho Bhoj: BJP's farmer outreach program in West Bengal to be held on February 18||In a bid to reach out to farmers of West Bengal, a mega outreach programme -- 'Krishak Soho Bhoj' will be organised by Bharatiya Janata Party's Kisan Morcha in 1,263 of its mandals on February 18.Among 48,751 villages, almost 40,000 villages have roped under the umbrella of Krishok Surakkha Abhiyan till date.This comes ahead of West Bengal Assembly polls slated for later this year.Mahadev Sarkar, President of BJP's state Kisan Morch said, "Our aim is to avail the farmers of all benefits being planned by Centre. There are more than 70 lakh farmers in West Bengal. It is sad to know that the state government has not come up with any proper plan for the benefits of the farmers. The farmers of the state are being deprived of welfare programme developed by the Centre.""More importantly, there is not even 'fasal bima' (crop insurance) for the farmers. The Minimum Support Price has scaled up to 50 per cent in last six years," said Sarkar.Krishok Surakkha Abhiyan commenced on January 9. Through this programme, Sarkar claims to have reached 25 lakh farmer families and around 7000 farmers with 'Soho bhoj'.Initially, this Abhiyan had aimed at having 'Soho bhoj' with as many as 3,354 gram panchayat. However, after the success they are now reaching out to the mandals. In Soho bhoj, every farmer's family gives 'ek mutho chal' (one fistful of uncooked rice) along with other ingredients and cooked together. Later, all the family members sit together for the meal.This comes amid the continuing farmers' protest at Delhi border areas since November 26 demanding the repeal of three farm laws. The agriculture laws include 'Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce Bill, 2020', 'Farmers Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020' and 'Essential Commodities Bill 2020.'||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bjps-farmer-outreach-program-in-west-bengal-to-be-held-on-february-18-101613371343555.html
15-02-2021||Delhi||Uttarakhand glacier burst: Water supply in parts of Delhi likely to be hit||Water supply in parts of south, east and northeast Delhi has been affected as the silt and debris after the Uttarakhand floods increased turbidity in the Ganga. Two water treatment plants of Delhi Jal Board (DJB) were operating at a reduced capacity. Raghav Chadha, vice-chairperson of Delhi Jal Board, on Sunday, had advised citizens to use water judiciously as the supply will remain affected.Delhi government officials said that Chadha will also visit Bhagirathi Water Treatment Plant on Monday to take stock of the situation and also check its preparedness to deal with the situation.In a series of tweets on Sunday, Chadha said that turbidity in raw water collected from Delhi’s Upper Ganga Canal had increased to an “unprecedented level of 8,000 Nephelometric Turbidity Units (NTU) because of the recent Uttarakhand floods.”In the aftermath of #UttarakhandDisaster, turbidity in raw water fetched by Delhi from Upper Ganga Canal has increased to unprecedented levels (8000 NTU). As a result, @DelhiJalBoard's Sonia Vihar & Bhagirathi Water Treatment Plants currently operating at reduced capacity. (1/3)Also Read | Uttarakhand floods: 12 bodies found, no trace of 154 people still“Sonia Vihar and Bhagirathi water treatment plants are currently operating at reduced capacity due to the increased turbidity in water,” he said.Turbidity is the measure of relative clarity of a liquid. Turbidity is measured in Nephelometric Turbidity Units (NTU). High turbidity can be caused by debris, silt, mud, algae, plant pieces, melting glaciers, sawdust, wood ashes or chemicals in the water.“The Delhi Jal Board urges citizens to use water judiciously. Water tankers inadequate numbers are being deployed and all possible efforts being made to reduce turbidity,” he tweeted.Government officials said that as an interim measure, coagulants are being added in the water to help treat it. They said that the water quality should return to normal on Monday.Coagulants are substances that help particles in liquid clump together and form clots which can then be filtered out easily.Officials said that the two treatment plants were affected on Sunday night and water production capacity had to be reduced to 20% at Sonia Vihar Water Treatment Plant and 90% at Bhagirathi.A glacier broke in the Tapovan-Reni area of Chamoli district last Sunday, which led to massive flooding in Dhauliganga and Alaknanda rivers and damaged houses and the nearby Rishiganga power project.The rescue and search operations were briefly halted at NTPC’s Tapovan hydel project on Thursday afternoon after police in Uttarakhand issued an alert over rising water levels in the Alaknanda river and its tributary Dhauliganga, officials said. As rescue operations continued for the ninth day at Tapovan Tunnel in Chamoli’s Joshimath, so far 53 bodies have been retrieved, the State Disaster Response Force was quoted as saying by ANI.The Uttarakhand Police has said the Alaknanda river at Srinagar in Pauri Garhwal is now flowing at a normal level and no alert has been issued by the district administration in this regard, according to ANI.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/uttarakhand-glacier-burst-water-supply-in-parts-of-delhi-likely-to-be-hit-101613371369501.html
15-02-2021||Kolkata||CPIM youth wing activist dies in Bengal; party alleges police brutality||A 31-year-old activist of the Democratic Youth Federation of India, the youth wing of the CPIM, died on Monday, four days after he was allegedly beaten up by the police during a protest march in Kolkata. The victim has been identified as Maidul Islam Midda who allegedly sustained severe injuries on February 11 when police used tear gas, water cannons and resorted to lathicharge to disperse protesters in central Kolkata. “He was murdered on the chief minister’s orders. We want justice. We are going for a state-wide protest,” DYFI secretary Sayandip Mitra said. Midda, an auto-rickshaw driver and a resident of Bankura district, had come to Kolkata to participate in the protest. The activists were marching towards the state secretariat at Nabanna with a set of demands, including jobs. When police stopped them in central Kolkata, the activists reportedly tried to break the barricades and a clash followed. The activists reportedly attacked the police with stones and sticks. Dozens of Congress and Left activists, and some police personnel were injured in the clash. The next day, the Left Front called for a 12-hour state-wide bandh with the Congress supporting it. Reacting to the death, minister Subrata Mukherjee said, “Any death is unfortunate. But I am aware of the CPIM’s game plan as I have been fighting them for the past few decades. They wanted this to happen. Police were restrained on that day. But if someone wants to commit suicide, no one can help them.” Meanwhile, the Opposition mounted attack on the Mamata Banerjee administration, saying that the government was trying to throttle all protests. “This is a murder by the state government. The way police attacked the students can only be compared with the Jallianwala Bagh incident. More than 500 students were injured when police brutally attacked them,” CPIM leader Sujan Chakraborty said. “This is an autocratic government. The administration is trying to snatch the people’s democratic rights. People are not being allowed to protest...People have to organise a mass movement against this,” said Abdul Mannan, veteran Congress leader and the Leader of the Opposition in the West Bengal assembly. “Police have turned violent. Even BJP protesters were attacked when they marched towards Nabanna on October 8, 2020. Even protesting teachers were attacked. The administration has lost the people’s confidence and is now unleashing terror,” said Dilip Ghosh, state president of BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/cpim-youth-wing-activist-dies-in-bengal-party-alleges-police-brutality-101613370288718.html
15-02-2021||Lucknow||In wake of Priyanka Gandhi’s frequent visits to UP, BJP plans farmer outreach||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders have readied a counter-plan amid Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra’s frequent visits to Uttar Pradesh in the last few weeks, said people familiar with the matter. The BJP is planning a series of pro-farmer meetings that would include small, rural gatherings, and its leaders have started visiting villages. Besides, some Jat leaders could be given prominence in the party, as well as in the anticipated reshuffle and expansion of the Yogi Adityanath ministry, a local party leader said. “I won’t be surprised if some of them are given prominence at the Centre in some capacity,” the BJP leader said. Also Read | AAP says will bring back old pension scheme in UP if voted to power: ReportSeveral farmers agitating in western UP are Jats and the BJP, it is expected, is hoping to reach out to them in a variety of ways. Groups of farmers backing the new farm laws, too, are active. The BJP leaders see a pattern in Gandhi’s visits—a combination of a pro-farmer approach and a touch of public display centered on “soft Hindutva”. In the past two weeks, the Congress’ general secretary has been in the state thrice. On February 4, she visited the family of a farmer from Rampur who died during the ongoing stir against the farm laws. In Saharanpur, she attended a kisan panchayat on February 10. The next day, she took a dip in the Sangam during Mauni Amavasya in Prayagraj. On Monday, Gandhi will again visit western UP to attend yet another farmer panchayat. The Congress leaders, too, say they anticipate a damage control plan and hence feel Gandhi’s visits would be tactically scheduled to tap the discontent against the BJP. “Yes, Gandhi is the face of the Congress in UP and, naturally, in the run-up to the elections, she would visit every assembly constituency in the state. People are looking to her with hope,” said Congress leader and former lawmaker Akhilesh Pratap Singh. As the Congress readies Gandhi’s itinerary, the BJP, too, has swung into action. Its state leaders are attending farmers’ meets. Leaders vested with organisational matters have tasked cadres to collect information on all assembly seats, including the 84 seats that the BJP lost in the 2017 UP polls when it won power in the state after a long hiatus. “Information on all the seats is being collected. We have cadre right down to the rural level. The process to gather feedback on each seat is underway. We are also looking into factors that caused us to lose the seats we did in 2017. And this exercise isn’t governed by any political party or its leader, but by our own desire to excel, set newer benchmarks in public outreach,” a BJP lawmaker privy to the party plan said. UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh has been leading the party’s rural connect activity, one that comes just ahead of the panchayat polls likely in April-May. Immediately after, the stage will be set for the 2022 UP assembly polls and the BJP, those in the know of things said, has started work on winning the confidence of the farmers by approaching them in small groups in western UP. Along with Gandhi, Jayant Chaudhary of the Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD), too, has featured prominently in farmer meets. With political activity increasing in the region, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Singh met Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) chief Naresh Tikait in Muzaffarnagar. In Farrukhabad, veteran Congress leader and former union minister Salman Khurshid also attended a farmers’ panchayat. “As of now, the farmers’ stir appears to be hurting the BJP while RLD and the Samajwadi Party (SP) seem to be gaining. But then, the elections are still far away and by then, we would have recovered lost ground,” a BJP functionary from western UP said on condition of anonymity. Political experts said the Congress was looking at these farmer panchayats to reclaim lost political ground. “The Congress is desperate to recover lost political space in the most populous state which holds the key to power in Delhi. But, unlike the main Opposition Samajwadi Party and the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), the Congress doesn’t have a solid organisational base. So, a popular leader of theirs attending kisan mahapanchayats could grab headlines, but it would take much more than that for making political headway,” said Irshad Ilmi, a veteran journalist. “Moreover, more than the BJP, would the SP and the BSP be comfortable if the Congress rises politically in UP?” he asked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/in-wake-of-priyanka-gandhi-s-frequent-visits-to-up-bjp-plans-farmer-outreach-101613369688933.html
15-02-2021||Patna||Bihar to reduce taxes on crushing of sugarcanes in a bid to help sugar mills||The Bihar government has proposed to reduce taxes on crushing of sugarcanes in the current fiscal to help tide over a financial crisis threatening closure of several sugar mills. The relief will be offered by way of reduction in commission to the regional development councils and partial waiver in the Goods and Services Tax (GST).“The government has agreed to reduce the regional development council commission on crushing of sugarcane to 0.20% from the existing 1.80% of the amount,” said Bihar Sugar Mills Association (BSMA) secretary Naresh Bhatt.He said the state sugarcane industries department had also given assurance to waive off tax on the purchase of sugarcane after implementation of the GST on crushing of sugarcane. He further claimed that the department has also decided to increase the minimum support price (MSP) on all varieties of sugarcane by ₹5 per quintal. The mills would purchase the best quality sugarcane from farmers at ₹ 315 per quintal at the mills’ entrance, while the medium quality would be paid ₹295 per quintal. The lower quality of sugarcane would fetch ₹272 per quintal to the farmers, he said, adding that the millers have been authorized to purchase sugarcane from the farmers from the field or market at ₹20 lower than the MSP at the mills’ gate.Assurances to the effect came during a meeting between a BSMA delegation and sugarcane industries minister Pramod Kumar on Saturday.The sugarcane industries department faces the challenge to revive sugar mills, which are on the verge of closure due to financial stress. Currently, only nine out of 28 sugar mills are operational, while the rest have been closed due to various reasons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-to-reduce-taxes-on-crushing-of-sugarcanes-in-a-bid-to-help-sugar-mills-101613368155938.html
15-02-2021||West||BJP leaders challenge Bengal CM, says cadres are civilised but not weak||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders Dilip Ghosh and Suvendu Adhikari on Sunday again challenged West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, saying that their party will form the next government in the state.“Yes, ‘Khela hobe, khela hobe’ (the game is on) and ‘paribortan hobe’ (there will be change). Let me tell the brothers of Mamata didi that BJP will form the government in West Bengal. I know there will be attempts to stop the yatra so I am here to meet you. We will ensure that you are able to cast your votes,” Ghosh was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Ghosh also warned TMC workers and said that any incident of violence will not be taken lightly saying that BJP workers are not weak. He said, “Opposition is telling us that our game is over but let me tell them that our game is on. Be ready. Tell mothers to keep their children under control if they want to see their faces after polls. We're civilised and follow rule of law but it does not mean that we are weak.”Incidents of clashes and violence between Trinamool Congress workers and BJP workers have cast a shadow of fear over the upcoming legislative session assembly elections.Suvendu Adhikari, the TMC-rebel leader who joined BJP back in December, said that the TMC-led government is planning to turn West Bengal into ‘Bangladesh’. He directed his criticism at the ‘Khela Hobe’ slogan coined by the Trinamool Congress and said that it was coined by Bangladesh’s Awami League MP Shamim Osman. He alleged that importing slogans from politicians from across the border indicates the mentality of the Trinamool Congress.He said, “The 'Khela hobe’ slogan was coined by Narayanganj MP Shamim Osman 4 years ago. TMC wants to turn West Bengal into Bangladesh that is why they've imported the ‘Joy Bangla’ slogan. Our slogan is ‘Bharat Mata Ki Jai’ and ‘Jai Shri Ram.”He also said that BJP will improve its performance in these elections and has built on the success of the 2019 Lok Sabha polls where the party had won 18 out of the 22 Lok Sabha constituencies in West Bengal. He said, “2019 main half, 2021 main saaf as said by PM Modi and home minister Shah will happen.”West Bengal is likely to hold its legislative assembly elections in the months of April-May this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/elections/west-bengal-assembly-election/bjp-leaders-challenge-bengal-cm-says-cadres-are-civilised-but-not-weak-101613367563039.html
15-02-2021||Patna||Bihar panchayat polls: State poll panel moves HC over delay in procuring EVMs||Bihar state election commission (SEC) has moved the Patna high court, over the perceived delay in the grant of permission by the Election Commission of India (ECI) for the purchase of multi-post electronic voting machines from the Electronics Corporation of India Limited (ECIL) for holding the state’s first EVM-conducted Panchayat polls.The SEC has pleaded that the perceived delay in getting clearance for the EVMs could hamper the timely conduct of the panchayat polls, which the poll panel was tentatively planning to hold in phases beginning next month and complete before June 15, said officials aware of the developments. The writ petition was filed on behalf of SEC on February 11 and is expected to be taken up by the court soon, they added.Elections for a total of 2.58 lakh posts in the three-tier rural local bodies are due in Bihar and the state poll panel has been busy updating the voter's list, verifying poll booths, finalising security and logistics among others. The purchase of EVMs has been sanctioned by the state government.The SEC has been trying to obtain the multi-post EVMs—with multiple voting options-- of secured detachable memory module (SDMM) from the ECIL, Bangalore, in keeping with its tentative schedule for the panchayat polls.An official, pleading anonymity, said the SEC has been communicating with the ECIL since last year for the purchase of 15,000 EVMs but ECIL did not get the requisite clearances from the ECI.The SEC, which plans to hold panchayat polls in nine phases, is keen to complete the election process by June 15 when the term of the three-tier local bodies end. The state government has already approved and earmarked the funds for the purchase. The total cost of holding the panchayat polls is expected to be close to ₹400 crore.Also Read: Craze for learning Chinese among Bihar tourist guides falls sharplyThis is the first time that panchayat polls in Bihar are being planned using EVMs. Till the last panchayat election, held in 2016, ballot papers were used.“The EVMs are being used to bring in transparency in the conduct of the elections; check electoral malpractices especially in the counting process and also to reduce litigation. Previously, EVMs have been used in Rajasthan and a few other states. There is a provision for the use of EVMs in panchayat polls in Rule 54 of the Bihar Panchayat Election rules, 2006,” said an official on the condition of anonymity.SEC officials did not comment on the petition. “I will not make any comment,” said Amit Shrivastava, the senior retained counsel of the SEC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-panchayat-polls-state-poll-panel-moves-hc-over-delay-in-procuring-evms-101613363544378.html
15-02-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra records over 4,000 Covid-19 cases after 39 days, experts sound alarm||Maharashtra on Sunday recorded over 4,000 Covid-19 cases after a gap of 39 days, while Mumbai reported over 600 cases after exactly a month. With the number of cases seeing an upward trajectory for the past four or five days, health experts have sounded an alarm stating that administration will have to increase tracing and testing, while the people will have to strictly adhere to Covid-appropriate behaviour. They also suggested that areas where cases have seen an uptick should be put on “red alert”.Maharashtra on Sunday recorded 4,092 Covid-19 infections, over 4,000 for the first time since January 6, taking its tally to 2,064,278. Mumbai, meanwhile, reported over 600 cases after 31 days with 645 fresh infections. The city last saw over 600 cases in a day on January 14.Health experts, who are also on state government panels and task forces, have attributed the rise in cases to the increased movement of people post the resumption of activities and the operation of trains in Mumbai and Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), and Covid fatigue in wearing masks and sanitising.Also Read | India records 11,649 Covid-19 new cases, daily toll remains below 100Dr Shashank Joshi, member of the Covid task force in the state, said, “Kerala and Maharashtra are outliers. And the increase in cases has coincided with three things—full unlocking, gram panchayat elections, and some degree of schools and colleges reopening. All these three things have a significant role. In geographies like Mumbai, MMR, the population in trains is increasing. These are the reasons for the increase in the cases and need to be looked at urgently.”Dr Joshi added that footfall in Mumbai trains has gone up from 2 million to 3.4 million after the general public was allowed to use trains from February 1. “We definitely need to remain alert and should avoid complacency,” he said.For Mumbai, Dr Joshi said that the population that was thus far unexposed to the virus could be getting affected. He suggested that areas should be re-looked at and put on “red alert”. “Covid is going to become an endemic in Mumbai. We will routinely see cases between 400 and 600 daily. But it should not drastically spike. The exposed population could have herd immunity, but the unexposed population is getting hurt now. For example, children who never stepped out earlier are now going to schools. We might see a spurt in these cases. We need to increase testing, tracking and isolation,” Dr Joshi said.Meanwhile, Dr Subhash Salunkhe, advisor to the state government on Covid-19 and former director-general of health services, said that he was “warning” of a possible surge in daily cases. He painted a grim picture saying Mumbai, which was a hotspot of Covid-19, could be in more “trouble” with train traffic increasing.“Mumbai could get into trouble with local trains starting and flow of people increasing from its surrounding areas. The numbers were expected to rise as people are lax in Covid-appropriate behaviour. We are seeing a similar rise in Pune as well as people are behaving as if the pandemic has passed,” Salunkhe said.He added that the vaccination drive is progressing slowly and it will take time for herd immunity to build after inoculation. He said, “The vaccination is taking place at a slow pace. The inoculation of the general public (above age 50, and with comorbidities) will start only next month. Till that period at least, people have to remain vigilant.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-records-4k-covid-19-cases-after-39-days-health-experts-sound-alarm-101613362908989.html
15-02-2021||Lucknow||AAP says will bring back old pension scheme in UP if voted to power: Report||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), which recently announced that it will contest elections in six states, on Saturday announced that the old pension scheme will be restored if they come to power in Uttar Pradesh, Hindustan Times’ sister concern Livehindustan reported.AAP’s Uttar Pradesh spokesperson Prince Soni said that the state government has hurt the incomes of the elderly by replacing the old pension scheme with a new one. He also said the deduction of pensions of the elderly is akin to insulting them at the twilight of their lives.Soni further said that the AAP aims to implement the Delhi model of governance in Uttar Pradesh. He also said that the party wants to bring changes to the recruitment process and in the way government employees work under contractual terms. He further added that schools and hospitals will function better if AAP comes to power in Uttar Pradesh.Earlier in January, Delhi chief minister and AAP national convener Arvind Kejriwal said that the party is going to contest polls in six states. Apart from Uttar Pradesh, the party plans totest electoral waters in Uttarakhand, Goa, Punjab, Himachal Pradesh and Gujarat.Urging party members to strengthen the party at grassroots level, Kejriwal had said, “In next two years, AAP will be contesting elections in six states - UP, Uttarakhand, Goa, Punjab, Himachal Pradesh and Gujarat. I urge party members to strengthen grassroots-level hold of the party across the country. The organisation has to be strengthened on a very large scale. The country is important for us and AAP is the vehicle and we need to work towards the development of the party.”Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia had previously targeted the UP government regarding the state of education in Uttar Pradesh. In December, Sisodia conducted a debate programme titled State of Education – Kejriwal's Delhi Model versus Yogi's UP Model - at Gandhi Bhawan in Lucknow’s Kaiserbagh. During the programme, he kept an empty seat on stage waiting for UP cabinet minster Siddharth Nath Singh, news agency PTI reported.The party has also made MLA Raghav Chadha AAP's Punjab co-incharge in a bid to continue its criticism of the model of governance under the leadership of CM Captain Amarinder Singh. The party which has emerged as the main opposition party in the state continues to attack Congress over several issues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/aap-says-will-bring-back-old-pension-scheme-in-up-if-voted-to-power-report-101613361638286.html
15-02-2021||Other||Maharashtra: 15 killed, 5 injured in road mishap; PM condoles death||Fifteen labourers were killed and at least five were severely injured when the truck carrying them overturned near Kingaon village in Yaval taluka of Maharashtra’s Jalgaon district in the early hours of Monday. Seven men, six women and two children lost their lives in the accident.According to the highway traffic police, the truck, which was also carrying papayas, was on its way from Sakri in Dhule district to Raver in Jalgaon district when the accident took place.Police officials said the truck driver lost control over the wheel because of potholes. “The truck was taking a steep turn when it overturned and the labourers were crushed under the papayas,” said a police officer. Most of the people were from Abhoda, as per the police.Also Read | 4 killed, 6 injured in a collision in Uttar Pradesh’s AzamgarhThe driver of the vehicle, Shaikh Zahir Baddruddin, has also sustained minor injuries and is being treated at a rural hospital along with the other injured labourers. Police said he will be arrested by the Yaval police after being discharged from the hospital.They said they have registered a case of accidental death and are investigating it further. “Since the accident took place a few minutes after midnight, the rescue operations were delayed. However, the injured have been admitted and are receiving treatment,” said a police officer.The police are trying to contact next of kin of the deceased to hand over their bodies after the postmortem.Prime Minister Narendra Modi has mourned the loss of lives and prayed for an early recovery of those injured.“Heart-wrenching truck accident in Jalgaon, Maharashtra. Condolences to the bereaved families. May the injured recover at the earliest,” the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) said in a tweet on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/16-labourers-die-as-truck-overturns-in-maharashtra-s-jalgaon-district-101613361648363.html
15-02-2021||Patna||Craze for learning Chinese among Bihar tourist guides falls sharply||The craze for learning the Chinese language among the tourist guides of Bihar, a skill once considered a money-spinner, is diminishing fast due to the strained relations between India and China over boundary disputes and the severe drop in tourism due to Covid-19 pandemic, said several people in the tourism industry.The tourist guides based at Bodh Gaya, Rajgir and Nalanda, who speak Mandarin, say they were facing an unprecedented crisis and would never advise their juniors to learn the Chinese language.At Bodh Gaya, the tourist guides say the young generation of guides is flocking to learn Japanese instead.“Due to the strained relations between India and China post the Doklam and Galwan incidents and also because of Covid-19, the tourist guides are less attracted towards learning Chinese. They are flocking to learn Japanese or other languages instead. At this point of time, it is difficult to predict how will be the flow of Chinese tourists when the international flights resume,” said Dayanand Kumar, a post-graduate in Chinese language from Visva Bharati University, Santiniketan, and a tourist guide-cum-escort, based at Bodh Gaya.In 2019, 1,093,141 foreign tourists visited Bihar, as against 33,990,038 domestic tourists in the same period, a sizeable number of these were Chinese.Earlier some guides used to teach Chinese at Bodh Gaya, but now they don’t have students. “At Bodh Gaya, an institute teaches Japanese and there are many takers for it,” said Rakesh Kumar, president, Bodh Gaya Tourist Guides Association.Bodh Gaya Hotel Association’s general secretary, Sudama Singh, who along with his Japanese wife runs a Japanese training center, said they had a batch of about 400-450 students. “However, Covid has reduced the count of Japanese learners,” he said.Bodh Gaya Tourist Guides Association’s general secretary, Deepak Kumar, who is also a Chinese interpreter, one cannot acquire proficiency in the Chinese language without learning the language in China. He said many tourist guides are under huge debts after investing in learning Chinese but now without any earning to pay back the loan. He said some have joined cell phone companies where there is a limited opening for Chinese interpreters.Also Read: Bihar gets its act together for Paddy procurement after Nitish Kumar’s warningAjay Kumar, a tourist guide at Bodh Gaya had a similar story to narrate, “Two years ago I managed about ₹12 lakh by borrowing from different sources and got myself admitted to the Kunming University in China. Initially, I got work as a Chinese interpreter-cum-tourist guide in December 2019. Unfortunately, after Covid-19 hit the world, there is no work at all. Our lot is apprehensive about how the situation will pan out once things normalize as visa norms for Chinese citizens have been tightened by the Indian government. In this situation, I will not advise anyone to learn Chinese.”There are many guides like Kumar in Bodh Gaya who sold their land or took money from their parents’ provident fund to learn the language in China. “However, now their condition is pitiable, said a guide.Principal secretary, tourism department, Ravi Manubhai Parmar, said the entire tourism industry was hit by Covid-19. “The honourable minister has just joined. In a few days we will look into the guides’ problems,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/craze-for-learning-chinese-among-bihar-tourist-guides-falls-sharply-101613361189807.html
15-02-2021||Mumbai||SSR case: Bombay HC judgment on sisters’ plea for quashing of Bandra FIR today||The Bombay high court will pronounce on Monday its judgment on the petition filed by Priyanka Singh and Meetu Singh, sisters of late actor Sushant Singh Rajput, for quashing an FIR registered against them by Bandra Police on September 7, 2020. The FIR was registered on the basis of a complaint lodged by Rajput’s friend, actor Rhea Chakraborty.The division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice MS Karnik is scheduled to pronounce orders on the petition in the afternoon.On September 7, 2020, Bandra Police registered an offence against the sisters on the basis of a complaint lodged by Chakraborty, alleging that Priyanka Singh had, on June 8, 2020, sent the late actor prescriptions by one Dr Tarun Kumar, a cardiologist attached to Dr. Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital in Delhi, with medicines containing psychotropic substances controlled under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985. Chakraborty alleged that the doctor had not examined the actor, and consumption the of the psychotropic substances “may have caused and contributed to the suicidal death of the actor.”Also Read | Sajid Nadiadwala dedicates award won by Chhichhore to Sushant Singh RajputThe sisters have moved the high court through advocate Madhav Thorat, claiming the statements made therein did not make out any cognisable offence. Their petition stated the complaint was nothing but a feeble attempt on Chakraborty’s part to scuttle investigations against her by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) and blame Rajput’s family members for his suicide, as she was on the verge of being arrested by NCB. Chakraborty was arrested by NCB on September 8.Their counsel, senior advocate Vikas Singh, had submitted that there was a gross delay in registering the offence, when Chakraborty was well-aware of the WhatsApp chats exchanged between the late actor and Priyanka Singh on June 8, but she lodged complaint on September 7.Vikas Singh had also pointed out that the Telemedicine Guidelines issued by the medical council of India permitted prescription of the medicines even on first consultation, and there was nothing wrong in the prescription.The senior advocate had asserted that the FIR registered by Bandra Police was non-est in the eyes of the law for being a second offence on the same cause of action and thus liable to be struck down on this ground as well. The senior advocate relied on the ruling in Jacob Matthew’s case, in which Supreme Court has held that an offence cannot be directly registered against a registered medical practitioner.Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) supported the petitioners by terming Chakraborty’s allegations “mostly presumptive and speculative in nature” and claiming the FIR was “vitiated and bad in law” for being the second FIR on the same cause of action—the death of Rajput.Senior advocate Devdatt Kamat, who represented Bandra Police, had maintained that there was no illegality in registering the offence. Kamat submitted that the prescription (sent by Priyanka Singh to Rajput) was prima facie a fabricated document.Kamat had pointed out that the WhatsApp messages exchanged by and between the deceased actor and Priyanka Singh falsified the claim that the prescription was followed by online consultation. He pointed out from the documents that somebody other than the late actor had gone to Ram Manohar Lohiya Hospital as an indoor patient and obtained the prescription.With regard to the contention of second FIR on the same cause of action, Kamat said that the Bandra FIR was in the nature of a counter-complaint and an FIR on the basis of a counter-complaint can’t be termed as a second FIR on the same subject.Advocate Satish Maneshinde had represented Chakraborty during the hearing. He had insisted that the circumstances relating to Rajput’s death need to be investigated. Responding to the grounds of delay in lodging the complaint, he had said that Chakraborty was aware of the messages exchanged by and between the late actor and Priyanka Singh on June 8 and Rajput had asked her to leave his residence as she insisted that he should not take the illegally prescribed medicines.However, Maneshinde said, she realised that the medicines were actually procured and consumption of the same could have led to untimely death of the actor only after certain other messages were leaked by an investigation agency and thereafter she lodged the complaint.Maneshinde had also urged the court to allow the investigation into Chakraborty’s allegations, contending that in a case of abetment to suicide, proximate reasons are most important and since the prescription was dated June 8 and the actor had ended his life six days later, on June 14, it could be the most proximate reason behind his death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-judgment-on-ssr-sisters-petition-for-quashing-of-bandra-fir-today-101613360148231.html
15-02-2021||Lucknow||Uttarakhand glacier burst: 4 more bodies of UP residents found, 59 still missing||Four more bodies of Uttar Pradesh residents, who went missing after the Chamoli-glacial-burst in Uttarakhand, were found on Sunday, taking the state death toll to nine, while 59 others hailing from the state were yet to be found, said UP state officials.Three of the recovered bodies were of Gorakhpur residents identified as Ved Prakash, Dhanushdhari and Sheshnath while the fourth belonged to Kushinagar resident Suraj Kushwaha. Bodies will be sent to the native places of the deceased after a post-mortem examination, said a UP government spokesperson."After verification by various government agencies, the list of missing people from Uttar Pradesh has been revised to 91," said Sanjay Goel, UP relief commissioner. "The government agencies have been able to locate and rescue 23 missing persons while nine have died and 59 persons are still missing," he added.A portion of the Nanda Devi glacier possibly burst in Uttarakhand's Chamoli district on February 7 and it appeared to have triggered an avalanche and a deluge that ripped through the Dhauliganga and Alaknanda river system in the upper reaches of the ecologically fragile Himalayas. The deluge damaged several houses and at least two hydropower stations. Several residents and also workers at the power stations were either killed or trapped in debris and slush deposited. A total of 51 bodies have been recovered so far, out of which, 25 have been identified, Uttarakhand police said on Sunday.Also Read: Uttarakhand floods: 12 bodies found, no trace of 154 people still"Among the still missing ones, 30 are from Lakhimpur Kheri, 10 are from Saharanpur, 5 from Shravasti, two from Rae Bareli and one each from Amroha, Azamgarh, Bulandshahr, Chandauli, Gorakhpur, Deoria, Kushinagar, Mathura, Mirzapur, Moradabad, Shahjahanpur and Sonbhadra districts," Goel said.The officers deputed by the UP government in Uttarakhand to coordinate with local administration in the search of the missing people are regularly updating both the state governments and the family members of the missing persons, said a government spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttarakhand-glacier-burst-4-more-bodies-of-up-residents-found-59-still-missing-101613358703311.html
15-02-2021||Delhi||Delhi AQI improves marginally, stays in very poor category||Delhi’s air quality improved to the lower end of the very poor category on Monday morning. Data from Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7am stood at 326. On Sunday, the average 24-hour AQI had been 351.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe.Also Read | Recoveries from Covid-19 in Delhi exceed cases logged during the weekHowever, Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar), had on Sunday said that the air quality in the Capital was likely to deteriorate.“The overall Delhi air quality is in the middle-end of the very poor category. Surface winds are low. The ventilation is likely to stay low for today (Sunday) and marginal deterioration in AQI is forecast for tomorrow (Monday). Surface winds are forecast to improve and AQI likely to improve towards the lower end of very poor for February 16 and 17,” Safar said in its daily bulletin on Sunday.Meanwhile, Delhi woke up to a foggy morning as forecast by India Meteorological Department (IMD). The minimum temperature is likely to be at 10 degrees Celsius (°C) while maximum temperature is predicted to be at 29°C.The minimum temperature on Sunday was 8.6°C which was two degree lower than the normal and the maximum temperature was 28.7°C-- five notches above normal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-aqi-improves-marginally-stays-in-very-poor-category-101613357629445.html
15-02-2021||Delhi||Farmers’ protest: Key Delhi borders shut, traffic diverted||Delhi’s borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh remained closed at multiple points on Monday as the ongoing farmers’ agitation entered its 82nd day on Monday. Farmers continue to camp at the Singhu, Ghazipur, and Tikri borders, affecting vehicular movement between Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, and Haryana. The Noida to Delhi carriageway has been closed since the protesters began their demonstration there. The Delhi to Noida carriageway is open. Also Read | Farmers hold torchlight march in honour of fallen Pulwama soldiersFor motorists coming to Delhi from Uttar Pradesh, Ghazipur border has been closed. The traffic police advised commuters to take routes passing through DND, Karkari Mod, and Shahadra to travel to Ghaziabad. The entry and exit points between Delhi and Haryana, passing through Singhu, Tikri, Auchandi, Piau Maniyari and Saboli and Mangesh, remain closed. The traffic police have advised commuters to use alternate routes via Lampur Safiabad, Palla and Singhu school toll tax borders. Traffic has been diverted from Mukarba and GTK Road. Traffic police have suggested commuters avoid Outer Ring Road, GTK Road and NH-44. The other border routes such as the Delhi-Gurgaon and Delhi-Faridabad stretches can be used for travelling between the two states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/farmers-protest-key-delhi-borders-shut-traffic-diverted-101613357448105.html
15-02-2021||Ranchi||Dacoits gun down passenger in bus robbery in Jharkhand||A group of armed men shot dead a bus passenger and looted cash and ornaments over worth ₹2.50 lakh near the border of Dhanbad and Giridih districts in Jharkhand early morning on Sunday, a police official said.The deceased passenger was identified as Abhay Kumar of Kharha village of Nawada district in Bihar. He had gone to Kolkata with his friend Manish Kumar to buy ornaments and clothes for Kumar’s elder brother’s marriage.After the robbery, the criminals got down from the bus. The bus driver then rushed Abhay Kumar to Meena general hospital located on the Grand Trunk road at Dumri, where doctors declared him dead, said Dumri police station officer-in-charge, Raju Kumar Munda.“Body has been sent to the Giridih Sadar hospital for post-mortem,” Munda added.The robbery occurred between 3.30 am and 4 am while the bus was on the way to Biharsharif, Bihar from Kolkata. Dacoits, reportedly half a dozen in numbers, had boarded the bus at Kolkata Md Ali Park posing as passengers and committed the crime when the bus reached Dhanbad- Giridih border early morning.Also Read: Ahead of Vasant Panchami, Jharkhand artisans make Covid vaccine-themed goddessAn eyewitness said the robbers wore masks and held the driver and the conductor of the bus at gunpoint early in the morning while robbing the passengers, who were woken up from sleep. Abhay Kumar was shot in the chest when he resisted the robbers. After Abhay was shot down, frightened passengers handed over cash and other valuables to the robbers. “Since it was dark, we did not know the location of the bus. The robbery lasted for around half-an-hour in the running bus after which they got down and fled,” said the passenger.Dumri police officer-in-charge Raju Kumar Munda reached the crime spot on the GT Road after getting information about the crime.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/dacoits-gun-down-passenger-in-bus-robbery-in-jharkhand-101613356511970.html
15-02-2021||Delhi||Water supply in parts of Delhi likely to be hit due to Uttarakhand glacier burst||Aam Aadmi Party leader and vice chairperson of Delhi Jal Board Raghav Chadha on Sunday informed that parts of the national capital are likely to face inadequate water supply as a fallout of the glacier burst in Uttarakhand that led to flash floods in the hill state’s Chamoli district.In a series of tweets, Chadha urged residents to use water judiciously as two of the city’s water treatment plants were not operating at their full capacity following the disruptions due to Uttarakhand calamity.“In the aftermath of #UttarakhandDisaster, turbidity in raw water fetched by Delhi from Upper Ganga Canal has increased to unprecedented levels (8000 NTU). As a result, @DelhiJalBoard's Sonia Vihar & Bhagirathi Water Treatment Plants currently operating at reduced capacity,” the DLB vice chairperson tweeted.Chadha informed about the areas that were likely to face water shortage and assured that arrangement will be made to assist them. “Water supply in parts of South, East and North East Delhi is likely to be affected. We urge citizens to use water judiciously. Water tankers etc. in adequate numbers are being deployed and all possible efforts being made to reduce turbidity,” he wrote in another post on the microblogging site.What is turbidity?Chadha also explained what is meant by turbidity. “Turbidity is the measure of relative clarity of a liquid. Turbidity is measured in Nephelometric Turbidity Units (NTU). High turbidity can be caused by debris, silt, mud, algae, plant pieces, melting glaciers, sawdust, wood ashes or chemicals in the water,” he tweeted.Uttarakhand glacial burstA glacier broke in the Tapovan-Reni area of Chamoli district last Sunday, which led to massive flooding in Dhauliganga and Alaknanda rivers and damaged houses and the nearby Rishiganga power project.The rescue and search operations were briefly halted at NTPC’s Tapovan hydel project on Thursday afternoon after police in Uttarakhand issued an alert over rising water levels in the Alaknanda river and its tributary Dhauliganga, officials said. As rescue operations continued for the ninth day at Tapovan Tunnel in Chamoli’s Joshimath, so far 53 bodies have been retrieved, the State Disaster Response Force was quoted as saying by ANI.The Uttarakhand Police has said the Alaknanda river at Srinagar in Pauri Garhwal is now flowing at a normal level and no alert has been issued by the district administration in this regard, according to ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/water-supply-in-parts-of-delhi-likely-to-be-hit-due-to-uttarakhand-glacier-burst-101613356506487.html
15-02-2021||Chandigarh||J&K scraps 15 NOCs, opens door for investors||To revive the business sector and boost investor confidence with a business-friendly environment, the Jammu and Kashmir administration has approved a series of measures for simplifying business establishment process, an official spokesperson said on Sunday.As per the decision taken by the Administrative Council (AC), which met under the chairpersonship of lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha here on Saturday, the pre-requisite ‘no objection certificates’ (NoCs) or approvals have been relaxed for setting up of a business unit, the spokesman said.He said the Udyog Aadhaar memorandum as per the condition of the Government of India would be the only requirement for a business unit to be set up.Earlier, as many as 15 NoCs or clearances were required for a business unit to be established, which have now been reduced to a bare minimum.“These bare minimum NoCs/approvals shall be required subsequently, for which two sets of single-window committees have been established — one for business units coming up within industrial estates and another committee for units outside the industrial estates,” the spokesman said.He said these committees would ensure time-bound issuance of the NoCs or approvals pertaining to power connection, water connection and building plan as per specified timelines on a case-to-case basis.Further, the spokesman said a divisional-level committee has been approved, which would periodically monitor the working of the committees and address issues, if any, related to issuance of NoCs or approvals.“No pre-requisite approvals shall be required as a general rule except for NoCs/ approvals from departments like pollution control board (CTE/CTO), NoC from fire and emergency department, change of land use from revenue department, etc, wherever applicable,” the spokesman said.The lieutenant governor said consistent policy actions are being taken to encourage large-scale investment, innovation, restoring Jammu & Kashmir’s advantage in resources and skilled workforce to create a business-friendly environment and drive economic growth.“The recent decisions taken by the government in business sector including new Industrial Developmental Scheme will give a fillip to Jammu and Kashmir’s economy.“These ambitious structural reforms will not only improve J&K’s ranking in the Ease of Doing Business Index but also create an unshakeable foundation for business entities, industries planning to invest in the Union Territory,” Sinha observed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jk-scraps-15-nocs-opens-door-for-investors-101613356368168.html
15-02-2021||Delhi||Delhi Metro to go contactless as DMRC pushes for QR code, RuPay-based ticketing||Spurred on by the pandemic, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) has decided to introduce Quick Response (QR) codes and other digital payment-based systems on its network to make ticketing contactless. The Metro has invited Expression of Interest from private firms to upgrade its existing Automatic Fare Collection (AFC) system to enable QR code, bank account and RuPay based ticketing on its network.Currently, the QR code-based ticketing system is available only on Delhi Metro’s airport express line. The tickets on the airport express line are issued using a mobile application and the commuters have to scan the QR code ticket, which is sent on the user’s mobile phone, at the AFC gate at the station. Apart from the QR code facility, the airport Metro also allows the use of National Common Mobility Card (NCMC), which was launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in December last year.In the QR code system, users have to register on the mobile application, Ridlr, using mobile number and email ID and buy QR tickets by selecting the starting point, the destination station and the number of passengers who will travel. At a time, a maximum of six tickets can be purchased. Metro users can use their credit or debit card (new cards which have NCMC facility) while travelling on Metro’s airport express.The Metro now plans to make the QR code system available on its nine corridors, spread over 314 kilometres, and 245 stations by 2022. DMRC official said that this is being done following the National Common Mobility Card standard model specified by the Union housing and urban affairs ministry. The DMRC’s average daily ridership is 2.86 million and it served 100 crore riders in the financial year 2019-20.Anuj Dayal, executive director, corporate communication, DMRC, said, “DMRC has invited expression of interest for implementation of QR code, EMV (enabled Account Based Ticketing (Master/VISA), and RuPay based ticketing.”The expression of interest also includes upgrading and maintenance of the existing AFC technology. Currently, Metro users have to swipe the Metro travel card or token against the AFC gates to gain entry.DMRC officials said that the entry AFC system on all corridors developed in Phase I, II and III will have to be upgraded. “There is a need for comprehensive maintenance of the AFC system of our Phase I, II and III stations. The existing AFC technology and infrastructure (hardware and software) needs to be updated. The key dates for delivery and commissioning will be detailed out in the Request for Proposal document,” said Dayal.As per the expression of interest document, the work will be awarded for a period of almost 11.5 years, including five years of operation and maintenance, from date of commencement.While DMRC has been planning to upgrade its ticketing system to become cashless for a while, the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic has now only made the need for such technology a necessity.The NCMC will allow passengers with RuPay debit cards, issued in the last 20 months by nearly 23 banks, to be swiped for Metro travel.” It is currently available only on the Airport Express line. The NCMC will enable seamless travel across public transport modes in the country besides shopping and purchases, said the official.Metro services were closed for a period of 169 days last year due to the pandemic. The Centre had allowed Metro operations to resume in September but in a graded manner and with social distancing inside trains and on stations. As part of preventive measures, the DMRC has stopped the sale of tokens at its counters on Metro stations. Currently, metro users have to use DMRC’s travel card while commuting. While Metro trains continue to operate on 50% occupancy, transport and health experts say, contactless ticketing will have long term benefits for different reasons.Sewa Ram, professor of transport planning at the School of Planning and Architecture, said, “This is a good move. In the next few years, there will be different modes of transportation — such as RRTS — will be available. While infrastructure integration is already being done by various agencies to provide seamless travel to commuters, common mobility card will be an added benefit. In the long run it will help in collecting data about passenger movement which will prove beneficial in improving the public transport services. But this facility should also be extended to feeder system.”Public health experts say that while the vaccine will soon be available for the public at large, people will have to continue to observe social distancing, hand hygiene and other basic precautions. Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department community medicine, Safdarjung hospital, said, “QR code ticketing will help in ensuring public safety. But hygiene in public transport and other preventive measure should continue.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-metro-to-go-cashless-touchfree-101613340496585.html
15-02-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt schools to focus on weak Class 10, 12 students||With less than three months to go for the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) board examination for students of classes 10 and 12, teachers and principals of Delhi government schools said they are concerned about low-scoring children who were promoted from classes 9 and 11 as per a revised assessment policy involving scores based on assignment and grace marks.The move led to a significant increase in pass percentages for students of classes 9 and 11. In May last year, HT had reported that the pass percentage in class 9 had gone up from 58.6% in the previous academic session to 64.5%. For class 11, this number went from 84.8% to 96.2%.Awadhesh Kumar Jha, head of Sarvodaya co-ed Vidyalaya in Rohini Sector 8, said most schools, including his, are engaging in targeted intervention for these students. “Children who were promoted on the basis of revised promotion policy are mostly the ones who weren’t able to attend online classes during the pandemic and don’t attend offline classes now..”Last year following the Covid-19 lockdown, the Delhi government had devised a one-time revised promotion policy for students of class 9 and 11 where students were promoted using grace marks and assignments. Students who could not appear for their exams either due to the pandemic or the Delhi riots were given marks proportional to their mid-term results as well.A senior education department official, who asked not be named, said, “These students are on the radar of our teachers and targeted interventions are being made for their learning. Schools have made a list of these students and are monitoring their performance and attendance regularly. Apart from sufficient writing practice and regular tests, teachers are focusing on lessons which will help students score easily. Additionally, teachers have ‘adopted’ such students and will look after the performance of that particular student.”In addition to these, schools and teachers have devised their own methods to address the learning gaps. For instance, Jha said he had divided students into two groups on the basis of how they were promoted — via grace marks or assignment. “This helped teachers focus their attention to a homogenous group. We are now planning to print three sets of sample papers prepared by the education department for a particular subject, write the answers on those papers, and distribute among these students,” he said.Bijesh Kumar Sharma, principal of Shaheed Hemu Kalani Sarvodaya Bal Vidyalaya, said the school had also taken help from the local community. “We have a lot of Afghan students who face language issues, or visually-impaired children who need assistance. Since we have been involved with the local community for the past few years, we roped in homemakers, volunteers, or members of resident welfare associations or non-governmental organisations (NGOs) who could help us,” he said.Several principals said many among these students were not attending offline classes that started last month due to a host of reasons. Many were either untraceable, while some are now engaged in other work.Mudassir Jahan, head of school at Sarvodaya Kanya Vidyalaya at Noor Nagar, said, “The attendance for these students is also low and we are trying to get them to school. We have made announcements through local mosques, asking students to attend for classes. The challenge here is that these students have to be motivated more than others to even attend school.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-schools-to-focus-on-weak-class-10-12-students-101613340303157.html
15-02-2021||Delhi||Man nabbed for giving saline jabs to students||The police have booked a 20-year-old college student for allegedly giving normal saline injections to students of classes 6-9 who used to take tuitions from him in east Delhi’s Mandawali.The suspect told the police during questioning that he did so to boost memory of his students. He said picked up the idea from videos on the internet, said an officer who is associated with the probe. The suspect has been detained for “detailed investigation” and booked under section 336 of the IPC for acts endangering human life or personal safety of others.Police said so far none of the parents of the suspect’s students have reported any medical complications to their children because of the injections. They are all, however, being medically examined, the police said.Another investigator said the matter was reported on Saturday when one of the students, a resident of the same neighbourhood, returned home with the injection after telling the suspect that he would take it from a doctor known to his parents. The child showed the injection to his parents and told them that they were getting the jab at the coaching centre to boost their memory, the investigator said quoting information given by the suspect.The parents of the child reported the matter to the police. They handed over the fluid to a team from Mandawali police station.Deputy commissioner of police (east) Deepak Yadav said during initial examination it was found that the liquid was NS solution (normal sodium chloride). “We also found that the tuition teacher is a second year gradation student. He told police that he saw on YouTube that the memory of the children improves if NS solution is administered to them. He was booked under section 336 of the IPC for acts endangering human life or personal safety of others,” Yadav said.The DCP said tuition teacher was yet to be formally arrested. “The matter is being probed from all possible angles,” he said.Normal saline is a prescription medicine used for fluid and electrolyte replenishment for intravenous administration. Faster heart beat, fever are among probable side effects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/man-nabbed-for-giving-saline-jabs-to-students-101613339114664.html
15-02-2021||Delhi||Food trucks need prep to roll in Delhi: Get set for meals on wheels||Delhiites may soon be able to indulge in different cuisines — from Asian and Lebanese to regional favourites — at a food truck, without having to drive down to NCR! According to recent reports, North Delhi Municipal Corporation and South Delhi Municipal Corporation will soon issue licences for food trucks and carts, bringing back the world of meals on wheels to the Capital. Promote Delhi’s rich food cultureFood truck owners and restaurateurs feel this move, long in the pipeline, will promote the multi-regional food culture that Delhi boasts of. Hershvardhan Kumar, who owns a food truck in Dwarka, says, “It was legal to park food trucks in Delhi until authorities decided against issuing new licenses over a decade ago... Now, I hope to expand to North Campus and Greater Kailash.”An alternative experience for foodiesFood truck culture is a rage across the world, particularly attracting young professionals, and the concept has found favour in several Indian cities as well. Restaurateur Saurabh Khanijo, who introduced the food trucks Wanchai By Kylin, calls the return of food trucks to Delhi’s streets a “good news” for food lovers as well as mobile eatery business owners, as it allows everyone to enjoy a “diverse range of experiences”. Food truck spaces, a popular feature in the NCR, such as Sector 29 Leisure Valley Parking in Gurugram, can be replicated in Delhi as well, feels Khanijo. Need for designated spaces and hygieneTo ensure the sustainability of food truck culture in Delhi, Khanijo states that certain amenities must be taken care of first. “There needs to be designated areas where we can park, make sanitary seating arrangement, have mist fans in summer,” he says. Jyoti Ganapathi, who runs a food truck business named Dosa Inc, along with her partner Satya, adds that there also needs to be a proper procedural understanding between business owners and the authorities. “We understand that food trucks can’t be permitted on congested streets. However, clarity will be needed on whether we’ll be expected to park permanently or come and go according to fixed hours. The existing vending zones also need to be updated... Running water supply, fixed metre reading, waste disposal system — these need to be put into place to make sure food trucks serving on the roads can adhere to hygiene standards,” she explains, adding on an enthusiastic note, “We’d love to have places like Dilli Haat or Hauz Khas be made into food truck lots.” Author tweets @bhagat_mallikaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/food-trucks-need-prep-to-roll-in-delhi-get-set-for-meals-on-wheels-101613338802231.html
15-02-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Capital’s most beautiful door, perhaps||Found. At long last, Delhi’s arguably most beautiful door has been discovered. It doesn’t have a doorbell. It’s not in any of the forts or palaces, or museums. Surely not in the bungalow districts of Golf Links or Vasant Vihar. It doesn’t belong to a temple, nor to a mosque. It’s not part of any grand haveli. It is in Old Delhi, true. But not in Gali Naughara Street, famous for its old houses and doorways.It is somewhere you might never have stepped in. Gali Badliyan is a part of Gali Chooriwallan street, a kind of long winding alley, the turning to it so discreet and the street itself so ordinary that one needs to be very optimistic to imagine finding there a thing of great beauty.The entrance to a private house with rust-coloured walls and a finely sculpted balcony, the very sight of the wooden door takes the breath away. The primary aspect of its uniqueness is that, unlike doorways of such nature, it’s not broad at all, but very narrow. The door itself is like a coffee table art book. Its entire surface is sculpted with sceneries seeming to depict countless legends and stories. One pane shows a hunter, with a moustache and hat, aiming his gun towards a lion, himself running after a deer — a hapless deer, that seems to be plunging into a ravine.Another pane is the very antithesis of the aforementioned violence. It shows a vase crowded with a dense offering of flowers, the stalks disproportionately tall compared to the vase. The panes at the bottom show parrots.The door is the centerpiece of an arched niche, accompanied with taaks and columns, covered in decorations that look like creamy icings on a cake.The building has a set of two smaller doors, sculpted too. Though exquisite, they have the misfortune to be too close to the main door, which is such a grand distraction. A marble plaque on the wall identifies the building as Lala Ramsaran Das Bhawan.The door faces a lane full of residences, some of them seemingly uninhabited. A few passersby are walking in front of the door without tossing a look at it. Their supreme disinterest to such gloriousness, too, is breathtaking.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-capital-s-most-beautiful-door-perhaps-101613333913469.html
15-02-2021||Other||Ludhiana municipal polls: 73.9% voters turn up to seal fate of 112||A whopping 73.9% voters came out to vote for elections to the six municipal councils in Ludhiana district on Sunday.However, in view of the Covid-19 pandemic and foggy weather, the voter percentage recorded a dip from the last elections in 2015, when 81% people had cast their votes.Municipal elections were held for 112 wards in Khanna, Jagraon, Samrala, Raikot, Doraha and Payal.As voting started at 8am and ended at 4pm, 69.7% voters cast their vote in Khanna, 67.7% in Jagraon, 74% in Samrala, 73.9% in Raikot, 74.8% in Doraha and 83.1% in Payal.Two nagar panchayat bypolls were also held – for ward number 8 (general) in Mullanpur Dakha and ward number 6 of Sahnewal – where 68.5% and 61.2%, respectively, polling was recorded – bringing the total turnout across the district on Sunday at 71%.Counting of votes will be done on February 17 and results will be declared the same day.The largest council in the district, Khanna, with 33 wards, recorded less than 70% polling compared to the 77% turnout in the previous polls in 2015. Out of the 2.03 lakh registered voters across the six councils in Ludhiana, 93,584 are in Khanna, including 49,121 males and 44,461 females.Payal recorded the highest polling at 83.1%, followed by Doraha with 74.8%.Due to foggy weather, the day started with low polling across all municipalities.While 14.1% votes were polled till 10am in Samrala, voting percentage remained dismal at 18.7% till 10am at Raikot. Similarly, just 12.7% voters came out to exercise their franchise in Khanna till 10am, while in Payal the figure was 16.81% till this time.Voting picked up after 2pm, when 69% votes were polled in all.In Raikot, party workers were seen visiting houses and urging the residents to visit the polling booths after 2pm. Some supporters even ferried the elderly to the polling booths in their vehicles. Officials dealing with the election process said the dip in the voter turnout could be attributed to these elections being the first since the Covid-19 outbreak in Ludhiana, adding that drop was also a reflection of free and fair polling.Voters of all ages come forwardAt a number of polling booths across Payal, Doraha, Khanna, Jagraon and Raikot, a large number of youngsters, mostly in their 20s, were seen escorting their elderly family members to the polling booths.At other places, adults had brought their children along. “I wanted to show my six-year-old daughter the voting process. It is important to vote and I have never missed any election,” said Jatinder Singh, a 35-year-old resident of Khanna.Senior citizens were seen in large number at all polling booths. A 90-year-old voter, Om Parkash, showed his indomitable spirit by arriving in a wheelchair, along with a glucose drip. He had never missed a chance to vote all his life, he said enthusiastically.The chance to vote for the first time had youngsters all enthused.The first-timers, who came to the polling stations with their family members or friends, said they were excited to be a part of the process and the youth should come forward to elect educated and unbiased candidates for a better future. “It is exciting to be a part of the democratic process. It was my first time, so I was bit nervous, but my grandfather joined me,” said Gursimran Singh, 20, with his grandfather Mohinder Singh, 79, beaming behind him.Most give masks the go-byWhile the election staff and all police officials on duty were sporting face masks, majority of the voters, even the elderly, arrived without masks. At some places, those on election duty were seen directing the voters to wear masks, but to no avail.(With inputs by Harsimran Singh Batra and Mohit Khanna)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-municipal-polls-73-9-voters-turn-up-to-seal-fate-of-112-101613333266243.html
15-02-2021||Chandigarh||Civic polls: 9 hurt in stone-pelting in Rupnagar, booth capturing alleged in Samana||Polling passed off peacefully in Patiala, Ropar and Fatehgarh Sahib districts, except some skirmishes and an instance of stone pelting in which nine persons were injured. In Samana Nagar council, Congress workers were accused of manhandling the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) candidate and former MC President Kapoor Chand Bansal, after which former SAD minister Surjit Singh Rakhra, along with supporters, blocked the Samana-Patiala highway. Congress and SAD also clashed in Rupnagar with six persons sustaining injuries. The clash happened in ward number 1, after both accused each other of distributing cash for votes. Nine persons sustained injuries during the stone pelting. SAD alleged booth capturing in Patran, Samana, Nabha and other MC areas. The BJP kept a low-profile, and did not set up a booth outside the polling station.“Congress has murdered democracy and has let loose its goons. Booths were captured with the help of police. The election was rigged,” alleged Rakhra. Local MLA Rajinder Singh claimed that it was Rakhra and his supporters, who were trying to enter the polling station, leading to heated arguments. “No one has manhandled anyone. Rakhra has lost his constituency. Rakha’s allegations are baseless,” he said. At Nabha, SAD alleged police high-handedness. Rajpura recorded 64.1% polling; Nabha recorded 70.5%, Samana 67 % and Patran recorded highest 78.7%, said DC Kumar Amit.In Fatehgarh Sahib district, Khamano recorded 79%; in Rupnagar district, Kiratpur Sahib recorded 84%. *************************************Glitches in EVMs  at Bathinda, Moga
15-02-2021||Chandigarh||Civic polls: Skirmishes in Majha, opposition alleges bogus voting||r With overall turnout of 70%, polling for two municipal corporations (MCs), ten municipal councils, three nagar panchayats and for ward number 37 of Amritsar corporation passed off peacefully in Majha. Stray incidents of violence was reported from Patti and Bhikhwind of Tarn Taran district and Batala of Gurdaspur district, where clashes took place between political parties.The two MCs that went to polls were Pathankot and Batala; councils were Ramdas, Majitha, Jandiala Guru, Gurdaspur, Dhariwal, Sri Hargobindpur, Qadian, Fatehgarh Churian, Sujanpur and Patti. Three nagar panchayats of Ajnala, Rayya and Bhikhiwind also voted.Police resort to cane-charge after clashes in Patti, BhikhiwindIn Patti and Bhikihiwind, AAP and SAD workers alleged that the Congress goons captured polling booths and assaulted them. In Patti, an AAP worker Manbir Singh received a bullet injury on his leg during one such clash. Some video clips of the clashes have gone viral on social media. AAP’s Patti in-charge Ranjit Singh Cheema said, “In presence of heavy police deployment, goons of the Congress captured most booths in the city. Rampant bogus voting also took place. Police took our party member Laljit Singh Bhullar into custody, but no action was taken against Congress workers.” Congress’ Patti MLA Harminder Singh Gill said, “Sensing defeat, AAP is making excuses to defame the Congress.” In Bhikhiwind’s ward number 4, SAD workers alleged that Congress workers captured booths, leading to a clash. Former BJP district president and former chairman of the Batala Improvement Trust Suresh Bhatia was injured on his head in clash held with Congress workers in ward number 40. Sharma accused Congress of booth capturing. Batala DSP Parvinder Kaur dismissed these allegations.Punjab BJP chief stages dharna in PathanotPathankot remained peaceful. The BJP, however, alleged that its worker was thrashed by Congress members. BJP state president Ashwani Sharma staged a dharna on the issue. “The Congress has indulged in hooliganism under Punjab Police patronage. The house of a BJP supporter was attacked in ward number 25 by a Congress’ goon and his aides with sharp-edged weapons, including swords. Police are facilitating such attacks. We will be on dharna until the culprits are arrested,” claimed Sharma. Cops were deployed in large numbers in ward number 37 of Amritsar City as agitating farmers gathered there to oppose the BJP. ****************************************************||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/civic-polls-skirmishes-in-majha-opposition-alleges-bogus-voting-101613332185332.html
15-02-2021||Chandigarh||Civic polls: 71% turnout in Doaba, 15 booked for violence in Sultanpur Lodhi||Seventy one per cent voters cast ballot on Sunday in 23 urban local bodies of the Doaba region comprising Hoshiarpur, Jalandhar, Kapurthala and Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar districts. One incident each of poll violence took place in Sultanpur Lodhi town of Kapurthala and Hoshiarpur. In Sultanpur Lodhi, 15 persons were booked in two cases of violence after the Congress and Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) workers clashed and hurled stones at each other near the block and panchayat development office in the evening. The Akali workers alleged that Congress activists even fired bullets in the air. “The ruling party workers tried to disrupt the election process right under the administration’s nose,” SAD leader Sajjan Singh Cheema said. Kapurthala senior superintendent of police (SSP) Kanwardeep Kaur said they are identifying those involved in the incident involving firing in the air. “At least two persons were injured in the stone pelting,” she said.In Hoshiarpur district’s Garhdiwala town, BJP district (rural) president Sanjiv Minhas’ car was attacked by some people said to be farmers’ sympathisers. The incident took place when a crowd gathered outside the Bharatiya Yuva Morcha office and asked him to leave. When he came out, the protesters raised anti-BJP slogans and hit his car with rods. The police gave him a safe passage. The BJP leader alleged that the attack was carried out by Congress goons. There was a huge enthusiasm in voters but booths of BJP witnessed comparatively low turnout. The Kapurthala municipal corporation (MC) witnessed 62.16% polling with 42,201 votes while in Sultanpur Lodhi, 75.89% voters cast ballot. The district polled 69.16 votes. In Hoshiarpur district, the polling went off largely peacefully with over 72.15% votes polled in 10 municipalities. In Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar, 69.71% votes were polled in SBS Nagar, Rahon and Banga civic bodies. In ward no 12 of SBS Nagar, former MC president Lalit Pathak Ballu came in direct confrontation with local Congress MLA Angad Singh Saini. SBS Nagar SSP Alka Meena said they had stationed adequate personnel in the hypersensitive or sensitive wards.In Jalandhar district, 71.92% voter turnout was witnessed in 8 urban local bodies. As many as 74.74% women exercised their franchise against 71.92% votes polled by men.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/civic-polls-71-turnout-in-doaba-15-booked-for-violence-in-sultanpur-lodhi-101613332065211.html
15-02-2021||Chandigarh||71% turnout in Punjab municipal polls amid stray violence||Barring few incidents of scuffle between workers of political parties and isolated cases of police resorting to cane-charging to disperse unruly crowds, polling for 117 civic bodies in Punjab remained peaceful on Sunday. The overall turnout was 71.4%. In the previous civic body elections for six municipal corporations held in February 2015, 69% polling was recorded. This time, elections have also been held for eight municipal corporations. These polls have been delayed by at least six months due to the coronavirus pandemic. Polling in Mohali district was the lowest at 60%, while the highest turnout was 83% in Mansa. Punjab cabinet ministers were seen in the field welcoming voters to polling stations. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) cadre and its leaders remained low-key. The SAD and the BJP contested these polls separately, after the Akalis broke up with the saffron party last year over the three agri-laws passed in Parliament.The State Election Commission (SEC) had set up 4,102 polling stations, of which 1,708 were sensitive and 861 hypersensitive. Over 19,000 police personnel were deployed. At least five persons were injured in scuffles between political parties. At most places, the saffron party was unable to put up its polling camps, generally done by the workers of all political parties outside polling stations, with farmers opposing this. In these elections, 9,222 candidates were in fray for municipal corporations and A and B-grade councils. Of total nominees, 2,037 are from the Congress; 1,606 of the principal opposition Aam Aadmi Party (AAP); 1,569 of the SAD, and 1,003 nominees belong to the BJP. Elections for C-level councils are being held without party symbols. Three firing incidents were reported, including two in Patti and Bhikhwind towns of border district Tarn Taran. At both places, the workers of Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and the Congress clashed after an argument over allegations of bogus voting. Firing was also reported from Sultanpur Lodhi in Jalandhar. A BJP leader was hurt in a clash with Congress supporters in Batala. In a group clash between SAD supporters and the Congress in Fatehgarh Churian, police resorted to a mild cane-charge to disperse crowd. In Pathankot, BJP state president Ashwini Sharma staged a dharna, alleging that a party worker’s house was attacked with swords by Congress workers. The State Election Commission (SEC) has termed the polls as completely peaceful, saying that it did not receive any complaint. SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal wrote on twitter, “Failed on all fronts, Congress leaders knew they would lose, so they resorted to booth capturing and violence. (It’s a) shame on the state election commission for its absolute incompetence.” Congress state president Sunil Jakhar thanked voters for peaceful polls. The counting of votes will take place on February 17 and it will be a dry day for liquor in the state. *****************************StrapAllegations of bogus voting, booth capturing by oppn parties; state election commission terms polls as completely peaceful, even as state BJP chief protests in PathankotHeadlineThe highs and the lowsIntro HT brings you the top three districts in terms of the highest turnout and the lowest turnout.Highest turnout districtsMansa 83%Bathinda 79%Sangrur 77.4%Lowest turnout districtsMohali 60%Tarn Taran 63.1%Moga 69.5%||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/71-turnout-in-punjab-municipal-polls-amid-stray-violence-101613331945256.html
15-02-2021||Bhopal||Ex-BJP MLA, 23 others booked for rioting on Valentine’s Day in Madhya Pradesh||Madhya Pradesh police booked a former BJP MLA along with 23 others for rioting after they vandalised two Hookah lounges on the occasion of Valentine’s Day and misbehaved with customers on Sunday, said police.Two FIRs have been registered against 15 BJP members and seven members of the Shiv Sena at Shyamla Hills and Habibganj police stations respectively.In the first incident, "BJP leaders, on the direction of ex-BJP MLA Surendra Nath Singh, vandalised a Hookah lounge in Shyamla Hills area for allowing customers to celebrate Valentine’s Day and also misbehaved with customers present over there,” said Tarun Bhati, police station in-charge, Shyamla Hills police station.Surendra Nath Singh, with seven known people, was arrested under sections 294 (obscene comments), 427 (mischief causing damage), 147 (punishment for rioting), 148 (rioting armed with deadly weapon) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of Indian Penal Code, said Bhati. The Police are trying to nab eight others, he added.Before the arrest, Surendra Nath Singh said, “We can’t allow anyone to spoil our generation. The Valentine’s day is not a part of the culture and it promotes obscenity.”In another incident, seven Shiv Sena leaders vandalised a Hookah Lounge in Habibganj area. They misbehaved with customers present in the lounge for celebrating Valentine’s Day,” said police officers.The Police arrested seven people for rioting and causing damage, said Bhupendra Singh, city superintendent of police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/exbjp-mla-23-others-booked-for-rioting-on-valentine-s-day-in-madhya-pradesh-101613329677844.html
15-02-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali’s young voters want more approachable representatives||Young people and first-time voters, who cast their ballot at the municipal corporation (MC) elections in Mohali on Sunday, have pinned their hopes on the new dispensation to be approachable to residents and to resolve the issues timely.From safety to the control of the stray dog population, a range of issues were on the mind of the young people who voted during the MC polls. Bhavishya Bhardwaj, 21, a resident of Phase 10, Mohali, said, “The representatives of people should be approachable to people and should resolve the issues of locals timely.”The young voters appeared to have more clarity on what issues and which candidates were they voting for. “The representatives should be loyal and more young people should be given a chance for representation,” said 18-year-old Anmolpreet Kaur, a first-time voter from Phase 3B2.Pearl Bansal, 19, a resident of Phase 5, who is a first-time voter, said, “Residents, especially the young people, should feel safer. There should be a check on minors who drive without licence and cycling should be promoted in the city on the lines of Chandigarh.”Cleaner and safer societyEshaan Sandhir, 20, of Phase 3A, Mohali, said, “The society should be cleaner and safer. Everyone’s needs should be met. The issue of noise pollution should be resolved.”“The problem of stray dogs should be resolved and in the localities, proper parking lots should be made for vehicles that increase with time,” said 22-year-old Jasmeet Kaur, who lives in Phase 3A.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohalis-young-voters-want-more-approachable-representatives-101613329305851.html
15-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai almost gets back on track with train services for all||At least 15 million people have travelled by local trains on the Central, Western and Harbour lines since February 1 when the suburban train network allowed general commuters after nearly a year. All 1,774 Central Railway trains and 1,367 Western Railways trains in the network were stopped on March 23, 2020, to prevent the spread of the coronavirus pandemic.Four months later, in July, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray allowed essential care workers like doctors, nurses and medical staff to use local trains. In the following months, women, persons with disabilities, and lawyers were also allowed to travel.Now, with everyone back on the trains, restrictions have been put in place in an effort to prevent the spread of the coronavirus. The timings are staggered and it will be so till the government takes a call on complete resumption of services: 4.45am to 7am; 12pm to 4pm; 9pm to 11.30pm. Those found without a mask are fined ₹200 by the Government Railway Police. Railway Protection Force personnel have been deputed to control the crowds.A fortnight on, the positivity rate in Mumbai has begun to rise — experts cite the crowding in trains as one of the factors responsible — we speak to five Mumbaiites to ask them why they’re boarding the local. Read their profiles:‘My commute has come down from 7 hours to 2’“There is no Mumbai if there are no local trains operating,” Jyoti Nair, a resident of Dombivli, Thane said, as she took a seat in the train compartment last week. She has been travelling by local trains on the Central and Western lines for the past 20 years.The 44-year-old works as an office assistant in a private firm that sells pipe valves, located in Masjid Bunder. Her husband works with the Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) as a depot manager and her son goes to school.When Nair resumed office in August, her commute often took up to seven hours.“I began to take a bus to work. The journey took two hours in the morning and nearly five hours in the evening because of the evening rush hour. It was simply horrific,” Nair said.Not only was it expensive — Nair would spend ₹400 every day travelling in the AC bus — it also meant that she would barely get a few hours of sleep she also had to leave her home early. “I would get up by 3am to do the household work before heading to the office. I developed a back pain travelling on the bad roads,” she said.Then, in October, Nair was robbed close to the bus stop near her house.“I have never had such a terrifying experience. Somewhere near the bus stop, a few people snatched the chain I was wearing,” Nair recalled.Now that Nair takes the local, she said, her life is easier. She still leaves early — she takes the train in the earliest time slot — but she’s saving on both time, and money.“I am not just saving money but also travelling time. My commute time has come down to two hours,” said Nair.What would help is if more trains begin to ply, Nair said.Nair is not worried about crowds, she said. “Crowding inside local train compartments is bound to happen. I take precautions, wear a face mask and use hand sanitizer,” she said.‘Normalcy once all offices open’Train commuters often kept time with the 5,000-strong network of dabbawalas who delivered home-cooked food to office goers from Ambernath and Virar to Colaba and Churchgate between 12.30pm to 1.30pm every day (except Sundays). However, once the nationwide lockdown came into effect on March 25, the dabbawalas went out of work.Sandeep Gaikar, who has been a dabbawala for 30 years, missed his itinerant lifestyle. “I travelled everywhere by the local train to deliver tiffins across the city. I travelled on the Central and Harbour lines,” said the 45-year-old.Though Gaikar’s landlord waived his ₹5,000 rent for some months during the lockdown, his family faced hard days. The Kalyan resident was the only earning member of his family till the pandemic hit. As his monthly income, which ranged at around ₹15,000 came down to zero,Gaikar eventually moved back to his village in Junnar in Pune district — which he had left at 15 to work in the big city — where he farmed on his family’s small landholding. Gaikar returned to Mumbai in three months and took up a part-time gig as a security guard.Gaikar’s wife, Kavita (37) now works in a small tailoring unit while daughter, Pratiksha (18), will begin college this year. Son, Sahil (16) will now attend school in the village.“The cost of education is high in Mumbai,” Gaikar said.“It is a blessing that the local train services have finally resumed for the general public. We have suffered for one year as no other mode of public transport is possible for moving the number of tiffins we do,” Gaikar said when we met him at Sanpada station.It’s not the same however, he said. “Many dabbawalas have returned to their village. People are working from home, so there are not many tiffins to deliver,” he said.“Earlier, one dabbawala would carry 30 tiffins. Now we carry barely eight,” said Gaikar, who collects tiffins from Kalyan and delivers them to the Agricultural Produce Market Committee in Vashi.The staggered timings do not affect Gaikar. In fact, he said, he often finds the trains empty enough for him and his tiffin stand. But he isn’t happy about it.Only after all offices resume, our work will get back to normal,” he said.‘I’m worried about putting my grandmother at risk’“Travelling by local trains is a compulsion and no passenger follows the coronavirus protocol,” 21-year old Vishwa Shah said, on her way to Bandra.A student of clinical psychology at RD National College, Shah has been a regular commuter on the local trains since her school-going days.Now, a whole year after she last boarded the train, Shah, a resident of Kandivli’s Mahavir Nagar, has begun travelling to college to submit her assignments in person. Physical classes will resume on February 15 at 10am sharp, Shah said.Once classes resume, Shah will have to leave in the first slot (4.45am to 7am) of staggered timings — a full three hours before her first class. Her classes will end by 8pm, which means Shah will have to wait an hour before she takes the train back home. Shah said the other option of travelling by auto and cab is too expensive — she will have to shell out ₹500 both ways.“I don’t have any other option,” Shah said.For Shah, this is all the more worrisome as she lives with her grandparents (both 75; her grandmother is on medication for hypothyroidism) and her parents (her father aged 51 is diabetic; her 47-year-old mother does not have any co-morbidities).Travelling frequently by local trains will increase her exposure to the virus, and in turn put her family at risk, she said. “At least I follow all the coronavirus protocols and wear gloves and masks during commuting,” she said.‘Traffic made travelling by road a horror’The local train has been Kalbadevi resident Nirmal Jain’s trusted mode of transportation since he started his garment wholesale business. His business takes him to Santacruz and Thane frequently besides other parts of the city, visiting shopkeepers and increasingly, online sellers.But when the lockdown was announced in end-March 2020, thousands of businessmen like Jain were affected. The 62-year-old began to use his Hero Honda motorcycle to make his rounds once restrictions on movement were eased.From spending two hours in the local, his commute went up to four hours a day on road. “I could not travel everyday because of the cost of fuel, which increased significantly.” said Jain. “I was forced to spend four to five hours commuting. Traffic in the western suburbs and on the Eastern Freeway made travelling a horror,” he said.Now that the trains are back on track, albeit with staggered timings, Jain is happy. The lone breadwinner of his family— he lives with wife, Manju, children Swagat and Prashansa and daughter-in-law, Sohi—Jain is happy that he’s back to saving money on travelling.On average, Jain said that he spent up to ₹1,000 every day on fuel, travelling from his south Mumbai home to the western suburbs and Thane.“The fuel cost was double of what a railway pass costs. Initially I had to dip into my savings for this additional cost,” Jain said.The local train timings work well for Jain as he begins his work day only after lunch and returns late. “I finish my meal and then take a local train from Marine Lines railway station. I visit multiple shops and online store owners throughout the day and return home at night,” Jain said.Jain said that a majority of his fellow passengers stick to the protocols, but crowding is a difficult issue to manage.“A few passengers do not wear masks inside the compartment but they are immediately told off and asked to mask up by the others around them. People are knowledgeable about the virus but there are incidents of crowding inside compartments. All passengers want to board at once,” Jain said.Nevertheless, he is happy the trains have resumed. “Even with restricted timings the local trains are a boon. Like me there are other businessmen who are saving time and cutting down on travelling costs. The city will come back to normalcy as the markets slowly open,” he said.‘It’s impossible to board the train’Rakesh Patil, a 32-year-old resident of Kasara, works as a coordinator in the district collector office in Thane.“My work involves a lot of travelling,” said Patil, who lives with his wife Sadhna, 28; daughter Sarah, 4; and his brother’s family.Patil’s work involves inspection visits to forest sites. He is also required to meet officials from different government agencies like Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC), Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC).Though this involves a good deal of travelling, Patil uses the bus and other public transportation modes quite regularly. So the staggered timings do not affect him, he said.“It’s the people coming from far away areas like Igatpuri to reach Kasara station who are most affected by the restricted timings. I live close to the station,” he said.Patil has been travelling by local trains for 16 years — as a student, and later, for work — so he was excited when the trains resumed on February 1.But he gets worried when he sees crowds, Patil said. “It’s almost impossible to board a train,” he said.“It is not possible to avoid crowds completely. I wear facial masks and wash my hands regularly. It is necessary to take precautions and I follow the protocols,” Patil said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-almost-gets-back-on-track-with-train-services-for-all-101613329008419.html
15-02-2021||Chandigarh||56% voters turn up to elect new Mohali MC House||As many as 56% of the registered voters turned up to elect the 50-member General House of the Mohali municipal corporation, which went to the polls along with seven other municipal councils in the district on Sunday. Mohali (urban) saw a drop of 5% in the turnout, as compared to 61% recorded in 2015, when elections were held for the first time. Overall, the district reported 60% voter turnout, with Banur leading at 78% and Zirakpur lagging behind at 55%.In all, 901 candidates are in the fray from 195 wards in the civic bodies of Mohali, Kharar, Kurali, Dera Bassi, Zirakpur, Lalru, Banur and Nayagaon. The counting will take place on February 17. The polling largely passed off peacefully, though four people were injured in minor clashes in Dera Bassi and there was an allegation of booth capturing in Mohali city. Questions were also raised over the slow pace of work by officials at booths set up in villages and colonies. EVM glitches delay polling in LalruIt seemed like a festive occasion in several villages and towns of the municipal councils as voters started queuing up as early as 7:30am. Though officials were carrying thermal scanners at the entrance to every polling booth, most of them were found not using them. Most of the officials were also without masks despite directions issued in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Polling, which was supposed to begin at 8am across 509 booths in the district, was delayed by half an hour in Lalru due to a glitch in electronic voting machines. It took time to pick up the pace, and only 13% voters turned up in Mohali (urban) by 10am. However, the number shot up to 42% by 2pm and reached 56% in the next two hours as entry was stopped at 4pm and only those people still in the queue were allowed to vote. All political parties had set up desks at all polling booths to assist of voters. Candidates, who had expected a higher turnout, said that many voters apparently chose to stay home due to the pandemic. In Mohali, long queues were seen only at a few polling stations, in Phases 2, 3 and 7.Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan, who is also the district electoral officer and visited most of the polling booths, said: “Initially, there were some glitches, which were sorted out soon. Overall, voters expressed satisfaction over the arrangements, which included drinking water, seating and better queue management.” Dayalan said the administration will study the reasons behind the drop in turnout despite organising extensive awareness programmes, “but it seems people did not turn up due to Covid-19”. The district witnessed a multi-cornered contest between Congress, Shiromani Akali Dal, Bharatiya Janata Party and Azad Group-Aam Aadmi Party combine led by former mayor Kulwant Singh. In the previous elections to the Mohali MC, Kulwant had led the Azad group (of independents) and won 10 seats. With the support of Congress, he was elected the mayor. The five-year term of the House ended on April 26 last year. “We are satisfied with the way the elections were held. We thank the administration and police for ensuring peaceful polling,” said Kulwant. Even Punjab health minister and local MLA Balbir Singh Sidhu expressed satisfaction over the conduct of polls.Azad group candidate demands repollingParamjeet Singh Kahlon, Azad group candidate from Ward No. 10, has lodged a complaint with the state election commission against Congress candidate Amarjeet Singh Sidhu, demanding repolling in the ward.In his complaint, he alleged that police forcibly removed his polling agents from the booth in connivance with Congress workers. Balbir Singh Sidhu, who is Amarjeet’s brother, rubbished the allegations. Charanjeet Singh Brar, senior SAD leader and co-observer in Mohali, also claimed to have received reports about Congress workers deleting votes of Akali workers. “We will check it and lodge a complaint with the state election commission,” he said. Meanwhile, six men of Mauli Baidwan village were arrested for uprooting a tent pitched by BJP candidate Rakhi Pathak to assist voters at Mohali’s ward number 31. Pathak’s husband Suresh Kumar alleged that around a dozen men reached the spot around 10:30am and said they won’t let a party that has enacted anti-farmer laws to pitch a tent there.Four injured in minor clashes at Dera BassiMinor clashes left four people injured in different wards of Dera Bassi. BJP leader and lawyer Mukesh Gandhi was injured after being attacked at the party’s booth in Ward No. 12. He alleged he was attacked at the behest of a Congress candidate after he stopped the men from barging into a polling booth. The assailants were later arrested. In Ward No. 18, SAD candidate Harwinder Singh Pinka’s supporter Madan Lal was attacked with sharp-edged weapons by unknown men, who barged into his house. Madan had to be shifted to Government Medical College and Hospital in Chandigarh. A scuffle broke out between former municipal council president Harjinder Singh Rangi and Congress candidate Ranjit Singh Reddy over alleged fake votes in Ward No. 18. Police had to intervene to bring the situation under control. In Ward No. 8, a scuffle broke out between BJP candidate Nirmal Singh Nimma and Congress candidate Jaswinder Singh. Deputy superintendent of police Gurbakhshish Singh said there were minor incidents in some wards, which were being investigated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/56-voters-turn-up-to-elect-new-mohali-mc-house-101613328825640.html
15-02-2021||Chandigarh||Waste collection in Chandigarh: MC House to finalise MoU||Going ahead with its plan to take over pan-city door-to-door garbage collection, the Chandigarh municipal corporation is keeping its both options open: either the existing cart-based waste lifters get on board or it would outsource the work of helpers and drivers. On Monday, it is set to seek the approval of the MC General House on both the issues. The civic body has already received all 390 garbage collection vehicles, and is ready to extend collection of segregated waste to the entire city. The only stumbling block is the missing personnel to man its vehicles.So far, of 1,342 garbage collectors in the city, only 609 have enrolled with the MC and 147 have started working on its vehicles as helpers and drivers. Notably, last week, the main union of garbage collectors agreed to the MC’s offer. The General House will decide on the model memorandum of understanding (MoU)on Monday.For enroling garbage collectors for the MC’s takeover, various public notices were given in leading newspapers, with the last one on January 29.“For ensuring smooth functioning of the door-to-door garbage collection project, helpers may be deployed on outsource basis if the number of helpers required on these vehicles is not met with the existing waste lifters,” said an MC official, on the condition of anonymity. Various meetings have been held with representatives of garbage collector associations to finalise the MoU, said the official. Payments to collectors from the monthly utility bills, revenue from reusable garbage and insurance are some of the key features of the MoU. It will be effective from the date they start working on the garbage collection vehicles.The Door-To-Door Garbage Collectors Society, which represents majority of this unorganised sector, on February 8 gave its go ahead to the revised terms and conditions for signing the agreements between individual waste lifters and MC. Another group is still opposing the MC takeover.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/waste-collection-in-chandigarh-mc-house-to-finalise-mou-101613328585618.html
15-02-2021||Chandigarh||Safety, proper civic amenities key issues for Mohali women voters||Women who cast their vote during the Mohali municipal corporation elections on Sunday said that women’s safety, proper civic amenities and a solution to the stray cattle and dog menace are their priorities. With more women candidates in fray this time, they are hopeful that the issue of safety will be addressed by ensuring functional streetlights, increased patrolling and safe public transportation. With 50% seats reserved for them, unlike 33% in the previous election, the 50-member MC House will have at least 25 women councillors this time. Of 1.4 lakh registered voters, 68,715 are women. Palak, a resident of Phase 4, who works as an IT professional, said, “With women working round-the-clock, it is necessary to make the city safe for them. There are also many senior citizens who might fall prey to crimes. So, the MC must ensure that all street lights are working and there are no dark stretches.” “More female councillors will be elected to the MC house this time and we are hopeful that they work actively to address key issues being faced by residents,” said Drishti Singh, a homemaker living in Sector 63. Shubhangi, a resident of Sector 68, who works with a consultancy firm, said, “ Keeping in mind the increasing number of vehicles in the city, it is a must to develop multi-level parking.” Sukhwant Kaur, who lives with her family at a rented accommodation in Mataur, said, “The stray dog and cattle menace needs to be resolved on priority. The MC House also needs to address the long-pending demand for a local bus service to make transportation cost effective and safe.” Some residents also felt that councillors need to address the issue of hooliganism in Mohali markets. “With more working women in the city now, the civic body must ensure that hooliganism prevalent in city markets at night is stopped. Councillors must ensure increased patrolling in the prominent markets of the town,” said Asha Sharma, a law graduate living in Phase 5. “Traffic violators needs to be dealt with strictly to ensure safety. Youngsters zipping around without helmets, playing loud music and jumping red lights is a common sight in the city. CCTV cameras should be used to issue challans, similar to Chandigarh,” added Ridhima Kumar, a resident of Phase 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/safety-proper-civic-amenities-key-issues-for-mohali-women-voters-101613328406704.html
15-02-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University: 2.8-lakh students to take online exams||The odd-semester examinations at Panjab University and its affiliated colleges will begin from Monday in online mode.A total of 2,86,812 students of undergraduate and postgraduate courses will take the exams. The semester examination of the new batches will begin on March 8. This will be the first time that PU is conducting semester exams of all students in online mode. Last year, the varsity had conducted online exams for only the final-year students in view of the pandemic. The question papers will be available both on ugexam.puchd.ac.in and pgexam.puchd.ac.in and will have to be downloaded directly from the home page of these websites without logging in.To submit the answer sheets, students can either send a soft copy through email or upload it on the portal, or submit the hard copy in person at the institute concerned. Submission of answer sheets through both modes is not permitted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panjab-university-2-8-lakh-students-to-take-online-exams-101613328353561.html
15-02-2021||Mumbai||Greatship Rohini fire: 3 trapped crew members found dead||The Indian Coast Guard (ICG) has recovered the bodies of three crew members who were reported trapped inside the engine room of the ill-fated offshore supply ship ‘Greatship Rohini’ which caught fire on Saturday. The bodies were found on Sunday morning, in a search operation conducted jointly by 19 persons, including eight crew members of Greatship Rohini and 11 members from ICG.The bodies of two seafarers found from the tween deck area are burnt beyond recognition and a third seafarer found from the engine control room, is reported to have sustained burn injuries, said director general of shipping, Amitabh Kumar.An inquiry has been ordered and an official of the rank of joint director general, technical (principal officer MMD, Mumbai), will conduct an inquiry, said Kumar. “The cause of the will be known after proper investigation,” added Kumar.The ship was 92 nautical miles off Mumbai coast when the fire broke out, near the NQO platform of Mumbai High. A total of 18 crew members were on-board the vessel at the time of the incident. The fire started in the engine room. One officer identified as Gurbeender Singh, who works as an electro-technological officer, sustained burn injuries and was evacuated in a chopper and shifted to a hospital. He is out of danger and recuperating in the hospital, said ICG officer.As soon as the ICG operation centre received information about the fire, offshore patrol vessel Samarth was diverted to provide help. Meanwhile, a Dornier aircraft was launched for assessment of the situation. ICG ship Samarth, with its advanced external fire-fighting system, offshore vessel Priya 27, and several other boats were involved in rescue and boundary cooling operations. The major part of the fire was doused till Saturday late evening, but because of heat, it kept simmering and reigniting. The foam was used last night and today morning to douse the fire completely, said ICG officers. The coast guard officials and company’s staff members boarded the vessel at 7:30am to resume searching for missing crew members. The search was focused on the tween deck area which, also houses the engine control room. Bodies of three seafarers were found at around 10:30am. The bodies of two seafarers were found from the tween deck area and that of a third seafarer from the engine control room also reported to have sustained burn injuries. The deceased’s family have been informed. The vessel is safe but has a sad part and unfortunately lost three lives, added Kumar.Greatship Rohini is an offshore supply vessel and assists the ONGC platform. All assisting vessels were there. The Greatship Anjali towed away from the vessel to a safe place from the sensitive installation. So if there is any problem sensitive installation should not damage, added Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/greatship-rohini-fire-3-trapped-crew-members-found-dead-101613327925435.html
15-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Family functions, vacations new Covid-19 super spreaders||Amid the lifting of curbs, family gatherings for weddings and birthday parties, holidays at nearby tourist destinations and visiting families and friends outside Mumbai have now become Covid-19 super-spreader events, according to doctors.With the starting of the interstate trains and airport flights capacity increased to 85%, health care experts said a large number of Mumbaiites have started heading out for mini vacations. “People are also attending family dos. Also, the number of people who can be invited for wedding receptions has increased from the initial 50 to 200. People are tired of being indoors for almost a year and have dropped their guard. This is leading to violation of social distancing norms, not wearing masks during family. If people had been more careful, the number of new cases could have been reduced by half,” said Dr Deepak Baid, president of Association of Medical Consultants (AMC).A case in point is a 33-year-old Borivli resident, who visited her sister in Pune in early January, after 10 months. While she largely stayed indoors, her sister employed at a non-government organisation had to step out for work thrice a week. All was well till January 12, when she returned home. She developed fever with sore throat. Barring her senior citizen parents, three from the family, including her, tested positive for Sars-CoV-2 and spent eight days at Bhagwati hospital, Borivli.Also Watch | Covid update: India's new office rules; special mask coating; USA vs China“Throughout the pandemic, I have been extremely careful as my parents suffer from diabetes. After staying indoors for almost 10 months, I visited my sister for a vacation. Despite taking all precautionary measures, we still don’t know how we got infected,” she said.With the city’s Covid-19 pandemic curve flattening, the state started to ease restrictions that were imposed to break the chain and control the spread and transmission of the virus. “Sars-Cov-2—the virus that causes Covid-19 – spreads through air droplets. The virus can remain on surfaces for hours. While travelling, if people don’t wear masks and continue touching their faces frequently, the chances of getting infected are high. While travelling, it is not possible to sanitise all door handles and railings, so individual precautions are compulsory,” said Dr Vikrant Shah, infection specialist, Zen hospital.“Currently, we are observing that a majority of new cases are of those with recent travel history or those who attended a family gathering. We are getting more group infections among family members,” said Bhagyashree Kapse, ward officer of the R/C ward that covers Borivli.In yet another incident, in October, 2020, 14 people got infected when they participated in a birthday party at Andheri. As per a family member, a senior citizen who had a mild fever was present throughout the celebration. The person who was a carrier of the pathogen of Covid-19 infected 14 of them. One of the infected couples spread the virus to their parents when they went back home.“A total of 16 people were infected and six had to get hospitalised. One of them was kept on oxygen support due to breathing difficulty. The rest were home quarantined,” said a family member, requesting anonymity.Over the past seven days, Covid-19 cases in the city grew at a rate of 0.13%. However, nine wards in the city, covering Mulund, Vikhroli, Bandra, Khar, among others, have recorded higher growth rates of 0.14% to 0.21%. As per ward officers, new Covid-19 cases are mainly from non-slum areas. In Mumbai, 1,880 buildings are currently sealed and K/W ward that covers Andheri west tops the list.Medical officer health, Dr Gulnar Khan from the ward said, “Over 40% of the new patients have a history of vacation or family functions.”“Household transmission during parties can be a major source of infection. One doesn’t know if an invited guest is infected or not. So the infected particles may remain floating in the atmosphere of the house which can infect others if they don’t wear masks,” said Dr Lancelot Pinto, an epidemiologist.Dr Anita Mathew, infectious disease specialist, Fortis Hospital, Mulund, said, “We need to understand that to control the pandemic, we need a vaccine, but we can protect ourselves with basic measures such as wearing a mask, washing hands and maintaining the required physical distance at work and family functions.”Health experts seek stringent rules for defaulters. “During the start of the lockdown, the civic body was issuing fines to people who weren’t wearing masks. But now, no such action is being taken against defaulters. Until all get vaccinated, it is essential for the civic body to remain stringent and issues guidelines for travellers and family functions,” said Dr Abhijit More, a health activist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-family-functions-vacations-new-covid-19-super-spreaders-101613327805912.html
15-02-2021||Other||Mumbai: Traffic snarls near Vashi toll naka, commuters blame FASTag||The Sion-Panvel highway has been witnessing traffic snarls near Vashi toll naka over the past few weeks. The motorists have complained that despite having balance in their accounts, they are not able to pay the toll, and they end up paying cash. The others said that even as they make the payment through FASTag, the process takes a longer time, resulting in traffic snarls on the busy highway.FASTag uses radio-frequency identification (RFID), which enables automatic deduction of toll charges at NHAI toll plazas. The tag must be linked with the motorists’ adequately funded prepaid or savings/current account. After the tag account gets active, the motorists can affix the tag on the windscreen of their vehicles. It enables them to drive through toll plazas, without having to stop to pay.The Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC) introduced this system at 50% of the toll gates at Vashi toll naka around eight months ago.Farhan Azmi, restaurateur and politician from Mumbai, on Saturday, tweeted, “Over 3km long ques at the gates of #mumbai Vashi Toll. Most of the #Fasttag scanners are malfunctioning! Even though the account shows balance, you end up paying cash. Absolute chaos!! Why are we still paying #toll ? #stoppayingtoll #SpeakUp.” BN Kumar, 65, a resident of Kopar Khairane said, “On Saturday, around 4pm, I was on my way to Mumbai from Vashi. I paid through FASTag, however, it took me 25 minutes to cross a stretch of two-kilometres before reaching the toll naka.”Kamlakar Phand, chief general manager of MSRDC (toll) said, “The new FASTag system may take some time due to certain technical glitches. But we are upgrading the system and it will take us only 15 more days to complete it. There will be no delays after that.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mumbai-traffic-snarls-near-vashi-toll-naka-commuters-blame-fastag-101613327565624.html
15-02-2021||Mumbai||Parts of Maharashtra to see rainfall; Mumbai to remain dry: IMD||Parts of interior Maharashtra are expected to see rainfall accompanied by thunderstorm and lightning in the upcoming week.The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted rainfall activity Tuesday onwards in parts of Marathwada, central Maharashtra and Vidarbha owing to a trough in lower-level easterlies. The weather conditions are likely to persist for three days.While Hingoli and Nanded are likely to see rainfall from Tuesday, areas such as Kolhapur, Satara and Sangli are expected to receive rainfall from Wednesday. However, Mumbai and neighbouring areas will remain dry.Meanwhile, temperatures in the city on Sunday remained similar to that recorded on Saturday. The Santacruz station of the IMD recorded a maximum temperature of 31.4 degrees Celsius, which was 1 degree above normal and 0.1 degree above Saturday’s 31.3 degrees. Colaba recorded a maximum temperature of 29.5 degrees Celsius, which was 3 degrees below normal.The minimum temperature at Colaba was 20.5 degrees Celsius, which was 1 degree above normal. At Santacruz, the minimum temperature was 2 degrees above normal at 19.4 degrees Celsius.According to System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), the air quality remained in the moderate category on Sunday with an overall air quality index (AQI) of 186.“The air quality of Mumbai is in moderate category and predicted to remain in moderate to poor category for the next two days due to pollution coming from industrial areas of Gujarat,” said a short-range forecast by SAFAR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/parts-of-maharashtra-to-see-rainfall-mumbai-to-remain-dry-imd-101613327445684.html
15-02-2021||Mumbai||Personal Finance: Common retirement planning mistakes that you must avoid||If you’ve been reading these pieces, you’ll know that we are a keen follower of taking a long view when it comes to financial planning. Take retirement, for instance. It’s not something to take lightly, because it involves acute planning and we make many mistakes along the way. Here are a few common ones:Delayed savingsOne of the foremost rules of retirement planning is to start investing early. Investing money early in life means that you allow more time to let it grow. Raj Khosla, founder and managing director, MyMoneyMantra, an omnichannel financial services marketplace said, “One of the best friends for your retirement financial planning is ‘compounding interest,’ i.e., the earlier you start your savings, the better yield you will fetch.” What’s more, long-term investments in equity markets help to average investments and creating a corpus for retirement. Starting earlier also helps you make the best returns from equity-linked investment products. According to Vivek Jain, head-Investments, Policybazaar.com, an online portal for insurance purchase, products that promise guaranteed returns are best given the fluctuating market scenario and low-interest-rate environment. “The rate reduction in interest on bank deposits has greatly impacted the financial planning of millions of households. Some investments that guarantee returns, irrespective of the changes in market conditions and interest rates, also have an inbuilt ‘life protection’ component,” Jain said.Lack of clarityConfusion over your own financial goals — and being unsteady in your investment — is a big impediment to building your retirement corpus. As your income and allowances increase so do your expenses and responsibilities. Plan to pay for big ticket expenses like higher education, home and vehicle loans, weddings etc, through short-term or liquid investments. Add to this expenditure during emergencies and you will be able to gauge how much money you would need each month post retirement. Any kind of cash flow projection requires making correct assumptions about your financial status in future based on what you have earned, saved and invested till date. Sometimes, life may throw you a curveball like a job loss — we dealt with that in a previous piece on financial planning for an emergency.Savings not in sync with current lifestyleYour lifestyle matters while deciding to save for retirement. While planning for retirement, you must save to maintain your current lifestyle. According to Khosla, “To ensure the current lifestyle after retirement you should create a financial plan at least 30 years in advance, factoring in your life expectancy, inflation and cash flow requirements. After retirement, your focus should be on health-related expenses and monthly expenses as most of the other financial commitments such as loan repayment, child education etc will be over by then.”Zero legacy planningDo you discuss your finances with your spouse? Most couples do not realize how retirement can affect their relationship, especially, in the face of zero earnings and limited investments. Also, not many understand the relevance of including their partners in their investment making decisions. This can impact your perspective regarding savings that must last for both of you in the last years of your lives. The first step is to discuss how much you can save and invest keeping in mind your mutual goals. The concept of legacy seems far-fetched, but must be discussed and decided. Decide on what and how much you wish to set aside for your children. Buying a life insurance policy with an adequate policy term can also be another way to leave behind a legacy for your children to cherish. “Term insurance helps you avail a high sum assured cover at a low premium. The plan pays a lump sum benefit in case of a person’s premature death or disability. Thus, it provides one cost-effective insurance against all the liabilities and ensures the family is taken care of financially even in one’s absence or incapacity,” Adhil Shetty, CEO, BankBazaar, an online market place for financial products, said.Personal Finance is a weekly feature that aims to provide our readers pertinent and helpful financial information.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/personal-finance-common-retirement-planning-mistakes-that-you-must-avoid-101613326966879.html
15-02-2021||Other||Mumbai-based BARC designs first research reactor through PPP model||The Bhabha Atomic Research Centre (BARC) has designed a research reactor that can make radioisotopes available at low costs to medical and other industries. In a first, the premiere nuclear research organisation of the department of atomic energy (DAE) will share the technology with industries through a public-private partnership. This is expected to bring down costs of cancer treatment in India. Radioisotopes are radioactive isotopes that have an unstable atomic nucleus. They emit energy and particles when they change to a more stable form. Radioisotopes are widely used in nuclear medicine for diagnostics as well as to treat diseases such as cancer. The industrial uses of radioisotopes include identifications of flow malfunctions, measurement of flow parameters, evaluation of design of chemical reactors, monitoring of product quality and process efficacy. In India, all major radioisotopes are produced by the BARC, which houses research reactors in its Trombay campus and an accelerator in Kolkata. Some radioisotopes are imported from Europe, Australia and other Asian countries. Radioisotopes in India can be procured and handled only by the users duly authorised by the radiological safety division (RSD), atomic energy regulatory board (AERB). Private entities that are willing to invest in the construction of the research reactor and its processing units will get exclusive rights to process and market the radioisotopes produced in the reactor. Meanwhile, the demand for radioisotopes for nuclear medicine is on the rise. Between 2018 and 2020, the number of nuclear medicine departments in the country’s hospitals has grown from 293 to 349, according to AERB. “Typically, research reactors have facilities such as radioisotope production, testing of structural materials for its use in nuclear reactors, making neutrons available for material science studies etc. The research reactor planned by BARC primarily has facilities for radioisotope production. Apart from medical radioisotopes, provisions are also made for producing radioisotopes for industrial use like Cobalt-60, Iridium-192, Bromine-82 etc,” said an email response from the office of KN Vyas, secretary, DAE. The proposed research reactor is expected to bring down the cost of nuclear medicine, which are extensively used for cancer treatment. “As the research reactor (under planning stage) is expected to produce a relatively large quantity of radioisotopes and the associated facilities are also catering to relatively large quantities of radiopharmaceuticals, it is felt that the cost of producing radiopharmaceuticals may reduce. As the radiopharmaceuticals are being manufactured indigenously, it is expected that increased self-sufficiency will lead to cheaper radiopharmaceuticals and consequently reduce the cost of cancer treatment,” read the response from Vyas. DAE has said that it is in discussion with potential Indian and global investors and the identification of a suitable site for the reactor is in process. The research reactor is expected to come online in five years after the construct begins, said DAE.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mumbaibased-barc-designs-first-research-reactor-through-ppp-model-101613326906279.html
15-02-2021||Noida||Noida, Ghaziabad most polluted cities||The air quality of Noida, Greater Noida and Ghaziabad worsened on Sunday due to unfavourable weather conditions, officials of the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. The air quality index (AQI) bulletin released by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) stated that the twin cities of Ghaziabad and Noida stood as the most polluted across the country with an AQI of 416 (‘severe’) each.Greater Noida, which was also among the three top polluted cities, registered an AQI of 402 (‘severe’). The three cities on Sunday were the only ones among the 126 cities on the CPCB bulletin to record AQI under ‘severe’ category, CPCB said.IMD officials said that the foggy conditions, which are also leading to smog as a result of slow wind speed, will continue to prevail during the morning hours in the three cities for the next two days.“The wind speed pattern, which is anti-clockwise at present and ranging from Punjab to eastern UP, is having centred around Ghaziabad and Noida. So, the slow wind speed, coupled with smog, is affecting dispersal of pollutants,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of regional weather forecasting centre at IMD.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered ‘good’, 51 and 100 ‘satisfactory’, 101 and 200 ‘moderate’, 201 and 300 ‘poor’, 301 and 400 ‘very poor’, and above 400 is ‘severe’.Utsav Sharma, regional officer of UP pollution control board, said, “The meteorological conditions due to slow wind speed is causing pollution in both Ghaziabad and Noida. Besides, major congestion at border areas has resulted in high levels of pollution. In Ghaziabad, both Indirapuram and Vasundhara monitoring stations are highly impacted by pollution resulting out of traffic congestions.”The traffic congestions in trans-Hindon areas of Ghaziabad have resulted due to blockade of the Delhi-Meerut Expressway (DME) since December 3 last year by protesting farmers.IMD’s Srivastava also said that the foggy conditions will prevail for two more days in parts of Delhi-NCR. “In Delhi, fog will be moderate to dense while in areas like Ghaziabad and Gautam Budh Nagar, it will be dense to very dense with visibility likely to fall below 100 metres. The conditions will prevail more during the earlier part of the day from 6am to 10am. The conditions are likely to improve Tuesday onwards,” he added.The IMD officials said that the normal maximum temperature range during this time of the year is about 24 degrees Celsius but it is hovering at about 28-29 degrees Celsius at present. The minimum temperature is normal at about 10-11 degrees Celsius at present, they added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-and-ghaziabad-most-polluted-cities-101613326785965.html
15-02-2021||Noida||Low turnout for Covid vaccination: Noida, Ghaziabad told to take steps||Taking serious note of the low turnout of frontline workers during the vaccination drive against the coronavirus (Covid-19) February 11 and 12, state officials wrote to the district officials to take up suitable measures to increase the same.The letter was sent by Uttar Pradesh’s additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Awasthi to Ghaziabad and Gautam Budh Nagar district admins.Sources in the health department said that the letter has highlighted two counts – one in which more than one beneficiaries were registered on a single mobile number, and one in while some mobile numbers were either wrong or found switched off – due to which the beneficiaries could not receive messages.The letter also mentions that many frontline workers were on duty in other districts and could not come for vaccination, above sources added.“The communication has stated that more the Covid-vaccination coverage is to be increased and that those who are posted outside the district can get the shot at any session across the state. It also says that frontline workers who go for the vaccination should be given an off from work that day,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer of Ghaziabad.“We have asked different departments to expedite vaccination coverage and spread more awareness among frontline workers. Our coverage for healthcare workers was high but it reduced considerably in case of frontline workers.” Dr Gupta added.District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey did not take calls for his comments over the issue.On February 11, the turnout in Ghaziabad district stood at 45.34%, with 1,559 taking the shots out of the day’s target of 3,439. The next day, the turnout fell to 39.41%, with 1,555 getting the shot out of a target of 3,946.In Gautam Budh Nagar, only 2,518 of the target of 5,750 (43.8%) took the shots on February 11 while 2,850 out of the target of 5,625 (51%) took the shots on February 12.“We will implement all directions issued by the ACS (home) in his communication. To further increase the vaccination coverage, we are taking steps to ensure availability of frontline workers on a particular date and time. We are also taking steps to increase awareness,” said Suhas LY, district magistrate of Gautam Budh Nagar.February 11 and 12 were the first two days that the health department of Ghaziabad administered the Covaxin vaccine to beneficiaries in the district. In neighbouring Gautam Budh Nagar, Covaxin was administered first on February 12.According to guidelines from the Uttar Pradesh government, the initial sessions, from January 16 to February 5, were devoted to healthcare workers who came in large numbers to get the shots, while the later sessions – on February 11 and 12 – were primarily devoted to frontline workers which include police personnel, home guards, jail staff and employees of Nagar Palikas, among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/low-turnout-for-covid-vaccination-noida-ghaziabad-told-to-take-steps-101613326304760.html
15-02-2021||Delhi||AAP, BJP trade barbs over Mangolpuri murder, demand ₹1 crore as compensation||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Sunday criticised the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for the law and order situation in Delhi and demanded that the Central government give ₹1 crore compensation to the family of Rinku Sharma, whose murder had triggered tension in the city’s Mangolpuri area last week.The BJP hit back accusing the AAP of engaging in “petty politics” on the issue and instead demanded that the Delhi government pay ₹1 crore compensation to Sharma’s family.Sharma, who worked as a lab technician at a private hospital, was stabbed while returning home from a birthday party on Wednesday night.The murder of the 25-year-old had taken communal colours on Friday, with some leaders from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) stating on social media that Sharma was collecting money for construction of the Ram Mandir in Ayodhya.While the AAP is in charge of the elected government in Delhi, law and order (which involves the charge of the Delhi Police) comes under the purview BJP-led Central government.“The family of victim Rinku Sharma alleged that the utterance of ‘Jai Shri Ram’ has resulted in Rinku Sharma’s murder. People belonging to all communities are unsafe in Delhi, such is the law and order situation. People of Delhi voted for the BJP in the Centre in a huge majority for the last two consecutive terms, but the BJP has miserably failed to protect them. Why has Union home minister Amit Shah not visited the family of Rinku Sharma yet and why didn’t he at least tweet about this matter?” said the AAP’s national spokesperson Raghav Chadha.While the AAP won the last two Assembly elections in Delhi with thumping majorities, the BJP won all seven seats in both the 2014 and 2019 Lok Sabha polls.Chadha further said, “Is it right for the home minister of a country to go on an election campaign in West Bengal and not to be present in Delhi, when such an incident has taken place? When will the BJP-ruled Central government announce ₹1 crore compensation for the victim’s family? The Aam Aadmi Party stands with the family of Rinku Sharma and it will provide all financial assistance.”Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta, however, hit back saying, “The Arvind Kejriwal is engaging in petty politics over the issue. Where is the award wapsi movement now and where are the people who organise candle light vigils? Why have they not organised a protest yet? Kejriwal is showing solidarity with the same bunch of people. Kejriwal stands with Tahir Hussain, Sharjil Imam and other accused of Delhi riots, but he cannot visit the family of Rinku Sharma. Why? Rinku Sharma’s family was manhandled when they went to meet the CM at his residence. Why? We demand the he should pay the family ₹1 crore as compensation immediately.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/aap-bjp-trade-barbs-over-mangolpuri-murder-demand-rs-1-crore-as-compensation-101613326065444.html
15-02-2021||Delhi||NDMC to re-invite bids for its e-scooter project||The New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) will soon re-invite bids for its ambitious electric scooter project, which was earlier put on the back-burner after the concessionaire chosen the last time “did not come forward” to execute the project.Officials of the civic body said that the project was delayed mainly due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Once launched, the project aims at curbing air pollution by providing last-mile connectivity by renting out electric scooters to users in areas under its jurisdiction. It will work on NDMC’s already popular smart bike-sharing system.Dharmendra, chairman NDMC, confirmed that because of Covid-19 pandemic some projects, including the e-scooter one, had got delayed. “We had given the contract to someone, who didn’t come forward later to set up infrastructure for the same. So, we will be again bidding it out,” the NDMC chairman said.NDMC officials said that it will be the second time when fresh bids will be called.A senior NDMC official said that first bids of the project were called in early 2019 but those were rejected due to technical problems in drafting the proposals by the participant companies. The civic body later that year again floated tenders for the project and a concessionaire was appointed .“Before work could begin, the Covid pandemic struck the country and a lockdown was imposed. After that, the contractor did not show any interest in the project, citing loss in business. So, we are now going to re-invite bids very soon. Files have been sent to higher authorities for formal approval. We are looking to launch the project by the end of the year,” the official said.He added that it will take nearly six months, after allotment of a tender to the contractor, to set up the infrastructure and start operations.He further said that bidding parameters for the project will include per minute charge to hire scooters, efficiency, maximum speed and the model of the e-scooters.Another official, privy to the matter, said that as per previous bids, residents would be able to hire e-scooters for less than ₹10 for 15 minutes. He said that in the last bid, the per-minute charge was kept at 50 paisa, which would increase to 62 paisa after two hours. “The charges are likely to remain similar. However, it may change in the fresh bids. The prices will be fixed keeping in mind that the scheme remains affordable,” said the official.Under the plan, the civic body will procure 1,000 e-scooters on public-private partnership (PPP) model and will set up at 100 locations across the NDMC area. In the first phase, only 500 e-scooters will be procured and set up at 50 commuter-friendly locations — such as metro stations, bus stops, hospitals, railway stations, among others.He said that once launched, these e-scooters will help a lot in curbing pollution attracting customers who at the moment use private vehicles to travel for short distances.Users will be able to hire the vehicle through ‘NDMC-311’ mobile application. To book an e-scooter, users will have to register on the ‘NDMC-311’ app, which will help them locate a nearby e-scooter stands. Users can use the touchpad on the back of the e-scooters to unlock it through a one-time password (OTP) sent on their cellphone. The app will record the time when the scooter is unlocked and the user will be charged a fee accordingly.The e-scooters will have a range of 80 km to 100 km on full charge. One e-scooter can run with speed up to 55km per hour with maximum occupancy.Anuj Malhotra, knowledge partner to Union ministry of home affairs, and who has helped civic agencies on a number of urban mobility projects, said that the initiative will help in “pollution abatement” in the city. He, however, stressed upon developing “priority lanes” for e-vehicles and also improvement of integrated traffic management system for the success of such projects. “Introduction of e-scooters is a good effort towards reducing pollution in the city but we need a congenial atmosphere too for such projects to succeed. The authorities should now also work upon creating priority lanes, which is already being practiced in many foreign countries, for e-vehicles and pool cabs. Projects such as e-scooter or private e-vehicles will get more encouragement if we have separate lanes for such traffic,” Malhotra said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ndmc-to-re-invite-bids-for-its-e-scooter-project-101613326064851.html
15-02-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt may soon start facilitating registration of e-autos||Delhi transport minister Kailash Gahlot on Sunday kick-started the second drive of the Switch Delhi campaign by appealing to three-wheeler owners to switch to electric vehicles (EV).“The second week of the campaign will focus on outreach on the three-wheeler segment, which includes e-autos, e-rickshaws and e-carts, to accelerate their adoption… The Delhi government will soon start facilitating the registration of e-autos… Under Delhi’s EV policy, 177 three-wheeler models are available for purchase… By switching to electronic three-wheelers, a person can save around ₹29,000 per year on fuel… Scrapping incentives are also available for 68 models,” said Gahlot in a press statement.The Switch Delhi campaign was launched by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal earlier this month to promote e-vehicles in Delhi. The campaign is in lines with the government’s long-term plans to reduce air pollution in Delhi.Under Delhi’s electric vehicle policy, 177 three-wheeler models are available and eligible for purchase and scrapping incentives.The Switch Delhi campaign is an eight-week electric vehicle mass awareness campaign to sensitise Delhiites about the benefits of switching to electric vehicles. The second week of the campaign focuses on the outreach for electric three-wheelers and aims to sensitise, inform, and encourage Delhiites to adopt electric three-wheelers in the national capital, said a Delhi government statement.Three-wheelers are one of the major contributors to vehicular emissions in Delhi and the policy lays special focus on incentivising the transition of this segment to electric.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-govt-may-soon-start-facilitating-registration-of-eautos-101613326006001.html
15-02-2021||Delhi||Govt asks Covid vaccination centres to send out reminders about second jab||The Delhi government has directed all Covid-19 vaccination centres to ensure setting up a system to remind beneficiaries about the second dose of vaccine, which according to the government can be taken from any of the 261 functional vaccination centres, irrespective of where the first dose had been taken from.“All Covid-19 vaccination centres have maintained records of beneficiaries who have taken the first shot in those centres. Nodal officers in these centres have been asked to ensure that they call up each and every one of them a day ahead of their second dose. There is a system in place which is supposed to send automated text messages. But we cannot take second chance,” said the official, who did not wish to be identified.The official further said, “Also, beneficiaries can take the second dose in any centre, irrespective of where they had taken the first dose. Every centre has access to a master file concerning beneficiaries. They have to ensure that the file is properly updated and the data is appropriately fed into the government’s CoWin system.”Officials, however, made clear that beneficiaries can only receive the second dose of the same vaccine that they got in the first round.Around 1,82,000 health care and front line workers have got the first round of jabs so far.Only 1,856 beneficiaries, out of 4,319 who were scheduled for the second dose on Saturday, turned up at the centres, government records showed. On Monday, 3,598 beneficiaries are scheduled to take the second dose. For the first dose, the drive is currently open for both health workers and front line workers.Dr Suneela Garg, professor of community medicine at Maulana Azad Medical College, said: “A 28-days window between two doses is followed for most immunisation vaccines globally. I will still recommend that beneficiaries should take the second dose within a maximum gap of six weeks. It is important to note that herd immunity will come only with two doses of vaccination. Also, we need to go ahead with the drive and open it up for other priority groups.”The Delhi government has plans to open the vaccination drive for people aged over 50 years and individuals with comorbidities by March 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/govt-asks-covid-vaccination-centres-to-send-out-reminders-about-second-jab-101613325947118.html
15-02-2021||Delhi||Ghazipur flower market to get a cold storage, roads and amenities||The Delhi government will hire an agency for the redevelopment of the flower wholesale market in Ghazipur, which includes setting up amenities such as water supply, drainage, roads, constructing a centrally air-conditioned building and a cold storage facility in another two years – a move that is likely to improve the supply of several varieties of flower in the Capital.The government has issued a tender for the project estimated to cost around ₹197.45 crore, for which the bids are open till March 5, said a senior government official and according to documents that HT has seen.“We are developing a modern flower market in Ghazipur. The facilities will be helpful for the traders, customers and hundreds of people who work in the market. The cold storage facility, in particular, will be immensely helpful in terms of scaling up supply, which will eventually increase the scale of flower trade in Delhi,” said Vijay Sisodia, chairperson of the agricultural produce market committee for flowers in Ghazipur.Read more: Waste-to-energy unit inaugurated at Ghazipur marketFlower markets in Mehrauli, Fatehpuri and Baba Kharak Singh Marg (Connaught Place) were merged with a flower market in Ghazipur in 2011, giving shape to the present-day wholesale market that is said to be the biggest in Delhi. There are 420-odd licensed flower traders who operate from the market, and together they record an average annual turnout of around ₹250 crore, said a senior government official who did not wish to be identified, adding that the trade is seasonal and witnesses a sharp rise during festivities and marriage seasons.Flowers from across states – including Karnataka, West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Maharashtra and Himachal Pradesh – arrive in the market. It also records imports from countries that include New Zealand, the Netherlands, South Africa and Thailand. The most common import varieties are protea, banksia, hydrangea, amaryllis, waxflower, calla lily and varieties of tulips. The most common export destinations are the US, the UK, Germany and UAE, said traders.Read more: Disha Ravi shared Google 'toolkit' with Greta Thunberg, say Delhi PoliceGiven the perishable nature of the product, cold storage is mandatory for the business. Some of them – such as daisies and tulips – need it more than others, said traders. Currently, most traders have either set up small storages within their shops or they hire services of cold storage facilities scattered across the city and manage with ice slabs and cold water in their shops.“Because of inadequate cold storage facilities, traders often have to limit their stocks. This is one reason why wholesale traders in the city often run out of roses, tulips, daisies and gerberas when there is a spike in demand, especially if it is summer. A large centralised cold storage for the wholesale market would help addressing such shortages,” said Kisan Saini, a wholesale flower trader from Ghazipur.Neeraj Singh of Virender florist, a retailer in New Friends Colony, said: The shortage has a cascading effect, which starts at the wholesale level and affects stocks of neighbourhood retail florists. The supply often fails to meet the demand. A central storage in Ghazipur can bridge the gap”Read more: Delhi-NCR experienced 13 mild earthquakes in 2020: Govt dataThe tender document for the redevelopment project emphasises on a common cold storage facility that is supposed to be set up in the basement – measuring 26,440 square metre – of a yet-to-be constructed building. Other facilities for which the government is looking forward to hiring an agency include a parking area, better sheds for trade and ensuring other facilities that include proper power connections, water supply, toilets, drainage, internal roads, and a firefighting system, said the document.Anil Sharma, COO retail and franchise in Ferns N Petals, said: “A large cold storage facility in Delhi would increase the availability of several varieties of flowers throughout the year. For instance, tulips of Srinagar and varieties of orchids that come from the Northeastern states. Secondly, it would help bring uniformity in terms of prices, especially during the periods when demands witness a sharp spike. Third, traders will be more comfortable importing flowers and maintaining larger stocks”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ghazipur-flower-market-to-get-a-cold-storage-roads-and-amenities-101613325945590.html
15-02-2021||Delhi||South Delhi parks, north Delhi schools to start yoga classes soon||The South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) is likely to start appointing instructors from March-end for its project of starting yoga classes in parks managed by the civic body.The south civic body had in its budget presented before the standing committee last month proposed starting of yoga classes in its parks.The civic body will charge a nominal fee from participants for the classes, with officials saying that the move will help increase SDMC’s revenue.Narendra Chawla, the south corporation’s leader of the house, said that the civic body has started the process of finalising modalities of the project and appoint yoga instructors to educate people about the exercise.“The proposal has already been passed and now we are planning to implement it as soon as possible. We plan to start appointing yoga professionals at parks from the end of the next month (March) to teach people about right postures and asanas. We are in touch with some NGOs and organisations who deal in this sector to hire yoga professionals. We will hire instructors on a contractual basis,” Chawla said.He added that people often use SDMC parks to practice yoga, so it has been decided that the civic body will provide professional teachers, and in return charge a nominal fee from the participants. “We are yet to decide the fee but it will be nominal. Modalities of the project are being worked out. This move will help us in generating more revenue,” Chawla said.According to SDMC officials, the civic body manages around 6,400 small and big parks in its jurisdiction.On similar lines, the North Delhi Municipal Corporation has also decided to introduce yoga classes for students at its schools. The north corporation authorities said that the move is aimed at improving fitness and immunity toits students.North civic body officials said that students will be taught about yoga and its asanas by schools teachers only. “Special yoga instructors will be engaged to impart yoga training to municipal teachers. We will hire qualified trainers on contract. This proposal has been approved by the north corporation in its final budget last week,” the official said.There are 714 primary schools which are run by the North Delhi Municipal Corporation. Nearly 9,000 teachers are employed across these schools by the civic body.Yogesh Verma, leader of the House in north corporation, said that the project is likely to start from March this year.“These yoga classes will be only for children studying at our primary schools. These will be conducted three days in a week. First period of the day at schools will be reserved for yoga classes where students are taught about importance of yoga and its asanas,” Verma said.He added that to train teachers,trainers will be hired. “We are in touch with a few NGOs and have asked them to conduct a few training sessions for our teachers so that they can teach students yoga in a better way. The training is likely to start in March and yoga classes at schools will start when schools reopen,” Verma said.KS Mehra, former commissioner of the unified MCD, said that both the initiative are good and aimed at public welfare. He said that introduction of yoga classes at schools will help in improving physical fitness of students.In reference to hiring professionals for yoga classes at SDMC park, Mehra said that the move will offer better service to the public. “But it (yoga at parks by professionals) should not be free because no one cares about anything which is offered free of cost. The civic body should take a nominal fee, hence helping it generate more revenue and also paying professionals with that money,” Mehra said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/south-delhi-parks-north-delhi-schools-to-start-yoga-classes-soon-101613325885957.html
15-02-2021||Other||Coding courses for kids pick up amid pandemic, but experts raise red flags||For eight-year-old Aashna Sheth, the lockdown period turned out to be a time to learn new things online. Aashna, who studies at a south Mumbai school, learnt mandala art and also took up an online coding course for beginners. Over the past few months, she has created her own website and is also working on developing an app to address the problem of hunger in India.With children cooped in their homes owing to the pandemic and the resultant shift to online learning since March 2020, parents are insisting on children to learn coding.“We wanted to take up an activity, and coding seemed to be an interesting option because Aashna is really interested in computers,” said her mother, Namrata.Several experts are, however, worried about the negative repercussions that programmes offered by ed-tech companies could have on young minds. Over the past one year, several engineers and technology enthusiasts have been publicly flagging concerns about coding programmes that are currently being offered in the market.In mid-2020, Pradeep Poonia and Dr Aniruddha Malpani started noticing issues in the way companies that teach coding to students operate. They later began creating awareness among parents about what they said were false claims made by ed-tech companies to sell their coding programmes.“Indian parents might get swayed to get the first movers advantage, thinking that their kids will get an edge over other children, but that won’t happen. What these six year olds will learn in a year, a high school kid can learn in a couple of days. And coding won’t make anyone smarter,” said Poonia, an engineer.He added, “These companies are selling coding by telling it will make the children logical, but first one needs to be logical and then learn coding. When companies claim they can teach kids machine learning and AI (artificial intelligence), that’s a complete sham. Without subjects like calculus, probability etc. which are taught in Class 11 and Class 12, no one can actually understand the mathematical models behind the codes.”Poonia’s campaign on social media, which made a reference to advertisements released by WhiteHat Jr that promised big fat packages for students who learnt coding, became a hit. Soon enough, the company filed a Rs20 crore defamation suit against Poonia, and the case is still being heard in Delhi high court. It also sued Dr Malpani over the matter.Coding programmes in India cost between Rs6,000 and Rs5 lakh, depending on the difficulty level of the course and the number of sessions opted by the child.Several companies offer ‘free trial classes’ and ‘easy EMI (equated monthly instalments)’ options to lure parents into taking up the programmes. These programmes are offered to children between the ages of three and 15. In many cases, parents are promised that coding would make their children eligible for the top paying tech jobs in the Silicon Valley in the future.Dr Malpani, an angel investor who funds social impact start-ups, said ed-tech companies are fleecing parents by repackaging freely available content with tacky advertisements and false claims.“If a child is genuinely interested in trying out coding, they can use open source websites like code.org which are free to use and can teach them the concepts required at their own pace. In fact, the programmes offered by ed-tech companies are not even teaching real coding to the kids. They are just teaching them to move blocks in an assisted environment. Even if the child learns something, the content that the firms are teaching has already become obsolete,” added Malpani.Most ed-tech companies who are offering coding for students have seen a surge in the demand for its various programmes after the lockdown in March 2020. For instance, Toppr, an ed-tech platform has seen a 500% surge in the demand for coding programmes post lockdown. Super coders, a programme launched by Vedantu in April 2020, already has more than 1 lakh registered students. Of them, over 50,000 students have already taken coding classes through the portal. WhiteHat Jr, a company which runs four different levels of the programme – Beginner, Intermediate, Advanced and Professional – for students in Class 1-9, has over 1.5 lakh students across India, the United States, the United Kingdom, New Zealand and Australia and conduct more than 40,000 classes every day.Swati Popat Vats, president of the Early Childhood Association who has written a book about coding for kids, said that while coding opens up a lot of possibilities for higher order thinking among children, a fair amount of caution in how it is taught is the key.“When you teach implementation before understanding then there is a problem with coding and that is the mistake by many companies that sell coding. Analog comes before digital, which means screen-less coding before teaching the coding language. Coding is a language with which we communicate with computers, and like in any language you teach the sounds, letters, speaking first before writing an essay. Similarly in coding, children should be taught the hands-on basics of sequencing, algorithms, debugging, conditionals etc. with games and activities before they can use these to programme,” she added.There is a concern among experts that the obsession for coding might put pressure on children into taking up yet another activity which is driven around fierce competition, and an expectation to excel. City-based psychiatrist Sagar Mundada said, “Kids can instead be taught to build social skills by taking up hobbies and pursuing group activities instead of remaining glued to the screen and taking up coding. Parents should not obsess about something just because everybody seems to be doing it. This would put an additional burden on the kids,” he added.Abhit Kalsotra, co-founder, GTROPY Systems, a location-based analytics company, has worked with some big tech companies such as Microsoft and Nokia in the past. He said, “If everyone is getting a job in Silicon Valley, why do we need entrance exams to get into top engineering colleges? Let’s talk about a hypothetical example: Google starts putting IoT (Internet of things) sensors in football to monitor the physics when any player touches and kicks the ball. Now will Google hire guys who have done such drag-and-drop coding or engineers who have passion for physics and can write codes well?”Karan Bajaj, founder and CEO of WhiteHat Jr, believes that any seismic shift in a field is met with some resistance.“Coding is a tool which allows a child to build and create things, empowers and makes them confident of their natural destiny as builders and creators. The outcome is not that significant as much as the process is. While there are several open platforms available to learn coding, we all know that there is a dramatic difference between a personalised training and self-learning as children need feedback, recognition, and encouragement during their early years which self-learning can be limited to offer.”While the movement against the coding market for children is still very active on social media, Ruchita Dar Shah, a parent who runs online parenting platform First Moms Club, said parents need to be extra cautious before jumping the coding bandwagon.“While there is no harm to enrol children who are genuinely interested in such courses, I am worried that off late it has become an obsession for parents, so much so that they expect returns from it, like expecting kids to develop websites or apps instead of just letting them learn for. For children who are especially younger, it makes no sense to force them into an activity which they are too young to understand or develop a liking,” she added.Poonia said even as the movement against these programmes is picking up, it needs to be amplified further across different parts of the country. Many like him worry that the lack of awareness about such programmes especially among rural and less wealthy parents might have disastrous consequences. “Parents save a lot of money for the education of their children and when companies mislead them, it is really disturbing,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/coding-courses-for-kids-pick-up-amid-pandemic-but-experts-raise-red-flags-101613324446027.html
15-02-2021||World||Trump allies slam Republicans who voted to convict him in impeachment trial||Donald Trump’s allies lashed out at the Republican senators who voted to convict him in the impeachment trial touched off by last month’s Capitol insurrection, showing the challenge the party would face in breaking with the former president after his acquittal.State parties in Louisiana and North Carolina moved within hours of the trial’s conclusion to censure Republican senators who voted to convict Trump on Saturday, a sign of his following among the GOP’s rank and file. Senator Lindsey Graham said Sunday that “the Trump movement is alive and well” as he reveled in the former president’s dominance of the party after the acquittal.The North Carolina Republican Party’s central committee will meet at 8 p.m. to discuss Senator Richard Burr’s support for impeachment, spokesperson Tim Wigginton said on Monday. State party Chairman Michael Whatley said Saturday that the retiring Republican’s vote “to convict in a trial that he declared unconstitutional is shocking and disappointing.”The rebukes underscore the former president’s role as a force for Republicans, even as it’s still not clear how active he plans to be in shaping the GOP in the next election cycle and beyond.Trump has suggested he might run for president again in 2024. Even if he doesn’t make another bid for the White House, and even without his social media dominance, the former president remains an asset to candidates he backs, potentially helping to turn out GOP voters on behalf of loyalists.He also may be a threat to his Republican opponents, including some of the seven GOP senators who voted to convict the former president on Saturday, and the 10 House members who voted for his impeachment in January.Looking for RevengeTrump is said to be eager to exact revenge on those who crossed him. And conservative Republicans are already lining up to challenge Trump’s Republican foes in primaries.In Wyoming, state senator Anthony Bouchard has announced a bid to unseat Representative Liz Cheney, the third-ranked Republican in the House, who voted to impeach Trump. In a fund-raising pitch, Bouchard suggested voters return the favor. Cheney has already been censured by her state party.Another of the 10 Republicans, Representative Jaime Herrera Beutler of Washington State, drew the wrath of Representative Marjorie Taylor Greene over the weekend. The controversial first-term lawmaker from Georgia, who has touted her ties with Trump, called Herrera Beutler a “tool” for Democrats, and warned that “the Trump loyal 75 million are watching.”Some in Trump’s circle are already seeking to leverage the president’s popularity with their own campaigns for office, including former White House press secretary Sarah Sanders, who’s running to be governor of Arkansas. Graham predicted the president’s daughter-in-law, Lara Trump, may seek election to fill Burr’s seat in the Senate when he retires in 2022.‘Excited About 2022’“She represents the future of the Republican Party,” Graham said of Lara Trump on “Fox News Sunday.”The South Carolina senator said he spoke with Trump after the verdict and will travel to Florida soon for a meeting, mirroring House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy’s pilgrimage to Trump’s Mar-a-Lago estate in Palm Beach last month.“He’s ready to move on and rebuild the Republican Party. He’s excited about 2022 and I’m going to go down to talk with him next week, play a little golf in Florida,” Graham said.It would be a dangerous political mistake to sideline him, Graham said. “The most potent force in the Republican Party is President Trump,” he said. “We need Trump-plus.”While some Republicans cling fiercely to the former president, the conclusion of the impeachment trial has thrust into the open a conflict between the party’s populist and establishment wings.“We are going to have a real battle for the soul of the Republican Party over the next couple of years,” said Maryland’s Republican Governor Larry Hogan, who added on CNN that he would have voted in favor of Trump’s conviction.Balancing ActSenate GOP leader Mitch McConnell attempted to straddled the tension Saturday with a vote to acquit Trump followed minutes later by a speech excoriating the former president as “practically and morally responsible” for the Jan. 6 storming of the Capitol. Graham said McConnell had hurt the party by doing so.Republican senators Lisa Murkowski and Bill Cassidy defended their votes against Trump as doing their duty under their oaths to uphold the Constitution. They faulted Trump for insisting the election had been stolen for months and then failing to intervene even as protesters stormed the Capitol, interrupting the certification of Electoral College votes.While 68% of Americans don’t want Trump to remain a major political figure, 57% of Republican or Republican-leaning voters do, according to Pew poll taken in the aftermath of the attack.Hogan, who’s twice won office as a Republican in a heavily Democrat state, sought to seize the moment and purge the party of Trump’s influence.“There was a hostile takeover of the Republican party,” he said on NBC. “We’ve got to move on from the cult of Donald Trump and return to the basic principles that the party has always stood for.”Cassidy also sought to minimize Trump’s future grip on the party. “His force wanes,” Cassidy said on ABC’s “This Week.” “The Republican Party is more than just one person.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-allies-slam-republicans-who-voted-to-convict-him-in-impeachment-trial-101613409389023.html
15-02-2021||World||The superspreaders behind top Covid-19 conspiracy theories||As the coronavirus spread across the globe, so too did speculation about its origins. Perhaps the virus escaped from a lab. Maybe it was engineered as a bioweapon.Legitimate questions about the virus created perfect conditions for conspiracy theories. In the absence of knowledge, guesswork and propaganda flourished.College professors with no evidence or training in virology were touted as experts. Anonymous social media users posed as high-level intelligence officials. And from China to Iran to Russia to the United States, governments amplified claims for their own motives.The Associated Press collaborated with the Atlantic Council’s Digital Forensic Research Lab on a nine-month investigation to identify the people and organizations behind some of the most viral misinformation about the origins of the coronavirus.Their claims were explosive. Their evidence was weak. These are the superspreaders.FRANCIS BOYLEWHO HE IS: A Harvard-trained law professor at the University of Illinois, Boyle drafted a 1989 law banning biological weapons and has advised the nation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Palestinian Authority.Boyle has no academic degree in virology or biology but is a longstanding critic of research on pathogens. He has claimed Israeli intelligence was involved in the 1993 World Trade Center bombing; that SARS, the swine flu and Ebola have been genetically modified; and that West Nile virus and Lyme disease escaped from a U.S. biowarfare lab. He has also claimed that Microsoft founder Bill Gates “was involved” in the spread of Zika.COVID CLAIM: Boyle says the coronavirus is a genetically engineered bioweapon that escaped from a high-level lab in Wuhan, China. He maintains it shows signs of nanotechnological tinkering and the insertion of proteins from HIV, the human immunodeficiency virus. He alleges that U.S. researchers helped create it, and that thousands of doctors, scientists, and elected leaders are conspiring to hide the truth.Boyle promoted his claim in an email to a list of news organizations and personal contacts on Jan. 24, 2020. That same day, he was interviewed on a podcast called “Geopolitics and Empire.” That podcast was cited by a little-known Indian website, GreatGameIndia, and went viral, with Boyle’s comments picked up and featured in Iranian-state TV, Russian state media, and fringe websites in the U.S. and around the world. He's since repeated his claims on Alex Jones' show Infowars.EVIDENCE? Boyle bases his argument on circumstantial evidence: the presence of a Biosafety Level 4 lab in Wuhan, the fact that other viruses have escaped from other labs in the past, and his belief that governments around the world are engaged in a secret arms race over biological weapons.Biosafety Level 4 labs - or BSL4 labs - have the highest level of biosafety precautions.“It seemed to me that obviously, this came out of the Wuhan BSL 4,” Boyle told The Associated Press.A World Heath Organization team concluded it was extremely unlikely the virus escaped from the Wuhan lab, and other experts have said the virus shows no signs of genetic manipulation.___GREATGAMEINDIAWHAT IT IS: A website that was an early promoter of the theory that the coronavirus was engineered.Its Jan. 26, 2020, story on “Coronavirus bioweapon-How China Stole the Coronavirus From Canada and Weaponized It” was picked up by far-right financial blog Zero Hedge and shared to thousands of social media users before it was promoted by conservative website RedStateWatcher and received more than 6 million engagements.COVID CLAIM: GreatGameIndia claims that the virus, which has now killed more than 2 million people worldwide, was first found in the lungs of a Saudi man and then sent to labs in the Netherlands and then Canada, where it was stolen by Chinese scientists. The article relies in part on speculation from Dany Shoham, a virologist and former lieutenant colonel in Israeli military intelligence.Shoham was quoted discussing the possibility that COVID is linked to bioweapon research in a Jan. 26, 2020, article in the conservative U.S. newspaper The Washington Times. In that article, Shoham was quoted saying there was no evidence to support the idea that the virus has escaped from a lab, but GreatGameIndia did not include that context in its piece.“We do stand by our report,” said website co-founder Shelley Kasli wrote in an email. “In fact, recently Canadians released documents which corroborated our findings with Chinese scientists... A lot of information is still classified.”EVIDENCE? The coronavirus most likely first appeared in humans after jumping from an animal, a World Health Organization panel announced this month, saying an alternate theory that the virus leaked from a Chinese lab was unlikely.America's top scientists have likewise concluded the virus is of natural origin, citing clues in its genome and its similarity to SARS, or severe acute respiratory syndrome. Vincent Racaniello, a professor of microbiology and immunology at Columbia University, who has been studying the virus since its genome was first recorded, has said it is clear that the virus was not engineered or accidentally released.“It is something that is clearly selected in nature,” Racaniello said. “There are two examples where the sequence tells us that humans had no hand in making this virus because they would not have known to do these things.”___THE CENTRE FOR RESEARCH ON GLOBALIZATIONWHAT IT IS: The Montreal-based center publishes articles on global politics and policy, including a healthy dose of conspiracy theories on vaccines and the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks. It’s led by Michel Chossudovsky, a professor emeritus of economics at the University of Ottawa and a conspiracy theorist who has argued the U.S. military can control the weather.The center publishes authors from around the world — many of whom have advanced baseless claims about the origins of the outbreak. In February, for instance, the center published an interview with Igor Nikulin suggesting the coronavirus was a U.S. bioweapon created to target Chinese people.The center’s website, globalresearch.ca., “has become deeply enmeshed in Russia’s broader disinformation and propaganda ecosystem” by peddling anti-U.S. conspiracy theories, according to a 2020 U.S. State Department report which found that seven of its supposed writers do not even exist but were created by Russian military intelligence.COVID CLAIM: While the center has published several articles about the virus, one suggesting it originated in the U.S. caught the attention of top Chinese officials.On March 12, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian retweeted an article published by the center titled: "China’s Coronavirus: A Shocking Update. Did The Virus Originate in the US?”“This article is very much important to each and every one of us,” he posted in English on Twitter. “Please read and retweet it. COVID-19: Further Evidence that the Virus Originated in the US.”He also tweeted: “It might be US army who brought the epidemic to Wuhan. Be transparent! Make public your data! US owe us an explanation.”The story by Larry Romanoff, a regular author at the center, cites several debunked theories, including one that members of the U.S. military brought the virus to China during the Military World Games in fall 2019. Romanoff concludes that it has now “been proven” that the virus originated from outside of China, despite scientific consensus that it did.EVIDENCE? The World Health Organization has concluded that the coronavirus emerged in China, where the first cases and deaths were reported. No evidence has surfaced to suggest the virus was imported into China by the U.S.Chossudovsky and Romanoff did not respond to repeated messages seeking comment. Romanoff's biography lists him as a visiting professor at Fudan University in Shanghai, but he is not listed among the university's faculty. The university did not respond to an email asking about Romanoff's employment.Romanoff's original article was taken down in the spring, but Zhao's tweet remains up.___IGOR NIKULINWHO IS HE? A four-time failed political candidate, Nikulin is prominently quoted in Russian state media and fringe publications in the west as a biologist and former weapons inspector in Iraq who served on a U.N. commission on biological and chemical weapons in the 1990s.COVID CLAIM: Nikulin argues the U.S. created the virus and used it to attack China. He first voiced the belief in a Jan. 20, 2020, story by Zvezda, a state media outlet tied to the Russian military. He appeared on Russian state TV at least 18 times between Jan. 27, 2020, and late April of that year.Once the virus reached the U.S., Nikulin changed his theory, saying “globalists” were using the virus to depopulate the earth.Nikulin has expressed support for weaponizing misinformation to hurt the U.S. in the past. On his website, he suggests claiming the U.S. created HIV as a way to weaken America from within. Russian intelligence mounted a similar 1980s disinformation campaign dubbed “Operation INFEKTION.”“If you prove and declare... that the virus was bred in American laboratories, the American economy will collapse under the onslaught of billions of lawsuits by millions of AIDS carriers around the world,” Nikulin wrote on his website.EVIDENCE? Nikulin offered no evidence to support his assertions, and there are reasons to doubt his veracity.Former U.N. weapons inspector Richard Butler, for whom Nikulin claims to have worked, said he had no memory of Nikulin, and that his story sounded “sloppily fabricated, and not credible.”No U.N. records could be found to confirm his employment.In an exchange with the AP over Facebook, Nikulin insisted his claims and background are accurate, though he said some records from U.N. work were destroyed in an American bombing during the Iraq invasion.When told that Butler didn't know him, Nikulin responded “This is his opinion."___GREG RUBINIWHO HE IS: Greg Rubini is the name of an internet conspiracy theorist who claims to have high-level contacts in intelligence and listed his location on Twitter as “classified,” until he was kicked off the platform. His posts have been retweeted thousands of times by supporters of QAnon, a conspiracy theory centered on the baseless belief that Trump is waging a secret campaign against enemies in the “deep state” and a secret sect of satanic pedophiles and cannibals.COVID CLAIM: Rubini has tweeted that Dr. Anthony Fauci created the coronavirus and that it was used as a bioweapon to reduce the world's population and undermine Trump.EVIDENCE? Rubini's doesn’t appear to be the intelligence insider that he pretends to be.Buzzfeed attempted to track down Rubini last year and determined it is the alias of a 61-year-old Italian man who has worked in marketing and music promotions. A previous version of his Twitter bio indicates he is a fan of classic rock and the films of Stanley Kubrick.Attempts to reach Rubini online and through business contacts were unsuccessful.Rubini has bristled at efforts to verify his claims. When a social media user asked: “My question to you @GregRubini is, ‘Where and what is your proof?’ Rubini responded curtly: “And my question is: why should I give it to you?”Twitter suspended Rubini's account in November 2020 for repeated violations of its policies.______KEVIN BARRETTWHO HE IS: A former lecturer on Islam at the University of Wisconsin-Madison, Barrett left the university amid criticism for his claims that the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks were orchestrated by people linked to the U.S. and Israeli governments.Barrett calls himself “a professional conspiracy theorist, for want of a better term” and has argued government conspiracies were behind the 2004 Madrid bombing, the 2005 London bombing, the 2013 Boston Marathon bombing and the 2016 Orlando nightclub shooting.COVID CLAIM: Barrett said he is “80%” sure coronavirus was created by elements within the U.S. government as a bioweapon and used to attack China.Iran was a secondary target, he has argued. Writing for Iran’s PressTV, he said the early outbreak in that country “suggests that the Americans and/or their partners the Israelis... may have deliberately attacked Iran.”Barrett further detailed his views during an interview with the AP.“It seemed fairly obvious to me that the first hypothesis one would look at when something as extraordinary as this COVID pandemic hits, is that it would be a US bio-war strike,” he said.EVIDENCE? Barrett cited reports that the US warned its allies in November 2019 about a dangerous virus emerging from China. Barrett said that’s long before authorities in China knew about the severity of the outbreak.Official sources have denied issuing any warning. If the U.S. did know about the virus that soon, it was likely thanks to intelligence sources within China, which may have known about the virus as early as November 2019, according to former Secretary of State Mike Pompeo.___LUC MONTAGNIERWHO HE IS: Montagnier is a world-renowned virologist who won the Nobel prize in 2008 for discovering HIV.COVID CLAIM: During an April interview with the French news channel CNews, Montagnier claimed that the coronavirus did not originate in nature and was manipulated. Montagnier said that in the process of making the vaccine for AIDS, someone took the genetic material and added it to the coronavirus. Montagnier cites a retracted paper published in January from Indian scientists who had said they had found sequences of HIV in the coronavirus. AP made multiple unsuccessful attempts to contact Montagnier.EVIDENCE: Experts who have looked at the genome sequence of the virus have said it has no HIV-1 sequences. In January, Indian scientists published a paper on bioRXIV, a repository for scientific papers that have not yet been peer-reviewed or published in a traditional scientific journal. The paper said that the scientists had found “uncanny similarity of unique inserts" in COVID-19 and HIV. Social media users picked up the paper as proof that the virus was engineered. As soon as it was published, the scientific community widely debunked the paper on social media. It was later withdrawn.___SUPREME LEADER ALI KHAMENEI and HOSSEIN SALAMIWHO THEY ARE: Khamenei is the second and current Supreme Leader of the Islamic Republic of Iran. He has the final say on all matters of state, including the economy, military and health divisions.Since being elected to office in 1981, Khamenei has maintained his skeptical view of the U.S. as Iran’s foremost enemy. The tensions between the two countries boiled over in 2018 when Trump pulled the U.S. out of the Iran nuclear deal and reimposed crippling sanctions. At the time, Khamenei remarked, “I said from the first day: Don’t trust America.”Hossein Salami was appointed by Khamenei as commander of Iran’s Revolutionary Guard in April 2019. He leads the country’s paramilitary force that oversees Iran’s ballistic missile program and responds to threats from both inside and outside the country.COVID CLAIM: Salami declared on March 5, 2020, that Iran was engaged in a fight against a virus that might be the product of an American biological attack. On those grounds, Salami ordered a Ground Force Biological Defense Maneuver to test the country’s ability to combat a biological attack. Beginning March 16, the Ground Force, in close collaboration with the Health Ministry, began holding nationwide biodefense drills.Khamenei was among the first and most powerful world leaders to suggest the coronavirus could be a biological weapon created by the U.S. During his annual address on March 22 to millions of Iranians for the Persian New Year, Khamenei questioned why the U.S. would offer aid to countries like Iran if they themselves were suffering and accused of making the virus.Khamenei went on to refuse U.S. assistance, saying “possibly (U.S.) medicine is a way to spread the virus more." Last month, he refused to accept coronavirus vaccines manufactured in Britain and the U.S., calling them “forbidden.” The Iranian Mission to the United Nations in New York did not respond to multiple requests for comment.EVIDENCE: There is no evidence that the U.S. created the virus or used it as a weapon to attack Iran.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/the-superspreaders-behind-top-covid-19-conspiracy-theories-101613408790403.html
15-02-2021||World||Boris Johnson urged to open UK schools 'slowly' to avoid virus surge||The U.K. government is facing pressure from scientists and teaching unions to reopen schools slowly next month, amid fears that getting all pupils back at once could fuel a resurgence in the pandemic.Prime Minister Boris Johnson confirmed Monday that reopening schools from March 8 is the priority as the government considers how to ease virus restrictions, but said ministers have not yet decided if all age groups will return to classrooms at the same time.Given the uncertainty about how schools reopening will affect the virus reproduction rate, there’s a case for “slightly staggering” pupils’ return so the youngest go first, Mike Tildesley, a Warwick University academic who advises the government on pandemic modeling, said in a briefing Monday. “With any form of relaxation we need to approach it with an element of caution.”Johnson Aims to Ease U.K. Lockdown, With Schools Back FirstThe U.K. took a phased approach after the first lockdown in spring, so only children in the first two years and final year of primary school could go back first. But Johnson is considering ordering all age groups back on March 8, the Sunday Times reported, provided infection rates continue to fall.Johnson is due to set out his “road map” for ending lockdown in a statement on Feb. 22, and has vowed to give schools two weeks’ notice to prepare. He said Monday he wants to see “progress that is cautious and irreversible.” In a briefing, his spokesman declined to comment on details of the plan.“We are committed to fully reopening schools as soon as the public health picture allows, and it is hoped that we will be able to do this from March 8,” a spokesperson for the Department for Education said in a statement.‘Phased Return’Teachers’ unions also urged caution over the pace of school reopening. “There is no point in bringing all children back at once if this immediately causes a spike in coronavirus infection rates which forces another lockdown,” said Geoff Barton, general secretary of the Association of School and College Leaders, adding that all options -- including a “phased return” -- should remain open.Schools in England have been closed in a third national lockdown since Jan. 5. One in six pupils may never be able to catch up on school time lost during the pandemic, Children’s Commissioner for England Anne Longfield warned Sunday.It’s also a critical part of Johnson’s push to reopen the economy, which suffered its worst hit in more than 300 years last year. Many parents have been forced to juggle jobs with helping their children with virtual lessons.The plan to reopen on March 8 was boosted Monday by a study from Warwick University which suggested that schools are not a “significant driver of outbreaks” in the community.Even so, researchers warned some measures would still be needed when schools reopen, including ensuring that parents don’t mix at pick-up and drop-off times, and that people continue to work at home wherever possible.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/boris-johnson-urged-to-open-uk-schools-slowly-to-avoid-virus-surge-101613408221244.html
15-02-2021||World||Rio de Janeiro halts Covid-19 shots as vaccine supplies dry up||The Brazilian city of Rio de Janeiro will halt Covid-19 vaccinations from Wednesday due to a lack of shots, city officials said on MondayVaccinations will only begin when a new lot of shots arrives, they said, with delivery not expected until next week.The halt to vaccinations illustrates the patchy nature of Brazil's vaccine rollout, which has been blighted with delays and a lack of supplies."I have received the news that new doses did not arrive," Rio's Mayor Eduardo Paes wrote on Twitter. "Today we are vaccinating 84-year-olds and tomorrow 83-year-olds. We are ready and have already vaccinated 244,852 people. We just need the vaccine to arrive ... it should come next week."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/rio-de-janeiro-halts-covid-19-shots-as-vaccine-supplies-dry-up-101613407242114.html
15-02-2021||World||WHO lists AstraZeneca's Covid-19 vaccine for emergency use||The World Health Organization (WHO) on Monday listed AstraZeneca and Oxford University's Covid-19 vaccine for emergency use, widening access to the relatively inexpensive shot in the developing world.A WHO statement said it had approved the vaccine as produced by AstraZeneca-SKBio (Republic of Korea) and the Serum Institute of India."We now have all the pieces in place for the rapid distribution of vaccines. But we still need to scale up production," said Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, WHO Director-General.The listing by the UN health agency comes days after a WHO panel provided interim recommendations on the vaccine, saying two doses with an interval of around 8 to 12 weeks must be given to all adults, and can be used in countries with the South African variant of the coronavirus as well.The AstraZeneca/Oxford shot has been hailed because it is cheaper and easier to distribute than some rivals, including Pfizer/BioNTech's , which was listed for emergency use by the WHO late in December.Nearly 109 million people have been reported to be infected by the novel coronavirus globally and more than 2.5 million have died, according to a Reuters tally.Infections have been reported in more than 210 countries and territories since the first cases were identified in China in December 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/who-lists-astrazeneca-s-covid-19-vaccine-for-emergency-use-101613407482705.html
15-02-2021||World||Last-minute extension of Italian ski ban dismays Mario Draghi's new allies||Allies of new Prime Minister Mario Draghi criticised on Monday one of his government's first moves - a decision to unexpectedly extend a shutdown of Italy's ski resorts just hours before the slopes had been due to re-open.After a months-long closure due to the coronavirus pandemic, Italian ski operators were poised to re-start their ski lifts on Monday, only to see their hopes dashed on Sunday evening when the health ministry said it would maintain the lockdown.Health experts said the decision was necessary because of the growing spread of the more contagious British variant of the virus. Tour operators and some of the biggest parties in Draghi's new unity government complained that the announcement had come far too late."We need to communicate in a timely fashion...Let's change tack," said Matteo Salvini, whose rightist League party has quit opposition ranks to join Draghi's administration, which was only sworn into office on Saturday.The centre-left Democratic Party (PD) was also unhappy."We are not questioning the ongoing health emergency, but they can't just shut things down hours before their reopening," PD Senate leader Andrea Marcucci said in a statement.Almost all ministers from the previous government have been replaced, but Health Minister Roberto Speranza has remained in place. He informed Draghi before announcing the ski decision, a political source said.Ski operators were stunned to hear the ban on recreational skiing had been pushed back until March 5 - close to the end of the traditional season."The timing of this move is completely absurd. We worked for two weeks, day and night, to guarantee a safe re-opening in line with the regulations," Michele Bertolini, head of the Ponte di Legno Alpine ski resort, told Reuters TV.Most ski slopes are located in the northern regions, the worst affected by the Covid-19 pandemic. Tour operators say they risk losing billions of euros as a result of the shutdown."We had bookings, staff, everything ready to restart. Guests who were already here," said Alessandro Guerini, head of the local hoteliers' association in Ponte di Legno.Although the number of daily Covid-19 cases in Italy has fallen from a high of some 40,000 in mid-November to under 15,000 now, the infection rate is edging higher and several hundred people continue to die each day.Italy's official death toll stands at 93,577 - the second highest in Europe after Britain and seventh highest worldwide.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/lastminute-extension-of-italian-ski-ban-dismays-mario-draghi-s-new-allies-101613405892913.html
15-02-2021||World||Anthony Fauci wins $1 million Israeli prize for 'defending science'||Dr. Anthony Fauci has won the $1 million Dan David Prize for “defending science” and advocating for vaccines now being administered worldwide to fight the coronavirus pandemic.The Israel-based Dan David Foundation on Monday named President Joe Biden's chief medical adviser as the winner of one of three prizes. It said he had earned the recognition over a lifetime of leadership on HIV research and AIDS relief, as well as his advocacy for the vaccines against COVID-19.In its statement, the private foundation did not mention former President Donald Trump, who undermined Fauci's follow-the-science approach to the pandemic. But it credited Fauci with "courageously defending science in the face of uninformed opposition during the challenging COVID crisis.”Fauci, 80, has served seven presidents and has been the director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases since 1984.In recent interviews, Fauci has acknowledged that it was difficult at times to work for Trump, who repeatedly played down the severity of the pandemic, dismissed the need for mask-wearing and often touted unproven scientific remedies, including injecting disinfectant.Trump resented Fauci's flattering press coverage and reveled in calls to “Fire Fauci!” at some of his rallies. But Fauci outlasted Trump, who lost the November election.“It was very clear that there were things that were said, be it regarding things like hydroxychloroquine and other things, that really was uncomfortable because they were not based in scientific fact,” Fauci said at a recent White House briefing. He added that he took “no pleasure” in having to contradict the president.Biden's election, Fauci said, was “liberating.”The Dan David Prize, established in 2000, gives $1 million awards in three categories each year for contributions addressing the past, present and future.Fauci won the prize for achievement in the “present,” in the field of public health, the foundation said.Professors Alison Bashford, Katharine Park and Keith Wailoo, working in the field of history and health medicine, won the “Past" category. The pioneers of an anti-cancer immunotherapy, professor Zelig Eshhar, Dr. Carl June and Dr. Steven Rosenberg won the “Future" category.Foundation Director Ariel David, son of the prize founder, said this year’s laureates “have probed how humanity has dealt with sickness and pandemics throughout history; they have provided relief, guidance and leadership in dealing with current outbreaks ... and they are at the forefront of discovering new treatments that give us hope for the future in the ongoing battle against cancer and other diseases.”Previous recipients of the Dan David Prize include former U.S. Vice President Al Gore, former British Prime Minister Tony Blair, cellist Yo-Yo Ma, novelist Margaret Atwood, Wikipedia co-founder Jimmy Wales and filmmakers Joel and Ethan Coen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/anthony-fauci-wins-1-million-israeli-prize-for-defending-science-101613405164996.html
15-02-2021||World||Tougher travel rules to contain spread of Covid-19 come into force in UK||The UK's tougher new travel rules to contain the spread of COVID-19 variants came into effect from Monday, involving compulsory hotel quarantines for anyone returning to England from one of the 33 high-risk "red list" countries, which excludes India.Those arriving will have to pre-book and pay 1,750 pounds to spend 10 days quarantining in government-sanctioned hotels, covering the cost of the hotel, transport and two separate tests post-arrival. Extremely serious breaches of the new norms could result in a 10-year jail term and fines of up to 10,000 pounds.India is not among the 33 high-risk "red list" countries.However, those arriving in the UK from countries such as India, not having visited a "red list" country, must still quarantine for 10 days at home and complete two mandatory COVID-19 tests on the second and eighth day after arriving.“With the emergence of new variants, we must go further. The rules coming into force today will bolster the quarantine system and provide another layer of security against new variants at the border,” said UK Health Secretary Matt Hancock.“These new measures are important to protect our vaccination programme, which has now seen 15 million people vaccinated, we all work towards restoring normal life,” he said.Starting Monday, any UK or Irish resident who has been in a high-risk destination on the UK’s red list – comprising 33 hotspots with COVID-19 variants in circulation – will have to enter England through a designated port and have pre-booked a quarantine package to stay at one of the government’s “Managed Quarantine Facilities”.Non-residents are currently not part of the essential-only travel rules of the coronavirus lockdown.The government said it has tough measures already in place requiring all travellers into the UK, from any location, to provide proof of a negative COVID-19 test taken no more than three days before departure and non-UK residents from the 33 red list countries are already banned from entering Britain.New regulations equipping the Border Force and police staff with the powers needed to ensure people arriving in England conform to the new rules have also been put in place.The Border Force have the power to issue fixed penalty notices to individuals suspected of lying on their Passenger Locator Form and where necessary detain them for up to three hours.As part of the regulations, a requirement for quarantining individuals to self-isolate in their room is set out in law. There will also be a visible security presence at the Managed Quarantine Facilities to ensure that people are obeying these rules.The government has struck deals with 16 hotels so far, providing 4,963 rooms for the new quarantine system, with a further 58,000 rooms currently on standby.Passengers can book their rooms through an online portal in advance of arrival in England. Those who fail to quarantine in such hotels face fines of 5,000 to 10,000 pounds, while anyone who lies on their passenger locator form about having been in a country on the red list faces a prison sentence of up to 10 years.All hotel staff will be fully trained in COVID-secure practices, and all contractors have been instructed to ensure their facilities and services are provided in a COVID-secure way. This includes plastic shields and PPE where necessary.Heathrow Airport is one of five in England where people requiring hotel quarantine can enter the UK and is expected to receive the largest number of passengers. The other four are Gatwick, London City, Birmingham and Farnborough.The devolved regions are also following similar strict rules for arrivals from red list countries, which include countries which have shown a high occurrence of new variants of coronavirus such as South Africa.Non-essential travel remains banned under the UK’s strict lockdown to contain the very high coronavirus infection rate as the vaccination programme is accelerated. There are reports that anyone leaving the UK will soon after be questioned about their reason for travel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/tougher-travel-rules-to-contain-spread-of-covid-19-come-into-force-in-uk-101613404503421.html
15-02-2021||World||Biden faces pressure as US sets new course on immigration||After a weeklong bus ride from Honduras, Isabel Osorio Medina arrived in northern Mexico with the hope President Joe Biden would make it easier for people like him to get into the United States.“It seems the new president wants to help migrants,” Osorio said as he got ready to check in to a cheap hotel in downtown Tijuana before heading to the US. “They’re saying he is going to help, but I don’t know for sure how much is true or not.”The 63-year-old is among thousands of people who have come to the US-Mexico border with the hope they will be able to ask for asylum and make their way into the US now that former President Donald Trump is no longer in office.While Biden has taken some major steps in his first weeks in office to reverse Trump's hardline immigration policies, his administration hasn't lifted some of the most significant barriers to asylum-seekers.In fact, it's discouraging people from coming to the country, hoping to avoid what happened under both Trump and former President Barack Obama — border agents getting overwhelmed by migrants, including many Central Americans with children.“Now is not the time to come,” White House press secretary Jen Psaki said at a recent briefing, “and the vast majority of people will be turned away.”Secretary of State Antony Blinken struck a similar tone on Feb. 6 as he announced official steps to end Trump-era agreements with Honduras, El Salvador and Guatemala that required many asylum-seekers to seek refuge in one of those countries instead of the US.“To be clear, these actions do not mean that the US border is open,” Blinken said. “While we are committed to expanding legal pathways for protection and opportunity here and in the region, the United States is a country with borders and laws that must be enforced.”That message hasn't reached everyone.More people have been arriving at an encampment in Matamoros, Mexico, a dangerous city just south of the Texas border where hundreds of asylum-seekers have been waiting under Trump's “Remain in Mexico” program.It's possible even more may come after the Biden administration announced Friday that it would slowly allow an estimated 25,000 people to enter the US as their cases are reviewed. The first wave is expected Feb. 19.Walter Valenzuela, a 37-year-old Honduran, said he had been waiting in Tijuana, across the border from San Diego, for months for a chance to either seek asylum or risk an illegal crossing.For years, asylum-seekers who met the initial threshold of demonstrating a “credible fear” of persecution in their homeland could generally stay in the US until an immigration judge decided whether they qualified for permanent residency, which can take years.Trump administration officials believed many asylum claims were fraudulent or lacked merit, submitted by people simply looking to remain in the U.S. But the issue is murky as tens of thousands flee violent gangs, natural disasters and political upheaval.The Biden administration has signed several executive orders on immigration, including allowing in more refugees and establishing a task force to find the parents of about 600 children who were separated under Trump and still haven't been reunited.But it hasn't ended a public health order Trump issued at the start of the coronavirus pandemic that allows US Customs and Border Protection to immediately expel nearly everyone, including asylum-seekers.Psaki said the government is still working to develop a “humane, comprehensive process" to evaluate people coming to the US.“Asylum processes at the border will not occur immediately,” she said. “It will take time to implement.”Alan Bersin, who held top positions dealing with border security during the Clinton and Obama administrations, warned that Biden is headed for a crisis if he releases all asylum-seekers into the United States. That would invite fraud and abuse, he said.“There’s such a pressing sense in the advocate community that is controlling the Biden immigration agenda — they want to reverse all Trump actions,” he said.Meanwhile, pressure is mounting.The number of people apprehended at the border has increased since January, though it's below some previous periods. Authorities say many are getting caught and returned multiple times.Complicating matters, a law has taken effect in Mexico that prohibits holding children in migrant detention centers, and the US has stopped sending back some families along parts of the border. CBP, which doesn't have capacity to hold families because of Covid-19, in recent weeks has released dozens of people into the US with instructions to appear in court later.Authorities fear that as word spreads of those releases, more people will come. And asylum is not the only immigration issue creating headwinds for Biden's administration.Texas and Arizona have both sued to stop Biden's 100-day deportation moratorium, which a judge temporarily put on hold. Immigration and Customs and Enforcement officers are complaining about proposed rules to focus on detaining and removing people in the country illegally who pose national security threats or have been convicted of more serious crimes.Jon Feere, a senior adviser to ICE under Trump, said such moves are part of a larger pattern that the Biden administration will come to regret.“When you send the message that you are not serious about immigration enforcement, you can’t act surprised when you see a massive influx of people that you have to manage,” he said.Raul Ortiz, deputy chief of the Border Patrol, said last week that as a liaison to the Biden transition team, he found the staff to be “very attentive” to the issues. Some had experience with surges of asylum-seekers under Obama.“This wasn’t uncharted waters," Ortiz said in an interview produced by the Border Patrol. "It wasn’t like we were starting from scratch.”The larger debate is lost on Osorio, who came to Tijuana because he heard Biden wants to help people like him. He says he intended to seek asylum based on the dangers he faced as an environmental activist protesting illegal logging in Honduras.But because he can't seek asylum at the official border crossing in San Diego, other migrants told him about a place he could try to cross illegally. He said if he encountered the Border Patrol, he would ask for asylum and see what happens.“They already told us more or less how to do it,” Osorio said. “We're going to take a look.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-faces-pressure-as-us-sets-new-course-on-immigration-101613403783193.html
15-02-2021||World||'Won't leave before time is right': NATO chief on withdrawal from Afghanistan||Taliban militants in Afghanistan must do more to meet the terms of a 2020 peace agreement with the United States to allow for any possible foreign troop withdrawal by a May deadline, NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg said on Monday.Allied defence ministers will discuss later this week whether the Taliban is making good on the peace deal, which called for militants to curb attacks and foreign troops to withdraw by May 1."We see that there is still a need for the Taliban to do more when it comes to delivering on their commitments ... to make sure that they break all ties with international terrorists," Stoltenberg said.Attacks in Afghanistan, including a bomb that killed the deputy governor of the capital Kabul in December, have prompted members of the U.S. Congress and international rights groups to call for a delay to the pullout agreed under former President Donald Trump.NATO has 9,600 troops in Afghanistan, including 2,500 Americans, training and assisting Afghan forces.Many fear that progress during two decades of foreign intervention in Afghanistan would quickly unravel, threatening gains in areas from women's rights to democracy. US lawmakers have warned that withdrawing all troops could lead to civil war.This week's defence ministers' meeting, which will take place by video conference on Wednesday and Thursday, was initially set decide on whether to go ahead with a troop pullout. The administration of new US President Joe Biden faces calls to seek a six-month delay.Four senior NATO officials told Reuters on Jan. 31 international troops would stay beyond the May deadline, despite Taliban calls for a full withdrawal."Our common goal is clear: Afghanistan should never again serve as a haven for terrorists to attack our homelands," Stoltenberg said. "While no ally wants to stay in Afghanistan longer than necessary. We will not leave before the time is right.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/wont-leave-before-time-is-right-nato-chief-on-withdrawal-from-afghanistan-101613402954451.html
15-02-2021||World||Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, new WTO head 'loved' despite mixed record||Twice Nigeria's finance minister and its first woman foreign minister, Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala has been described as a trailblazer.The 66-year-old made more history on Monday when she was appointed as the first African and woman to head the World Trade Organization (WTO).Aside from her time in public office, the development economist also spent a quarter-century at the World Bank -- rising to be managing director and running for the top role in 2012."I think she has delivered, whether in Nigeria or in other countries where she worked," Idayat Hassan of the Centre for Democracy and Development research and advocacy group told AFP.Born in 1954 in Ogwashi Ukwu, in Delta State, western Nigeria, her father is a traditional ruler. She spent much of her life in the United States, graduating from Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) and Harvard, where she sent her four children."She is not just liked in Nigeria, she is loved, because she is a symbol, and people are gunning for her because of what she represents for womanhood," said Hassan.'She kept quiet'Not everyone agrees her track record is impeccable."Okonjo-Iweala may have done some box-checking technocratic transparency reforms in her ministry but the fact is, nearly a billion dollars a month were going missing from oil revenues when she was finance minister," said Sarah Chayes, author of "Thieves of State", a book about corruption."I think it's a shame she is even being considered for the role," Chayes said in an interview last year."There is an appetite for this kind of good news story at a time when diversity issues are paramount, being female and black doesn't hurt."The former minister has portrayed herself as a champion against Nigeria's rampant corruption -- and says her own mother was even kidnapped over her attempts to tackle the scourge.But critics insist she should have done more to stop it while in power."At the very least, she had the opportunity to resign from office and expose the corruption," said Olanrewaju Suraju, from the Human and Environmental Development Agenda campaign group."Rather, she kept quiet and allowed high level corruption to fester under the regime, only to complain after leaving office."'Boldness, courage'Okonjo-Iweala has also brushed off claims she lacks experience as a trade minister or negotiator."I've been doing that all my life, working on trade policy issues," she said during a webinar organised by Chatham House in July."Most of all," she said, the choice for director general should go beyond technical skills, "you need boldness, courage".She was recently named the African Union's special envoy to mobilise international support for the continent's efforts to address the economic fallout of the coronavirus pandemic.Okonjo-Iweala has warned that growing protectionism and nationalism have been spurred on by the crisis and insists barriers need to be lowered to help the world recover."One way to ensure the adequate supply and equitable distribution of vaccines is to remove some of the barriers created by intellectual property and technology transfer laws," she wrote in April in Foreign Affairs magazine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/ngozi-okonjo-iweala-new-wto-head-loved-despite-mixed-record-101613402137006.html
15-02-2021||World||Nigeria's Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala makes history as head of WTO||Three months after the Trump administration rejected her, former Nigerian finance minister Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala received unanimous backing on Monday to become the first woman and first African director-general of the World Trade Organization.A self-declared "doer" with a track record of taking on seemingly intractable problems, Okonjo-Iweala will have her work cut out for her at the trade body, even with Donald Trump, who had threatened to pull the United States out of the organisation, no longer in the White House.As director-general, a position that wields limited formal power, Okonjo-Iweala, 66, will need to broker international trade talks in the face of persistent US-China conflict; respond to pressure to reform trade rules; and counter protectionism heightened by the Covid-19 pandemic.In her acceptance speech at the WTO, she said that getting a trade deal at the next major ministerial meeting would be a "top priority" and also urged members to reject vaccine nationalism, according to a delegate attending the closed-door meeting.In the same speech, she described the challenges facing the body as "numerous and tricky but not insurmountable".A 25-year veteran of the World Bank, where she oversaw an $81 billion portfolio, Okonjo-Iweala ran against seven other candidates by espousing a belief in trade's ability to lift people out of poverty.She studied development economics at Harvard after experiencing civil war in Nigeria as a teenager. She returned to the country in 2003 to serve as finance minister and backers point to her hard-nose negotiating skills that helped seal a deal to cancel billions of dollars of Nigerian debt with the Paris Club of creditor nations in 2005."She brings stature, she brings experience, a network and a temperament of trying to get things done, which is quite a welcome lot in my view," former WTO chief Pascal Lamy told Reuters. "I think she's a good choice." Key to her success will be her ability to operate in the centre of a "US-EU-China triangle", he said.The endorsement of the Biden administration cleared the last obstacle to her appointment.Sweet but strongOkonjo-Iweala becomes one of the few female heads of a major multilateral body. She is expected to join the WTO's Geneva lakeside headquarters within weeks where her portrait is set to be hung beside others of men, mostly white and from rich countries.Her bright Nigerian prints are sure to stand out among the suits there where the majority of top staff are also men, like most of the delegates and ministers that walk its corridors.The Trump administration's main criticism of her was that she lacked direct trade experience compared to her main South Korean rival and even supporters say she will have to quickly get up to speed on the technicalities of trade negotiations.She has rejected this, saying that she has plenty of experience of trade plus other expertise."The qualities I have are even better," she said.Raised by academics, the mother-of-four earned a reputation for hard work and modesty amid the pomp of Nigeria's governing class, acquaintances say."She is persistent and stubborn," said Kingsley Moghalu, former deputy governor of Nigeria's central bank who worked with her when she was the country's first female finance minister.Even when her elderly mother was kidnapped in the Niger Delta, she refused to back down on a series of oil reforms, one of several incidents that earned her the nickname 'Okonjo-Wahala', Wahala meaning "trouble" in Nigerian Pidgin."People recognise that this is not someone who is going to tolerate nonsense," her son Uzodinma Iweala, a writer, told Reuters."She's a very strong woman like many African woman. There's that song 'Sweet Mother' and that's true for her but you also know that you don't cross a Sweet Mother."Reforming the unreformableThe 26-year-old WTO that Okonjo-Iweala inherits after a six-month leadership gap is partially paralysed, thanks to the Trump administration which blocked appointments to its top appeals body that acts as the global arbiter of trade disputes.But even before Trump, negotiators had struggled to clinch deals that must be agreed by consensus, with the United States and other developed WTO members arguing that developing counties, notably China, cannot cling on to exceptions and that rules need to change to reflect China's economic growth.Okonjo-Iweala who is a special envoy for the World Health Organization on Covid-19 and, until recently chair of the board of global vaccine alliance Gavi, told Reuters that trade's contribution to public health would be a priority.The WTO currently faces deadlock over an issue of waiving intellectual property rights for Covid-19 drugs, with many wealthy countries opposed.High on the to-do list will also be fisheries subsidies, the subject of the WTO's main multilateral talks that missed a deadline to conclude by end-2020.Asked about the challenges ahead, she joked that a book she wrote about fixing Nigeria's broken institutions could well apply to today's WTO: 'Reforming the Unreformable'."I feel I can solve the problems. I'm a known reformer, not someone who talks about it," she said. "I've actually done it".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nigerias-ngozi-okonjo-iweala-makes-history-as-head-of-wto-101613401560528.html
15-02-2021||World||WTO formally appoints Nigeria's Okonjo-Iweala as its first female leader||The World Trade Organization selected Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala to be the first woman and first African as its leader, tasking the former Nigerian finance minister with restoring trust in a rules-based global trading system roiled by protectionism and the pandemic.During a virtual meeting on Monday, the WTO’s 164 members unanimously selected the 66-year-old development economist to serve a four-year term as director-general.After withstanding a veto of her candidacy by the now-departed Trump administration, Okonjo-Iweala takes the helm of the Geneva-based WTO at a precarious time for the world economy and just as the organization itself is mired in a state of dysfunction.She held a previous role as chair of the Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunization after a public sector career in international finance, including two terms as Nigeria’s finance minister and some 25 years at the World Bank. Her dual U.S. citizenship means she’s also the first American to hold the organization’s top job.Navigating the growing chasm between China and western nations -- who argue that China’s entry into the organization in 2001 failed to transform it into a market economy -- will be a key challenge.‘Deliver Soon’China’s delegation to the WTO, in a statement, said “the WTO is at its critical moment and must be able to deliver soon. The collective decision made by the entire membership demonstrates a vote of trust not only in Dr. Ngozi herself, but also in our vision, our expectation and the multilateral trading system that we all believe and preserve.”Washington and Brussels have railed against China’s massive subsidy programs, forced technology transfers and the state’s expansive influence over the Chinese economy -- policies that they say have collectively resulted in trade distortions that negatively affect the global economy.During her campaign, Okonjo-Iweala acknowledged the necessity of rebuilding trust between the US and China while trying to find areas of common interest. As a candidate, she endorsed an ongoing initiative among the US, EU and Japan aimed at developing new disciplines for industrial subsidies, state-owned enterprises and forced technology transfers.In the near term, Okonjo-Iweala may look for some early wins on issues including:This week the European Union is expected to call upon US President Joe Biden to consider a set of principals as a basis for negotiating and clarifying the WTO’s dispute settlement rules.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/wto-formally-appoints-nigeria-s-okonjo-iweala-as-its-first-female-leader-101613400431632.html
15-02-2021||World||Taliban must do more to meet its peace deal commitments, says NATO||Taliban militants in Afghanistan must do more to meet the terms of a 2020 peace agreement and allow for any possible foreign troop withdrawal by May, NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg said on Monday."We see that there is still a need for the Taliban to do more when it comes to delivering on their commitments ... to make sure that they break old ties with international terrorists," Stoltenberg told a news conference.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/taliban-must-do-more-to-meet-its-peace-deal-commitments-says-nato-101613400147798.html
15-02-2021||World||Reports suggest Pfizer's Covid-19 vaccine sharply reduces symptomatic cases||Pfizer-BioNTech's Covid-19 vaccine appears to reduce symptomatic coronavirus infections by more than 90 per cent in the real world, according to Israeli researchers.According to CNN, the preliminary findings published on Monday suggest that the vaccine remains remarkably effective in a mass vaccination campaign -- outside the carefully controlled conditions of a clinical trial.The Clalit Research Institute analysed data on 1.2 million people, about half of whom had received the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine. Researchers compared patients who received the vaccine with similar individuals who hadn't.The rate of symptomatic Covid-19 -- meaning people who were infected with the coronavirus and felt sick -- decreased by 94 per cent among people who received two doses of the vaccine, according to a press release from Clalit. The rate of serious illness decreased by 92 per cent.CNN further reported that while full details of the study weren't immediately available, and the research hasn't yet been peer-reviewed. Still, the findings are consistent with data from Pfizer's own vaccine trial, which found that the vaccine conferred 95 per cent protection against symptomatic Covid-19.Researchers in the Pfizer trial randomly assigned patients to receive either the vaccine or a placebo. Then they looked to see how many people got sick in each group and found that the vaccine sharply reduced illness.The company's study was a randomised controlled trial. The Israeli study, on the other hand, was observational, meaning researchers didn't randomly pick who got the vaccine and who didn't."That can pose problems; people who choose to get vaccinated, for example, may also be more likely to take other steps to protect themselves. Researchers said they tried to account for those types of effects, however. And observational studies are important because they can offer certain insight into how well vaccines protect people under real-world conditions," CNN reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pfizers-covid-19-vaccine-sharply-reduces-symptomatic-cases-says-report-101613399427801.html
15-02-2021||World||In a rare verdict, Saudi woman sentenced to death for murdering Bangladeshi maid||A Saudi woman has been convicted of murdering her Bangladeshi maid by a criminal court in Saudi Arabia, in a ruling rights groups in the South Asian nation said was a rare example of an employer being found guilty of abusing a migrant worker.Ayesha Al Jizani was sentenced on Sunday to death by the court for killing Abiron Begum in March 2019, some two years after Begum went to the Gulf state in search of better paid work, a Bangladeshi government official said.Begum's relatives urged the Bangladeshi government to take action against the brokers who "tricked" Begum, 40, into taking the job in Saudi Arabia four years ago."(She) wanted to go abroad to earn more money so that she could pay for her aged parents," Ayub Ali, Begum's brother-in-law, told the Thomson Reuters Foundation."They started torturing her two weeks after she left. She would call us and cry ... we begged the brokers here to bring her back, but no one listened to us."Jizani's husband was jailed for three years for failing to help Begum access medical treatment and making her work outside the family home illegally, confirmed Ahmed Munirus Saleheen, a senior official at Bangladesh's expatriate ministry.Jizani's son was sent to a juvenile facility for seven months, Saleheen added.Bangladesh is one of the world's top exporters of labour and depends heavily on the remittances they send home to relatives.Prior to the pandemic, about 700,000 Bangladeshis used to travel abroad for jobs annually, with Saudi Arabia being the top destination despite having one of the highest recruitment fees for migrant jobseekers from the South Asian nation.Labour rights activists say the fee, which is often paid through a network of unofficial brokers, opens the door to exploitation and trafficking.Campaigners said the Saudi court's verdict against an employer was unusual."I have been working in the migration field for several years and I have never heard of such a verdict," said Shakirul Islam, head of the Ovibashi Karmi Unnayan Program, which deals with migrant rights in Bangladesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/in-a-rare-verdict-saudi-woman-sentenced-to-death-for-murdering-bangladeshi-maid-101613399064094.html
15-02-2021||World||Rain triggers landslide in Indonesia; 10 dead, 9 missing||Torrential rains triggered a landslide on Indonesia's main island of Java that killed at least 10 people, with rescuers digging desperately with their bare hands and farm tools on Monday to locate nine missing people, including four children, officials said.Dozens of soldiers, police and volunteers took part in the search in the village of Selopuro in East Java's Nganjuk district, National Disaster Mitigation Agency spokesperson Raditya Jati said.The mud that rolled down from surrounding hills late Sunday struck at least eight houses, injuring 14 people and leaving 21 people buried under tons of mud. Two were rescued on Sunday.Rescuers on Monday found bodies buried under as much as 6 meters (10 feet) of mud and were searching for the nine people still missing, Nganjuk district chief Novi Rahman Hidayat said. Heavy equipment arrived later to help in the search.Overnight rains caused rivers to burst their banks in other districts of the province on Monday, sending nearly 1 meter (about 3 feet) of muddy water into some residential areas and forcing hundreds of people to flee from their submerged homes, Jati said.Severe flooding has been reported in many provinces in the vast archipelago nation over the past few days.Two landslides hit a village in Indonesia's West Java province last month, killing 40 people.Seasonal downpours cause frequent landslides and floods each year in Indonesia, a chain of 17,000 islands where millions of people live in mountainous areas or near fertile flood plains.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/rain-triggers-landslide-in-indonesia-10-dead-9-missing-101613399161495.html
15-02-2021||World||Google fined $1 million for misleading French hotel rankings||Google has agreed to pay a fine of 1.1 million euros ($1.3 million) after French authorities concluded the search engine displayed “misleading” rankings for French hotels.Previously, Google used the official source Atout France as well as input from other hotel-industry websites in its algorithm to rank hotels from one to five stars.After receiving complaints from hoteliers about Google's rankings, the French government's fraud and competition agency launched an investigation in 2019 and 2020. It said it was to monitor “the nature and fairness of the information provided by the platform” across 7,500 establishments.Google said that it has now made the “necessary changes to only reflect the official French star rating for hotels on Google Maps and Search."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/google-fined-1-million-for-misleading-french-hotel-rankings-101613396267879.html
15-02-2021||World||Presidents' Day 2021: Here’s all you need to know about US federal holiday||The United States is on Monday celebrating Presidents’ Day, a federal holiday to honour all US presidents, past and present. The holiday is observed on the third Monday of February and is one of the holidays whose date changes in accordance with the Uniform Monday Holiday Act. On this day, the US postal services, stock market and most of the banks remain closed.The holiday was originally established to celebrate the birthday of George Washington, the first president of the United States, who was born on February 22, 1732. It was later moved to the third Monday of February under the Uniform Monday Holiday Act of 1971 in an attempt to create more three-day weekends for workers.Washington’s birthday remained an unofficial observance for most of the 19th century until a US senator from the state of Arkansas proposed a federal holiday to celebrate the occasion. In 1879, President Rutherford B Hayes signed the proposal into law to observe the holiday in the District of Columbia which was later expanded to the rest of the country.It was the first federal holiday to celebrate the life of an individual American because, at that time, the other nationally recognised federal holidays were Christmas, New Year, the Fourth of July and Thanksgiving.Read | San Francisco to strip George Washington, Abraham Lincoln from school namesWhile the holiday is now viewed as a day to celebrate all American presidents, interestingly, Presidents’ Day never falls on the actual birthday of any president. George Washington, William Henry Harrison, Abraham Lincoln and Ronald Reagan, the four former commanders-in-chief, were born in February but their birthdays are either too early or too late to coincide with the third Monday of the month.On the occasion of President's Day, a list of more than 200 members of Indian diaspora holding highest positions worldwide will be unveiled by Indiaspora, a US-based organisation representing the community globally. The list will include top leaders in governments around the world, showcasing the achievements of the community leaders across different sectors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/presidents-day-2021-here-s-all-you-need-to-know-about-us-federal-holiday-101613395648970.html
15-02-2021||World||Covid-19: South Africa reopens its land borders as virus cases decline||South Africa has reopened its major land borders with neighboring countries after closing them last month to prevent the spread of the Covid-19 virus.At least 20 border posts reopened Monday, with officials saying steps will be taken to avoid tightly-packed crowds of travelers gathering at the immigration posts which would spread the virus.Home affairs minister Aaron Motsoaledi, who is to inspect the reopening of the Lebombo border post with Mozambique on Monday, said South Africa is working with neighboring countries to ensure simpler movements of people.Other border posts to be reopened include the Beitbridge border post with Zimbabwe and crossing points with Lesotho, Botswana, Namibia and Eswatini (formerly known as Swaziland).Before the borders were closed in January, there were reports of problems at the immigration offices, including travelers using fake Covid-19 tests.“We appeal to travelers to ensure that they have all the requisite travel documents, including valid Covid-19 tests, when they present themselves to officials at our borders," said Motsoaledi.Anyone caught at a border post with a fake Covid-19 certificate will be barred from visiting South Africa for a period of at least five years, Motsoaledi said.South Africa has seen a decline in new Covid-19 infections, leading the country to lift some of its stricter lockdown regulations like the closure of land borders.The emergence of the new 501Y.V2 variant has damaged the country's tourism with some countries and airlines restricting flights from South Africa.South Africa, with a cumulative total of nearly 1.5 million cases, including 47,000 deaths, accounts for 41% of all the confirmed cases in Africa's 54 countries, representing 1.3 billion people. After a dramatic resurgence of cases, hospitalizations and deaths in January, South Africa's Covid-19 numbers are declining, with 1,744 new infections and 78 deaths reported in the last 24 hours.The country is set to start vaccinating its front-line health workers with Johnson & Johnson vaccines later this week. South Africa scrapped its plans to start its inoculation drive with the AstraZeneca vaccine after a small study found it to be minimally effective in preventing mild-to-moderate cases against the dominant variant in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-south-africa-reopens-its-land-borders-as-virus-cases-decline-101613394414058.html
15-02-2021||World||Japan quake knocks out 20% of country's refining capacity||Japanese refiners led by the biggest, Eneos Corp, shut down a fifth of the country's crude oil refining capacity after a powerful earthquake struck northeastern Japan knocking out power, bullet train lines and injuring more than 150 people.They refinery shutdowns in the world's fourth-biggest oil importer are another potential hit after the pandemic led to the evaporation of crude demand over the last year.As much as 743,000 barrels per day (bpd) of oil-processing capacity has been idled, nearly 22% of Japan's roughly 3.4 million bpd capacity.The refineries in locations from Yokohama to Sendai near the epicentre of the 7.3-magnitude earthquake, which struck a little before midnight on Saturday, either automatically shut down or were idled immediately for checks.Eneos said on Monday it shut down its 145,000 barrel-per-day (bpd) Sendai refinery after it was hit by a large earthquake on Saturday. The company is still making checks on the refinery and does not have a restart date, the spokesman said.Eneos later said the company's 270,000 bpd Negishi refinery, had also closed and it had no date for the resumption of operations.The earthquake struck off the coast of northeastern Japan, injuring scores of people, triggering widespread power outages and causing damage across parts of northern Japan, including in Fukushima which is still recovering a decade after a bigger quake in the same area.Fuji Oil Co Ltd shut the 143,000 barrel-per-day crude distillation unit (CDU) at its Sodegaura oil refinery in Chiba, east of Tokyo, after it was hit by an earthquake on Saturday, a company spokesman said on Monday.Fuji Oil's only refinery was shut down automatically after the quake and the company plans to restart the CDU on Tuesday as no damage was found, the spokesman said.Idemitsu Kosan did not immediately respond to a request to comment on media reports it had shut down its 190,000 bpd Chiba refinery, also because of the quake.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/japan-quake-knocks-out-20-of-country-s-refining-capacity-101613392792254.html
15-02-2021||World||Power cut across Texas as snow, ice blanket southern Plains||A winter storm dropping snow and ice also sent temperatures plunging across the southern Plains, prompting a power emergency in Texas a day after conditions canceled flights and impacted traffic across large swaths of the U.S.Rotating power outages were initiated by the Electric Reliability Council of Texas, or ERCOT, early Monday morning, meaning thousands went without electricity for short periods as temperatures fell into the teens near Dallas and 20s (about minus 5 degrees Celsius) around Houston.“We urge Texans to put safety first,” the council tweeted as it urged residents to reduce electricity use. ERCOT manages the flow of electric power in the state.“Traffic lights and other infrastructure may be temporarily without power,” ERCOT said.The council described the rotating outages as a “last resort to preserve the reliability of the electric system as a whole,” adding that utility transmission companies are tasked with determining how to reduce demand on the system.“Every grid operator and every electric company is fighting to restore power right now,” ERCOT President and CEO Bill Magness said in a statement.The rotating outages were expected to last throughout Monday morning.More than 1.6 million customers were in the dark as of 5 a.m. local time, according to poweroutage.us, a utility tracking site.Around 5,000 Oklahoma Gas & Electric customers were without power overnight, and Entergy Arkansas logged about 3,000 outages. Both states have much smaller populations compared to Texas.Officials in Houston had warned people to prepare for outages and hazardous roads — conditions similar to what residents might see in the wake of a Category 5 hurricane.“There (have) been numerous reports of accidents from icing recently,” National Weather Service lead forecaster Bob Oravec said Monday. “I think there's going to be a big threat today as the system pushes northeastward.”Accumulating ice between a tenth and a quarter of an inch (0.25 and 0.6 centimeters) was possible across eastern Louisiana, Mississippi, central Tennessee, Kentucky and over into the West Virginia and Ohio border region, Oravec said.Up to 12 inches (30 centimeters) of snow was expected across parts of the southern Plains into Monday, said Marc Chenard, a meteorologist with the National Weather Service's Weather Prediction Center.The region had been gearing up for the winter weather for the better part of the weekend. Texas Gov. Greg Abbott issued a disaster declaration for all of the state’s 254 counties. Abbott, Oklahoma Gov. Kevin Stitt and Arkansas Gov. Asa Hutchinson each activated National Guard units to assist state agencies with tasks including rescuing stranded drivers.President Joe Biden also declared an emergency in Texas in a statement Sunday night. The declaration is intended to add federal aid to state and local response efforts.More than 760 flights were canceled at Dallas-Fort Worth International Airport, and at Dallas Love Field most of the nearly 200 flights for Southwest Airlines, the airport’s main carrier, were canceled on Sunday.American Airlines said about 345 of their flights were canceled at DFW Airport, its hub, by early Sunday afternoon. The airline said the storm was also affecting their flights across the region, with operations reduced and canceled at airports across Texas, Oklahoma and Arkansas.The National Weather Service said Sunday that the forecast through early Tuesday calls for 8 to 12 inches (20 to 30 centimeters) of snow in central Oklahoma, and 4 to 8 inches (10 to 20 centimeters) in an area extending from eastern Texas to the Ohio Valley in the Northeast.In Memphis, Tennessee, snow started falling Sunday afternoon, and while main roads were still passable, lines formed during the day at grocery stores as people rushed to stock up.In Mississippi, sleet in Jackson and other central parts of the state left roads and bridges slick. Bill Parker, a National Weather Service meteorologist in Jackson, said up to three-quarters of an inch (2 centimeters) of ice could accumulate in central Mississippi, bringing the possibility of power outages or falling tree limbs.Parts of Kentucky and West Virginia still recovering from an ice storm last week are expected to get up to a quarter-inch (0.6 centimeters) of ice or up to 8 inches (20 centimeters) of snow by Tuesday.Meanwhile, in the Pacific Northwest, tens of thousands of people were without power after a winter storm blanketed the region with ice and snow and made travel treacherous.Through the wintry conditions Sunday, florists stayed busy for Valentine's Day.In Fort Worth, Texas, Gordon Boswell Flowers’ general manager said delivery drivers worked to wrap up deliveries before the weather worsened.“It is icy and snowing and they’re calling for more snow,” Cheri Kirkman said.Despite the weather, she said they still had some people coming in to pick up gifts. “We’ve got plenty all made up, ready to go,” Kirkman said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/power-cut-across-texas-as-snow-ice-blanket-southern-plains-101613391481498.html
15-02-2021||World||Chinese couples rush to file for divorce as new stringent law kicks in||China’s new divorce law, which makes it harder for couples to split, has sent husbands and wives rushing to file applications to dissolve their marriages as they think that the new conditions complicate the process and compromise their freedom, a media report quoted lawyers as saying.Under the new law, which was implemented from last month after being passed by the National People’s Congress (NPC) last year despite criticism from the public, couples who mutually agree to dissolve their marriage must complete a month-long “cooling-off” period to reconsider their positions.After the 30 days have passed, couples can go to their local civil affairs bureau to apply a second time for their official divorce documents.Divorce lawyers have been inundated with requests from couples to file for divorce once their 30 days are over, Hong Kong-based South China Morning Post reported on Monday.In some cities such as Guangzhou, the demand for consultations with divorce lawyers is so high that scalpers are charging premium prices online to help couples secure appointments.Zhong Wen, a lawyer based in Sichuan province who specialises in divorce, says he has already received numerous phone calls from anxious clients concerned that the new law complicates their divorce and compromises their freedom to split.If one party withdraws from the agreement to divorce before the 30 days are up, the application is cancelled, leaving the other party to apply again and restart the 30-day clock, or to sue for a divorce – a costly and lengthy process.Zhong told the Post that one client was a rubber stamp away from having her divorce finalised when her husband changed his mind.He added that, even before the cooling-off period was introduced, it was easy for one party to a mutually agreed divorce to change their mind.“Now, with the (30-day) period, the divorce process is too unpredictable,” he said.Statistics show that the divorce rate in China has risen from 0.96 divorces per 1,000 people in 2000 to 3.36 in 2019, which is regarded high as compared to the countries in the Asia-Pacific region.Figures from China's Ministry of Civil Affairs show that in 2019, some 9.47 million couples got hitched, while 4.15 million couples parted ways. That's kind of a watershed as it was the first time the number of registered married couples dropped below 10 million, state-run CGTN reported.When the law was passed in May last year, Chinese citizens criticised the central government for interfering in private matters. More than 600 million comments were posted online using the hashtag “oppose divorce cooling-off period”.Officials believed the legislation would lower the divorce rate in China, which has risen rapidly and prevent “impulsive divorces” among young people.The law was passed by the National People’s Congress, China’s Parliament as part of the country's first Civil Code, which replaced several existing laws covering marriage, adoption, inheritance and property rights.Ran Keping, a law professor at Wuhan University who discussed the Civil Code with lawmakers before it was drafted, said that policymakers were unhappy with the country’s high divorce rates.“Even though the freedom to divorce is a basic right of individuals, from a societal point of view, a high divorce rate will affect (the country's) stability,” he said.The new law does not apply if a spouse files for divorce on the grounds that they are a victim of domestic violence. However, Zhong said the law would still disadvantage women, particularly those without an independent source of income.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinese-couples-rush-to-file-for-divorce-as-new-stringent-law-kicks-in-101613390892036.html
15-02-2021||World||Malaysia defends plan to deport Myanmar nationals||Malaysia on Monday defended a plan to deport 1,200 Myanmar nationals on navy ships sent from their homeland just weeks after a coup, following criticism from the United Nations.News emerged last week the migrants would be sent home, after the Myanmar military seized power and detained civilian leader Aung San Suu Kyi at the start of February.Malaysian immigration chief Khairul Dzaimee Daud said the detainees, who will be deported on February 23, are accused of offences including not having valid travel documents and overstaying their visas."It is part of our usual programme to deport illegal immigrants held at detention centres," he said in a statement, adding Malaysia sent home over 37,000 foreigners last year.He said no refugees registered with the UN or members of Myanmar's Rohingya Muslim minority are among those being deported.Rohingya, who are not recognised as citizens in Myanmar, have long suffered persecution in their mostly Buddhist homeland and hundreds of thousands fled a 2017 military crackdown to neighbouring Bangladesh.Malaysia is home to about 100,000 registered Rohingya refugees, as well as members of other communities such as the Chin and Kachin.The United Nations refugee agency said earlier they were seeking information from authorities about the deportations.But a spokeswoman added that since late 2019 they had been blocked them from accessing immigration detention centres, meaning they could not determine who should be accorded refugee status.Vulnerable people, including women and children, are among those held in the facilities, she said."If found to be in need of international protection, these individuals should not be deported to a situation where their lives or freedoms may be at risk," the spokeswoman said.Malaysian authorities were last year criticised for detaining undocumented migrants in a bid to prevent the spread of the coronavirus.Malaysia is home to millions of migrants from poorer parts of Asia who work in low-pay jobs such as construction. As well as Myanmar, they come from countries including Bangladesh and Indonesia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/malaysia-defends-plan-to-deport-myanmar-nationals-101613391039037.html
15-02-2021||World||Highest level of energy emergency declared in Texas to cope with deep freeze||The state of Texas continued to reel under a deep freeze, leaving utilities scrambling to meet record power demand and forcing the state's grid operator to enforce rotating blackouts early on Monday.Apart from Texas, much of the United States from the Pacific Northwest through the Great Plains and into the mid-Atlantic states has been in the grip of bone-chilling weather over the weekend, featuring snow, sleet and freezing rain.The Electric Reliability Council of Texas (ERCOT) has sought to cut power use in response to winter record of 69,150 MW on Sunday evening, more than 3,200 MW higher than the previous winter peak in January 2018.Reserves have dropped below 1,000 MW and transmission companies have been ordered to reduce demand on system, ERCOT said."Traffic lights and other infrastructure may be temporarily without power," the agency said on Twitter.ERCOT calls for rotating outages as extreme winter weather forces generating units offline. “Every grid operator and every electric company is fighting to restore power right now,” said ERCOT President and CEO Bill Magness. https://t.co/rKoWcBZSew A level three emergency notice was issued by the regulator, urging customers to limit power usage and prevent an uncontrolled system-wide outage.The National Weather Service said that an Arctic air mass had spread southwards, well beyond areas accustomed to freezing weather, with winter storm warnings posted for most of the Gulf Coast region, Oklahoma and Missouri.The storms knocked out nearly half the wind power generation capacity of Texas on Sunday.Of the 25,000-plus megawatts of wind power capacity normally available in Texas, 12,000 megawatts was out of service on Sunday morning, an ERCOT spokeswoman said.Wind generation ranks as the second-largest source of electricity in Texas, accounting for 23% of state power supplies last year behind natural gas, which served 45%, ERCOT estimates.Energy traders last week said that some 5-minute power prices in Texas approached $4,000 per megawatt hour. That compares with an Ercot North average of $26 in 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/highest-level-of-energy-emergency-declared-in-texas-to-cope-with-deep-freeze-101613390338666.html
15-02-2021||World||Bangladesh sends more Rohingya refugees to new island||Bangladesh authorities sent a fourth group of Rohingya refugees from Myanmar to a newly developed island in the Bay of Bengal on Monday despite calls by human rights groups for a halt to the process.The roughly 2,000 Rohingya who had been living in the sprawling refugee camps of Cox’s Bazar were sent to Bhasan Char, an island specifically developed to accommodate 100,000 of the 1 million Rohingya who have fled from neighboring Myanmar, M. Mozammel Haque, a commander of the Bangladesh navy, told reporters.With Monday’s group, more than 7,000 refugees have moved to the island since the process started in December.The government has said the arrangement is good for the refugees and the island is designed to offer better living conditions. While human rights groups have criticized the moves and some are being forced to go against their will, the government has insisted that refugees moving to the island have done so voluntarily.More than 1 million Rohingya have fled waves of violent persecution in their native Myanmar and are currently living in overcrowded, squalid refugee camps in Cox’s Bazar district.Bangladesh has said that ultimately it is up to Myanmar to take the refugees back and has called on the international community to put pressure on Myanmar’s government to ensure their safe return.The latest relocation follows a Feb. 1 coup in Myanmar that put the military firmly back in control. The refugees living in Bangladeshi camps say they are now even more fearful to go back to Myanmar.The island surfaced only 20 years ago and was not previously inhabited. It was regularly submerged by monsoon rains but now has flood protection embankments, houses, hospitals and mosques built at a cost of more than $112 million by the Bangladesh navy.International aid agencies have opposed the relocation since it was first proposed in 2015, expressing fear that a big storm could overwhelm the island and endanger thousands of lives. But the government said the new development schemes in the island have made the island safe for living.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/bangladesh-sends-more-rohingya-refugees-to-new-island-101613388466998.html
15-02-2021||World||Russia registers 35 ceasefire violations in Syria in 24 hours||The Russian side of the Russian-Turkish commission monitoring the implementation of the Syrian truce has registered 35 ceasefire violations over the past 24 hours, while the Turkish side has registered 13 truce breaches, the Russian Defense Ministry said on Monday."The Russian part of the representative office of the joint Russian-Turkish Commission for consideration of issues related to violations of the cessation of hostilities recorded 35 facts of opening fire (28 of them according to the Syrian side) in the provinces: Aleppo-2, Idlib-19, Latakia-12, Hama-2. The Turkish part of the representation stated 13 facts of opening fire (the Russian part of the representation confirmed - 0)," the ministry said in its daily bulletin.The ministry added that the Center for Reconciliation of Opposing Sides and Refugee Migration Monitoring in Syria carried out the humanitarian action in the last 24 hours, delivering 1,125 food kits to the residents of the provinces of Aleppo, Quneitra and Al-Hasakah.A further 61 Syrian refugees, including 18 women and 31 children, have returned from Lebanon over the past day through the Jaydet-Yabus and Tell-Kalah checkpoints, the Russian Defense Ministry said in a separate bulletin.Engineering troops from the Syrian armed forces demined 1.7 hectares (4.2 acres) of territory in the provinces of Damascus and Daraa over the past day, the ministry added. They discovered and defused 11 explosive devices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/russia-registers-35-ceasefire-violations-in-syria-in-24-hours-101613389177833.html
15-02-2021||World||Ebola outbreak in Guinea: Symptoms, modes of transmission | All you need to know||Guinea declared the latest Ebola virus disease (EVD) outbreak as an “epidemic” after seven cases of the viral infection and four related deaths were confirmed on Sunday. The confirmation of Ebola cases by the country’s national laboratory marked the first known resurgence in west Africa since an outbreak ended in 2016 after claiming more than 11,300 lives. The earlier Ebola outbreak also began in the same southeastern region where new cases have been found.Dr Matshidiso Moeti, the World Health Organization (WHO) regional director for Africa, said that the UN health agency is supporting the authorities in Guinea to bring the overall response to full speed by helping them set up testing, contact-tracing and treatment structures. “It’s a huge concern to see the resurgence of Ebola in Guinea, a country which has already suffered so much from the disease,” he added.What are the modes of transmission?The Ebola virus infects the human population through contact with blood, secretions, organs or other bodily fluids of infected animals such as fruit bats and nonhuman primates like chimpanzees, gorillas, monkeys, and forest antelope. After the spillover event, the virus spreads through human-to-human transmission via direct contact with infected blood and body fluids, which includes urine, saliva, sweat, faeces, vomit, breast milk, and semen. According to the UN health agency, humans can only spread the virus after they develop signs and symptoms of Ebola.Read | Ebola outbreak in Guinea: Why is it a huge concern? Who is 'patient zero'?What are the symptoms of EVD?The sign and symptoms of the disease may appear anywhere from 2 to 21 days after a person gets infected with the Ebola virus. The initial symptoms often include fever, fatigue, muscle pain, headache, and sore throat, which is followed by vomiting, diarrhoea, rash, both internal and external bleeding (for example, oozing from the gums, or blood in the stools). Laboratory findings of Ebola patient include low white blood cell and platelet counts and elevated liver enzymes.EVD is a rare but severe disease which often proves fatal for humans if untreated. The average case fatality rate of EVD is around 50 per cent and has varied from 25 per cent to 90 per cent in past outbreaks. The recovery depends on good supportive clinical care and the patient’s immune response.Ebola vaccineThe US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved the injectable single-dose Ebola vaccine rVSV-ZEBOV in December 2019. The vaccine, manufactured by Merck, Sharp & Dohme (MSD) Corp. with financial support from the US government, is now prequalified by the WHO and licensed in eight African countries. On January 12, 2021, the four leading international health and humanitarian organisations, including the WHO and Unicef, announced the establishment of a global Ebola vaccine stockpile to ensure outbreak response. The UN health agency said that the stockpile is stored in Switzerland and ready to be shipped to countries for emergency response.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/ebola-outbreak-in-guinea-symptoms-modes-of-transmission-all-you-need-to-know-101613388150899.html
15-02-2021||World||Separatist movement in Catalonia shows resilience despite setbacks||The separatist movement in Spain’s northeast Catalonia has shown resilience, increasing its power in a regional election on the weekend despite years of frustrated ambitions to create a new Mediterranean nation.On the back of a record low turnout in Sunday's vote, the three main parties who want to create a Catalan state expanded their majority in the regional parliament based in Barcelona to 74 seats of the 135-seat chamber, up from 70 in 2017.The strong result for the separatists comes after their 2017 bid for a breakaway ended with several of its leaders in jail, others fleeing abroad from Spanish justice, and the entrenchment of roughly half of Catalonia that strongly supports staying in Spain.Virus fears kept many voters at home, especially in urban areas that trend toward voting for pro-union parties.The impact of the election was felt in Madrid. While the Socialists of Prime Minister Pedro Sánchez got a boost after they won the elections with the most votes, the parties on the right of Spain’s political spectrum were shaken.The far-right Vox party, with its unabashed hardline stance against Catalan secession and illegal immigration, confirmed its ascendancy by entering the Catalan parliament with an impressive 11 seats.The liberal Citizens collapsed from 36 to just 6 seats, putting its future as a party in doubt.The traditional conservatives, the Popular Party, also slid down to just three seats despite the campaign efforts of opposition leader Pablo Casado.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/separatist-movement-in-catalonia-shows-resilience-despite-setbacks-101613387552224.html
15-02-2021||World||UK rolls out hotel quarantine for 'high risk' country returnees||The UK government will on Monday introduce mandatory hotel quarantine rules for arrivals from dozens of countries deemed "high risk" for coronavirus variants, as it tries to stop new strains spreading.The new policy requires all UK citizens and permanent residents entering England from 33 countries on a wider travel ban list to self-isolate at their own expense in approved hotels for 10 days and take several Covid-19 tests.Other visitors from the countries currently on the so-called "red list", which includes all South American nations, South Africa and Portugal, are currently barred from visiting under lockdown rules.Arrivals found to have given false information about being in one of the countries 10 days before travel could receive up to 10 years in prison -- which has drawn criticism for being excessive.The government says it has signed contracts with 16 hotels so far, securing nearly 5,000 rooms near English airports, with a further 58,000 rooms on standby."The rules coming into force today will bolster the quarantine system and provide another layer of security against new variants at the border," Health Secretary Matt Hancock said in a statement on Sunday.The minister said Monday the government had resolved well publicised problems with Heathrow Airport, Britain's major aviation hub."We've been working with the airport and with the border force to make sure everybody knows the process," he told Times Radio."We've worked through all those issues with them. And it does appear to be going smoothly this morning," he added.The 11-night quarantine, costing £1,750 ($2,420, 2,000 euros), includes transport, food, accommodation and security costs, as well as other essential services and testing.Passengers must have a negative Covid-19 test result from within three days of travel, and book and pay for the package before setting off for Britain.They will then take further tests on the second and eighth days of their stays.The hotel occupants will be able to leave their rooms only in "very limited circumstances", with exercise among them but requiring "special permission" from staff or security.Anyone refusing to take tests risks a fine of between £1,000 and £2,000, while those who do not self-isolate could have to pay between £5,000 and £10,000.A limited list of exemptions from the measures include hauliers travelling from Portugal, defence personnel, government contractors and diplomatic missions.- 'Can't be easy' -Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab said Sunday the new regime would provide "extra safeguarding" as Britain looks to ease strict lockdown measures next month after weeks of falling infection rates.The UK government unveiled the plans earlier this month following pressure to tighten Britain's borders amid fears that foreign virus variants could derail the country's so far successful mass vaccination programme.It has vaccinated 15 million of the most vulnerable people with a first jab, and is looking to inoculate all over-50s by May.Ministers last month scrapped the previous "travel corridors" system that allowed unchecked travel from countries with lower caseloads.The UK now requires all arrivals from non-"red list" countries to show negative Covid-19 tests and then self-isolate for 10 days at a place of their own choosing.The government said it had met with stakeholders from various sectors including aviation and hospitality before finalising its plans.Charlie Islam-Harry, manager of the St Giles Heathrow hotel, said staff would do regular welfare checks on guests during their enforced stays, adding: "It can't be easy for them to be in a bedroom for 10 days."jj/jwp/gd||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-rolls-out-hotel-quarantine-for-high-risk-country-returnees-101613385945900.html
15-02-2021||World||Junta deploys more soldiers, armoured vehicles as protests thin in Myanmar||Protesters in Myanmar kept up demands on Monday for the release of ousted leader Aung San Suu Kyi and an end to military rule though crowds were smaller after the junta deployed armoured vehicles and more soldiers on the streets.Suu Kyi, detained since the February 1 coup against her elected government, had been expected to face a court on Monday in connection with charges of illegally importing six walkie-talkie radios but a judge said her remand lasted until Wednesday, her lawyer, Khin Maung Zaw, said.The February 1 coup and the arrest of Nobel peace prize winner Suu Kyi and others have sparked the biggest protests in Myanmar in more than a decade, with hundreds of thousands coming onto the streets to denounce the military's derailment of a tentative transition to democracy."This is a fight for our future, the future of our country," youth activist Esther Ze Naw said at a protest in the main city of Yangon."We don't want to live under a military dictatorship. We want to establish a real federal union where all citizens, all ethnicities are treated equally."The unrest has revived memories in the Southeast Asian nation of bloody outbreaks of opposition to almost half a century of direct army rule, which had ended in 2011, when the military began a process of withdrawing from civilian politics.Violence this time has been limited but on Sunday, police opened fire to disperse protesters at a power plant in northern Myanmar although it was unclear if they were using rubber bullets or live rounds. Two people were hurt, a reporter in the city said.As well as the demonstrations in towns and cities, the military is facing a strike by government workers, part of a civil disobedience movement that is crippling many functions of government.Armoured vehicles were deployed on Sunday in Yangon, the northern town of Myitkyina and Sittwe in the west, the first large-scale use of such vehicles since the coup.More soldiers have also been spotted on the streets to help police who have been largely overseeing crowd control, including members of the 77th Light Infantry Division, a mobile force known for its brutal campaigns against ethnic minority insurgents and against protests in the past.Crowds were smaller though it was unclear if people were intimidated by the soldiers or fatigue was setting in after 12 days of demonstrations."We can't join the protests every day," said a laid-off travel officer worker in Yangon who declined to be identified."But we won't back down ... We're just taking a break."'OUR LEADER'Earlier, more than a dozen police trucks with water cannon vehicles were deployed near the Sule Pagoda in Yangon, one of the city's main demonstration sites.Protesters also gathered outside the central bank, where they held signs calling for support for the civil disobedience movement. An armoured vehicle and several trucks carrying soldiers were parked nearby.Later, police sealed off the headquarters of Suu Kyi's party in Yangon shortly before protesters arrived and chanted slogans, a witness said.Police in the capital, Naypyitaw, detained about 20 school students protesting by a road. Images posted on social media by one of the students showed them chanting slogans as they were taken away in a police bus.Protesters then gathered outside the police station where they were being held to demand their release, media reported.Media earlier showed ranks of protesters marching in Naypyitaw with pictures of Suu Kyi with the message: "we want our leader".Suu Kyi, 75, spent nearly 15 years under house arrest for her efforts to end military rule.The judge in the capital, Naypyitaw, had spoken to Suu Kyi by video conferencing and she had asked if she could hire a lawyer, Khin Maung Zaw told Reuters.The government and army could not be reached for comment.'DESPERATION'The army has been carrying out nightly arrests and has given itself search and detention powers. At least 400 people have been detained, the group Assistance Association for Political Prisoners said.On Sunday, the military published penal code amendments aimed at stifling dissent and residents reported an internet outage after midnight on Sunday which lasted until about 9 a.m."It's as if the generals have declared war on the people," UN Special Rapporteur Tom Andrews said on Twitter."Late night raids; mounting arrests; more rights stripped away; another Internet shutdown; military convoys entering communities. These are signs of desperation."Suu Kyi's party won a 2015 election and another on November 8 but the military said the vote was fraudulent and used that complaint to justify the coup. The electoral commission dismissed accusations of fraud.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/junta-deploys-more-soldiers-armoured-vehicles-as-protests-thin-in-myanmar-101613383299209.html
15-02-2021||World||Japan debating on response to China's new coast guard law||Amid the growing belligerence of China in the East and South China Sea following Beijing's enactment of a new coast guard law, Japan is now deliberating on an apt response to the legislation, which is poised to escalate tensions in the region.The new Chinese law allows Beijing's coast guard to use weapons against foreign ships that it sees as illegally entering its waters, sparking fear that Japanese vessels navigating around the Senkaku Islands would be targeted.A 2020 US Department of Defense report notes that over the past decade, China has more than doubled the number of large coast guard ships over 1,000 tons, from about 60 in 2010 to over 130 as of last year, writes Eric Johnson for The Japan Times.As per the new law, China's coast guard can now forcibly remove buildings constructed by other countries on territories claimed by the country and authorises the use of water cannons, handcuffs and tear gas to force a vessel to stop and be boarded.As the Senkaku islands are claimed by both Beijing and Tokyo and the South China Sea is claimed by the Philippines, Taiwan and Vietnam, among others, China's position is that the new law streamlines operations and that the use of force is a common practice among the other nations, including Japan and South Korea.Earlier this month, during a video meeting, Tokyo had conveyed its 'strong concerns' to China over the new law authorising military force in the waters. China must not use the legislation, in a way that goes against international law, said Chief Cabinet Secretary Katsunobu Kato.However, China continues to claim that the Senkaku Islands are the country's 'inherent territory'.In December last year, Toshinari Matsuo, director of the Operational Law Office at Japan's Maritime Self-Defense Force's Command and Staff College, wrote that the new law went beyond the norms established by the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS), reported The Japan Times.The law states that a coastal state may take the necessary steps against foreign vessels passing through its territorial waters if their passage is not innocent.Furthermore, UNCLOS allows for limited functional jurisdiction outside territorial waters, but only where territorial sovereignty is internationally recognised and not, as is the case with the Senkakus or the South China Sea, where territorial sovereignty is disputed, writes Johnson.Meanwhile, US President Joe Biden has reaffirmed the previous US policy that the Senkaku islands are covered under Article 5 of the US-Japan security treaty. However, Japan spotted Chinese government vessels inside contiguous and territorial waters near the uninhabited Senkakus for a record 333 days.With the passage of China's new law, concerns remain whether there would be enough time for Japan, under its current laws, to effectively respond to an armed attack.In the past, there was some debate about changing the law to allow the Self-Defense Forces (SDF) to respond, under specifically defined conditions, at the same time as the Japan Coast Guard or the police. But there is reportedly opposition within the transport ministry, which is in charge of the coast guard, as well as the National Police Agency, according to The Japan Times.Johnson further wrote that the move could also be politically controversial and can create tensions between the immediate need to respond to a threat and the fear that sending in armed forces could escalate a hostile situation further.In the early 2010s, China and Japan were mired in a territorial row over the Senkakus. Beijing has rapidly built up artificial islands with military infrastructure in the region, in its claim of sovereignty over almost the entire maritime region.Moreover, China has conflicting territorial claims with four of the ten members of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations -- Brunei, Malaysia, the Philippines and Vietnam -- as well as Taiwan in the South China Sea.Meanwhile, US warships carried out freedom of navigation operations in an apparent bid to challenge Chinese claims and actions in the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/japan-debating-on-response-to-china-s-new-coast-guard-law-101613382297815.html
15-02-2021||World||New Zealand receives first batch of Pfizer Covid-19 vaccine: PM Jacinda Ardern||The first 60,000 doses of the Pfizer/BioNTech coronavirus vaccine arrived in New Zealand on Monday, Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern said.The news comes as New Zealand put its most populous city of Auckland on three-day Level 3 lockdown after detecting three Covid-19 community cases, which were the more transmissible UK virus variant. The rest of the country moved to Level 2 lockdown for the same period. The restrictions will be reviewed on a 24-hour basis."I can now add and confirm that the first batch of the Pfizer Covid-19 vaccine arrived in New Zealand this morning. Approximately 60,000 doses or 30,000 courses landed in Auckland," Ardern told a press conference.The shipment arrived on a Singapore Airlines flight from Belgium via Singapore."That's more than enough doses to vaccinate our frontline workforce over the coming weeks," the prime minister added.The rollout will start this Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/new-zealand-receives-first-batch-of-pfizer-covid-19-vaccine-pm-jacinda-ardern-101613381376517.html
15-02-2021||World||Israeli strike near Syrian capital kills six Iran-backed fighters: Reports||Israel fired several missiles early on Monday targeting areas near the Syrian capital, Damascus, Syria's state news agency reported. An opposition war-monitoring group said the strikes killed six Iran-backed fighters.The SANA news agency claimed that Syrian air defenses shot down most of the missiles, which it said were fired from Syria's Israeli-occupied Golan Heights.The Britain-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, an opposition war monitor with a network of activists on the ground, said the strikes hit positions of the Syrian army's Fourth Division in the mountains near the highway that links Damascus with the Lebanese capital of Beirut. It said another strike hit Syrian army positions in Kisweh, just south of Damascus.The Observatory said that of the six Iran-backed fighters killed, four were near the Damascus-Beirut highway and two in Kisweh. Weapons depots were also struck in both areas, it added.Israel has launched hundreds of strikes against Iran-linked military targets in Syria over the years but rarely acknowledges or discusses such operations.Israel views Iranian entrenchment on its northern frontier as a red line, and has repeatedly struck Iran-linked facilities and weapons convoys destined for Lebanon's militant Hezbollah group.Monday's strike was the first since February 3, when a Syrian military official said Israel fired surface-to-surface missiles at targets in southern Syria, causing only material damage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/israeli-strike-near-syrian-capital-kills-six-iran-backed-fighters-reports-101613380602042.html
15-02-2021||World||End of lockdown? UK PM Johnson mulls path out after 15 million vaccinated||British Prime Minister Boris Johnson will judge this week how fast England can exit Covid-19 lockdown after vaccinating 15 million of its most vulnerable people, but the health minister said death and hospital admission numbers were still too high.With nearly a quarter of the United Kingdom's population now inoculated with a first dose of a Covid vaccine in a little over two months, Johnson is under pressure from some lawmakers and businesses to reopen the shuttered economy."We've got to watch the data," Health Secretary Matt Hancock told Sky News. "Everybody wants to get out of this as quickly as we safely can, and both as quickly, but also as safely, are important.""The question is a judgement of how quickly and safely, how quickly we can do that safely. That's the judgment that we're making this week, looking at the data, ahead of the prime minister setting out the roadmap, on the 22nd," he said.The biggest and swiftest global vaccine rollout in history is seen as the best chance of exiting the Covid-19 pandemic which has killed 2.4 million people, tipped the global economy into its worst peacetime slump since the Great Depression and upended normal life for billions.Britain has vaccinated 15.062 million people with a first dose and 537,715 with a second dose, the fastest rollout per capita of any large country.VACCINE CERTIFICATESHancock said the British government was speaking to other countries across the world about giving British people certificates showing they had been vaccinated so that they could travel abroad in the future to countries that require them."There is this international work going on because if other countries require (proof of vaccination) we want to allow Brits to be able to travel to those countries," Hancock said."We'd want to be able to facilitate that sort of vaccine certification, but it isn't anything we're planning to introduce here," he said, adding that a so-called vaccine passport was not something that would be required to access services in the UK.The United Kingdom has the world's fifth-worst official death toll - currently 117,166 - after the United States, Brazil, Mexico and India.A new Covid-19 hotel quarantine system for arrivals from 33 "red list" countries, intended to limit the spread of new variants of the virus, appears to be working smoothly a few hours after it was introduced, Hancock said."As of 6.30, when I got my latest update, this is working smoothly, we've been working with the airports and with the border force to make sure everybody knows the process," Hancock told Times Radio.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/end-of-lockdown-uk-pm-johnson-mulls-path-out-after-15-million-vaccinated-101613379020629.html
15-02-2021||World||Surge in Britain’s renewable power exposes grid risks||A record year for renewable power in the UK showed the need for a broader suite of green technologies to balance the grid once fossil fuels fade away entirely.Green power exceeded coal and gas generation in the country’s energy mix for the first time in 2020. While this is a step in the right direction to hit strict climate goals, technologies like nuclear, hydrogen and carbon capture are needed to compensate for when the wind doesn’t blow or the sun doesn’t shine, according to a report by Imperial College London for Drax Group Plc.Wind power produced a quarter of Britain’s electricity last year, however the climb in output lead to more than 250 million pounds ($346 million) being spent on costs where energy had to be dumped because of network constraints.Overall electricity demand in Britain fell by 6% last year, the largest year-on-year drop on record, which allowed renewable energy to contribute to a greater percentage of power generation. Fossil fuel generation dropped below 100 terra-watt hours for the first time since 1960.“The next steps we must take towards a net zero power system will be more challenging, driving out the last sources of fossil carbon will require us to go beyond just having more wind and solar power,” Dr Iain Staffell of Imperial College London said.A greater reliance on renewable energy exposes the system to greater swings in power production, with cold, cloudy and still days causing drops in output. This can lead to surges in power prices, and much higher grid balancing costs.National Grid Plc issued several warnings of tight electricity margins over winter, when demand was expected to be high and wind power output low. Systems for storing energy such as batteries can provide grid balancing services to make up for a drop in renewable power.Over the weekend, UK wind output climbed to a record of 14,031 megawatts, beating the previous record in January, according to National Grid data. Periods of strong output when there is lower demand, such as overnight or weekends, can lead to higher costs for consumers as power plants may need to be paid by the network operator to be turned off.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/surge-in-britain-s-renewable-power-exposes-grid-risks-101613378867015.html
15-02-2021||World||No new community Covid-19 cases found in New Zealand since lockdown||As people in Auckland adjusted to a new lockdown on Monday, health officials said they'd found no evidence the coronavirus had spread further in the community, raising hopes the restrictions might be short-lived.New Zealand's largest city was hurriedly placed into a three-day lockdown Sunday after three unexplained virus cases were found. It's the country's first lockdown in six months and represents a setback in its largely successful efforts to control the virus.Director-General of Health Ashley Bloomfield said the negative test results since the first three were found was an encouraging start, but cautioned a fuller picture of the outbreak wouldn't emerge until Tuesday, when the results from an expanded testing regimen would be known.New Zealand also announced its first batch of vaccine had arrived. Officials said the shipment of about 60,000 doses of the vaccine developed by Pfizer and BioNTech would initially be prioritized on border workers.Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern said the three community cases were of the more contagious variant first found in Britain and that genome testing hadn’t linked them to any previous known cases."This is a highly transmissible and a fast moving strain, one that requires extra care in order to stamp it out, and this is exactly what our approach entails,” Ardern said.New Zealand’s greatest vulnerability has been at the border.New cases are regularly caught among returning travelers, all of whom are required to spend two weeks in quarantine. Despite precautions, there have been several times when the virus has leaked out from the border before being controlled again, and officials are trying to determine whether that’s happened again.In the latest case, an Auckland mother, father and daughter caught the disease. Officials said the mother works at a catering company that does laundry for airlines, and they're investigating whether there is a link to infected passengers.The rest of New Zealand outside of Auckland has also had restrictions imposed for three days, including mandatory mask wearing on public transport and limiting crowd sizes to 100.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/no-new-community-covid-19-cases-found-in-new-zealand-since-lockdown-101613378642457.html
15-02-2021||World||Private French schools at the frontline of Macron's plan to 'fight all forms of separatism'||More than three dozen police officers descended on a small private school in Paris, blocked the 92 students inside their classrooms, took photos everywhere, even inside the refrigerator, and grilled the school director in her office.“It was like they were moving in on a drug deal,” Hanane Loukili, the director and co-founder of the MHS middle and high school said, recalling the Nov. 17 scene.Loukili didn’t know it then, but a team from the Cell to Fight Radical Islam and Community Withdrawal, or CLIR, had arrived for an inspection. The dragnet sweeps schools, shops, clubs or mosques to rout out “radicalization." Within a week, a shaken Loukili informed students their school was shutting down.Loukili insists she is no radical, but such operations illustrate the extent of French efforts to fight extremism as lawmakers prepare to vote Tuesday on a bill aimed at snuffing it out.The MHS school had an unusual profile. It was secular and co-educational but allowed female Muslim students to wear headscarves in class — forbidden in public schools — and to pray during breaks. Unlike private Muslim schools in France, where headscarves are allowed, MHS did not offer religion or theology courses.Loukili and others at the school claim it was a perfect target in what some say is an uncomfortable climate for France's Muslims.Scrubbing France clean of radicals and their breeding grounds is a priority cause of President Emmanuel Macron in a nation bloodied by terror attacks, including the beheading of a teacher outside his school in a suburb outside Paris in October, followed by a deadly attack inside the basilica in Nice.The proposed legislation is intended to re-anchor secularism in a changing France, where Muslims are increasingly visible and Islam — the nation’s No. 2 religion — is gaining a stronger voice.The legislation, expected to pass the first critical vote, will also expand and facilitate the crackdown.Along with the bill, contested by some Muslims, politicians and others, such strong-arm inspections risk accentuating the climate of suspicion many Muslims feel in a country where the vast majority of Muslims don't hold extremist views.Loukili, herself a Muslim, is well aware of major problems she and her school faced linked to fire hazards, but fervently denied in an Associated Press interview, any links to radicalism by her or staff at the school, which opened in 2015.Only on Dec. 9, did Loukili learn her situation was graver than she thought. A statement from the Police Prefecture and prosecutors office suggested the closure was part of a growing push to “fight all forms of separatism” — the word coined by Macron for extremists who undermine the nation’s values in a bid to create a “counter society.”Dragnet raids like those unleashed against Loukili's school, which were initially carried out as an experiment shortly after Macron took office in 2017, have become the underside of the presidential priority, unearthing soft spots on a local level to nip Islamist radicalization in the bud. They now reach across the country, with police accompanied by education or other specialists depending on the target.In December alone, teams carried out 476 raids and closed 36 establishments of various types, according to Interior Ministry figures. Since November 2019, when the program marked its first year, 3,881 establishments have been inspected and 126 closed, mostly small businesses but also two schools, ministry figures show.One was an underground school with no windows or educational program, along with sports clubs where preaching and obligatory prayer are behind-the scenes activities. Five were closed.The proposed law and the Cell to Fight Radical Islam program, led by prefects in each region, are just part of a many-layered operation to rout out what authorities call “enemies of the Republic.” Mayors of towns considered “most impacted” by the extremist threat have been asked to sign a charter agreeing to cooperate in the hunt for radicals, like flagging potential suspects, the AP has learned.The Cell to Fight Radical Islam would also get a boost from the planned law, which would provide new legal tools to shut down facilities.“Today, we’re obliged to use administrative motives to close establishments that don’t respect the law,” said an official close to Citizenship Minister Marlene Schiappa, who oversees the Cell to Fight Radical Islam program and is also a sponsor of the proposed law, along with Interior Minister Gerald Darmanin.The official, not authorized to speak publicly, could not address the case of the MHS school. Police also would not comment.The school's problems began more than a year ago with safety concerns linked mainly to the large building where it was housed. Loukili, its director and a math teacher at the school, was ordered to close the school, to stop teaching and to not run any future educational establishment. She returns to court March 17.“I think they (accuse) us of separatism because they needed to make an example,” Loukili said, noting the school’s Paris location, its fragile finances and the leeway given to girls to wear headscarves.A mother who had to scramble to find new schools for her children after the school closed said her son is fine but her 15-year-old daughter, who insists on wearing a head scarf, had to switch to a Muslim school where the head coverings are allowed but where boys and girls are separated inside classrooms and at lunch.Her daughter, unhappy in the strict climate, “comes home with her stomach in knots,” said the woman, who asked to be identified only by her first name, Rafika, to protect her daughter.The MHS school “is a school like me, what I call the France of today,” said Rafika, a working mother who wears a head scarf. “It’s a real melting pot.”Jean-Riad Kechaou, a history teacher in the working class Paris suburb of Chelles, sees anger in his Muslim adolescent students.“It comes from this permanent stigmatization of their religion,” he said. “In the head of an adolescent of 12, 13, 14, 15 years old, everything gets mixed up and what comes out is his religion has been completely dirtied and fingers are pointed at him.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/private-french-schools-at-the-frontline-of-macron-s-plan-to-fight-all-forms-of-separatism-101613375483656.html
15-02-2021||World||Tech giants 'close' to deals with Australian media||Google and Facebook are "very close" to deals with major Australian media to pay for news, a top government official said Monday, as the tech giants scramble to avoid landmark regulation.Australian Treasurer Josh Frydenberg said talks with Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg and Google CEO Sundar Pichai had made "great progress" in resolving a standoff being closely watched around the world.Australia is poised to adopt legislation that would force digital companies to pay for news content, something that would create a global precedent and, according to Facebook and Google, wreck the way the internet works.The companies have threatened to partially withdraw services from the country if the rules become law, sparking a war of words with Canberra.But that disagreement appeared to ease Monday, with Frydenberg telling public broadcaster ABC that talks with the companies "made great progress over the course of the weekend"."I think we're very close to some very significant commercial deals," he said, "and in doing so that will transform the domestic media landscape."The agreements could be enough to see Facebook and Google avoid the most severe parts of the legislation -- including binding arbitration to ensure they are not using their online advertising duopoly to dictate terms in deals with media companies.Following Frydenberg's remarks, SevenWest Media, owner of broadcaster 7NEWS and The West Australian newspaper, announced Monday a new agreement for its content to be hosted on Google's News Showcase product.The Sydney Morning Herald reported the first major deal with a large Australian news organisation was worth more than Aus$30 million (US$23 million) a year.SevenWest chairman Kerry Stokes said it was a "great outcome" and hailed the government's work on its news media bargaining code as "instrumental in the outcome of this ground-breaking agreement".The firm will join several smaller local publishers on News Showcase, which Google said had received more than one million views since launching in Australia eight days ago.Frydenberg's comments suggest major Australian media organisations, such as Rupert Murdoch's News Corp and Nine Entertainment, could be close to reaching similar deals.A Google spokesman said the company was in discussions with publishers both "large and small" while a Facebook spokesperson said the firm had been negotiating to "land commercial deals that reflect the commercial value of news content on our platform".Peter Lewis, director of the Centre for Responsible Technology at the Australia Institute think tank, said the platforms' current willingness to negotiate showed regulation was "essential"."Any deals that Google and Facebook do will only occur because of the prospect of the bargaining code -- so it is already doing its job," he told AFP.Frydenberg hinted to local media that amendments could be made to the code before it is presented to parliament Wednesday, but his office declined to provide details.Lewis said the treasurer's discretion on what to include in the code -- such as designating which tech firms are covered -- was "a critical leverage point for the government".News groups worldwide have seen their businesses ravaged by the loss of advertising dollars that once flowed to their newspapers but are now overwhelmingly captured by the big digital platforms.Thousands of journalists' jobs have been lost and numerous outlets forced to close in Australia alone over the past decade.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/tech-giants-close-to-deals-with-australian-media-101613373946430.html
15-02-2021||World||China's labour rights issues a threat to its trade deal with EU||Though Beijing has touted its investment pact with the European Union (EU) as a strategic breakthrough, concerns have arisen about the deal, which may not get the final approval of some European lawmakers owing to the labour rights issues in China.In the EU-China Comprehensive Agreement on Investment (CAI) that was announced on December 30 last year, China had agreed to open some of its restricted markets to European businesses and had agreed to ratify two international conventions on forced labour. However, critics say the deal lacks enforcement measures to ensure Beijing makes meaningful improvements for workers, wrote Mimi Lau for the South China Morning Post (SCMP).The deal is expected to face intense resistance from some European lawmakers, while international unionists, who say the pact will do nothing to stop human rights abuses or protect labour rights in China, have vowed to ramp up pressure over the deal.Over the past few years, China has faced mounting criticism, including from the EU and the United States over the alleged use of Uyghurs and other ethnic minority groups in forced labour camps, mainly in the Xinjiang region.Beijing, however, has denied the claims, stating that it runs vocational training centres to combat religious extremism and terrorism, according to SCMP.The International Labour Organization (ILO) has identified eight fundamental conventions covering areas considered to be basic principles and rights at work, like forced labour, collective bargaining and the right to form trade unions.Though China, a member of the ILO has already ratified four of the less controversial conventions - on equal remuneration, discrimination, minimum age and child labour - it has not agreed to ratify two conventions on granting workers' freedom of association and protect their right to organise."...The Chinese government has denied the core labour rights of freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining. Independent trade unions are seen in the light of the Polish experience as an essential threat to [Communist] Party rule," said Christoph Scherrer, a professor of globalisation and politics.The EU should not be silent on human rights abuses though it may, in the short run, be unlikely to convince or push China to do things they don't want to do through a trade agreement, opined Frank Hoffer, a research fellow at the Global Labour University and a former ILO official.Mimi further wrote in her article that governments are generally reluctant to ratify conventions that require legal enactment or revision for compliance. Ratification of ILO conventions by member countries could expose them to its supervisory mechanisms for alleged failures in implementation, said Sean Cooney, an international and comparative labour law expert at the University of Melbourne."Once they have ratified conventions, countries have to defend their record. Countries with low ratifications, such as the US and China, may be wary of these processes," he said.Cooney further said that ratifying the forced labour convention could be politically controversial for China, as it requires member states to suppress any forced labour as a means of political coercion, education or as punishment for holding political views or ideologies opposed to the established political, social and economic system.It is also unlikely for China to go down the same path as Vietnam, which ratified conventions and enacted laws to allow independent worker organisations after it signed a free trade agreement with the EU in 2019.According to international law experts, the EU-China deal could lead to "incremental improvement" at best, in areas that are not completely incompatible with the nature of China's political system, reported SCMP.The deal had not resulted in any new commitments on labour rights, nor had a time frame been set for China to ratify the conventions, said Surya Deva, an associate professor at City University of Hong Kong's School of Law."Even if China ratifies these two conventions related to forced labour in the best-case scenario, there is no guarantee of their meaningful implementation," Deva said."Will it be realistic for some Uyghurs to approach a Chinese court against alleged forced labour? The harsh reality is that unless China allows independent trade unions, creates space for civil society as well as the media to monitor labour rights abuses, and establishes independent courts, the situation will not change much on the ground," he added.Deva further mentioned that the EU-China deal would have added value if it provided for an external system of monitoring and accountability for systematic labour rights violations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinas-labour-rights-issues-a-threat-to-its-trade-deal-with-eu-101613372514108.html
15-02-2021||World||At Camp David retreat, President Biden hangs out with family, beats grandkids at Mario Kart||President Joe Biden spent his third week in office visiting the Pentagon, touring the National Institutes of Health and working on the administration’s Covid-19 response.He capped it off by beating one of his granddaughters at Mario Kart during his first presidential visit to Camp David, the historic retreat for USleaders.That’s what Camp David has traditionally offered presidents: a respite from Washington where they can shed their ties and relax with family. The compound in the Maryland mountains just 60 miles from the capital features everything from a bowling alley to an archery range.It’s been used by every president since Franklin Delano Roosevelt first went there in 1943 as a personal hideaway, and has been the site of major diplomatic negotiations and policy discussions throughout history, according to Michael Giorgione, who served as commander of Camp David for Presidents Bill Clinton and George W. Bush and wrote the book “Inside Camp David.”With the exception of Donald Trump — he generally preferred his own private clubs — every president has used Camp David "for a personal getaway, an escape from the clamor and the noise and the likes of the White House, and really go to this exclusive mountain retreat. That’s one purpose. And the other is to bring world leaders there,” Giorgione said.When Roosevelt first arrived, the rustic retreat was ″a hide-out with little hot water and with brush growing to the windowsills,” former Associated Press White House reporter Dale Nelson wrote in his 1995 history, ″The President is at Camp David.″ Still, Roosevelt somewhat fantastically dubbed it “Shangri-La," the name of the utopian community in the popular 1933 novel “Lost Horizon.”When Dwight Eisenhower took over, he added a putting green and a new name: Camp David, after his father and his grandson.Over the years, presidents made upgrades to suit their tastes. Richard Nixon added a heated swimming pool, and George H.W. Bush installed a regulation horseshoe range. Barack Obama, known for his love of basketball, built a court.The compound also features a movie theater, skeet shooting range, horseback riding and tennis courts.“I leave my troubles outside the gate,” Lady Bird Johnson, wife of President Lyndon Johnson, once said of the camp.Biden himself told reporters before departing Washington for the compound that his main plans for the long weekend were to “just hang out with the family and do what we always do.” While presidents typically take the Marine One helicopter for the brief trip, weather forced the president to fly to Hagerstown, Maryland, via Air Force One, before taking a motorcade to the camp.His granddaughter Naomi posted on her Instagram Saturday night a clip of Biden playing the video game, captioning it, “a little rusty, but he still won (barely).”Biden took work with him, though, meeting with national security advisers on Saturday, issuing a statement on Trump’s acquittal in his impeachment trial Saturday night and signing an executive order reestablishing a White House office on religious engagement on Sunday.The compound's history includes more than just games of golf and winter sledding. It’s also played host to foreign dignitaries and has been a gathering place for diplomacy. Giorgione says the camp’s relaxed atmosphere lends itself to relationship-building.“There’s a certain feeling of going to camp as opposed to the White House, which is a little more formal, a little more stuffy if you’d say, and certain presidents find a much better connection at camp than they do at the White House,” he said.Roosevelt hosted British Prime Minister Winston Churchill there in 1943 to help lay the groundwork for the Normandy invasion, in the first visit by a foreign leader.The camp became synonymous with fevered, last-ditch diplomatic negotiations after President Jimmy Carter invited Israeli Prime Minister Menachem Begin and Egyptian President Anwar Sadat there in 1978 to negotiate a peace deal. After 13 days of tense talks, the two agreed to a framework that ultimately led to peace between the two nations.Bill Clinton tried to replicate that diplomatic alchemy when he invited Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Barak and Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat to Camp David for Mideast peace talks in 2000. After two weeks of negotiations, the summit ended without an agreement.George W. Bush visited the camp frequently, using it to entertain an array of foreign leaders as well as for a Cabinet retreat to plot out his administration’s response to the Sept. 11 attacks.In 2012, Obama hosted the Group of Eight summit for world leaders there, after Occupy Wall Street protests made his hometown of Chicago out of the question. World leaders stayed in the compound’s 12 cabins, and could spend their free time mingling on the grounds.Trump spent little time there and didn’t host any foreign dignitaries. He once joked to a reporter: “You know how long you’d like it? For about 30 minutes.”But Giorgione said he expected that Biden, with his appreciation for diplomacy, would likely use the space to host foreign leaders after the coronavirus pandemic, which has precluded most in-person gatherings, is under control. He said when foreign leaders descend on Camp David, it can be like an “adult sleepover.”“Going to camp in the cabins creates an atmosphere where leaders are very close together. There’s no large conference room with chandeliers and coffee service. This is a homespun, rustic get-together,” he said.Attendees “walk the trails together, we go for a bike ride, we sit down at a nice table in a small conference room.”“It created this art of having to get down in each other’s personal space, and find time to legitimately talk,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/at-camp-david-retreat-president-biden-hangs-out-with-family-beats-grandkids-at-mariokart-101613370760516.html
15-02-2021||World||Aung San Suu Kyi detention extended as protests continue in Myanmar||Myanmar's military leaders have extended their detention of deposed leader Aung San Suu Kyi, whose remand was set to expire Monday and whose freedom is a key demand of the crowds of people continuing to protest this month's military coup.Suu Kyi will now be remanded until Feb. 17, when she will likely appear in court by videoconference, according to Khin Maung Zaw, a lawyer asked by Suu Kyi’s party to represent her.Suu Kyi's extended detention is likely to further inflame tensions between the military, which seized power a Feb. 1 coup, and the protesters who have taken to the streets of cities across the Southeast Asian nation seeking the return of the government they elected.Protesters continued to gather across Myanmar on Monday following a night in which authorities cut the country’s internet access and increased the security presence in major cities seeking to curtail demonstrations.Thousands of engineers marched on the streets of Mandalay, the country’s second-largest city, chanting and holding signs that read: “Free our leader,” “Who stands with justice?” and “Stop arresting people illegally at midnight.”In Yangon, the country’s most populous city, fewer protesters gathered on Monday due to the loss of the internet and reports of military vehicles on the streets. Nevertheless, several hundred anti-coup demonstrators were outside the Central Bank of Myanmar building, where there were also military trucks full of soldiers, riot police, water-cannon trucks and armored personnel carriers.Demonstrators carried placards that read “#SupportCDM #SaveMyanmar.” CDM refers to the civil disobedience movement that has seen doctors, engineers and others in Myanmar refuse to work until the military releases elected political leaders and returns the country to civilian rule.Some protesters posed for photographs in front of military vehicles while holding red signs that said “Join in CDM.”When the military seized power, it detained Suu Kyi and members of her government and prevented recently elected lawmakers from opening a new session of Parliament. The junta, led by Senior Gen. Min Aung Hlaing, said it stepped in because the government failed to properly investigate allegations of fraud in last year’s election, which Suu Kyi’s National League for Democracy party won in a landslide. The state election commission refuted that contention, saying there is no evidence to support it.An order on Sunday that appeared to be from the Ministry of Transport and Communications told mobile phone service providers to shut down internet connections from 1 a.m. to 9 a.m. Monday. It circulated widely on social media, as did a notice said to be from service provider Oredoo Myanmar containing the same details.On Sunday, ambassadors from the United States and Canada and 12 European nations called on Myanmar’s security forces to refrain from violence against those “protesting the overthrow of their legitimate government.”They condemned the arrests of political leaders and activists as well as the military’s interference with communications.“We support the people of Myanmar in their quest for democracy, freedom, peace, and prosperity,” they said in a joint statement issued late Sunday night. “The world is watching.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/aung-san-suu-kyi-detention-extended-as-protests-continue-in-myanmar-101613371992872.html
15-02-2021||World||US rapper Nicki Minaj's father killed in hit-and-run||The father of rapper Nicki Minaj has died after being struck by a hit-and-run driver near New York City, police said Sunday.Robert Maraj, 64, was walking on a road in Mineola, Long Island at 6:15 pm (2315 GMT) on Friday when he was hit, Nassau County Police Department said in a statement.The driver left the scene of the accident, and Maraj was taken to hospital, where he was pronounced dead on Saturday."The investigation is ongoing," police added.The statement did not specify Maraj's relationship to Minaj, but a police spokesman confirmed he was her father.Minaj, 38, was born in Trinidad and Tobago and raised in the Queens borough of New York City.The rapper has been nominated for ten Grammy awards during her career.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-rapper-nicki-minaj-s-father-killed-in-hitandrun-101613370262682.html
15-02-2021||World||Donald Trump looks to reassert himself after impeachment acquittal as Republicans gear up for 2022 midterm elections||Donald Trump took in the win at Mar-a-Lago, surrounded by friends and family. His lawyers celebrated with hugs and smiles. One joked, "We’re going to Disney World!”Now acquitted in his second Senate impeachment trial, Trump is preparing for the next phase of his post-presidency life. Feeling emboldened by the trial's outcome, he is expected to reemerge from a self-imposed hibernation at his club in Palm Beach, Florida, and is eyeing ways to reassert his power.But after being barred from Twitter, the former president lacks the social media bullhorn that fueled his political rise. And he's confronting a Republican Party deeply divided over the legacy of his jarring final days in office, culminating in the Jan. 6 storming of the Capitol. Searing video images of the day played on loop during his impeachment trial, which ended Saturday.Trump remains popular among the GOP base, but many Republicans in Washington have cooled to him. Never before have so many members of a president's party — seven GOP senators, in his case — voted for his removal in a Senate trial.Some may work to counter efforts by Trump to support extreme candidates in next year's congressional primaries.Undeterred, friends and allies expect Trump to resume friendly media interviews after weeks of silence. He has met with political aides to discuss efforts to help Republicans try to take control of the House and Senate in the 2022 midterms elections. He remains fixated on exacting revenge on Republicans who supported his impeachment or resisted his efforts to overturn the results of the November election won by Democrat Joe Biden.“I imagine you’ll probably be hearing a lot more from him in the coming days,” senior adviser Jason Miller said.In a statement after the vote, Trump offered few clues, but was defiant as he told supporters their movement “has only just begun.”“In the months ahead I have much to share with you, and I look forward to continuing our incredible journey together to achieve American greatness for all of our people,” he said.Sen. Lindsey Graham, who spoke with Trump on Saturday night, acknowledged that Trump is “mad at some folks,” but also “ready to move on and rebuild the Republican Party” and “excited about 2022."In their conversations, Graham has stressed to Trump, who has threatened to start his own party to punish disloyal Republicans, that the GOP needs him to win.“I said, ‘Mr. President, this MAGA movement needs to continue. We need to unite the party. Trump-plus is the way back in 2022,’” Graham, R-S.C., told “Fox News Sunday.”"My goal is to win in 2022 to stop the most radical agenda I’ve seen coming out of the Democratic presidency of Joe Biden. We can’t do that without Donald Trump, so he’s ready to hit the trail and I’m ready to work with him,” Graham said.Graham said Senate Republican leader Mitch McConnell, who voted to acquit but then delivered a scalding denunciation of Trump, “got a load off a chest, obviously.” Graham said later in the interview: “If you want to get something off your chest, fine, but I'm into winning."At his Palm Beach club on Saturday night, Trump was in a joyous mood as he enjoyed dinner on a patio packed with people. After a mellow last several weeks, one member described a party atmosphere not felt since before the election.Still, Trump isn't in the clear yet. No longer protected by a Justice Department opinion against the prosecution of sitting presidents, he now faces multiple, ongoing criminal investigations.In Georgia, the Fulton County district attorney has opened a criminal investigation into “attempts to influence” the election, including Trump's call to Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger demanding that the official find enough votes to overturn Biden’s victory.In New York, Attorney General Letitia James is investigating whether Trump and his company improperly inflated the value of his assets on annual financial statements in order to secure loans and obtain tax benefits. Manhattan District Attorney Cyrus Vance Jr. continues his own investigation, which has included grand jury testimony.“He didn’t get away with anything — yet," McConnell, R-Ky., after the vote. “We have a criminal justice system in this country. We have civil litigation. And former presidents are not immune from being accountable by either one."McConnell voted to acquit Trump on the grounds the trial was unconstitutional because he is no longer in office, but insisted, “There’s no question — none — that President Trump is practically and morally responsible for provoking the events of the day."That sharp rebuke from his once-loyal defender underscores how dramatically Trump's stock has fallen in Washington since his first impeachment trial just over a year ago. But the desire to be rid of Trump is not shared across the country, where Republicans who have dared to admonish him have faced swift rebuke.Rep. Liz Cheney, R-Wyo., was forced to defend her third-in-line leadership position after she voted in favor of impeachment. On Saturday, Louisiana’s Republican Party quickly censured Sen. Bill Cassidy, one of the seven Republicans senators who voted for Trump's conviction.In an interview Sunday with ABC’s “This Week,” Cassidy seemed at peace with his decision.“I think his force wanes,” he said of Trump. “The Republican Party is more than just one person. The Republican Party is about ideas.”But how long Trump retains his grip remains an open question, especially with a slew of likely 2024 candidates now trying to take the mantle.Some, like Maryland Gov. Larry Hogan, are advocating a clean break from Trump, who ended his presidency with a record low 34% approval rating according to Gallup polling. Others have stressed the need to keep his voters engaged, perhaps with candidates who trumpet the policies Trump championed, but with a less caustic style that might win back suburban voters.In a sign of his enduring power, the Republican National Committee and other groups spent the trial sending fundraising appeals urging their followers to “Stand with Trump” and “SAVE President Trump’s Legacy,” in the words of the National Republican Congressional Committee.“Oh, time is going to take care of that some way or another," said Sen. Chuck Grassley, R-Iowa, told reporters Saturday. "But remember, in order to be a leader you got to have followers. So we’re gonna find out, whoever leads. But everybody’s going to be involved. We’re a big tent.”While the Senate failed to bar Trump from running again for office, many believe he has done too much damage to be a credible candidate himself in 2024.Republican Sen. Pat Toomey of Pennsylvania, who is retiring, said Trump's refusal to accept the results of the election had “very badly damaged his reputation," eclipsing his accomplishments in office.“Instead,” Toomey said, "he’ll be remembered throughout history as the president who resorted to nonlegal steps to try to hold on to power.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-looks-to-reassert-himself-after-impeachment-acquittal-as-republicans-gear-up-for-2022-midterm-elections-101613368395433.html
15-02-2021||World||UK minister for COP26 in India to advance partnership on climate action||The United Kingdom’s minister responsible for the United Nations Climate Change Conference 2021 or COP26, Alok Sharma, arrived in India on Monday for talks with interlocutors and captains of industry on strengthening the bilateral partnership on climate change. Sharma, who is a Cabinet minister and holds the post of president of COP26, is on his first visit to Asia after assuming the position. During the two-day visit, he will meet senior ministers, business leaders and civil society to discuss climate issues and to prepare for the COP26 summit in November. Sharma’s visit is expected to focus on India’s progress in climate action and clean energy transition. In recent years, India has played a key role in setting up the Coalition for Disaster Resilient Infrastructure (CDRI), which is co-chaired by the UK, and the International Solar Alliance (ISA). India’s expertise is “expected to be of great value to global discussions on a clean energy transition as part of COP preparations”, the British high commission said in a statement. Also Read | UK ‘thoroughly’ supports Biden over call for China to release Covid-19 dataDuring his meetings with business leaders, Sharma will highlight opportunities in the low carbon economy, existing commitments to achieve net-zero emissions and encourage influential businesses to promote the growing movement of corporate climate action throughout their sector and supply chain. Sharma will meet experts and young thinkers, to discuss challenges and solutions to climate change. “After a year of virtual meetings, the in-person visit signals a step-change in momentum to COP26 preparations, and reinforces Mr Sharma’s ambition to run an inclusive negotiating process that incorporates the views of all countries,” the statement said. Sharma MP said: “When it comes to climate action, India is a key partner and a global leader. Together we can make change happen – delivering real progress on reducing emissions and building global commitments. The UK and India are already a joint force for good against climate change, and we look forward to strengthening this partnership in the run up to COP26 and beyond.” British high commissioner Alex Ellis said Sharma’s visit is part of efforts to make COP26 a success and it will develop the bilateral climate partnership on clean and resilient development. “Hearing from the Indian government firsthand, as well as civil society and business, will be essential in informing the approach of the UK presidency as we work towards a comprehensive, ambitious and balanced outcome at COP26,” he added. Sharma is the third UK minister to visit India since December; he was preceded by foreign secretary Dominic Raab and trade secretary Liz Truss. The visits also paved the way for Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s visit later this year, during which climate cooperation will be a focus. As host of COP26, the UK has set a legally binding target to cut emissions to net-zero by 2050. Between 1990 and 2018, the UK nearly halved emissions while growing its economy by 75%, and it will completely cut coal-use in the power sector by 2025. The UK has also committed to double its international financing to £11.6 billion over the next five years, to help developing countries to take action on climate change. The UK is looking to its presidency of COP26 in 2021 and India’s presidency of G20 in 2023 to act as key platforms for implementing the Paris Agreement. The UK is also investing in India’s renewable and clean transport sectors, including through the joint Green Growth Equity Fund and multilateral funds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-minister-for-cop26-in-india-to-advance-partnership-on-climate-action-101613367722245.html
15-02-2021||World||Coronavirus conspiracy shows vast reach of Chinese disinformation||It took just three months for the rumor that Covid-19 was engineered as a bioweapon to spread from the fringes of the Chinese internet and take root in millions of people’s minds.By March 2020, belief that the virus had been human-made and possibly weaponized was widespread, multiple surveys indicated. The Pew Research Center found, for example, that one in three Americans believed the new coronavirus had been created in a lab; one in four thought it had been engineered intentionally.This chaos was, at least in part, manufactured.Powerful forces, from Beijing and Washington to Moscow and Tehran, have battled to control the narrative about where the virus came from. Leading officials and allied media in all four countries functioned as super-spreaders of disinformation, using their stature to sow doubt and amplify politically expedient conspiracies already in circulation, a nine-month Associated Press investigation of state-sponsored disinformation conducted in collaboration with the Atlantic Council’s Digital Forensic Research Lab found. The analysis was based on a review of millions of social media postings and articles on Twitter, Facebook, VK, Weibo, WeChat, YouTube, Telegram, and other platforms.As the pandemic swept the world, it was China – not Russia – that took the lead in spreading foreign disinformation about Covid-19’s origins.Beijing was reacting to weeks of fiery rhetoric from leading US Republicans, including then-President Donald Trump, who sought to rebrand Covid-19 as “the China virus.”China’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs says Beijing has worked to promote friendship and serve facts, while defending itself against hostile forces seeking to politicize the pandemic.“All parties should firmly say ‘no’ to the dissemination of disinformation,” the ministry said in a statement to AP, but added, “In the face of trumped-up charges, it is justified and proper to bust lies and clarify rumors by setting out the facts.”The day after the World Health Organization designated the Covid-19 outbreak a pandemic, Zhao Lijian, a spokesman for China’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs, shot off a series of late-night tweets that launched what may be the party’s first truly global digital experiment with overt disinformation.Chinese diplomats have only recently mobilized on Western social media platforms, more than tripling their Twitter accounts and more than doubling their Facebook accounts since late 2019. Both platforms are banned in China.“When did patient zero begin in US?” Zhao tweeted on March 12. “How many people are infected? What are the names of the hospitals? It might be US army who brought the epidemic to Wuhan. Be transparent! Make public your data! US owe (sic) us an explanation!”What happened next showcases the power of China’s global messaging machine.On Twitter alone, Zhao’s aggressive spray of 11 tweets on March 12 and 13 was cited over 99,000 times over the next six weeks, in at least 54 languages, according to analysis conducted by DFRLab. The accounts that referenced him had nearly 275 million followers on Twitter – a number that almost certainly includes duplicate followers and does not distinguish fake accounts.Influential conservatives on Twitter, including Donald Trump Jr., hammered Zhao, propelling his tweets to their largest audiences.China’s Global Times and at least 30 Chinese diplomatic accounts, from France to Panama, rushed in to support Zhao. Venezuela’s foreign minister and RT’s correspondent in Caracas, as well as Saudi accounts close to the kingdom’s royal family also significantly extended Zhao’s reach, helping launch his ideas into Spanish and Arabic.His accusations got uncritical treatment in Russian and Iranian state media and shot back through QAnon discussion boards. But his biggest audience, by far, lay within China itself -- despite the fact that Twitter is banned there. Popular hashtags about his tweetstorm were viewed 314 million times on the Chinese social media platform Weibo, which does not distinguish unique views.Late on the night of March 13, Zhao posted a message of gratitude on his personal Weibo: “Thank you for your support to me, let us work hard for the motherland 💪!”China leaned on Russian disinformation strategy and infrastructure, turning to an established network of Kremlin proxies to seed and spread messaging. In January, Russian state media were the first to legitimise the theory that the US engineered the virus as a weapon. Russian politicians soon joined the chorus.“One was amplifying the other… How much it was command controlled, how much it was opportunistic, it was hard to tell,” said Janis Sarts, director of the NATO Strategic Communications Centre of Excellence, based in Riga, Latvia.Iran also jumped in. The same day Zhao tweeted that the virus might have come from the US Army, Iran’s Supreme Leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei announced Covid-19 could be the result of a biological attack. He would later cite that conspiracy to justify refusing Covid-19 aid from the USTen days after Zhao’s first conspiratorial tweets, China’s global state media apparatus kicked in.“Did the US government intentionally conceal the reality of Covid-19 with the flu?” asked a suggestive op-ed in Mandarin published by China Radio International on March 22. “Why was the US Army Medical Research Institute of Infectious Diseases at Ft. Detrick in Maryland, the largest biochemical testing base, shut down in July 2019?”Within days, versions of the piece appeared more than 350 times in Chinese state outlets, mostly in Mandarin, but also around the world in English, French, Italian, Portuguese, Spanish and Arabic, AP found.China’s Embassy in France promoted the story on Twitter and Facebook. It appeared on YouTube, Weibo, WeChat and a host of Chinese video platforms, including Haokan, Xigua, Baijiahao, Bilibili, iQIYI, Kuaishou and Youku. A seven-second version set to driving music appeared on Douyin, the Chinese version of TikTok.“Clearly pushing these kinds of conspiracy theories, disinformation, does not usually result in any negative consequences for them,” said Mareike Ohlberg, a senior fellow in the Asia Program of the German Marshall Fund.In April, Russia and Iran largely dropped the bioweapon conspiracy in their overt messaging.China, however, has carried on.In January, as a team from the World Health Organization poured through records in China to try to pinpoint the origins of the virus, MOFA spokeswoman Hua Chunying urged the US to “open the biological lab at Fort Detrick, give more transparency to issues like its 200-plus overseas bio-labs, invite WHO experts to conduct origin-tracing in the United States.”Her remarks went viral in China.China’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs told AP it resolutely opposes spreading conspiracy theories. “We have not done it before and will not do it in the future,” the ministry said in a statement. “False information is the common enemy of mankind, and China has always opposed the creation and spread of false information.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/coronavirus-conspiracy-shows-vast-reach-of-chinese-disinformation-101613367433399.html
15-02-2021||World||As a private citizen impeachment isn't the final word on Capitol riot for Donald Trump||Donald Trump's acquittal at his second impeachment trial may not be the final word on whether he’s to blame for the deadly Capitol riot. The next step for the former president could be the courts.Now a private citizen, Trump is stripped of his protection from legal liability that the presidency gave him. That change in status is something that even Republicans who voted on Saturday to acquit of inciting the Jan. 6 attack are stressing as they urge Americans to move on from impeachment.“President Trump is still liable for everything he did while he was in office, as an ordinary citizen, unless the statute of limitations has run,” Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell of Kentucky said after that vote. He insisted that the courts were a more appropriate venue to hold Trump accountable than a Senate trial.“He didn’t get away with anything yet,” McConnell said. “Yet.”The insurrection at the Capitol, in which five people died, is just one of the legal cases shadowing Trump in the months after he was voted out of office. He also faces legal exposure in Georgia over an alleged pressure campaign on state election officials, and in Manhattan over hush-money payments and business deals.But Trump's culpability under the law for inciting the riot is by no means clear-cut. The standard is high under court decisions reaching back 50 years. Trump could also be sued by victims, though he has some constitutional protections, including if he acted while carrying out the duties of president. Those cases would come down to his intent.Legal scholars say a proper criminal investigation takes time, and there are at least five years on the statute of limitations to bring a federal case. New evidence is emerging every day.“They're way too early in their investigation to know,” said Laurie Levenson, a law professor at Loyola Law School and former federal prosecutor. “The have arrested 200 people, they're pursuing hundreds more, all of those people could be potential witnesses because some have said ‘Trump made me do it’."What's not known, she said, is what Trump was doing during the time of the riot, and that could be the key. Impeachment didn't produce many answers. But federal investigators in a criminal inquiry have much more power to compel evidence through grand jury subpoenas.“It’s not an easy case, but that’s only because what we know now, and that can change,” Levenson said.The legal issue is whether Trump or any of the speakers at the rally near the White House that preceded the assault on the Capitol incited violence and whether they knew their words would have that effect. That’s the standard the Supreme Court laid out in its 1969 decision in Brandenburg v. Ohio, which overturned the conviction of a Ku Klux Klan leader.Trump urged the crowd on Jan. 6 to march on the Capitol, where Congress was meeting to affirm Joe Biden's presidential election, Trump even promised to go with his supporters, though he didn’t in the end. “You’ll never take our country back with weakness,” Trump said.He also had spent weeks spinning up supporters over his increasingly combative language and false election claims urging them to “stop the steal.”Trump's impeachment lawyers said he didn't do anything illegal. Trump, in a statement after the acquittal, did not admit to any wrongdoing.Federal prosecutors have said they are looking at all angles of the assault on the Capitol and whether the violence had been incited. The attorney general for the District of Columbia, Karl Racine, has said that district prosecutors are considering whether to charge Trump under local law that criminalizes statements that motivate people to violence.“Let it be known that the office of attorney general has a potential charge that it may utilize,” Racine told MSNBC last month. The charge would be a misdemeanor with a maximum sentence of six months in jail.Trump's top White House lawyer repeatedly warned Trump on Jan. 6 that he could be held liable. That message was delivered in part to prompt Trump to condemn the violence that was carried out in his name and acknowledge that he would leave office Jan. 20, when Biden was inaugurated. He did depart the White House that day.Since then, many of those charged in the riots say they were acting directly on Trump's orders. Some offered to testify. A phone call between Trump and House Republican leader Kevin McCarthy emerged during the impeachment trial in which McCarthy, as rioters stormed the Capitol, begged Trump to call off the mob. Trump replied: “Well, Kevin, I guess these people are more upset about the election than you are.”The McCarthy call is significant because it could point to Trump’s intent, state of mind and knowledge of the rioters' actions.Court cases that try to prove incitement often bump up against the First Amendment. In recent years, federal judges have taken a hard line against the anti-riot law. The federal appeals court in Virginia narrowed the Anti-Riot Act, with a maximum prison term of five years, because it swept up constitutionally protected speech. The court found invalid parts of the law that encompassed speech tending to “encourage” or “promote” a riot, as well as speech “urging” others to riot or involving mere advocacy of violence.The same court upheld the convictions of two members of a white supremacist group who admitted they punched and kicked counter-demonstrators during the 2017 “Unite the Right” rally in Charlottesville, Virginia.It's possible federal prosecutors will decide not to bring charges, and if Trump were indicted in one of the many other separate investigations, federal prosecutors could decide justice would be done elsewhere.Atlanta prosecutors have recently opened a criminal investigation into Trump’s attempts to overturn his election loss in Georgia, including a Jan. 2 phone call in which he urged that state's secretary of state, Brad Raffensperger, to “find” enough votes to reverse Biden’s narrow victory.And Manhattan District Attorney Cyrus R. Vance Jr., is in the midst of an 18-month criminal grand jury investigation focusing in part on hush-money payments paid to women on Trump’s behalf, and whether Trump or his businesses manipulated the value of assets — inflating them in some cases and minimizing them in others — to gain favorable loan terms and tax benefits.GOP Sen. Thom Tillis of North Carolina, who voted to acquit along with McConnell and 41 other Republicans, argued that because Trump is no longer in office, impeachment is not the right way to hold him to account.“The ultimate accountability is through our criminal justice system where political passions are checked and due process is constitutionally mandated. No president is above the law or immune from criminal prosecution, and that includes former President Trump.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/as-a-private-citizen-impeachment-isn-t-the-final-word-on-capitol-riot-for-donald-trump-101613363564105.html
15-02-2021||World||Chinese youth voice their anger at govt as inflation, inequality soars: Report||Despite China's booming economy, youngsters have taken to social media platforms like Bilibili to voice despair over skyrocketing house prices, widening inequality and rising prices of everyday goods in the country.China was the only major economy to post positive growth last year, following a quick from the COVID-19 pandemic. However, this figure fails to tell what political analysts have described as a 'serious divergence' between the booming economy and the personal prospects of ordinary people in China, writes Cissy Zhou for South China Morning Post (SCMP)As China has few outlets to express opinions, platforms like Bilibili and Weibo have become important gathering places for distressed young Chinese.According to E-House Real Estate Research Institute, China's housing price-to-income reached a 20-year high of 9.2 last year, which means that the average house price is over nine times the average income per household. This is happening despite repeated assurances from authorities that they would stabilise a price boom that started in 2008.On the other hand, food prices had risen 1.2 per cent last year, with the cost of fresh meat increasing 7.1 per cent and the price of pork up 49.7 per cent, according to the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS).Vegetable prices also rose dramatically in January, with green peppers, wax gourd and cabbage increasing by more than 30 per cent, informed the Ministry of Agriculture.Meanwhile, public anger intensified on social media when central bank vice-governor Chen Yulu said that inflation is likely to see a "moderate growth" this year, wrote Zhou for SCMP."Moderate growth? So we are the boiled frogs, and you just keep heating!" said one person on Weibo."How can you glorify inflation in such a way? Moderate growth means doubling the prices!" said another Weibo user.The optimism about China's economy on social media was mostly 'Communist Party propaganda, with many other topics out of bounds due to the nation's vast online censorship system, opined Wu Qiang, an independent scholar based in Beijing."The nationalism on Chinese media is a nihilistic statism, which is to conceal inequality through empty slogans without giving real equality and political rights to the people. This is reflected in the suffering people feel in their lives," he said.He further commented that China's strong growth under state capitalism was a 'paradox' for many young people who lacked comprehensive labour rights and many work from 9 am to 9 pm, six days a week.China's private consumption accounted for about 39 per cent of GDP, which was about 30 percentage points lower than the US and Europe, as per data provided by CEIC.According to SCMP, China's relatively low household incomes and small share of employment in the services sector also hint at the divergence between the country's booming economy and the life satisfaction of the average worker."This means although China produces a large number of goods and services every year, the share actually consumed by its own residents is much lower than in other countries," said professor Xi, from Fudan University.Xi further said that his research showed the services industry made up a particularly low share of China's GDP - more than 10 percentage points lower than developing countries like India and Brazil.Though the communist nation had declared that it had officially ended poverty at the end of last year, a sense of relative poverty is becoming severe, especially between cities and rural areas.Meanwhile, Zhou reported that research published by Hao Qi at the School of Economics at Renmin University in November last year showed that the labour share of China's national income had declined from 51.4 per cent in 1995 to 43.7 per cent in 2008.Xi informed that these figures highlight that investment returns are being concentrated in the hands of a few, and most workers are getting a lower share of GDP growth than those in developed countries."This brings us back to an old question in economics and political science: what is the ultimate purpose of our economic development?" he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinese-youth-voice-their-anger-at-govt-as-inflation-inequality-soars-report-101613362186112.html
15-02-2021||World||Israel to allow 2,000 air travelers to enter every day||Israel's coronavirus cabinet has allowed up to 2,000 foreign air travellers to enter the country every day, the prime minister's office and the health ministry said Sunday."The ministerial cabinet has endorsed the transport minister's plan for inbound and outgoing flights ... Up to 2,000 people will be able to fly into Israel every day," a statement read.The defense ministry has been tasked with contracting hotels where arrivals will be quarantined.Israel largely closed Ben Gurion Airport, the Jewish state's main gateway, on January 25 in an effort to prevent mutant coronavirus strains from entering.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/israel-to-allow-2-000-air-travelers-to-enter-every-day-101613357357331.html
15-02-2021||World||Mexico gets over 8 lakh AstraZeneca's Covid-19 doses from India||Mexico received a shipment of 870,000 doses of AstraZeneca's Covid-19 vaccine from India on Sunday, the government said, as the country prepares to prioritize older adults in the next phase of its vaccination campaign.Mexico is also expecting shipments of Pfizer's vaccine to resume, with 494,000 doses due to arrive on Tuesday, Foreign Minister Marcelo Ebrard told a news conference.Sunday's shipment amounts to about 42% of the two million doses of the AstraZeneca and Oxford University vaccine the country plans to import from India, in addition to packaging it locally, the government said.Mexico and Argentina have an agreement with AstraZeneca to produce the vaccine for eventual distribution of 250 million doses in Latin America, with financial support from the foundation of Mexican billionaire Carlos Slim.Mexico, which has one of the world's highest coronavirus death tolls, started vaccinating healthcare workers in December but struggled to hit its targets amid global shortages and delays of Pfizer's vaccine.Mexico will next vaccinate adults over the age of 60, a group representing 12% of Mexico's 126 million people, between February and April."The vaccines are already available.... and they will not stop arriving so that the national vaccination plan does not stop," President Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador said at the news conference in the southwestern state of Oaxaca.Latin America's no. 2 economy has so far received just 1,636,350 vaccine doses, according to government data, but has agreements for millions more, including for China's CanSino and the Russian Sputnik V. Mexico received the active ingredient for 2 million doses of the CanSino vaccine on Thursday.Additionally, Mexico has secured enough vaccines to cover 20% of its population through the global COVAX facility, led by the GAVI vaccines alliance and the World Health Organization, though shipments have yet to begin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/mexico-gets-over-8-lakh-astrazeneca-s-covid-19-doses-from-india-101613354442453.html
15-02-2021||World||Boris Johnson faces calls to ease curbs as Covid-19 vaccination milestone hit||The UK recorded 15 million vaccinations against the coronavirus, a milestone that is set to increase pressure on Prime Minister Boris Johnson to begin reopening the economy.Johnson praised what he called an “extraordinary feat” and said that England had already met a target set earlier this year of immunizing the top four priority groups, including the over 70s, by Feb. 15. Wales also confirmed reaching the threshold. More than 25% of the adult population has now received at least one shot.The UK has delivered one of the most successful immunisation programs in the world, administering hundreds of thousands of vaccines each day. That’s a welcome political boost for Johnson, whose government has been slammed for its handling of the pandemic, which has claimed over 117,000 lives.But it sets the stage for a battle with Conservative members of Parliament who want the prime minister to move faster to ease a third national lockdown that has closed schools and shuttered businesses still reeling from the deepest economic slump in more than 300 years.In a letter to Johnson, a group of 63 MPs said there was “no justification” for not lifting all Covid restrictions by the end of April when the government hopes to have vaccinated everyone over the age of 50.Meanwhile for the travel industry, things are set to get tougher. Starting Monday, passengers arriving in the U.K. from coronavirus hot spots will be required to quarantine in government-managed hotel rooms for 10 days. The new rules apply to anyone who has visited any of 33 countries on a travel ban list in the previous 10 days.Priority GroupsIn a video message Sunday, Johnson hailed a “significant milestone” in the battle to bring the disease under control, with the four priority groups estimated to account for about 88% of deaths from Covid-19.The government plans to vaccinate another 17 million people by the end of April, covering 99% of those most at risk of dying from Covid-19, with all adults offered a first dose by the autumn.But while infection rates -- among the highest in Europe -- are coming down, the prime minister has stressed the need for caution. Johnson wants schools to reopen on March 8. The government will then consider relaxing outdoor recreation, followed by non-essential retail and then hospitality, according to a government official.The UK reported 10,972 new cases on Sunday, and total infections now top 4 million. That’s down from early January, when the U.K. posted a seven-day average of almost 60,000 cases a day. There were 258 new deaths.The government plans to outline a road map for exiting the current restrictions on Feb. 22.“We do need to be very careful in how we proceed,” Foreign Secretrary Dominic Raab said on Sky. “We have made good progress. We don’t want to see that unravel because we go too far.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/boris-johnson-faces-calls-to-ease-curbs-as-covid-19-vaccination-milestone-hit-101613350019430.html
15-02-2021||World||Doctors against opioid use face threats from patients across US||One patient threatened to shoot Dr. Terry Hunt if physical therapy didn't relieve his pain as effectively as opioids did. Another harassed his staff, then roamed a hospital searching for Hunt after being told he would be weaned off painkillers he had used inappropriately.Hunt was unharmed, but shaken enough to ask the central Illinois hospital system where he worked to dismiss both patients.So when he heard about Tuesday's attack at a medical clinic in Buffalo, Minnesota, that left one person dead and four injured, “the first thing I assumed is that it was something to do with pain medication,” said Hunt, who now works for the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota, and a Mayo Clinic Health System facility in Red Wing, Minnesota. “It makes us ask about our own workplace: How secure are we?”Authorities said Gregory Paul Ulrich, 67, was angry about his medical treatment before he shot five workers and detonated three apparent pipe bombs at an Allina Health clinic. A police report says he had threatened a similar mass shooting in 2018, allegedly as revenge against people who he said “tortured” him with back surgeries and prescribed medication.A former roommate said Ulrich became upset when a doctor stopped prescribing painkillers, and that Ulrich also used other drugs and had untreated mental health issues. Law enforcement and the health system have not addressed the specifics of Ulrich’s treatment or medications.Doctors who treat pain say threats of violence escalated markedly in recent years as mounting legal and regulatory pressure stemming from the deadly opioid epidemic led many to prescribe alternatives and taper their patients off addictive painkillers.While some patients benefit from careful use of opioids, and doctors don't want to stigmatize them, many would be better off treating pain with other therapies, experts say. But many become addicted to the drugs that are often intended for short-term use following surgeries.“It hijacks their brain,” said Dr. Carrie DeLone, regional medical director at Penn State Health Community Medical Group. “They don't see themselves as having a problem.”Pain specialist Dr. Andrew Kolodny, a professor at Brandeis University and a founder of Physicians for Responsible Opioid Prescribing, said patients are convinced that opioids are treating their underlying problem because if they try to go without a dose or as their previous dose wears off, “they’re feeling horrible, agonizing pain,” when it can be the withdrawal that is causing pain hypersensitivity.“It’s much easier to give the patient what they want. You write the prescription ... they walk out the door happy and there are no problems. To try and help a patient taper down ... is much harder,” Kolodny said.And when a doctor says no, things can turn ugly.“We’ve had patients waiting for doctors in parking lots to harass them. We’ve had them say ‘We’re going to shoot you’ or ‘We’re going to burn your house down,’” DeLone said.Almost half of pain specialists surveyed during a violence education session at a 2019 American Academy of Pain Medicine meeting cited opioid management as the reason they had been threatened, said Dr. W. Michael Hooten, president-elect of the organization.In response to threats, doctors have dismissed patients. But they have also installed alarm systems and panic buttons and set up exam rooms so doctors are closest to the door. Some even advocate carrying weapons, said Hooten, noting that smaller clinics are at greatest risk because they might not be able to afford security.After his 2018 threat, police took Ulrich for a mental health evaluation, and Allina took legal action to bar him from the company’s property. A restraining order prohibited Ulrich from contact with the doctor or going into the clinic and nearby Allina-run Buffalo Hospital, where he once frightened a nurse so much that a colleague hit a panic button for help.Police said they had had no recent interactions with Ulrich that would have raised alarms before the attack in Buffalo, a small city about 40 miles (65 kilometers) northwest of Minneapolis.St. Joseph County, Indiana, Prosecutor Ken Cotter said he didn't know that such threats were common until 2017, when a man shot and killed a doctor who refused to prescribe opioids to his wife. Michael Jarvis ambushed Dr. Todd Graham in a parking lot hours after the appointment, said Cotter, adding there was evidence that Jarvis also was using opioids. Jarvis took his own life soon after.Before that, “I do not recall ever reading a threat report” from a doctor, said Cotter, who said he received calls from about 20 doctors after the shooting telling him how common they were. “They took (threats) as a cost of doing business.”Cotter said about a dozen meetings were held with doctors, law enforcement officials and others to discuss how to keep doctors safe, including deescalating tense situations, but also alternatives to opioids, disposal of old medications, and tackling the addiction problems that plague their communities.“When you've got doctors calling to say we have to do something, this is... literally our whole community's crusade,” Cotter said.Kolodny, from Brandeis, said he has been compared to Hitler, threatened on Twitter, and a bag of nails was mailed to his home. Last month, protesters carried signs near his office demanding that he be fired because of his work advocating for less opioid use and helping states sue opioid manufacturers.The threats have “gotten really scary,” he said. “It’s just gotten really heated up.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/doctors-against-opioid-use-face-threats-from-patients-across-us-101613349715484.html
15-02-2021||World||In one US city, coronavirus vaccines for everyone 18 and over||Most countries are still only vaccinating the elderly and healthcare workers, but one US town hit hard by the coronavirus is already offering doses to everyone age 18 and over.Central Falls -- with a population of 20,000 people in Rhode Island -- is home to a large Hispanic population, many of whom are undocumented migrants.The city is one of the most densely populated places in the United States and is one of the areas in Rhode Island worst affected by the pandemic.The small East Coast state's government recommends that vaccines are only given to high-risk groups such as frontline workers and people over age 75.But Central Falls is going its own way, opening up vaccinations to all adults."Everybody that lives or works here is a priority," Mayor Maria Rivera told AFP during a mass vaccination drive on Saturday.The pandemic spread like wildfire through Central Falls' close-knit community, where it is common for multiple families to live under the same roof.The city is more than 66 percent Latino and 13 percent Black.Central Falls has recorded the highest rate of positive cases and hospitalizations in Rhode Island.More than 3,500 cases have been reported, with 21 deaths and 190 hospitalizations as of January.The health toll has also been compounded by an economic one."At the beginning of Covid... there were so many residents that were losing their jobs, and they didn't have money and they couldn't apply for benefits," recalls Rivera.When vaccines became available in December, the city offered injections to over-75s, then over-65s, before lowering the age threshold to 50 and then slashing it to 18 in recent weeks.- 'Right thing to do -"If we don't fix the problem, where the problem is, we are just going to continue spreading this disease," said Rivera.The city was preparing to administer around 700 doses at Central Falls High School on Saturday.Mayor Rivera's team has gone door-to-door making sure residents have all the information they need, including in Spanish and Cape Verdean Portuguese."This was the first vaccination for the general public, probably the first in the nation," said Eugenio Fernandez Jr, founder of Asthenis, a pharmacy that works with low-income neighborhoods.When Suzanne Wallace, a nurse practitioner, learned about Central Fall's troubles, she knew she had to come volunteer to administer shots."It felt like it's the right thing to do," she told AFP.Dozens of locals sat on chairs more than six feet apart inside the school gymnasium, waiting to be observed after receiving their shot.Thirty-year-old Angelica Romero was among residents to get injected."I was really scared to come, to be honest with you," said Romero, whose father had just spent three months in hospital with coronavirus. Her mother had signed her up for the shot."We're really eager to have a really safe environment as much as we could for him," she told AFP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/in-one-us-city-coronavirus-vaccines-for-everyone-18-and-over-101613349597715.html
15-02-2021||World||Support grows for Capitol riot inquiry after Donald Trump acquittal||After what one called a “heartbreaking” verdict, House prosecutors who argued for Donald Trump's conviction of inciting the US Capitol riot said Sunday they had proved their case and railed against the Senate’s Republican leader and most of his colleagues for “trying to have it both ways” in acquitting the former president.A day after Trump won his second Senate impeachment trial in two years, bipartisan support appeared to be growing for an independent Sept. 11-style commission to make sure that such a horrific assault could never happen again.The end of the quick trial hardly put to rest the debate about Trump's culpability for the Jan. 6 insurrection as the political, legal and emotional fallout unfolded.More investigations into the riot were already planned, with Senate hearings scheduled later this month in the Senate Rules Committee. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., also has asked retired Army Lt. Gen. Russel Honoré to lead an immediate review of the Capitol’s security process.Lawmakers from both parties signaled on Sunday that even more inquiries were likely.“There should be a complete investigation about what happened," said Louisiana Sen. Bill Cassidy, one of seven Republicans who voted to convict Trump. "What was known, who knew it and when they knew, all that, because that builds the basis so this never happens again.”Cassidy said he was “attempting to hold President Trump accountable,” and added that as Americans hear all the facts, “more folks will move to where I was." He was censured by his state’s party after the vote, which was 57-43 to convict but 10 votes short of the two-thirds required.A close Trump ally, GOP Sen. Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, said he looked forward to campaigning with Trump in the 2022 election, when Republicans hope to regain the congressional majority. But Graham acknowledged that Trump had some culpability for the siege at the Capitol that killed five people, including a police officer, and disrupted lawmakers' certification of Democrat Joe Biden's White House victory.“His behavior after the election was over the top,” Graham said. “We need a 9/11 commission to find out what happened and make sure it never happens again.”The Senate acquitted Trump of a charge of “incitement of insurrection” after House prosecutors laid out a case that he was an “inciter in chief” who unleashed a mob by stoking a monthslong campaign of spreading debunked conspiracy theories and false violent rhetoric that the 2020 election was stolen from him.Trump’s lawyers countered that Trump’s words were not intended to incite the violence and that impeachment was nothing but a “witch hunt” designed to prevent him from serving in office again.The conviction tally was the most bipartisan in American history but left Trump to declare victory and signal a political revival while a bitterly divided GOP bickered over its direction and his place in the party.The Republicans who joined Cassidy in voting to convict were Sens. Richard Burr of North Carolina, Susan Collins of Maine, Lisa Murkowski of Alaska, Mitt Romney of Utah, Ben Sasse of Nebraska and Pat Toomey of Pennsylvania.“It’s frustrating, but the founders knew what they were doing and so we live with the system that we have,” Delegate Stacey Plaskett, a House prosecutor who represents the Virgin Islands, said of the verdict, describing it as “heartbreaking.” She added: “But, listen, we didn’t need more witnesses. We needed more senators with spines.”On Sunday, several House impeachment managers sharply criticized McConnell, who told Republican senators shortly before the vote that he would acquit Trump. In a blistering speech after the vote, McConnell said the president was “practically and morally responsible for provoking the events of that day" but that the Senate's hands were tied to do anything about it because Trump was out of office. But the Senate, in an earlier vote, had deemed the trial constitutional.“It was powerful to hear the 57 guilties and then it was puzzling to hear and see Mitch McConnell stand and say not guilty and then minutes later stand again and say he was guilty of everything,” said Rep. Madeleine Dean, D-Pa. “History will remember that statement of speaking out of two sides of his mouth,” she said.Dean backed the idea of an impartial investigative commission "not guided by politics but filled with people who would stand up to the courage of their conviction.”An independent 9/11 style commission, which probably would require legislation to create, would elevate the investigation a step higher, offering a definitive government-backed accounting of events. Pelosi has expressed support for such a commission while stressing that the members who sit on it would be key. Still, such a panel would pose risks of sharpening partisan divisions or overshadowing Biden's legislative agenda.“There’s still more evidence that the American people need and deserve to hear and a 9/11 commission is a way to make sure that we secure the Capitol going forward,” said Sen. Chris Coons, D-Del., and a Biden ally. “And that we lay bare the record of just how responsible and how abjectly violating of his constitutional oath President Trump really was.”The lead House impeachment manager, Rep. Jamie Raskin, D-Md., called the trial a “dramatic success in historical terms” by winning unprecedented support from GOP senators. He said the verdict didn't match the reality of the strength of evidence.“We successfully prosecuted him and convicted him in the court of public opinion and the court of history,” he said. Pointing to McConnell and other Republican senators critical of Trump but voting to acquit, Raskin said, “They’re trying to have it both ways.”Raskin and Plaskett defended the House team’s last-minute reversal not to call a witness, Rep. Jaime Herrera Beutler, R-Wash. They acknowledged they were aware they might lose some GOP votes for conviction if they extended the trial much longer.Beutler's statement late Friday that Trump rebuffed a plea from House Republican leader Kevin McCarthy to call off the rioters was ultimately entered into the trial record.“I think what we did was, we got what we wanted, which was her statement, which was what she said, and had it put into the record,” Plaskett said.Cassidy and Dean spoke on ABC's “This Week,” Graham appeared on “Fox News Sunday,” Raskin was on NBC's “Meet the Press,” and Plaskett appeared on CNN's “State of the Union.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/support-grows-for-capitol-riot-inquiry-after-donald-trump-acquittal-101613349258157.html
15-02-2021||World||Joe Biden to speak at virtual meeting of world’s major economies||President Joe Biden will speak at a virtual meeting of the world’s major economies on Friday to discuss the coronavirus pandemic and global vaccination distribution, according to the White House.Biden is expected to speak about the need for a global response to the pandemic and to recommit the US. to multilateral engagement, a stark contrast from President Donald Trump, who developed an isolationist foreign policy that saw the U.S. withdraw from major global agreements and alliances. Since entering office, Biden has reversed many of Trump’s isolationist moves, including by rejoining the World Health Organization.During his appearance at the G-7 meeting Friday, Biden will emphasize the need for global coordination on vaccine production, distribution and supplies, as well as global efforts to prepare for and protect against future pandemics. And he'll speak about the need for industrialized nations to ensure their economic recovery “is inclusive and benefits all workers, including women and members of historically disadvantaged groups,” the White House said in a statement Sunday.The United States has also pledged to join the COVAX initiative, which is aimed at producing and distributing vaccines to developing countries.Biden will also take the opportunity to discuss the need to update global rules “to tackle economic challenges such as those posed by China,” the White House said. Biden has pushed for the U.S. and its allies to negotiate a new trade pact to counter China's influence in the region.The G-7 event marks Biden’s first major multilateral engagement as president, and a return to the diplomacy that characterized so much of his tenure as vice president.On the same day, Biden is set to participate in a “special edition” of the Munich Security Conference, a gathering of global leaders focused on defense. The television broadcast is taking the place of the previously scheduled conference, which was postponed due to the pandemic. As vice president, he attended the Munich Security Conference in 2009 and 2015.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-to-speak-at-virtual-meeting-of-world-s-major-economies-101613348633285.html
15-02-2021||World||Big freeze threatens Texas with blackouts as markets gyrate||The arctic freeze gripping the central US is raising the specter of power outages in Texas and ratcheting up pressure on energy prices already trading at unprecedented levels.In Texas, where temperatures in Dallas are forecast to be 3 degrees Fahrenheit Monday (minus 16 Celsius), the operator of the state’s power grid warned it may need to resort to rolling blackouts as surging demand for heat strains the electrical system. While outages may occur Sunday, the risk is higher on Monday and Tuesday, when officials expect power demand in Texas to reach a record high.“We could be in emergency operations as early as tonight,” said Dan Woodfin, a senior director for the Electric Reliability Council of Texas, which runs the grid. “We would expect to be in emergency operations tomorrow through at least Tuesday morning.”About 800 daily records for cold temperatures have been set in the past week as Arctic air pushes all the way to the Gulf of Mexico, sending gyrations through energy markets. Spot prices for electricity in Texas are expected to hit the grid’s cap of $9,000 per megawatt hour. Natural gas rose to a record $600 per million British thermal units in Oklahoma. And as much as half a million barrels a day of oil output in West Texas may be impacted by well shutdowns that began on Thursday because of the extreme cold.“It is a pretty brutal air mass,” said Bob Oravec, senior branch forecaster at the U.S. Weather Prediction Center. “The cold air is entrenched across the middle part of the country. High temperatures are amazingly cold, some 50 degrees below average.”Through early Sunday, the coldest spot in the US was 25 miles east of Ely, Minnesota, where readings fell to -50 degrees Fahrenheit. As of 7 a.m. New York time, 2,653 flights around the US through Monday had been canceled, the majority in Dallas and Houston, according to FlightAware, an airline tracking service.Temperatures fell so far below forecasts in parts of the central and western U.S. that physical gas prices soared from California to the Rockies, with one hub in Cheyenne, Wyoming, reaching as high as $350 per mmBtu, according to traders who asked not to be identified because the information isn’t public.Heating and power plant fuel traded for as much as $195 per mmBtu in Southern California. If day-ahead electricity prices are any indication and the weather forecasts are even partly accurate, the run-up in energy prices isn’t over.In Houston, there are long lines to refill household propane canisters. Itinerant, roadside firewood are largely out of supplies.Frozen TurbinesA mix of freezing temperatures and precipitation threatens to paralyze wind farms in Texas. That would be devastating for power plants with contracts to provide a certain amount of electricity at specific times if they need to instead buy it on the spot market to meet their obligations. At the moment, that power is exceedingly expensive.“When wind-turbine blades get covered with ice, they need to be shut down,” said Joshua Rhodes, a research associate at The University of Texas at Austin who focuses on energy.About half of Texas’s wind turbines were inoperable Sunday morning because of ice and cold. Yet those that are running are cranking out more power than forecast for this time of year, Woodfin, grid operator Ercot’s senior director, said during a briefing Sunday.Power plants that are only partially operating could be pinched by high prices, too. Projects that commit to provide 50 megawatts of energy in a given hour but only produce 20 megawatts may need to buy the difference at the market price, said Lee Taylor, chief executive officer of RESurety, a clean-energy analytics firm.Wholesale power for delivery Sunday traded at anywhere from $3,000 to $7,000 a megawatt-hour in some places, triple the records set in some places Saturday and a staggering 2,672% increase from Friday at Texas’s West hub. Average spot power prices traded around $1,500 per megawatt hour Sunday afternoon, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.“Spot prices are expected to hit $9,000 on both Monday and Tuesday,” said Brian Lavertu, a trader for Active Power Investments. “Power is going to be wild through Tuesday.”Traders said they’ve never seen electricity trade on Texas’s grid for thousands of dollars for such a sustained amount of time. They drew comparisons between this week’s price surges to the records set on the Midwest grid in 1998, and to the California energy crisis that sent power prices skyrocketing and blacked out hundreds of thousands of homes and businesses two decades ago.Among the other markets moving on the cold:Spot gas prices across the eastern US remained subdued amid milder temperatures, assessed at anywhere from $4 per to $12 per mmBtu on Friday, pricing data compiled by Bloomberg show.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/big-freeze-threatens-texas-with-blackouts-as-markets-gyrate-101613348300170.html
15-02-2021||World||Fired little tear gas on govt employees to test it, says Pak minister Rashid||Days after the Pakistan police fired tear gas on protesting government employees for salary hike, Interior Minister Sheikh Rashid Ahmed made light of the incident, stating that it was "necessary to test the tear gas as it had been unused for a long time".Addressing a ceremony in Rawalpindi, Ahmed said that the Islamabad police "fired a little tear gas", and it was necessary to test it since the tear gas canisters had been unused for a long time, Dawn reported."Only a little was tested, not a lot," he claimed.Rashid, who was part of the government committee, said that the "real problem" was not the tear gas shelling but the pay raise that "amounts to billions of rupees in this time of inflation [and is a burden on the] treasury", Dawn reported.The Pakistan police on February 10 fired tear gas at the government employees, who were protesting to demand an increase in their salaries and pensions.Later, people across social media erupted in anger against the Interior Minister, seeking an apology from Ahmed for his remark."In any other country, a statement like this would mean immediate firing of the minister and an apology from the government," said PML-N leader Mohammad Zubair."To the interior minister Sheikh Rasheed, people suffocating to death is a joke," tweeted filmmaker Haroon Riaz.According to a report by Samaa TV, at least 2,000 people had gathered and planned to march towards Parliament House when the police fired tear gas to stop them.Earlier, the federal ministers, including Rasheed, have said the government will fulfill demands of the protestors.However, the protesters have reiterated that the government will have to issue a notification confirming the increase in their salaries.Pakistan Peoples Party (PPP) chairperson Bilawal Bhutto-Zardari and Pakistan Muslim League (Nawaz) (PML-N) vice president Maryam Nawaz have backed the government employees protest.In a tweet, Maryam had demanded the government to stop the "merciless torture" of the government employees."Stop this merciless torture...Do not make the innocent government employees suffer from tear gas, shelling and baton-charging. They are not enemies but poor Pakistanis who are asking for their rights," she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/fired-little-tear-gas-on-govt-employees-to-test-it-says-pak-minister-rashid-101613346959154.html
15-02-2021||World||Pro-Navalny 'flashlight' protests light up Russian cities||Supporters of imprisoned Russian opposition leader Alexei Navalny came out to residential courtyards and shined their cellphone flashlights Sunday in a display of unity, despite efforts by Russian authorities to extinguish the illuminated protests.Navalny’s team sent photos of small groups with lit-up cellphones in cities from Siberia to the Moscow region. It was unclear how many people participated overall.No arrests were immediately reported. However, police detained nine people at a daytime demonstration in the city of Kazan calling for the release of political prisoners, according to OVD-Info, a human rights group that monitors political arrests.The group said security guards at Moscow State University recorded the names of people leaving a dormitory to take part in a flashlight rally there.When Navalny's first team urged people to come out to the cellphone protests, many responded with jokes and skepticism. After two weekends of nationwide demonstrations, the new protest format looked to some like a retreat.Yet Russian officials spent days trying to blacken the protests. Officials accused Navalny’s allies of acting on NATO’s instructions. Kremlin-backed TV channels warned that flashlight rallies were part of major uprisings around the world. State news agencies cited unnamed sources as saying a terrorist group was plotting attacks during unapproved mass protests.The suppression attempts represent a change of tactics for Russian authorities, who used ignore Navalny.Kremlin-controlled TV channels used to not report about protests called by Navalny. Russian President Vladimir Putin has never mentioned his most prominent critic by name. State news agencies referred to the anti-corruption investigator as “a blogger” in the rare stories when they did mentioning him.“Navalny went from a person whose name is not allowed to be mentioned to the main subject of discussion” on state TV, said Maria Pevchikh, head of investigations at Navalny’s Foundations for Fighting Corruption.Pevchikh credited Navalny’s latest expose for the sudden surge in attention. His foundation's two-hour video alleging that a lavish palace on Black Sea was built for Putin through corruption has been watched over 111 million times on YouTube since Jan. 19.The video went up two days after Navalny was arrested upon returning to Russia from Germany, where he spent five months recovering from a nerve-agent poisoning that he blames on the Kremlin. The Russian government denies involvement and claims it has no evidence that Navalny was poisoned.While the high-profile arrest and the subsequent expose were a double blow to authorities, political analyst and former Kremlin speech writer Abbas Gallyamov says that keeping Navalny and his protests off the airwaves to deprive him of additional publicity no longer makes sense.“The fact that this strategy has changed suggests that the pro-government television audience is somehow receiving information about Navalny’s activities through other channels, recognizes him, is interested in his work, and in this sense, keeping the silence doesn’t make any sense,” Gallyamov said.The weekend protests in scores of Russian cities last month over Navalny’s detention represented the largest outpouring of popular discontent in years and appeared to have rattled the Kremlin. Police reportedly arrested about 10,000 people, and many demonstrators were beaten, while state media sought to downplay the scale of the protests.TV channels aired footage of empty squares in cities where protests were announced and claimed that few people showed up. Some reports portrayed police as polite and restrained, claiming officers had helped people with disabilities cross busy streets, handed out face masks and offered demonstrators hot tea.Once the protests died down and Navalny ally Leonid Volkov announced a pause until the spring, Kremlin-backed media reported that grassroots flash mobs titled “Putin is our president” started sweeping the country. State news channel Rossiya 24 broadcast videos from different cities of people dancing to patriotic songs and waving Russian flags, describing them as a genuine expression of support for Putin.Several independent online outlets reported that instructions to record videos in support of Putin came from the Kremlin and the governing United Russia party and that people in some of the recordings were invited under false pretenses.The Russian president's spokesman, Dmitry Peskov, said the Kremlin had nothing to do with the pro-Putin videos.After Navalny's team posted its video involving the palace allegedly built for Putin, state channel Rossiya aired its own expose of Navalny. Anchor Dmitry Kiselev claimed in Germany, Navalny lived “in the luxury he so much despises.”The reporter filmed inside a house Navalny rented but failed to capture any high-end items in the two-story building, which featured several bedrooms and a small swimming pool.She pointed to “two sofas, a TV, fresh fruit on the table” in the living room and “a kitchen with a coffee machine,” and described a bedroom as “luxurious” even though it looked a a business hotel room.In recent days, official media coverage focused on the flashlights-in-courtyards protest, accusing Navalny ally Volkov of acting on instructions from his Western handlers.The political talk show “60 Minutes" devoted nearly a half-hour to the topic, calling the flashlight rally an idea from a handbook on revolutions. It aired footage of protesters shining flashlights during the 2014 Maidan protests in Ukraine, mass rallies in Belarus last summer and other uprisings.On Thursday, state news agencies Tass and RIA Novosti, citing anonymous sources, claimed that a terrorist group from Syria was training insurgents for possible terrorist attacks in Russian cities at “mass rallies.”“The Kremlin is awfully scared of the flashlight action,” because such a peaceful, light-hearted event would allow the opposition to build a rapport with new supporters who are not ready to be more visible, Volkov said in a YouTube video.He suggested the heavy-handed response to the announcement actually helped dispel skepticism about the courtyard demonstrations.“I saw many posts on social media (saying) ‘When Navalny’s headquarters announced the flashlight rally, I thought what nonsense… But when I saw the Kremlin’s reaction, I realized they were right to come up with it.’”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pronavalny-flashlight-protests-light-up-russian-cities-101613345194201.html
15-02-2021||World||Average new US coronavirus cases below 100K for 1st time in months||Average daily new coronavirus cases in the United States dipped below 100,000 in recent days for the first time in months, but experts cautioned Sunday that infections remain high and precautions to slow the pandemic must remain in place.The seven-day rolling average of new infections was well above 200,000 for much of December and went to roughly 250,000 in January, according to data kept by Johns Hopkins University, as the pandemic came roaring back after it had been tamed in some places over the summer.That average dropped below 100,000 on Friday for the first time since Nov. 4. It stayed below 100,000 on Saturday.“We are still at about 100,000 cases a day. We are still at around 1,500 to 3,500 deaths per day. The cases are more than two-and-a-half-fold times what we saw over the summer,” Dr. Rochelle Walensky, director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, said on NBC’s “Meet the Press.” “It’s encouraging to see these trends coming down, but they’re coming down from an extraordinarily high place.”On Saturday, the seven-day rolling average for deaths was around 2,500. That number peaked at more than 3,300 earlier in the winter, according to Johns Hopkins.The US saw a spike of more than 5,400 deaths reported Friday — nearly half from Ohio, where authorities said earlier in the week that they planned to add deaths to the state's tally over the course of a few days after discovering as many as 4,000 unreported Covid-19 fatalities.Walensky added that new variants, including one first detected in the United Kingdom that appears to be more transmissible and has already been recorded in more than 30 states, will likely lead to more cases and more deaths.“All of it is really wraps up into we can’t let our guard down,” she said. “We have to continue wearing masks. We have to continue with our current mitigation measures. And we have to continue getting vaccinated as soon as that vaccine is available to us.”The U.S. has recorded more than 27.5 million virus cases and more than 484,000 deaths, according to the Johns Hopkins data.With parents and political leaders eager to have children around the country back in school for in-person learning, it is important that people continue to observe precautions, Walensky said.“We need to all take responsibility to decrease that community spread, including mask wearing so that we can get our kids and our society back,” she said.The CDC released guidance on Friday outlining mitigation strategies necessary to reopen schools or to keep them open.Some teachers have expressed concern about returning to the classroom without having been vaccinated, but the guidelines do not say that's necessary. Dr. Anthony Fauci said on ABC’s “This Week" that it would be “optimal” if teachers were vaccinated but that other measures laid out in the 24-page document can lessen their risk.“Practically speaking, when you balance the benefit of getting the children back to school with the fact that the risks are being mitigated, if you follow the recommendations and these new guidelines from the CDC, hopefully, I think that will alleviate the concerns on both sides,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/average-new-us-coronavirus-cases-below-100k-for-1st-time-in-months-101613344985878.html
15-02-2021||World||After Trump acquittal, Republicans see 'battle for soul of party'||A day after the Senate acquitted Donald Trump in a historic second impeachment trial, America was weighing how long a shadow the former president will cast -- over his party, and over the country.The Senate on Saturday voted 57-43 to convict Trump of inciting the January 6 assault on the US Capitol.It was a stinging rebuke, with seven Republicans joining all Democrats in the most bipartisan impeachment vote ever, but it fell far short of the 67 votes needed for conviction.With Trump hinting afterward at a possible political future, even as other Republicans said it was time to move on, the stark divide facing the party was on full view.One frequent Trump critic, Republican Governor Larry Hogan of Maryland, on Sunday predicted a "real battle for the soul of the Republican Party.""This is not over," he told CNN, adding he would have voted to convict Trump.- 'Need to work with Trump' -Senator Bill Cassidy of Louisiana was one of the seven Republicans to vote to convict; he predicted Sunday that Trump's still-strong hold on Republicans would fade."I think his force wanes... I think our leadership will be different going forward," he told ABC's "This Week."Several Republicans, even while voting to acquit Trump, expressed dismay over his role on January 6 and in the weeks before, as he stoked anger with false claims the November election was stolen from him.But one of the former president's fiercest defenders, Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, insisted Sunday that Trump, with his fervent following, retains a huge political role as the party looks ahead to the 2022 midterm elections.He called Trump the "most vibrant member of the Republican Party," adding, "We need to work with President Trump -- we can't do it without him."Despite Trump's acquittal, Democrats insisted Sunday they had achieved a moral and political victory by securing some Republican votes in the Senate trial while permanently tarring Trump's name and clearing the way for President Joe Biden to quickly advance his agenda."We clearly won in the court of public opinion," Representative Don Beyer told CNN.- Party base -Trump has flirted with the idea of running for the White House again in 2024. A conviction Saturday would have likely barred him from holding federal office again.Merely hinting at a possible run will keep him in political conversations -- and allow him to continue raising large amounts of money.Yet a number of Republicans have distanced themselves from the former president, who after all lost the election to Biden by seven million votes while also seeing his party lose control of the Senate.Several Republicans are lining up to seek the presidential nomination in 2024, and they are eager to leave him in the party's past.One of them, Nikki Haley, a former governor who served Trump as ambassador to the United Nations, was blunt in an interview posted Friday by Politico, saying Trump was increasingly isolated and had "lost any sort of political viability."But Republicans who have openly opposed Trump have faced fierce blowbacks from the party's base, and many remain fearful of his tendency to exact payback from critics.Trump has been deprived, however, of a key weapon he used against political enemies -- Twitter. It is unclear whether he can generate the same levels of enthusiasm among Republicans as he did in the past.And Senate Republican leader Mitch McConnell -- who voted against conviction, saying a former president could not be impeached -- nonetheless identified another major challenge facing Trump.In a blistering attack Saturday, McConnell said "there's no question -- none -- that President Trump is practically and morally responsible for provoking the events" of January 6.He stressed that as a civilian Trump faces potential civil and criminal legal vulnerability on a range of issues, adding: "He didn't get away with anything yet."As the party's de facto leader now, McConnell seemed determined to quash any future role for Trump and try to guide Republicans back in a more traditional direction.Meantime, some members of both parties have called for creation of a bipartisan commission to examine the January 6 events -- not unlike the panel that examined the Sept. 11, 2001 attacks -- which could further tarnish Trump's reputation.Trump for now remains secluded in his Florida club.In his statement Saturday, he welcomed the verdict, denouncing the proceedings as "yet another phase of the greatest witch hunt in the history of our country."He then added: "We have so much work ahead of us, and soon we will emerge with a vision for a bright, radiant, and limitless American future."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/after-trump-acquittal-republicans-see-battle-for-soul-of-party-101613344652930.html
15-02-2021||World||Myanmar rattled by army movements, apparent internet cutoff||Sightings of armored personnel carriers in Myanmar’s biggest city and an internet shutdown raised political tensions late Sunday, after vast numbers of people around the country flouted orders against demonstrations to protest the military’s seizure of power.Public concern has already been heightened for the past few nights by what many charge is the military’s manipulation of criminals released from prison to carry out nighttime violence and stir up panic.Ambassadors from the United States and Canada and 12 European nations called on Myanmar's security forces to refrain from violence against those “protesting the overthrow of their legitimate government.” They condemned the arrests of political leaders and activists as well as the military’s interference with communications."We support the people of Myanmar in their quest for democracy, freedom, peace, and prosperity,” they said in a joint statement issued late Sunday night. “The world is watching.”The military seized power on Feb. 1, detaining the country's elected leader, Aung San Suu Kyi, and members of her government and preventing recently elected lawmakers from opening a new session of Parliament.The junta, led by Senior Gen. Min Aung Hlaing, said it was forced to step in because the government failed to properly investigate allegations of fraud in last year’s election, which Suu Kyi’s National League for Democracy party won in a landslide. The state election commission refuted that contention, saying there is no evidence to support it.There was no official word about why armored personnel carriers traversed the streets of Yangon in broad daylight Sunday, making their way through busy traffic. As night fell, there were videos and other reports on social media of the movement of trucks packed with soldiers, and in the central city of Mandalay as well.An order that appears to be from the Ministry of Transport and Communications told mobile phone service providers to shut down internet connections from 1 a.m. to 9 a.m. Monday. It circulated widely on social media, as did a notice said to be from service provider Oredoo Myanmar containing the same details. Several users contacted through other means confirmed that access though Myanmar's broadband and mobile services were cut as scheduled.Monday holds the prospect of two flashpoints for the political standoff.Suu Kyi remains under house arrest, but a remand order holding her on a minor charge of possessing unregistered imported walkie-talkies expires Monday and a court in the capital, Naypyitaw, is supposed to take action on her case. Her freedom is a major demand of the protest movement.Khin Maung Zaw, a lawyer asked by Suu Kyi’s party to represent her, said he was uncertain if she would have a court appearance Monday, and it could be delayed by a day. He has not been able to make contact with Suu Kyi.There is also the possibility that a young woman who was shot during a demonstration last week, also in Naypyitaw, will be declared legally dead. She has been on life support in a hospital in the capital, and unofficial memorial services were held for her Sunday at protests in Yangon and Mandalay, the country’s two biggest cities.Large demonstrations were also held in Naypyitaw and far-flung corners of the country dominated by ethnic minorities.Resistance also took place in cyberspace, as a group calling itself BrotherHood of Myanmar Hackers defaced the government’s Myanmar Digital News website, replacing content on its home page with words and pictures against the military takeover.Protesters in Yangon again rallied outside the Chinese and U.S. embassies. They accuse Beijing of propping up the military regime and applaud Washington’s actions sanctioning the military. There were scattered appeals on Twitter for armed intervention by the United States.Other protesters carried signs urging people to boycott businesses linked to the military.Eight days of street demonstrations are estimated to have drawn hundreds of thousands of people to the streets despite the threat of six months’ imprisonment for violating an order banning gatherings of five or more people. The same order imposes an 8 p.m. to 4 a.m. curfew.Sunday’s activism took place after the ruling junta issued a new order suspending several basic civil liberties.The order, issued late Saturday and published Sunday in state newspapers, suspends provisions in an existing law on security and privacy protection, allowing the authorities to carry out searches and make arrests without court warrants.It also allows the interception of electronic and other communications without a warrant and permits the detention of detainees for more than 24 hours without court permission.Civil servants have been very active in the protests, and social media postings on Sunday indicated that state railway workers have joined them, with some unconfirmed claims that they have gone on strike.The public at large has been alarmed since the government last week declared an amnesty that led to the release of more than 23,000 convicts. There are many claims on social media that some have been recruited by the authorities to carry out violent activities at night in residential areas to spread panic, especially by setting fires. Some areas have responded by setting up their own neighborhood watch groups.The truth of the allegations about government-directed thugs is difficult to verify, even with videos claiming to show their activities. There is historical precedent, as the military released convicts to carry out violence and cause chaos in 1988 during a failed popular uprising against a military dictatorship.People have also been rattled by police raids carried out during curfew hours to seize individuals seen as opposed to the coup. In several cases, nearby residents rushed to the scene in such numbers that security forces abandoned their attempts to haul in their targets.The independent Assistance Association for Political Prisoners says 400 people have been detained since the coup, with 375 still being held.Detainees have included political leaders, government officials, civil servants, activists and student leaders. Medical personnel have been singled out because their community initiated the civil disobedience campaign against the military takeover and remains in its vanguard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/myanmar-rattled-by-army-movements-apparent-internet-cutoff-101613344672830.html
15-02-2021||World||Trump acquitted, Biden calls it ‘sad chapter’ for democracy||Former president Donald Trump was acquitted on Saturday, with not enough senators voting to convict him of inciting the riot at the US Capitol on January 6. He will still go down in history as the only American president to have been impeached twice, and acquitted twice.The motion to convict Trump for the riot received 57 “guilty” verdicts, with seven Republicans joining all the 50 Democrats; and 43 “not guilty”, by all the remaining Republicans. A conviction, which would have barred him from holding any federal office in future, required 67 votes, or two-thirds of the 100-member chamber.“While the final vote did not lead to a conviction, the substance of the charge is not in dispute,” President Joe Biden said. “This sad chapter in our history has reminded us that democracy is fragile. That it must always be defended. That we must be ever vigilant. That violence and extremism has no place in America. And that each of us has a duty and responsibility as Americans, and especially as leaders, to defend the truth and to defeat the lies.”This was the largest bipartisan vote ever in the impeachment trial of a US president. And it reflected the growing disaffection with Trump in the party. Seven Republicans declared him guilty this time, compare to only one during his first impeachment trial in January 2020; and 10 House Republicans had voted to impeach him this time, compared to none the last time, in December 2019.Many of the Republicans who voted “not guilty” on Saturday were at pains to stress they had done so only on a technicality — that the American constitution does not provide for convicting a president who is no longer in office. They denounced him roundly for his role in inciting the insurrection. Among them was Mitch McConnell, the top Republican in the Senate, who voted “not guilty” but said in a speech that Trump was “practically and morally responsible” for the Capitol invasion.Speaker Nancy Pelosi, a Democrat, lashed out at them, telling reporters later, “What we saw in that Senate today was a cowardly group of Republicans who apparently have no options, because they were afraid to defend their job, respect the institution in which they serve.”Trump thanked his lawyers and supporters in a statement and sought to play the victim saying the trial was “yet another phase of the greatest witch hunt in the history of our Country’”. He also indicated he will be back — “soon we will emerge with a vision for a bright, radiant, and limitless American future”.The acquittal may not, however, mark the end of Trump’s legal troubles, both related to the insurrection and other ongoing cases. “President Trump is still liable for everything he did while he was in office as an ordinary citizen,” McConnell pointed to it in his floor speech explaining his vote. “He didn’t get away with anything. Yet.”A Georgia county opened a criminal investigation last week into efforts by Trump to pressure election officials in the state to overturn his defeat. New York district attorney is investigating financial dealings regarding his signature Manhattan properties, a probe that started two years ago with the payment of hush money by the Trump campaign. And the Southern District of New York has been investigating a non-public probe, according to the Trump’s former lawyer Michael Cohen.The House of Representatives had impeached Trump on January 13 on the solitary charge of inciting insurrection at the US Capitol on January 6. Incited by him, a mob of supporters had breached the seat of American democracy to prevent a joint session of Congress from verifying President Joe Biden’s election victory. Five people died in the melee, including a police officer. More than 200 people have been charged for alleged involvement since.The final conviction vote capped a day of dramatic twists and turns, starting with the decision by the impeachment House managers — nine Democratic members of the House of Representatives — to call for witnesses to testify in the trial, a surprising development that could have potentially prolonged the process for days if not weeks.But the House managers ultimately dropped the move in a deal with Trump’s lawyers, and the trial was back on track, heading speedily for the vote as was expected earlier.“We’ve offered you overwhelming and irrefutable and certainly unrefuted evidence that former president Trump incited this insurrection against us,” said Representative Jamie Raskin, the lead House manager, launching the team’s closing argument. He and other managers went over some of the evidence they had presented earlier in their case for convicting Trump and tried, but failed, to introduce new ones.Trump’s defence lawyer Michael van der Veen argued in his closing remarks, “At no point did you hear anything that could ever possibly be construed as Mr Trump encouraging or sanctioning an insurrection. He added: “The act of incitement never happened. He engaged in no language of incitement whatsoever on January 6 or any other day following the election.”The seven Republicans who voted to convict the former president are Senators Mitt Romney, Bill Cassidy, Richard Burr, Susan Collins, Lisa Murkowski, Pat Toomey and Ben Sasse. “President Trump incited the insurrection against Congress by using the power of his office to summon his supporters to Washington on January 6th and urging them to march on the Capitol during the counting of electoral votes,” Romney, who is also a former presidential candidate, said in a statement. “President Trump also violated his oath of office by failing to protect the Capitol, the vice president, and others in the Capitol. Each and every one of these conclusions compels me to support conviction.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-acquitted-biden-calls-it-sad-chapter-for-democracy-101613281421903.html
15-02-2021||India||In Kerala, protests against backdoor appointments in govt jobs intensifies||Amid ongoing protests by Kerala public service commission rank holders against backdoor entry in service, the Kerala government on Monday decided to give permanent posting to 221 people who have been working on temporary basis.While the government insists that these temporary workers were inducted on humanitarian grounds, the rank holders alleged that party affiliation was the main criteria and their appointments were illegal.As the stir outside the state secretariat intensified two young Congress legislators, K S Sabarinathan and Shafi Parambil, also started a fast in solidarity with the agitating young men. But the ruling CPI (M) said opposition parties were behind the stir and blamed them for provoking the youth before the assembly elections.Protesting candidates crawled outside the secretariat on their knees on Monday and two of them were later hospitalized after they fainted. A spokesperson for the agitators said it was wrong to say political parties sponsored their agitation and they were only concerned about the backdoor entry which stole their opportunities. These candidates have pitched tents outside the secretariat for more than a week protesting against filling up of vacancies ignoring rank holders.“Recently the Left Front organised a shutdown in West Bengal alleging backdoor entry in government service. In Kerala they are resorting to same tactics. The state has never seen such an insensitive government,” said state Congress president Mullapally Ramachandran. But the government dubbed it as an election stunt.“Usually the rank list is huge and it is five times higher than existing vacancies. No government can give jobs to all aspirants. Some job aspirants have fallen in the hands of the opposition,” said state finance minister Thomas Issac.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-kerala-protests-against-backdoor-appointments-in-govt-jobs-intensifies-101613411817704.html
15-02-2021||India||Centre deregulates geospatial data and map-making in India||India on Monday liberalised its regulations on geospatial data, allowing private companies to conduct surveying and mapping without prior government approvals and sharing the data for various everyday applications, from logistics and transport to road safety and e-commerce.Under the new policy, geospatial data from government agencies such as the Survey of India and the Indian Space Research Organisation will also be made available to public and private companies.“Our government has taken a decision that will provide a huge impetus to Digital India. Liberalising policies governing the acquisition and production of geospatial data is a massive step in our vision for an Aatmanirbhar Bharat,” or Self-Reliant India, Prime Minister Narendra Modi wrote in a tweet.He added in another tweet: “The reforms will unlock tremendous opportunities for our country’s start-ups, private sector, public sector and research institutions to drive innovations and build scalable solutions. This will also generate employment and accelerate economic growth.”Read more: Centre issues fresh guidelines for offices. Here’s what you need to knowThe new guidelines will allow increase the scale, speed, and accuracy of mapping. Indian entities will require no prior approvals, security clearances, licenses for acquisition and production of geospatial data and geospatial data services, including maps.“Geospatial data is vital for all manners of planning and development work. There are three major objectives of the new guidelines—first, ease of collecting, using and sharing geospatial data. Second, deregulating the sector and allowing private entities to survey and map all physically accessible areas without prior approvals. Third, sharing the geospatial data collected by government agencies with the public and the industries,” said Prof. Ashutosh Sharma, secretary of department of science and technology.The government estimates that the new guidelines will boost the geospatial data sector to a value of ₹1 lakh crore by 2030, create jobs for 2.2 million people, and have a multifold impact on the economy.Read more: Only 4% beneficiaries turn up for second vaccine shot: Centre“This will be beneficial for all allied sectors that need geospatial data such as logistics and transportation, road safety, e-commerce. It will also aid government programmes such as MNREGA where people will now be able to see the implementation of various projects and their progress. It will have huge economic impact. Just an example would be the logistics industry, where the country spends around 13% of GDP. This can be brought down to 9% using geospatial data and other technology,” said Rohan Verma, CEO and executive director of MapmyIndia, a technology company that builds digital map data, and offers telematics services and location-based software as a service and geographic information systems using artificial intelligence.The new policy restricts the terrestrial mapping and surveying to only Indian entities—both public and private. The data generated also needs to be owned and stored in India, with foreign entities being allowed to license it. High resolution data—finer than 1m horizontally and 3m vertically—will still remain restricted.“This will also level the playing field for Indian companies. Just as an example, while Google Earth could provide satellite images on the map we weren’t allowed to do so even though we had the technology. It will promote projects like the 4D map that we are working on—a 3D map with realtime updated data that can be used by applications such as autonomous vehicles,” said Verma.Read more: Govt asks Covid vaccination centres to send out reminders about second jabAjey Lele, senior fellow working with space security and strategic technologies at the Institute for Defence Studies and Analyses, said that this will allow companies to use Indian data instead of paying for expensive data from other satellites.“We have very good remote sensing satellites as well as earth observation satellites, but so far the data was not freely available to private players. This resulted in many applications using data from foreign satellites and paying a lot for it. This policy will allow data generated by Isro to be used and it will be more cost effective,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-deregulates-geospatial-data-and-map-making-in-india-101613410526630.html
15-02-2021||India||Over 85 lakh vaccinated against coronavirus so far: Health Ministry||The number of healthcare and frontline workers vaccinated against the coronavirus in the country has surpassed 85 lakh, the Union Health Ministry said on Monday.A total of 85,16,771 beneficiaries have been vaccinated through 1,83,664 sessions, according to a provisional report till Monday 6 pm.Those vaccinated include 61,54,894 healthcare workers (HCWs), out of whom 60,57,162 have been administered the first dose and 98,118 given the second dose. Besides, 23,61,491 frontline workers (FLWs) have been inoculated so far.The 2nd dose of COVID-19 vaccination started from Saturday for those beneficiaries who have completed 28 days after receipt of the 1st dose. The vaccination of the FLWs had started from February 2."A total 2,31,476 beneficiaries were vaccinated till 6 pm on Monday, the thirty-first day of nationwide COVID-19 vaccination. Out of which, 1,57,919 beneficiaries were vaccinated for 1st dose and 73,557 HCWs received 2nd dose of vaccine as per the provisional report," the ministry said, adding the final report would be completed by late in the night.As many as 9,935 sessions were held till 6 pm on Monday and all states and union territories conducted the vaccination.Fourteen states and UTs have vaccinated more than 70 per cent of the registered HCWs. These are Bihar, Lakshadweep, Tripura, Odisha, Madhya Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand, Kerala, Rajasthan, Mizoram and Sikkim.Five states and UTs have reported less than 40 per cent coverage of registered HCWs. These are Punjab, Tamil Nadu, Chandigarh, Nagaland and Puducherry.Ten states that recorded the highest number of vaccinations on Monday are Uttar Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, West Bengal, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Tamil Nadu and Madhya Pradesh.Total 35 persons have been hospitalised after being administered a vaccine so far, which account for 0.0004 per cent of the total vaccinations.Of the 35 cases of hospitalisation, 21 were discharged after treatment, while 11 persons died and three are under treatment. In the last 24 hours, one person suffering from central retinal vein occlusion has been hospitalised due to high BP at Bombay Hospital, Indore, MP. The patient is stable.Total 28 deaths have been recorded till date. These comprise 0.0003 per cent of the total COVID-19 vaccinations. Of the 28, eleven persons died in the hospital while 17 deaths are recorded outside the hospital."No case of serious/severe AEFI/Death is attributable to vaccination, till date," the ministry said.In last 24 hours, the death of a 53-year-old man, who was a resident of Deoria, UP has been reported. The person suffered from sudden breathlessness and chest pain on the second day of vaccination and was brought dead to the hospital. The post-mortem has been done and results are awaited, the ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-85-lakh-vaccinated-against-coronavirus-so-far-health-ministry-101613409582934.html
15-02-2021||India||PM Modi to inaugurate key Tamil Nadu projects on Feb 17||New Delhi, Feb 15 (PTI) Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate key projects of the oil and gas sector in Tamil Nadu on February 17 via video conferencing.His office said Modi will dedicate to the nation the Ramanathapuram–Thoothukudi natural gas pipeline and gasoline desulphurisation unit at Chennai Petroleum Corporation Limited, Manali.He will also lay the foundation stone of Cauvery Basin Refinery at Nagapattinam.These projects will result in substantial socio-economic benefits and will boost the country's march towards Urja Aatmanirbharta, the PMO said.The Ramanathapuram-Thoothukudi section (143 km) of the Ennore-Thiruvallur- Bengaluru- Puducherry- Nagapattinam- Madurai-Tuticorin Natural Gas Pipeline has been laid at the cost of about ₹700 crore.It will help utilise gas from ONGC gas fields and deliver natural gas as feedstock to industries and other commercial customers.The gasoline desulphurisation unit at Chennai Petroleum Corporation Limited (CPCL), Manali has been constructed at the cost of about Rs. 500 crore.It will produce low-sulphur (less than 8 ppm) environment-friendly gasoline, help reduce emission and contribute towards a cleaner environment, the PMO said.The Cauvery basin refinery to be set up at Nagapattinam will have a capacity of 9 million metric tonnes per annum. It will be set up through a Joint Venture of IOCL and CPCL at an estimated project cost of Rs. 31,500 crore.It will produce motor spirit and diesel meeting BS-VI specifications, and polypropylene as a value-added product, the PMO noted.Tamil Nadu is among the five states going to the assembly polls in April-May.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-inaugurate-key-tamil-nadu-projects-on-feb-17-101613407804741.html
15-02-2021||India||Magnitude 3.5 earthquake shakes Bihar; no injuries, damage||A 3.5-magnitude earthquake struck several districts of Bihar, including the capital city of Patna, according to the National Center for Seismology. According to the agency, tremors occurred 20km northwest of Nalanda at 9:23pm. No injuries or damage was reported.According to Hindustan, HT’s sister publication, people who rushed out of their homes in Patna said that they felt the tremors for two to three seconds. The Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Tejashwi Yadav requested people to take precautions and go to safe open places if needed.“Tremors felt in Patna. I wish everyone safety and plead all to be attentive, take safety precautions & move to safe open spaces if needed,” Yadav posted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/magnitude-3-5-earthquake-shakes-bihar-no-injuries-damage-101613408118724.html
15-02-2021||India||AIADMK, Sasikala likely to claim Jayalalithaa's legacy on her birth anniversary||The next big political event in Tamil Nadu politics appears to be late chief minister J Jayalalithaa’s 73rd birth anniversary on February 24 as the ruling AIADMK has already begun rolling out programs. Party's expelled interim general secretary, VK Sasikala’s team is also preparing for the event, according to political leaders.After her 23-hours-long marathon road-show from Bengaluru to Chennai last week, a person considered close to Sasikala said that her doctors had advised her to rest in isolation which ended Monday and they were preparing for a grand roadshow on Amma’s birthday. Jayalalithaa is identified as Amma, meaning mother, in Tamil Nadu.Sasikala held the reins of the party briefly between Jayalalithaa’s death in December 2016 and her imprisonment in the disproportionate assets case in February 2017.After completing her four-year imprisonment and being treated for Covid-19, Sasikala returned to Tamil Nadu and announced that she would be active in state politic. She positioned herself as Jayalalithaa’s heir in the AIADMK urging the party to work together against a common rival - DMK. Sasikala received thousands of supporters along her road route which came from a breakaway faction Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK) formed by her nephew TTV Dhinakaran in 2018.Also read: Disengagement in eastern Ladakh’s Pangong Tso in full swing, may be over soon“We will be calling for a meeting soon and discuss the preparations for Amma’s birthday anniversary,” said AMMK general secretary G Senthamizhan. “It could be something like how Chinamma garlanded MGR’s statue at his residence on her return.” Jayalalithaa used to be addressed by party cadre as Amma (mother) in Tamil and later Sasikala as Chinnamma (mother’s younger sister). Dhinakaran has said that they will explore legal options for Sasikala to reclaim the AIADMK and also contest the upcoming elections. The Representation of People’s Act 1951 bars Sasikala from contesting or holding any constitutional post for the next six years.Chief minister Edapaddi Palaniswami-led AIADMK is firm on not taking Sasikala back. The ruling party always had elaborate plans and implemented welfare schemes on Jayalalithaa’s birth anniversary. On Monday, the AIADMK conducted a mass wedding for 123 couples from all faiths to commemorate Jayalalithaa’s birth anniversary as well as highlight the marriage welfare schemes that she introduced.“Amma had instructed that her birthday should be celebrated by doing good for the people,” said Palaniswami in Coimbatore after conducting the mass wedding. “As her birthday is approaching, it will be a day that brings happiness to the poor.” The party also announced that applications will be open from February 24 for those wishing to contest the polls in Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Kerala.“After her (Sasikala) massive entry, she may choose Jayalalithaa's birth anniversary to project herself to the public as someone who can truly claim the right to Jayalalithaa's legacy having been her shadow nearly for thirty years,” said Durai Karunanidhi, a commentator on Dravidian politics. Karunanidhi, however, also cautioned that Sasikala may not act unless she knows the act will be successful.Palaniswami and his deputy O Panneerselvam, both former Sasikala loyalists, had turned against her and the party has vastly changed since her imprisonment. “It’s a setback for Sasikala that no senior AIADMK leader has met her, that’s why she is quiet now,” said Karunanidhi.The AIADMK has expelled at least a dozen functionaries for welcoming Sasikala and participating in her roadshow. Following her release, the government blocked public entry to Jayalalithaa’s mausoleum, converted her residence into a memorial which is also out of bounds to prevent Sasikala's entry."Since the AIADMK is in power, the AMMK may not try organising any events in these (above mentioned) places but could hold a public rally and roll out social programs," added Karunanidhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aiadmk-sasikala-likely-to-claim-jayalalithaa-s-legacy-on-her-birth-anniversary-101613407290190.html
15-02-2021||India||After gram panchayat polls, Andhra preps for municipal elections on March 10||As the elections to 13,000-odd gram panchayats in Andhra Pradesh come to a close on February 21, the state will be witnessing yet another electoral battle, this time for urban local bodies, early next month.The state election commission on Monday announced the schedule for elections to 12 municipal corporations and 75 municipalities and nagar panchayats across the state in a single phase on March 10.The election process for these urban local bodies had actually commenced in March 2020, but the SEC had to postpone them indefinitely due to imposition of the nationwide lockdown on account of the Coronavirus pandemic.“When the process was stalled on March 15, 2020 due to the pandemic, nominations were received and scrutinised. Now, the process will resume from the stage of withdrawal of nominations,” state election commissioner N Ramesh Kumar said, in an official release.The withdrawal of nominations will be accepted on March 2 and 3. The final list of candidates will be announced on March 3. The polling will be conducted on March 10 and re-polling, if required, will be held on March 13. Counting of votes will take place on March 14.Unlike the gram panchayat elections which are being held on non-party basis, the elections to the municipalities, nagar panchayats and municipal corporations will be held on party-basis and the contestants, other than independents, will be allotted their respective party symbols.The YSR Congress party, which has been claiming that the candidates supported by it have bagged the majority of 82-85 per cent of gram panchayats, hopes to repeat the show in the elections to urban local bodies as well.“Our government’s welfare schemes will fetch us the votes in urban local bodies as well. The opposition parties will have to bite the dust,” YSRC leader and state endowments minister Vellampalli Srinivas said.Senior Telugu Desam Party leader Bonda Umamaheshwar Rao said the SEC should have announced fresh schedule for the municipal polls, instead of continuing the stalled process.“Last year, the YSRC resorted to large scale violence during the nomination process and intimidated opponents. That is why we requested the SEC to cancel the earlier nominations and start the process afresh. Anyways, the TDP is going to win majority of the urban local bodies,” the TDP leader said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-gram-panchayat-polls-andhra-preps-for-municipal-elections-on-march-10-101613406463632.html
15-02-2021||India||Can do whatever they want to at their movement: BKU's Rakesh Tikait after Congress leader’s liquor offer to farmers||Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait on Monday hit out at Haryana Congress leader Vidya Rani over her remarks about distributing liquor to the protesting farmers, who have been camping at several border points in Delhi for more than 80 days. Tikait said that such people didn’t have anything to do with the agitation against the Centre’s three new farm laws and added that the Congress party could distribute whatever it wanted in its own movement.“What is the use of liquor here? I don’t know why she’s making such comments. Such people don’t have anything to do with the movement. It’s wrong and shouldn’t be done. They can distribute whatever they want to at their movement,” Tikait was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Rani had made the comment during the Congress’ executive meet in Jind, which was attended by Safidon MLA Subhash Gangoli and other leaders. “We should help them. Be it money, vegetables, liquor - we can contribute as we like and strengthen this agitation. It is not a movement of farmers only but all of us,” Rani is heard saying in a 80 second video, which has been doing the rounds on social media.Also Read| Won't let govt sit in peace till farmers' demands met: Rakesh TikaitShe said that the party would take out a ‘padyatra’ or a march in Jind and that the farmers’ protest had further strengthened the party in Haryana after it had been facing a crisis. “The farmers’ protest will give new direction and strength to the party,” the Congress leader from the Narwana constituency added.Tikait also said that 40 farmer leaders, who are spearheading the movement against the central farm laws, would tour across India seeking support for the protest and repeated his previous point that the farmers’ unions would not let the Centre sit in peace till all demands of the protesters are met.Also Watch| 'Send cash, liquor, food': For farmer stir, Congress leader's controversial call“This time the target (for the tractor parade) will be 40 lakh tractors. We all 40 leaders will tour the entire country to gain support. Everyone is united for the movement. Now, the farmers will decide the future of the country,” he said while addressing a mahapanchayat in the Karnal district of Haryana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-congress-leader-s-liquor-offer-to-farmers-bku-s-rakesh-tikait-reacts-101613404306717.html
15-02-2021||India||News updates from HT: Uttarakhand CM orders probe into Wasim Jaffer's resignation and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Uttarakhand CM orders probe into Wasim Jaffer’s resignation as cricket coachAmid the row following the resignation of Uttarakhand state cricket team coach Wasim Jaffer after which an office-bearer of Cricket Association of Uttarakhand (CAU) accused him of "communal bias", chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Monday ordered an inquiry in the matter. Read more‘Not subject to removal’: Twitter on Haryana minister Vij’s tweet on Disha RaviTwitter said on Monday a tweet by Haryana’s home minister Anil Vij, in which he had posted about arrested climate activist Disha Ravi, has been investigated and "is not subject to removal" under rules governing extreme speech online. Read morePresidents' Day 2021: Here’s all you need to know about US federal holidayThe holiday was originally established to celebrate the birthday of George Washington, the first president of the United States, who was born on February 22, 1732. Read moreRavichandran Ashwin slams century, joins unique list of lower order batsmenRavichandran Ashwin made a huge statement on Monday as he scored his fifth Test match century on Day 3 of the second Test against England, to help India set a huge target for the visitors. Read moreDia Mirza-Vaibhav Rekhi wedding: First pictures of newlyweds are here, check them outThe first pictures of actor Dia Mirza, decked up as a bride on her wedding day, have arrived online. Dia tied the knot with Vaibhav Rekhi on Monday. Read timeDia Mirza makes for the most beautiful bride in red saree and dupatta, see picsDraped in a red saree, Dia Mirza made for a beautiful bride. The first few images of Dia walking towards the mandap at her wedding landed on the internet and spread like wildfire. The actor married her boyfriend and businessman Vaibhav Rekhi on February 15, 2021, in a private ceremony at her home. Only close family and friends were in attendance. Read moreWatch: Rajnath Singh hands over trophies to best marching contingents from R-DayDefence Minister Rajnath Singh on Monday handed over the trophies of best marching contingents of this year's Republic Day parade to the Jat Regimental Centre and the Delhi Police. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-u-khand-cm-orders-probe-into-wasim-jaffer-s-resignation-101613400068998.html
15-02-2021||India||Amid rise in Covid-19 cases, Maharashtra minister looks at ‘3T formula’||Amid the rising cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Maharashtra, the state government had said the "3T formula" of tracing, testing and treatment will have to be implemented strictly to tackle the increase. The state’s health minister Rajesh Tope said they had managed to flatten the curve in the last one month as far as daily Covid-19 cases were concerned, but a recent rise in the numbers in Mumbai, Wardha and some other areas was "alarming"."We have given instructions that the 3T formula of tracing, testing and treatment be implemented strictly, effectively. Testing needs to be increased. Meanwhile, people also need to follow Covid-19 guidelines," Tope said, according to news agency PTI.Photos: Experts sound alarm after Maharashtra reports record cases in 39 daysTope said the situation needs to be controlled as "we don't want to go in for a lockdown now". He also said the state was waiting for the Centre to start the second round of vaccination, adding that the shots should be given free to the "poor and lower middle class".Maharashtra on Sunday recorded 4,092 Covid-19 infections, over 4,000 for the first time since January 6, taking its tally to 2,064,278. Mumbai, meanwhile, reported over 600 cases after 31 days with 645 fresh infections. The city last saw over 600 cases in a day on January 14.Health experts have attributed the rise in cases to the increased movement of people post the resumption of activities and the operation of trains in Mumbai and Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), and fatigue in wearing masks and sanitising.They have sounded an alarm and said that authorities will have to increase tracing and testing and the people will have to strictly adhere to Covid-appropriate behaviour. They also suggested that areas, where cases have on the rise, should be put on “red alert”.The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has not yet decided on any further relaxations in the city and said that a decision about it and unlocking will be taken on February 22 after monitoring the situation in Mumbai. Experts have said that several factors, including restarting local train services for all, increased mingling among groups and non-compliance of Covid-19 appropriate behaviour, are some of the reasons for the increase in daily cases in the past five days.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-rise-in-covid-19-cases-maharashtra-minister-looks-at-3t-formula-101613401224424.html
15-02-2021||India||Toolkit row: Shantanu Muluk, one of 3 accused, seeks transit anticipatory bail||Shantanu Muluk, one of the three accused named by the Delhi Police in connection with the Google toolkit row, on Monday moved the Aurangabad bench of Bombay High Court, seeking transit anticipatory bail in connection with the case. The plea is similar to the one filed by activist-lawyer Nikita Jacob, who, earlier in the day, moved an urgent transit anticipatory bail plea before the high court.Also Read | Greta toolkit: Nikita Jacob moves HC for anticipatory bailSatej Jadhav, who represents Muluk, said a non-bailable warrant (NBW) has been issued against Muluk in the first information report (FIR) filed by the Delhi Police’s cyber cell, which also includes names of Jacob and Bengaluru-based climate activist Disha Ravi. Ravi was arrested by the Delhi Police on Sunday.The bench of Justice Vibha Kankanwadi has allowed the circulation of Muluk’s application and will take up the plea on Tuesday.The Delhi Police said earlier in the day that Ravi, who has been sent to five-day police custody, created the toolkit detailing digital support for protests against the three farm laws, in collaboration with Jacob and Muluk. This information, the police claimed, was revealed by Ravi during her interrogation in Bengaluru. “The email account created by Shantanu is the owner of this doc and all others are editors,” Prem Nath, joint commissioner of police of the cyber cell, said.Also Read | Disha Ravi, Nikita Jacob and Shantanu created toolkit, say Delhi PoliceThe officer further said that information from Jacob’s phone shows that she and Ravi had sent it to Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg on the Telegram app.The controversy dates back to earlier this month, when Thunberg was among a host of international celebrities, who tweeted on the ongoing farmers’ protest in India. Thunberg also tweeted a toolkit, detailing how to protest against the laws, but deleted the tweet and later posting an edited version of the document. After this, the Delhi Police registered an FIR against ‘unknown persons.’Barbadian pop star Rihanna was the first international celebrity to tweet on the protests. US lawyer Meena Harris, the niece of vice president Kamala Harris, too, has tweeted about the farmers' protests, as well as the arrest of Ravi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/toolkit-row-shantanu-muluk-one-of-3-accused-seeks-transit-anticipatory-bail-101613401267452.html
15-02-2021||India||India, Japan pitch for Assam to be hub of connectivity with Southeast Asia||India and Japan on Monday made a strong pitch for Assam to be a hub for connectivity and economic activities with Southeast Asia, with Japanese funding playing a key role in taking forward infrastructure and development projects.External affairs minister S Jaishankar and Japanese ambassador Satoshi Suzuki visited the north-eastern state to review projects being implemented with Japanese support, and outlined a vision of Assam playing a crucial role in India’s efforts to link up with and benefit from new markets in Southeast Asian countries such as Myanmar and Vietnam.The visit was a follow-up to the meeting on January 28 of the Act East Forum, a special body formed in 2017 and co-chaired by the Japanese envoy and India’s foreign secretary to boost development of the northeast.“Assam has long been the bridge between India and the world to our east,” Jaishankar told a symposium in Guwahati that was also addressed by Suzuki.Assam’s role over the centuries in facilitating the flow of goods, people and ideas till as far as Korea and Japan was disrupted by colonialism and partition, and the “Act East” policy will create connectivity “to and within Assam, beyond to the northeast, then to neighbouring Myanmar and Bangladesh, but eventually push all the way by road, by sea, by air to Vietnam [and] Japan,” Jaishankar said.Suzuki said enhancing connectivity across India’s eastern border is critical because the country “faces certain restrictions in the western border outlet”. He added: “Japan always takes a panoramic perspective in its diplomacy. The vision for a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific is at its centre, and India’s northeast, including Assam, occupies an important place in this vision.”The northeast is “situated where India’s Act East policy and Japan’s vision for a free and open Indo-Pacific converge”, he said. “To be ‘free and open’ is critical here in Assam. That is why Japan is supporting various connectivity projects in this state,” he added.Jaishankar said Assam has the potential to become the centre of a hub covering Myanmar, Bangladesh and Bhutan, and India has worked to coordinate with Japan’s projects in these three countries.India, he said, intends to make the Brahmaputra River the main channel for movement of goods and people in an area ranging from the Himalayas to the Bay of Bengal by creating inland water connectivity to the key ports of Chittagong and Mongla in Bangladesh. India is also developing the Eastern Waterways Transport Connectivity Grid with support from the World Bank, and river ports such as Dhubri and Karimganj in Assam are being used to move goods to and from Bhutan and Bangladesh, he said.New Delhi also plans to make Assam the hub for transmission of surplus power to the neighbourhood, and work is on to develop new transmission lines connecting Assam with Bihar through Bangladesh, Jaishankar said. Since Assam is a major producer of refined petroleum products, the government is trying to facilitate the sale of these products to the larger region through steps such as building a pipeline to Bangladesh to supply high speed diesel.In recent years, Japan has backed several crucial infrastructure projects in the northeast. It signed a loan agreement of ₹1,600 crores for the 20-km Dhubri-Phulbari bridge on the Brahmaputra to be built at a cost of more than ₹6,000 crores. The bridge, which will be the longest river bridge in India, will shorten the travel time across the river in this area from more than eight hours to less than 30 minutes.Jaishankar and Suzuki also visited parts of the Guwahati water supply system that are being renovated with a Japanese loan of ₹1,183 crores, which constitutes a major part of the total project cost of Rs. 1,443 crores. Japan is also backing the ₹1,460-crore Guwahati sewerage project with a loan of more than ₹1,000 crores.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-japan-pitch-for-assam-to-be-hub-of-connectivity-with-southeast-asia-101613398979649.html
15-02-2021||India||Danfoss, IISc ink pact to promote natural refrigerants||Danfoss Industries said on Monday it has signed an MoU with Indian Institute of Science here to promote use of natural refrigerants. The collaboration aims to develop a research and training centre focused on promoting the use of natural or CO2-based refrigerants, a company statement said. Refrigerants lie at the core of the cold chain and refrigeration industry, but traditional refrigerants such as Hydrochlorofluorocarbons and Chlorofluorocarbons are known to contribute to global warming, and the depletion of the ozone layer which protects the earth from harmful UV light. In recent times, there has been an increase in the use of natural refrigerants like ammonia and CO2-based refrigerants, R744 (CO2) and R290 (Propane). "To promote their wider adoption across India, the MoU between Danfoss India and IISc aims to increase knowledge systems around natural refrigerants both at the academic and industry level", the statement said. "This collaboration with IISc endeavours to enhance R&D and skill development in the use of natural refrigerants in lieu of HCFCs and HFCs", President, Danfoss Industries Pvt. Ltd., India Region, Ravichandran Purushothaman said. The MoU aims to provide training in best practices at various levels, including for teachers, students, field and maintenance engineers, technicians and practicing engineers, it was stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/danfoss-iisc-ink-pact-to-promote-natural-refrigerants-101613400347561.html
15-02-2021||India||Ker CM launches fibre optic network for free internet access to 20 lakh families||To bridge the digital divide by providing high-speed, affordable internet connectivity to every household, Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday launched the KFON (Kerala Fibre Optic Network) in the state.Speaking at the launch event, the Chief Minister said that KFON will revolutionise the digital space."With KFON, free internet connectivity will be provided to 20 lakh BPL families. It will also cover villages in all 14 districts. Earlier only 10 per cent of government offices had high-speed Internet, with the launch of KFON, 30,000 government institutions will have high brand width connectivity,' said the Chief Minister.KFON is a joint venture of Kerala State IT Infrastructure Limited and Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB). A consortium led by Bharat Electronics Limited (BEL) was selected to implement the project in March 2019.The Chief Minister said the project will leverage the infrastructure of the Kerala State Electricity Board by establishing a core ring, and a network operating center will be set up at Eranakulam."Across the 14 districts in the state, a 35,000-kilometer-long optic fiber network is being laid, which once completed will be the largest such network. All service providers will have the option to use the network. The internet speed available will be from 10 Mbps to 1 Gbps," the CM informed.He said that earlier with only private internet service providers in play, cities had internet connectivity, but those in villages lagging behind."With KFON this scenario will be changed," he stated.KFON is part of the Kerala government's effort to provide a digital infrastructure in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ker-cm-launches-fibre-optic-network-for-free-internet-access-to-20-lakh-families-101613399456780.html
15-02-2021||India||Uttarakhand CM orders probe into Wasim Jaffer’s resignation as cricket coach||Amid the row following the resignation of Uttarakhand state cricket team coach Wasim Jaffer after which an office-bearer of Cricket Association of Uttarakhand (CAU) accused him of "communal bias", chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Monday ordered an inquiry in the matter.Rawat had met CAU officials at his official residence in Dehradun on Sunday evening.Darshan Singh Rawat, the chief minister’s media coordinator, confirmed the development. "On Sunday evening, the CM had met few officials of CAU at his residence who apprised him of the matter," he said."After listening to them, he ordered an inquiry in the whole matter. Once the inquiry report comes, he would take the required action," said Rawat.The chief minister’s order for a probe came after a tweet by Congress leader Rahul Gandhi in which he did not name any person or organization.Gandhi in his tweet said, "In the last few years, hate has been normalised so much that even our beloved sport cricket has been marred by it. India belongs to all of us. Do not let them dismantle our unity."The state Congress meanwhile, accused the BJP led state government of communalising the sport."If the CAU would have raised objections on Jaffer's coaching on merit or demerits then it would have been okay. But leveling communal charges against him is totally unacceptable. Under the BJP rule even a sport is being communalised which is not healthy for Uttarakhand's cricket," said Suryakant Dhasmana, Congress state vice-president.The row erupted after Jaffer resigned from the position of state team coach on February 8 citing "interference and bias of selectors and CAU office bearers in team selection and promoting non-deserving players." He was appointed as the coach in June last year on a one-year contract.Following his resignation, CAU secretary Mahim Verma alleged that "Jaffer had been promoting players from a particular community and brought a Muslim cleric among the players for Friday prayers" which Jaffer completely refuted saying, "The communal angle brought in is very sad."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-cm-orders-probe-into-wasim-jaffer-s-resignation-as-cricket-coach-101613398902558.html
15-02-2021||India||Gujarat extends night curfew in 4 metro cities from tomorrow||The Gujarat government on Monday extended the night curfew in four metro cities—Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot—of the state until February 28, additional chief secretary of the home department Pankaj Kumar was cited as saying by news agency ANI. The duration of the curfew has been curtailed in the new order by an hour which begins only at midnight, while the existing night curfew begins at 11pm. The new order comes as the existing night curfew in Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Rajkot and Surat is ending on Monday.“Starting February, Gujarat will strictly follow till February 28 the Covid-19 guidelines issued by the Union ministry of home affairs on January 27. The night curfew would continue to be in force in four metros of the state - Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Rajkot and Surat. But it would now be between 11pm to 6am till February 15,” Kumar had said on January 30, according to news agency PTI.Also read | Vijay Rupani could be in hospital for a week, says Gujarat deputy CMEarlier in the day, chief minister Vijay Rupani tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). He was hospitalised on Sunday in Ahmedabad after he fainted on a stage during an election rally in Vadodara.Gujarat reported 247 new Covid-19 cases and one death on Sunday, taking the overall tally to 265,244, and 4,401 fatalities, PTI reported citing the state health department. Also, the Covid-19 vaccination drive to give the second dose of the vaccine to people covered in the first phase began in the state on Monday.The Union ministry of health and family welfare had said that as of 8am on Monday 683,903 people had received the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine in Gujarat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-extends-night-curfew-in-4-metro-cities-from-tomorrow-101613397651724.html
15-02-2021||India||Mumbai’s Byculla zoo reopens after Covid shutdown, draws 1,400 visitors on Day 1||The Byculla zoo also known as Veermata Jijabai Bhosale Udyan which opened its gates to the public on Monday after remaining closed for almost a year due to the Covid-19 pandemic, drew 1,400 visitors, zoo authorities said.The zoo garnered a revenue of ₹69,600 on the opening day.According to zoo authorities, the two biggest attractions for visitors were the two Royal Bengal tigers named Shakti and Karishma followed by the Humboldt penguins.In February 2020, the zoo had received the two tigers from Aurangabad zoo. It had plans to keep them in the 3,500 square-metre enclosure with landscape and terrain that replicates the conditions in the Ranthambore National Park of Rajasthan.However, by March 2020 the zoo was shut owing to Covid-19 lockdown with the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) announcing the shutdown on March 15, 2020.The zoo’s director Dr Sanjay Tripathi said, "We handled a total of 1,419 people in Byculla zoo and earned a total revenue of Rs. 69,600. This excludes senior citizens whose entry is free."The zoo authorities expect the number of visitors to go up in the coming days when the situation normalises.In normal times, the zoo gets around 6,000 to 8,000 visitors daily on weekdays, and nearly 10,000 on weekends. The zoo also gets many visitors in the form of morning and evening walkers. However, currently owing to the Covid-19 pandemic, walkers are not allowed inside the zoo, but are allowed to walk in the garden area outside the zoo. Current timings of the zoo are 9 am to 6 pm.Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar will inaugurate the social media pages of the Byculla zoo on Tuesday.According to the plan, Byculla zoo will have dedicated social media pages under the banner of Mumbai Zoo on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram and YouTube."The plan is to upload daily activities of animals on our dedicated social media page and also upload educational materials on our social media pages about the zoo and wildlife inside the zoo," Dr Tripathi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbais-byculla-zoo-reopens-after-covid-shutdown-draws-1-400-visitors-on-day-1-101613397130298.html
15-02-2021||India||Pak spouses of Kashmiri men flag their plight, seek citizenship, travel papers||Women from Pakistan and Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK) who married Kashmiri men and had traveled to Jammu and Kashmir after 2010 announcement of amnesty policy for former militants by then chief minister Omar Abdullah, on Monday reiterated demands of citizenship rights and travel documents for them and their children to visit their parents, siblings and relatives across the border.At a press conference, the group of women appealed to the governments of India and Pakistan to look into their issues from a humanitarian point of view.“We see the last glimpses of our dead relatives on the phone. We see their funerals on video calls. What can be a bigger tyranny than this? Imagine the plight of one’s daughter or sister if she can’t visit her home for 9-10 years or you can’t see her dead body,” said Toiba, a resident of Baramulla district, who had come with her Kashmiri husband and three kids nine years ago from Pakistan.“We are not criminals. We are women and have small kids. We request the governments of India and Pakistan to decide something for us. The Government of India should either deport us or provide us with the travel documents,” she said.The women’s group is part of the hundreds of women who came here with their Kashmiri husbands after the then chief minister Omar Abdullah in 2010 had announced a return and rehabilitation policy for former militants who were living in PoK.Out of many Kashmiri youth who had crossed the Line of Control (LoC) into PoK in the 1990s to get arms training after insurgency started in Kashmir valley, some had given up violence, married there and started their lives afresh.There are no official figures from the government of the number of those returning but the women say that they are 400 in number who came with their Kashmiri husbands.“Our husbands are Indian. We have married them. We have kids. What sort of justice is this that you accept them but you don’t accept their wives and children?” Toiba said.Owing to the opposition from the Pakistan side coupled with the then Indian government’s assertion that there were ‘practical issues’ involved in implementing the rehabilitation policy, the returning men and their families were forced to take Nepal route and then by road to Kashmir with authorities going soft on the travelers.The informal entry meant no official recognition of their families or any documents which would help them to travel and acquire education.“The government is now saying that these are illegal immigrants. Why didn't the government deport these families or punish them that time when they had come. Then those 400 women would not have come. How come this illegal thing would continue from 2010 to 2018,” she said.The women have held a number of protests and lately also met lieutenant governor Monoj Sinha."We met LG who listened to our issues and told us to come again. Second time when we went we were detained outside Raj Bhawan without citing any reason. We were lodged in a police station from 10 in morning to 4 in the evening.We were 20 women," said Safiya, a resident of Sopore, who had come from PoK.She said that the 2010 promise of rehabilitation was all false. “They did not fulfill any of their promises. Instead cases were filed against us. We got no documents like Aadhar card or election card nor were we given any citizenship although we knocked on every door,” she said.“Our children are suffering the most. They should get travel documents so that they could acquire education outside,” she said.“We are not terrorists. We are from Pakistan and we have been living here for the past 10-12 years,” she said.The group said that many of the women have been divorced and husbands of some others have died.“In any part of the world, a divorced or widowed woman returns to her parent’s home. Where else will she go with her small children? Why are our parents’ homes snatched from us,” said Toiba.Nabila, a resident of Pattan, had left her minor daughter in Pakistan when she had decided to travel to Kashmir with her husband in 2012. For the past eight years she has been unable to meet her daughter.“I make her excuses when she asks me ‘Mama when are you coming’. I had never imagined that I would get stuck here. What crime have we committed?... This separation has terribly affected our and our children’s mental health,” she said.The group said that if a decision was not taken on their fate then they have plans to march en-masse towards the Line of Control in the near future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pak-spouses-of-kashmiri-men-flag-their-plight-seek-citizenship-travel-papers-101613394227708.html
15-02-2021||India||‘Not subject to removal’: Twitter on Haryana minister Vij’s tweet on Disha Ravi||Twitter said on Monday a tweet by Haryana’s home minister Anil Vij, in which he had posted about arrested climate activist Disha Ravi, has been investigated and "is not subject to removal" under rules governing extreme speech online. Vij had earlier on Monday tweeted in Hindi, saying that wherever seeds of anti-nationalism are found, they have to be exterminated from the roots.Also read | Who is Disha Ravi? Here’s how the activist is linked to Greta ThunbergThe Haryana home minister posted the screenshots of Twitter’s notification hours after his tweet. “We have received a complaint regarding your account, @anilvijminister for the following content…” Twitter said in its response. “We have investigated the reported content and have found that it is not subject to removal under the Twitter Rules or German law. Accordingly, we have not taken any action as a result of this specific report,” it added.pic.twitter.com/hxrzfII3LPIn a comment on the arrest of the 21-year-old Ravi, Vij had on Monday urged the "extermination from the roots" wherever seeds of anti-nationalism are found. “Whoever harbours the seeds of anti-nationalism in their mind, has to be destroyed from the roots, be it #Disha_Ravi or anyone else,” Vij had tweeted in Hindi.Also read | From opposition in the country to global leaders, all come in support of DishaThe minister’s remarks came two days after Ravi was arrested by the Delhi Police for allegedly sharing a Google toolkit related to the farmers’ protest against the Centre’s farm laws with Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg.Delhi Police have claimed that the Bengaluru-based Ravi made the toolkit detailing digital support for the farmers’ protest against the three farm laws in collaboration with Nikita Jacob and Shantanu. They said they had started an investigation ‘against unknown persons’ on February 4 for fomenting ‘disaffection and ill-will against the Indian government’ under the guise of supporting farmers’ unions in connection with the violence on January 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-subject-to-removal-twitter-on-haryana-minister-vij-s-tweet-on-disha-ravi-101613395151741.html
15-02-2021||India||Arvind Kejriwal to visit Meerut, address ‘kisan mahapanchayat’ on February 28||After Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and Rashtriya Lok Dal’s (RLD) Jayant Chaudhary, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal will address a ‘kisan mahapanchayat’ or a farmers' meeting amid the ongoing protests by agriculturists against the three contentious farm laws. Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Sanjay Singh tweeted on Monday saying that party chief Kejriwal will address the mahapanchayat in Uttar Pradesh’s Meerut on February 28.“A workers’ meeting of the party will take place in Meerut on February 28. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal will address farmers through a kisan mahapanchayat. Voices will be raised for farmers from Meerut, which is the land on which the revolution of 1857 took place,” Singh tweeted in Hindi, with the hashtag ‘kaala kanoon vapas lo’ (repeal the black laws).मेरठ में कार्यकर्ता बैठक सम्पन्न 28 फ़रवरी को होगी “किसान महापंचायत” दिल्ली के मुख्यमंत्री @ArvindKejriwal जी किसानो को सम्बोधित करेंगे। 1857 की क्रान्तिभूमि मेरठ से उठेगी किसानो के हक़ में आवाज़। #काला_क़ानून_वापस_लोThe mahapanchayat will mark yet another outreach towards the farmers from Kejriwal and the AAP, who have publicly expressed their support for the protests, as well as opposition to the three legislation, which were passed Parliament in September last year. In Delhi, where farmers have been protesting since November last year, the AAP has been providing free internet connection and water at the protest sites. At a special one-day session of the Delhi assembly in December, Kejriwal and AAP MLAs tore copies of the laws. In the initial days of the protest, the Kejriwal government had denied permission to the Delhi Police to convert city grounds into temporary prisons; the police ostensibly wanted to detain thousands of farmers who were marching to the capital city.On Monday, Kejriwal also expressed support for Bengaluru-based climate activist Disha Ravi, who was arrested by the Delhi Police on Sunday in connection with a toolkit tweeted by Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg, who is among the international celebrities to have spoken out on the anti-farm law protests.Also Read | Disha Ravi’s arrest in 'toolkit case' unprecedented attack on democracy: Arvind KejriwalAfter the violence in Delhi on Republic Day, when protesting farmers clashed with the police, several politicians have visited the protest sites, while others have addressed mahapanchayats. Priyanka Gandhi Vadra addressed farmers in Uttar Pradesh’s Bijnor on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/arvind-kejriwal-to-visit-meerut-address-kisan-mahapanchayat-on-february-28-101613394512125.html
15-02-2021||India||Foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla to pay two-day visit to Russia from Wednesday||Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla will pay a two-day visit to Russia beginning Wednesday during which both sides will deliberate on bilateral as well as topical issues of regional and global importance, the Ministry of External Affairs said on Monday.It said this year's first visit abroad by the foreign secretary to Moscow signifies the importance India attaches to its close and friendly relations with Russia.The MEA said the two sides will review the entire gamut of bilateral relations, including the forthcoming high level exchanges, during Shringla's visit."Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla will pay an official visit to Moscow on February 17-18 at the invitation of Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Igor Morgulov," the MEA said in a statement."The foreign secretary will hold the next round of India-Russia foreign office consultations with Deputy Foreign Minister Morgulov, during which the two sides will review the entire gamut of bilateral relations, including the forthcoming high-level exchanges," it said.The MEA said both sides will also exchange views on topical issues of regional and international importance.The foreign secretary will also deliver a speech on 'India-Russia relations' at the prestigious Diplomatic Academy of the Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, it said."Despite the COVID-19 pandemic situation, India and Russia have sustained the momentum of the Special and Privileged Strategic Partnership between the two countries," the MEA said. PTI MPB NSD NSD||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/foreign-secretary-harsh-vardhan-shringla-to-visit-russia-from-wednesday-101613393673349.html
15-02-2021||India||Punjab's civic body elections: SEC announces re-polling in 3 booths of Patiala||After reports of miscreants allegedly damaging the EVM in some booths of Patiala District surfaced, the State Election Commission of Punjab (SEC) on Monday ordered to conduct re-election in three polling booths of Municipal Council Patran and Samana in the district.SEC said that repolling would be held on February 16, from 08.00 am to 04.00 pm and counting will take place on February 17."Commission has received reports from Returning Officers (RO) Patran that some miscreants allegedly damaged the EVM in polling booth number 11 of ward number 8. Similarly, Commission had also got reports from RO Samana that unknown persons allegedly damaged EVM in polling booth numbers 22 and 23 of ward Number 11," said an official release of SEC.SEC said that taking serious note of these incidents, the Commission has announced to nullify the earlier polling conducted in these booths and ordered to re-poll under Section 59 (2)(A) of Punjab State Election Commission Act, 1994.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjabs-civic-body-elections-sec-announces-re-polling-in-3-booths-of-patiala-101613393344916.html
15-02-2021||India||Ahead of assembly polls, Sabarimala issue back on radar in Kerala||With assembly elections just two months away political parties in Kerala are in a race to rake up the emotional Sabarimala Temple issue yet again but a majority of youngsters who participated in the agitation feel let down. Facing a litany of litigations and with no legal solution in sight they are a tad upset.K Sabarinathan was 18 years old when he was arrested during a hymn-chanting protest in Kollam (south Kerala) at the height of the Sabarimala agitation three years ago. Later, police slapped two more cases against him. A graduate now, he can’t apply for a government job or go abroad since three cases are pending against him. Many youngsters like him are making frequent trips to the court these days as parties are busy raking up the issue in a bid to get votes.A part-time secretary with a private firm PK Jayakumar (23) lost his job after he spent 14 days in Thiruvananthapuram central jail in connection with the agitation. Facing six cases, he was summoned five times last year by two courts-- to add to his woes the six cases are in four different districts.Nearly 50,000 people were booked at the height of the temple agitation three years ago and youngsters are running pillar to post amid a host of cases. A regular at the hill temple Jayakumar said he never expected anything positive from the Communist government but pinned much hope on the BJP government at the Centre.“The Centre is hiding behind mere technicalities and it wants to make the issue live again. Prime Minister Modi and then party chief Amit Shah had said that sacrifices of devotees won’t be wasted. We expected a positive move after Modi stormed back to power but nothing happened,” he said.The state had witnessed large-scale violence and five shutdowns in 2018 after the Supreme Court verdict that allowed women of all ages to the temple annulling an age-old bar on women of reproductive age. For the first time in the history of the state more than 50,000 people were booked in connection with the agitation and many jails were filled to the brim.Three years have passed and the protestors are a worried lot because no legal solution is in sight and many parties that exploited the issue including the BJP are silent now. Worried, the Nair Service Society, a socio-cultural organization of upper caste Nairs, which took a proactive role during the stir has asked Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan to withdraw cases against those who participated in the agitation. In the letter its secretary G Sukumaran Nair cited the plight of youngsters. But the government is yet to react. Though the Congress and BJP promised that all cases will be withdrawn once they assume power, protestors are not moved.“Since review petitions are pending before a larger bench of the apex court the Union government can’t take a decision now. The state government’s affidavit in the court to change the custom is still pending before the court. I am facing more than 200 cases,” said BJP state president K Surendran adding that party will withdraw all cases once it assumed power in the state. A distant third runner in the state, protestors know that it won’t happen in near future.Former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy had written a letter to the CM last month asking him to approach the Supreme Court to speed up verdict and withdraw its earlier affidavit that favoured entry of women of all ages. In the letter Chandy also said the government’s affidavit created much confusion which ultimately led to the five- bench verdict in 2018.But the government is treading cautiously this time—the Sabarimala flip-flop was one of the reasons for the drubbing of the ruling Left Democratic Front (LDF) in the last general election in which it lost all but one of the 20 Lok Sabha seats. “We all know the issue is before the Supreme Court. Bankrupt Congress and BJP are raising it eying votes,” said state law minister A K Balan adding the government will go by the directive of the court.But Bindu Ammini, one of two women who entered the hill temple three years ago making history, said she was worried that some of the progressive outfits have diluted their stance for vote bank politics. She said she expected a steady stream of women to the temple after her entry but it never happened and many who took bold positions now strand retracted.Temple Timeline:1990: Ban on productive women in Sabarimala was first challenged in Kerala High Court which in 1991 ruled that restriction was part of an age-old tradition. Upheld restriction on women between 10-50 age groups.2006: Indian Young Lawyers’ Association filed a PIL in Supreme Court challenging the temple’s practice saying it was discriminatory and against gender justice.2008: The issue was referred to a three-judge bench. Then Congress-led state government favoured status quo.2016: The plea came up for hearing after eight years.2017: A constitution bench was formed to hear the plea. The CPI (M)-led state government supported the entry of women.2018: A five-judge constitution bench allows women of all ages to enter the temple. State witnesses widespread protest.2019: The SC takes up 60-odd review petitions and entrusts the case to a nine-member bench.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-assembly-polls-sabarimala-issue-back-on-radar-in-kerala-101613391521777.html
15-02-2021||India||Supreme Court panel on farm laws holds consultations with agri-professionals, academicians||The Supreme Court-appointed committee on the new farm laws on Monday said it held consultations with eminent academicians and agri-professionals on the legislations against which farmers have been protesting at Delhi's borders for over two months now.This is the seventh meeting the panel has held so far. The three-member committee is holding consultations with stakeholders both online and in person.In a statement, the committee said it held a detailed discussion with academicians and professionals on Monday through video conferencing."In total, 7 eminent academicians and professionals in the field participated through video conferencing for detailed deliberations with the committee members," it said.The committee members requested the participants to give their views on the three farm laws. "All the participating professionals and academicians gave their detailed views and suggestions...," the statement said.The Supreme Court had on January 12 stayed the implementation of the three contentious farm laws for two months and asked the committee to submit a report within two months after consulting the concerned stakeholders.Thousands of farmers, especially from Punjab, Haryana and parts of Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at Delhi's borders for over two months now seeking repeal of the new legislations, introduced by the Centre last year, saying they are pro-corporate and could weaken the mandi system.The 11 rounds of the talks between the Centre and 41 protesting farmer unions has so far remained deadlocked even though the former has offered concessions including suspension of the legislations for 18 months, which the unions have rejected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-panel-on-farm-laws-holds-consultations-with-agri-professionals-academicians-101613389915732.html
15-02-2021||India||Bihar police arrest bootleggers’ associates from Haryana in Muzaffarpur||The Bihar police said Monday that one of its anti-liquor squads arrested four associates of bootleggers from Haryana late Sunday night who were on their way to bail them out of jail.A team from the Ahiapur police station arrested the four men when they were approaching a roundabout on national highway 28. Police also seized their car.Their associates had been arrested on Thursday from a tourist bus in the Aurai police station area. The police had also seized a large number of bottles of Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL). The bus was heading towards Sitamarhi.Deputy superintendent of police (town) Ram Naresh Paswan said that a team was deployed after a tip off.“The team, led by station house officer of Ahiapur police station Sunil Kumar Razak set up barricades near Bairia roundabout. Every suspected vehicle was being checked minutely. Meanwhile, the driver of a car, bearing a Haryana registration number tried to flee after seeing the police barricades. Our team chased the car and took four persons including the driver into custody. They were taken to the police station and quizzed,” Paswan said.The police officer claimed they had confessed their association with the smugglers who were arrested from the bus.“They told the interrogating officers that they had come to get their associates out on bail. They also revealed some more facts about the modus operandi of alcohol smuggling in the dry states like Bihar and Gujarat. Some of the influential traders of IMFL from Haryana are running a big racket across the country with political patronage,” Paswan said.The DSP also said that the information provided by the four men are being verified.Meanwhile, a team of Bihar excise arrested Pushpindar Singh Dhariwal from SAS Nagar of Mohali in Punjab on Sunday and brought him to Muzaffarpur on transit remand. He was arrested in connection with two cases pending with the Brahmapura police station in Muzaffarpur and Majhi police station of Saran district.A policeman on condition of anonymity said that Dhariwal has made many startling revelations. “He has confessed that he had sent more than 200 consignments of IMFL to Muzaffarpur since Bihar became a dry state. He has admitted to running a racket with his father and some local associates from Mohali. A strongman from western diara of Gandak in Muzaffarpur district is his partner in the state. Some others from Bihar are also purchasing IMFL from him. All payments are being made either in cash or through net banking. Even bitcoins are being used for illegal transactions.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-police-arrest-bootleggers-associates-from-haryana-in-muzaffarpur-101613389335654.html
15-02-2021||India||18-19 Covid-19 vaccine candidates in pipeline, says Harsh Vardhan||Union health minister Harsh Vardhan said on Monday at least 18-19 vaccine candidates against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) are in the pipeline and in different stages of the clinical trial as he reiterated that the shots which are in the public domain are safe and effective. Vardhan also said the government will be able to vaccinate people above 50 years of age in the next two to three weeks amid an ongoing inoculation drive."About 18-20 vaccine candidates against Covid-19 are in the pipeline and are in preclinical, clinical and advanced stages," Vardhan said during a press briefing.The minister also informed that 80-85% of frontline workers have been inoculated against the coronavirus disease so far even as an inoculation drive is ongoing across the country. India has approved Covaxin, developed by Bharat Biotech and Covishield from the Oxford University-AstraZeneca being manufactured by the Serum Institute of India, for emergency use in the country. He added that India will be supplying Covid-19 vaccines to 20-25 other countries.Also read | IIT Bombay claims Covid-19 survives longer on glass, plastic than cloth or paperHe also said that 188 districts across the country have not reported new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last seven days and no new cases have been reported in 21 districts in 21 days. “It is crucial that people continue to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour which I had called a social vaccine, along with real vaccine,” Vardhan also said during the briefing.India's tally has risen to 10,916,589 with 11,649 new infections and 90 fatalities between Sunday and Monday morning, the health ministry’s updated shows. The death toll increased to 155,732 and there are 139,637 active cases of coronavirus infections in the country, according to the data updated at 8am. The number of people who have recovered from the viral disease surged to 10,621,220, which has pushed the recovery rate to 97.29%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-new-covid-19-cases-in-188-districts-in-the-last-week-union-health-minister-101613389068975.html
15-02-2021||India||Two associates of terror outfits LeT, TuM arrested in Kashmir||Police on Monday said that they arrested two associates of terror outfits during an operation in Budgam.According to the police, the arrested persons were affiliated with Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) and Tehrik-ul-Mujahideen (TuM).A police spokesman said a police team, along with 53 Rashtriya Rifles, arrested two associates of proscribed terror outfits LeT and TuM. Also Read | Army conducts career counselling camp in remote village of J-K’s Rajouri“They have been identified as Sameer Ahmed Ittoo and Ubaid Ameen Mallah of Kulgam. Incriminating materials, including flags, banners and letter pads have been recovered from their possession,” the spokesman said.He said that during the preliminary investigation,the police found that these persons were involved in grenade lobbying incidents in Pulwama and Kulgam districts of south Kashmir, and were also making posters, banners and flags of banned terror organisations on the directions of their handlers for distribution at various locations in central and south Kashmir. “They were also actively involved in recruiting terrorists and overground workers with the aim to carry out terror activities in Budgam. A case under relevant sections has been registered at the Chadoora police station and further investigation has been initiated,” the spokesman added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-associates-of-terror-outfits-let-tum-arrested-in-kashmir-101613389009888.html
15-02-2021||India||33-yr-old woman in Assam hospitalised after acid attack, accused arrested||A 33-year-old woman has been hospitalized in Assam’s Dibrugarh after she was attacked with acid by a man on Sunday evening, police said.The woman was attacked at Amolapatty area in Dibrugarh when she was returning home from a store where she works. The accused has been arrested.“The accused identified as Buddhadeb Das has been nabbed. Preliminary investigations show that both the victim and the accused were known to each other,” said Prateek Thube, superintendent of police, Dibrugarh, said.The accused who is in his 50s had allegedly been pressuring the woman to marry him. But when she turned down his proposal he decided to retaliate. The police said the accused is married and has two childrenThe woman who sustained burn injuries on the left side of her face and left shoulder has been admitted to Assam Medical College Hospital (AMCH). Her condition is stated to be stable.“The nature of the injuries shows that she was attacked with acid. A laboratory test would reveal the exact substance she was attacked with. She is stable at present but we are keeping a tab on her recovery,” said Thube.The woman has not given a statement yet, the officer said.The accused was arrested late Sunday evening. A case has been registered and further investigation is underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/33yrold-woman-in-assam-hospitalised-after-acid-attack-accused-arrested-101613388697077.html
15-02-2021||India||News updates from HT: PM Modi announces ₹2 lakh ex-gratia for Jalgaon truck accident victims and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Jalgaon accident: PM Modi approves ex-gratia of ₹2 lakh each for victims' kinPrime Minister Narendra Modi has approved an ex-gratia amount of ₹200,000 each for the families of the labourers who were killed in a truck accident in Maharashtra’s Jalgaon district. Read moreMark Butcher says Ashwin is a 'fine all-round cricketer'Former England cricketer Mark Butcher praised India off-spinner R Ashwin for his aggressive approach with the bat on Day 3 of the 2nd Test in Chennai. Read moreDia Mirza-Vaibhav Rekhi wedding: Actor poses as 'bride-to-be', shares mehendi picActor Dia Mirza may not be saying it in as many words, but she is all set to tie the knot with Vaibhav Rekhi. Read moreCitroen C5 Aircross SUV first drive review: Comfort food on four wheelsThere is something about French food that brings about a romantic flavour to the taste buds - something classy yet comforting. Much of the same delectable aura is what the Citroen C5 Aircross also brings about to the passenger vehicle segment in India. Read moreNeena Gupta goes walking in style, accessorises track suit with neon fanny packNeena Gupta is ageing like fine wine. The actor who is reversing in age has lately won a lot of accolades for her work. However, that is not all, Gupta is very famous for her fashion choices and her workout routines as well. Read more‘Pawri Hori Hai’ girl vibes to mashup track on her own video. Netizens love itPakistani influencer Dananeer Mobeen became the talk of the town after Yashraj Mukhate of Rasode Me Kaun Tha-fame dropped a fun mashup track featuring one of Mobeen’s clips. Read more‘Their sons guard our borders’: Priyanka Gandhi on PM Modi’s ‘parijeevi’ remarkPriyanka Gandhi said that the Prime Minister insulted and made fun of the protesting farmers by calling them ‘parijeevi’ in Parliament. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-101613386208850.html
15-02-2021||India||Disha Ravi, Nikita Jacob and Shantanu created toolkit, say Delhi Police||Arrested activist Disha Ravi made the toolkit detailing digital support for the farmers’ protest against the three farm laws in collaboration with Nikita Jacob and Shantanu, Delhi Police said on Monday and claimed that Ravi revealed the information while she was questioned in Bengaluru after her arrest.Prem Nath, the joint commissioner of police of the cyber cell, said during a press briefing that Jacob, a lawyer, Shantanu and Ravi had created the document. “The email account created by Shantanu is the owner of this doc and all others are its editors,” He added.He also said that team reached Mumbai and conducted searches at Jacob’s residence on February 11. Information from Jacob’s phone shows that she and Ravi had formed the toolkit and sent it to Swedish activist Greta Thunberg on Telegram app. “The aim was to spread misinformation and disaffection. They also sought people's participation in January 26 violence,” he added.Also read | From opposition in the country to global leaders, all come in support of Disha“On February 4, during a social media monitoring we came across the toolkit which had one portion as - prior action - in which there were instructions on how to start hashtags and tweet storms, and targeting Indian embassies,” he said. “It was seen after January 26 that instructions, as given in toolkit, were followed and during initial probe a warrant was issued from a court against Jacob after incriminating documents were recovered from her iPhone and laptop,” he said.Also read | Who is Disha Ravi? Here’s how the 22-yr-old activist is linked to Greta ThunbergOn January 11, pro-Khalistani Poetic Justice Foundation held a Zoom meeting which was attended by Jacob, Ravi and the group’s founder Mo Dhaliwal with a motive “to spread misinformation and disaffection.”Dhaliwal had contacted Jacob through his colleague Puneet, a Canadian citizen, to create a storm on Twitter ahead of Republic Day, police said on the 'Toolkit' document case related to the ongoing farmers' protest.The senior police officer also said that data was also deleted and that Ravi’s Telegram account shows that many links related to the toolkit were also removed. He said that since Jacob and Shantanu, a Pune-based engineer who is associated with NGO XR Factor, are absconding so a non-bailable warrant has been issued against them.Jacob’s house was searched after due intimation to Mumbai Police and incriminating information was recovered. “She was asked to make herself present but she's absconding,” Nath added.Separate teams have been sent to Maharashtra and Bengaluru as she's still absconding. Jacob has moved an urgent transit anticipatory bail before Bombay High Court. Delhi Police have already arrested activist Disha Ravi in connection with the toolkit case on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/disha-ravi-nikita-jacob-and-shantanu-created-toolkit-say-delhi-police-101613387489674.html
15-02-2021||India||India’s Rustom-2 UAV gets massive upgrade, will soar to 27,000 feet in April||Rustom-2, India’s medium-altitude long-endurance drone being developed by the Defence Research and Development Organisation, is targeted to achieve a huge milestone in April when it will take off from its test range in Karnataka’s Chitradurga to fly for more than 18 hours at a height of over 27,000 feet, people familiar with the development said.Rustom-2, also known as Tapas-BH (Tactical Airborne Platform for Aerial Surveillance-Beyond Horizon 201), successfully completed the last flight test in October last year when it successfully flew for eight hours at an altitude of 16,000 feet.“This will be a huge step,” said a senior government official about the indigenously-developed unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) designed for strategic reconnaissance and surveillance operations. Rustom-1India’s previous efforts to develop military hardware hadn’t been very successful in the past, forcing the country to import more than 60% of its military requirement. India is the world’s third-biggest military spender in the world after the United States and China.The drones, officials said, was one of the areas where India lagged behind and ended up relying on pricey imports from countries such as the USA and Israel.China, which has invested heavily in military equipment over the years, has raced ahead in this sector also. According to the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute (SIPRI), which tracks global arms flows, China has not just built drones for the People’s Liberation Army but also exported 163 large weapons-capable UAVs to 13 countries from 2008 to 2018. It even gave four Wing Loong II armed drones to Pakistan to protect the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor and Gwadar port.The hard push to Rustom-2 is seen in the context of the continuing efforts to indigenously produce cutting-edge military equipment. Last year, the government unveiled plans to ban the import of 101 types of weapons and ammunition over the next five years ranging from artillery guns to conventional submarines and missiles.On Sunday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi formally handed over the indigenous battle tank Arjun Mark 1A to the Indian Army as part of this renewed focus on achieving self-reliance in the defence sector. Less than a fortnight earlier, the Cabinet Committee on Security headed by PM Modi decided to award Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL) a  ₹48,000-crore contract to supply 83 LCA (light combat aircraft) Mk-1A jets to the Indian Air Force.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-tejas-and-arjun-drdo-s-uav-mission-rustom-2-to-go-critical-in-april-101613386629726.html
15-02-2021||India||Own a TV or fridge or 2 wheeler in Karnataka? Surrender BPL cards or face action||The Karnataka government on Monday asked people possessing Below Poverty Line (BPL) ration cards, despite being ineligible on account of owning either a two wheeeler, TV, fridge or over five acres of land, to surrender them before March 31 or face legal action. "There are parameters for possessing a BPL card. They should not have more than five acres of land, motorcycle, TV or fridge. Those who don't qualify on these parameters should return the cards or else we will do it," food and civil supplies minister Umesh Katti said at a press conference in Belagavi. He said anyone earning more than ₹1.20 lakh annually should not use BPL cards and has to return it before March 31. Congress flayed the remarks and party workers staged protests in front of various ration shops in Bengaluru. Party workers also protested in Dharwad, Mysuru and Tumakuru, a Congress leader said. Congress MLA U T Khader said the issue had come up before him when he was the Food and Civil Supplies Minister in the Siddaramaiah government and he had decided not to relax the norms as many poor people would be affected. He opined that when there are offers like interest free loans to purchase all these items, it was obvious that people would buy it. The government is 'anti-poor', he charged and asked them to focus on identifying more beneficiaries instead of 'snatching away' their BPL cards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/own-a-tv-or-fridge-or-2-wheeler-in-karnataka-surrender-bpl-cards-or-face-action-101613385951025.html
15-02-2021||India||UP panchayat polls: Govt issues list of 75 seats under quota system||The Uttar Pradesh government has set the ball rolling for the three-tier panchayat elections by issuing a list of 75 reserved and unreserved posts of zila panchayat chairpersons. It has yet to announce reservation of kshetra panchayat chiefs (block-level heads). Of the 75 posts, 25 have been reserved for women. “A total 16 seats have been reserved for the Scheduled Castes (SCs) including 6 for women; 20 have been reserved for backward classes (BCs), including 7 for women; 27 seats have been put in the unreserved category; and 12 for women in general category,” additional chief secretary, panchayati raj, Manoj Kumar Singh said. Though panchayat polls in UP are not contested on party lines and no party symbols are allotted to candidates, political parties do take interest in them and back candidates. Also Read | BJP to chalk out strategy ahead of panchayat polls in Uttar Pradesh“For villagers, these elections are of prime importance,“ retired panchayati raj official Sudab Chandola pointed out, adding “This is why they are eagerly waiting to find out if their village falls under a reserved category (SC, ST, BC, Woman) or has been left unreserved. The real activities start only after the reservation and seat allotment.” The government has proposed to make final publication of lists of category-wise allotments for all around 58,000 village panchayats on March 14 after which the state election commission will announce the dates for panchayat polls which is a 45-day exercise from the announcement to voting and constitution of new village panchayats. The government has decided on the rotation system of reservation under which, panchayats can be reserved for STs, SCs or BCs on the basis of their population in a block in the descending order but in a way, as far as possible, that a village panchayat is not reserved for the same category as the previous election.The Allahabad high court last month directed the state government to hold overdue village panchayat polls by April 30 and zila and kshera panchayat polls by mid-May. The five-year term of village panchayats in UP ended on December 25, 2020, but the state government deferred polls for six months citing unavoidable circumstances’ as the reason and on December 24, issued an order appointing administrators in place of village pradhans. “Now, the state election commission may announce the poll schedule around March 20 after the government completes reservation exercise by March 14,” a senior official dealing with the issue said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uppanchayat-polls-govt-issues-list-of-75-seats-under-quota-system-101613386609787.html
15-02-2021||India||Jalgaon accident: PM Modi approves ex-gratia of ₹2 lakh each for victims' kin||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has approved an ex-gratia amount of ₹200,000 each for the families of the labourers who were killed in a truck accident in Maharashtra’s Jalgaon district on Sunday night, his office tweeted on Monday. The Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) said in the tweet that ₹50,000 would also be given to those who have sustained serious injuries in the accident.Also Read | PM Modi condoles death of 16 labourers in 'heart-wrenching' truck accident in Maharashtra's Jalgaon“PM @narendramodi has approved an ex-gratia of ₹2 lakh each from Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund for the next of kin of those who have lost their lives due to the tragic truck accident in Jalgaon, Maharashtra. ₹50,000 would be given to those seriously injured,” PMO said in its tweet.PM @narendramodi has approved an ex-gratia of Rs. 2 lakh each from Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund for the next of kin of those who have lost their lives due to the tragic truck accident in Jalgaon, Maharashtra. Rs. 50,000 would be given to those seriously injured.Separately, the office of Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray tweeted that the state government would also provide ₹200,000 each to the families of the victims. “Chief Minister Uddhav Balasaheb Thackeray has announced to provide ₹2 lakh each to the families of the workers from the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund,” the chief minister’s office (CMO) tweeted.जळगाव जिल्ह्यातील किनगाव (ता. यावल) येथे पपई घेऊन जाणारा टेम्पो पलटी होऊन त्यात १५ मजूर मृत्यूमुखी पडले. या मजुरांच्या कुटुंबियांना प्रत्येकी २ लाख रुपये मुख्यमंत्री सहाय्यता निधीतून देण्याचे मुख्यमंत्री उद्धव बाळासाहेब ठाकरे यांनी जाहीर केले.At least 16 labourers were killed and five others sustained injuries when the papaya-laden truck they were travelling in overturned in Jalgaon on Sunday night. All the victims were from Abhoda, Kerhala and Raver of Jalgaon district. According to officials, the vehicle was on its way from Dhule district’s Sakri to Raver when the driver lost control due to potholes on the road, resulting in the accident. The truck, according to a police officer, was taking a steep turn when it overturned and the labourers were crushed under the papayas.Prime Minister Modi had conveyed his condolences over the accident, also sending well wishes for those injured. “Heart-wrenching truck accident in Jalgaon, Maharashtra. Condolences to the bereaved families. May the injured recover at the earliest,” the Prime Minister had tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jalgaon-accident-pm-modi-approves-ex-gratia-of-rs-2-lakh-each-for-victims-kin-101613386095186.html
15-02-2021||India||From opposition in the country to global leaders, all come in support of Disha Ravi||Internet in India is raging against the government's move to arrest a 21-year-old climate activist Disha Ravi for supporting the farmers' protest. Ravi has been accused of editing and sharing the social media “toolkit” document by Swedish environmental activist Greta Thunberg that promoted the protests. The Delhi Police arrested Ravi on Saturday from her home city Bengaluru. The police claimed that she was an editor of the "toolkit Google doc" and " key conspirator" in its formulation and distribution.On Sunday, a Delhi court ordered Ravi in police custody for five days.Leaders from all over the world and across the political spectrum have come together in her support while condemning the government for trying to kill dissent in a democracy. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal took to Twitter against what he said was an attack on democracy.Arrest of 21 yr old Disha Ravi is an unprecedented attack on Democracy. Supporting our farmers is not a crime.Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, P Chidambaram, Shashi Tharoor and many others also tweeted in her support and demanded her immediate release.बोल कि लब आज़ाद हैं तेरेबोल कि सच ज़िंदा है अब तक!वो डरे हैं, देश नहीं!India won’t be silenced. pic.twitter.com/jOXWdXLUzYयदि माउंट कार्मेल कॉलेज की 22 वर्षीया छात्रा और जलवायु कार्यकर्ता दिशा रवि देश के लिए खतरा बन गई है, तो भारत बहुत ही कमजोर बुनियाद पर खड़ा है।
15-02-2021||India||TN CM K Palaniswami says AIADMK always fulfilled poll promises unlike DMK||The ruling AIADMK has fulfilled its promises in election manifestos unlike arch-rival DMK, Tamil Nadu Chief Minister K Palaniswami said here on Monday. The DMK had given a "tall promise" of two acres of land each to landless poor families in its manifesto in 2006, which however, was never implemented, he said at a function here. On the other hand, the AIADMK has fulfilled all its promises from the days of its founder and late chief minister M G Ramachandran, he claimed. Palaniswami was speaking at a function of mass marriage of 123 couples, organised by Municipal Administration Minister S P Velumani here as part of the celebrations of late chief minister J Jayalalithaa's 73rd birth anniversary falling on February 24. Highlighting schemes for the welfare of women, he said the AIADMK government had distributed over Rs.4,200 crore worth marriage assistance in the last 10 years benefiting about 11.8 lakh women. Under the 'thaaliku thangam' (gold for mangalasutra), a pet scheme of Jayalalithaa, it had given 6,086 kg of gold worth Rs.1,796 crore. Similarly under the Amma two-wheeler scheme, the government has given Rs.731 crore as subsidy benefiting 2.98 lakh women in purchase of the vehicles, Palaniswami said. With a conducive climate, more investments were coming to the state, he said, claiming Tamil Nadu stood number one in the country in maintaining law and order. In his address, Deputy Chief Minister O Paneerselvam said the AIADMK rule was successful in getting various development projects from the Centre for Tamil Nadu. With more than ₹one lakh crore tax revenues from Tamil Nadu, the UPA regime at the Centre in which the DMK was a key partner failed to sanction any development projects to the state, he alleged. The marriages were solemnised in Hindu, Islamic and Christian tradition as per the respective religion of the couple who were given 73 wedding gifts including mangalasutra made of one sovereign of gold (8 grams), bed, cot, almirah and other items needed for a family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tn-cm-k-palaniswami-says-aiadmk-always-fulfilled-poll-promises-unlike-dmk-101613384689007.html
15-02-2021||India||Farmers don’t want new laws, why isn’t PM Modi withdrawing them: Priyanka Gandhi||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Monday hit out at Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the ongoing farmers’ agitation against the Centre’s three news farm laws. Gandhi questioned why PM Modi wasn’t withdrawing the laws when farmers themselves have said they didn’t want them and added that farmers had been camping at several border points in Delhi for more than 80 days in harsh weather conditions and were now bracing for the summer season.Addressing a kisan panchayat or a farmers’ meeting in Uttar Pradesh’s Bijnor district, she said, “Farmers sitting at Delhi borders for over 80 days in cold are now bracing themselves for summer. What are they sitting for? PM says laws are for the benefit of farmers. When farmers themselves are saying that they don’t want it then why are you not withdrawing them?”While talking about the prices of sugarcane, Gandhi alleged that the Prime Minister did not give the due amount to the sugarcane farmers. She said that an amount of ₹10,000 crore was outstanding to the sugarcane farmers in UP while the due amount to the farmers growing the crop across India was worth ₹15,000 crore.Farmers sitting at Delhi borders for over 80 days in cold, are now bracing themselves for summer. What are they sitting for? PM says laws are for benefit of farmers. When farmers themselves are saying that they don't want it then why are you not withdrawing them?: Priyanka GV pic.twitter.com/x4mOMgl5JN“Did they increase the price of sugarcane from 2017? You should know that ₹10,000 crore is due to the sugarcane farmers of UP. This outstanding amount is ₹15,000 crore across the nation. He is such a PM that he has not given you your due amount,” the Congress leader said.Further taking a jibe at PM Modi’s official tours and rallies in India and abroad, Gandhi said that he (Modi) never spoke to the 300,000 protesting farmers that have been camping at sites which were near his residence. “You (PM Modi) have travelled across the globe for tours, rallies, purchased big aircraft for commuting, but you never heard the farmers that are camping just 2-3 kilometres away from your residence. In Parliament, you made fun of them (farmers) by calling them Andolan Jeevi,” she said during the kisan panchayat.Also Read| Toolkit case: Activists, environmentalists demand release of Disha RaviEarlier in the day, Gandhi had tweeted in support of climate activist Disha Ravi and demanded her release. “People with guns are afraid of an unarmed girl. Rays of courage and hope are being spread through an unarmed girl #ReleaseDishaRavi #DishaRavi #IndiaBeingSilenced,” she wrote on Twitter.Ravi was arrested by the Delhi Police regarding the toolkit controversy related to the farmers’ movement on social media. A Delhi court on Sunday had remanded her to five days of police custody. Delhi Police had said that the 21-year-old climate activist from Bengaluru was a key conspirator in the document’s formulation and dissemination and had started a WhatsApp group and collaborated to make the toolkit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-don-t-want-new-laws-why-isn-t-pm-modi-withdrawing-them-priyanka-gandhi-101613384970541.html
15-02-2021||India||Army conducts career counselling camp in remote village of J-K's Rajouri||The Indian Army has organised a career counselling camp in the remote Budhal-Kandi belt of Jammu and Kashmir's Rajouri district, a defence spokesperson said here on Monday.The camp was organised at Samote village to educate the local youth on the 'Emergency Medical Technician Course', planned to be conducted under project Himayat in Jammu later this month, he said.The Army has always been at the forefront of guiding the youth and empowering them to grab more employment opportunities and channelising their energy positively, the spokesman said."The counselling camp was aimed at spreading awareness amongst youth from far-flung areas about opportunities available to them under project Himayat and particularly for this course. A total of 34 boys benefited by attending the camp," he added.He said the locals lauded the efforts of the Army for providing employment opportunities for the youth of the remote area."Such noble initiatives of the Army will go a long way in empowering the youth and will further strengthen the existing bond between Army and 'awam (people)'," the spokesman said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-conducts-career-counselling-camp-in-remote-village-of-j-k-s-rajouri-101613383303703.html
15-02-2021||India||Vijay Rupani could be in hospital for a week: Gujarat deputy CM||Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani, who has tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), may have to be in the hospital for a week, his deputy Nitin Patel said on Monday. “He was meeting people daily and also holding public meetings for local elections. He fell unconscious in Vadodara yesterday as he was tired and not well. He was taken to a hospital in Ahmedabad. He tested positive for Covid-19. He might have to remain admitted for a week,” Patel was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Earlier in the day, Patel had said Rupani was fine and that would be kept under observation for 24 hours. The 64-year-old Rupani tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday, a day after he collapsed on a stage while addressing his third rally for upcoming civic polls in the Nizampura area of Vadodara. He was flown to Ahmedabad and admitted to the UN Mehta Hospital in the night.Also watch: Gujarat CM faints on stage during rally, PM Modi calls to check on him"Rupaniji fainted due to tiredness and dehydration. We have done a thorough checkup and all his tests are normal," Dr RK Patel of the UN Mehta Hospital told reporters earlier in the day.The hospital said in a bulletin on Monday that Rupani's sample was collected on Sunday night and sent for RT-PCR test. According to the hospital, the Gujarat chief minster has mild symptoms of the viral disease. "His (Gujarat CM Vijay Rupani's) condition is stable. All his medical check-up reports including EGC and CT scan are normal. There is nothing to worry about. He will be kept at the hospital for 24 hours just for observation," Dr RK Patel said on Sunday.Prime Minister Narendra Modi had inquired about Rupani's health over the phone and asked him to get himself thoroughly checked and to take proper rest, a statement issued by the chief minister's office had said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vijay-rupani-could-be-in-hospital-for-a-week-gujarat-deputy-cm-101613381529911.html
15-02-2021||India||India to commence trials of 160 km air to air missiles this year||In a step that would establish its superiority in air combat over China and Pakistan, India would start testing the Astra Mark 2 beyond visual range air to air missile, which would be capable of taking down enemy aircraft from a range of 160 kilometres.The extended range Astra Mark 2 would give India an edge over its adversaries and would add more lethality to its fighter jets in aerial combat, like the one which happened a day after the Balakot airstrikes on February 26, 2019."The trial for the Astra Mark would be starting in the second half of this year and we are hoping to see the missile fully developed by 2022," government officials told ANI.The next-generation missile is expected to be operational by the next year-end, former Central Air Commander Air Marshal SBP Sinha (Retd) said.The retired officer has been associated with the Astra missile programme for a long time now.The Astra is a beyond visual range air-to-air missile (BVRAAM), which flies over four times the speed of sound at Mach 4.5. Efforts are now on to integrate the over 100 km strike range missile on the indigenous fighter aircraft LCA Tejas.The all-weather day and night capable Astra, which currently has a strike range of around 100-km, will eventually replace the expensive Russian, French and Israeli BVRAAMs that are currently imported to arm IAF fighters.The Indian Air Force and Indian navy have already given orders for 288 Astra Mark-1 Missiles which are already "proven" on the Russian-origin Sukhoi-30MKI fighters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-commence-trials-of-160-km-air-to-air-missiles-this-year-101613381015291.html
15-02-2021||India||3 of a family in Telangana drown in canal in Jagtial, son escapes||A 55-year-old lawyer, his wife and their soon to be wedded daughter drowned when the car they were travelling in fell into an irrigation canal in Telangana’s Jagtial district in the early hours of Monday. The lawyer’s son Jayanth survived the accident, the police said.“Jayanth, who was driving the car (Maruti Swift), apparently lost control over the steering due to poor visibility, as a result of which, the car rammed into the railing on the bridge over the Sriramsagar project canal at Katlekunta village and fell into the waters,” the police said.The deceased were identified as Katkurwar Amarendar Rao, his wife Sirisha (48), and his daughter Shreya (23). Rao’s son, 25-year-old Jayanth, managed to get out of the car and swim to the shore.Jayanth called up the police for help. “By the time we rushed there, it was too late. With the help of cranes, we retrieved the vehicle and found Rao, his wife, and daughter dead inside,” the police said.Also Read: Youths with learning disabilities manage organic outlet in HyderabadThe family was on its way to Joginipalle temple to conduct special prayers before Shreya’s wedding, which was due in a few days.The bodies were sent to Jagtial government hospital for post-mortem.A resident of Housing Board colony in Jagtial town, Amarander Rao was a close relative of local MLA Dr Sanjay and assisted MLA’s father Hanmanth Rao, a senior advocate. Sanjay visited the spot after learning about the accident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-of-a-family-in-telangana-drown-in-canal-in-jagtial-son-escapes-101613380455071.html
15-02-2021||India||15 former Maoist couples marry on Valentine's Day in Chhattisgarh’s Dantewada||Fifteen former Maoist couples in Chhattisgarh who had surrendered over the past year tied the knot at a mass marriage organized by Dantewada police on Valentine’s Day, officials said on Monday.The former Maoists included commanders and lower-rung cadres who were active in the region. Relatives and tribals of the nearby villages attended the function and blessed the couples.“Marriage is a part of the complete rehabilitation package of the state government, as most of those surrendered under ‘Lon Varratu’ campaign were youths. Maoists never allow marriage according to tribal tradition, which they wanted hence we decided to organize this function,” said Superintendent of police, Dantewada, Abhishek Pallava.‘Lon Varratu’ in the local Gondi language means Return Home. Maoists in about 50 hypersensitive villages are being encouraged to surrender under this programme that began in May last year. Till now total 310 Maoists have surrendered under this campaign in Dantewada district, the police said.“I was in love with Kumli when I was with the Maoists. After we surrendered, we decided to marry because it was not possible to do so when I was a Maoist,” said Hukum Manda, one of those who married on Valentine’s Day.“Many couples were in love when they were in Maoist ranks while others developed attraction after surrendering and while working together. The day was chosen as Valentine's Day symbolizes victory of love over violence and fear. It also shows victory of national integration over anti-national forces,” the SP said. Claiming that couples who got married were very happy, the SP said, “The Maoists claim to preserve tribal traditions but on the contrary they kill tribal priests never allow their own cadres to marry as per their traditions.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/15-former-maoist-couples-marry-on-valentine-s-day-in-chhattisgarh-s-dantewada-101613380261376.html
15-02-2021||India||Bombay HC quashes FIR against Sushant Singh Rajput's sister Meetu Singh||The Bombay High Court on Monday partially allowed the petitions filed by the sisters of late Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput seeking to quash the first information report (FIT) against them by the Mumbai Police alleging for sending him medication without a doctor's consultation. The FIR was registered by Bandra Police against Priyanka Singh on September 7, 2020, on the basis of a complaint lodged by Rajput's girlfriend, actor Rhea Chakraborty.Also Read | ‘Sushant Singh Rajput was sober, innocent,’ observes Bombay high court, reserves order on plea by his sistersThe high court quashed the FIR against Meetu Singh but refused to do the same for Priyanka Singh, who will have to face prosecution for allegedly sending him a fabricated prescription, prescribing for him medicines containing psychotropic substances controlled under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985.The court had, last month, reserved its order on the plea filed by Rajput's sisters, observing that he was a "sober, innocent and a very good human being." The bench, comprising Justice SS Shinde and Justice MS Karnik had further said that from Rajput's face, "one could make out that he was innocent." The actor, originally from Patna, was found dead at his flat in Mumbai on June 14, 2020. While the Mumbai Police has declared his death as a case of suicide, the case is currently being investigated by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), as directed by the Supreme Court on August 19 last year.The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), which is conducting a parallel probe into a "drugs racket" in Bollywood, had arrested Chakraborty last September in connection with the case, days after arresting her brother Showik, among others. Both Chakraborty and her brother are currently out on bail.In her complaint against Rajput's sisters, Chakraborty had alleged that Meetu Singh, Priyanka Singh and a doctor from Delhi's Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital were getting drugs for the late actor without any physical consultation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bombay-hc-quashes-fir-against-one-sister-of-sushant-rajput-no-relief-for-other-101613379991430.html
15-02-2021||India||SII’s Adar Poonawalla assures Covid-19 vaccines to Canada would ‘fly out in less than a month’||Serum Institute of India’s (SII’s) owner and chief executive officer Adar Poonawalla on Monday assured Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau that the anti-coronavirus disease vaccine it is manufacturing would “fly out to Canada in less than a month” as the vaccine awaits regulatory approval there.“Dear Hon’ble PM @JustinTrudeau, I thank you for your warm words towards India and it’s vaccine industry. As we await regulatory approvals from Canada, I assure you, @SerumInstIndia will fly out #COVISHIELD to Canada in less than a month; I’m on it!” Poonawalla tweeted on Monday.Dear Hon’ble PM @JustinTrudeau, I thank you for your warm words towards India and it’s vaccine industry. As we await regulatory approvals from Canada, I assure you, @SerumInstIndia will fly out #COVISHIELD to Canada in less than a month; I’m on it!Prime Minister Narendra Modi had assured Covid-19 vaccine supplies sought by Canada in a call with Trudeau. “Was happy to receive a call from my friend @JustinTrudeau. Assured him that India would do its best to facilitate supplies of COVID vaccines sought by Canada. We also agreed to continue collaborating on other important issues like Climate Change and the global economic recovery,” Modi tweeted on February 10.Was happy to receive a call from my friend @JustinTrudeau. Assured him that India would do its best to facilitate supplies of COVID vaccines sought by Canada. We also agreed to continue collaborating on other important issues like Climate Change and the global economic recovery.In response, Trudeau’s official website released a statement saying “Prime Minister Trudeau and Prime Minister Modi spoke about India's significant efforts in promoting vaccine production and supply, which have provided vital support to countries around the world. The two leaders agreed to work together on access to vaccines. The leaders also recognized the need for continued global coordination to respond to the pandemic and to promote recovery.”Today, I had a good discussion with Prime Minister @NarendraModi on many important issues, and we’ve agreed to stay in touch. For a summary of the call, click here: https://t.co/vFGa8lkkQVWhile Covishield awaits regulatory approval in Canada, the country provided emergency use authorisation (EUA) to the vaccines of Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna in late December 2020. On Saturday, Trudeau tweeted “Update on vaccines: We’ll now receive 10.8 million doses of Pfizer’s COVID-19 vaccine between April and June, and we’ll get our entire order of 40 million doses by the end of September.”India’s vaccine delivery is expected to bring some optimism to the ties between the two countries which witnessed friction after Trudeau, in December 2020, conveyed his support to the ongoing farmers’ protest in Delhi. However, India’s external affairs ministry (MEA) spokesperson Anurag Srivastava on Friday said that the Canadian PM “commended efforts of the government of India to choose the path of dialogue as befitting a democracy.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/im-on-it-sii-s-adar-poonawalla-assures-covid-19-vaccine-supply-to-canada-101613379703004.html
15-02-2021||India||Rescuers retrieve bodies of 2 students who drowned in Varasgaon dam near Lavasa||The bodies of two students from a private college in Lavasa who drowned in the backwaters of Varasgaon dam on Sunday were found on Monday afternoon by rescue teams, police said.The two students who drowned while on an outing with their friends were identified as Nihal Uttam Thapa (21) from Shillong, Meghalaya and Shirashit Chandramauli Soran (20), from Chennai police said. Both were second year students pursuing Bachelor in Science at Christ College in Lavasa.“The disaster management team of Mulshi administration helped us in finding the bodies,” said police naik Ravindra Nagtilak of Paud police station.He said the tragedy took place when one of the students began to drown after entering the water. Three others came to his rescue but one of them also drowned with the one they were trying to rescue.“It was their day off yesterday (Sunday) so they came to the dam and one of them, who did not know how to swim well, entered the water and drowned as the water was deep. Three others who were near the water entered the water to save him but as they started drowning too, two of them managed to come out but one of them could not,” Nagtilak said.The parents of Soran have reached Pune while Thapa’s parents are on their way from Shillong. The bodies have been taken to a local government hospital for post mortem.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rescuers-retrieve-bodies-of-2-students-who-drowned-in-varasgaon-dam-near-lavasa-101613379038364.html
15-02-2021||India||Toolkit case | Zoom meet held before Republic Day to create Twitter storm: Report||MO Dhaliwal, the founder of pro-Khalistani Poetic Justice Foundation contacted activist Nikita Jacob through his colleague Puneet, a Canadian citizen, to create a storm on Twitter ahead of Republic Day, police sources revealed on the 'Toolkit' document case related to the ongoing farmers' protest.According to the sources, an investigation into the toolkit conspiracy has revealed the deeper conspiracy associated with the Google document.There was a zoom meeting before Republic Day which was attended by MO Dhaliwal, Nikita and Disha, among others. The motive of the meeting was to create a Twitter storm ahead of Republic Day. They also spoke about the death of a farmer.According to the sources, four days ago Special Cell team went to Nikita Jacob's house and examined her electronic gadgets. Delhi police told her that they would again question her but she is currently not available.A day after Disha Ravi was arrested and sent to five days of police custody the Delhi Police have now issued a non-bailable warrant against activists Nikita Jacob and Shantanu.Disha Ravi, a 21-year-old climate activist was arrested from Bengaluru in connection with the formulation and dissemination of Toolkit document, in the ongoing farmers' protest. She was one of the editors of 'Toolkit' document."Disha Ravi is an editor of the Toolkit Google Document and a key conspirator in document's formulation and dissemination. She started a WhatsApp group and collaborated to make the Toolkit doc. She worked closely with them to draft the Doc," tweeted Delhi Police.According to CyPAD Delhi Police, the editors of the toolkit collaborated with the pro-Khalistani Poetic Justice Foundation to spread disaffection against the Indian State. Ravi was the one who shared the Toolkit Doc with Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg.Ravi later asked Thunberg to remove the main document after its incriminating details accidentally got into the public domain, said Delhi Police.On Sunday, Ravi was presented before a Delhi Court that remanded her five days of police custody. Disha Ravi broke down inside the courtroom and told the judge that she has edited only two lines and she wanted to support the farmers' protest.Earlier, the Delhi Police sent a communication to Google seeking registration details and activity log of the account through which a "toolkit" related to the farmers' protest was created and uploaded on the social media platform.Two e-mail IDs, one Instagram account, and one Uniform Resource Locator (URL) were mentioned in the toolkit and police have asked for details from the respective platforms.The police had registered an FIR against unidentified persons in connection with the creators of the 'toolkit'.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/toolkit-case-zoom-meet-held-before-republic-day-to-create-twitter-storm-report-101613378436262.html
15-02-2021||India||SC to hear Kerala govt's plea against lease of airport on March 8||The Supreme Court will hear the Kerala government's appeal against the Airport Authority of India's (AAI) decision to lease out Thiruvananthapuram International Airport to Adani Enterprises Limited on March 8.A three-judge bench of the Apex Court, headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) Sharad Arvind Bobde and Justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian said, "we will hear the matter on March 8."Kerala government had moved the Apex Court and filed an appeal against the AAI's decision to lease out Thiruvananthapuram International Airport, in the state to Adani Enterprises Ltd.Earlier, the Kerala High Court dismissed the state government's petition challenging the Union government's decision to lease out the right of operation, management, and development of the Thiruvananthapuram international airport to Adani Enterprises Ltd.A Division Bench comprising Justice K Vinod Chandran and Justice CS Dias issued the order observing that it is a policy decision of the Union government and cannot be interfered with.Kerala government submitted that many clauses in the Request for Proposal (RFP) were tailor-made to suit private players. However, the court rejected this contention.According to the State, ''the Assembly had on August 24 unanimously resolved to request the Union government to avoid handing over the operation and management of the Thiruvananthapuram airport to private players and instead consider a Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) formed by the state government.''The Centre had contended that the tender procedure was carried out in a transparent manner and special advantage was given to KSIDC considering the Kerala government's request.The Centre had no other option but to proceed with awarding the lease agreement to Adani Enterprises, the highest bidder, as the State government entity, KSIDC did not fall within parameters of the RFP.The government added that the decision to go for the PPP mode of operation, management and development of airports was taken purely on public interest. It was also a policy decision of the Union government.According to the Centre, the award of the lease to the KSIDC by allowing it to match the bid amount of the highest bidder after the completion of bidding process would have amounted to a violation of the entire bidding process.The Centre said that it had approved the grant of lease/concession of the airport to the highest bidder for 50 years subject to the security clearance from the National Security Agency. In fact, the decision taken by the Centre was in the interest of the airport.Adani enterprises argued that the property acquired and transferred to AAI completely vests with the Authority and therefore neither the State Government nor KSIDC has any locus standi to lay any claim on the basis of the transfer of such property.Answering the wrong contentions taken by some of the petitioners that participation of qualified bidders in the tender process was less, Adani Enterprises pointed out that 25 bidders had registered and 10 bidders submitted 32 bids for various airports.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-to-hear-kerala-govt-s-plea-against-lease-of-airport-on-march-8-101613378508118.html
15-02-2021||India||Toolkit case: Activists, environmentalists demand release of Disha Ravi||Social activists and environmentalists called for immediate release of climate activist Disha Ravi who was arrested in the 'toolkit' document case, asking the government to stop targeting India's youth.Ravi (22) was arrested on Saturday from Bengaluru for allegedly sharing with Greta Thunberg the toolkit related to the farmer's protest against the Centre's three new agriculture laws, police said.The Delhi Police claimed that Ravi was an editor of the "toolkit Google doc" and "key conspirator" in the document's formulation and dissemination.Activists and environmentalists have condemned the arrest.Kavita Krishnan, the secretary of All India Progressive Women's Association, said people like Ravi are India's best hope because they are concerned about not just themselves, but the future generations."We are not behaving like a democracy right now. If we are going to equate protest with conspiracy and organising protests as conspiracy, then you are not a democracy anymore," she said."They should immediately drop this case based upon absolutely flimsy, ridiculous and evil pretext. A toolkit is not sedition, it is not conspiracy, toolkit is for protest," she added.Rights activist Shabnam Hashmi also questioned the basis of Ravi's arrest, saying anybody even doing a local campaign prepares a toolkit."We should look at the prime minister's campaign toolkit. We are crossing the limits of absurdity. We will become a laughing stock internationally," she said.  Sunita Narain, head of the Delhi-based Centre for Science and Environment, also extended her support to the arrested activist."We know #climatechange is an existential threat. World desperately needs the passion and commitment of the youth and their loud and strong voice to shake it to more action #FreeDishaRavi," she tweeted.Nine-year-old climate activist Licypriya Kangujam called it an attempt to silence the voices of young girls and women in the country."This is an attempt to silence the voices of young girls and women in this country. But this will not stop us from fighting for our planet and future," Kangujam tweeted.In a joint statement, more than 50 academics, artists and activists voiced support for Ravi and called her arrest “disturbing,” “illegal in nature" and an "over-reaction of the State”. The statement issued under the banner of 'Coalition for Environmental Justice in India' also called it an attempt to distract the public."It is also becoming increasingly clear that the current actions of the central government are diversionary tactics to distract people from real issues like the ever-rising cost of fuel and essential items, widespread unemployment and distress caused due to the lockdown without a plan, and the alarming state of the environment," it said.An online petition has also been started by the group demanding the immediate release of the climate activist.Environmentalist Vikrant Tongad said the incident will be demotivational for climate activists."We cannot go on the merit of the case as the probe is ongoing, but the incident will be demotivational for climate activists...," he said.  Thunberg, a teen climate activist, had shared the "toolkit" to lend her support to the farmers agitation against the three farm reform laws. In the document, various urgent actions, including creating a Twitter storm and protesting outside Indian embassies, were listed which were needed to be taken to support the farmers protest.A graduate in Bachelor of Business Administration, Ravi is also one of the founding members of a group named 'Fridays For Future India', police added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/toolkit-case-activists-environmentalists-demand-release-of-disha-ravi-101613377789425.html
15-02-2021||India||Govt announces radical changes to mapping policy; 'massive step', tweets PM Modi||The Centre on Monday announced sweeping changes to the country's mapping policy, which it said will benefit Indian companies. The changes have been made in the policy keeping in mind the the government's Atmanirbhar Bharat vision.Announcing this on Twitter, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said the policy change is a massive step in the government's vision to make India self-reliant."Our government has taken a decision that will provide a huge impetus to Digital India. Liberalising policies governing the acquisition and production of geospatial data is a massive step in our vision for an Aatmanirbhar Bharat," he tweeted.Our government has taken a decision that will provide a huge impetus to Digital India. Liberalising policies governing the acquisition and production of geospatial data is a massive step in our vision for an Aatmanirbhar Bharat. #mapmakingsimplified https://t.co/ssbPhAeSp1"The reforms will unlock tremendous opportunities for our country’s start-ups, private sector, public sector and research institutions to drive innovations and build scalable solutions. This will also generate employment and accelerate economic growth," the Prime Minister further said in subsequent tweet.He also said that the country's farmers will benefit by leveraging the potential of geo-spatial and remote sensing data. "These reforms demonstrate our commitment to improving ease of doing business in India by deregulation," PM Modi said in another tweet on the matter.According to radical changes announced by the government, what is readily available globally does not need to be restricted in India and therefore geospatial data that used to be restricted will now be freely available in India, according to Ministry of Science and Technology.The changes also seek to remove unnecessary red tape and obstacles in innovation."The existing regime imposed significant restrictions on the mapping industry - from creation to dissemination of maps, requiring Indian companies to seek licenses, follow a cumbersome system of pre-approvals and permissions. Compliance with these regulatory restrictions has subjected startups in India to unnecessary red tape, hindering Indian innovation in map technologies for decades," Ministry of Science and Technology said in a release."Our corporations and innovators are no longer subject to restrictions nor do they require prior approvals before they collect, generate, prepare, disseminate, store, publish, update digital Geospatial Data and Maps within the territory of India," it added.The ministry also said that the government is looking forward to see India emerge as a mapping power.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-announces-radical-changes-to-mapping-policy-massive-step-tweets-pm-modi-101613378100233.html
15-02-2021||India||ED summons MMRDA commissioner in TopsGrup money laundering case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has issued summons to R A Rajeev, commissioner, Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA), in connection with the money laundering case linked to Rahul Nanda's security services firm, TopsGrup Security Services Limited (TGSSL) and Shiv Sena MLA Pratap Sarnaik.According to ED, TGSSL signed a contract with MMRDA in 2014 according to which there were about 350 to 500 guards which were to be deployed at MMRDA sites on a monthly basis. Out of the same, only 70% of guards were actually deployed. However, the billing was done for all the guards according to contract.The ED had in the past stated in the court that it appears that TopsGrup obtained the contract from MMRDA in collusion with Sarnaik through illegal means by a well thought out strategy. The aim of these illegal maneuvers was to get additional inadmissible benefit by inflating the bills at the cost of MMRDA and illegal cash gratification to Sarnaik for facilitating this scam. Against this active role and criminal conspiracy, Sarnaik used to get 50% profit earned out of the said contract through Amit Chandole, Sarnaik's close aide.The ED now wants to record the statement of the Metropolitan Commissioner in connection with the alleged irregularities involving MMRDA.The MMRDA released a statement on the development on Monday saying, "The matter pertains to the tenders pertaining to Tops Security from 2014-17. The MMRDA chief or Metropolitan Commissioner has been summoned for recording evidence. Since the Metropolitan Commissioner in that period, Urvinder Singh Madan has retired, the current commissioner RA Rajeev will be visiting the ED office on behalf of MMRDA though the case pertains to his predecessor’s tenure."The MMRDA had earlier refuted all the allegations in its statement submitted to the Mumbai police's Economic Offenses Wing (EOW) which is also probing a case against TopsGrup.The MMRDA submitted that alleged irregularities in providing 500 security guards by (Rahul Nanda's) TOPS Grup Security Services Limited (TGSSL) are baseless. In fact there was no strength of 500 at any given time in three shifts in a day.The MMRDA's letter to the EOW states that there was no financial misconduct on its part while awarding contracts to the company for the security services and also making payment for the guards. All these works were done through a tendering process in accordance with the rules.Earlier Sarnaik and his son Vihang were questioned by the ED in the case. Last year the central agency raided various premises of Sarnaik and Tops in Mumbai and Thane.The ED had previously arrested Sarnaik's close associate Amit Chandole and Nanda's company's managing director M Shashidharan.Sarnaik and his family members have already secured relief from the Supreme Court that directed ED to not to take any coercive action against the Sarnaik family.(With inputs from Tanushree Venkatraman)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-summons-mmrda-commissioner-in-topsgrup-money-laundering-case-101613376974027.html
15-02-2021||India||UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath launches Abhyudaya scheme, says it will be guiding light for holistic development||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath inaugurated the Abhyudaya scheme on Monday via video conferencing. The chief minister at the launch emphasized that the scheme will aid holistic development by providing coaching facilities similar to that of Kota and Prayagraj to the interested candidates in other parts of the state who are not able to avail those services."Abhyudaya Yojana is a 'path pradarshak' (guiding light) for holistic development. When about 30,000 competitive exam prospects were stuck in Kota and Prayagraj due to Covid, we decided to have similar coaching facilities in the state," Adityanath said.Under the Abhyudaya scheme, free of cost coaching centres for the preparation of competitive government exams will be provided by the UP government. The coaching institutions are especially aimed at providing assistance to those candidates who are not able to take coaching for the exams due to their financial problems.The free-of-cost coaching institutes will be starting from tomorrow. Students can avail offline coaching and study material too.Also Read | Greta toolkit: Nikita Jacob moves HC for anticipatory bailFree guidance and teaching by senior IAS, IPS and PCS officers will also be provided to the aspirants. The coaching centre will provide every kind of facility from virtual doubt clarifying sessions, interview calls, career counselling to subject matter expertise.The free training centres will be set up in each district and will be operated under the chairmanship of respective Mandalayukta at each divisional headquarter of the state.The chief minister during the inauguration ceremony also said, "Coaching classes begin tomorrow, I want to assure everyone that these classes will help them achieve their goals. In 2020, the scheme was not only appreciated but a special package was also announced in the Union Budget.The state government scheme is aimed at ensuring quality exam preparation for all talented and hard working aspirants coming from diverse backgrounds like rural areas, families of poor income class and marginalized section, who are not able to afford and avail coaching services in private sector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-chief-minister-yogi-adityanath-launches-abhyudaya-scheme-says-it-will-be-guiding-light-for-holistic-development-101613373406420.html
15-02-2021||India||Delhi: Petrol price up 26 paise, diesel by 29 paise||Petrol and diesel prices have gone up in the national capital and stood at ₹88.99 per litre and ₹79.35 per litre, respectively on Monday.As compared to yesterday, the price of petrol has become costlier by 26 paise while diesel price increased by 29 paise.Earlier, during her budget speech, Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had announced the imposition of Agriculture Infrastructure and Development Cess (AIDC) of ₹2.5 per litre on petrol and ₹4 per litre on diesel.The price of liquefied petroleum gas cylinder (14.2 kg domestic cylinder) has also increased by ₹50 per unit yesterday in Delhi.The LPG gas cylinder will cost ₹769 per cylinder in Delhi from today.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-petrol-price-up-26-paise-diesel-by-29-paise-101613376517397.html
15-02-2021||India||Gujarat CM Vijay Rupani tests positive for Covid-19||Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani, who fainted Sunday evening during an election rally in Vadodara, has tested positive for Covid-19 with mild symptoms, an official health bulletin said.Rupani, 64, fainted at a public meeting in Vadodara’s Nizampura area on Sunday evening while delivering a speech. News videos showed that he collapsed while holding the microphone and security personnel immediately prevented him from falling.The chief minister was immediately rushed to the state-run UN Mehta Institute of Cardiology and Research Centre on the New Civil Hospital campus.Also Watch | Gujarat CM faints on stage during rally, PM Modi calls to check on himIn a health bulletin on Monday, Dr RK Patel, Director of the Institute, stated, “The ECG, 2D echo and blood tests of the chief minister were normal last night [Sunday].”An RT-PCR test was conducted and its report Monday morning showed he tested positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19), Dr Patel said.He clarified in the health bulletin that Rupani has “mild symptoms and his condition is stable.” Dr Patel added, “His oxygen saturation, HRCT Thorax, IL-6 and D-Dimer are all normal.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-cm-vijay-rupani-tests-positive-for-covid19-101613376469428.html
15-02-2021||India||6-hour bandh by Congress over rising fuel prices brings Odisha to a halt today||Hundreds of vehicles were stranded on national highways across the state, trains remained stationary and vehicular traffic remained off the road as the Congress in Odisha called a six-hour bandh on Monday between 7am and 1pm to protest rising fuel prices and the farm laws.Led by Congress MLA Suresh Kumar Routray, the party workers also staged rail roko at the Bhubaneswar railway station from 7am while Congress leaders stopped traffic on the roads in the rest of the state. Public transportation came to a grinding halt in Bhubaneswar as Congress workers blocked the national highway NH-16 at Satsang Vihar leading to queuing of trucks, lorries and private vehicles.Also Read | Union minister cautions Odisha over AP holding rural polls in state territoryIn Cuttack, the busy Badambadi bus stand wore a deserted look as the buses stayed off the roads. The Capital Region Urban Transport that operates the fleet of Mo Bus services too suspended operations till 2pm.Educational institutions remained closed across the state due to the bandh. State government employees working in Bhubaneswar, however, reached their respective offices by 9.30am. “Both the Centre and the state government are imposing unreasonable taxes on fuel, leading to a steep hike in their prices which, in turn, has led to an increase in the prices of other essential commodities. During the United Progressive Alliance regime, the prices of petrol and diesel were below ₹70, but now they have reached almost ₹100, even as the prices of crude oil have come down in the international market. Odisha should reduce tax on petrol and diesel in order to give some relief to the people who are already facing hardship due to the pandemic,” said Odisha Pradesh Congress Committee president Niranjan Patnaik.Congress leaders claimed that they are allowing emergency vehicles, including ambulances, milk vans, fire fighting vehicles and wedding party vehicles, to ply.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/6hour-bandh-by-congress-over-rising-fuel-prices-brings-odisha-to-a-halt-today-101613376050906.html
15-02-2021||India||Group of foreign envoys set to visit J&K this week||A group of foreign envoys is scheduled to visit Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) this week and will be meeting top officials and politicians in the Union territory, said people aware of the matter, requesting anonymity.This will be the third visit of envoys from various countries, including European Union, since the revocation of Article 370 in August 2019. Officials privy to the development said that the diplomats could visit Srinagar this week and will also travel to Jammu for a series of meetings.“Yes, we have been told that diplomats are coming this week. The dates haven’t been given to us. It could be in the next few days,” said a senior government officer.Also Read | ‘Many changes made after Pulwama attack’: Inspector General CRPFAuthorities privy to the information said the diplomats will be briefed about the situation by senior Union territory officers, especially after Article 370 was revoked, and the situation along the Line of Control. The delegation will also be meeting some politicians and members of civil society, the newly elected District Development Council chairmen and some panchayat members.This is going to be third visit of foreign envoys in J&K. Last year, envoys travelled to J&K twice. The envoys, including diplomats of European Union, had met government officials, leaders of political parties, panchayat members and some journalists, who briefed the envoys about the situation in Kashmir post the revocation of Article 370. The envoys also travelled to Jammu and met members of civil society and politicians there. However, it is unclear whether, this time, envoys will be allowed to meet the leaders of regional parties, National Conference and Peoples Democratic Party, besides members of Parliament from Kashmir and former chief ministers.On Saturday, Peoples Democratic Party president Mehbooba Mufti had also alleged that she was stopped from visiting the family of Athar Mushtaq, who was killed on December 30, 2020, and was placed under house arrest, terming it normalcy the J&K government wants to showcase to the foreign delegation.Placed under house arrest as usual for trying to visit the family of Athar Mushtaq killed allegedly in a fake encounter. His father was booked under UAPA for demanding his dead body. This the normalcy GOI wants to showcase to the EU delegation visiting Kashmir. pic.twitter.com/xFkcqTGQyV“Placed under house arrest as usual for trying to visit the family of Athar Mushtaq killed allegedly in a fake encounter. His father was booked under UAPA for demanding his dead body. This, the normalcy GOI wants to showcase to the EU delegation visiting Kashmir,” she said in a tweet on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/group-of-foreign-envoys-set-to-visit-j-k-this-week-101613374911138.html
15-02-2021||India||News updates from HT: Priyanka Gandhi demands release of Disha Ravi and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Priyanka Gandhi demands release of Disha RaviBengaluru-based climate activist Disha Ravi’s arrest has led to widespread condemnation from the opposition as Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Monday demanded the release of the 22-year-old. Read more'England are not behind because of the pitch': Mark Butcher feels Chennai Test is 'beyond England'Former batsman Mark Butcher is not a fan of the turning Chepauk surface, but believes that is not the reason England find themselves behind India in the second Test in Chennai. Read moreBombay Begums trailer: Pooja Bhatt, Amruta Subhash are queens and victims of a relentless world. WatchThe first trailer for Netflix' upcoming drama, Bombay Begums is out. Starring Pooja Bhatt in the lead, the show marks her comeback to acting after many years. Read moreMan's proposal to partner after moving to new house may make you say awwIf you spend enough time on social media, chances are you’ve seen quite a few proposal videos. Case in point, this video which shows a man proposing to his partner the day they moved to their new home. Read moreDisha Ravi case: Opposition attacks govt; BJP leader compares activist to KasabA massive row has broken out over the arrest of 22-year-old activist Disha Ravi in the ‘toolkit’ case. Several Congress leaders lashed out at the Modi government and called for the immediate release of the activist. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-priyanka-gandhi-demands-release-of-disha-ravi-101613372429093.html
15-02-2021||India||Journalist Siddique Kappan, arrested last Oct while on way to Hathras, gets 5-day interim bail to meet ailing mother||The Supreme Court on Monday allowed journalist Siddique Kappan, who was arrested while on his way to Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras in October last year, five days’ interim bail to meet his ailing mother in Kerala.He shall visit Kerala under the vigil of armed guards of the UP Police, the top court held and asked him to not meet the public, except relatives, doctors and close family members. The top court has asked the Kerala Police to cooperate with the UP Police in this regard.The court has also restricted him from giving any interview to the media or posting anything on social media.Kappan had requested for bail citing the deteriorating health condition of his mother. His lawyer, Kapil Sibal, told the court that doctors had given up on her condition and said that she may not survive for long.Acting on humanitarian grounds, a three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde allowed Kappan to travel to his home state and report back to the UP Prison by the end of the fifth day.Sibal, who pressed for the bail of the accused after his mother was not in a position to speak to him on a video conferencing call arranged by jail authorities in UP, accepted the conditions on Kappan's behalf.Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the UP government, opposed the bail stating the health ground of Kappan’s mother was being used to circumvent the judicial process. The court, however, decided to step out and take the risk saying, "We are acting on purely humanitarian grounds because of the possible imminent death of his mother."Kappan was arrested by the UP police for his alleged involvement with Popular Front of India (PFI). He was reportedly found with material that was likely to disturb peace and tranquility in the state and instigate violence following the death of a Dalit girl in the Hathras district. The police had alleged that Kappan had nothing to do with journalism as the identity card found from him had expired long back.Kappan, who is the secretary of the Delhi unit of Kerala Union of Working Journalists (KUWJ), along with three other alleged Popular Front of India (PFI) activists, was booked on sedition and other serious charges in Mathura on October 5 last year while they were heading to Hathras where a 19-year old Dalit woman had allegedly been gang-raped and murdered. The journalists’ body had approached the Supreme Court seeking Kappan’s release from jail.Earlier in January, his family members had staged a sit-in protest in front of the Kerala Secretariat in Thiruvananthapuram demanding the intervention of chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan to set him free.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/journalist-siddique-kappan-arrested-last-december-while-on-way-to-up-s-hathras-gets-5-day-interim-bail-to-meet-ailing-mother-101613373432316.html
15-02-2021||India||Priyanka Gandhi demands release of Disha Ravi||Bengaluru-based climate activist Disha Ravi’s arrest has led to widespread condemnation from the opposition as Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Monday demanded the release of the 22-year-old saying that a young unarmed woman has struck fear in the hearts of ‘those who are armed’ in what can be understood as a veiled dig at Delhi Police.“Those who carry guns are now afraid of an unarmed girl, now that unarmed girl is emanating rays of courage,” according to translation of the Congress leader's tweet in Hindi.डरते हैं बंदूकों वाले एक निहत्थी लड़की से फैले हैं हिम्मत के उजाले एक निहत्थी लड़की से#ReleaseDishaRavi #DishaRavi#IndiaBeingSilencedEarlier in the day, chief ministers of Chhattisgarh and Delhi also demanded the release of Ravi who has been arrested for allegedly sharing a ‘toolkit’ which according to Delhi Police had details about protests to be carried out across India over farm laws. The same toolkit was tweeted by Swedish activist Greta Thunberg, but was later deleted after Ravi told Thunberg about the incriminating details, according to police.कायरता और फासीवाद उनकी विरासत है।#ReleaseDishaRaviArrest of 21 yr old Disha Ravi is an unprecedented attack on Democracy. Supporting our farmers is not a crime.Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal harshly criticised the arrest of the young woman from Bengaluru and said that her arrest is an ‘unprecedented’ attack on democracy. In a tweet, the Delhi CM said that supporting the agitating farmers is not a crime. “Arrest of 21-year-old Disha Ravi is an unprecedented attack on democracy. Supporting our farmers is not a crime,” the Delhi CM said on Twitter.His party colleague and Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Singh also condemned the arrest of Disha Ravi saying that the government chooses to punish those who "side with the truth" and "demand equal rights". He also said that the government chooses to term these acts as "against the interest of the nation".तानाशाही का अंत जल्द होगा पर्यावरण की रक्षा के लिये संघर्ष करने वाली #DishaRavi ने किसानो के हक़ में आवाज़ उठाई तो उसे देश द्रोही बना दिया गया, मोदी राज में सच बोलना और हक़ बोलना “देश द्रोह” है। pic.twitter.com/WvbsBkEPvyChhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel in a tweet condemned Ravi’s arrest and said that it is an act of cowardice on behalf of the government. He also used one of the trending hashtags on Twitter to support the demand for the climate activist’s release.Kapil Sibal, another Congress leader, said that India is strong enough to not get rattled by a tweet but the arrest of a 22-year-old woman shows that the government is ‘paranoid’. Sibal on Monday tweeted, “Is the state so paranoid that a 22-year-old is a national security threat ?”Disha Ravi Climate Activist Is the state so weak that a tweet threatens its security ?Is the state so paranoid that a 22 year is a national security threat ?Is the state so intolerant that it cannot tolerate youth standing with farmers ?Is this the “badlav” Modiji wanted?Bharatiya Kisan Union's Ugrahan wing too condemned the protests saying that police has chosen to attack those who want benefit of farmers.Haryana minister Anil Vij chose to condemn calls for Disha’s release saying that it does not matter who the person is but "anti-national" mindset should be "uprooted" from anyone’s mind at a very early stage.देश विरोध का बीज जिसके भी दिमाग में हो उसका समूल नाश कर देना चाहिए फिर चाहे वह #दिशा_रवि हो यां कोई और ।Delhi Police believes that Disha Ravi is one the key conspirators who played an important role in disseminating the ‘toolkit’ that led to the violence on Republic Day. Delhi Police on February 4 had begun investigation ‘against unknown persons’ for fomenting ‘disaffection and ill-will against the Indian government’ under the guise of supporting farmers’ unions in connection with the violence on January 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/priyanka-gandhi-demands-release-of-disha-ravi-101613373086755.html
15-02-2021||India||Greta toolkit: After Disha Ravi, arrest warrants against Nikita Jacob, Shantanu||A day after the arrest of climate activist Disha Ravi from Bengaluru for her alleged involvement in dissemination of the protest toolkit in support of the farmers’ agitation, Delhi Police on Monday issued non-bailable warrants against two others, Mumbai-based lawyer Nikita Jacob and Shantanu. Their names are said to have surfaced in Ravi’s questioning after she was sent to a five-day police remand by a city court on Sunday.Senior police officers of the Delhi Police’s special cell confirmed that while non-bailable warrants have been issued, the involvement of the duo in the case relating to the toolkit is yet to be disclosed. Police are also checking their backgrounds to find out if they are affiliated with any group.Ravi has been accused of sharing the toolkit with Greta Thunberg and later asking her to remove it. She has been booked for sedition, promoting enmity and criminal conspiracy, among other offences.Also Read | Disha Ravi shared Google toolkit with Greta Thunberg, say Delhi PoliceDelhi Police on February 4 registered a first information report (FIR) under sections 124A (sedition), 153 (wantonly giving provocation with intent to cause riot), 153A (promoting enmity between different groups) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) after Thunberg tweeted the toolkit while expressing her support for the farmers’ protest in India.The police have claimed that the toolkit was put together by a “pro-Khalistani group” named Poetic Justice Foundation. Thunberg later deleted her tweet. The FIR was registered against the people who created and spread the toolkit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/greta-toolkit-after-disha-ravi-arrest-warrants-against-nikita-jacob-shantanu-101613372630851.html
15-02-2021||India||Uttarakhand glacier burst: 2 more bodies recovered; 151 people still missing||Rescue workers involved in the search and rescue operation in the 1.7 km tunnel at NTPC’s hydel power project in Tapovan have recovered two more bodies, taking the total death toll in Uttarakhand glacier burst to 53 till Monday morning. So far, eight bodies of about 35 missing workers have been recovered from the tunnel. About 151 of the total 204 people reported missing have yet to be traced. Chamoli district magistrate Swati Bhadauria said, “One of the two bodies was recovered at around 1.30 am and the other on Monday at around 7am, taking the death toll to 53.” Also Read | ‘No new lake, it’s part of bigger one that caused Chamoli disaster’: Experts“Out of the total bodies recovered, 25 have been identified. The search and rescue operation is still on inside the tunnel where workers have succeeded in clearing muck up to 140 metres,” she said. A team of another rescue workers is clearing sludge from another small underground tunnel beneath the 1.7km tunnel where about 30 of 35 workers are feared to trapped. The rescue workers had vertically drilled at the required depth of 12.7 metres to reach the smaller underground tunnel on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-glacier-burst-2-more-bodies-recovered-151-people-still-missing-101613371129248.html
15-02-2021||India||Amit Shah said BJP has to win in Nepal and Sri Lanka also: Tripura CM||Tripura chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb has sparked yet another controversy after claiming at a recent party event that Union home minister Amit Shah had spoken about plans to expand BJP's influence in Nepal and Sri Lanka a few years ago.Deb claimed that when Amit Shah was the party president, he had shared plans of having BJP governments in Nepal and Sri Lanka during a meeting in Tripura."We were talking at a meeting in the State Guest House, when Ajay Jamwal (BJP's zonal secretary for northeast) said that BJP had come to power in several states. In reply, Amit Shah said that Nepal and Sri Lanka are still left. We have to win there as well," Deb said in a party programme in Agartala recently, a video of which has been widely shared.Deb claimed that the BJP has become the largest party in the world due to Amit Shah's leadership."The communists claimed that their party was the world's largest party. But Amit Shah made the BJP the largest party in the world," the chief minister said.Deb also claimed that the BJP would form government in Kerala and would change the trend of the Left and Congress coming to power alternately every five years. Like Kerala, BJP would form a government in Tamil Nadu.“In Kerala, there will be no CPM and Congress because Narendra Modi and Amit Shah have already reached there. BJP will come to power in Tamil Nadu too. There will be no government other than BJP," he said.Deb’s reference to Nepal and Sri Lanka drew a sharp response from the Congress which accused the BJP of interfering in the internal affairs of other countries.“This attitude of BJP is anti-national and anti-democratic. We respect our neighbouring countries and there is no justification to interfere in the internal affairs of these countries," vice-president of Tripura’s Congress unit Tapas De said on Monday.Under fire over Deb’s comment, the BJP said it has been spreading Indian culture and philosophy in different countries.BJP spokesperson Nabendu Bhattacharya said, "Our work to spread our Indian culture and philosophy in different countries apart from India started many days back. Contesting elections is not our prime agenda. We focus on winning the hearts of people of different countries."CPI(M) veteran leader and former party secretary Bijan Dhar declined to comment on Deb’s statement.Biplab Deb is no stranger to controversy. In April 2018 he said the internet existed in the days of the Mahabharata.In August that year, he also claimed that ducks raise oxygen level in water bodies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-said-bjp-has-to-win-in-nepal-and-sri-lanka-also-tripura-cm-101613370197794.html
15-02-2021||India||Yuvraj Singh booked for casteist remarks during Instagram live session||Eight months after Yuvraj Singh apologised for the “unintentional remarks” made during an Instagram live video, a first information report (FIR) was filed against the former India cricketer for his alleged casteist remarks against cricketer Yuzvendra Chahal in Haryana’s Hisar district on Sunday.Singh was booked on Sunday under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and the SC/ST Act. The FIR was registered 8 months after a Hisar-based activist–advocate filed a complaint against the player for allegedly using the casteist remark during a live session with India opener Rohit Sharma in June 2020.Vikas Kumar, a spokesperson of the Hisar Police, confirmed that the police registered an FIR on Sunday.Yuvraj had reportedly made a remark during his Instagram live with Rohit Sharma in June 2020 on leg spinner Yuzvendra Chahal . The remark was apparently “misunderstood” and was widely shared on social media, triggering outrage.Also Read | Comeback: BCCI keeps Yuvraj waitingSingh later came out with an apology over the incident. Saying that he never believed in disparity, he apologised on Twitter for “unintentionally hurting sentiments” of people belonging to a particular caste.pic.twitter.com/pnA2FMVDXDHis post read, “This is to clarify I have never believed in any kind of disparity, be it on the lines of caste, colour, creed or gender. I have given and continue to spend my life for the welfare of people. I believe in the dignity of life and respect each individual without exception.”“I understand that while I was having a conversation with my friends, I was misunderstood, which was unwarranted. However, as a responsible Indian I want to say that if I have unintentionally hurt anybody’s sentiments or feelings, I would like to express apology for the same.”he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yuvraj-singh-booked-for-casteist-slur-during-instagram-live-session-101613370408886.html
15-02-2021||India||‘If A messages B…’: Supreme Court tells WhatsApp to give undertaking on data privacy||The Supreme Court on Monday asked WhatsApp to give an undertaking on oath that private data of users is not being shared with any third person. The court has issued notices to the Centre, WhatsApp and Facebook over the privacy row and listed the matter after four weeks.A three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde said, "People have grave concern about loss of privacy. You (WhatsApp) may be a two trillion or three trillion company, but people value their privacy more than your money. It's our duty to protect people's privacy."The bench said, "You make a statement on oath. It can't be done by sharing data of Indians.... What we have heard and read in the media, people think if A messages to B the whole circuit to whom the message goes is known to Facebook/WhatsApp."The order came on an application by Karmanya Singh Sareen who had in 2016 moved the apex against the then privacy policy announced by WhatsApp, according to which it shared data with Facebook after the latter took it over. This matter is pending before a Constitution Bench.This application challenged the recent privacy rule introduced by WhatsApp which required Indian WhatsApp users to agree to their new rule allowing the company to share data with third party companies.Advocate Shyam Divan, representing the petitioner argued that Indian users are being treated unfairly as WhatsApp has a different privacy regime for European users.The application required the top court to order WhatsApp not to go ahead with its new policy till the Constitution Bench decides on it or the Centre comes up with Data Protection law.Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, appearing for WhatsApp, denied that any private sensitive data is being shared and pointed out that the issue was pending before the Delhi High Court .Solicitor General Tushar Mehta informed the apex court, "Regardless of whether there is a law or not, right to privacy is part of fundamental rights. They (WhatsApp) must protect the right to privacy. They must not share data."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/give-undertaking-that-users-private-data-not-being-shared-supreme-court-tells-whatsapp-101613370033202.html
15-02-2021||India||Disha Ravi’s arrest in 'toolkit case' unprecedented attack on democracy: Arvind Kejriwal||A day after Bengaluru-based activist Disha Ravi was sent to police custody for five days over her involvement in the ‘toolkit case’, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday said that her arrest is an unprecedented attack on democracy.“Arrest of 21 yr old Disha Ravi is an unprecedented attack on Democracy. Supporting our farmers is not a crime,” Kejriwal wrote on Twitter.Follow latest updates on farm stir here Ravi was arrested by the cyber crime unit of the Delhi Police from Bengaluru on Saturday as she was one of the editors of a toolkit that according to the police “indicates a copycat execution of a conspiracy” behind the January 26 violence during the farmers' tractor rally in the national capital.The police have alleged that Ravi shared the toolkit with Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg, who posted it on Twitter, and later deleted it on the directions of the former after “its incriminating details accidentally got into the public domain”.Also Read: Who is Disha Ravi? Here’s how the 22-yr-old activist is linked to Greta Thunberg“In this process, they all collaborated with pro-Khalistani Poetic Justice Foundation to spread disaffection against the Indian State,” the Delhi Police’s official handle posted on the microblogging site.A court on Sunday remanded the Bengaluru activist to five day in police custody. The police had sought a remand of seven days to “unearth her connections with the Sikhs for Justice”. Ravi, who has been named as a "key conspirator" by the police in the document's formulation and dissemination, broke down during the hearing and refuted allegations of conspiring against the government. She said she edited “just two lines” as she supported the farmers.The police are also on the lookout for two more suspects - Shantanu and Nikita - in the toolkit case and are conducting raids in Mumbai and several other places, Hindustan Times' sister publication Livehindustan reported.Ravi is associated with a climate activist group called Fridays for Future, which was started by Greta Thunberg in 2018. The Bengaluru-based activist started the India chapter of FFF in 2019 and heads the organisation in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/disha-ravi-s-arrest-in-toolkit-case-unprecedented-attack-on-democracy-arvind-kejriwal-101613365664438.html
15-02-2021||India||Sikkim: Primary schools reopen as new academic session starts today||Primary sections of schools in Sikkim reopened on Monday after a gap of 11 months. The schools had been closed in March 2020 due to the Covid-19 pandemic.The state education department on Sunday issued a circular saying that classes from lower kindergarten to Class 5 in all government, government-aided and private schools will reopen from February 15.In Sikkim, classes from 9 to 12 had resumed from October 19 last year while classes from 6 to 8 had restarted from November 27.“Students would be allowed strictly with the consent of the parents and guardians on a voluntary basis. Schools at primary level will operate with 50% capacity, or alternatively on odd-even roll number basis,” said Bhim Thatal, director of elementary education and samagra shiksha in Sikkim.Also Read | 200,000 Kashmir trout ova dispatched to SikkimSchools with few students may operate with 100% capacity if there is sufficient space to maintain the social distancing norms. Schools will operate till 2pm on every working day. Hostel facilities may also be resumed following Covid-19 guidelines.Though the countrywide lockdown because of the Covid-19 pandemic was imposed from March 24, 2020, schools and educational in Sikkim declared closure of all educational institutes from March 18, 2020.“The reopening of primary schools coincides with the beginning of the academic session at all levels,” he added.As schools were closed for several months, the state government has done away with the two-month-long winter vacation to cover the syllabus. Normally in Sikkim, the new academic session begins after the winter vacation.Sikkim in east India has a population of almost 650,000. There are around 125,000 students, including 85,000 in government schools.Till date, the state has registered 135 Covid-19 deaths. The total number of confirmed Covid-19 cases till Saturday was 6,116. Of this total, 5,826 persons have already recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sikkim-primary-schools-reopen-as-new-academic-session-starts-today-101613365608943.html
15-02-2021||India||15 surrendered Naxals tie the knot at ceremony organised by Dantewada police on Valentine's Day||The Police organised a mass wedding on Valentine's Day in which 15 surrendered Naxals tied the knot in Chattisgarh's Dantewada.The Dantewada Superintendent of Police (SP) Abhishek Pallava told ANI, "Today 15 surrendered Naxalites tied the knot here. Among them, there were many who fell in love while they were a part of the Naxal outfit but they were not permitted to marry.""The Dantewada police has been carrying out a 'Ghar Wapasi' campaign under which around 300 Naxalites surrendered within a time span of six months. The wedding ceremony was performed according to the culture and tradition of their tribe," stated the Dantewada SP.He further added that the surrendered Naxals happily participated in the wedding ceremony."On Valentine's Day today, this ceremony has marked the win of love over violence and fear," he added.A Naxal tying the knot at the ceremony told ANI, "We fell in love a year ago while both of us were working as Naxals. I had a reward of ₹5 lakh on my head while she had a reward of ₹1 lakh. We wanted to marry back then but we were prohibited from doing so. We were also not allowed to have children, therefore, they conducted sterilisation."Another Naxal, who had joined a Naxal outfit in 2019 and had surrendered recently, expressed happiness at getting married and said that he is thankful to the police for organising the mass wedding ceremony.The ceremony was held in the presence of the family members of the surrendered Naxals, police officers, soldiers, and other surrendered Naxals, the Dantewada police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/15-surrendered-naxals-tie-the-knot-at-ceremony-organised-by-dantewada-police-on-valentine-s-day-101613364578609.html
15-02-2021||India||UP trains MLAs for paperless House proceedings||Following in the footsteps of the Union government, the Uttar Pradesh government plans to present a paperless budget for 2021-22. The state has already held a three-day training programme for legislators which concluded on Sunday. The training was to prepare the MLAs for the assembly session beginning February 18.Legislative council chairman Manvendra Singh and deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma inaugurated and concluded the last day training session. Speaking on the occasion, Singh said, “We all know that technology is the way to progress. The more technical knowledge we have, the smoother our progress will be.” Also Read | Yogi Adityanath to launch ‘Abhyudaya’ scheme today: All you need to knowLauding the efforts of chief minister Yogi Adityanath, he said, “The chief minister has made commendable efforts for paperless Cabinet meetings and so all ministers were trained to operate the gadget. Now, all the legislators will participate in the budget session with tablets and iPads. It will make Uttar Pradesh the first state in the country to table a paperless budget.” Sharma said, “Several members are already using computers, laptops, iPads...They were trained in how to receive information, save it, make comments and forward the information when required.” Principal secretary, parliamentary affairs, JP Singh, principal secretary, legislative council, Rajesh Singh, and principal secretary, legislative assembly, Pradeep Dubey conducted the training programme with the support of National Informatics Centre experts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-trains-mlas-for-paperless-house-proceedings-101613364892427.html
15-02-2021||India||Gujarat CM Rupani to be kept under observation for 24 hours, says officials||The test reports of Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani, who had fainted during a rally in Vadodara, are normal, but he would be kept under observation in a hospital here for 24 hours, officials said on Monday.On Sunday, Rupani, 64, fainted on stage while addressing a rally in Nizampura area of Vadodara for the upcoming civic polls in the state, following which he was flown to Ahmedabad and admitted in a hospital."Rupaniji fainted due to tiredness and dehydration. We have done a thorough checkup and all his tests are normal," Dr R K Patel from the U N Mehta Hospital, where the chief minister is admitted, told reporters.State Deputy Chief Minister Nitin Patel said though Rupani is fine, he would be kept under observation for 24 hours.On Sunday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi enquired about Rupani's health over phone, a statement issued by the Chief Minister's Office said.Modi told Rupani to get himself thoroughly checked and to take proper rest, it said.This was Rupani's third political rally during the day in Vadodara.Elections to six municipal corporations, including Vadodara, will be held on February 21, while those for various other municipalities, districts and taluka panchayats will be held on February 28.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-cm-rupani-to-be-kept-under-observation-for-24-hours-says-officials-101613364482966.html
15-02-2021||India||After Uttarakhand glacier burst, plantation drive conducted in J-K's Udhampur||Drawing lessons from the recent Uttarakhand glacier burst incident, a plantation drive was conducted at Prowa Jagir watershed area in Jammu and Kashmir's Udhampur by the Integrated Water Management Programme (IWMP) to encourage plantation of trees and prevention of soil erosion.This drive was conducted on Sunday to avert Uttarakhand-like tragedy and control soil erosion taking place in the hilly areas. Under the drive, IWMP officials interacted with the locals and distributed mulberry and horticulture plants.Sapna Kotwal project manager, IWMP Udhampur said that plantation drive was conducted to spread awareness among the people on the issue of deforestation and soil erosion."Today we had a plantation drive for Prowa Jagir. Earlier, also we had a similar drive where we created ponds in association with MGNREGA. This is a very dry prone area. This area is heading towards soil erosion due to deforestation. While the plantation drive, we are spreading awareness among the people as this will also help with job creation and employment," Kotwal told ANI.Sandook Singh, one of the locals who participated in the drive said that by planting trees they will be able to save groundwater."We are doing a very fine job regarding integrated water management. Ponds are being made and trees are being planted. In the time to come, this drive will prove to be very useful. This is a hill area, by planting trees we will be able to save groundwater and prevent soil erosion," said Singh.Reiterating what Sapna Kotwal said, another participant stressed that the villages are trying to avert Uttarakhand-like disaster."In the forest area, we have planted 3,500 trees. We have seen how in Uttarakhand the landslides is taking place due to soil erosion. So we are trying to prevent that. We want the level of oxygen to increase along with the level of groundwater," said one of the participants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-uttarakhand-glacier-burst-plantation-drive-conducted-in-j-k-s-udhampur-101613363884450.html
15-02-2021||India||'Development of only two': Rahul Gandhi takes a dig at govt on LPG price hike||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday lashed out at the central government after a fresh hike in the price of liquified petroleum gas (LPG) domestic cylinder in Delhi. Accusing the Modi-led BJP government of aiding his crony capitalist friends by exploiting the public, he said that by looting the public, it's the development of only "two".Gandhi tweeted in Hindi while referring to a news headline about the LPG price hike.जनता से लूट,सिर्फ़ ‘दो’ का विकास।#LPGPriceHike pic.twitter.com/GHdNcQJFYqThis is the third time since December that the price of LPG domestic cylinders has been hiked. The cylinder, used for domestic cooking in households, will cost ₹769 per 14.2 kg in the national capital from 12 am on Monday after it has increased ₹50 per unit.This is the second time the price of the LPG cylinder has increased in the month of February. The price of non-subsidised LPG cylinders were increased by ₹25 in metropolitan cities on February 4 by the oil marketing companies.After the previous rise in prices, the price of non-subsidised LPG cylinders went up from ₹644 to ₹694.Also Read | Six-hour bandh in Odisha today, educational institutes closedThis hike in the cooking gas cylinder prices comes in the backdrop of skyrocketing petrol and diesel prices. Petrol cost has gone up and stands at ₹88.99 per litre, while diesel cost ₹79.35 per litre in Delhi, on Monday.Price of petrol has increased 26 paise and the price of diesel has increased by 29 paise today - the seventh consecutive hike in as many days.Gandhi has opposed the government on the new farmers' laws as well. During his address to farmers at Kisan Mahapanchayats in Rajasthan, he had repeatedly said that the government's sole purpose is to aid capitalist friends of the Prime Minister. He had said when the national economy suffered and plunged, the wealth of the "two" increased exponentially. For farm laws he had said that the Modi government through these laws wants to sell the agriculture sector to the big corporates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/development-of-only-two-rahul-gandhi-takes-a-dig-at-govt-on-lpg-price-hike-101613359311968.html
15-02-2021||India||PM Modi condoles death of 16 labourers in 'heart-wrenching' truck accident in Maharashtra's Jalgaon||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday mourned the loss of lives in a road accident in Maharashtra. He also prayed for early recovery of those injured."Heart-wrenching truck accident in Jalgaon, Maharashtra. Condolences to the bereaved families. May the injured recover at the earliest," the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) said in a tweet.Heart-wrenching truck accident in Jalgaon, Maharashtra. Condolences to the bereaved families. May the injured recover at the earliest: PM @narendramodiAs many as 16 people lost their lives, and five others were injured after after the truck in which they were travelling overturned in Jalgaon district on Sunday night.All 16 who were killed in the accident were labourers from Abhoda, Kerhala and Raver in the district and were travelling in a papaya-laden truck.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-condoles-death-of-16-labourers-killed-in-heart-wrenching-truck-accident-in-maharashtra-s-jalgaon-101613363226498.html
15-02-2021||India||Maharashtra reports 4,092 new Covid-19 cases, 40 deaths in 24 hours||Maharashtra recorded 4,092 new coronavirus cases on Sunday, which took the state's infection tally to 20,64,278, while 40 deaths pushed the toll to 51,529, the health department said.A total of 1,355 patients were discharged during the day. With this, the recovery count in the state grew to 19,75,603, it said.There are 35,965 active cases in the state at present.Currently, 1,74,243 patients are in home quarantine and 1,747 others in institutional quarantine, the department said in a statement.Maharashtra's Covid-19 recovery rate is 95.7 per cent, while the fatality rate is 2.5 per cent, it added.With 48,782 tests conducted on Sunday, the overall test count of the state went up to 1,53,21,608.Mumbai city reported 645 cases on Sunday and four deaths. With this, the case count in the country's financial capital mounted to 3,14,076, including 11,419 deaths.In Mumbai division, which comprises Mumbai city and its satellite towns, the number of positive cases rose by 1,141 to 7,04,561, while 13 deaths took the fatality count to 19,685.Nashik city reported 122 new cases, Pune city 353, Pimpri Chinchwad 138.Aurangabad city and Hingoli did not report any new case. Aurangabad division did not report any death due to the infection.In Kolhapur division, only one death was reported in Ratnagiri.Except four deaths in Beed, no fatality was reported anywhere else in Latur division.Amravati city registered 430 new cases, Yavatmal 105, Nagpur city 437.The coronavirus figures in Maharashtra are as follows: Total case count 20,64,278, death toll 51,529, recoveries 19,75,603, active cases 35,965, tests conducted on Sunday 48,782, total test count 1,53,21,608.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-reports-4-092-new-covid-19-cases-40-deaths-in-24-hours-101613362507998.html
15-02-2021||India||Toolkit case: Disha Ravi first to be arrested, many others involved, say Delhi Police||The Delhi Police have said that Disha Ravi is one of the editors of a toolkit which is at the centre of a controversy after being posted by Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg in connection with farmers' protest.Producing Ravi before a magistrate, the police said that this was the first arrest in the case. The police also told the court that the activist had allegedly edited the "toolkit" on February 3 and many other people are involved in the matter.The court sent the 22-year-old climate change activist to five-day police custody. She was arrested on Saturday.According to Hindustan Times' sister publication Livehindustan, the police are looking for two more suspects - Shantanu and Nikita Jacob - and raids are being carried out in Mumbai and other places. News agency ANI cited Delhi Police to report on Monday that non-bailable warrants have been issued against them.Meanwhile, Disha Ravi broke down during the hearing on Sunday and said that the had only edited two lines in the document tweeted by Thunberg and that she wanted to support the farmers' protest. The police, however, rubbished her claim and said her role was more than editing two lines.The police have named Ravi a "key conspirator" in the document's formulation and dissemination. They also claimed that Ravi and others "collaborated with pro-Khalistani Poetic Justice Foundation to spread disaffection against the Indian State"."She was the one who shared the toolkit doc with Greta Thunberg," the Delhi Police said in a tweet.Thunberg had shared the "toolkit" - a Google document - earlier this month to lend her support to the farmers' agitation against the three farm reform laws. In the document, various urgent actions, including creating a Twitter storm and protesting outside Indian embassies, were listed which were needed to be taken to support the farmers' protest.Last week, the Delhi Police had sent a communication to Google seeking registration details and activity log of the account through which the "toolkit" was created and uploaded on the social media platform.Two e-mail IDs, one Instagram account, and one Uniform Resource Locator (URL) were mentioned in the toolkit and police have asked for details from the respective platforms.The police had registered an FIR against unidentified persons in connection with the creators of the "toolkit'.The ministry of external affairs (MEA) had hit out this month at "sensationalist social media hashtags and comments" by celebrities following posts from Thunberg and pop singer Rihanna, who also tweeted in support of the farmer protests, which have been going on near Delhi since November 26 last year.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/toolkit-case-disha-ravi-first-to-be-arrested-many-others-involved-say-delhi-police-101613362012050.html
15-02-2021||India||FASTags must from midnight today: Here’s all you need to know||FASTags, which facilitate electronic payment of fee at toll plazas, have been made mandatory from February 15 midnight and vehicles not fitted with them will be charged double the toll at electronic toll plazas across the country. Here’s all you need to know about them:• Beginning February 15 midnight, all lanes in the toll plazas on National Highways shall be declared FASTag lanes.• This has been done to promote fee payment through digital mode, reduce waiting time and fuel consumption, and provide for a seamless passage through the fee plazas. • Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari said on Sunday that the government has already extended the FASTag registration deadline a few times and would not be extend it any further.• The ministry of road transport and highways had mandated FASTag for M&N categories of motor vehicles with effect from January 1 this year; it was extended to February 15 later.Also Read | NHAI does away with requirement of maintaining minimum amount in FASTag Wallet• Category ‘M’ is for a motor vehicle with at least four wheels used for carrying passengers.• Category ‘N’ stands for a motor vehicle with at least four wheels used for carrying goods though it may also carry people. • FASTag is a sticker attached to the windshield of your vehicle. It has a radio-frequency identification barcode that is linked to registration details of the vehicle.• It is valid for five years.• On passing a toll plaza, FASTag readers installed there will automatically deduct the required toll.• To buy a FASTag, you need to furnish vehicle registration documents, and personal ID for the KYC process. If you do it through the bank, you only need your registration certificate.• It can be bought via banks or e-commerce channels. It can also be purchased at some toll plazas across the country. • If you have bought it through a bank, the e-commerce partner would create an e-wallet. All you need to do is add money to the e-wallet. Likewise, for mobile payment banks, you can recharge using your debit/credit card, UPI or other payment options.• Those exempt from paying toll don’t need to use FASTag either. This includes judges, bureaucrats, lawmakers, ministers and emergency service workers.• As per the ministry, FASTag registration has reached 90%; only 10% people still need to get it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fastags-must-from-midnight-today-here-s-all-you-need-to-know-101613362428627.html
15-02-2021||India||India records 11,649 Covid-19 new cases, daily toll remains below 100||With 11,649 new cases reported in the last 24 hours, India’s tally of Covid-19 infections reached 10,916,589, according to figures released by the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Monday. The toll from the disease has gone up to 155,732 with 90 deaths recorded since Sunday. The fatalities due to the coronavirus disease have remained below 100 for the past three days and this is the ninth time this month.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 hereThe figures come in line with a declining trend in the number of daily new deaths since October 1, 2020. India’s case fatality rate currently stands at 1.43%, which the health ministry said, is one of the lowest in the world. As many as 17 states did not report any news deaths in the past 24 hours.The country’s active caseload, however, witnessed a rise of 2,070 cases since yesterday. The active Covid-19 cases in the country now stand at 139,637, which accounts for 1.26% of the total positive cases.Maharashtra on Sunday recorded over 4,000 cases after a gap of 39 days following which health experts have sounded an alarm stating that administration will have to increase tracing and testing and the citizens need to strictly adhere to Covid-appropriate behaviour. They also suggested that areas where cases have witnessed an upward trend should be put on “red alert”.Meanwhile, as many as 10,621,220 people have so far recovered from the coronavirus disease across the country with 9,489 recoveries reported in the last 24 hours.The encouraging numbers come as the world’s largest Covid-19 vaccination drive is underway and so far at total of 82,85,295 health and frontline workers have been administered the shot. As many as 23,628 healthcare workers have also received a second dose of vaccine. “The country is witnessing a progressive increase in vaccination day by day,” the health ministry said in statement on Sunday.Also, according to the Indian Council of Medical Research(ICMR), 20,67,16,634 samples have been tested up to February 14 with 4,86,122 samples being tested on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-11-649-covid-19-new-cases-daily-toll-remains-below-100-101613362020677.html
15-02-2021||India||Personnel Ministry asks central govt workers to attend office on working days||All central government employees have been asked to attend office on working days, according to a Personnel Ministry order.The decision comes amid a significant decline in the number of active COVID-19 cases in the country, including in the national capital.However, all officers and staff residing in containment zones shall be exempted from coming to office till their containment zone is de-notified, the statement said.Until now, officers of the level of Under Secretary and above were only attending office due to the coronavirus-induced restrictions imposed in March.The Centre had in May asked 50 percent of its employees below the level of Deputy Secretary to work from their offices, while implementing different time slots in its effort to further check the spread of the coronavirus.The officers/staff shall follow staggered timings to avoid over-crowding in offices/workplaces as decided by the heads of department, it said.“The government servants at all levels are to attend office on all working days without any exemption to any category of employees,” said the order issued late Saturday to all the central government departments.Biometric attendance shall continue to be suspended until further orders, it said.The officers and staff who are residing in the containment zone shall work from home and shall be available on telephone and electronic means of communications at all times, it said.Meetings, as far as possible, may continue to be conducted with video-conferencing and personal meetings with visitors, unless absolutely necessary in public interest, are to be avoided, the order said.The Personnel Ministry, in another order, said that “all departmental canteens may be opened”.According to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Sunday, the COVID-19 active caseload remains below 1.5 lakh.In Delhi, the active case tally on Saturday dropped to 1,041 from 1,053 the previous day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/personnel-ministry-asks-central-govt-workers-to-attend-office-on-working-days-101613360850356.html
15-02-2021||India||Who is Disha Ravi? Here’s how the 22-yr-old activist is linked to Greta Thunberg||The Delhi Police have arrested 22-year-old climate activist Disha Ravi for allegedly sharing the toolkit related to the farmers’ protests against Centre’s agricultural laws on social media. Ravi was arrested by the cyber crime unit of Delhi Police from her home in North Bengaluru on Saturday.The police have alleged that Ravi was the one who shared the toolkit document with Swedish environmental activist Greta Thunberg and that she is a key conspirator in the formulation and dissemination of the document that “indicates a copycat execution of a conspiracy behind the January 26 violence.” The Delhi Police said in a tweet, “She started WhatsApp Group & collaborated to make the Toolkit doc. She worked closely with them to draft the Doc.”Another tweet said, “In this process, they all collaborated with pro Khalistani Poetic Justice Foundation to spread disaffection against the Indian State.”Watch | Disha Ravi case: Opposition attacks govt; BJP leader compares activist to KasabThey added that Ravi later asked Greta to remove the main document after its incriminating details accidentally got into the public domain. “This is many times more than the 2 lines editing that she claims,” the Delhi Police wrote on Twitter.Who is Disha Ravi? How is she associated with Greta Thunberg?She is a 22-year graduate from Mount Carmel College in Bengaluru. She is part of a climate activist group called Fridays for Future, which was started by Greta Thunberg in 2018. Ravi started the India wing of Fridays For Future in 2019 and heads the organisation in the country.The activist had also coordinated various campaigns across India on climate change. She also organised protests in Bengaluru on climate issues and wrote in different media across the world on adverse impacts of climate change.What motivated Ravi?Her motivation to become a climate activist came from watching her grandparents, who are farmers and struggle with the effects of climate change, she said in an interview to Auto Report Africa in 2020.“She was very vocal about her views on climate change and the issues she felt about strongly,” a friend of Ravi told HT.What has Disha Ravi been booked for?Ravi has been booked for sedition, promoting enmity and criminal conspiracy over her alleged involvement in the 'toolkit' being investigated by the Delhi Police. A court on Sunday remanded the activist to five days in police custody.What is a toolkit?A toolkit is a social media document which explains an issue and action plans.Greta Thunberg had tweeted it while she extended her support to the ongoing farmers' protest. The ministry of electronics and information technology had earlier told Twitter that the toolkit was proof that a strong social media campaign was being planned outside India and Twitter was one of its platforms for mobilisation.Support pours in for Disha RaviThe Samyukta Kisan Morcha, former environment minister Jairam Ramesh and several activists from across the country on Sunday criticised the arrest of the 22-year-old climate activist.The Coalition for Environmental Justice in India called the Delhi Police's action "sinister" as there is no disclosure about her whereabouts. It released a statement signed by at least 78 activists from across the country which said the police's action "can be termed extra-judicial abduction".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/who-is-disha-ravi-here-s-how-the-22-yr-old-activist-is-linked-to-greta-thunberg-101613360074562.html
15-02-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Farm laws protests affect traffic at Delhi's borders and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Farmers’ protest: Key Delhi borders shut, traffic divertedDelhi’s borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh remained closed at multiple points on Monday as the ongoing farmers’ agitation entered its 82nd day on Monday. Read more here.Dacoits gun down passenger in bus robbery in JharkhandThe robbery occurred between 3.30 am and 4 am while the bus was on the way to Biharsharif, Bihar from Kolkata. Read more here. Opinion: Delhi must take the long view on Dhaka The relationship is robust, thanks to Sheikh Hasina. But to rely only on the skills of one leader may not be enough. Read more here. India vs England: 'This Chennai pitch is unacceptable at Test match level,' says Mark WaughThe 2nd day of the Test between the two teams saw the surface assisting spinners in troubling the batsmen. Read more here. When Randhir Kapoor spoke about separation with Babita, denied need for divorce: 'I don’t intend to get married again'On Randhir Kapoor's birthday, let us look at his long endearing friendship with wife Babita. Read more here. Watch: Gujarat CM faints on stage during rally, PM Modi calls to check on him||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-farm-laws-protests-affect-traffic-at-delhis-101613358398473.html
15-02-2021||India||Yogi Adityanath to launch 'Abhyudaya' scheme today: All you need to know||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath will on Monday launch the Abhyudaya scheme to start free-of-cost coaching centres in the state. The event is likely to begin at 10 am.The scheme aims to provide assistance to all such students who want to prepare for these exams but are unable to do due to their financial status.The coaching centres will be first set up at the divisional level and then at the district level in the second phase.Here's everything you need to know about the Abhudaya scheme:*Adityanath had announced the launch of the scheme on January 24, the statehood day of Uttar Pradesh. "The coaching centres will give a new platform to youths and motivate them to scale new heights," he had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yogi-adityanath-to-launch-abhyudaya-scheme-today-all-you-need-to-know-101613356984338.html
15-02-2021||India||Dense fog reported from Punjab; rainfall likely in Uttarakhand||Dense to very dense fog was recorded at many places in Punjab on Monday. There was shallow fog in Delhi.Visibility was less than 25 m at Amritsar, Patiala and Ambala; less than 200 m at Ganganagar and Nalia; less than 500 m in Delhi (Safdarjung), Bareilly and Kailashahar.Under the influence of a feeble Western Disturbance, isolated rainfall/snowfall is likely over Uttarakhand during February 14 to 17.Also Read | Minimum temperature dips at several places across KashmirDue to the influence of a trough in the lower level easterlies; light to moderate rainfall with thunderstorm and lightning is likely over Vidarbha, Chhattisgarh and Marathwada during February 17 to 18 and scattered rainfall over southern parts of Madhya Pradesh, Jharkhand, Odisha and Madhya Maharashtra during February 16 to 28. Hailstorms are also likely over some parts of Vidarbha on February 17 and 18 and over Chhattisgarh on February 17.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dense-fog-reported-from-punjab-rainfall-likely-in-uttarakhand-101613356907965.html
15-02-2021||India||Congress calls for bandh in Odisha over rising fuels prices, educational institutes closed||The Congress has given a call for Odisha bandh (shutdown) on Monday to protest against the rising fuel prices. The bandh will remain in place for six hours - from 7 am to 1 pm.The state government has closed all the schools, colleges and universities across Odisha for the safety of students. The technical institutes and industrial training centres will also not open their premises, School and Mass Education Minister SR Dash said on Sunday.The schools had reopened in Odisha on January 8, after a gap of nine months.The security too has been tightened across the state in view of the bandh. The state government has asked all its employees to reach office before 9.30 am, news agency PTI reported.All the buses will remain off the roads till the time the shutdown continues, the Odisha Bus Owners Association said.The president of the Odisha unit of the Congress, Niranjan Patnaik, had said on Sunday that all the essential services, movements of patients and marriage parties will be kept out of the purview of the shutdown.He also lashed out at the central government for rising prices of petrol and diesel accusing it of "imposing unreasonable taxes". Patnaik said that prices of essential commodities have shot up due to the spiralling fuel costs.Meanwhile, the prices of petrol and diesel increased for seventh consecutive day on Monday. Petrol price was increased by 26 paise per litre and diesel by 29 paise, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers.This pushed retail rates, which differ from state to state depending on incidence of local sales tax and freight charges, to fresh high.After the latest round of hike, petrol is retailing at ₹88.99 a litre and diesel soared to ₹79.35 in the national capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-calls-for-bandh-in-odisha-over-rising-fuels-prices-101613354773920.html
15-02-2021||India||Delhi police arrest 3 for duping CM Kejriwal's daughter in e-commerce fraud||Three people are arrested by Delhi Police for duping Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal's daughter, a source told ANI on Sunday."Three accused named Sajid, Kapil, and Manvendra have been arrested for duping Arvind Kejriwal's daughter. One main accused is absconding who used to make fake accounts on e-commerce sites," said the source.Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal's daughter was duped of ₹34,000 on February 7 while she was selling a second-hand sofa online.According to the Delhi police's earlier statement, a case of cheating was registered at the Civil Lines Police Station."The person, who posted himself as a customer, asked her to scan a bar code after sending a small amount on her account. And when she scanned the bar code, the money debited from her account in two installments--first ₹20,000 and then ₹14,000," police had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-police-arrest-3-for-duping-cm-kejriwal-s-daughter-in-e-commerce-fraud-101613354799070.html
15-02-2021||India||Pangong Tso disengagement accord reduces military friction at Naku La||The impact of the disengagement by the Indian Army and the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) of China on Pangong Tso has apparently led to an easing of tensions on Naku La, which saw friction and a face-off between the two militaries since May 2020. Situated south-west of the Kanchenjunga peak, the over 14,000-feet-high pass in north Sikkim had seen fisticuffs between the two armies on May 9, 2020, and as late as January 20, 2021, with injuries to troopers on both sides.While the Narendra Modi government is tight-lipped about Naku La, Hindustan Times, after talking to top military commanders and diplomats, has learnt that the just like the Pangong Tso disengagement, the easing of tensions on Naku La has been dictated by the highest levels in Beijing with a renewed effort to build trust and normalise relations. The decision-making authority in the PLA’s case is the Central Military Commission headed by President Xi Jinping, who is also the commander-in-chief of China’s defence forces.“The speed at which the PLA has moved its troops beyond Finger 8 on the north bank of Pangong Tso towards Srijap plains and beyond as well as withdrawal of no less than 220 Chinese light tanks from south banks of Pangong Tso clearly shows that the instructions have come from the highest level in Beijing,” said a former army chief. It is understood that Chinese disengagement is more or less complete on the north bank and the exercise on south banks is to move from the lake to the Kailash Range.According to a top Indian diplomat, Beijing’s decision to disengage from Pangong Tso starting on February 10 was not because its military positions were not tenable but to stop the downward spiral in bilateral relations since former Western Theatre Commander, General Zhao Zongqi, went on aggressive mode at Pangong Tso last May. “China had invested a lot in removing the 1962 conflict from Indian memory by making deliberate efforts to improve bilateral relations. All this went for a toss last May and a new generation of Indians born in the new millennium has again witnessed the perfidy of PLA and mistrust with China. Perhaps the disengagement is part of an effort to stem the rapid slide in bilateral ties,” said a senior official.According to senior military officers, Indian Army commanders raised the question of severe mistrust with their PLA counterparts, citing the continued friction at Naku La while the Pangong Tso disengagement agreement was reached on February 10. It is learnt that just to prove that the PLA was committed to genuine disengagement with the Indian Army, a battalion commander sought a meeting with his Indian counterpart at Naku La on the same day, assuring no further transgression from the Chinese side.In the past six years, PLA patrols have tended to come down the ridge past the Indian perception of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in the Naku La area as a result of which there have been physical face-offs. Although the Chinese base is well behind the ridge line, the PLA in the past has made an effort to cross Naku La and reach a wall constructed by local Indian graziers.“The face-off around Naku La has been a new development of past six years and any easing of tension bodes well for bilateral ties. Reports indicate that the PLA has gone back to its permanent base, a template used in disengagement in Galwan and Pangong Tso,” said the former army chief cited above.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pangong-tso-disengagement-accord-reduces-military-friction-at-naku-la-101613338412066.html
15-02-2021||India||FASTag becomes mandatory from Feb 15 midnight: All you need to know||The government has made it mandatory for all four-wheeled vehicles across the country to have FASTags starting February 15 midnight. The ministry of road transport and highways has decided that all lanes in the fee plazas on national highways shall be declared as ‘FASTag lane of the fee plaza,’ according to a statement.Any vehicle not fitted with FASTag or vehicle without valid, functional FASTag entering into the FASTag lane of the fee plaza will be charged double the toll at electronic toll plazas, according to NH Fee Rules 2008.Here’s everything you need to know as FASTag becomes mandatory from tonight*FASTag, which was first introduced in 2016, has been made compulsory to promote fee payment through digital mode, reduce waiting time and fuel consumption, and provide for a seamless passage through the fee plazas.*The ministry of road transport and highways had mandated fitment of FASTag in M&N categories of motor vehicles with effect from January 1, 2021.*What are categories M and N? - Category ‘M’ stands for a motor vehicle with at least four wheels used for carrying passengers while category ‘N’ stands for a motor vehicle with at least four wheels used for carrying goods, which may also carry persons in addition to goods.*How it works? - FASTag uses radio-frequency identification (RFID), which enables automatic deduction of toll charges at NHAI toll plazas. The tag must be linked with the motorists’ adequately funded prepaid or savings or current account. After the tag account gets active, the motorists can affix the tag on the windscreen of their vehicles. It enables them to drive through toll plazas, without having to stop to pay.*No deadline extension- Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari has made it clear that the deadline for implementation of FASTag would not be extended further, and the vehicle owners should immediately adopt the e-payment facility. “The government had extended the FASTag registration date limit two-three times before and it would not be extended further. Now, everybody should immediately buy FASTags,” he said on Sunday.*Gadkari told reporters that FASTag registration has gone up to 90% on some routes and only 10% people are left. FASTag is also available on toll nakas and people should purchase and use it for seamless traffic, he said at the Nagpur airport.*Complaints- Some motorists on Maharashtra’s Sion-Panvel highway have complained that despite having balance in their accounts, they were not able to pay the toll and end up paying cash while a few others said that even as they make the payment through FASTag, the process takes a longer time, resulting in traffic snarls on the busy highway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fastag-becomes-mandatory-from-feb-15-midnight-everything-you-need-to-know-101613353345884.html
15-02-2021||India||Support pours in for Disha Ravi across quarters after arrest||Farmer unions grouping Samyukta Kisan Morcha, former environment minister Jairam Ramesh and activists from across the country on Sunday criticised the arrest of climate activist Disha Ravi in connection with the probe into the ‘toolkit’, a document, related to the ongoing farmers protest against the three farm laws that seek to deregulate the agricultural trade.Delhi Police’s cyber crime unit arrested 22-year-old Ravi on Saturday night from her house in North Bengaluru. She has been booked for sedition, promoting enmity and criminal conspiracy, among other offences. A Delhi court on Sunday sent her to five days in police custody.“Samyukt Kisan Morcha condemns the arrest of young climate change activist Disha Ravi, who stood in support of the farmers. We also demand her immediate unconditional release,” said farmer leader Darshan Pal in a statement on Sunday.A statement, signed by at least 78 activists, academics and individuals from across the country, said, “Young environmental activists, that the country should be proud of, are the latest victims of the Centre’s continuing efforts to delegitimize the ongoing farmers’ protest and the nationwide solidarity it has generated. Disha has reportedly been picked up for sharing an advocacy toolkit inviting solidarity with the farmers’ protests outside Delhi, which was shared by noted teen climate change activist Greta Thunberg.”“Delhi Police’s actions are all the more sinister because the 21-year old was taken to Delhi from Bengaluru with no disclosure about her whereabouts, not even to her parents, an action that can be termed extra-judicial abduction,” read the statement signed by Ashish Kothari, Kalpavrish, Pune; Kavita Krishnan, AIPWA; Amit Kumar, Delhi Solidarity Group, New Delhi and Dunu Roy, Hazards Centre, New Delhi among others.Former environment minister Jairam Ramesh also criticised action against Ravi. “Completely atrocious! This is unwarranted harassment and intimidation. I express my full solidarity with Disha Ravi,” he tweeted.Ravi, a graduate from Mount Carmel college, is part of a climate activist organisation, Fridays For Future, started by Thunberg, a few years ago, to promote action against climate change across the world in 2018.She started FFF in India in 2019 and heads the organization in India. She also coordinated various campaigns across India on climate change. She also organised a protests in Bengaluru on climate issues and wrote in different media across the world on adverse impacts of climate change.“She was very vocal about her views on climate change and the issues she felt about strongly,” said a friend of Ravi, who was not willing to be named.In an interview to Auto Report Africa in 2020, Ravi claimed that her motivation to become a climate activist stemmed from watching her grandparents, who are farmers, struggle with the effects of climate change.The arrest of Ravi comes in the backdrop of a crackdown on those associated with violence during a tractor rally taken out farmers in Delhi on Republic Day. The rally, which was supposed to travel through pre-approved routes, descended into chaos after farmers on tractors broke police barricades and entered central Delhi, where they clashed with police and damaged public property.Some groups also reached Red Fort where they clashed with security personnel, damaged property and unfurled flags at the ramparts of the fort.At least 394 police personnel and 10 farmers sustained injuries during the clashes. One farmer died in the protests after his tractor overturned after ramming into a police barricade at ITO.The Delhi police on February 4 registered an FIR for sedition, promoting hatred among groups and criminal conspiracy under the Indian Penal Code (IPC) after the Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg tweeted the ‘toolkit’ while expressing her support to the farmers protest in India.Meanwhile, students in Bengaluru held a symbolic protest in support of Ravi on Sunday.In a video circulated on social media on Sunday, a protester was seen handing over saplings to a police officer and asked how she was allowed to arrest by Delhi police without informing the local police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/support-pours-in-for-disha-ravi-across-quarters-after-arrest-101613342317896.html
15-02-2021||India||As Budget Session’s first half records near-zero Covid cases, House hopes better attendance||The first half of the budget session of Parliament showed signs of normalcy return on the health front. Covid-19 cases in parliament, among lawmakers and officials, dropped to near-zero — an encouraging trend for the two Houses.According to officials involved in the management of Covid-19 in Parliament, as many as 4,700 reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests, known as the gold standard for diagnosis of the viral disease, were conducted on MPs, officials, media and security personnel before the session started on January 29.“Out of the 4,700 tests, only three MPs tested positive. All others results were negative,” an official said, requesting anonymity.Read more: ‘Highly productive’, says Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla as first phase of Budget Session endsThe results, officials added, were in sync with a sharp drop in number of active cases in India. The country reported only 13,082 new positive cases on January 29, the day the budget session started, a steep fall from 86,508 new cases on September 23 when the monsoon session was cut short by eight days. The first half of the budget session ended on Tuesday.Apart from 888 lawmakers in the two Houses, Parliament has more than 4,000 officials and staff. It also houses a large force of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) to enforce security. Since mid-January, a large number of construction workers have also been present in the complex for building the new parliament house.Read more: Budget session: 99% of allotted time usedMore MPs felt safe enough to attend House proceedings and join meetings of various parliamentary committees. The House panels were plagued by low attendance for a large part of 2020 as many MPs, who live outside Delhi, were reluctant to fly down to the national capital amid soaring a surge in Covid-19 cases.Officials added that in the past few months, attendance in parliamentary panel meetings had improved vastly from last year For l lack of quorum, many meetings were cancelled at the last minute, resulting in loss of time and public money.The next half of the session is scheduled to start from March 8 and officials added that another round of RT-CPR tests would be conducted before it starts. They also added that health safety protocols, including social distancing, dispersed seating arrangements and mandatory use of masks shall continue until the union health ministry officially declares that the pandemic is over.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-budget-session-s-first-half-records-near-zero-covid-cases-house-hopes-better-attendance-101613341670990.html
15-02-2021||India||PM dedicates ₹6k-cr Kochi petrochemical complex to country||Prime Minister Narendra Modi dedicated to the nation on Sunday the Rs6000 crore petrochemical complex of oil major Bharat Petroleum and Ro-Ro vessels of Inland Waterways at Willingdon Islands in Kochi, asserting that these projects will fuel the country’s growth.On a brief visit to the poll-bound state, the Prime Minister also inaugurated the International Cruise Terminal “Sagarika” at Cochin Port; Marine Engineering Training Institute, Vigyana Sagar, Cochin Shipyard Limited and laid the foundation stone of Reconstruction of South Coal Berth at Cochin Port. Elections in the state are due in April-May this year.Addressing a public meeting in Kochi, the PM said actions of today will shape the country’s growth trajectory in years to come. “Our people have shown that with right opportunities they can do wonders. Let’s keep working towards creating more opportunities. Together, we will create an Aatmanirbar Bharat,” he said.The PM also hailed the support of the country’s citizens in fight against Covid-19 pandemic. “The last one -year the country faced enough challenges. Powered by 130 crore Indians, our fight against the Covid has been spirited. The whole globe is watching us now,” he said.He further exhorted start-ups to come up with innovative projects to boost domestic tourism.The PM also reached out to the Indian diaspora in the Gulf, particularly a large number of Keralites working there, saying that: “India is proud of its diaspora in the Gulf. During my visit to some of the countries like Saudi Arabia, Qatar and UAE I had meal with them and interacted to know their problems.”Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, governor Arif Mohamad Khan, petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan and his deputy Mansukh Mandaviya and Minister of State for external affairs V Muraleedharan also attended the meet.Speaking at the occasion, Vijayan said, “This is a happy occasion for us Keralites. A handful of projects are coming to life in our state today. While some are being dedicated to the nation, the foundation stone is being laid for others. Both state and central government are working together in all these projects.”Meanwhile, security agencies foiled an attempt of the Democratic Youth Federation of India, ruling CPI(M) youth wing, activists to release black balloons to protest recurring fuel price hike.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-dedicates-rs-6k-cr-kochi-petrochemical-complex-to-country-101613341294331.html
15-02-2021||India||Small convoys, new SOPs: How Pulwama changed CRPF tactic||Two years since Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) suicide bomber Adil Ahmad Dar rammed an explosive-laden car into a bus transporting Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) troopers on the national highway in Pulwama, killing 40 men, a lot has changed in terms of convoy movement and the way troops secure their camps in the Kashmir valley.Immediately after the deadly attack, which pushed India and Pakistan to the brink of war, the CRPF decided to overhaul its standard operating procedure (SOP) for convoys moving on the highways.Instead of moving in large convoys, like the one on February 14, 2019 with 78 vehicles, it was decided that personnel will move in smaller contingents with a maximum of 40 vehicles. A Superintendent of Police rank officer started commandeering the convoys and troops were ordered to strictly adhere to the “passenger manifest discipline” for each vehicle in the convoy.Read more: On second anniversary of Pulwama attack, JK police recover 7 kg IED in JammuFresh trainings, new SOPs, control of civilian traffic and use of bulletproof bunkers, drones and CCTVs; these are some of the strategic changes which the Central Reserve Police Force has made in these two years to avoid a repeat of the devastating 2019 Lethpora Pulwama attack, IG CRPF Deepak Ratan said on Sunday on the second anniversary of the attack. CRPF inspector general Deepak Ratan said that the force had made many changes in these two years.“There has been a change in our SOP and our equipment have also improved,” he said. Training has been modified keeping mind the contingencies that can crop up in Jammu and Kashmir. “ll of them have been kept in mind so that whenever terrorists strike they will get a befitting response,” he said.The IG said that the road opening parties (ROP) which would provide security to the highway have been given new training coupled with new SOPs.“It was done to prevent and stop the incidents (like Pulwama), the way a civilian vehicle filled with explosives had struck our convoy causing heavy damages. That is why the traffic on road during convoy movement is controlled, convoy limit has also been contained,” he said.Read more: 2 years of Pulwama attack: Ministers, other leaders pay tribute to CRPF soldiers“CCTVs have been installed at many points on the highway, drones are also being used. The movement of our vehicles generally takes places in bulletproof bunkers. Enough precautions as well as equipment have been installed to avoid such a type of incident,” he said.Since the attack, the majority of vehicles used for convoy movements have been upgraded to withstand bullets and low-intensity improvised explosive devices (IEDs). The ROPs (road opening parties), which are placed before the convoy moves on the highway, have been strengthened and trained for early warning mechanisms in identifying suspects who could attack the moving vehicles. Subsequently, there is better coordination between central intelligence agencies, Jammu and Kashmir police and the army on possible terror threats, people familiar with the developments said. Read more: The lessons from Pulwama | HT EditorialA major decision taken after the Pulwama attack was to restrict the movement of civilian vehicles on the highway when the convoys of security forces are on the move. The government has also allowed all personnel to take a flight to Srinagar from either Jammu or Delhi; air courier service for the central paramilitary forces has been increased by adding flights from Delhi to Srinagar via Jammu and back.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/small-convoys-new-sops-how-pulwama-changed-crpf-tactic-101613340987001.html
15-02-2021||India||Cops announce ₹1 lakh reward for info on Sidhana in R-Day probe||The Delhi Police on Sunday announced a cash reward of ₹1 lakh for any information that may lead to the arrest of gangster-turned-activist Lakha Sidhana, who is wanted for his alleged role in the violence that unfolded during the farmers’ tractor rally in the national capital on January 26.The Delhi police are conducting search operations to arrest Sidhana across Punjab, Haryana as well as the National Capital Region.Police are also looking into Sidhana’s connections with actor Deep Sidhu who was arrested earlier from Karnal in Haryana last week by a Delhi olice team.A senior police officer, who wished not to be named, confirmed that ₹1 lakh reward was announced for Sidhana on Sunday.Sidhana’s role in the January 26 violence surfaced after he released a video on social media demanding Sidhu to be reased. Sidhu was also carrying a cash reward of Rs1 lakh on his arrest.Police suspect that like Sidhu, Sidhana is also switching locations between Punjab and Haryana. Multiple teams of Delhi police’s crime branch and special cell are raiding possible hideouts to arrest Sidhana, officials said.On January 26, thousands of protesting farmers stormed Delhi that led to violent clashes between the security forces and farmers. A group of farmers also stormed the Red Fort on the day, and hosted religious flags there. More than 500 police personnel were injured in the clashes on Republic Day.The Delhi police have so far arrested at least 143 persons in 40 cases registered at different police stations related to the violence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cops-announce-rs-1-lakh-reward-for-info-on-sidhana-in-r-day-probe-101613339249723.html
15-02-2021||India||Travel racket busted: Cops nab 59 for forging visas, passports||The police have arrested 59 persons in an operation launched in September last year to crack down on a racket that helped people travel abroad illegally on fake papers such as passports and visas, senior officers said on Sunday.Deputy commissioner of police (Delhi airport) Rajeev Ranjan said a special drive was launched last year after immigration officials confronted an increasing number of passengers who were deported from other countries for travelling on illegal documents.In 2020, 107 cases were registered and 134 passengers arrested in such instances. All of these were travelling through Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International Airport, the DCP said. This year, the police have registered 23 such cases and arrested 28 passengers. These passengers were caught by immigration officials at IGI airport and were later handed over to the police.Most of such passengers were from Punjab, Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh, said a police officer, who was a part of the operation, based on the scrutiny of the travel papers and the questioning of the suspects. The officer said many of these did not match the profile and requirements to travel to their destination countries and therefore could not obtain a visa or a passport through legal channels. Many of these were caught on their arrival in India after being deported from the destination country for holding improper or fake visas or doctored passports, the officer said.Another investigator, who wished not to be named, said most people got in touch with the agents who made fake travel papers though common friends or acquaintances. He said it took the agents roughly a week or two to arrange fake visas.The police got its initial leads from the interrogation of the people arrested from airports. It emerged that gangs in Punjab, Gujarat and other states were engaged in an organised racket of preparing fake visas and passports to facilitate travellers who were ready to pay them anything between ₹50,000 to ₹5 lakh, depending on the destination.“Several teams were dispatched to various locations of Punjab, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Uttarakhand, Mumbai and Haryana to nab the identified suspects,” the officer said.The DCP said of the 59 men arrested so far at least 10 were “masterminds”. Most of these men are involved in cases reported in the pre-Covid time as during most part of 2020 international travel remained shut, he said.A third investigator said the suspects charged up to ₹1 lakh for a visa to West Asia and south-east Asian countries and a Schengen Visa for European countries and a visa to USA and Canada costed ₹3-5 lakh. “Charges for making fake passports were less – between ₹20,000 to ₹50,000 – but for visas, it varied depending upon the country of travel.While ₹50,000 to ₹1 lakh were charged for visas to Gulf nations and southeast Asian countries, they demanded ₹2-5 lakh for visas to Canada, USA or UK. The money charged for visas to European countries, Australia and countries like New Zealand even went up to ₹4-8 lakh. The payments were usually made in cash,” the officer said.DCP Ranjan said that the crackdown is continuing and that more arrests are likely in time to come.“We have recovered fake stamps which they used to prepare forged visa and passports. During questioning, the suspects told us that they mostly got clients from people who they knew and they charged money according to the country or how desperate a person was to travel abroad,” the DCP said.In the latest case, three people were handed over by the immigration officials at Delhi airport to the police on February 2. A man from Sitamarhi in Bihar was arrested at the airport for allegedly travelling to Maldives on fake employment visa. The man was caught around 8am at Terminal 3 after he was deported from Male airport for holding fake documents.The same day,two men belonging to Nuh in Haryana, were deported from Maldives for holding fake employment visa and were caught at the Delhi airport at 2am.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/travel-racket-busted-cops-nab-59-for-forging-visas-passports-101613338867453.html
15-02-2021||India||New satellite to carry Bhagavad Gita, PM Modi’s photo||A copy of the Bhagavad Gita, a photograph of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, and the names of 25,000 individuals will be carried to space by the Satish Dhawan Satellite, or SD SAT, which will be launched at the end of the month by the polar satellite launch vehicle (PSLV).The nanosatellite, named after one of the founding fathers of India’s space programme and developed by SpaceKidz India, an organisation dedicated to promoting space science among students, will also carry three scientific payloads — one to study space radiation, one to study the magnetosphere, and another that will demonstrate a low-power wide-area communication network.“There is a lot of excitement in the group right now. This will be our first satellite to be deployed in space. When we finalised the mission, we asked people to send in their names that will be sent to space. And, within a week we received 25,000 entries. Of these, 1,000 names were sent in by people from outside India. There is a school in Chennai that sent in the names of everyone. We decided to do this because it will spark interest of the people in the mission and space science,” said Dr Srimathy Kesan, founder and CEO of SpaceKidz India.Read more: Isro tests satellites developed by private sector for the first timeThe people who sent in their names were given a “boarding pass”.Kesan added that they decided to send a copy of the Bhagvad Gita to space on the lines of other space missions that have carried holy books such as the Bible. “We have also added the name and photograph of the prime minister on the top panel with the words Atmanirbhar mission. This satellite has been completely developed and fabricated in India, including the electronics and circuitry,” she said.The names of Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) chairperson Dr K Sivan and scientific secretary Dr R Umamaheswaran have been etched on the bottom panel.The satellite will be transported to the spaceport at Sriharikota on Sunday after some design changes were made following recommendations by ISRO. “We are conducting last-minute checks before sending over the satellite. We had to re-do the solar panel on the satellites after testing at ISRO because there was a problem with the resin and there was bulge on a few cells. But it was thought that the entire thing might ooze out in space in two to three days,” said Kesan.This is one of the two satellites developed by Indian startups that will be launched for the first time by ISRO after the country opened up the space sector to private entities in June last year.Read more: Isro to launch Brazilian, Indian satellites in first mission of 2021The PSLV-C51 mission, scheduled for February 28, will carry Brazil’s earth observation satellite Amazonia-1 as the primary satellite along with 20 co-passenger satellites, including a nanosatellite from ISRO, three UnitySats by an academic consortium, and a demonstration satellite by another start-up, Pixxel (incorporated as Syzygy Space Technologies).Pixxel plans to create a constellation of 30 earth observation satellites by December 2022 that will provide global coverage every 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-satellite-to-carry-bhagavad-gita-pm-s-photo-101613337234088.html
15-02-2021||India||22-yr-old activist, Disha Ravi, held for ‘protest toolkit’||Delhi Police’s cyber crime unit has arrested 22-year-old climate activist Disha Ravi from her house in North Bengaluru for allegedly sharing on social media the toolkit related to the farmers’ protests against the laws aimed at opening up trade in agriculture, police said on Sunday.Delhi police on Sunday said in a tweet that it was Ravi who had shared the toolkit document with Swedish environmental activist Greta Thunberg and later asked the latter to remove the document after its incriminating details accidentally became public knowledge.Ravi was arrested on Saturday night. Ravi, who was booked for sedition, promoting enmity and criminal conspiracy, among other offences, was produced at a city court on Sunday after which she was sent to five days in police custody.Delhi police’s additional spokesperson Anil Mittal confirmed that Ravi had been arrested from Bengaluru by a team of the special cell that is probing a conspiracy angle related to the toolkit document.“Investigation has revealed that she was one of the editors of the Google toolkit document and a key conspirator in the document’s formulation and dissemination,” Mittal said, adding that further investigations in the case were in progress. Police have not ruled out a possibility of more arrests in the case.Delhi police on February 4 registered a first information report (FIR) under sections 124A (sedition), 153 (wantonly giving provocation with intent to cause riot), 153A (promoting enmity between different groups) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) after Thunberg tweeted the toolkit while expressing her support to the farmers’ protest in India.The police have claimed that the toolkit was put together by a “pro-Khalistani group” named Poetic Justice Foundation. Thunberg later deleted the original tweet. The FIR was registered against the people who created and spread the toolkit.On Sunday, Delhi police, in a series of tweets, said that Ravi had started a WhatsApp group and collaborated in the effort to prepare the toolkit document.One of the tweets read, “Disha Ravi, arrested by CyPAD Delhi Police, is an Editor of the Toolkit Google Doc & key conspirator in document’s formulation & dissemination. She started WhatsApp Group & collaborated to make the Toolkit doc. She worked closely with them to draft the Doc.”One tweet said Delhi Police had taken cognizance of a ‘Toolkit Document’ found on a social media platform that predates and indicates a copycat execution of a conspiracy behind the January 26 violence in the capital during a tractors rally organised by protesting farmers.The call was to wage economic, social, cultural and regional war against India, the tweet said.Another tweet said, “In this process, they all collaborated with pro Khalistani Poetic Justice Foundation to spread disaffection against the Indian State. She was the one who shared the Toolkit Doc with Greta Thunberg.”The police also said that “she (Ravi) asked Greta to remove the main Doc after its incriminating details accidentally got into public domain. This is many times more than the 2 lines editing that she claims.”Ravi is founder of a group named Fridays For Future (FFF) and has a bachelor’s degree in business administration.According to the Delhi Police officials, Ravi is a key lead in the “toolkit” case as she had admitted during the initial interrogation to editing, adding some things in the toolkit and spreading it further.Last week, Delhi Police sent a communication to Google seeking registration details and activity log of the account through which a “toolkit” related to the farmers’ protest was created and uploaded on the social media platforms.Two e-mail IDs, one Instagram account, and one Uniform Resource Locator (URL) were mentioned in the toolkit and police had sought details from the respective platforms.Farmers have been protesting at different border points of the national capital since November 26 against the three newly enacted farm laws: Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.They claim that the laws would weaken their bargaining power, leave them at the mercy of powerful agribusinesses and potentially lead to the dismantling of government-run farm produce markets and the system of minimum support prices for agricultural commodities.The Coalition for Environmental Justice in India said in a statement signed by at least 78 activists from across the country on Sunday: “Delhi Police’s actions are all the more sinister because the 21-year old was taken to Delhi from Bengaluru with no disclosure about her whereabouts, not even to her parents, an action that can be termed extra-judicial abduction.”Ravi sent to five days of police custodyA city court on Sunday allowed the police five days of custody to interrogate the 22-year-old.Metropolitan magistrate Dev Saroha remanded Ravi to custody of the Special Cell of the Delhi Police following her arrest from Bengaluru. The police had sought a remand of seven days to “unearth her connections with the organization, Sikhs for Justice and its founder Patwant Singh Pannu.”Ravi was not represented by any private counsel during the hearing, following which the city court provided her a Delhi State Legal Services Authority (DSLSA) lawyer.During the hearing, she broke down and refuted allegations that she was conspiring against the government. She said she edited “just two lines” as she supported the farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/22yrold-activist-held-for-protest-toolkit-101613336381146.html
15-02-2021||India||Rural demand engine choking once again?||When India announced an almost complete lockdown beginning on March 25, 2020 to prevent the spread of Covid-19 infections, economic activity suffered a sharp disruption. So much so that even the nation’s air and rivers became the cleanest they had been in years. The only sector that was an exception to this disruption was agriculture. With expected growth of 3.4% in 2020-21, it has emerged as a critical buffer for an economy that is set to suffer its biggest contraction ever in the financial year ending March. Agriculture’s performance has been critical for both maintaining supplies as well as sustaining rural demand. Recently released high-frequency indicators suggest that the rural demand story might be heading into rough weather once again. The biggest reason for this seems to be the usual culprit, a worsening of the terms of trade against farmers. However, the weakness in labour markets in the cities is also contributing to the crisis. Here are four points that explain these trends.1. Food inflation has collapsed, but non-food prices continue to riseAccording to the Consumer Price Index (CPI) data for January, which was released on February 12, food inflation has collapsed in the past two months. It grew 9.5% in November 2020, 3.4% in December 2020 and fell to 1.9% in January 2021. Non-food inflation, on the other hand, continues to increase, the respective numbers being 5.2%, 5.4% and 5.5%. The developing situation is the stark opposite of what existed in the past year or so when food inflation had been higher than non-food inflation. This entails a worsening of the terms of trade, or the ratio of prices of products they sell and buy, for the farmers.2. Fall in food inflation is being driven by items which matter in the agri-production basketThe sharp moderation in food prices, to be sure, is not a secular trend. While prices of vegetables have fallen sharply, and cereal prices remain flat, prices of other food items such as pulses, edible oils and meat products continue to rise in double digits. This means that the economic pain of worsening terms of trade vis-a-vis the food sector is confined to those who produce cereals and vegetables. An analysis of crop-wise share in the value of output in agriculture shows that cereals and vegetables are the most important component: they account for more than half of India’s agricultural production basket. This means that the numbers of farmers who would gain from a rise in prices of pulses and edible oil would be much smaller than those who are suffering because of the weakness in vegetable and cereal prices.3. Real rural wages have been contracting for four months nowMonthly data on rural wages is the only government statistic to track labour markets on a high-frequency level. Given the practice of large-scale rural migration of unskilled workers, rural wages are considered to be a good proxy of conditions in urban labour markets as well. Real rural wages have been contracting continuously between August 2020 and November 2020 - the latest period for which data is available. When read with the fact that the October and November contraction has come on the back of an already low base, real rural wages contracted continuously between October 2019 and March 2020, the situation seems to be even more alarming. That non-agricultural wages have been falling at a faster pace than agricultural wages suggests that continuing weakness in urban markets – it is non-agricultural work which these labourers go and perform in cities – might be generating headwinds for wages in rural areas.4. RBI consumer confidence survey data corroborates the urban labour market weakness storyWhile India does not have an official source of high-frequency data on employment, the Reserve Bank of India’s Consumer Confidence Surveys (CCS) offer an insight into prevailing sentiment vis-a-vis employment and incomes in the cities. The CCS is conducted every two months in the 13 biggest cities of India, the latest round having been done in January 2021. Among other things, the CCS seeks responses on perception around incomes and employment compared to a year ago. On both these counts, the share of respondents who reported a deterioration far exceeded those who reported an improvement, dragging the net perception into negative territory. The fact that things have not improved despite removal of lockdown restrictions and economic activity related private indices such a Purchasing Managers’ Indices and the Nomura India Business Resumption Index doing very well suggests that employment and wages continue to be weak even though production might be improving.To be sure, experts have underlined the upside bias many high-frequency indicators including quarterly gross domestic product ( GDP) numbers could have. “Quarterly GDP data is less representative of informal sector, it could underestimate the extent of economic disruption and permanent scarring”, said a note by Samiran Chakraborty, chief economist India of Citi Research, while upgrading the growth forecast for 2020-21 GDP. Nomura economists Sonal Varma and Aurodeep Nandi noted that “labour and weak private capex conditions remain drags over (growth in) the medium term”.“A collapse in vegetable prices and cereal incomes being flat at a time when non-food prices are rising will put a squeeze on farm incomes and hence rural demand. The fact that increased duties in petrol-diesel are major contributors to non-food prices suggests that this worsening of terms of trade for agriculture is partly policy inducedm” said Himanshu, an associate professor of economics at the Jawaharlal Nehru University. “We will do well to not become complacent about rural demand when the rest of the economy is still on thin ice,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rural-demand-engine-choking-once-again-101613329219798.html
15-02-2021||India||Uttarakhand floods: 12 bodies found, no trace of 154 people still||Rescue personnel on Sunday recovered the bodies of five people trapped in the 1.7-kilometre-long main tunnel of NTPC Limited’s hydropower project in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli district, and found seven more elsewhere, taking the confirmed death toll to 50 in the devastating flash floods triggered by a rockslide and the formation of a glacial lake in the mountainous terrain.At least 154 more people are still missing exactly a week after the flash floods, which were immediately followed by the launch of the rescue operation. Around 35 people had been trapped inside the main tunnel and a smaller underground tunnel located beneath it.The five bodies in the tunnel were recovered after the rescue workers cleared slush inside to a distance of about 130 metres.Chamoli’s district magistrate Swati S Bhadauria said: “In the morning two bodies were first recovered inside the tunnel after clearing the muck to a distance of about 125-130 metres. Following that, three more bodies were recovered till Sunday afternoon.”Read more: Uttarakhand law to levy water tax on hydropower projects in state held valid“The administration has kept seven ambulances and a chopper on standby in case any of the workers is found alive from the tunnel,” Bhadauria added.A team of rescue workers is trying to drill its way to the smaller tunnel to rescue about 30 workers trapped inside, she said. “On Saturday, the rescue workers finished drilling vertically in the main tunnel to reach out to a small underground tunnel beneath it at a depth of 12.7 metres. They, however, hit slush after drilling to the required depth, which they have been pumping out to get inside to search for workers trapped inside it,” she said.Rescue workers recovered seven other bodies including six from Reni village near the Rishi Ganga hydel power project, which was the first one to be hit by the flash floods in Sunday’s disaster. One body was recovered from the Alaknanda river in Rudraprayag.Uttarakhand: ITBP constructs bridge to connect villages cut off in disasterNilesh Anand Bharne, deputy inspector general of police(law & order), said that out of the 50 bodies recovered so far, 25 have been identified.Read more: Uttarakhand: Man vandalised Shiv lingam as he was ‘not cured of ailment despite praying’“Of the 50 bodies, 41 were recovered from Chamoli district, seven from Rudraprayag and one each from Tehri Garhwal and Pauri Garhwal districts,” said Bharne.“Apart from the bodies, the rescue workers also recovered 23 human body parts. DNA samples of all the body parts and dead bodies have been collected to ascertain their identities.”The police officer said rescue workers have so far “cremated 32 bodies and 11 human body parts with complete rituals and respect. The rescue agencies have also videographed and photographed the jewellery, tattoo and other identity marks of the bodies found.”“The rescue workers are working tirelessly to recover the remaining bodies. The family members can contact helpline numbers- 01372-251487 and 9084127503 for any queries or help,” said Bharne.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-floods-12-bodies-found-no-trace-of-154-people-still-101613334685230.html
15-02-2021||India||0.25% health workers fully vaccinated: Govt||India has fully vaccinated 0.25% of its nearly one million health care workers against Covid-19, shows latest data from the Union ministry of health and family welfare released on Sunday.An estimated 92,61,227 health care workers were identified by the government to be vaccinated against Covid-19 under the national immunisation drive on priority, of which 23,628 have completed the two-dose regimen as per the provisional data available till Sunday morning.Among those health care workers who were vaccinated on January 16, when Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched the Covid-19 vaccination drive across the country, and were eligible to receive the second dose on Saturday, at least 10% have been fully vaccinated so far.A total of 2,24,301 beneficiaries were vaccinated on Day 1 of the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive, of which 23,628 were vaccinated on Saturday as government began administering the second dose of the Covid-19 vaccines approved for use in India. “We expect the numbers to pick pace once the weekend gets over. There is a window of 4 to 8 weeks for giving the second dose but sooner the dose is taken the better it is,” said Dr NK Arora, National Task Force on Covid-19 related initiatives.The national drugs regulator, Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) has permitted two Covid-19 vaccines for use in India, and both the vaccines have a two-dose regimen.“The neutralising antibodies against the virus start developing at least two weeks aftertaking the second shot. It is proven beyond any doubt that vaccination imparts protection against Covid-19, and is the only way to achieve vaccine derived herd immunity against the disease,” said Dr GC Khilnani, former head, pulmonology and sleep medicine department, New Delhi’s AIIMS.“By April-May there are likely to be more Covid-19 vaccines manufactured in India, which will further boost the pace of vaccination. It will also help build vaccine confidence,” said Dr K Srinath Reddy, public health expert, and, founder, Public Health Foundation of India.Meanwhile, India, for now, is not looking at reviewing the gap between the two vaccine doses of SII’s Oxford-AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine.“The change in interval is not yet warranted,” said Dr Samiran Panda, head of epidemiology and communicable diseases division at the Indian Council of Medical Research.Dr Panda is also one of the members of the national task force on Covid-19 related matters.In all, 8.2 million beneficiaries have been vaccinated against Covid-19 in the country so far, the health ministry in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/025-health-workers-fully-vaccinated-govt-101613332844910.html
15-02-2021||India||Is compensation enough for man-made disasters?||A few days ago, farming and fishing communities in Nigeria were allowed to sue the Dutch company, Shell, in England. Their livelihoods, health and the ecosystem have been ruined by repeated oil spills. They didn’t expect much from the Nigerian courts. This news took my mind to communities around the Indian Oil owned Bhagjan oil well.On May 27th last year, following a leak, a terrifying blowout all but annihilated the area. Images of giant flames and intense smoke haunted India. The carcass of an endangered Gangetic Dolphin floated, skin peeled off. Thousands of locals fled, assets lost. Next door, two of the world’s most precious biodiversity hotspots reeled.The Dibru-Saikhowa biosphere reserve, home to birds found nowhere else, and Manguri Bheel, a unique wetland. Oil even reached the Lohit River. Compensation is in place, but one might ask if a one-time payment adequate. Is compensation a holistic, fair way to handle this blot on the planet?I think not. Indian Oil must obviously pay significant cash compensation to displaced communities. It must invest in impactful local livelihoods and education. Clean-ups are imperfect, but they must start.That’s not enough. Indian Oil must pay for unprotected land in a similar ecosystem in Assam, and nurture it with intense external monitoring. Our government should set in place a technically able team to monitor environmental and occupational safety in the extraction and manufacturing sector per se, reporting back to Parliament. Companies should deposit compensatory funds before they work. Nothing less is acceptable.(The writer is founder and director Chintan Environmental Research and Action Group)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/is-compensation-enough-for-man-made-disasters-101613332532912.html
15-02-2021||India||Employee compensations likely to be tweaked as govt eyes new labour codes||The labour ministry has finalised rules under the four labour codes, or laws, and is likely to notify them to take effect from April. The country’s most wide-ranging labour reforms in decades will have an impact on both employers’ outgo and employees’ take-home salaries.Once implemented, the codes will prompt companies to restructure employee compensation packages or “cost to company” (CTC). Firms have will have to restructure salaries because, under the new rules, all allowances, such as leave travel, house rent, overtime and conveyance, have to be capped at 50% of the CTC. The Code on Wages 2019 has revised the definition of ‘wages’ which will now include three components: basic pay, (inflation-linked) dearness allowance and retention payment.According to the new definition, “wage” will exclude statutory bonus, pension and PF contribution, conveyance allowance, HRA, overtime and gratuity. If any of these exclusions, in aggregate, are in excess of 50% of an employee’s CTC , barring special allowance, the excess amount will be added back to the wage for calculation of social security benefits.Read more: Labour ministry finalises rules under 4 codes, reform to be a reality soonA wider definition of basic pay will likely increase social security contribution because firms compute their social security contribution on the basis of how wages are defined. This could however result in lesser net take-home for employees, analysts say. Since basic pay could be higher because monetary allowances will be capped at 50% of CTC, companies may have to incur increased costs towards provident fund and gratuity,. Employers in the private sector generally either contribute 12% of an employee’s basic salary and dearness allowance to the provident fund.During consultations between the labour ministry, various stakeholders expressed concern over the possible impact of the new definition of wages on a company’s outgo. “However, there will be no change in the definition of wages,” a labour ministry official said.Parliament has passed four labour codes one each on wages, industrial relations, occupational safety health and working conditions and social security, bringing changes to a large number of labour laws, some dating back to the pre-Independence era. The changes have simplified, rationalised and amalgamated 29 central labour laws into four codes.Read more: Centre’s new labour codes to allow 4-day work per weekThe rules are likely to clarify how gratuity is to be calculated. Gratuity is calculated on the last drawn salary of a worker. It is computed by taking into account 15 days’ of their salary for every year worked in the preceding five years. Employees receive gratuity on completion of five years of continuous service. However, under the new changes, even fixed-term contract workers completing a year of service will get gratuity,The official cited above said the new rules may allow gratuity to be calculated in two phases to limit outgo of companies. Gratuity earned till the time of the new law comes into effect is likely to be calculated on the basis of the older definition of wages. From the next fiscal onwards, gratuity will be calculated based on the new definition. “This is being called a grandfather clause and, if introduced, it will limit costs to firms and their financial burden. However, the new changes would impact statutory payouts as they are linked to how wages are defined,” said Sanjay Saran, the CEO of GoHire Pvt Ltd.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ctcs-likely-to-be-tweaked-as-govt-eyes-new-labour-codes-101613332289666.html
15-02-2021||India||Farmers, Hindutva, businesses: The trinity of political economy||On January 27, farm leader Rakesh Tikait’s emotional appeal provided a fresh momentum to the farm protests, with Jats joining in large numbers. The Centre, fearing another January 26-like violent episode, responded with heavy police presence and barricades, and shutting down the internet in Delhi’s adjoining areas. These images added to the perception of State coercion, which led to global criticism, symbolised by the artiste Rihanna’s tweet. This, in turn, triggered a government response.But beyond these immediate responses, there is a deeper story of a shift in India’s political economy.Let us start with a simple question. Why did Tikait’s appeal, when faced with police attempts to vacate the protest site, go viral? Clearly, Jats perceived Tikait’s possible arrest or persecution as the State coming down on the legacy of his father, Mahendra Singh Tikait — a legendary farm leader, whose struggle earned him the status of a demigod in his community. When Rakesh Tikait was seen as facing the State’s might while fighting for a cause which his father championed, the community responded overwhelmingly.Read more: 'So much truth': Mahatma Gandhi's granddaughter lends support to protesting farmersRemember, the same Jat peasantry consolidated behind the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) after the Muzafffarnagar riots of 2013. Even before the riots, Jat khap panchayats had gained notoriety for persecuting marriages in violation of what the community considered acceptable. Progressives who are, today, celebrating khap panchayats condemning farm laws used to describe them as medieval institutions back then. The BJP, having used the same khap institutions for its Hindutva project, is, now, in the unenviable position of discrediting them and inviting more backlash.But this does not necessarily mean that the dominant value system among Jats has undergone a shift. What is more likely is a shift in the dominant political contradiction. Jats may have been alarmed about the real or perceived clout of Muslims with a Samajwadi Party government in Uttar Pradesh. That is not the case anymore. Political friendships change with political equations. It is to be seen whether anti-BJP parties can exploit what seems to be the muting of Hindutva as the primary contradiction among a dominant peasant community such as the Jats. When clubbed with the discontent among other dominant peasant communities such as Patidars and Marathas, this can be a potential political game changer. But this is not inevitable. If the BJP continues to consolidate non-dominant communities, who have an antagonistic social relation with the dominant peasant groups, such attempts will fail. So the electoral implication of the current shift will hinge on how successfully the Opposition is able to manage the conflict between the landed and non-landed sections of the peasantry.Read more: Bengaluru activist Disha Ravi held in Greta Thunberg's protest toolkit caseLet us now come to the question of international liberal anguish over the protests. While the outpouring seems to be driven by State’s high-handed response, do remember that the origins of these protests are economic in nature as against the primarily identity-based discontent triggered by the Citizenship (Amendment) Act.Interestingly, the Indian State is acting in keeping with the economic orthodoxy, championed by capitalist countries of the West, in pushing for the farm laws. World Trade Organisation (WTO) rules prohibit India from expanding the scope or coverage of the minimum support price (MSP) system, a key demand of the farmers. While it is unfair to raise this question to celebrities, is liberal opinion in the West willing to support the material demands of Indian farmers, which go against the interests of what continues to be heavily subsidised export-oriented agriculture in advanced countries?This contradiction does not limit itself to agriculture. Both international and domestic capital would like to see greater deregulation in India. However, each such attempt is likely to trigger deeper domestic unrest. This happened during the push to allow greater room for land acquisition. Farm protests are driven by fears that big business will abuse its dominant position in the farm-economy. Privatisation of government banks and insurance companies, where trade unions still have some clout, is not likely to be smooth either.Watch: Mahatma Gandhi's granddaughter visits farmers' protest site in GhazipurEconomic reforms are not new. But, 30 years after the 1991 transition, what has changed? The Marxist perspective of character of the Indian bourgeoisie offers clues. After Independence, there was a broad consensus between the political and economic elite about a State-led growth strategy. Big business was willing to cede leadership to the State because it lacked access to capital and could not surmount the challenges of technology and competition from foreign producers.As the economy grew, at least a section of big capital in India gained the ability to compete. Their opposition to reforms dipped. To be sure, there have been attempts to tailor reforms, especially regarding allowing foreign competitors, to suit strategic needs of big business groups. But the big picture is of a new consensus between the State and big domestic capital to pursue reforms.The basic contradiction around reforms, in a way, has shifted from one between domestic and foreign capital to one between the organised and unorganised sector, where the former is interested in usurping a larger part of the surplus which is generated in the latter. Marxists describe this as the process of primitive capitalist accumulation. This process is likely to add to overall growth. However, it is also likely to leave a majority of stakeholders in the unorganised sector with less than what they were getting in the pre-reform phase.The BJP has attempted to politically neutralise any discontent from this distress with the implementation of various welfare schemes. While such programmes can attract the poorest of the poor, they are unlikely to pacify the more dominant elements in the unorganised sector. Although insignificant when compared to India’s big business, the economic standing of this class makes them less susceptible to such welfare inducements.Watch: 'On farmers’ protest, Canadian PM Justin Trudeau commended India's efforts': MEAThis class has, so far, suffered indirectly due to economic reforms. But it has not had reasons to directly confront them. The 1991 reforms, which altered the relationship between domestic capital, foreign capital and the State, have been called “reforms by stealth” — but worked because of their relatively limited scope. Those affected by reforms are a much larger pool now, and stealth isn’t an option. That the protests against the farm laws have erupted at a time when the non-farm economy has contracted and farming has emerged as a sort of employer of last resort might only have added to the sense of siege.All these developments mark the beginning of an impossible trinity for both sides in India’s political economy.The BJP can keep dominant peasant communities happy by focusing on Hindutva, but that is unlikely to help it in winning support from big business. The ideological commitment to belief in big-business led growth aside, the latter is crucial for the centralised political finance model that the BJP has institutionalised. And attempts to keep pushing Hindutva and reform are likely to ferment civic unrest, which is likely to draw international ire.For the BJP’s opponents, attempts to push social reform or radical secularism are likely to alienate the dominant Hindu social elite. Completely abandoning these principles is likely to push minorities towards their own political formations. Taking an outright hostile position against economic reforms will have costs — especially for the Congress, which too, has been historically dependent on big business funding. And not taking a critical position will lose it the support of the emerging constituencies of discontent.Indian politics is likely to be determined by how well both political camps handle these impossible trinities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-hindutva-businesses-the-trinity-of-political-economy-101613331779484.html
15-02-2021||India||Orders that set the bar: How Allahabad HC stood for civil rights||On Monday, January 25, the Supreme Court reminded the Uttar Pradesh government that a high court is also a constitutional court and cannot be taken lightly. The observation by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde followed a raft of significant judgments and orders delivered by the Allahabad high court when people knocked on its doors for having their fundamental rights protected.The Allahabad high court has risen to the occasion each time, reaffirming the importance of the rights to privacy and autonomy while safeguarding civil liberties. It has set an example of how a constitutional court must act when justice delivery is an imminent necessity and not a luxury that can wait. Amid a challenging political and social atmosphere in Uttar Pradesh, the Allahabad HC has stood tall. Here are some instances in corroboration of how the high court took a stand:Anti-CAA protesters’ posters/bannersThe HC had in March 2020 taken strong exception to banners being put up by the state government to recover damages from those allegedly involved in the destruction of public property during protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act,or CAA, in Lucknow. The court came down heavily on the “name and shame” policy of the government and called it “undemocratic” besides an infringement of the right to privacy.“In the present case, the cause is not about personal injury caused to the persons whose personal details are given in the banner but the injury caused to the precious constitutional value and its shameless depiction by the administration. The cause as such is undemocratic functioning of government agencies which are supposed to treat all members of the public with respect and courtesy and at all times should behave in a manner that upholds constitutional and democratic values,” a strongly worded HC order read.Calling the state government’s move an “absolute encroachment on personal liberty,” the HC ordered the UP government to immediately remove the hoardings and submit a compliance report to the court.Dr Kafeel Khan’s detention under the NSASix months after he was being on one charge or another, it was in September 2020 when Kafeel Khan got off the hook with the high court quashing his detention under the National Security Act. The HC ordered his immediate release, saying the UP government had done a “selective reading” of his allegedly anti-CAA speech at the Aligarh Muslim University. It emphasised that the medical doctor had called for national integrity and not incited violence while also noting there were no grounds to impose the NSA on him and extend his detention.“A complete reading of the speech prima facie does not disclose any effort to promote hatred or violence. It also nowhere threatens peace and tranquillity of the city of Aligarh. The address gives a call for national integrity and unity among the citizens. The speech also deprecates any kind of violence. It appears that the district magistrate had selective reading and selective mention for few phrases from the speech ignoring its true intent,” stated the HC order.Khan has been a vocal critic of the Bharatiya Janata Party governments at the Centre and in UP.Expresses concern over misuse of slaughter lawIn October, the high court had expressed concerns over the misuse of the Uttar Pradesh Prevention of Cow Slaughter Act, 1955 to target innocent persons and lack of forensic evidence to prove that recovered meat was beef.While granting bail to Rahmuddin, a person who had been booked for cow slaughter, the HC said: “The Act is being misused against innocent persons. Whenever any meat is recovered, it is normally shown as cow meat (beef) without getting it examined or analysed by the forensic laboratory. In most of the cases, meat is not sent for analysis. Accused persons continue to remain in jail for an offence that may not have been committed at all.”It observed that there was a need to take care of old or non-milking cows which are abandoned by owners if the law against the slaughter of cows is to be implemented in letter and spirit.Right to choose life partner a fundamental rightDays before the UP government notified the anti-conversion ordinance amidst a clamour against so-called love jihad, the high court delivered a landmark verdict on the sanctity of inter-faith marriages in November 2020.“Right to live with a person of his/her choice irrespective of religion professed by them is intrinsic to right to life and personal liberty,” said the court, adding interference in a personal relationship would constitute a serious encroachment into the right to freedom of choice of the two individuals.“To disregard the choice of a person who is of the age of majority would not only be antithetic to the freedom of choice of a grown up individual but would also be a threat to the concept of unity in diversity,” said the HC, as it quashed an FIR lodged by a man against his daughter’s husband, whom she married after conversion to Islam.The court also observed that its two previous rulings against marriages performed after alleged conversions were not good in law since they failed to take into account the rights of liberty, equality and privacy.Women have right to live on own termsBy a judgment in December, the Allahabad high court reunited a Hindu woman with her Muslim husband, underlining that “she has a choice to live her life on her own terms”. The court decided a habeas corpus plea filed by the man, who complained his wife had been sent to her parents against her wishes by the Nari Niketan or Child Welfare Committee (CWC).“As the corpus (woman) has attained the age of majority and she has a choice to live her life on her own terms and she has expressed that she wants to live with her husband, she is free to move as per her own choice without any restriction or hindrance being created by third party,” held the court in its judgment. The court also quashed an FIR registered against the man for allegedly abducting the woman.Abuse of power in Tablighi Jamaat caseThe high court was critical of the invocation of Section 307 (attempt to murder) under the Indian Penal Code against a person from Mau who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation at Delhi’s Nizamuddin in March 2020.“From a perusal of the material, charge sheeting the applicant under Section 307 IPC prima facie reflects abuse of the power of law,” said the HC as it stayed the criminal proceedings against the man concerned.The court also directed the police officers to file personal affidavits to justify invoking Section 307 from the facts of the case.Govt drops anti-conversion charge after HC protectionIn December, the high court restrained the state government from arresting a 32-year-old Muslim man from Muzaffarnagar district -- one of the first to be charged under UP’s controversial anti-conversion law. The man was charged with having an affair with the wife of a Hindu man. The court had then said: “Victim is admittedly an adult who understands her well-being. She, as well as the petitioner, have a fundamental right to privacy and being grown-up adults who are aware of the consequences of their alleged relationship.”Later, in January, the state government told the high court that the police had dropped charges against him since no evidence was found during investigation. “During investigation no evidence was found that the accused Nadeem was having any illicit relation with the woman.Further, during investigation, no evidence was found in support of the allegation that Nadeem was trying for her religious conversion as alleged by the complainant,” its affidavit stated.Notice before interfaith marriages not mandatoryDelivering yet another progressive ruling earlier this month, the high court ruled that the publication of a notice of intended marriage under the Special Marriage Act (SMA) and inviting objections was not mandatory. The court said that any additional burden in law on a couple only on account of having an inter-faith marriage would be a violation of their right to equality, dignity and privacy.Interpreting the SMA in the backdrop of the recent Supreme Court judgments on privacy and liberty, the HC said that it shall be optional for the parties to the intended marriage to make a request in writing to the marriage officer to publish or not to publish a notice for inviting objections from the public at large.“Making such publication mandatory would invade in the fundamental rights of liberty and privacy. It would also affect the couple’s freedom to choose marriage without interference from state and non-state actors”, held the HC.Anti-conversion ordinance scrutinyThe high court has shown its resolve to examine the constitutionality of the UP Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020, despite repeated attempts by the state government to take away the issue from its jurisdiction. Responding to a bunch of petitions, the state government’s additional advocate general had first requested the HC not to examine the law because similar petitions were pending before the Supreme Court. But to no avail. The HC not only shot down a plea for adjournment, but it also asked the government to file its affidavit in response to the petitions in order to bring its stand on record. The UP government had to then submit its affidavit.Getting no relief from the HC, the state government took recourse to the Supreme Court and filed a transfer petition. It requested the top court to stop the HC from scrutinising the ordinance.But this endeavour also failed. On Monday, the top court declined to entertain its transfer petition and directed the state to go before the HC on February 6 when the case will be heard next.While it is yet to rule on the constitutional validity of the controversial ordinance against forced conversion, the Allahabad high court, by frequently stepping in to underscore the significance of fundamental rights, has undoubtedly been able to generate a sense of confidence about due legal process culminating in a justice-oriented decision||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/orders-that-set-the-bar-how-allahabad-hc-stood-for-civil-rights-101613330605965.html
15-02-2021||India||JMM preps for polls in neighbouring Bengal, wants to contest 25 to 30 seats||With poll dates for the assembly election in West Bengal likely to be announced soon, the Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) has stepped up preparations to field candidates in the neighbouring state.On Sunday, the West Bengal state committee of the regional party of Jharkhand met at Sildah to chalk out poll strategies. West Bengal assembly poll in-charge of JMM Supriyo Bhattacharya and general secretary Bittu Murmu along with party legislators from Jharkhand Ramdas Soren, Sabita Mahto and Samir Mahanty attended the meeting.This was the first state committee meeting after JMM working president Hemant Soren launched the party’s poll campaign from Jhargram on January 28.The JMM is eyeing to contest 25 to 30 seats in Bengal. On Sunday, the state committee chipped in for about 40 seats, said Pradesh committee general secretary Bittu Murmu. He did not disclose the seats identified, however. The JMM had contested 22 assembly seats in the 2016 state polls in West Bengal.He said the party leaders discussed local issues. The top priority of contesting the assembly polls is to stop the wheels of the BJP juggernaut that is on a roll, he said.Sharing details, JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya said directives were given to form booth committees and fringe organizations having local appeal. The party is also keen on roping in former MLA Chunibala Hansdah's daughter Birbaha Hansdah and to field her as party candidate from Binpur assembly seat.The JMM, however, was silent on any alliance. “Till date there is has not been any talk of an alliance,” said Murmu. Bhattacharya however said, “Talks are on with some political parties, we will disclose it after the poll notification.”The JMM has put on hold the announcement regarding the proposed rally in Raghunathpur in Purulia district. Hemant Soren is likely to attend the rally.According to JMM leaders, the party is yet to finalize the dates in view of the forthcoming budget session of Jharkhand assembly beginning February 26. It would be announced next week, they said. The JMM is also planning to hold rallies in Jalpaiguri, Siliguri and Alipurduar in north Bengal, apart from Birbhum, Bankura and Medinipur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jmm-preps-for-polls-in-neighbouring-bengal-wants-to-contest-25-to-30-seats-101613327234479.html
15-02-2021||India||LPG price hiked by ₹50 per cylinder in Delhi, to cost ₹769 from today||The price of liquefied petroleum gas domestic cylinder in Delhi was raised by ₹50 per unit on Sunday, the third increase in LPG rates since December last year.The new price of ₹769 per 14.2 kg LPG cylinder will be applicable in the national capital from 12am tomorrow.On December 1, 2020, the price was hiked by a similar ₹50 per cylinder, followed by a hike of ₹50 again on December 16 due to firming of international prices.The price of non-subsidised LPG cylinder was increased to ₹694 per 14.2-kg cylinder from ₹644 earlier, according to a price notification of state fuel marketing companies.Prior to that, the price had remained unchanged at ₹594 a cylinder since July. This was the same rate at which subsidised LPG refills are also sold.Since May last year, most cooking gas customers have not received subsidies as the combination of international oil price collapse and domestic refill rate increases brought parity between subsidised and market rates.The price of LPG gas cylinders is determined by state-run oil companies and is revised on a monthly basis. Depending on international fuel rates and US dollar-rupee exchange rates, the prices can go up or down.The rise in price of LPG comes at a time when petrol and diesel prices in India have touched an all-time high.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lpg-price-hiked-by-rs-50-per-cylinder-in-delhi-to-cost-rs-769-from-tomorrow-101613315450328.html
15-02-2021||India||PM Modi inaugurates key projects in Chennai ahead of assembly polls||On his first visit to Chennai, after the BJP formalised its alliance with the ruling AIADMK in poll-bound Tamil Nadu, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday inaugurated a slew of infrastructure projects, while his speech bore elements of a mass outreach.At Chennai’s Jawaharlal Nehru stadium, Modi quoted Tamil philosopher Subramanian Bharati to recall the Pulwama attack that happened two years ago. “Inspired by his (Bharati’s) vision, India has undertaken a massive effort to become self-reliant in the defence sector,” said Modi after handing over the indigenous battle tank Arjun Mark 1A to the Indian army. “A tank made in Tamil Nadu will be used on our northern borders to keep the nation safe. This showcases India's united spirit – Bharat's Ekta Darshan.”Modi’s speech stressed on Atma Nirbhar—self-reliance in the defence and infrastructure sector and of provisions in the Union Budget for Tamil Nadu-- ₹63,000 crore set aside for phase-2 of Chennai's metro. It is “one of the largest projects sanctioned for any city in one-go,” the Prime Minister said.He appreciated the state’s farmers “for record food grain production and good use of water resources” quoting Tamil poet Avvaiyar on water conservation which he said is a global issue. Modi's speech highlighted the Centre's schemes that have benefitted Tamil Nadu and outlined the BJP's poll plank in the southern state where it has a meagre presence. Modi often quotes Tamil philosophers and poets on public platforms which is the saffron party's defence against criticism that it is a ‘north Indian party’. In January, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi had attacked Modi, BJP and the RSS claiming that they were disrespecting Tamil people.Modi announced that the Centre has accepted the demand of the Devendrakula Velalar community that they should be known by their heritage name, a day after a bill to modify the list of Scheduled Castes in Tamil Nadu was introduced in the Lok Sabha on Saturday. The Constitution (Scheduled Castes) Order (Amendment) Bill 2021 as proposed by the state government would group together seven castes to be known as Devendrakula Velalar which exist separately presently. “I can never forget my meeting with representatives of the Devendrars in 2015 in Delhi,” Modi said.“Colonial rulers took away their pride and dignity... They told me- they pleaded and pleaded to Governments but nothing changed. I told them one thing. I said that their name Devender rhymes with my own name- Narendra. I understand their emotions. This decision is more than a change of name. It is about justice, dignity and opportunity.”Speaking on the longstanding problems faced by fishermen in the high seas, Modi said that during his tenure more than 1600 fishermen were released after being apprehended by Sri Lanka. “Currently, there is no Indian fisherman in Sri Lankan custody.”He announced that the Jaffna Cultural Centre built by India would open soon. “The issue of Tamil rights has also been taken up by us consistently with Sri Lankan leaders,” Modi said. “Our Government has always taken care of the welfare and aspirations of our Tamil brothers and sisters in Sri Lanka. It is my honour to have been the only Indian PM to visit Jaffna,” he said listing development work for the minority Tamils living in the island nation.The Prime Minister inaugurated a 9.05 km Chennai Metro Rail Phase-I extension, completed at a cost of Rs. 3770 crore. Chennai Metro Rail Limited (CMRL) announced that passengers could travel free along this line after the inauguration until 11am on February 14. Modi also unveiled railway electrification of single line section of 228 km several districts completed at a cost of ₹423 crore which is expected to save Rs.14.61 lakh per day on fuel cost and a fourth Railway line between Chennai Beach and Attipattu laid for ₹293.4 crore.He also laid the foundation stone for two projects-- the renovation of the Grand Anicut Canal System crucial for irrigation in the delta districts to be taken up at ₹2,640 crore and a Discovery Campus to come up at IIT Madras for ₹1000 crore in the first phase. “These projects are symbols of innovation and indigenous development. These projects will further the growth of Tamil Nadu,” Modi said.Modi was flanked by Governor Banwarilal Purohit, chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami, deputy chief minister O Paneerselvam at the event which was attended by leaders of their alliance partners and the public. Palaniswami and Paneerselvam spoke of the cooperative federal structure between the AIADMK-led state and BJP-led central government.After reaching the Chennai airport, Modi had taken a chopper and a convoy by road to reach the venue where he was welcomed by AIADMK and BJP cadre. Modi caught an aerial glimpse of the on-going test match between India and England in the city’s MA Chidambaram stadium- a picture of which he tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-inaugurates-key-projects-in-chennai-ahead-of-assembly-polls-101613308377086.html
15-02-2021||India||Ex-CJI Ranjan Gogoi’s remarks on judicial system worrisome: Sharad Pawar||NCP chief Sharad Pawar on Sunday said that Rajya Sabha MP and former Chief Justice of India Ranjan Gogoi’s statement on the judicial system was shocking and has become a cause of worry for everyone.Barely a week after Prime Minister Narendra Modi lauded the judiciary for safeguarding peoples’ rights and personal liberty, Gogoi criticized the judicial system saying that the judiciary in India is in a “ramshackled” state.“Last week I read that the country's judicial system is the best. The statement was made by the Prime Minister in a meeting with Supreme Court judges. Obviously, we all felt happy about it but the remarks of Gogoi who is also the former CJI and was nominated by the central government in the Parliament, are shocking. I don’t know if, in a way, he (Gogoi) tried to bring out the truth but it is certainly a matter of concern for all,” Pawar told reporters in Pune.On Thursday, the former CJI was quoted as saying that if one goes to Indian courts they have to wait endlessly for a verdict. “How important the judiciary is as a constitutional body need not be emphasized. You want a 5 trillion-dollar economy, but your judiciary is ramshackled,” Gogoi said at a conclave organized by India Today.Earlier this month, addressing an event to mark the golden jubilee of Gujarat High Court, Prime Minister Modi had said that the country’s Supreme Court has become number one in the world in conducting hearings through video-conferencing. He has also said that the judiciary has always interpreted the Constitution positively to strengthen it further. It always performed its duty, be it safeguarding the rights of people of the country or when a situation arose when national interest or when any situation arose where national interest needed to be prioritised, he said.Gogoi was nominated on March 16 last year by President Ram Nath Kovind, four months after his retirement in November 2019. He is the first former CJI to become a nominated member of the Rajya Sabha.His most significant judgment was in the Ram Janmabhoomi case, where he led a bench which granted the disputed land in Ayodhya to the Hindu parties, paving the way for the construction of the Ram Temple, a key political agenda of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/excji-ranjan-gogoi-s-remarks-on-judicial-system-is-worrisome-sharad-pawar-101613300027949.html
15-02-2021||India||‘Come what may, CAA won’t happen’: Rahul kicks off Assam poll campaign||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday said the party will not allow implementation of Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) at any cost and will work to protect Assam’s interests if the party returns to power in the poll-bound state.Addressing a rally at Boarding Field in Sivasagar, he said the legislation, which seeks to grant Indian citizenship to religious minorities from Bangladesh, Pakistan and Afghanistan, was a ploy by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to divide the people.“We are wearing a ‘gamocha’ (traditional Assamese towel) today where letters CAA have been written and marked with a cross. It signifies that come what may, CAA won’t happen. Illegal immigration is an issue, but Assam’s people have the capability to resolve this problem together with talks,” Gandhi said.There’s fear among a large section in Assam that if CAA is implemented it would lead to large scale influx of people from Bangladesh. Violent protests against the legislation in the state in December 2019 claimed five lives.Stressing that Congress will uphold and defend the Assam Accord (signed in 1985 after a six-year agitation against illegal immigrants from Bangladesh), Gandhi said the BJP was trying to do away with the accord, divide the state and implement CAA.Accusing the ruling BJP-led government in the state of exploiting the tea garden workers and giving benefit to businessmen from Gujarat, Gandhi promised that if the Congress comes to power in the state it will increase the daily wage of tea workers from present ₹167 to ₹365.“A mere ₹167 to tea workers and tea gardens to Gujarat businessmen. That’s why BJP wants to divide the state so that its resources can be stolen and given to others,” he said.Gandhi recalled how he learned a lot about Assam’s diverse communities, languages and cultures from former chief minister Tarun Gogoi (who died last November) during his visits to the state.“The BJP government at Centre has hurt the people of Assam by putting Gogoi who gave his entire life for the state in the same category of Padma awardees list with a bureaucrat who had served the Prime Minister Modi’s office. This was not a right thing,”Gogoi was named as a recipient of Padma Bhushan, the third highest civilian honour in the country, this year. Retired bureaucrat Nripendra Mishra who served as a principal secretary to the Prime Minister between 2014 and 2019 was also given the same honour.Gandhi continued with his recent jibe, ‘Hum do, Hamare Do’ (We two, Our two) and said that the country was being run by four people at present. Without taking names he added that like in the Centre, two persons were controlling everything in Assam.“We are a people’s party. If we come to power, the hatred being spread by BJP will disappear. We will take every section of the people irrespective of their caste, religion, language and status along with us and will create jobs for youths of Assam,” he said.“Remote control might be good for a television, but not when it comes to running a state like Assam. The present chief minister is remote controlled from Nagpur and Delhi and takes orders from there. That’s why we want to remove this government,” Gandhi added.Chattisgarh Chief Minister and party observer for Assam Bhupesh Baghel, party’s state in-charge Jitendra Singh, Lok Sabha MPs Gaurav Gogoi, Pradyut Bordoloi and Abdul Khaleque, party state president Ripun Bora and other senior leaders attended the rally.Gandhi’s rally comes three weeks after Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressed a rally at Jerenga Pathar in Sivasagar district on January 23 and distributed land allotment certificates to 106,000 landless families.Jerenga Pathar, a historic site where Joymoti, an Ahom princess, sacrificed her life in 17th century to protect the life of her husband Prince Godapani, who went on to become a king of the Ahom dynasty.The site of Gandhi’s rally, Boarding Field, is in the middle of Sivasagar town and close to heritage structures of the Ahom dynasty, which ruled Assam for six centuries from the 13th to the 19th. Earlier called Rangpur, Sivasagar was one the one of the capitals of the dynasty.The Congress, which ruled the state for three consecutive terms between 2001 and 2016 with Tarun Gogoi at the helm, is aiming to overthrow the BJP-led ruling coalition with an alliance stitched with five other parties.The All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF), which has 14 MLAs in the 126-member assembly, newly formed Anchalik Gana Morcha (AGM) and three Left parties (CPI, CPI-M and CPI-ML) are part of the alliance.Besides losing power, Congress, which won 26 seats in 2016, has also witnessed several setbacks in recent months due to deaths, by-poll losses and defection.Former chief minister Tarun Gogoi died in November, two sitting MLAs of the party quit and joined BJP in December and last month another lawmaker passed away taking the party’s strength down to 19.In their rallies in Assam in recent weeks, both PM Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah have targeted the Congress accusing it of failing to bring peace and prosperity to Assam despite ruling the state for decades.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wont-allow-caa-implementation-at-any-cost-rahul-gandhi-tells-voters-in-assam-101613296997901.html
15-02-2021||India||On second anniversary of Pulwama attack, JK police recover 7 kg IED in Jammu||On the second anniversary of Pulwama terror attack, a seven kg improvised explosive device (IED) was recovered near the Jammu Bus Stand on Sunday, s senior police official said.The IED was recovered from KC Chowk adjacent to the Jammu Bus Stand. The police official who did not wish to be named said that a militant identified as Suhail Bashir of Al-Badr outfit, was also arrested from the bus stand area. Suhail hails from Pulwama.The timely detection of the IED averted a possible tragedy because the bus stand normally remains crowded. The device was detected acting on specific information, the official said.The IED recovery comes close on the heels of the arrest of two top terrorists from Kunjwani in Jammu and Bari Brahmana area of Samba districts. But it also exposed chinks in the security grid.Zahoor Ahmad Rather, a top terrorist affiliated with The Resistance Front (TRF) who was wanted in connection with the killing of three BJP workers and a policeman in south Kashmir last year, was arrested in Bari Brahmana area of Samba on Saturday.Earlier on February 6, self-styled commander of the Lashkar-e-Mustafa (LeM), Hidayatullah Malik, alias "Hasnain", was held from the Kunjwani area of Jammu."Obviously there are now attempts by Pakistan and various terror outfits to create disturbance in Jammu region", the police officer said.Jammu and Kashmir’s Director General of Police (DGP) Dilbag Singh said a commander of Lashkar-e-Mustafa, which is a front of the Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) was recently arrested in Jammu's Kunjwani."He revealed that several hideouts have been stationed in Jammu to spread militancy. They receive weapons from Pakistan, send them to Kashmir and other areas", said the DGP.Two years ago on this day, a JeM suicide bomber rammed an explosive-laden car into a CRPF convoy in Pulwama, killing 40 troopers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-second-anniversary-of-pulwama-attack-jk-police-recover-7-kg-ied-in-jammu-101613295623225.html
15-02-2021||India||Arunachal honours Major Ralengnao Khathing who brought Tawang under Indian rule||Seventy years after he brought Tawang under Indian rule by reaching the area located near McMahon Line and unfurling the tricolour there, Arunachal Pradesh government on Sunday honoured Major Ralengnao Khathing with a memorial.Arunachal Pradesh Governor Brig (Retd.) BD Mishra laid the foundation stone of the memorial at Tawang, coinciding with the day Khathing is believed to have hoisted the Indian flag in Tawang in 1951. The state government also awarded Arunachal Ratna award to Khathing.Arunachal Pradesh chief minister Pema Khandu, Meghalaya chief minister Conrad Sangma, Union minister of state for sports and youth affairs Kiren Rijiju, Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat and family members of Khathing were present on the occasion.“Arunachal is elated to honour its true hero Major Ralengnao ‘Bob’ Khathing with Arunachal Ratna, the highest civilian honour of the state,” chief minister Pema Khandu tweeted after the event.Khathing, who was more popular as Bob, is relatively an unknown figure for most of India and even parts of Arunachal Pradesh. But people in Tawang still remember him with respect for establishing Indian control over the area when the threat of China loomed.“Not many of us are aware of Major Khathing and his contribution to Arunachal Pradesh. Once the memorial is constructed, visitors will come to know about him and his contributions,” Khandu had said last month while announcing the plan to honour the hero with a memorial.The memorial will highlight Khathing’s life and will also showcase traditions of the local Monpa tribe.Born at Ukhrul in Manipur in 1912, Khathing had served in the British Army in the Second World War. He was awarded the Military Cross and received the Member of British Empire (MBE) as well.After Independence, he was appointed as an assistant political officer in November 1950 in Tirap division and was posted in Pasighat in Arunachal Pradesh (known earlier as North East Frontier Agency-NEFA).It is believed that he started an arduous journey on foot from Charduar on January 17, 1951 with a team of soldiers from 5 Assam Rifles, traversing difficult and inhospitable terrain to reach Tawang on February 6.Also Read: China ramping up military infra in Tibet, Xinjiang for LAC operations“To establish Indian presence up to the extent of the McMahon Line, which was demarcated as the border between India and Tibet in 1914, under the terms of the Shimla Treaty, required covering the area by foot over very difficult terrain,” an Arunachal Pradesh government release said last month.“Khathing and his troops of 5 Assam Rifles successfully accomplished this. He then met and interacted with a number of ‘gaonburhas’ (village headmen) and quickly and effectively established authority over Tawang. Indian administrative presence was thus established in this remote part of the country,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/arunachal-honours-major-ralengnao-khathing-who-brought-tawang-under-indian-rule-101613283503359.html
15-02-2021||India||Omar says he and family put under house arrest||Former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister and National Conference vice president, Omar Abdullah on Sunday morning claimed that the government has put him and his father Farooq Abdullah under house arrest without any reason and termed this as "new J&K.""This is the “naya/new J&K” after Aug 2019. We get locked up in our homes with no explanation. It’s bad enough they’ve locked my father (a sitting MP) & me in our home, they’ve locked my sister & her kids in their home as well," Omar Abdullah tweeted while posting a picture of a bullet proof bunker vehicle placed outside his house.Terming this as a new model of democracy, Omar said the government did not give any explanation to his family members."Chalo, your new model of democracy means that we are kept in our homes without explanation but on top of that the staff that works in the house aren’t being allowed in and then you are surprised that I’m still angry & bitter," Omar said in another tweet.The police did not refer to house arrest but said movements of VIPs have been discouraged in view of the second anniversary of the Pulwama terror attack that killed 40 CRPF troopers."There shall be no Road Opening Party on ground. Due to adverse inputs, movement of VIPs/Protected Persons has been discouraged and all concerned were informed in advance not to plan a tour today," a police spokesman said.On Saturday another former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti was not allowed to move from her official Gupkar residence.Mufti had also alleged that she was stopped from visiting the family of Athar Mushtaq, who was killed in a controversial encounter on December 30 ,2020, and was placed under house arrest.“Placed under house arrest as usual for trying to visit the family of Athar Mushtaq killed allegedly in a fake encounter. His father was booked under UAPA for demanding his dead body. This the normalcy GOI wants to showcase to the EU delegation visiting Kashmir,” she said in a tweet.Teenager Athar Mushtaq, a resident of Pulwama, was killed along with two others Ajaz Maqbool (22) from Pulwama and Zubair Ahmad (24) from Shopian in a controversial encounter with security forces on December 30 at Lawaypora Srinagar. While security forces said that the trio was affiliated with militants and were given a chance to surrender, their families said they were innocent.She also released a 2:06 minute video in which she was apparently not being allowed to move out of her Gupkar residence in Srinagar while an official from administration was citing ‘security issues’ as the reason.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omar-abdullah-claims-he-is-under-house-arrest-in-new-model-of-democracy-101613282519337.html
15-02-2021||NA||Highlights: Russia reports 14,185 new Covid-19 cases in last 24 hours||India has successfully crossed the eight million mark in terms of the number of beneficiaries vaccinated for Covid-19 by inoculating 80,52,454 healthcare and frontline workers.The administration of the second dose of the Covid-19 vaccine to those beneficiaries who completed the 28-day period from the receipt of the first dose also began on February 13. According to the Union health ministry, 84,807 beneficiaries were vaccinated with the second dose till 6 pm on Saturday.The coronavirus caseload of India on Saturday reached 10,892,746 with the addition of 12,143 new cases, 103 deaths and 11,395 new recoveries, as per the data presented by the health ministry.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19Meanwhile, the United States has raised concerns on the World Health Organization's (WHO) investigation of the coronavirus origins in Wuhan. The US National Security Adviser has raised concerns over the possibility of China meddling with the investigation of WHO. China reacted strongly to the US concerns and said the country "should not be pointing fingers" at countries that helped WHO during the Covid-19 pandemic, as reported by Reuters. In Europe, Britain will soon start vaccinating more people as it is near the target of vaccinating over 15 million people in the priority group.Follow all the updates here:Hong Kong likely to begin Covid-19 vaccination in MarchHong Kong can start vaccinations for Covid-19 in early March if everything goes as planned, the city’s Civil Service Secretary Patrick Nip said, reports Bloomberg.Serbia donates Covid vaccines to MacedoniaSerbia donated 4,680 doses of the Pfizer/BioNTech Covid-19 vaccine to North Macedonia on Sunday, allowing its southern neighbour to begin inoculations ahead of schedule, reports Reuters.Japan approves Pfizer Covid-19 vaccineJapan's Health Ministry said on Sunday it has officially approved Pfizer Inc's Covid-19 vaccine, the first such approval in the country as it steps up efforts to tame a third wave of infections in the run-up to the Summer Olympic Games, reports Reuters.Odisha logs 73 new Covid-19 cases in last 24 hoursOdisha's Covid-19 caseload on Sunday surged to 3,36,174 after 73 more people tested positive for the infection, a health department official said, reports PTI.Russia reports 14,185 new Covid-19 casesRussia reported 14,185 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday, including 1,559 in Moscow, taking the national infection tally to 4,071,883 since the pandemic began, reports Reuters.New Zealand announces 3 day lockdown after 3 Covid-19 cases reportedNew Zealand Prime Minsiter Jacinda Ardern on Sunday announced a three-day lockdown in the country's biggest city Auckland, after three new local Covid-19 cases were reported, reports Reuters.Arunachal reports no new case of Covid-19Arunachal Pradesh did not report any fresh Covid-19 case on Sunday, a senior health official said, reports PTI.Brazil reports more than 1,000 daily Covid deaths for fifth dayBrazil registered 1,043 more deaths from Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, taking the nationwide death toll to 238,532, the Ministry of Health said on Saturday, reports ANI.Australia: Locked down Victoria records 2 new Covid-19 casesAustralia's second-most populous state, Victoria, reported two new cases of locally transmitted Covid-19 infection on Sunday, day two of a snap lockdown as authorities scrambled to curb the spread of the highly infectious UK variant of the disease, reports Reuters.India records 12,194 new Covid-19 cases, less than 100 fatalities in 24 hoursIndia on Sunday reported 12,194 new Covid-19 cases and 92 fatalities. Total recoveries crossed 10.6 million with the active caseload rising to 1.37 lakh, as per the health ministry data.Maharashtra: Thane logs 279 new Covid casesThane has added 279 new cases of coronavirus, raising the infection count in the Maharashtra district to 2,57,391,an official said on Sunday, reports PTI.EU to fast track variant-modified Covid vaccines approvalThe European Union will fast track approvals of coronavirus vaccines adapted to combat mutations, the bloc's Health Commissioner Stella Kyriakides said in a newspaper interview on Sunday, reports Reuters.Ethiopia reports 756 new Covid-19 casesEthiopia registered 756 new Covid-19 cases over the last 24 hours, taking the nationwide tally to 145,704, the country's Ministry of Health said Saturday, reports ANI.New Zealand reports 3 new Covid-19 cases, first since January New Zealand on Sunday reported three new locally acquired Covid-19 cases, the country's first since late January, when a returned traveller tested positive after leaving quarantine, reports Reuters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/live-new-zealand-reports-3-new-covid-19-cases-first-since-january-101613266417820.html
15-02-2021||NA||Highlights| PM hopping to poll bound states, but has no time for farmers: D Raja||The protest against the three farm laws which has been going on for the past 11 weeks have shown no signs of easing as the deadlock between protesting farmers’ unions representatives and the Centre remains unresolved.The Samyukt Kisan Morcha on Saturday said that farmers did not deserve to be called parasites by the government and said that they will reply back with ‘diplomatic punishment’ while speaking in reference to PM Narendra Modi’s speech in Parliament.Farmers’ union representatives have also demanded that all those who were jailed for violence on January 26 should be kept in the same jail.Meanwhile, a Delhi court has remanded Disha Ravi, a climate activist who has been arrested for alleged role in spreading a "toolkit" on farmers' protest, to five-day Delhi Police Special Cell custody.Follow all the updates here:PM hopping to poll bound states, but has no time for farmers, says D RajaCPI general secretary D Raja hit out at the Centre on Sunday over the ongoing farmers' agitation and said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi was hopping to poll- bound states but had no time to address farmers' concerns and meet their representatives.Samyukta Kisan Morcha condemns Disha Ravi's arrest, demands immediate releaseThe Samyukta Kisan Morcha condemned the arrest of climate activist Disha Ravi by the Delhi Police during the investigation into the toolkit case and demanded her immediate release. "We demand her immediate unconditional release," SKM said in the statement.Farm laws will finish public distribution system: TikatiBKU's Tikait also said that the new farm laws will finish the public distribution system and added that business on hunger would not be allowed in the country.Won't let Centre sit in peace till demands are met, says TikaitWon't let govt sit in peace till the farmers' demands are met: BKU leader Rakesh Tikait at farmer 'mahapanchayat' in Haryana's Karnal district. #FarmLawsBharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) spokesperson Rakesh Tikait said on Sunday he won't let the Centre sit in peace till the demands of the protesting farmers are met.Farmers' participate in Candle march on 2nd anniversary of Pulwama attack at Ghazipur borderFarmers' protesting against the Centre's three news farm laws at the Ghazipur border in the national capital were seen taking part in a candle march on the second anniversary of the Pulwama attack. Pakistan based- terror outfit Jaish-e-Mohammed carried out the ghastly attack on a Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) convoy of vehicles in Pulwama on February 14, 2019 which resulted in the death of 40 CRPF personnel.Disha Ravi 'key conspirator' in toolkit's formulation: PoliceDisha Ravi, arrested by Delhi Police, is an Editor of the Toolkit Google Doc & key conspirator in document's formulation & dissemination. She started WhatsApp Group & collaborated to make the Toolkit doc. She worked closely with them to draft the Doc: Delhi Police https://t.co/nsuXuuNZJ3 pic.twitter.com/fYB8koJnfjIndian diaspora groups in US launch rose campaign in support of farmersIndian diaspora groups in the United States launched a rose campaign in support of the farmers who have been protesting against the Centre's three new farm laws. The Global Indian Progressive Diaspora (GIPD) launched the social media campaign on Valentine's Day, which is observed globally on February 14, according to PTI.Climate activist Disha Ravi remanded to 5-day Delhi Police Special Cell custodyA Delhi court remands climate activist Disha Ravi to 5-day Delhi Police Special Cell custodyA Delhi Court has remanded Disha Ravi, a climate activist who has been arrested for alleged role in spreading a "toolkit" on farmers' protest, to five-day Delhi Police Special Cell custody.Activist Yogendra Yadav remembers CRPF soldiers killed in Pulwamaदेश के लिए अपना सर्वोच्च बलिदान देने वाले सभी अमर शहीदों को नमन।जय हिंद, जय हिंद की सेना।#PulwamaAttack @crpfindia pic.twitter.com/zLMZP5gzsOActivist Yogendra Yadav, who has been actively supporting the protests by farmers' unions representatives paid tribute to the 40 slain CRPF officers who lost their lives in Pulwama.Farmer leader Joginder Singh says laws will empower major companiesJoginder Singh Ugrahan Talking About Dangerous Three Farm Laws#FarmersProstest @amaanbali @bhupenderc19 @HartoshSinghBal @Tractor2twitr @ndtv pic.twitter.com/0SydGjvdnUFarmer leader Joginder Singh said that the farm laws will pave the path for multinational companies to earn profits from the agricultural sector.BKU leader Rakesh Tikait remembers CRPF personnel murdered in Pulwama"पुलवामा हमले" में शहीद हुए मां भारती के लाल सभी वीर सपूतों की पुण्यतिथि पर उन्हें समस्त किसान परिवार की ओर से श्रद्धांजलि,कोटि-कोटि नमन l #पुलवामा_शहीद_दिवस #पुलवामाTikait said that all farmers and their families pay their deepest respect to CRPF jawans who were killed in the Pulwama suicide attack.Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi to address Kisan MahapnachayatsCongress leader Priyanka Gandhi will address kisan panchayats at Chandpur, Mathura and Muzaffarnagar on Feb 15, 19 and 20 respectively, news agency PTI reported.BSP demands JP Dalal's resignationBahujan Samaj Party (BSP) asked Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar to take action against agri minister JP Dalal for his remarks on farmers' deaths during the protests. Sudhindra Bhadoria told news agency ANI that the lawmaker abused farmers who died amid the protests. "BSP believes in the Constitution and does not support violence anywhere. There is no place for violence during any kind of protest. The Constitution and democracy allow peaceful protests. But Chief Minister of Haryana Manohar Lal Khattar should also speak about his minister who is abusing the death of farmers during agitation. The Chief Minister should also tell the whole country and should take action against his minister." Bhadoria was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. Police annouce reward of ₹1 lakh for information on Lakha SidhanaPolice have announced a reward of ₹1 lakh for information leading to arrest of 26th January Delhi violence accused Lakhbir Singh alias Lakha Sidhana. Teams of Delhi Police Crime Branch and Special Cell are conducting search operations in Punjab, Haryana and Delhi-NCR.The gangster-turned-activist is being accused of instigating violence during the tractor rally on January 26. DPCC arrests climate activist for alleged role in spreading misinformationDelhi Police Cyber Cell arrested 21-year-old climate activist Disha Ravi from Bengaluru on 13th February for her alleged role in spreading 'toolkit' related to farmers protestA climate activist Disha Ravi has been arrested by Delhi Police Cyber Cell. Disha is based in Bengaluru and was arrested on Saturday. Haryana Agriculture Minister Jai Prakash apologises for remarks on farmers' deathsHaryana Agriculture Minister Jai Prakash Dalal said that his remarks on farmers' deaths were twisted and contorted to give a wrong impression. The lawmakers issued an apology saying that he never intended to hurt farmers. "Would not they have died if they were at home? Had they been at their homes, they would have died there also. Out of one to two lakh, do 200 people not die in six months? Someone is dying of a heart attack and someone after falling ill... They died of their own will," JP Dalal was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. Dalal later clarified, "During the press conference, I condoled the demise of farmers who died during the protest. Even if a person dies unnaturally, it is painful... My statement was twisted and the wrong meaning was given to it. I saw the video on social media. I tender my apologies if somebody was hurt by my statement."Parasite reference deeply hurt us: SKMDarshan Pal, Balbir Singh Rajewal, Gurnam Singh Chaduni and Rakesh Tikait of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha told the press on Saturday and alleged that the PM through his speech on Wednesday in Lok Sabha hurt the farmers in a 'diplomatic fashion'. Rajewal said the prime minister has given “diplomatic gaaliyan” (abuses) to farmers in the Lower House and said that the community has been deeply hurt.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-laws-protests-live-samyukt-kisan-morcha-ghazipur-border-msp-tikait-farmers-union-tomar-minister-yogendra-yadav-pm-modi-essential-commodities-act-mandi-101613264782852.html
15-02-2021||Today's||Delhi must take the long view on Dhaka||A tri-service military contingent from Bangladesh participated in India’s 72nd Republic Day parade. Given the importance of the occasion, and the fact that 2021 is the 50th anniversary year of Bangladesh’s liberation, the signal of an “irreversible partnership” is unmissable.When viewed in conjunction with the recent visual summit between Prime Ministers Narendra Modi and Sheikh Hasina, sustained high-level visits by top diplomats, signing of seven Memorandums of Understanding, restoration of the Haldibari-Chilahati railway line that was severed in 1965, a joint celebration of “Bangabandhu” Sheikh Mujibur Rahman’s legacy along with Mahatma Gandhi in a digital exhibition, and Modi’s planned visit to Dhaka in March, it becomes clear that this relationship is on stable ground.But with the historically cyclical nature of this relationship — on an upswing when Hasina’s Awami League is in power, and a downswing with the Bangladesh Nationalist Party (BNP) — how long will this bonhomie last? As the military coup in Myanmar shows, civilian power cannot be taken for granted in countries with chequered civil-military relations. The current stability offers an opportunity to take a hard look at the structural risks the India-Bangladesh relationship faces.Competition between religious and secular nationalisms in both countries is a powerful conditioning factor. This manifests in politically charged debates and violence around the issue of cross-border migration in India’s Northeast, and pervasive anti-India sentiment inside Bangladesh.India’s recent push to redefine citizenship along religious lines required proactive diplomatic management in Dhaka. As Bangladesh’s foreign secretary recently stated, there is “no immediate reason” for Dhaka to be concerned about the Citizenship (Amendment) Act-National Register of Citizens issue. He was careful not to give the impression that the issue is settled for good.Recent calls in India to support Hindu enclaves in Bangladesh is another sensitive issue with a historical precedent — witnessed in the demand for “Bangabhumi” by Bangladeshi Hindu separatists allegedly operating from Indian soil till the mid-2000s. This doesn’t bode well in the long-term either, even if such calls don’t have official sanction.Power asymmetry between the two countries, India’s diplomatic assurances, and Hasina’s historically pro-India tilt mean that Dhaka has decided to overlook these issues. But they feed into the often violent Islamist-versus-secular nationalist debate within Bangladesh. Despite the Awami League’s secular attractiveness for India, the party has struggled to deal with Islamists. In recent years, it has conceded ground to Hefazat-e-Islam — an Islamist umbrella organisation that rose to prominence in 2013.Another issue is Bangladesh’s increasingly one-party character under Hasina. This has enabled efficient decision-making as witnessed in Bangladesh’s economic success and effective management of big power rivalries. In the process, Hasina has neutralised the BNP and co-opted the military. But such moves create pockets of enduring resistance as the Islamists retain street power, and jihadist militancy refuses to die out.There is an ever-present risk of such violence percolating into India. This is witnessed in, among other cases, the recent arrests of Jamaat-ul-Mujahideen Bangladesh radicals in Assam. Couple this with the fragile, tragic, and exploitable (by the jihadists) humanitarian situation of the Rohingyas, and the picture looks bleaker.As India supports the revival of Mujib’s legacy, it will be useful to revisit the circumstances around his assassination in 1975. Increasingly embattled and authoritarian, Mujib — despite his pro-India, secular, and socialist credentials — failed to reconcile the country’s socio-political cleavages, leading to a violent pushback. Contrary to Indian expectations, popular reactions to the event were markedly lukewarm.Mujib’s privileging of personal loyalty over professional institutions created foreseeable problems. Declassified documents demonstrate India’s frustration over its inability to secure the “hardcore” of pro-India elements and help Mujib better manage internal conflicts.But what stands out is a paramount concern about another wave of forced migration, and the loss of Bangladesh to Pakistan less than four years after liberation.Unlike India, where a change of government doesn’t alter New Delhi’s calculus vis-à-vis Bangladesh, the reverse is not true. Ziaur Rahman, who came to power in 1975 and formed the BNP in 1978, never got along with India. Neither did his wife, Khaleda Zia, who led the BNP ever since Zia’s assassination in 1981. A dip in Hasina’s political fortunes or personal health, then, risks undermining India’s interests.In this context, China’s promise of big finance (being resisted by Dhaka for now,) and its role in curating a thaw between Dhaka and Islamabad, should give India pause. To rely on the existence, skills, and charisma of a single leader might put India in a difficult situation in a future political crisis. If the BNP succeeds in reviving itself before the 2024 elections by mobilising Islamists and military officers disillusioned with Hasina — with Beijing and Islamabad’s support — that might complicate India’s Hasina-centric strategy.To be clear, India must continue supporting Hasina. But it should undertake a sustained mass outreach and political diversification in Bangladesh, including with moderate religious formations. The aim should be to develop something akin to a bipartisan consensus in Dhaka wherein all parties agree that good relations with India are their national interest.Avinash Paliwal teaches at SOAS, University of London and is the author of My Enemy’s Enemy: India in Afghanistan from the Soviet Invasion to the US WithdrawalThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/delhi-must-take-the-long-view-on-dhaka-101613311366664.html
15-02-2021||Today's||The significance of the upcoming state elections||Will the ongoing farm agitation change political equations in the country? The upcoming assembly elections in four states — Assam, West Bengal, Kerala and Tamil Nadu — and the Union Territory of Puducherry could provide some answers. In any event, these elections are of significant political import.In Assam, the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government had made provisions for the controversial National Register of Citizens (NRC) and the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) at the beginning of its second term. This resulted in a range of protests across the country, the most notable one being at Shaheen Bagh in Delhi. Subsequently, the Delhi riots took place, which led to the loss of dozens of lives.The provisions were meant to address the issue of the influx of Bangladeshi migrants. But it soon became evident that the laws would affect not just Bangladeshi migrants but also natives of Assam. The government was forced to put the proposals on hold, but with elections around the corner, these issues have come into the spotlight again in the state.Will the Congress-led coalition, which was in power in the state till 2016, be able to assume power in Guwahati? As in other states, the grand old party is facing internal strife as it takes on the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) with its strong platform of majoritarian nationalism. The BJP’s veteran leaders such as party president JP Nadda and home minister Amit Shah are going all out to ensure the party’s victory. Prime Minister Narendra Modi himself has begun addressing rallies in the state.In West Bengal, the BJP is facing an aggressive Trinamool Congress with a feisty Mamata Banerjee at the helm. This is why the BJP, with considerable foresight, deployed a fiery leader such as Kailash Vijayvargiya in the state five years ago. He has been able to win over several leaders considered loyal to Mamata Banerjee to the BJP. The BJP’s signature move under Amit Shah has been the fracturing of local parties during elections. It has been relentlessly holding rallies and raising the issue of what it terms the Trinamool’s politics of “minority appeasement”. The BJP’s aggression has paid off and it is the Trinamool’s main rival today. The Congress and the Left hardly feature in the fray. However, it is still not all smooth sailing for the BJP given the hurdles that the Trinamool will put in its way.About 62% of Bengal’s voters are in nine of its 23 districts. Of the total of 294 assembly seats, 185 are in these nine districts. These will dictate the course of the election. The Trinamool claims that the BJP is shaky in these districts. About 30% of the state’s voters are Muslims. Once Left supporters, they have largely shifted their loyalties to Mamata Banerjee. But, now Asaduddin Owaisi’s All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen has made an entry into Bengal after its impressive performance in Bihar earlier. Will this have an effect on the Muslim vote?In Kerala, over the last 40 years, the state has voted alternatively for the Left Democratic Front (LDF) and the United Democratic Front (UDF). Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi represents the Wayanad seat in the Lok Sabha, giving the party some cause for hope. But the LDF has performed well in many areas over the last five years. It did well in handling the floods of 2018, 2019 and 2020 and its initial handling of the Covid-19 pandemic was impressive.The Congress and Left are rivals here, though they have come together in other places in the country. This may be confusing for the voters but, then again, such political conundrums are nothing new to India.Tamil Nadu is going into the elections this time without stalwarts such as the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) leader J Jayalalithaa and the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) leader M Karunanidhi. While Karunanidhi had handed over the reins of the party to his son MK Stalin, the AIADMK has no successor to Jayalalithaa. This has made it prone to internal rifts and vulnerable to poaching by other parties. The announcement by Jayalalithaa’s long-time companion, Sasikala — after her release from jail in Bengaluru — that she is entering politics has complicated the picture. But it is not clear how much support she enjoys in the party or how effective she will be in improving its electoral prospects.While the Lok Sabha elections are still far away, each assembly election going forward will have a bearing on national politics. After all, 116 Members of Parliament (MPs) come from these five states. Muslims make up 28 to 32% of the electorate in Kerala, West Bengal and Assam. This gives the BJP the opportunity to play the politics of polarisation, but it equally gives the Congress a chance to consolidate its old voter base. These five states are also going to shape the destiny of the Left and regional parties. While many things are still up in the air, one thing is certain: These elections will have a crucial bearing on the politics of the future and will provide much fodder to political analysts.Shashi Shekhar is the editor-in-chief, HindustanThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-significance-of-the-upcoming-state-elections-101613311364294.html
15-02-2021||Editorials||Republicans falter, yet again, on Trump | HT Editorial||Donald Trump will go down in history as the only United States (US) president to have faced impeachment proceedings twice, and the only one to have been subject to impeachment even after demitting office. The Senate acquitted him on Saturday — a conviction would have disqualified him from running for public office — but this was a function of Republican senators unwilling to antagonise their hardline pro-Trump base. Fifty-seven senators, including seven Republicans, found Mr Trump guilty of “incitement of insurrection”, but this fell short of the required two-thirds majority.There was a view that since Mr Trump was no longer in office, the impeachment was a distraction, and it was time to look ahead. But this takes away from the fact that holding Mr Trump accountable for undermining the sacred democratic tenet of peaceful transfer of power, and then encouraging a violent attack on the home of US democracy, was an ethical and political imperative. It also offered an opportunity to the Republican leadership to make a decisive break with Mr Trump; send a signal to supporters that political contestation must take place within democratic rules of the game; and chart out a new political trajectory of moderate Right-of-Centre politics — rather than the far-Right politics represented by Mr Trump.But clearly, the Republican leadership did not want to take the risk. It wanted to hold on to Mr Trump’s base while pretending to wash its hands of his actions. The costs of this strategy have already become clear, and a clean break was essential to bring America back to normal politics and boost the faith of the world in US democracy. The Republicans failed, yet again.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/republicans-falter-yet-again-on-trump-hteditorial-101613311424856.html
15-02-2021||Editorials||The lessons from Pulwama | HT Editorial||Two years ago, on February 14, the terror outfit, Jaish-e-Mohammad, attacked a Central Reserve Police Force convoy in south Kashmir’s Pulwama, killing 40 security personnel. The attack provoked a strong Indian response in the form of the Balakot airstrike at a terror camp, an aerial incursion by Pakistan into Indian territory, the capture and subsequent release of an Indian fighter pilot, and eventually shaped the course of the Lok Sabha elections. The government framed the airstrike as a continuation of the surgical strike after Uri in 2016, and portrayed it as an example of “new India’s” tough approach to terror.There is now enough distance to look back at the event — and the larger Indian policy on terrorism. There is little doubt that like preceding governments, the Narendra Modi government has taken a strong position against cross-border terror. It has also gone a step forward in determining that unless there are costs inflicted on Pakistan for its continued support to terrorists, the incentive structure for Pakistan’s military-intelligence complex — which protect these groups — won’t change. This has taken the form of aggressive Indian diplomacy at the Financial Action Task Force, a military response to terror attacks, cutting off official dialogue with Islamabad unless it shows tangible action in terms of cracking down on terror, putting the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (Saarc) in deep freeze and evolving regional mechanisms which don’t include Pakistan, and continued international mobilisation against Islamabad-Rawalpindi’s dubious ways. Coupled with more effective internal security mechanisms, this has had the impact of forcing Pakistan to think hard before it engages in its adventurism.At the same time, the Pulwama-Balakot episode showed the danger of both sides stepping on to an escalatory spiral, with unpredictable consequences. India may have conventional military superiority and has done well in calling Pakistan’s nuclear bluff. But, at a time when India faces a threat from China, and the situation in Kashmir remains fragile, this strategy must be used in a calibrated manner. It is also important to recognise the heterogeneity within Pakistan, and perhaps have a form of back-channel dialogue mechanism to ensure that events don’t spiral out of control. Responding to terror is essential; ensuring this response is smart and proportionate remains equally important.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-lessons-from-pulwama-hteditorial-101613311365487.html
