16-02-2021||Chandigarh||Walk-in OPD reopens for Chandigarh residents at GMCH||After 11 months, the walk-in outpatient department (OPD) at Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, reopened on Tuesday.For now, only patients from the city are eligible for counter registrations, while those from outside Chandigarh will have to go through the screening process via teleconsultation. “The number of patients was comparatively low on the first day. However, it is expected to rise in coming days and arrangements are being made accordingly,” Dr Ravi Gupta, medical superintendent, GMCH-32, said.GMCH has said that since the threat of Covid has yet not fully receded, crowding of the hospital where mostly immunocompromised patients visit needs to be restricted.A total of 711 patients were seen at the OPD, including 268 new ones. However, Chandigarh-specific data was not shared by the hospital.The situation is expected to be reviewed after a week. In the war room meeting last week, the UT administrator had directed the city hospitals to restore normalcy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/walkin-opd-reopens-for-chandigarh-residents-at-gmch-101613499418127.html
16-02-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad plans one more mop-up Covid vaccination round for health-care workers||Ghaziabad: The district health department, which is struggling to improve turnout for Covid-19 vaccination, has decided to conduct an additional mop-up round on February 19 for 5,371 health-care workers. The decision was taken after the first mop-up round conducted on Monday for left out health workers recorded a very poor coverage of nearly 20%, officials said.During the mop-up round on February 15, only 1405 beneficiaries, out of listed 6,776 health-care workers, opted to get vaccinated, the officials said. Also, on February 15, 309 of 379 identified health workers, who had received their first dose during the inaugural session of January 16, got their second shot and their coverage stood at 81.53%.The department has decided that they will conduct one more mop-up round where they will devote 30 sessions for health workers and also similar number of sessions for front-line workers who will get their first dose. “February 19 will also be the day when those who received the first dose on January 22 will come to get second dose. On the same day, we will conduct a final mop-up round for remaining health workers who have so far not arrived to take up their first dose,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer. According to the officials, the district has a total of 24,340 health-care workers and about 19,100 front-line workers whose vaccination round is presently in progress. Of 24,340 health workers, 18,969 have received vaccine while only 4,138 front-line workers have opted for getting the shots. The front-line workers include personnel of police and central police forces, home guards, jail staff and staff of Nagar Palikas, among others. During the nine rounds of vaccination, including one mop-up round, from January 16 to February 15, the district has an overall coverage of 77.93% of health workers and 45.73% (4,138 of 9,047 mapped) front-line workers so far. “The low turnout of front-line workers is a cause of concern. But we have requested respective departments to increase awareness and also take steps suggested by the state officials in their recent communication. The mop- up round for front-line workers is scheduled for February 22. We intend to start the vaccination for third category of beneficiaries from March 15 and will vaccinate them over a period of six months,” Dr Gupta added. The third category is of people aged over 50 years and also those aged below but having issues like diabetes, cancer, high blood pressure, etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-plans-one-more-mop-up-covid-vaccination-round-for-health-care-workers-101613499357377.html
16-02-2021||City||Kerala CM asks job aspirants not to fall into opposition's trap, end agitation||As the two-week-long agitation of the job aspirants outside the state secretariat intensified, Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday broke his silence and asked agitating youth not to fall into the trap of the opposition parties. He urged them to withdraw their agitation.Listing out long statistics, the CM said the government has done everything possible and inducted maximum candidates in service and asked the youth not to become a pawn in the hands of opposition parties.The chief minister said that during the tenure of the present government, 44,000 fresh posts were created and 1.59 lakh appointment orders were given.“The opposition is playing with fire by provoking youngsters. They are spreading canards and concocted stories to mislead job aspirants. Youngsters should realise this election stunt and withdraw stir,” he said, adding that it was impossible to give job opportunities to all who figured in the rank list of public service commission. He also denied reports that there were enough back door entries in government service to block opportunities for genuine candidates.Also read: Kiran Bedi removed as Puducherry LG amid political crisis in Union territory“They are spreading studded lies. The government did not do anything to compromise chances of real aspirants,” he said.The CM’s press conference came in the wake of the secretariat witnessing moving scenes. On Monday, some of the aspirants crawled on their knees and collapsed. When former CM Oommen Chandy came to meet them at the protest venue, some of them fell on his feet pleading his intervention. Last week, two candidates had threatened self-immolation. The CM took a dig at Chandy saying he should have fallen on the feet of youngsters for scuttling many appointments during his tenure.Agitating youth, however, rejected the CM’s demand and said they will continue their stir till they get justice. “We have no politics. We are not kids to fall into the hands of some parties. We don’t want the CM to reel out old statistics, he has to address our woes,” said one of the leaders Laya Rajesh. She said due to Covid-19, many appointments were frozen and they want to extend the tenure of their rank list.Amid protest on Monday, the government had decided to give permanent posting to 221 people who were working on a temporary basis. While the government insisted that these temporary workers were inducted on a humanitarian basis, rank holders alleged that party affiliation was the main criteria and their appointments were illegal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kerala-cm-asks-job-aspirants-not-to-fall-into-opposition-s-trap-end-agitation-101613499221425.html
16-02-2021||Noida||DPR of Heritage City project likely to be ready by May||GREATER NOIDA: The Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (Yeida) has finalised CBRE South Asia as consultant to prepare a detailed project report (DPR) for ‘Heritage City’, an urban zone to be developed at Raya in Mathura. The DPR for the project is likely to be ready by May this year, Yeida officials said on Tuesday.“CBRE has started work on Heritage City DPR. Once the consultant submits its report on this ambitious project, we will take further action after due consultation with the UP government. CBRE has been given three months to submit DPR,” said Arun Vir Singh, chief executive officer, Yeida.A total of six firms were in race but CBRE South Asia Private Limited was selected to prepare DPR, the authority officials said. In December last year, the authority had started the process to hire an agency for the Heritage City project. Yeida has proposed to develop the Heritage City at a small town Raya with an aim to promote tourism and create opportunities in this region. The city will spread over 9,000 hectares of area along the Yamuna Expressway. The Yamuna river front will be beautified on the lines of Gomti river front project and the remaining land will be developed as industrial, residential, commercial and mixed-land uses in this town, the officials said.However, the authority is yet to hire a consultant for DPR of a logistics hub proposed in Tappal-Bajna area, the officials said, adding that a total of 11 agencies have shown interest for the hub.“We are yet to open their bids and finalise an agency that will start work on DPR of logistics hub,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/dpr-of-heritage-city-project-likely-to-be-ready-by-may-101613499297439.html
16-02-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh sees hottest February day in 3 years||Maximum temperature in Chandigarh went up to 27°C on Tuesday, the highest for a February day since it was recorded at 29°C on the last day of the month in 2018. Meanwhile, minimum temperature went up from Monday’s 9.8°C to 10.3°C. According to India Meteorological Department (IMD), the mercury is likely to rise further in the coming days.Maximum temperature has been on the rise since the formation of dense fog ceased in the city on February 13, when it was recorded at 23.5°C. It stood at 26°C on Monday.“With no fog and clear skies, sunlight is warming up the city. We can now say the winters are over. With the higher intensity of sunlight, temperature can further rise by a notch or two in the coming days,” said Surender Paul, director, IMD, Chandigarh.Spells of dense fog are overPaul said tough there is a possibility of mist or shallow fog in open areas, spells of dense fog are over this season. For the past three days, visibility has remained between two to four kilometers in the morning.Meanwhile, dry days are likely to continue. A fresh system of western disturbance is likely to affect the region between February 21 and 22, but it is unlikely to bring rain.In the next three days, maximum temperature will remain around 27°C while minimum temperature will remain around 11°C, according to the weather bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-sees-hottest-february-day-in-3-years-101613498998267.html
16-02-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali MC polls: Repolling ordered at two booths||Punjab state election commission on Tuesday ordered repolling at two booths in ward number 10 of the Mohali municipal corporation, from where Amarjeet Singh Sidhu, brother of health and family welfare minister Balbir Singh Sidhu, is the Congress candidate. Repolling will take place from 8am to 4pm on Wednesday. Resultantly, counting of votes polled in all 50 wards of the Mohali MC will now be held on Thursday. However, counting for seven municipal councils in the district will be held as scheduled on Wednesday.Paramjeet Singh Kahlon, Azad group candidate from Ward No. 10, had lodged a complaint with the state election commission (SEC) against Amarjeet Singh, demanding repolling in the ward. In his complaint, he alleged that on Sunday, Congress workers captured booths in Phase 7 in connivance with police, who he claimed forcibly removed his polling agents from there. Kahlon also moved the Punjab and Haryana high court, which has sought response on allegations by February 18.Action on basis of SDM’s summary inquiryAn official spokesperson of the SEC said that the commission has received a report from the subdivisional magistrate-cum-returning officer through the deputy commissioner, in which irregularities have been pointed out during polling while suggesting repolling in booth numbers 32 and 33 of Ward No. 10. Deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan confirmed that the summary inquiry conducted by the returning officer following Kahlon’s complaint on Monday has substantiated the allegations. “Since an error/ irregularity in procedure is likely to vitiate the poll committed at a polling station under Section 59 (c) of the Punjab State Election Commission Act, 1994, so as mandated by the Act, the matter was brought to the notice of the SEC for further necessary action,” he said, adding that the sanctity and integrity of the poll process is paramount and should be above any suspicion or doubts. A detailed inquiry has also been ordered to look into the irregularities committed at the two polling booths, he said, adding that on its basis, action as warranted under law will be taken against the guilty with intimation to the commission.Reacting to the SEC’s decision, Balbir Singh Sidhu claimed the Congress will win with a record margin from the ward in question. Sidhu said, like all others wards, elections were held in a peaceful, free and fair manner in Ward No. 10. He alleged a candidate, upset over his apparent defeat, made false complaints to the SEC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-mc-polls-repolling-ordered-at-two-booths-101613498938068.html
16-02-2021||Chandigarh||Greater Mohali development authority sells 45% sites in e-auction||After a torrid time over the past year, Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) saw nearly half of its properties, both commercial and residential, finding buyers in a 15-day e-auction that concluded on Monday evening.The authority sold 31 of the 70 sites on auction, and earned ₹544 crore against the total reserve price of ₹794 crore. All commercial sites were sold at AerocityIn the previous auction held in December last year, out of 78 properties, only 10 were sold for ₹134 crore.A commercial site of 10.2 acres in Aerocity went for ₹310 crore against the reserve price of ₹305 crore, while a residential plot of 1,000 square yards in Sector 78 went for ₹5.55 crore against the reserve price of ₹3.3 crore. A 1-acre petrol pump site in Aerocity went for ₹22 crore against the reserve price of ₹17 crore. Of eight IT plots in Sectors 83 Alpha and 101 Alpha, seven were sold, with one measuring 10,502 square yards going for ₹14.35 crore against the reserve price of ₹14.07 crore. Out of 27 booths in various parts of the city, only one in sector 54 found a buyer. It was sold for ₹86 lakh against the reserve price of ₹83 lakh. There were no takers for a school site in Eco City and a group housing society in Sector 67. “It was a successful auction and shows the realty market is reviving. We are hopeful that in the next auction, we will be able to sell all our sites,” said Pradeep Aggarwal, chief administrator, GMADA.Shailander Anand, former president, Mohali Property Consultants Association, also expressed satisfaction over the auction. “The response was good, and now we can hope for a boom in the realty market. We request GMADA to slash its reserve price further as it will generate a healthy competition and help it earn bigger profits,” he said.Draw of lots for 289 plots in Eco City-2 on Feb 22 GMADA will also be holding a draw of lots for 289 residential plots at Eco City-2, New Chandigarh, on February 22. GMADA had launched the scheme in December last year. An official spokesperson said the list of eligible applicants has already been uploaded on gmada.gov.in and the draw of lots will be held on Monday at the community centre, Purab Premium Apartments, Sector 88, Mohali, at 11am. He informed that the results of the draw will be uploaded on the official website on February 23. Notably, GMADA had offered residential plots in size of 200, 300, 400, 450, 500, 1,000 and 2,000 square yards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/greater-mohali-development-authority-sells-45-sites-in-eauction-101613498699337.html
16-02-2021||Noida||Man acquitted of rape after complainant retracts||The Gautam Budh Nagar district court on Tuesday acquitted a man after the complainant said she had lodged a false rape case in 2019.The 24-year-old man was booked for rape at Rabupura police station based on his 18-year-old cousin’s complaint. She had claimed that she was alone at home when the man raped her. She claimed that the man had sexually abused her multiple times that year.The man was arrested soon after and he got bail after few months.Later in 2020, however, the woman retracted her statement and said that she had lodged a fake case to get back at her maternal uncle who had had an argument with her mother.The woman’s maternal grandfather who was a witness in the case too turned hostile.“Additional District Judge Anil Kumar has acquitted the accused of charges under Indian Penal Code sections 376 (rape) and 506 (criminal intimidation),” said Neetu Bishnoi, Special Public Prosecution Officer. The court did not order any action against the woman for her false complaint.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/man-acquitted-of-rape-after-complainant-retracts-101613498697357.html
16-02-2021||Noida||Residents slip anti-stress pills into dog food to calm strays||With incidents of dogs biting people, residents of Noida sector 34 said they were slipping anti-stress medicines into food for stray canines. Animal feeders said that this was a tried and tested method that worked. While there is no census data on the number of stray dogs or community dogs, the Noida Authority claims they sterilise 1,200 streets dogs a month. Sector 34 residents’ welfare association (RWA) said they had urged the authority to initiate a special sterilisation drive in their area as well. “So far there were 15 cases of dog bites here this month alone. The latest victim was a seven-year-old girl who was attacked on Monday. Often it happens that such incidents leads to heated arguments and even clashes between the animal lovers and victims. So with the help of experts we have decided to include medicines to allay the animals’ aggression and get them all vaccinated,” said KK Jain, president, sector 34, RWA. The RWA said they consulted vets to procure the medicines. “The government rules are such that we cannot do much to allay the anger of people who or whose loved ones were attacked. We cannot relocate dogs either, so we have decided to live along with them. We are deploying a medicine called Anxocare into food that feeders leave for them,” Dharmendra Sharma, General Secretary RWA sector 34. “It has helped.”The RWA said they would vaccinate the dogs as well to prevent rabies. “We will tie up with NGOs for that. It will cost ₹400 to vaccinate a dog, while the calming medicine costs ₹150 a pack that can cover eight to 10 dogs a week,” said Sharma. The RWA had recently also held a special awareness session on do’s and don’ts to avoid dog aggression or spooking them. “Feeders have been using the nerve calming medicine for dogs for years, and it’s good that now RWAs are coming along and considering it. The dogs often get aggressive when being cornered or hit by anyone. If suppose a dog is hit by a guard, it will have an aggressive stance for any human. We need to understand that,” said Rafat Ahmed, a dog feeder heling the RWA and runs an NGO named animal connect. Sector -34 has about 3500 families – roughly 20,000 residents. While there is no census on the number of street dogs, the RWA estimates there must be over 200 street dogs while the authority pegs the number to be around 500. “We have a roster prepared under which sectors are selected, dogs are sterilised and left at the same spot where they were picked from. We are sterilising about 1200 dogs every month in Noida, and working on initiating a drive in sector-34 soon,” said Gaurav Bansal, assistant project engineer, public health, Noida Authority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/residents-slip-anti-stress-pills-into-dog-food-to-calm-strays-101613498697923.html
16-02-2021||Noida||Liquor smugglers arrested in Greater Noida west||Noida: Police arrested two men for allegedly smuggling liquor in Greater Noida West on Monday. The suspects were identified as West Bengal native 30-year-old Lukash Hasda and Bulandshahr native 32-year-old Ashok Kumar. Police said they seized 90 bottles of illegal liquor from them too.The suspect would allegedly buy liquor in Haryana and sell them in western Uttar Pradesh districts. Munish Chauhan, SHO Bisrakh police station, said they made the arrests while conducting checks near Galaxy Vega roundabout on Monday evening. “The police checked their bags and found the Haryana brand liquor,” he said. The suspects allegedly told police they were tenants in Greater Noida and smuggled cheap liquor from Haryana. “They used to buy liquor at cheap rates in Haryana and sold them to people in Greater Noida, Bulandshahr, Meerut, etc,” said police. A case was registered against them under Sections 60 and 63 of the Excise Act. They were produced in court and sent to judicial custody. In another case, a 25-year-old man was arrested with 48 bottles of illegal liquor in Bisrakh. The suspect was identified by his first name as Karan, a resident of Meerut. Police said that the suspect was walking with illegal liquor and looking for customers. “The police team searched his bag and found 48 bottle illegal liquor of Punjab brand,” Chauhan said. A case under Excise Act was also registered against him. He was produced in court and sent to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/liquor-smugglers-arrested-in-greater-noida-west-101613498637401.html
16-02-2021||Gurugram||DTCP to take over 17 project sites after cancellation of licences||The department of town and country planning(DTCP) has decided to take over 17 commercial and residential project sites after their licences were cancelled due to non-payment of external development charges(EDC), incomplete works, apart for other reasons in the last one year. The senior town planner has given directions to town planning officials to ensure that no construction or development takes place at these project sites spread across the city. DTCP officials said they have also written letters to the district administration to enter the details of the cancelled licences in the revenue records of the department so that no registration of sales or lease deed can take place in the land for which licenses have been cancelled. A senior DTCP official said that they have also started the assessment of these projects and sought the details regarding the number of buyers, inventory of the project and third-party rights, which have been created. “The records are being scrutinised and we are also keeping a close watch on these sites to ensure that there is no sale or purchase of units. In many cases, the builders have gone incommunicado and we are finding difficult to get information on the projects,” he said. The developers of these projects, which include both residential and commercial ones, have been asked to share information and notices have been issued to them, said officials. RS Bhath, district town planner (enforcement) Gurugram said that transactions are not allowed in these projects. “We will be keeping a close watch,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/dtcp-to-take-over-17-project-sites-after-cancellation-of-licences-101613498579460.html
16-02-2021||Gurugram||Fire department proposes tech upgrades, new stations to reduce response time||In a bid to reduce response time, officials have proposed to install GPS trackers in all fire tenders and link them to the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority’s (GMDA) integrated command control centre. Further, the proposal to set up four fire stations to provide proper coverage to newer sectors has also moved forward.Officials of the fire department and GMDA said that this would notify the command centre about the ground situation and in case a fire tender is stuck in a jam, another vehicle could be sent via a different route so that there is no delay in response.“Often, our fire tenders get stuck in snarls and hence, get delayed in reaching the site of a fire. A tracker would help give us this information on a real-time basis and we can accordingly send a fresh batch of fire tenders through less congested routes,” said IS Kashyap, assistant divisional fire safety officer.The fire department has 25 fire tenders located at its fire stations in Sector 29, Sector 37, Bhim Nagar, and Udyog Vihar. Kashyap said that the matter of making all fire tenders GPS-enabled was discussed in a meeting with GMDA officials last week.“The matter was discussed with both representatives of the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) as well as the fire department. We want it to operate on similar lines as the police control room, which relays all complaints or distress calls to the nearest PCR vehicle. We want to build a similar system, where the official at the command control centre relays any fire incident to the nearest fire station or fire tender,” said a senior GMDA official who had attended the meeting.The official said that the proposal is currently at a nascent stage and its outlines are being chalked out.“For this system to function, we will have to create or make alterations to the existing software at the command centre. We will figure out the best way to make it operational in the coming weeks and subsequently, draft a comprehensive project model,” the official cited above said. Besides the GMDA, Kashyap also said that the state government is planning on making all fire tenders GPS-enabled across Haryana. “Soon after the GMDA meeting, we learnt that the Haryana government is also planning on enabling all fire tenders across the state with GPS and they are also in the process of starting an assessment survey in this regard. The proposal has been floated at both the district and state levels, and whichever process is done earlier, will be implemented in Gurugram,” said Kashyap.Kashyap also said that a proposal sent to the Haryana Shahri Vikas Pradikharan (HSVP) in Gurugram by MCG in February last year for seeking land in sectors 9, 9A, 23A, 43 for setting up new fire stations has moved forward. The Gurugram fire department comes under the ambit of MCG.Kashyap said that due to the coronavirus outbreak, the matter was put on the back burner. “The proposal has just recently been cleared by the Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) within Gurugram and has been sent to the HSVP headquarters for final approval. The city has expanded a lot over the last decade and the existing four fire stations do not provide proper coverage, especially to those living in the newer sectors (sectors 58-115). Hence, new fire stations are urgently needed to reduce response time to such areas,” said Kashyap.The latest fire station to be opened in the city is in Udyog Vihar, in April 2012.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/fire-department-proposes-tech-upgrades-new-stations-to-reduce-response-time-101613498578866.html
16-02-2021||Gurugram||Vehicles line up at Kherki Daula toll plaza as payments go digital||A traffic jam stretching for more than a kilometre was witnessed at the Kherki Daula toll plaza on the Delhi-Jaipur Expressway (NH-48) during the morning peak hours on Tuesday, as all toll plazas in the country switched to digital-only payments through FASTags. The concessionaire, Millennium City Expressway Private Limited (MCEPL), deployed toll collectors with hand-held machines to read tags faster. The reason for the heavy jam, said highway and traffic officials, was that a large number of vehicles without the tags had entered designated FASTag lanes, slowing down traffic considerably in the morning. However, the situation normalised later in the day, with slight congestion reported from 5pm to 6.30pm. To ensure that commuters without tags were able to pay the penalty in minimum time, the toll officials were asked by the police to deploy toll collectors with hand-held machines. The vehicular movement was slow but remained in control, barring the peak hours, said police. The police said that a tractor-trolley also overturned just ahead of the toll plaza on Tuesday morning, which compounded the situation. Commuters, meanwhile, said the 25-lane Kherki Daula toll plaza continues to be a bottleneck on the expressway and despite several trial runs and campaigns, the authorities have failed to find solutions. A recent spurt in traffic on the expressway increased the severity of congestion. The number of vehicles crossing the toll has reached 80,000 daily, around 20,000 more than the number a week ago. Motorists said that it took almost 30 minutes to cross the toll plaza on Tuesday. The worst-affected were the daily commuters and employees working in the industrial townships of Manesar, Dharuhera, and Bhiwadi. Sumit Kumar, a resident of DLF Phase-2 and a daily commuter, said that despite having a FASTag, he had to wait for more than 20 minutes to cross the toll. “The FASTag lanes are also congested as people without tags enter these lanes and are ready to pay penalty, resulting in congestion,” he said. Another tag user said that there were no arrangements to ensure smooth movement of the tag holders, despite the system becoming completely digital. “It’s been more than three years that I have been using this stretch and nothing has changed. Peak hours are the most challenging as there is always congestion, even on public holidays. The marshals are rude and do not respond well when we object to other vehicles using the tag lanes,” said Amit Jha, a resident of Sector 10A. MCEPL officials, however, said that the situation remained under control. A senior official, requesting anonymity, said that congestion was witnessed only during the peak hours as vehicles without tags entered the designated lanes. “There was also a minor accident involving a tractor-trolley, but, overall, the situation was under control. We appeal to people to maintain balance in their tags as our purpose is to have digital compliance and not penalties. Those who haven’t adopted FASTags should get these installed,” the official said.Highway officials said that many were ready to pay the double penalty but not ready to buy the FASTags.KK Rao, the commissioner of police, said that the police deployed 100 personnel on both carriageways to manage the traffic movement. “We have deployed two assistant commissioners of police and asked them to monitor the vehicular movements for the first few days. Around 10 FASTags kiosks were set up to ensure commuters who do not have these stickers can get them at the spot and the marshals of the toll operator were guiding them to opt for digital payments instead of paying a penalty,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/vehicles-line-up-at-kherki-daula-toll-plaza-as-payments-go-digital-101613498577476.html
16-02-2021||Gurugram||25-year-old man robbed of mobile phone, cash in Sector 37||A 25-year-old staffer of an electronics store on Golf Course Road was allegedly assaulted and robbed of his mobile phone and ₹5,000 cash after three men on a motorcycle intercepted his way in Sector 37 while he was returning home on Monday night.The victim alleged that they punched him on his face and thrashed him at an underpass near a vegetable market in Sector 37 around 11.30pm on Sunday night and fled with his belongings. Police Divyansh Tiwari, a native of Kannauj in Uttar Pradesh, lives in a rented accommodation in Sector 37 area and works at a mall on Golf Course Road. On Sunday night, after finishing his shift he boarded an auto rickshaw and got down at Hero Honda Chowk. “I was walking down towards my house when three men on a motorbike intercepted my way and started abusing and hitting me. They asked me to hand over my belongings. Otherwise, they said, they would kill me. One of them was directing them to take out a gun and kill me,” he said. Fearing for his life, Tiwari did not raise alarm but noted down the registration number of the motorbike while they were leaving. The police said the number belonged to Madhya Pradesh. Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime), said that this is the sixth such incident reported from the city in the last 10 days. “These three bike-borne men are targeting people carrying bags and rob them of their mobile phones, gold chains and cash. We are scanning CCTV footage of a few locations in Sector 37, South City 2, Sector 50, Sector 14 and Palam Vihar to identify the suspects,” he said. A case under sections 379 B (punishment for snatching) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code(IPC) was registered at Sector 37 police station on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/25yearold-man-robbed-of-mobile-phone-cash-in-sector-37-101613498578221.html
16-02-2021||Gurugram||Man held with consignment of illegal drugs worth ₹1 lakh at Sector 29 parking lot||A 28-year-old man was arrested in Sector 29 on Monday night from his car for allegedly possessing illicit psychotropic substances worth over ₹1 lakh.The police recovered 16 grams of methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA), an illicit psychotropic substance commonly known as ecstasy, worth ₹1 lakh. The substance is illegally used for recreational purposes, said police. Besides, 600 grams of marijuana and 12 grams of hashish, worth ₹50,000, were also recovered from his possession.Akhilesh Sharma, a resident of Block C of Sushant Lok-2, was arrested by the crime investigation agency (CIA) of Sector 39. The police said that the drugs, in small packets, were to be supplied to another dealer.Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime), said that Sharma used to run a fast food joint in Suncity residential area in Sector 54 since 2017, but had to shut it due to losses during the lockdown. “He faced a financial crunch, due to which he met a few drug peddlers who used to get supply from Delhi to sell in Gurugram,” he said.The police said that he is a hotel management graduate and lived with his mother, who was unaware of his illegal trade.Sangwan said he was supplying drugs to pubs, bars, restaurants, clubs and farmhouses for parties and made nearly ₹3 lakh per month. “He was selling MDMA at ₹6,000 per gram for high-end parties at farmhouses and clubs,” he said.Sharma was produced before a court on Tuesday and sent to judicial custody till February 28.A team of plainclothes police made the arrest after being tipped off about drug trade. The CIA team raided the black Creta SUV around 11.30pm.Officials said that a search of the vehicle was conducted in the presence of the suspect, and the drugs were found concealed in one-gram pouches in the car boot.Sangwan said that as per a preliminary investigation, Sharma used to supply drugs even during the lockdown. “He saw the pandemic as an opportunity to earn money as those who consumed it would not hesitate to pay him two to three times the regular price,” he said.The police said they are scanning Sharma’s phone calls and contact details to know about his associates and clients, and are also investigating his bank accounts and transactions. Sharma was booked under sections 20 (B) (ii) (A), 16 and 21 of the Narcotics Drug and Psychotropic Substances Act at the Sector 29 police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/man-held-with-consignment-of-illegal-drugs-worth-rs-1-lakh-at-sector-29-parking-lot-101613498518727.html
16-02-2021||Gurugram||No scaling down of Covid-19 tests despite low case count, says health department||Despite the Covid-19 spread ebbing to its lowest since last May, health department officials have said that there will be no further scaling down of tests in the district. A minimum of 2,500 tests per day, with 95 percent of them being RT-PCR (Real-time Polymerase Chain Reaction) tests, will be conducted daily even if the growth rate of new Covid-19 cases improves further in the coming weeks, officials confirmed on Tuesday. Officials also said they have discontinued antigen camps in the district, since rapid diagnostic tests — which are known to yield a larger number of false negatives than RT-PCR ones — have limited efficacy at this stage in the epidemic.In Gurugram — which is one of Haryana’s worst-hit districts — the daily growth rate of Covid-19 cases is down to 0.5 percent, with the test positivity rate(TPR) hovering just above 1 percent for at least two weeks now. At the height of the epidemic’s third wave in early November, the district’s total caseload was growing by almost 3 percent daily, with daily TPR at almost 25 percent. At that time, the district was conducting at least 6,000 tests per day, with about 80 percent of them being RT-PCR ones.“We were preferring to use more antigen tests because of limited resources, and because antigen positivity is an important indicator when you are trying to keep up with widespread transmission. Now we are more concerned with treating individual cases, for which the current rate of testing is sufficient,” said Dr. Virender Yadav, chief medical officer(CMO), Gurugram. “We are expecting new cases to slow down further before March-end, but in terms of tests we will keep conducting at least 2,500 to 3,000 tests every day. We will be able to make RT-PCR tests available more widely now, which is why antigen tests are being deprioritised,” Yadav added. Presently, official data shows that around 95 percent of all daily tests are RT-PCR in nature. “This is more than the centrally recommended ratio of 80 percent RT-PCR and 20 percent antigen. There is no rule which states that it is mandatory to conduct a certain amount of rapid antigen tests. We started scaling them down in early January itself, but camps were still being organised as a surveillance tool in some areas. They are no longer serving that purpose anymore,” said Dr Jai Prakash Sharma, district surveillance officer, Gurugram. This is also because there has been a significant drop in the number of walk-in tests at antigen camps organised in localities which until recently were regarded as hot spots for Covid-19. “In some areas, like Tigra and Patel Nagar, we would see dozens of people come in every day with symptoms. Now there are hardly any walk-ins. Contact tracing has once again become the main route to identify suspected cases,” said Sharma, adding that authorities are being able to trace at least six to seven contacts per positive case, as against just three contacts per case in November. However, Sharma clarified that contact tracing remains a challenge because people are far more mobile now. “The number of people each positive person interacts with is hard to figure out because everything has mostly opened up. People are meeting others quite freely. But we are doing better at following up with close contacts, which is the important part,” he said. Despite these changes in their epidemic response, officials also sad it would not be accurate to say that their strategy has changed. They maintained that they are simply adapting the existing guidelines to the changes in the ground reality of the district. “We have assigned more staffers toward the vaccine roll-out but that has not affected testing. The overall strategy is the same as that directed by the Central government, which is to trace contacts and enable access to tests for people who fall sick. If the ministry issues new guidelines on increasing or reducing tests, or changing the type of tests, we will follow them. The main thing is that our positivity rate remains below five percent,” said Dr Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/no-scaling-down-of-covid-19-tests-despite-low-case-count-says-health-department-101613498518054.html
16-02-2021||Noida||Five held for running a prostitution ring, robbing people||Noida: Five persons, including a couple and three women, were arrested on Tuesday for allegedly running a prostitution ring on the pretext of providing escort services and then robbing their customers.According to police officials, the suspects would advertise escort service facility online and once they got in contact with clients, they chatted with them to provide more services for which the rates varied.“They would fix a time and place to meet with prospective clients. Then they would take the customers in a car and either used violence to rob them or blackmail to extort money from them,” said Rajesh S, deputy commissioner of police, zone 1.The officials said that the gang was being run by a 27-year-old Assam-based woman and her 27-year-old husband from Uttar Pradesh. Three more women aged 35, 28 and 26 years were also arrested along with them. The couple was currently living in Delhi, police said.“After initiating contact with clients, the suspects would share photos of women who were available for various services and once the clients were lured, they would rob them. The operation came to the fore when one such client approached us to file a complaint against the gang. They were traced using technical surveillance and arrested today from near a park in Sector 54,” said the DCP.The police officials said that they have recovered multiple sets of social media chats of the suspects which also showed connections with other similar gangs. The suspects had been operating for the past two years in the Delhi-NCR and their meeting places with prospective clients included malls and markets, police said.Police also recovered a car from the suspects, along with several mobile phones, packets of contraceptives and ₹3,500 that was stolen from the complainant. They were booked at Sector 24 police station under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code.Police are now identifying other members of the gang and the cases in which they might be involved. Complainants take time coming forward due to social stigma, said police.The five suspects were produced before a magistrate and later sent to jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/five-held-for-running-a-prostitution-ring-robbing-people-101613498517320.html
16-02-2021||Noida||Murder suspect flees from police custody; arrested after six hours||Noida Police on Tuesday afternoon managed to arrest a 25-year-old murder suspect who had given them the slip only hours earlier.Police identified the suspect by a single name, Vijay, who they had first arrested after an alleged encounter in Greater Noida’s Surajpur on Monday night. He was taken to the Noida district hospital in sector 30 to be treated for a bullet injury. At around 9.30am, he went missing.“The suspect damaged the false ceiling in the first-floor washroom and climbed in. He was able to crawl his way through and make his way out and then down to the ground floor where he hid inside a wardrobe next to room 101,” said deputy commissioner of police (Noida central) Harish Chander. “During this time, the constable assigned to guard him was outside the washroom. He got suspicious when the man did not return. He raised the alarm when he realised that the suspect was no longer there. A police team then launched a search.”Six hours later, a police team found the suspect hidden inside the wardrobe.Vijay was wanted in the kidnapping and murder of four-year-old boy Hrithik Kumar of Gulistanpur village in Surajpur.The Surajpur police recorded the child missing from the evening of January 24 and began an investigation.While recording statements, the police came to know that two persons, Vijay and his 25-year-old flatmate Anil, had been missing from their rented accommodation since that day.Tarun, the victim’s uncle, said Vijay and his wife had shifted to the neighbourhood from Kannauj on January 13. “A few days later, Anil joined them. He too was from Kannauj. They used to play marbles with my nephew.”Police team searched the flat to find these marbles in one of the rooms.On February 13, Chander said, they arrested a man named Anil, 25, from Surajpur roundabout based on a tip.“He admitted that Vijay and he murdered the child for money,” he said. “They had heard that the boy’s father, who is the grocery business, had applied for a ₹8-lakh loan. Thinking they would be able to get some of that money, they abducted the boy for ransom.”But Vijay, after his arrest, allegedly told police that they feared arrest after the family approached the police and could not go ahead with making the ransom call. They strangled the boy and disposed his body behind a closed factory in Site B, 5 km from his home.Based on Anil’s alleged confession, police found the body.On Monday night, the police received a tip on Vijay. Near 130-m road in Surajpur, a police team signalled a motorcyclist to stop, but instead he fired at the team, said Chander.“In the counterfire, he was injured in his right leg,” he said, adding that they recovered a country-made gun and a live cartridge from him.Police said they had registered a case under the Indian Penal Code sections 363 (abduction) and 302 (murder) against Anil and Vijay. A magistrate sent both suspects were sent to 14-day judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/murder-suspect-flees-from-police-custody-arrested-after-six-hours-101613498457984.html
16-02-2021||Noida||Man held in Noida for providing fake degrees, certificates||Noida Police on Tuesday arrested a 60-year-old man for allegedly producing and selling fake university degrees and certificates.Ghaziabad resident Abdul Samad had allegedly been in the business for 15 years. “He had also gone to jail previously from Ghaziabad for a similar offence but once he got out after he served his sentence he continued this business,” said Anita Chauhan, station house officer, Phase 2 police station. “He mostly made degrees and certificates of private institutions. So far we don’t have evidence of these documents being used for government competitive exams.”She said that he charged clients depending on their financial status and ranged between ₹1000-8000. Police said that he had moved his operation from Ghaziabad to Noida. Based on a tip, police arrested him from near the BPL tri-junction and said they seized 49 sets of fake documents from him, including marksheets, and hardware used to print them. A search is on for his accomplice and police are also gathering information on his clients. Samad was booked for cheating, forgery and conspiracy (section 420, 467, 468, 471 and 34 of the Indian Penal Code) at the Phase 2 police station. He was then produced before a magistrate who sent him to 14-day judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/man-held-in-noida-for-providing-fake-degrees-certificates-101613498457421.html
16-02-2021||Noida||Farmers at UP Gate gear up to tackle summers||Now that the summer has started, farmers protesting at UP Gate are making arrangements, and the union leaders are meeting panchayats to garner the support of farmers across the National Capital Region (NCR).Around 2,000 to 2,500 farmers and people gathered at the protest site on Tuesday. They are taking part in the ongoing agitation on a rotational basis, according to the members of UP Gate farmers’ committee. The protesters have plans to deal with the increase in temperature, they said.“To ensure a good turnout, the dais will be entirely covered, and fans will be installed in a few days. Covered tents used during the winter will be removed and will set up new tents. The existing tents will be covered with haystacks. We have brought two big generators and will rope in more to run fans and desert coolers,” said Jagtar Singh Bajwa, a farmer leader from Uttarakhand and a member of UP Gate farmers’ committee.Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) national spokesperson Rakesh Tikait, who is spearheading the protests at UP Gate, conducted a panchayat with other farmer leaders and members of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha at Garhi Sampla in Rohtak on Tuesday.To keep the momentum of protesters at protest hotspots, Tikait asked people to protest at different sites, in groups. He also urged the central government to form an “agriculture cabinet”, which would focus on various issues faced by the farmers.“The farmers should have known that there is no ‘krishi mantralaya’ (agriculture ministry) or ‘krishi mantri’ ((agriculture minister) in the country. People and farmers are being deceived. Those who talk to us (government representatives) only have 18 per cent charge of the agriculture ministry. There are 17-18 other departments that look after issues impacting agriculture. So, we have asked the government to come up with an agriculture cabinet,” Tikait said.“There is no law on minimum support price (MSP) yet, but the godowns (corporate) have come up beforehand. The price of the crop will be decided on the basis of people’s hunger and this will affect the poor and the shopkeepers. There is a new trend of ‘bhook ka vyapar’ (business of hunger). We have to stop this, otherwise even dogs will die of hunger,” he added.“They will try to divide us (on the basis of caste, economic status and even on the regional basis), but you must stay strong. It is for the first time that the Sikhs have come with us and we will stay with them. We have got strong groups from Punjab and we have learnt a lot from them. It is a strong bond. It is high time that farmers from different states start meeting each other,” Tikait said.The protest, which primarily started as a farmers’ protest has now become a ‘Jan Andolan’ (public movement), he said.“It is because the prices are on the rise, and even the fuel rate is on the higher side. This will also affect the common people. People have been supporting us, and we are raising their issues as well,” Tikait said on Monday.Recently, questions were raised about the dip in the number of protesters at the UP Gate, which saw a massive surge ahead of the tractor rally on Republic Day (January 26) and following Tikait’s emotional appeal to the people to bring food and water for him on January 28.The farmers have been camping at the protest site near Uttar Pradesh Gate since November 28, 2020, demanding repeal of the farm laws, and a new law on minimum support price (MSP). As part of an offer, the Centre had proposed staying the implementation of the three controversial farm laws for one and half years. However, there’s a stalemate between the farmers and the central government continues, with no talks held since January 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/farmers-at-up-gate-gear-up-to-tackle-summers-101613498397372.html
16-02-2021||Other||Class 12 student killed outside Batala school over property dispute, 2 held||A class 12 student died soon after he was attacked by two persons allegedly over a property dispute outside his school at Ghuman village in the Batala sub-division of Gurdaspur district, the police said. Two of the nine persons against whom a case, including charges of murder, was registered, were arrested. The incident took place on Monday when Simrandeep Singh, 18, came out of Baba Namdev Senior Secondary School after appearing in his English examination. “His younger brother Harmandeep Singh was waiting for him on a bike to take him home. As the two were about to leave, two bike-borne youngsters came and attacked them with a ‘datar’ (a sharp-edged weapon),” the police said. Harmandeep, who also suffered minor injuries, somehow managed to escape and rushed to the local police station to inform the cops about the attack. The assailants fled from the spot, leaving him groaning in pain. Simrandeep, who suffered injuries on his head, neck and chest, was taken to a nearby hospital by the school staff but was declared brought dead by doctors, said the eyewitnesses. CCTV footage of the incident has surfaced, in which two persons are seen hitting the 18-year-old with the weapons. The assailants have not been identified yet, the police said. The family of the victim, who belongs to nearby Sellowal village, shifted to Hoshiarpur district six months ago over the alleged property dispute with their neighbours, it is learnt. He had come from Hoshiarpur to appear in the examination. Simrandeep’s father Hardev Singh, the complainant, accused his neighbour’s family of killing his son. Ghuman police station in-charge Surinder Singh said those arrested were identified as Harmanpreet Singh and Gurmeet Kaur. Batala senior superintendent of police (SSP) Rachhpal Singh said teams were conducting raids to nab the absconding accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/class-12-student-killed-outside-batala-school-over-property-dispute-2-held-101613498039595.html
16-02-2021||City||Amid pressure from striking transporters, Meghalaya govt slashes fuel prices||Faced with criticism from citizens and pressure from a two-week-long agitation by commercial vehicles, the Meghalaya Democratic Alliance (MDA) government reduced the prices of petrol and diesel by a little over ₹7 on Tuesday.Highly placed sources in the state secretariat said the public criticism, the 2-week-long stay off the road by commercial vehicles, a 2-day road blockade (with minimal impact) and a possible hunger strike outside the secretariat had a major role in the government rescinding its earlier decision to hike tax on petrol and diesel and instead reduce it.Although the government had earlier reduced the tax by ₹2, the opposition continued.Announcing this decision after a meeting on Tuesday, chief minister Conrad K Sangma said, “The government of Meghalaya has decided to reduce the Value Added Tax (VAT) for petrol and diesel by approximately ₹7.”He said that the move is primarily to ensure that the consumers are not affected by the high prices and to give some relief to them. Sangma said, “I am sure this will make the consumers of the state happy and even the commercial vehicles will also benefit from the reduction in the prices of petrol and diesel.”Presently, the price of petrol is ₹91.26 per litre while diesel is at ₹84.23 per litre compared to neighbouring Assam which stands at ₹86.25 for petrol and ₹80.41 for diesel per litre.“The price of petrol in Meghalaya would reduce from ₹91.26 to ₹85.86, a reduction of approximately ₹6 and if you were to include the earlier ₹2 that we have already reduced, it will come up to almost ₹7.4 per litre,” Sangma elaborated.“The cost of diesel would now be down to ₹79.13 from ₹84.23, a reduction of approximately ₹5 in diesel. Also, if you were to include ₹2 that was done initially, that would be approximately ₹7,” he added.Ri-Bhoi district which borders Assam has it a little cheaper when compared to Shillong. From ₹89.81, petrol is now at ₹84.76 while diesel will now cost ₹78.21 from the previous rate of ₹83.10.Also read: Kiran Bedi removed as Puducherry LG amid political crisis in Union territoryWith this reduction, the price of petrol and diesel in Meghalaya is now amongst the lowest in the country, confirmed M Aggarwal, owner of a chain of petrol pumps in the state.On the other hand, Sangma also said that the state has always maintained competitive pricing with Assam to ensure that the sales are not affected.“We are hopeful that with this, our sales also will go up and will be able to make up for some of the losses in the taxes that we may have incurred due to the reduction in the prices of both petrol and diesel,” he said.According to him, the VAT collected from petrol and diesel has helped the state which has faced lots of challenges due to the Covid-19 pandemic.Meanwhile, the chief minister said the revenue loss due to the reduction in the VAT collection from petrol and diesel will be approximately ₹20 crore every month.“I would also like to inform you that the revenue compared to last year, which was ₹326 crore, has increased. This year in January we touched ₹451 crore. Even though the revenue will come down, we expect that the overall revenue from VAT in the petrol and diesel will go up from ₹326 crore last year to at least ₹470 crore this year, so it is a jump of ₹140 crore but it would have been more if the prices had not come down,” he stated.Sangma ruled out any possibility of increasing passenger fares. “We had revised the passenger fares in 2020 and the revised fares will be applicable,” he emphasised.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/amid-pressure-from-striking-transporters-meghalaya-govt-slashes-fuel-prices-101613497252611.html
16-02-2021||Pune||Cop booked for sexual harassment||A police havaldar was booked on Monday for sexual harassment of a woman in the month of December 2020. While the havaldar is a 44-year-old married man, the complainant is a 29-year-old female who met him when she was visiting her family members who were locked up at the police station in January 2020. The mother and the brother of the woman were in the lock-up at Bundgarden police station in January 2020, when they told the man about their hunt for a groom for their daughter, according to police. “They got in touch over the phone and were heading to a lodge on December 24, 2020, but did not end up going there. However, on the way she alleges that he asked her to have intercourse with him and she refused,” said police inspector (crime) Abhay Mahajan of Bundgarden police station. The havaldar was posted out of the police station much before the case was registered. However, a report about the case being registered has been sent to the Pune police commissioner’s office. “Those two have been booked in similar cases in three police stations,” said another officer of the police station. A case under Section 354 of Indian Penal Code has been registered at Bundgarden police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/cop-booked-for-sexual-harassment-101613493477035.html
16-02-2021||Pune||Opposition demands offline meetings, BJP chooses online||Opposition parties have remained firm on their demand for offline general body meetings, but the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has decided to organise online meetings until the state government directs otherwise. Congress leader Aba Bagul said, “Recently, elected members from the Thane Municipal Corporation filed a petition in court demanding a general body meeting in the presence of elected members. The Court gave them permission.” Bagul added, “I have handed over the court’s order to mayor Murlidhar Mohol and demanded that the BJP now follow the court’s decision.” Leader of house Ganesh Bidkar said, “We too are making the same demand and asking the state government to issue guidelines for the same. The opposition is in power in the state. They should contact the state government to bring such orders.” The Maharashtra government’s current instructions are to organise online general body meetings. On Tuesday, BJP held an online meeting. Bagul said, “To avoid the contempt of court, the ruling party must contact the state government and take guidance.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/opposition-demands-offline-meetings-bjp-chooses-online-101613493417054.html
16-02-2021||Pune||Deepak Maratkar murder case: 12 booked under MCOCA||The Pune Police have invoked the stringent Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA) against 12 people for the murder of Deepak Maratkar, a local Shiv Sena leader. A statement to that effect was issued by Pune Police crime branch on Tuesday. The murder happened on the midnight of October 2, 2020, when Maratkar was on a public road in Budhwar peth. He was stabbed to death by a group of people. The 12 people have been identified as Bapu alias Kumar Prabhakar Nayar (40), a resident of Upper Indiranagar; Ashwini Sopan Kamble (25); Mahendra Madanlal Saraf (57); and Niranjan Sagar Mahankale (19); all residents of Budhwar peth; Prashant alias Sunny Prakash Kolte (25) and Sandeep alias Munglya Prakas Kolte (23), both residents of Lohiyanagar; Rohit alias Bala Kamlakar Kamble (22), a resident of Guruwar peth; Rohit Dattatray Kshirsagar (21), a resident of Gunj peth; Lakhan Manohar Dhaware (30), a resident of Mukundnagar; and Swapnil alias Chocolate Satish Modave (30), a resident of Sukhsagarnagar in Kondhwa, according to police. The 12 were arrested in the course of the investigation of the murder, and iron blades, vehicles used including, an Activa, Dio, Pulsar, and other alleged evidence, has been seized from their possession. Bapu Nayar, who is believed to be the head of the gang, is already serving a jail term in another MCOCA case registered against him. The murder was allegedly committed as a result of a rivalry between Ashwini Kamble, Sunny Kolte and Mahendra Saraf. Along with Sections 302, rioting, 120(b), 109, 201 of Indian Penal Code, Section 37(1) with 135 of Maharashtra Police Act, and Section 4(25) of Arms Act; Section 3(1)(i)9ii), 3(2), 3(4) of MCOCA, has been invoked in the case registered at Faraskhana police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/deepak-maratkar-murder-case-12-booked-under-mcoca-101613492456973.html
16-02-2021||Pune||SPPU students face technical issues while applying for backlog exams||The backlog examination of the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) will soon be held for which students have begun applying online. Several students have reported facing technical issues, difficulties in filling up the application form and even during the online payment. Students have repeatedly complained about these issues to their concerned colleges and even the university examination department, however, no solution has been given. Adil Shaikh, Bachelor of Arts student who faced technical issues while submitting the exam form said, “I was trying to fill up my backlog examination form online, but the system is not making the payment. There are several glitches which I and my friends faced while applying for the examination. When we contacted our college, they told us to take up the issue with the SPPU examination department. In this our deadline of applying for backlog exams is passing and then we have to pay a late fee as well due to no fault of ours.” Similarly, Pratiksha Borse, another student from Nashik under SPPU said, “I have already given the internal and other oral exams and have passed. Now I only want to appear for the written backlog exams but while filling up the form it is showing that I will be appearing for the practical exams as well. There are a lot of difficulties which we are facing but no solution is given to it despite repeated attempts from our side.” From October 12, 2020, SPPU started its final year exams for 3,300 subjects for which 2.5 lakh students enrolled. From the first day, both online and offline students faced a lot of issues while appearing for the exam and it even continued in the results. For the offline exams, 113 centres were identified where physical exams were conducted in Pune, Nashik and Ahmednagar districts. These exams were 50 marks with multiple-choice questions (MCQ) for a one-hour duration. Sachin Pandule, student and Yuvak Kranti Dal organisation volunteer said, “We are daily getting many complaints from students about applying for backlog exams, there are multiple technical issues like PNR no. not showing, internal or practical marks not included payment issues and many other. When students go to college administration, they are redirected to the SPPU examination department and then students are frustrated. It has become difficult to even apply for backlog exams; some of the students don’t even have internet connectivity or smartphone to apply.” Mahesh Kakade, SPPU director of the board of examination and evaluation said, “We are addressing each and every grievance by students about the application for backlog exams. Those students who still have any technical issue can contact our examination department and get their issue resolved.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sppu-students-face-technical-issues-while-applying-for-backlog-exams-101613491857094.html
16-02-2021||Pune||Gajanan Marne arrested, booked in two new cases hours after leaving jail||Gangster Gajanan Marne (50) was arrested and booked in two cases on Tuesday one day after he was given a loud welcome by his followers after his release from Taloja jail in Navi Mumbai. In one case registered at Talegaon Dabhade police station of Pimpri-Chinchwad police, he was booked for celebrating his release from Taloja jail with scores of people in cars, firecrackers, louds chants, and shooting a video using a drone the public rally that travelled along the Pune-Mumbai Expressway on Monday. He was arrested by Pune police after a case was registered at Kothrud police station on Tuesday night, according to Pornima Gaikwad, deputy commissioner of police, Zone-3, Pune police. Marne was acquitted in two murder cases in the month of February by a court in Pune. In the first case, Marne was booked along with 13 others for the murder of Santosh alias Pappu Gawade (28) on November 4, 2014, with sharp weapons. Marne was again booked along with 22 others for the murder of a man named Amol Hari Badhe (26) on November 19, 2014, by opening fire at him and two others. Both the men were members of the gang of Nilesh Ghaiwal, who was once a member of the Marne gang but split from him to start his own gang. Their rivalry had led to a gang war in the early 2010s after which Marne was in jail while Ghaiwal is currently on externment from Pune. Marne was soon arrested in both the cases and was facing trial in both cases. However, Special Judge AY Thatte acquitted him in both cases for a lack of evidence. The 50-year-old gangster’s celebration was, however, short-lived as the Pimpri-Chinchwad police, as well as Pune police, arrested him one day after release. A case under Sections 188, 143, 286 of Indian Penal Code along with Section 37(1) with 135 of Maharashtra Police Act and Section 7 of the Criminal Law Amendment Act was registered at Talegaon Dabhade police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/gajanan-marne-arrested-booked-in-two-new-cases-hours-after-leaving-jail-101613491377057.html
16-02-2021||Pune||Pune district reports two Covid deaths, 650 fresh cases||Pune: Pune district has reported two deaths due to Covid-19 in the last 24 hours by the state health department on Tuesday while 650 new cases were reported in the district. The Covid toll reached 3.95 lakh while 3.80 lakh have been declared as recovered, 8,060 declared dead by the infection and 7,015 patients continued to remain active as patients undergoing treatment at hospitals or are in home isolation. The city has reported 311 new Covid cases which took the final count to 201,907 while no new deaths were reported keeping the death toll to 4,556. Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation reported 145 new cases which reached the count to 98,754 while the death toll stood to 1,320 as no new deaths were reported. Pune rural reported 194 new Covid cases which took the final count to 95,046 while the death toll stood at 2,138 as two new deaths were reported.Only 32% target beneficiaries vaccinated Pune’s vaccination coverage continued to go down as only 32% of the beneficiaries got vaccinated on Tuesday. The city saw 335 of the target 2,800 get vaccinated while PCMC saw 32% of the target beneficiaries 1,600 get vaccinated and rural recorded 30% of the target 4,100 inoculated. A total of 1,425 health care workers (HCW) and 1,264 frontline workers (FLW) got vaccinated of the target 8,500 beneficiaries which took the district’s average percentage to 32% for the day. Also, 417 HCWs got their second dose which completed their Covid vaccination course. Also, zero adverse effects following immunisation (AEFI) were reported in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-two-covid-deaths-650-fresh-cases-101613490716980.html
16-02-2021||Pune||No written request from SA govt to return Covishield doses: Poonawalla||Pune: Amidst media reports that the South African government has written to the Serum Institute of India (SII) to take back a million doses of the Covishield vaccine, given to the country a week ago, the company response to HT, stated that they are yet to receive any written response from the South African government regarding the same. Adar Poonawalla, chief executive officer of SII, said, “We have not received anything in writing from the South African government and I do not want to comment on the matter. These are all just media reports as of now.” He said that the current Covishield dose is effective against the new UK variant of the Sars-Cov-2 strain, as well as the South African strain of the Covid-19 causing virus. Poonawalla said, “The vaccine is effective against severe disease so nobody has had to go to hospital after taking the vaccine. Patients have experienced only mild to moderate symptoms even in South Africa.” The new variant of the virus found in South Africa has become a matter of concern as in January researchers found that the variant has mutations which may be resistant to immunity from a previous Covid-19 infection. Following this, there were several media reports claiming that the South African government has requested the Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII), the only mass manufacturer of Oxford University’s Covishield vaccine in India, to take back its one million doses of Covishield which was delivered to the country about a week ago.SII has been at the forefront to deliver the vaccine to multiple countries.Dr Raman Gangakhedkar, epidemiologist and former head scientist of epidemiology and communicable diseases at the Indian Council of Medical Research, said, “We have to do our independent validation study. I am told that the mutated virus is being cultured. Once the culture is done we need to study the effectiveness of the current vaccines. We need to do genomic sequencing on the same variant, of the rare South African Covid-19 strains found in our country, to see if there is any difference in the South African strain reported in India or the classical SA strain as there could be multiple mutations in the same kind.”With respect to how effective these vaccines are against the ongoing mutations, Dr Gangakehkdar said both the vaccines are safe and only their efficacy is under study. He said, “Covaxin has provided data about its effectiveness against the UK strain. As about Covishield, there is data from other place, including the UK, that it does work against the UK variant. We need to try and develop a new mechanism to ensure that we are able to conduct our own study for any new mutation and develop vaccines accordingly and use it as second dose. As of now with respect to the general public, it is important to know that it is essential to get vaccinated as all the approved vaccines are safe and only their efficacy is being tested.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/no-written-request-from-sa-govt-to-return-covishield-doses-poonawalla-101613489816901.html
16-02-2021||Pune||3,800 FASTag violators pay double toll penalty at Khed-Shivapur toll plaza||Pune: With the FASTag electronic payment system at toll plazas mandatory now, on the first day of its implementation on Tuesday, police officials kept a close watch on traffic movement at the Khed-Shivapur toll plaza, and also toll plazas on the Pune-Mumbai Expressway. Khed-Shivapur toll plaza saw long queues of vehicles in the evening due to technical problems. Till 7pm, 34,000 vehicles passed through the Khed-Shivapur toll plaza with 20,000 using the FASTag mode and 3,800 paid a double toll fee. Six thousand vehicles paid cash. According to toll authorities, citing the traffic situation, a single fee was collected but, post 4pm, a double toll penalty was implemented. The rest of the vehicles had an exemption category“In the morning we didn’t face any issues because people were majorly aware that if they are not using FASTag, they have to pay a double penalty. In the evening we faced a few arguments. After entering the lane some are expecting FASTags to be provided then and there. This is not practically possible. They must take a FASTag before entering the lane,” said Amit Bhatia, regional head, west, Pune-Satara Toll Road Private Limited, Reliance Infrastructure. He manages the Khed-Shivapur and Anewadi toll plazas.An eyewitness confirmed the long vehicles queues in the evening. “Around 5.30 pm there were long queues at the Khed-Shivapur toll plazas. They must have been at least a km long,” said Mahendra Shinde, a commuter from the Khed-Shivapur toll plaza.To avoid such a situation a police force was deployed at the Khed-Shivapur toll plaza. “Our team has been present here and will be present at the Khed-Shivapur toll plaza as it is one of the biggest junctures. They have installed FASTag readers in all the lanes. Will keep watch on the situation,” said Pravin Randive, assistant police inspector of highway police.Union minister of road transport, Nitin Gadkari, made it clear on Sunday that no more extensions would be given for FASTag implementation across the country. FASTag do’s and don’ts - Account should be recharged sufficiently for the journey - Do not recharge after entering the lane at toll plaza. It may take a while to get deposited. - Make sure you have the tag from good service provider - Keep an eye on the mobile phone network at the toll plaza. In case of poor network, deduction message may be delayed||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/3800-fastag-violators-pay-double-toll-penalty-at-khed-shivapur-toll-plaza-101613489456820.html
16-02-2021||City||Courier firm founder, OBC chief are BJP's Gujarat Rajya Sabha candidates||By Darshan DesaiThe Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) sprang a surprise on Tuesday as it announced the names of candidates for by-elections to two Rajya Sabha seats in Gujarat. The polls will take place on March 1. Among the candidates is an old-time party worker, Ram Mokariya, who is also the founder-chairman of a courier company. Mokariya has been associated with the party for nearly four decades. Another candidate is other backward classes (OBC) leader Dinesh Anavadiya.The ruling party will have a walkover on both the seats since the Congress has decided not to nominate any candidate since it doesn’t have the adequate numbers to win any seat. The opposition party will have to concede the seat that fell vacant after the death of veteran Congress leader Ahmed Patel.Another seat held by the BJP fell vacant after the death of recently-elected Abhay Bhardwaj. Both, Patel and Bhardwaj, succumbed to Covid-19 complications.Gujarat’s OBC Morcha chief Dinesh Anavadiya is a senior leader from North Gujarat’s Banaskantha district. He served as the director of the Gujarat State Road Transport Corporation between 2014-17.Ram Mokariya, who is a surprise choice, had founded Gujarat’s first Shree Maruti Courier service in 1985 to cater to four cities of the Saurashtra region where he belongs to. The primary reason behind Maruti’s success was its service to the remotest towns of Gujarat where only India Posts reached.Also read: Karnataka imposes restrictions on travel from Kerala amid Covid spike in B'luruOn his selection, Mokariya told reporters, “I have been a dedicated party worker for four decades without any expectations. I am indeed happy that the party has picked me to contest the Rajya Sabha elections.”The BJP's strength, which had won 99 seats in the 2017 elections, stands at 111 legislators in a House of 182, while that of the Congress has fallen from 77 to 65 now after several desertions. The Bharatiya Tribal Party has two MLAs, the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) has one and one Independent, Jignesh Mevani. As of now, two assembly seats are vacant.Gujarat Congress chief spokesperson Manish Doshi told Hindustan Times, “We don’t have the numbers to nominate a candidate. If polling was to be held together for both the seats, we could still have a chance of retaining our one seat since the voting MLAs would be equally divided. In a separate ballot, all 180 (as of now) MLAs will vote for each seat.”Meanwhile, BJP’s candidates are also a surprise since the party was expected to field Balwantsinh Rajput yet again but dropped him. Rajput had created an upset in 2017 when he quit the Congress to join the BJP and was immediately nominated against Ahmed Patel for Rajya Sabha and brought the latter, his mentor, close to a humiliating defeat. Patel had won that seat by one vote, apparently from Bharatiya Tribal Party chief Chhotubhai Vasava from Bharuch.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/courier-firm-founder-obc-chief-are-bjp-s-gujarat-rajya-sabha-candidates-101613488739430.html
16-02-2021||Pune||PCMC sees gradual rise in Covid cases||Pune: Covid cases reported within the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) limits have been rising in the last 12 days after witnessing a decline till February 5.From February 5- February 16, the PCMC health department conducted 16,758 tests of which 1,370 have been tested positive for coronavirus and 16 deaths were recorded.So far, 12,000 residents, including front line workers, doctors, police and people from administration have taken the first dose of Covid vaccination.“The gradual rise in numbers of Covid positive patients is due to change in weather conditions. The death rate is still less as compared to previous periods. Residents should continue following the precautionary measures strictly as it has been observed since last month that some people are taking the reality of Covid-19 lightly,” said Pavan Salve, additional health and medical officer, PCMC.Covid cases in PCMC since last 12 days Date/Testing/Covid positives/DeathFeb 5; 1.699; 85; 3Feb 6; 1.880; 106; 2Feb 7; 688; 108; 1Feb 8; 626; 101; 3Feb 9; 1.317; 102; 1Feb 10; 966; 137; 0Feb 11; 1.176; 102; 1Feb 12; 1.511; 117; 0Feb 13; 1.126; 120; 1Feb 14; 2.671; 150; 0Feb 15; 1.951; 100; 4Feb 16; 1.147; 142; 0 Total; 16,758; 1370; 16||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pcmc-sees-gradual-rise-in-covid-cases-101613488916801.html
16-02-2021||Pune||50% HCWs, 7% FLWs vaccinated in 21 days, Pune lags behind most districts in the state||Pune: In 21 days, since the Covid-19 vaccination drive began across the country, Pune has covered about 50% of its registered health care workers (HCW) and 7% of the frontline workers (FLW). The vaccination drive for frontline workers, including police personnel and civic staff, began on February 8. The vaccination drive began across the country from January 16. In terms of cumulative numbers, the district is at the third spot in the state as 65,000 have been vaccinated of the registered 2.04 lakh beneficiaries, including HCWs and FLWs. The figure takes the average percentage to 32.31% for the district. The Covid vaccination drive in the city primarily included administering Covishield and Covaxin in the district hospital alone. While almost half the HCWs have received their first dose in 21 days, only 7% of FLWs got their second dose in seven days. As per the information provided by the state health department, Pune stands at third spot in terms of cumulative beneficiaries being covered. It stands at a lower rank when it comes to the percentage coverage among beneficiaries. Mumbai tops in the state with over 1.14 lakh beneficiaries vaccinated, Thane comes second with 68,000 and Pune has a little over 65,000 inoculated. However, in terms of percentage, Pune stands at a much lower position with bigger cities like Mumbai and Thane overtaking the numbers and also smaller districts like Ahmednagar, Solapur and Satara overtaking the district’s overall vaccination performance. District collector Rajesh Deshmukh said, “PMC’s cumulative numbers are the highest as 46% beneficiaries have been covered. Pune rural and PCMC which have fewer registered beneficiaries comparatively have covered more than the state average. Pune district’s vaccination average is about 50% which is lower than the state average of 53%. We have asked the local authorities, including both the civic bodies and all the talukas, to increase vaccination through more information, education and communication campaigns.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/50-hcws-7-flws-vaccinated-in-21-days-pune-lags-behind-most-districts-in-the-state-101613487896676.html
16-02-2021||Pune||MSEDCL collects ₹100 crore in two weeks with 4,922 disconnections in Pune circle||Pune: Consumers have started responding to the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL), paying more than ₹113 crore in outstanding dues in the last two weeks. MSEDCL had threatened to discontinue power supply and has done so for 4,922 consumers. In the Pune circle, there are 399,128 consumers who haven’t paid their electricity bills over the last 10 months. A total of 33,187,000 industrial and commercial consumers are defaulters and the pending amount is ₹320.36 crore. Till date, 55,000 residential consumers paid a total of ₹81.70 lakh in outstanding bills in one week’s time. Commercial consumers have paid ₹51.54 crore (22,818 consumers) and industrial consumers (2,750 consumers) also paid ₹24.29 crore. Sachin Talewar, chief engineer, MSEDCL, Pune circle, said, “We have started taking action against defaulters and especially those consumers who haven’t paid their electricity bills from April 2020. However, consumers are paying their outstandings after our appeal.” “We had also given them the option to pay bills in 12- month instalments,” he said. According to MSEDCL officials, 24,746 consumers in Haveli, Mulshi, Velhe, Ambegaon, Junnar, Maval and Khed talukas have paid total ₹1.52 crore. Vivek Velankar, civic activist, said, “Due to political interference in the electricity bill issue, people were anticipating that the bill amount will be waived during the pandemic, but that was not the case. Now the outstanding amount is high and so MSEDCL has started taking action against defaulters. Consumers are paying outstanding amounts to MSEDCL. Now, MSEDCL should cooperate and give defaulters time to pay bills in instalments.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/msedcl-collects-rs-100-crore-in-two-weeks-with-4-922-disconnections-in-pune-circle-101613486396632.html
16-02-2021||Other||Ludhiana: Homeless man stabbed in neck during fight over food||Fight over food between two homeless men left one of them with injuries on the neck near the Old Session Court Chowk on Tuesday morning.The victim, identified as Manu, was rushed to the civil hospital by the police. Sub-inspector Rajinderpal Singh, SHO at Division Number 8 police station, said Manu and Nashma, both aged around 40, lived on the footpath near the Old Session Court Chowk. On Tuesday morning, after some Good Samaritans distributed food among the homeless there, Manu and Nashma started fighting over it. The fight turned ugly, following which Nashma attacked Manu’s neck with a knife.On hearing the victim’s screams, the onlookers called the police. The SHO said Manu was not fit yet, and an FIR will be lodged after recording his statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-homeless-man-stabbed-in-neck-during-fight-over-food-101613484297434.html
16-02-2021||Mumbai||'Mumbai might head towards lockdown if Covid-19 norms not followed': Mayor||In the backdrop of increasing Covid-19 cases in Mumbai and Maharashtra, Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar on Tuesday urged the citizens to follow Covid-19 norms. Pednekar said that the city might head again towards a lockdown if the citizens do not follow Covid-19 rules.Pednekar was speaking to reporters at the inauguration of social media accounts for Byculla zoo on Tuesday. The Mayor said that there were deliberations to allow the reopening of schools in the city but the authorities are going to rethink the matter.After the inauguration, Pednekar said, "An increase in the number of cases is witnessed in the city and, if in this scenario, citizens don't take precautions, we will have to go towards a lockdown. There is no other option left if citizens do not take precautions. Hence, wear masks, sanitise and following social distancing is something that we should continue to follow."Pednekar added, "Citizens just have to take precautions. Even almost a year after Covid-19 outbreak, I see many citizens not taking precautions. It is because of this carelessness we might have a scenario where the state government might think of another lockdown in the city."Also read: Uttarakhand disaster - Challenges, progress during rescue operationThe increase in the number of Covid-19 cases was reported in the city ten days after the local trains, considered to be the lifeline of Mumbai, were restarted for the general public from February 1.However, the BMC on Monday maintained that it does not have any plans for imposing a lockdown yet. The civic body said that a final decision on further relaxations or lockdown will be taken after a review meeting on February 22. Last week, the BMC also wrote to Mumbai University on how it will monitor the situation till February 22 before allowing colleges to reopen in Mumbai.Meanwhile, Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner of BMC told HT earlier, "Daily cases have increased and one of the reasons can be local trains. But there are other factors too involved here. One is unlocking, now almost everything has opened up gradually. With unlocking, social mingling has increased, citizens have also stopped practising Covid-19 appropriate behaviour. These are also some factors behind cases increasing."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-might-head-towards-lockdown-if-covid-19-norms-not-followed-mayor-101613482936139.html
16-02-2021||Noida||Suspect in child's murder held after encounter with police escapes from hospital||A suspect in the kidnapping and murder of a four-year-old boy on Tuesday escaped from a hospital in Noida where he was taken for treatment after suffering injuries in a gunfight with police, officials said.Accused Vijay, in his early 20s, was held late Monday night in Surajpur area of Greater Noida and brought to the district hospital in Noida for treatment of the gunshot injury on his foot, the officials said.“Vijay went to the toilet of the hospital and was escorted by a policeman who stood outside. Once inside, the accused broke open the window and escaped,” Central Noida Deputy Commissioner of Police Harish Chander said. “However, an eye-witness told the police that he saw Vijay entering into a space inside the hospital building through a false ceiling and he is suspected to be still within the building. A search is on to track him,” Chander said. Vijay along with his partner Anil had allegedly kidnapped the boy from outside his home in Surajpur area on January 21.The boy's body was found last week from Greater Noida, according to the police. An FIR was lodged in the case and Anil was held after a gunfight with the police on February 13, while Vijay is absconding, Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (Crime) Elamaran G said. “After the arrest of Anil, a ₹25,000 reward was announced on Vijay. He was held on Monday night after the encounter with the police and was taken to hospital for treatment,” Elamaran said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/suspect-in-child-s-murder-held-after-encounter-with-police-escapes-from-hospital-101613482059095.html
16-02-2021||City||Press in Chennai eligible for Covid-19 vaccine: Corporation chief||Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) commissioner G Prakash on Tuesday announced that press and media personnel are eligible for Covid-19 vaccination as media will be part of the election duty.“The authorities have cleared people who are related to the elections to be administered the Covid vaccine. Press and media being an integral part of the administration are also involved in election-related issues from the start. So, the GCC has initiated the chapter of administering the vaccine to all the members of the media and press,” Prakash said in a statement. He appealed for the vaccine to be taken without any “hesitations or misconceptions.”A day earlier, health secretary, J Radhakrishnan had said that there are preparations to include those involved in election work as frontline workers to receive the vaccine on priority.Tamil Nadu began administering the second dose of the Covid vaccine on Saturday. As of February 15, as many as 269,017 healthcare workers, frontline workers and police personnel have taken the first dose of Covishield and Covaxin vaccines. In total, 845,575 people have tested positive for the virus in Tami till date.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/press-in-chennai-eligible-for-covid-19-vaccine-corporation-chief-101613480944810.html
16-02-2021||Other||Social security dept to link Aadhaar with welfare schemes||ChandigarhThe Punjab social security, women and child development department has decided to link Aadhaar with the scheme for financial assistance to disabled persons to enable eligible beneficiaries to get their dues promptly in a transparent manner. Social security and women and child development minister Aruna Chaudhary said the Aadhaar linkage would be used as identification document for the beneficiaries of finance assistance to disabled persons (visually impaired, handicapped, deaf and dumb and mentally challenged) scheme. “An individual eligible for receiving the benefits under the scheme will be required to furnish proof of Aadhaar number or undergo authentication. Any individual desirous of availing benefits under the scheme and who does not possess the Aadhaar number or, has not yet enrolled for Aadhaar, should get enrolled,” she said in a statement. The minister said the department will provide Aadhaar enrolment facilities for such beneficiaries in case there is no Aadhaar enrolment centre located in the respective block or tehsil. “Till the time, Aadhaar is assigned to the individual, benefits under the scheme should be given to person who furnishes his or her Aadhaar enrolment identification slip, voter identity card, voter list, birth certificate, matriculation certificate or disability certificate,” she said. She said that in all cases where Aadhaar authentication fails due to poor biometrics or due to any other reason, then iris scan or face authentication method should be adopted for authentication.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/social-security-dept-to-link-aadhaar-with-welfare-schemes-101613479256102.html
16-02-2021||Bhopal||Woman thrashed, forced to walk with boy on shoulders in Madhya Pradesh's Guna||A tribal woman was beaten up and forced to walk for three km carrying a teenage boy on her shoulders by her in-laws in Madhya Pradesh's Guna district, police said on Tuesday.Five persons have been arrested in connection with the incident that took place at Sanai village, said Guna superintendent of police (SP) Rajesh Kumar Mishra.The incident took place on February 9 and came to light on Monday when a purported video of it went viral.A case has been registered against a total of eight persons inlcluding a minor, the police official said. Earlier the police had said the woman's husband was among the accused, but the SP later said he was not among them.In the video, the woman, who is around 20 years old, is seen walking barefoot with the boy on her shoulders as some men keep hitting her with sticks and even with cricket bats.The woman, who married a man from Banskhedi village two years ago, had separated from him due to some dispute and and was living with another man in Sanai, the SP said.On February 9, when she was alone, some members of her estranged husband's family and the boy turned up and and allegedly beat her up, he said.They also forced the woman to walk for three km with the boy on her shoulders, the SP said.Based on a complaint lodged by the woman at Sirsi police station, the police arrested five of the eight accused, he said.State Congress chief Kamal Nath claimed the woman was pregnant, and said what happened was against humanity."Shivraj-ji (chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan), is this your good governance?" he asked."A pregnant woman was forced to walk barefoot with a boy on her shoulders. A procession was taken out and she was beaten up mercilessly," the former chief minister said, demanding stern action against the culprits.To a query, additional superintendent of police T S Baghel said according to available information, the victim was not pregnant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/woman-thrashed-forced-to-walk-with-boy-on-shoulders-in-madhya-pradesh-s-guna-101613477996732.html
16-02-2021||Pune||New PCMC chief to visit each ward to draw up devp plan||Rajesh Patil took the charge as the municipal commissioner of the Pimpri-Chinchwad on Monday. Patil, who believes in the motto ‘speak less and work more’, said, “I assure you that in six months you will see some positive developments in the twin cities. The core issues will be resolved on priority.” Patil conducted his first media interaction here after taking charge from Shravan Hardikar who has been transferred as Inspector General of Revenue (IGR) in Pune. After joining office, Patil had a brief discussion with all the administration officers and ordered them to study important issues within their department.“I will be studying about people’s aspirations and what they want and then I will finalise my priority. In the coming two weeks, I will be visiting all the wards of the city and then I will make my plans. My aim is to make this city of international standards,” added Patil.PCMC residents are irked by the administration’s decision of providing alternate day water supply even after a very good monsoon season. “PCMC residents still do not receive daily water and it is one of the issues, which I will be looking into, among other things like cleanliness, health and traffic. As per my knowledge many projects have been undertaken, so I will study them and find out what are the long-term solutions for it. I will also see if any short-term solution can implemented temporarily,” added Patil.The PCMC chief also aims to make his administration office paper-less.“We will try to give more and more services online and will make sure that people do not face any harassment while asking for any help from the administration,” added Patil.On his working style Patil added, “My method of work is strict. I insist that everything should be done accurately. I like to do people-oriented work. Citizens love clean, transparent and people-oriented governance and that’s the way it should be. I will be also focusing on working with all sections of the society,” added Patil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/new-pcmc-chief-to-visit-each-ward-to-draw-up-devp-plan-101613478056982.html
16-02-2021||Pune||Alumnus gifts CCTV cameras to Pune ZP school on Valentine’s Day||Pune: Students of the zilla parishad primary school in village Pabe of Velhe taluka will now have another reason to remember the Valentine’s Day (February 15). Thanks to a caring gesture from their senior. Yuvraj Renuse has gifted two closed-circuit television (CCTV) cameras to his alma mater — the primary school that runs Classes 1 to 7. The 29-year-old, who works as a computer operator for government projects on contract basis, also farms in his village. Renuse’s Valentine gift has crowned the zilla parishad school in Pabe as the first school in Velhe taluka to have CCTV camera facility. “For me education is top priority and this is a small gesture of giving back to the society as my parents overcame many struggles to get me educated. We all should take steps to ensure that zilla parishad schools also get the facilities available at private school in cities,” said Renuse, who added that his son was born on Valentine’s Day two years ago. “Installation of CCTV cameras at the school has become the new attraction for students who have not seen such technology. Though we have computers in classes for students, the CCTV camera facility will help to monitor the wards as they are told that the principal is watching their activities through these cameras. This warning is coming handy since the last two days after CCTVs were installed,” said Suresh Koli, principal, zilla parishad school, Pabe. Pabe village located in a hilly area is 75 kilometres from Pune and faces road connectivity issue during the monsoon. 88% Attendance in ZP schoolsPune: Zilla parishad schools in Pune are steadily reaching its full student strength since it resumed offline classes after the coronavirus lockdown. Classes 9 to 12 restarted on November 23 and classes 5 to 8 on January 27.“Like higher classes, classes 5 to 8 are also getting good response from students as all precautionary measures are in place. We have registered 88 per cent attendance from students. Only the children who migrated to their villages are absent,” said Ayush Prasad, Pune zilla parishad chief executive officer.“The ZP school teachers have also started receiving the first dose of Covid vaccination,” Prasad said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/alumnus-gifts-cctv-cameras-to-pune-zp-school-on-valentine-s-day-101613477156967.html
16-02-2021||Pune||As fuel prices soar, e-vehicle registrations on the rise||E-vehicle registration numbers have increased in 2021, as compared to January and February of last year. In 2021, till February 15, a total 355 e-vehicles have been registered with Pune Regional Transport Office (RTO), so far. In 2020, a total of 301 e-vehicles were registered in Pune in January and February, collectively. In January 2021, a total of 205 e-vehicles have been registered in Pune. In January 2020 a total 147, and in February 2020, a total 154 e-vehicles were registered. “The registration of e-vehicles has been gradually increasing. Most of them are two-wheelers. As the infrastructure of charging facilities and battery replacement will increase, people will start to use e-vehicles more,” said Sanjeev Bhor, deputy regional transport officer. “There is no doubt that the response to e-vehicles has been increasing, but there are still many fields we have to work on. There has to be efforts to increase the commercial use of the e-vehicles. People are becoming more aware and there are more options in the market now,” said Sachin Jadhav, chairman and managing director of Polarity Smart Bikes. As the fuel prices have been soaring in recent times many are viewing e-vehicles as an efficient alternative. “My husband and I use e-bikes to go to work. We have faced no problems and it is very cost efficient. Our expenditure to buy the vehicle has been recovered and there has been no maintenance. Only thing is we should have compatible infrastructure for e-vehicles,” said Poonam Sonwane, a resident of Sangvi area. In 2020, a total 1458 e-vehicles came on the road. While in 2019, 1,001 e-vehicles were registered. E-vehicles in Pune 2021 - 355 e-vehicles registered so far 2020 - 1458 e-vehicles registered 2019 - 1001 e-vehicles registered||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/as-fuel-prices-soar-e-vehicle-registrations-on-the-rise-101613475715857.html
16-02-2021||Other||Three-year-old girl allegedly raped by 13-year-old boy in MP’s Chhatarpur||A 13-year-old boy allegedly raped a three-year-old girl in Madhya Pradesh’s Chhatarpur. He was produced before a Juvenile Justice Board and sent to an observation home, said Arvind Singh Dangi, a local police officer said.Also Read | 16-year-old raped in Rajasthan’s Dholpur“The boy is a neighbour of the girl.” Dangi said the girl’s family consulted a doctor as she was in pain and cried incessantly. The doctor told the family the girl was sexually assaulted.Dangi said the family filed a police complaint on Monday and the girl has been admitted to a hospital in Chhatarpur, where her condition is said to be stable.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/13yearold-boy-rapes-3-year-old-girl-in-mp-s-chhatarpur-101613474996289.html
16-02-2021||Chandigarh||Year after locust attack, experts monitor movement||A year after swarms of locusts invaded parts of Punjab and Haryana besides Rajasthan and Delhi, causing widespread damage to crops, the central government authorities have begun monitoring the pest’s breeding hotbeds in the sub-Saharan desert region and Asian countries. Experts say nearly half a billion population of the desert locust had invaded India from Pakistan from October 2019 onwards. Climatic conditions to determine threat of invasion KL Gurjar, the deputy director of the Locust Warning Organisation (LWO), a subsidiary of the central ministry, is analysing movement of swarms of locusts in coordination with the Food and Agriculture Organisation. He says the climatic conditions in the African and Arabian peninsulas will determine the threat of locust invasion this year. “We are keeping our fingers crossed though the country is fully prepared for another locust invasion. According to the latest field analysis on February 9, swarms persist in East African regions of Kenya and Ethiopia but other areas, including Afghanistan and Pakistan, are calm. The breeding situation of the insect in the Arabian peninsula in the coming months will help in issuing a warning for this summer,” said Gurjar, the national coordinator on mitigating locust attacks. It was after about three decades that India experienced a massive locust attack in 2019-20 when the insect moved from Rajasthan to various states, including Haryana, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and parts of Punjab. Surge in greenery in Rajasthan attracts locusts Experts say locusts move with the wind and follow a definite cycle from the Sahara desert in North Africa, into East Africa – Ethiopia, Kenya, Eritrea and parts of Chad. They then move to the Arabian Peninsula and Iran. When they finish the food there, they move to Pakistan and India. A former vice-chancellor of Himachal Pradesh-based Dr YS Parmar University of Horticulture and Forestry, Hari Chand Sharma, attributes exceptional rains in the last season and upgraded irrigation in the desert state of Rajasthan for the unusual locust invasion. “Swarms of desert locust normally enter India during monsoon that provides it with a suitable breeding environment. With an increase in irrigation infrastructure, several parts of Rajasthan have seen a surge in greenery, attracting locusts for food while providing a breeding ground as well,” said Sharma, an entomologist. “Locusts have a pheromone communication that informs them of wind patterns as it determines rainfall, which means more vegetation. From October 15, 2019, to March 15, 2020, there was about 40% excess rain in locust breeding countries in Africa and Asia, which provided plenty of food for the insect,” he said. With the onset of winter, the locust population leaves the Indian region in October. No locust colony left in country since August 27The LWO authorities say no locust colony was left in the country last year. “After the movement in various parts of the country, locust swarms had returned to Rajasthan to lay eggs in August last year. The insect tends to lay eggs during humid weather. The desert locusts normally live and breed in semi-arid regions and numerous egg colonies were reported in various parts of Rajasthan. But our teams contained the situation and entire egg colonies were wiped out by August 27,” Gurjar added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/year-after-locust-attack-experts-monitor-movement-101613474396367.html
16-02-2021||Pune||Rescuers retrieve bodies of 2 students who drowned in Varasgaon dam near Lavasa||The bodies of two students from a private college in Lavasa who drowned in the backwaters of Varasgaon dam on Sunday were found on Monday afternoon by rescue teams, police said.The two students who drowned while on an outing with their friends were identified as Nihal Uttam Thapa (21) from Shillong, Meghalaya and Shirashit Chandramauli Soran (20), from Chennai police said. Both were second year students pursuing Bachelor in Science at Christ College in Lavasa.“The disaster management team of Mulshi administration helped us in finding the bodies,” said police naik Ravindra Nagtilak of Paud police station.He said the tragedy took place when one of the students began to drown after entering the water. Three others came to his rescue but one of them also drowned with the one they were trying to rescue.“It was their day off yesterday (Sunday) so they came to the dam and one of them, who did not know how to swim well, entered the water and drowned as the water was deep. Three others who were near the water entered the water to save him but as they started drowning too, two of them managed to come out but one of them could not,” Nagtilak said.The parents of Soran have reached Pune while Thapa’s parents are on their way from Shillong. The bodies have been taken to a local government hospital for post mortem.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/rescuers-retrieve-bodies-of-2-students-who-drowned-in-varasgaon-dam-near-lavasa-101613472476420.html
16-02-2021||Other||16-year-old raped in Rajasthan’s Dholpur||A chemist and his three friends allegedly gang-raped a 16-year-old girl in Rajasthan’s Dholpur on Friday last when she had gone to buy a painkiller. The accused threatened to kill her family when they found her being violated as they went looking for her at the chemist’s shop.The girl was rushed for medical examination after her father managed to file a complaint on Monday. Hanuman Sahay, a police officer said, said they were trying to arrest the accused who were absconding.Separately, six neighbours accused of raping a 14-year-old girl in Bharatpur in November remained on the run.Also Read | Patna court hands death sentence to school principal for minor’s rapeHer parents alleged police superintendent Devendra Kumar Bishnoi misbehaved with them when they visited his office on February 11 seeking their arrest.District collector Nathmal Didel said the girl’s family handed over a memorandum to them demanding the arrest.“We will ensure to provide them justice and arrest the five accused. One of them was earlier arrested,” Didel said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/16yearold-raped-in-rajasthan-s-dholpur-101613471996264.html
16-02-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka schools to reopen for 6th, 7th, and 8th grade on February 22: Minister||Offline classes for students in sixth, seventh and eighth grades across Karnataka will commence from February 22, barring Bengaluru and districts bordering Kerala, where offline classes will resume only for students of class eighth due to the continued and greater threat posed by Covid-19, said S Suresh Kumar, minister for primary & secondary education. 2021-22 academic year will commence from July 15 more than a year after offline classes at schools were discontinued after the outbreak of the pandemic, he added.“There was a demand for reopening schools from all parts (of the state) from students, parents, and guardians and school development and monitoring committees,” Kumar said on Tuesday.He said students’ physical attendance will be voluntary and not mandatory at schools. The announcement comes in the backdrop of a rising number of Covid-19 cases in Bengaluru and some other parts of the state. Bengaluru for instance has seen two new covid-19 clusters emerge in recent days, increasing the chances of a possible second wave of the pandemic in India’s IT capital.Also Read: Elon Musk’s Tesla hits mute on Yediyurappa announcing its entry into IndiaA housing complex detected 105 Covid-19 positive cases and a nursing home detected 42 new cases. Kumar said the government would conduct random testing of students and parents. However, those coming from Kerala would require mandatory Covid-19 negative certificates, he said.The decision to reopen physical classes for students from grades one to five will be taken after a meeting with expert committees, Kumar added.Classes for students above 10th grade were reopened in January followed by reopening of schools for the students of ninth grade.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-schools-to-reopen-for-6th-7th-and-8th-grade-on-february-22-minister-101613471607707.html
16-02-2021||Other||Civic Sanskriti: Neighbourhoods change, one small, concrete decision at a time||A couple of Sundays ago, I cycled up from Aundh to Bavdhan to experience the “No vehicle Sunday” organised by the Bavdhan Citizens’ Forum. Children, young people and old, some with cycles, had formed a human chain with placards on reducing pollution and improving road safety (of course, everyone was requested to maintain Covid-19-appropriate distance). Cycling enthusiasts from Aundh and Model Colony and students of Suryadatta College had joined in. Talking about how the initiative started, Dushyant Bhatia from Bavdhan Citizens’ Forum said, “During lockdown, people enjoyed a pollution-free environment with fewer vehicles. We want to continue that experience with ‘No vehicle Sunday’, on the first Sunday of every month.” Tejashree Patil, a member of theforum, says that participant numbers have increased from 30 in November 2020 to almost 170 this month. Activities include cycle rides in Bavdhan, cycle rentals, e-cycle demos, and repairing old cycles languishing dustily in society parking lots. Corporators from Bavdhan are supportive. This month, the Bavdhan Citizens’ Forum presented a request to corporator Dilip Vede Patil to improve footpaths and create cycle tracks, rental cycle hubs and cycle parking. Mr Vede Patil has in turn promised to pursue the cause with the relevant municipal departments, and proposed a local e-rickshaw shuttle service. “No-vehicle days, walking plazas, Happy Streets promote the idea of ‘streets for people’, rather than roads meant only for vehicles,” says Ashik Jain, architect, urban designer, and ‘Bicycle Mayor’ in Pimpri-Chinchwad. This is a fundamental concept for cities: streets are public places; how they are designed, managed and used, influences our well-being. People use streets for many activities: personal mobility, transporting goods, for livelihood and as work spaces, to hang around, meet friends, and as conduits for service lines. Historically, and in current times, streets are venues for democratic communication and protest. Street uses change with the time of day, seasons and festivals. Streets and chowks define, as well as reflect, the history and neighbourhood character – khaugalli, parathe wali galli, Fashion Street are self-explanatory. Some streets are quiet, leafy avenues, others bustle with activity. Some streets are pleasant and friendly, others feel uncared for, boring, devoid of human activity, or worse, unsafe. Well-designed streets can make an area more comfortable, functional, safe and attractive. Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad have programmes for street design and sustainable transportation. Citizen movements can tie in to these, and new synergies can emerge in multiple neighbourhoods to benefit from, and help make wonderful streetscapes for everyone. The Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) is currently seeking public suggestions on its Draft Non-Motorised Policy to promote walking and cycling. PCMC is also preparing a Harit Setu masterplan to improve street infrastructure. With PCMC, Ashik Jain hopes to conduct no-vehicle days in Pimpri-Chinchwad. The Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) policies and plans applicable across the city to improve facilities for walking, cycling and public transport include the Development Plan, Comprehensive Mobility Policy, Pune Cycle Plan, Pedestrian Policy, and Parking Policy. The municipal budgets of both PMC and PCMC and on-ground projects now must reflect the intent of these excellent policies and plans. PMC’s draft budget even has allocations for cycling infrastructure. However, the allocation should be for much more than 10km budgeted this year, so that a city-wide network is ready within two to three years. While the municipal corporations prepare city-wide plans and projects, the bottom-up citizens’ movement for streets for people and sustainable mobility should grow, become stronger, inclusive and deliberative. Residents associations working with NGOs, experts and municipal authorities can make our connections to streets, places and people more holistic – road side greening efforts and neighbourhood nature walks, recycling treasure hunts to know what happens beyond the two bins at home, and walkability audits to check if street spaces can be used by children, women, seniors and people with disabilities. Along with street vendors, auto-rickshaw associations and SWaCH, residents groups can check if adequate spaces are provided for these essential services and the people who run them. Surveys can check if parking is disciplined or if vehicles occupy road space meant for pedestrians, cyclists, street vendors, autorickshaws and buses. Residents’ associations can check for bus routes connectivity and frequency, and possibilities of local area share rickshaw shuttle services. School and college students can even take up such surveys for their environment science projects. The initiative by the people of Bavdhan is commendable. May it inspire a city-wide movement of individual, collective and collaborative efforts from many neighbourhoods, accompanied by open, inclusive civic deliberations!||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/civic-sanskriti-neighbourhoods-change-one-small-concrete-decision-at-a-time-101613470735632.html
16-02-2021||Mumbai||‘In people’s hands’: Mumbai mayor’s warning on lockdown amid Covid-19 surge||As cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) witnessed a fresh surge in Mumbai and Maharashtra, city mayor Kishori Pednekar on Tuesday urged people to take precautions and warned there would have to be another lockdown. Whether another lockdown would be implemented or not, Pednekar said, is in people’s hands.“It’s a matter of concern. Most people travelling in trains don’t wear masks. People must take precautions or else we’d head towards another lockdown. Whether lockdown will be implemented again, is in the hands of people,” Pednekar said, according to news agency ANI.It's a matter of concern. Most people travelling in trains don't wear masks. People must take precautions else we'd head towards another lockdown. Whether lockdown will be implemented again, is in the hands of people: Kishori Pednekar, Mumbai Mayor on surge in COVID cases in city pic.twitter.com/IJgMVUJVJmOn January 29, the Maharashtra government had extended Covid-19 related restrictions across the state till February 28. Local trains, considered as Mumbai’s lifeline, opened for the general public from February 1, for the first time in several months.Also Read | Mumbai local train services resume for everyoneAt a time when Covid-19 cases across the country are coming down, the pandemic’s surge in the western state and its capital has emerged as a major cause of concern. On February 14, Maharashtra recorded more than 4,000 fresh infections for the first time in nearly 40 days while Mumbai reported cases in excess of 600 after a month. On February 15, the state’s tally rose by 3,365 to 2,067,643, while related fatalities were up by 23 to 51,552, according to figures released by the health department.Also Read | Mumbai’s Chembur area to go under lockdown?The corresponding figures for its capital city are 314,569 and 11,422, a rise of 493 infections and three deaths respectively. In Mumbai, the areas that have emerged as hotspots are Borivali, KW ward, Kandivali, Charkop, Malad, Andheri East, Vile Parle east etc.Also Read | Coronavirus cases in Mumbai on the rise: List of hotspotsMaharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, too, has warned that the state government might have to take some ‘harsh’ decisions as, according to him, people have stopped following Covid-19 appropriate behaviour. State health minister Rajesh Tope has, however, ruled out an ‘immediate’ lockdown, saying that local administration has been directed to ensure the compliance of Covid-19 norms.Officials have attributed the spike in cases to several factors, including the resumption of the local train services for all. About 3.5 million people have taken the trains since services were resumed, in Mumbai and its neighbouring suburbs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/in-people-s-hands-mumbai-mayor-s-warning-on-lockdown-amid-covid-19-surge-101613469534113.html
16-02-2021||Delhi||Delhi Police tackled situation during R-Day violence responsibly, says minister||Union minister G Kishan Reddy praised the commitment of Delhi Police officers on the occasion of the force’s 74th Foundation Day. Reddy said officers of Delhi Police showed remarkable restraint on January 26 when a planned tractor rally organised by the farmers’ unions representatives turned violent.The minister also said that the police thwarted the anti-national forces while exercising maximum restraint. “On January 26, we witnessed how anti-India powers used farmers' protest to disrupt the law and order situation in Delhi. Despite their anti-national activities and provocative behaviour, Delhi Police exercised restraint and tackled the situation responsibly,” the Union minister was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Reddy also highlighted the role of Delhi Police in controlling the riots in the national capital in February last year. Reddy said that Delhi remains the focal point for elements who want to destabilise the country. The Union minister said, “There are many anti-India elements that want to spread instability. Delhi remains their focal point. The riots and illegal protests that took place in February 2020 were a part of this scheme but the way Delhi Police handled it, is an example for other police forces.”Earlier in the day, Union home minister Amit Shah had also lauded the Delhi Police for its role during the past year. Shah, who as the home minister also heads the police force, had earlier in January highlighted that despite the difficulties due to the pandemic, the Delhi Police fulfilled their duties.On Tuesday, Shah tweeted, “Warmest greetings to all the workers and their families on the 74th foundation Day of Delhi Police. I salute the courage, restraint and determination of the brave soldiers of the Delhi Police who are fully dedicated to ensure the security and peacekeeping of the capital of the country even under adverse circumstances.”Delhi Police was part of the Punjab Police until 1947. Delhi Police appointed its first Inspector General of Police on February 16, 1948, when the national capital saw a huge influx of refugees post-Partition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-police-tackled-situation-during-r-day-violence-responsibly-says-minister-101613467824837.html
16-02-2021||Mumbai||Resident doctor dies by suicide at Mumbai hospital, say police||A 28-year-old resident doctor at a Mumbai hospital died by suicide on Monday night, police said and added they have registered a case of accidental death. Police said the reason behind the suicide is yet to be ascertained. They said the matter came to light on Monday when a colleague of the doctor found him lying unconscious on his bed.Also Read | 23-year-old’s death in Pune needs probe, says Neelam GorhePeople aware of the matter cited preliminary investigation and said the doctor may have taken an overdose of a muscle relaxant. No suicide note has been found so far, they added.The people said the doctor was from Aurangabad, where his father suffered a paralysis attack this month. They added he returned from home on February 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/resident-doctor-dies-by-suicide-at-mumbai-hospital-say-police-101613461855968.html
16-02-2021||Mumbai||HC refuses to restore X-category security cover to BJP minority morcha chief||The Nagpur bench of the Bombay high court recently rejected petition of BJP’s Minority Morcha national president, seeking restoration of his X-category security cover.Jamal Siddiqui had moved the court claiming that being the national president of BJP Minority Morcha, there was a constant threat to his life and property and that was why he was granted X-category police protection by the state government in 2017. But, after the government in Maharashtra changed, his security cover was withdrawn.Additional public prosecutor TH Khan pointed out that the security cover of the petitioner was not withdrawn, but was reduced.Also Read | Toolkit case: Bail pleas of Nikita Jacob, Shantanu Muluk in Bombay HC todayThe division bench of justice Sunil Share and justice Avinash Gharote said, “The right to lead a secured life would never include in it any right to lead a specially secured life, unless the special need is assessed and acknowledged by the State,” said the bench.  “If the person desirous of any additional and special security is dissatisfied with decision of the State to not provide him any special or ‘X’ category security, such person can always opt for engaging private security guards for his own security at his own expenses,” said the court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/hc-refuses-to-restore-x-category-security-cover-to-bjp-minority-morcha-chief-101613458735615.html
16-02-2021||Delhi||Actor Deep Sidhu, accused in Republic Day violence, remanded to 7-day police custody||Actor-turned-activist Deep Sidhu was remanded to seven-day police custody by a Delhi court on Tuesday. Sidhu, who is accused in connection with the violence on January 26 during farmers’ tractor rally, was produced before the duty magistrate’s at 8.30 this morning.The order comes three days after Sidhu and another accused Iqbal Singh were taken to the Red Fort by a special investigation team (SIT) to recreate the sequence of events that led to vandalism and clashes between the agitators and the police.The team probing the case will inspect the spot to ascertain the route taken by the demonstrators, their activities at the Red Fort and how things unfolded at the monument on Republic Day when the violence broke out, a senior police officer said.Police have alleged that the two were “prominent players” behind the violence and “instigated the mob” by delivering “provocative speeches.” They claim that Sidhu even congratulated the man who hoisted flags at the Red Fort apart from doing a Facebook live from the iconic fort.The police are also probing the link between gangster-turned-activist Lakhbir Singh alias Lakha Sidhana, after the latter recently released a video on social media, in which the latter sought support for Sidhu and others arrested and demanding their release.The police had also announced a cash reward of ₹1 lakh for information that can lead to the arrest of the actor, who was nabbed from in Punjab’s Hoshiarpur last week by the northern range of Delhi Police's Special Cell.Sidhu is among the 143 people so far arrested in connection with as many as 44 cases registered regarding the violence in the national capital on Republic Day. The actor was part of the group of protesters who stormed the Red Fort during the tractor parade by farmers, who have been camping at Delhi’s borders for over two and half months now to protest against three farm laws enacted by the Centre in September last year. At least seven of the arrested persons have already been released on bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/actor-deep-sidhu-accused-in-republic-day-violence-remanded-to-7-day-police-custody-101613453845423.html
16-02-2021||Bangalore||Bengaluru top cop orders action against begging at traffic signals||The Bengaluru city police commissioner has ordered officials from law & order and traffic departments to launch a joint action against beggars at traffic signals, citing it as a primary cause of traffic snarls.“It is noticed that at busy traffic junctions, beggars and others are collecting money from motorists which is not only obstructing smooth flow of traffic, but also causing nuisance to the commuters,” police commissioner Kamal Pant said in a memo.Bengaluru has over 9.4 million vehicles and traffic snarls are often attributed to issues like inadequate infrastructure, poor quality of roads and Metro construction.Also Read | Told about activist Disha Ravi arrest later, say Bengaluru police officersBegging on the streets of urban centres across the country is a common sight as people plead with motorists on busy junctions. Children as young as five, senior citizens, and members of the transgender community are often spotted on almost every busy traffic light in Bengaluru. Pant said that law and order and traffic police should initiate joint action against such people immediately and jurisdictional assistant commissioner of police of both the wings will be nodal officers for this purpose.Police in Mumbai and other places have also issued orders to evict beggars but few have explained how they will be rehabilitated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/bengaluru-top-cop-orders-action-against-begging-at-traffic-signals-101613457655662.html
16-02-2021||Delhi||JNU sedition case: Delhi court takes cognisance, summons accused on March 15||A Delhi court on Monday took cognisance of the charge sheet filed against former Jawaharlal Nehru University students Kanhaiya Kumar, Umar Khalid, Anirban Bhattacharya, and seven others for allegedly raising anti-India slogans on the varsity campus in February 2016.Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Pankaj Sharma has directed the accused to appear before the court on March 15.The court took cognisance, noting that sanction has been granted by the Delhi government to prosecute the accused of sedition.Also Read | Former AMU student leader Sharjeel Usmani now booked for sedition in UP“After careful perusal of the charge sheet and material, all the accused persons are summoned to face trial for the offence. .. Accused persons be summoned through the IO [investigating officer] for March 15,” the judge said.The court also directed that copies of the order be also sent to all the parties through email/WhatsApp.The Delhi Police on January 14 filed a 1,200-page charge sheet before the court naming Kumar, Khalid, Bhattacharya, and seven others and charged them with raising anti-India slogans. The accused have denied the allegations and criticised the police for filing a sedition case against them. Kumar and Khalid have earlier called the police action “politically motivated”.The accused have been charged under sections 124A (sedition), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 471 (using as genuine a forged document or electronic record), 143 (being a member of an unlawful assembly), 147 (rioting) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).The other seven accused charge-sheeted in the case are Aquib Hussain, Mujeeb Hussain, Muneeb Hussain, Umar Gul, Rayeea Rassol, Bashir Bhat and Basharat.The city police had filed the sedition case after “anti-India” and “objectionable” slogans were raised during an event organised at the JNU campus on February 9, 2016 against the hanging of Parliament attack mastermind Afzal Guru. After the case was registered at the Vasant Kunj North police station, it was transferred to the special cell. Kumar, Khalid and others were arrested in the case. They were later given conditional bail. A case was registered on February 11, 2016, under sections 124A and 120B of the IPC against unidentified people at the Vasant Kunj (North) police station following complaints from Bharatiya Janata Party lawmaker Maheish Girri and the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad.Kanhaiya contested the last Lok Sabha elections as a left party candidate from Bihar’s Begusarai seat but lost to BJP’s Giriraj Singh. Khalid is presently in Tihar jail on connection with another sedition case filed in connection with last year’s communal riots that ravaged parts of northeast Delhi, claimed 53 people and left over 400 others injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/jnusedition-case-delhi-court-takes-cognisance-summons-accused-on-march-15-101613457057810.html
16-02-2021||West||Told not to campaign when I pointed out corruption within TMC: Trivedi||Rajya Sabha MP Dinesh Trivedi, who quit the Trinamool Congress on February 12, said that he was often denounced as a "bad person" for finding flaws within the TMC. In an exclusive conversation with Hindustan Times during the video series On The Record, Trivedi said that on several occasions like the Narada scam and when tapes of TMC leaders taking bribe were leaked in media, he had asked the party's top brass to keep tainted leaders away from the party.“During Narada, I opposed (what was going on) tooth and nail and I was being seen as the bad guy. When the Narada tapes came out, I told the leader to keep all of them out. I am not saying that they are guilty but they must be kept out but it was me who was kept out,” Trivedi told Hindustan Times.He also said that a parliamentarian, whom he chose not to name, said that it was not the right moment to call the perpetrators out as elections are near. He also said that Mamata Banerjee gave clear instructions stopping Trivedi from campaigning ahead of the legislative assembly elections in 2016.Trivedi pointed out that if the real change or ‘poriborton’ which was initially promised by the Trinamool Congress did not happen then it looks like that the government in West Bengal has failed the people.“There is no poriborton as far as violence is concerned. There is no poriborton as far as corruption is concerned, rather it has become hundredfold when compared to the Left Front rule,” the parliamentarian further added.Trivedi said, “Mamata Banerjee is known for her simplicity but no one can have a split personality. If your leaders are found in some kind of a corruption then (there should be) no mercy. You (may) not declare them corrupt but the due process of law has to be there.”Dinesh Trivedi also said that under the Mamata Banerjee-led government the middle class has been facing problems as no one pays attention to their grievances as well. Trivedi when asked about the issue of ‘cut money’ he said that he has raised the issue with the Trinamool chief as well as other senior leaders almost ‘everyday’.Trivedi, who is currently serving his third term in Rajya Sabha, also said that there is a need to end the culture of dynastic politics in the country. He chose not to name Trinamool Congress MP Abhishek Banerjee, who also happens to be the nephew of West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, and said that leaders need to be humble as humility is an important aspect of India’s culture.“You must give credit to the Left and also to the BJP that at the top level there is no bhai-bhatija politics. It is vulgar,” Trivedi said. He also said that one should not take choppers to their constituency while campaigning. He also said that the young parliamentarian should exercise caution before using foul language and it is not a good culture. Trivedi also reflected on Abhishek Banerjee’s references to Gujarat during his rallies and said that just because the Prime Minister is from Gujarat one should not abuse people of Gujarat.BJP has also previously targeted the TMC government and said that post-elections BJP will end the ‘didi-bhaipo’ (aunt-nephew) regime. PM Modi and home minister Amit Shah too have alleged that the TMC has become a dynastic party and the chief minister has favored her nephew on several occasions.Dinesh Trivedi resigned from Trinamool Congress on the last day of the Rajya Sabha proceedings on February 12 saying that he felt ‘suffocated’ within the party. Trivedi also said that Mamata Banerjee no longer holds the ‘reins of the party’ anymore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/elections/west-bengal-assembly-election/told-not-to-campaign-in-2016-when-i-pointed-out-corruption-within-tmc-trivedi-101613454344648.html
16-02-2021||Delhi||Sufi Basant 2021: Spring arrives in hues of yellow at Hazrat Nizamuddin||As winter paves way for spring, Delhiites wear their yellow robes, and some will head to the Sufi Basant celebrations at the dargah of Hazrat Nizamuddin Auliya, today. With marigold flowers and yellow attires lining the way, qawwali programmes scheduled specially for this occasion, the conglomeration will maintain social distancing to keep it a safe affair. The annual event of Sufi Basant falls on the third day of Jumada-al-awwal, the fifth month of the Islamic calendar. “This festival is celebrated in memory of the poet Amir Khusrow who dedicated his songs of spring to Khwaja Hazrat Nizamuddin Auliya. Celebrating with the community assumes greater importance in the face of the pandemic. We will start the celebrations around 4.30pm in the dargah. Namaz se pehle basant leke ayenge aur phir program shuru hoga. Masks will be compulsory and we will also be providing sanitiser on the premises of the dargah for all visitors,” says Peerzada Altamash Nizami, a descendant of Khwaja Nizamuddin Auliya and joint secretary of the dargah committee. The qawwalis, today, will be performed by Nizami brothers Ghulam Sabir and Gulam Waris, who have been keeping with this tradition for years. “Humare dada, pardada ke time se humari family Sufi Basant par dargah mein qawwali kar rahi hai. We will be singing Amir Khusro’s qawwalis along with our family members. The qawwali programme usually happens in the courtyard of the dargah, but on this day we perform around the tombs of Amir Khusrow and Hazrat Nizamuddin. Covid ki wajah se sab pareshan hai, but this will be a good occasion for everyone to come together,” says Ghulam Waris, sharing how they celebrate this festival to commemorate the day when Amir Khusrow got his master to smile after he was grief stricken at the death of his nephew. People from different religions gather at the dargah to mark the celebrations, and revel in the spirit of ushering in spring. “I go to Nizamuddin every year on this day and feel at peace to see people come together,” says Archie Saxena, a Noida-based corporate professional, adding, “I don’t think there could be a better way to celebrate communal harmony than attend the Basant Panchami celebrations at a dargah. This speaks about India’s Ganga-Jamuni tehzeeb.” Catch It LiveWhat: Sufi BasantWhere: Hazrat Nizamuddin Dargah, Nizamuddin West, New DelhiWhen: February 16, todayTiming: 4.45pm onwardsNearest Metro Station: Indraprastha Metro Station on Blue Line and Jangpura on Violet Line Author tweets @bhagat_mallikaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/sufi-basant-2021-spring-arrives-in-hues-of-yellow-at-hazrat-nizamuddin-101613455341333.html
16-02-2021||Lucknow||UP woman set aside ₹5/day for 28 yrs for construction of Ayodhya's Ram Mandir||Krishna Dixit, an 80-year-old woman from Kanpur, donated a little over ₹51,000 for the construction of the Ram Mandir in Ayodhya. She collected the amount by putting aside ₹5 daily for the last 28 years, said her family members.“I continued saving five rupees a day till date. I am happy I did my bit,” she said. It was in 1992 that she began saving ₹5 per day for the Ram temple construction.A resident of Yashoda Nagar, Kanpur, Dixit recently handed over her savings to the prantiya pracharak of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) Shri Ram for Ayodhya Ram temple construction.Designated RSS and VHP leaders are going door-to-door to raise funds for the construction of Ram temple and are accepting as little as ₹10 for the cause. Since not more than ₹20,000 can be accepted in cash, Krishna’s contribution, collected over the years, was first deposited into her son Gaurang’s bank account before a cheque could be issued to the RSS leader, said Omendra Awasthi of VHP.“There are so many mothers who are devoted completely to nation-building and playing the role of Jijabai,” said Shri Ram.Also Read: Shri Ram Janmbhoomi Teerth Kshetra receives ₹1,511 crore in contributionsDixit’s family’s total contribution to Ram temple construction was ₹130,900, which included her grandson Namit Dixit’s first month’s salary, kept aside a year ago, especially for this purpose, said Krishna.“My family was associated with the Ram temple movement since the beginning; I always, like millions of Indians wished to see the Ram temple at his birthplace,” Krishna said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-woman-set-aside-rs-5-day-for-28-years-for-ayodhya-ram-mandir-construction-101613454151896.html
16-02-2021||Chandigarh||Ex-HPSC chairman as power regulator: HC seeks Haryana’s response||The Punjab and Haryana high court has sought a response from the Haryana government on a public interest litigation (PIL) challenging the appointment of former Haryana Public Service Commission (HPSC) chairman RK Pachnanda as the chairman of the Haryana Electricity Regulatory Commission (HERC).A high court bench headed by chief justice Ravi Shanker Jha has issued notice of motion to the state government seeking a response by July 27.Haryana’s move to appoint Pachnanda as the power regulator, which according to the legal experts was in clear contravention of Article 319 of the Constitution, was reported by HT on February 4.The next day, Pachnanda was appointed and administered oath by the state power minister in a hurriedly convened ceremony at Haryana Niwas attended by a handful of officials.Article 319 states that chairman of a state public service commission shall be eligible for appointment as the chairman or any other member of the Union Public Service Commission or as the chairman of any other state public service commission, but not for any other employment either under the government of India or under the government of a state.A lawyer, Ravinder Singh Dhull, who had filed the PIL has contended that Pachnanda’s appointment was in complete contravention of Article 319 and should be quashed.The petitioner has argued that the constitutional prohibition on further employment has been added to ensure that the public service commission act with impartiality and without any government interference as the responsibility to select prestigious civil services posts rests with the commission.“The government can act and influence the appointments by alluring the chairman for further postings like it has been done in the present case,” the petition said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/exhpsc-chairman-as-power-regulator-hc-seeks-haryana-s-response-101613452975459.html
16-02-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana’s Covid positivity rate drops below 5%||The sample positivity rate for coronavirus infection in Haryana dropped below 5% last week (Feb 8-14) even as the state registered 81 more infections as compared to the week before. While the slender increase in weekly infections has come after 11 consecutive weeks of decline, the virus curve continued its flattening trajectory.The state registered 615 new infections last week as compared to 534 the week before. However, the trend of infections staying below a four-digit figure has continued for a fourth week. Also, the number of total active infections (852) continued to stay to a three-digit figure for the second successive week.Sampling rate continues to be highAdditional chief secretary (ACS), health, Rajeev Arora said that the slight increase in infections should not be a cause of immediate alarm.“However, we haven’t lowered our guard. We know that there is no room for complacency as the virus has shown to make resurgence world over. Our sampling rate is a great example as we continued to test over a lakh individual every week even as the curve is flattening,” the ACS said.As per health department’s statistics, 1.29 lakh persons were tested across state last week as compared to 1.52 lakh the week before.3 districts achieve desirable positivityJhajjar, on Sunday, became the third district after Nuh and Charkhi Dadri to achieve desirable positivity rate of less than 2% infections.Data shows that only four districts - Faridabad (8.8%), Gurugram (7.4%), Rewari (7.2) and Panchkula (6.2%) - continued to have critical positivity rate of more than 6%.“However, the rate is declining steadily even in these four districts. For the last three days, there was not a single active case in Rewari. One case was reported on Monday,” said an official.Health officials said that the sample positivity rate of Haryana has come down to 4.9%, case fatality rate is 1.1% and the recovery rate is 98.6%.As per the Union health ministry, Haryana has ranked 13th countrywide on the basis of overall caseload and mortality due to Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryanas-covid-positivity-rate-drops-below-5-101613452375389.html
16-02-2021||Bhopal||MP: Tribal woman beaten up, forced to carry boy on shoulders for 3km||A tribal woman was allegedly beaten up and forced to walk for three kilometers while carrying a boy on her shoulders by her husband and in-laws in Madhya Pradesh’s Guna district, said police. The matter came to light on Monday after a video of the incident went viral.Also Read | IAF officer booked for sexual molestation by squadron leader in JammuPolice have registered a case against her husband, father-in-law, brother-in-law, and a relative for voluntarily causing hurt, abusing, and criminal intimidation. “Three people have been arrested in the case,” said Rajesh Kumar Mishra, Guna police superintendent.“The woman had recently separated from her husband by mutual consent. She was living with another man for the past one month. But her husband’s family felt offended and abducted her on February 9. They forced her to carry a teenager on her shoulders and paraded her for 3km. The woman filed a complaint.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/mp-tribal-woman-beaten-up-forced-to-walk-for-3-kms-in-guna-101613451835592.html
16-02-2021||Mumbai||4 of family killed on Pune-Mumbai expressway accident||At least four members of a family were killed and five others injured in the early hours of Tuesday when a truck rammed into two cars and another vehicle near Khopoli town on Pune-Mumbai Expressway in Maharashtra, police said.The deceased included a veterinary doctor working with the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) who, along with his family members, was travelling in one of the cars, a police official said.The incident occurred near Khalapur toll plaza when the truck hit two cars and a goods vehicle from behind, he said, adding that the driver of the truck was speeding when he apparently lost his control over the wheel.The deceased were identified as veterinarian Dr Viabhav Jhanjare, his mother, wife and a daughter, the official said.The injured persons were admitted in a hospital, he said, adding that a case was being registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/4-of-family-killed-on-pune-mumbai-expressway-accident-101613448046536.html
16-02-2021||Business||Elon Musk’s Tesla hits mute on Yediyurappa announcing its entry into India||Confusion over the plans of California-based Tesla and its billionaire founder, Elon Musk, in Karnataka continues days after the chief minister BS Yediyurappa issued a statement confirming the former’s imminent entry into India.Ever since Tesla registered a subsidiary in Bengaluru earlier in January, speculation has been rife over the plans of the iconic electric vehicle maker to enter the Indian automobile sector. The company has remained tight-lipped about its plans.People aware of the development say the chief minister signed off on a statement confirming Tesla’s entry sent by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). “It was a statement that was sent to the chief minister’s office by the party,” said people aware of the matter, requesting anonymity.The intent of the statement, the people said, was to show global investor interest in India.Yediyurappa issued the statement on Saturday confirming that Tesla will indeed set up a manufacturing plant in Karnataka. But talks between the company and the state are where they were last September.“Our officials are in constant touch with Tesla and there is still no agreement on their plans even though we have offered all available options and assistance,” Jagadish Shettar, Karnataka’s minister for large and medium industries said.The chief minister’s statement made headlines globally, heralding Tesla’s venture into the sub-continent as an opportunity to tap the potential of India’s untapped EV sector. Electric vehicles account for less than 1% of the total automobile market estimated at $118 billion and estimated to reach $300 billion by 2026.Tesla did not respond to an email seeking comment.The state industries department is engaging with the company that is reported to be in talks with at least three other states in the country.Musk, founder and chief executive officer of the Cupertino-based Tesla, said on Twitter last year that the company plans to enter India “for sure” in 2021. Tesla India has named Vaibhav Taneja, Venkatrangam Sreeram and David Jon Feinstein as the three directors of its Indian subsidiary. Taneja is Tesla’s chief accounting officer; Feinstein is global senior director of trade market access at the company; and Sreeram is an entrepreneur and former Tesla employee who was part of the company’s launch team in China.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/business/confusion-over-tesla-s-plans-to-set-up-india-plant-prevails-101613451052987.html
16-02-2021||Mumbai||Accident on Mumbai-Pune expressway leaves 5 dead, 5 injured||Five people died and at least five others were injured in a five vehicle pile-up on Mumbai-Pune expressway in Raigad in the early hours of Tuesday. The accident took place near Khopoli around 12.45 am, the police said.Among the deceased were veterinary medical officer of Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC), Dr Vaibhav Jhunjhare, 41, his mother Usha Jhunjhare, 63, wife Vaishali Jhunjhare, 38 and their minor daughter. The copule’s 11-year-old son also suffered injuries. Apart from the Jhunjhare family, 48-year-old Manju Nahar also died in the accident but it is still not clear which vehicle she was travelling in.Also Read | The State must ensure safe mobility options: HT EditorialThe police said Dr Jhunjhare had gone to his native place in Solapur with his family a few days ago. They were returning to Navi Mumbai in their private vehicle when they met with the accident.“The exact cause of the accident is not clear yet. There was a trailer, a truck, and three cars in the pile-up. Four people died on the spot, while one died later in the hospital. Those who suffered injuries were rushed to a hospital near Panvel,” said a police officer. A case will be registered against the truck driver at Khopoli police station of Raigad district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/accident-on-mumbai-pune-expressway-leaves-5-dead-5-injured-101613450335288.html
16-02-2021||Lucknow||RLD hits out at Yogi Adityanath government for not increasing sugarcane SAP||Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) national vice-president Jayant Chaudhary has criticised the Uttar Pradesh government’s decision to not increase the State-Advised Price (SAP) of sugarcane for the third consecutive year.The state Cabinet on Sunday cleared the proposal to maintain the status quo on the SAP for 2020-21 crushing season. In a statement issued here on Monday, Jayant said the government chose to ignore farmers’ hard work and rising input cost by not increasing the SAP for the third year in a row.“The prices of diesel, electricity, urea etc are rising constantly and farmers were looking forward to an increase in the SAP but the government has disappointed them yet again,” he said.He alleged that the government wanted to decrease the SAP this year but could not dare do this because of ongoing farmers’ agitation. He also claimed that cane farmers’ ₹10,174 crore dues were still pending against the sugar mills.Also Read: Farmers’ protest: Several Delhi borders points remain closed, traffic divertedHindustan Times highlighted on Monday that high-frequency economic indicators suggest that the rural demand growth might be heading into rough weather once again. The biggest reason for this seems to be a worsening of the terms of trade against farmers. The farmers' terms of trade refers to a suite of indicators that measure average changes to prices and farm costs of the agricultural sector. Price indexes measure the average growth in prices that farmers receive at the farm gate for their product, and in the prices paid for inputs to production.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/rld-hits-out-at-yogi-adityanath-government-for-not-increasing-sugarcane-sap-101613448813956.html
16-02-2021||Bhopal||18-month-old dies after being bitten by stray dogs in MP's Kathonda||An 18-month-old girl who was bitten by stray dogs on Saturday while she was playing outside her house here in Madhya Pradesh, succumbed to her injuries at a local hospital on Monday, police said.The toddler died while she was undergoing treatment for multiple bites of some stray dogs at the government medical college and hospital, Madhotal police station Incharge Reena Pandey said.The deceased girl, identified as Deepali, was playing outside her house in Kathonda locality when some strays bit her, inflicting severe injuries to her stomach, she said."On hearing Deepali's cries, her mother rescued her from the canines," Pandey said.The toddler's body has been handed over to her family members after postmortem.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/18monthold-dies-after-being-bitten-by-stray-dogs-in-mp-s-kathonda-101613447652455.html
16-02-2021||Lucknow||PM Narendra Modi to adopt two more villages in Varanasi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will adopt two more villages- Poore Bariyarpur and Parampur under Sansad Adarsh Gram Yojna in his parliamentary constituency Varanasi for their development, said a BJP functionary.In his first tenure between 2014 and 2019, the PM had adopted four villages, including Jayapur, Nagepur, Kakrahia and Domari. After it was adopted, Jayapur got several facilities, including branches of two banks, a library, streetlights and apucca road.BJP Varanasi district unit president Hansraj Vishwakarma visited the two villages on Sunday and prepared a list of development works and facilities needed there on priority.He said a bank branch, a school quipped with all facilities, community toilets and other facilities will come up in the two villages. Vishwakarma further said that a formal announcement about the adoption of the villages will be made by PM Modi during his proposed visit to Varanasi in April.Last year in September, UP tourism officials had proposed a guided tour for foreign tourists of Varanasi villages that also included Jayapur as an option.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/pm-narendra-modi-to-adopt-two-more-villages-in-varanasi-101613446536903.html
16-02-2021||Delhi||Calm winds lead to poorer air quality, Delhi AQI at 305||Delhi’s air quality continued to remain in the very poor zone on Tuesday, with the hourly average air quality index at 7am being 305. Central Pollution Control Board recordings show that the overall AQI of Delhi on Monday was 313, in the very poor zone. India Meteorological Department (IMD) scientists have forecast that the winds will remain calm in the early morning hours through the week, which will lead to deterioration of the air quality. Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said that while the air quality is forecast to deteriorate in the early morning hours, pollution will clear out on Tuesday as the day progresses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/calm-winds-lead-to-poorer-air-quality-delhi-aqi-at-305-101613444874720.html
16-02-2021||Delhi||Farmers’ protest: Several Delhi borders points remain closed, traffic diverted||Several borders of the national Capital with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh (UP) continued to remain closed for traffic movement on Tuesday due to the ongoing farmers’ protest against the three new farm laws, For those coming to Delhi from Uttar Pradesh, Ghazipur border has been closed. The traffic police have advised them to take routes passing through Anand Vihar, DND, Loni DND and Apsara borders. The commuters can also take Chilla border. The entry and exit points between Delhi and Haryana, passing through Singhu, Tikri, Auchandi, Piau Manyari and Saboli and Mangesh, have continued to remain closed. Also Read | Toolkit was only to educate people on farm stir: Nikita JacobThe traffic police have advised them to take alternate route via Lampur Safiabad, Palla & Singhu school toll tax borders.Traffic has been diverted from Mukarba & GTK road. Commuters can choose other border routes, such as the Delhi-Gurgaon and Delhi-Faridabad stretches opening between the two states. Farmers have been protesting at Delhi’s borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh at Ghazipur, Tikri and Singhu against the three farm laws for 84 days now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/farmers-protest-several-delhi-borders-remain-closed-traffic-diverted-101613443255208.html
16-02-2021||Indore||Man pushes girl off 2 floors after attempting to rape her||A 22-year-old man has been booked for attempt to rape on the complaint of a 16-year-old girl, who regained consciousness on Monday nearly ten days after she was allegedly pushed off the second floor of a building here in Madhya Pradesh by the accused, police said.The girl, who fell unconscious after she landed on the ground, narrated her ordeal after she regained consciousness at a hospital, following which a case was registered against a man who lives on the second floor of the building in Gwalior.No arrest is made so far, an officer said.The teenage girl is the neighbour of the man who lives on the second floor of the building in Gwalior, said crime branch deputy Superintendent of Police Vijay Singh Badhoria.As per the complaint, the accused dragged the girl to a room and tried to force himself upon her, he said."When the girl resisted, the accused thrashed her and threw her off his balcony. The girl passed out after she landed on the ground. She was spotted lying unconscious by some people, who informed her family members. The girl was then rushed to a hospital," Badhorial added.The girl narrated her ordeal to her family members on Monday, who in turn, approached the police, the DSP said.The accused has been booked under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act and under provisions of the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989, Badhoria said.The accused is on the run, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/indore-news/man-pushes-girl-off-2-floors-after-attempting-to-rape-her-gets-caught-after-she-101613434724400.html
16-02-2021||Bhopal||'Excessive' liquor consumption caused death of 4: MP home minister Mishra||Madhya Pradesh Home Minister Narottam Mishra on Monday said "excessive" consumption of alcohol led to the death of four people in Chhatarpur district.Talking to reporters here, Mishra said the deaths were was not caused by spurious alcohol and liquor mafia of the state was not involved in the incident.Mishra said police investigation into the incident has found that the liquor consumed by the deceased had come from Uttar Pradesh, which borders Chhatarpur district.The minister said the cause of all four deaths was "excessive consumption" of alcohol.Four people died after consuming country liquor in Chhatarpur district last week, police said on Monday.Around 150 people had a party on February 9 at the place of one Shital Ahirwar (60) in Paretha village, about 55 km from the district headquarters, Chhatarpur Superintendent of Police Sachin Sharma told PTI.They bought liquor from a shop located in neighbouring Uttar Pradesh and consumed it, he said.Later four people, all Dalits, died while another person fell ill, Sharma said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/excessive-liquor-consumption-caused-death-of-4-mp-home-minister-mishra-101613433020220.html
16-02-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Paradise in the midst of roses||A sea surface dotted with clouds—this is what the blue sky looks like these days, in this brief window of pleasant non-smoggy weather, when the winter has ended and the summer is yet to start.But this view can be experienced only in certain spaces of Delhi, open spaces, unencumbered by trees or monuments, flyovers or towers—such as the BRICS Rose Garden, here in central Delhi’s diplomatic enclave of Chanakyapuri.This evening the sky is looking like a placid ocean in which white clouds are floating as languidly as Venetian gondolas. The clear light is stained in places by the golden glow of the setting sun, whose slanting rays are streaming through the cool air and drilling straight into the park’s dewy grass. At such a magical hour, the garden is surprisingly empty, except for a woman sitting alone on a bench, and another woman playing absentmindedly with her red dupatta in another side of the garden. At this very moment one knows for certain that the nearby Nehru Park, so much more famous, must be milling with people.Silence is an important character of this park. Its presence is intensely felt each time a passing car on the adjacent avenue blows its horn. The sound of the water falling from the many fountains (lit up with pink lamps) further solidifies the quietude.The park has a circular lawn in the centre. The grass is uneven, making this otherwise tamed space look a tad wild. Roses naturally abound in the rose garden. The poles along the walking track are decked with white roses. Big fat red roses speckle the flower beds. One of the most beautiful sights, however, is of a bench surrounded with flowers that are not roses. It is now taken over by two masked boys. They are chatting, oblivious to the sunset halo setting around the Russian embassy on the other side of the park.Before leaving, do bow at the grand Pilkhan standing by the gate. It has a thick tall trunk pricked from top to bottom with dozens of straight branches. The tree looks like a god with many arms.The garden was set up some years ago to mark the summit between Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa—the BRICS nations. It lies across the road from the India-Africa Friendship Rose Garden.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-paradise-in-the-midst-of-roses-101613420530103.html
16-02-2021||Delhi||Government to run Gymkhana club for now||The National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) on Monday dissolved the governing council of the Delhi Gymkhana and appointed an administrator to oversee and check “mismanagement” even as the case that will decide the future of one of the Capital’s hoary old clubs continues at the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) .M.M. Juneja, director general of the Ministry of Corporate Affairs, took charge of the club on Monday, “As of now we have implemented the order and will look into the issues,” Juneja said. “The case will go on further on merit in the NCLT.”The order criticised the club for “perpetuating apartheid .... under the garb of distinctive character”.President of the disbanded Delhi Gymkhana governing council, Air Marshal (retd.) PS Ahluwalia, said the club will file an appeal in the Supreme Court against the order. “It is incumbent on behalf of the members to challenge the judgment in the Supreme Court and argue the merits of our case.”People familiar with the matter at Delhi Gymkhana said the government’s move to appoint an administrator with immediate effect may keep the club from seeking stay on the order from the Supreme Court. “Whether or not there is an appeal, the club’s management now lies with the government,” one of these people said on condition of anonymity. “The president informed the forum of members on WhatsApp that the council has been disbanded and the detailed judgment will soon follow.”The club has been embroiled in a legal battle for nearly four years, with the ministry of corporate affairs citing nepotism, financial irregularities, misuse of allocated land and issues related to membership as the primary reasons behind its move to take over the Delhi Gymkhana club.“Prima facie evidence of mismanagement has been found,” said a senior ministry of corporate affairs official who asked not to be named. “The court has found that it is prejudicial to public interest and has asked for a government administrator to be appointed.”“We are of the considered opinion that the impugned order, in so far as finding in regard to existence of a prima facie case demonstrating that the affairs of the club are being conducted in a manner prejudicial to public interest, does not suffer from any legal infirmity,” the order of NCLAT said . HT has reviewed a copy of the order.HT reported on June 27 that Gymkhana club argued that the functioning of the club was not “prejudicial to public interest” as it is “purely a private club”. All private clubs are governed by their own rules. “It is not a public place such as the Lodhi garden or public marketplaces where the government can even levy parking fees,” a Gymkhana official said then.The appellate tribunal’s order also stayed the club from accepting new membership applications till the waitlist is cleared or increasing fees until NCLT delivers the final judgement.In an interim order, NCLT on June 26 asked the government to appoint two nominees to the governing body of Delhi Gymkhana Club and set up a five-member committee to look into the alleged “irregularities”.In a scathing interim judgment, the tribunal said that the club still had an “imperial mindset”, continued to embrace a colonial past and pandered to the privileged and elite . “It is on record that soon after independence, the caption “Imperial” is wiped off from the name of the club, but I doubt whether it has been wiped off from its mindset,” stated the judgment. “It is not a barb against the club…. there is no space to commoners unless they are positioned on the highest pedestal …”The interim order was challenged by both MCA and Delhi Gymkhana in NCLAT. MCA thought the order was inadequate and the club wanted it overturned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/government-to-run-gymkhana-club-for-now-101613419830663.html
16-02-2021||Chandigarh||Why Katyal not arraigned as accused: Court to CBI in Gurugram land case||Putting CBI yet again in dock, a special court has asked the investigating officer (IO) of the Gurugram land release case to file an affidavit explaining “how, why and under what circumstances” Amit Katyal, director of a real estate company, M/s Krrish Buildtech, has not been included as an accused in the chargesheet.In the February 11 orders, special judge CBI, Jagdeep Singh, had said that in the chargesheet filed by the CBI, there is a specific mention to the effect that “in furtherance of criminal conspiracy entered with Amit Katyal, director of Krrish Buildtech, despite having major discrepancies, accused and former chief town planner JS Redhu dishonestly and fraudulently, proposed to seek approval of the government to grant license to the accused company, by releasing notified land of 130 acre from acquisition proceedings, thereby caused cheating to the related land owners, HUDA, and the state of Haryana.”“But in the array of accused, Katyal has not been arraigned as an accused,” the court stated.The court has directed the IO of the case, deputy superintendent Kailash Sahu, to file an affidavit explaining the position in this regard.Incriminating document recovered during searchThe CBI had on July 9, 2019, conducted searches at the office of Krrish Buildtech in New Delhi, an accused in the case and recovered incriminating documents. A CBI spokesperson said that the agency got hold of 10 incriminating documents from the Jasola office of the real estate company during the search.CBI officials had said that Krrish Buildtech was one of the biggest beneficiaries in the entire episode as about 130 acre, the highest among all realtors, situated across four villages of Nangli Umrapur, Kadarpur, Ulhawas and Maidawas was released from the acquisition for them by the then Congress government.Official-developer nexus angle probedThe agency, in its preliminary enquiry, had tried to establish a nexus between the government functionaries and real estate companies, including Krrish Buildtech. The first information report (FIR) stated that Krrish Buildtech (now M/s Brahma City Pvt Ltd) had dishonestly and fraudulently applied for a license in 2010 on the basis of inadequate documents — defective ante-dated collaboration agreements, general power of attorney and managed to get it for about 151 acre.In 2019, CBI had registered a criminal case against former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda, an official and 15 real estate developers in a case pertaining to release of over 1,300 acre of Gurugram land from acquisition process and grant of colonisation license to realtors during the Congress rule between 2009- 12. The probe was conducted on directions of the Supreme Court.The then Congress government had in June 2009 issued a notification under Section 4 to acquire 1,407 acre for developing residential Sector 58-63 and commercial Sector 65-67 in Gurugram by the HUDA. But while issuing declaration under Section 6 on June 2, 2010, the total area was reduced to about 800 acre. Finally, the award, dated May 29, 2012. was passed for just 87 acre.The FIR said that initiation of land acquisition process compelled landowners to sell their land to real estate developers at a lower price and colonisers fraudulently obtained letter of intents on the notified land, causing loss to the landowners and corresponding wrongful gain to themselves.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gurugram-land-release-case-why-amit-katyal-not-arraigned-as-accused-court-asks-cbi-101613419912003.html
16-02-2021||Chandigarh||Covaxin shots to be administered in Punjab||A month after the covid-19 vaccination drive was launched across the country on January 16, Punjab will start using the second vaccine, Covaxin, by the end of the week The use of Covishield will continue.The state had received 1.3 lakh doses of the made-in-India vaccine last month, but a decision on its use was pending, after concerns over its efficacy (effectiveness). Bharat Biotech, a Hyderabad-based company, has produced this vaccine. Last week, the Centre had clarified doubts of many states over its use. Union health minister Harsh Vardhan writing a letter to Chattisgarh health minister over his queries on Covaxin. Vardhan had claimed that the vaccine was safe, ‘immunogenic’ and ‘full of efficacy’. Experts, however, claim that the issue with Covaxin is that its clinical efficacy is still being studied in phase-3 clinical trial. “All modalities regarding the use of the vaccine are almost ready after due consultation with experts. We are planning to start administering this vaccine by the end of this week,” said Punjab’s nodal officer for covid-19, Dr Rajesh Bhaskar.Another health department functionary said states have mostly been using Covishield, developed by Serum Institute of India, Pune. Of 2 crore vaccine doses supplied to states till last week, Covaxin’s share is less than 11%. States that have received the supply of Covaxin have been hesitant in using it.“Like many other states, we also had some issues regarding the use of the vaccine. However, after consulting state government experts and clarifying our concerns with experts from the Union health ministry and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), we have decided to use the vaccine,” a Punjab health department functionary said. The protocol and procedure regarding the use of Covaxin will be identical to that of the Covishield and the second dose is also to be given after 28 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covaxin-shots-to-be-administered-in-punjab-101613419852076.html
16-02-2021||Chandigarh||Jagbir is new chancellor of Central University at Bathinda||Jagbir Singh, former professor and head of department of Punjabi, University of Delhi, has been appointed as chancellor of Central University of Punjab (CUP), Bathinda. The 83-year-old is an authority on the medieval Punjabi literature, folklore and literary criticism. Singh said he would assume office on February 22. Registrar KP Mundra said communication on the new chancellor’s appointment was received by the CUP administration on Monday evening. Singh’s incumbent Prof SS Johl, an eminent agricultural economist, was the first chancellor of the CUP. His term ended in September 2019. Singh is also a ‘life fellow’ of Punjabi University, Patiala and a member of Indian Institute of Advanced Studies, Shimla.Blurb (if needed)The 83-year-old is an authority on medieval Punjabi literature, folklore and literary criticism and would assume office on February 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jagbir-is-new-chancellor-of-central-university-at-bathinda-101613419671390.html
16-02-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab to have 9 more fast-track courts under Pocso Act||The Punjab government on Monday decided to set up nine more fast-track courts under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act and constitute sexual assault response teams in all 27 police districts of the state to deal with cases of sexual attacks on women. The decisions are in line with recent directives of CM Capt Amarinder Singh for ensuring time-bound investigations in cases of crime against women and children and improving the prosecution rate in such cases. Chief secretary Vini Mahajan in a meeting directed officials to clear the pendency of cases related to women and children between 2016 and 2020 on priority. She also asked officials to lay down SOPs to expedite probe in sexual offences against women and children by specifying the roles and responsibilities of all departments. Mahajan ordered the constitution of a state-level committee, headed by additional chief secretary (home), to review the monthly progress. She directed the health, police and prosecution departments to appoint a nodal officer for better interdepartmental synergy. The chief secretary announced that government will recruit additional scientific officers and forensic experts. DGP Dinkar Gupta said dedicated help desks have already been set up at all police stations. The Punjab Police will upgrade forensic gadgets, mobiles and IT equipment to deal with online cyber offences against women and children, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-to-have-9-more-fast-track-courts-under-pocso-act-101613419493154.html
16-02-2021||Other||Man shoots son dead in Tarn Taran||A 27-year-old man was shot dead allegedly by his father over an argument in Kirian village of Goindwal subdivision, police said on Monday.The incident took place at 11pm on Sunday. The deceased has been identified as Rajdeep Singh while the accused is Subeg Singh. According to victim’s wife Rajbir Kaur, five bullets were pumped into his body, killing him on the spot.A case under section 302 (murder) of the IPC has been registered against Subeg Singh, who is absconding.Chohla Sahib SHO Yadwinder Singh said, “Near Rajdeep’s residence, a new house is being constructed by his elder brother Sukhraj Singh. Subeg had been guarding the under-construction house for the last few days. On Sunday night, Rajbir went to the site where some arguments ensued between him and his father. The arguments turned fatal when Subeg opened fire from his .32 bore licensed revolver.”He said the victim was a habitual drinker and his father had been asking him to shun the habit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/man-shoots-son-dead-in-tarn-taran-101613419492038.html
16-02-2021||Other||Election commission announces re-polling at three Patiala booths||The state election commission on Monday announced re-polling at three booths in Patiala’s Patran and Samana municipal councils. The re-election is scheduled to be held on Tuesday. An official spokesperson of the election commission said that it had received reports from returning officer of Patran that some miscreants ‘damaged’ the EVM in the polling booth number 11 at ward number 8. Similar reports came from Samana where unknown persons damaged the voting machine at booth numbers 22 and 23 in ward number 11.“Taking serious note of these incidents, the commission has announced to nullify the earlier polling conducted in these booths and ordered to re-poll under Section 59 (2)(A) of the Punjab State Election Commission Act, 1994 and has further ordered re-polling,” he said. FIRs have been registered against the culprits under sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapons), 149 (unlawful assembly) and 171-F (undue influence or personation at an election) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and provisions of the Representation of the People Act. Over 150 booked for booth capturing, damaging EVMsMore than 150 unidentified people have been booked in three different cases for damaging EVMs and capturing booths during municipal elections in Samana and Patran. The accused had barged into booth numbers 22 and 23 in Samana and 11 in Patran and created ruckus by threatening officials on duty and damaging election material. The miscreants also attacked a police team at Patran with sharp-edged weapons and sticks.Captain maligned the democratic system: AAPAlleging booth capturing by the Congress in local body polls, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Monday said that chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh let the state down and maligned the democratic system by failing to maintain law and order. Demanding Amarinder’s resignation, AAP MLA Aman Arora alleged that all the incidents on the polling day proved that the state election commission and the police worked as “the wings of the Congress”. “Civil and police officials, dancing to the tunes of Congress, will have to pay for their deeds,” he said at a press conference here, listing Samana, Rajpura, Patti, Bathinda, Abohar, Fazilka, Kapurthala and Ferozepur as places from where incidents of violence and bogus voting were reported. He alleged that the Amarinder government had used violence and state machinery to stop the people from voting and exercising their political rights. “Why is the chief minister doing this? There is a clear and simple reason. Over the last few days, the AAP got a tremendous response from the people. It showed that the people wanted change. This made Amarinder tremble,” he claimed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/election-commission-announces-re-polling-at-three-patiala-booths-101613419373412.html
16-02-2021||Chandigarh||Finance commission recommends ₹350 crore crop diversification grant for Punjab||The Finance Commission has recommended a grant of ₹350 crore to Punjab for crop diversification in the state with a view to reducing pollution caused by stubble burning and saving groundwater. The grant has been recommended from the 2021-22 to 2025-26 financial year. The commission’s report was tabled in the Lok Sabha by Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman two weeks ago and has been accepted “in principle” by the central government. “The Punjab government has sought support for bringing down pollution levels through a shift from paddy to other crops, especially maize. This will also help reduce the air pollution in the northern region,” the commission said while making recommendation for state-specific grant. The spike in pollution levels in Delhi and adjoining areas in the winter months each year is blamed on fumes from the burning of paddy residue by cultivators in Punjab and Haryana. The request for central funds for crop diversification was made by a state team led by chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh during a meeting with the 15th Finance Commission team headed by former bureaucrat NK Singh in Chandigarh in January 2019. The commission, which recommended funds for crop diversification as part of the ₹1,545 crore state-specific grants, has stressed on the need for the state to diversify from paddy and wheat into low water-intensive and high-value crops, including horticulture. Exploitation of the groundwater in Punjab is the highest in the country at 76% as compared to the all-India figure of 16%. “With only 1.5% of India’s geographical area, the state produced 17.4% of the country’s wheat and 11.3% of the rice in 2015-16. The state (where farmers get free power) had the second highest discharge of groundwater through irrigation (34.1 billion cubic metres) in 2017 and the estimated groundwater availability for future irrigation is negative,” the report said, pointing out the state’s declining trend in crop diversification between 1994-95 and 2014-15. The farmers’ over-dependence on water-guzzling paddy crop is seen as one of the main reasons behind the dropping water table. The expert panel headed by former Planning Commission deputy chairman Montek Singh Ahluwalia, in an interim report titled ‘Medium and Long-Term Post-Covid Economic Strategy for Punjab’ had suggested last year to the state government to reduce the area under common paddy by about 1 million hectares (out of total 3.1 million hectares) over the next 6-7 years to reduce the use of electricity and avoid environmental damage from excess use of water. Agriculture experts have been recommending maize – used as chicken feed – as the best bet for crop diversification for a switch from paddy given its low-water consumption, but its prices saw a sharp drop last year due to a fall in demand from poultry business during the coronavirus pandemic, leaving the farmers disappointed. Other state-specific grants recommended||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/finance-commission-recommends-350-crore-crop-diversification-grant-for-punjab-101613419372136.html
16-02-2021||Chandigarh||HC restrains Punjab from issuing appointment letters for 2,364 ETT posts||The high court on Monday directed the Punjab government not to issue appointment letters for 2,364 posts of ETT teachers. The bench of justice TS Dhindsa while seeking response by May 20 said the government may continue with the counselling process but it can’t issue appointment letters without court’s permission. The government counsel was also asked to seek instructions as regards the weightage contemplated for higher qualifications in the advertisement for preparation of the final merit, which, court observed, prima facie runs contrary to the statutory rule. Initially, 1,600 posts were advertised in March 2020 and later increased to 2,364. The court has acted on the plea of one Daljit Kaur and 17 others. The court was told that mode of selection was to be a written test objective type of 100 marks and the final merit list was to be prepared on the basis of the written test and after adding marks for higher qualification. The post in question is governed by the Punjab State Elementary Education (Teaching Cadre) Border Area Group ‘C’ Service Rules 2018. An amendment to the rules was carried out in February 2020 according to which no person can be appointed to the service by way of direct recruitment unless he qualifies in the competitive test as specified from time to time. The final selection of candidates has to be on the basis of their merit in the written examination and no marks is to be given for viva voce or interview, the court was told adding that the language in the statutory rule is unambiguous and to the effect that the final selection of candidates would be on the basis of their merit in the written examination and there would be no marks for viva voce or interview. However, in violation of the rules, additional marks are being given for the higher education. No advertisement can be issued contrary to the statutory rules and no new condition can be imposed or removed in the advertisement without notification of the same in the statutory rules, the court was told.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-restrains-punjab-from-issuing-appointment-letters-for-2-364-ett-posts-101613419315640.html
16-02-2021||Mumbai||Woman dies after being stabbed by boyfriend outside Mumbai’s KEM Hospital||A contractual employee with the Covid care centre at KEM Hospital succumbed to her injuries after her 36-year-old boyfriend allegedly stabbed her multiple times outside the state-run hospital on Sunday.Police said the accused, identified as Rajesh Kale, assaulted his girlfriend as she wanted to end their relationship. The victim had sustained stab injuries on her abdomen and had suffered severe blood loss. She died on Monday morning.Bhoiwada police arrested Kale, who lives in Kurla (East) and works as a labourer. The victim lived in Govandi.According to police, the incident occurred on Sunday afternoon when Kale had come to meet the victim outside KEM Hospital. After a few minutes, the couple started arguingand the victim allegedly asked Kale to stop meeting her, said Vinod Kamble, senior inspector, Bhoiwada police station.Kale got angry and removed a knife from his pocket. He then stabbed the woman four times in her abdomen. The accused also sustained a minor injury on his leg. “It appears that the accused and the victim had fought earlier over some issue. Kale had planned to assault her and was therefore carrying a knife with him,” Kamble added.People in the vicinity rushed the victim to KEM Hospital while others nabbed the accused and handed him over to the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/woman-dies-after-being-stabbed-by-boyfriend-outside-mumbai-s-kem-hospital-101613419131847.html
16-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai man arrested for attacking RPF constable, ransacking station master’s office||The Wadala government railway police (GRP) arrested a 22-year-old man for allegedly attacking a Railway Police Force (RPF) constable with a knife and ransacking the Sewree station master’s office on Monday morning.The incident took place at Sewree railway station when RPF constable Nilesh Arjun Jagdale was on duty at platform No 1 near the station master’s office. As Jagdale was making his rounds, the accused, identified as Naved Khan, called out to him and approached him with the knife in hand. Khan, who was inebriated, pointed the knife at the constable’s throat and threatened him.With the help of a home guard, Jagdale made Khan sit in the station master’s office and tried to calm him down.“Khan got irked and threatened to press charges of assault against Jagdale. The constable tried to talk to Khan but the accused then picked up a glass bottle from the table and broke it,” said an officer from Wadala GRP.Khan then tried attacking Jagdale with the broken piece of glass but the constable escaped unhurt.Fearing that Khan might get more violent, Jagdale then locked him in the station master’s room and called up the GRP. Khan then ransacked the office.“We have arrested Khan for assaulting an officer on duty and under other sections of the Indian Penal Code *IPC),” said the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-man-arrested-for-attacking-rpf-constable-ransacking-station-master-s-office-101613418652297.html
16-02-2021||Bangalore||'Surrender TV, fridge, two-wheelers if you hold BPL card': Karnataka minister||(PLAYKarnataka's food and civil supplies minister, Umesh V Katti, on Monday courted controversy when he said that those who hold BPL (below poverty line) cards should surrender possession of items like televisions, refrigerator, two-wheelers among other products before March 31."There are parameters for possessing a BPL card. They should not have more than five acres of land, motorcycle, TV or fridge," Katti said in Belagavi, about 500 kilometres from Bengaluru.Other conditions that hold ground for disqualification include earning an income of more than ₹1.2 lakh per year. He added that those who do not qualify on these parameters should return their cards or face action.The minister said that officials will carry out surveys to determine if people or families holding BPL card are legal.Katti later clarified that he was only going by the rules formed by the earlier government."The statements made by a minister of the BJP is anti-people. This makes it clear that the BJP government does not understand the plight of the people," Congress legislator and former food and civil supplies minister, UT Khader, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/surrender-tv-fridge-two-wheelers-if-you-hold-bpl-card-karnataka-minister-101613417787138.html
16-02-2021||Mumbai||Byculla zoo gets 1,400 visitors on Day 1 of reopening, to go live on social media today||After being shut for almost one year, Veermata Jijabai Bhosale Udyan, also known as Byculla zoo, opened its gates to the public on Monday morning. On day 1, the zoo welcomed over 1,400 visitors, resulting in revenue of ₹69,600.According to the zoo authority, the biggest attractions for visitors were the two royal Bengal tigers named Shakti and Karishma and the Humboldt penguins.“We handled a total of 1,419 visitors to Byculla zoo and earned revenue of ₹69,600. This excludes senior citizens for whom entry is free,” said Dr Sanjay Tripathi, director of the zoo. In February 2020, the zoo had got the two tigers from the Aurangabad zoo and had planned to keep them in a 3,500 square-metre enclosure which would have flora, landscape and terrain similar to the Ranthambore National Park in Rajasthan. However, by March 2020 the zoo was shut owing to the Covid-19 lockdown. The zoo authority expects the visitor numbers to go up in the coming days. Prior to the lockdown, the zoo received between 6,000 and 8,000 visitors daily on weekdays, and nearly 10,000 on weekends. It also gets many morning and evening walkers. However, owing to the Covid-19 outbreak, walkers are not allowed inside the zoo but can walk in the garden area outside. Meanwhile, Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar will inaugurate the social media pages of Byculla zoo on Tuesday.According to the plan, Byculla zoo will have dedicated social media pages under the banner of Mumbai Zoo on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram and YouTube. “The plan is to upload daily activities of animals and educational material about the zoo and the wildlife inside,” said Dr Tripathi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/byculla-zoo-gets-1-400-visitors-on-day-1-of-reopening-to-go-live-on-social-media-today-101613418179355.html
16-02-2021||City||State-level committee to probe death of ASI who died after Covid-19 vaccination||Chhattisgarh government said that a state-level committee will probe the death of an Assistant Sub Inspector (ASI) who died two days after he was administered a Covid-19 vaccine shot in Raipur, a press release issued by the state government stated on Monday.“The 34-year-old ASI, who died on February 14, was administered the vaccine on February 12 and was subsequently sent to a private hospital after he complained of chest pain. Later, doctors at the hospital declared him brought dead. The body was sent for the postmortem and the result is awaited,” said a press release.The government claimed that the concerned department had administered Covishield vaccine of batch number 4120Z016 and the same vaccine vial was administered to nine others who are in good health.The release stated that Dr Nirmal Verma, chairman, state-level AEFI committee and department head at Community Medicine Department of Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College, said that the matter came to the notice of the committee and after discussion in the meeting information has been sought.“Only after a detailed analysis of this report will the actual cause of death be ascertained. The postmortem, in this case, will be done by a team of doctors and then a report will be furnished,” said the release.The state-level committee consists of specialist doctors and other members and will investigate every adversarial event after the vaccination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/statelevel-committee-to-probe-death-of-asi-who-died-after-covid-19-vaccination-101613417394680.html
16-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai schools urge BMC to allow reopening for higher grades||Pointing to upcoming board exams, city schools and parents of students took to social media on Monday, urging the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to allow schools to reopen partially. Some schools in Maharashtra and schools under consulates and embassies in Mumbai have been allowed to reopen since January 18. “While reopening will adhere to Covid-19 protocol and consider associated risks, we feel that at least for students who will write their board exams this year, schools should be allowed to reopen,” said Francis Joseph, co-founder, SLN Global Network. While the Indian Certificate of Secondary Education (ICSE) board is yet to announce its dates, IGCSE (Cambridge board) exams are scheduled from this month onwards. Exams by the Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE) for Class 12 and Class 10 will be held between April 23 and May 29 and between April 29 and May 31 respectively. The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) will hold its board exams between May 4 and June 10. BMC officials did not respond to calls and messages. Principals of city schools said attending school in person may be helpful for many. “We understand the associated risks with complete reopening but if students can come with all the precautions in place, it would be helpful. Parents are also looking forward to the reopening now,” said Rohan Bhat, chairperson, Children’s Academy Group of schools, which runs schools in Kandivli and Malad. A survey conducted by Jaywant Kulkarni, a teacher from Gandhi Bal Mandir high school in Kurla, found that 83% of students in Mumbai, Thane and Navi Mumbai want internal evaluations to account for 50% of the total weightage of board exam results.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-schools-urge-bmc-to-allow-reopening-for-higher-grades-101613417632036.html
16-02-2021||Mumbai||Affiliated colleges in districts other than Mumbai can reopen, says MU||Two days after the University of Mumbai (MU) released a circular directing affiliated colleges in the city to postpone reopening until February 22, officials released another circular late on Sunday, stating all affiliated colleges — barring those in Mumbai city and suburbs — can reopen starting February 16. This decision came after MU received confirmation letters from collectors of Sindhudurg, Ratnagiri, Thane rural and other districts with MU-affiliated colleges.“For colleges in Mumbai city and suburbs, we’ll wait for official word from the local civic authorities before taking a call on reopening of institutes. However, we received official intimation from collectors of respective districts and have therefore given colleges in those districts confirmation to reopen,” said an MIU spokesperson. MU has around 800 affiliated colleges across Mumbai, Thane, Raigad, Palghar, Sindhudurg and Ratnagiri.However, colleges in corporation areas like Mira Bhayander, Ulhasnagar and Navi Mumbai will not open until further directions from MU.Earlier this month, state education minister for higher and technical education Uday Samant had announced that colleges may reopen and not more than 50% of students would be in attendance on campus at any given point of time. MU affirmed this move with a circular that required colleges to approach the local civic authority or collector’s office before restarting classes on campus in a phased manner. The circular also shared Covid-19 safety guidelines as prescribed by the University Grants Commission (UGC).However, on February 12, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation officials asked that the reopening of colleges be postponed until February 22, to ascertain if the resumption of local train services for the general public leads to a spike in recorded Covid-19 cases in Mumbai. MU has now asked all affiliated colleges in Mumbai city and suburbs to delay reopening of colleges until further notice.City colleges say that the lack of clarity has plunged them in chaos, especially since many were prepared to reopen on Monday. “We are spending a lot of money to carry out sanitisation of the entire campus. Now that the reopening date has been postponed, we’ll have to redo this process next weekend and then continue the same at regular intervals,” said the principal of a suburban college.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/affiliated-colleges-in-districts-other-than-mumbai-can-reopen-says-university-of-mumbai-101613417212081.html
16-02-2021||Mumbai||I-T searches find unaccounted transactions of ₹1,500 crore at gutkha baron JM Joshi, son actor Sachiin’s premises||The income tax (I-T) department on Monday said that unaccounted transactions of around ₹1,500 crore have been found in their six-day-long major search operation carried out at various premises linked to gutkha baron JM Joshi and his son, actor Sachiin Joshi, who is presently under arrest by the Enforcement Directorate in connection with a money laundering case.During the search operation, ₹13 lakh and jewellery worth around ₹7 crore was seized and has been put under prohibitory orders. Prohibitory orders have also been placed on 16 lockers and 11 premises, I-T officials said.The I-T searches and survey operations started in Mumbai on February 8, 2021. The JMJ Group, of which Joshi is the chairman, is mainly engaged in manufacturing of gutkha, pan masala and related products, and also has a presence in the hospitality sector.The I-T department in a statement issued on Monday said the search and seizure actions have led to the detection of foreign assets lying with a company registered in the British Virgin Islands (BVI), with an office in Dubai. The company is allegedly controlled and managed by Joshi.“The net worth of the BVI company is ₹830 crore, which was created by siphoning funds from India. These funds have been round-tripped to India in the form of share premiums amounting to ₹638 crore in the flagship companies of the group,” reads a statement released by Surbhi Ahluwalia, public relation officer, I-T department. One of the employees, who was also a shareholder in the BVI company, was identified and cross-examined along with a company promoter. The employee was not aware of being a shareholder in the company and had signed papers on the instruction of the company’s main promoter, investigations have revealed.During the searches, I-T sleuths secured various digital evidence and further forensic analysis has yielded email communications, establishing control and management of the company with the promoter of JMJ Group.The I-T probe also revealed that the group availed bogus deduction under section 80IC of the Income Tax Act, 1961, to the extent of ₹398 crore. “The group set up two entities in Himachal Pradesh and was found to indulge in sham transactions in order to claim the aforesaid false deduction,” the press release stated.Tax officials also discovered that unaccounted production of pan masala worth ₹247 crore at two factory premises of the group.Meanwhile, Sachiin Joshi, who was arrested by ED on Sunday for his alleged involvement in a money laundering case against Omkar Developers, was produced in special Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court on Monday and has been remanded in ED’s custody till Thursday. ED’s investigations had revealed Sachiin helped Omkar Group promoters to divert around ₹87 crore of loans taken from Yes Bank.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/it-searches-find-unaccounted-transactions-of-1-500-crore-at-gutkha-baron-jm-joshi-son-actor-sachiin-s-premises-101613416792226.html
16-02-2021||Other||Row over celebrity tweets: Probe reveals BJP IT cell’s role, says Maharashtra minister||State home minister Anil Deshmukh on Monday said the preliminary probe into the tweets by Indian celebrities has revealed the involvement of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) information and technology (IT) cell chief as well as 12 others. “The preliminary inquiry by the police has revealed the involvement of BJP IT cell’s chief and 12 other influencers. The police are investigating the matter further,” Deshmukh said on Monday. After a delegation of state Congress demanded probe into the tweets of some Indian celebrities, Deshmukh had promised inquiry into the alleged pressure on the celebrities to tweet in response to the statements by the international celebrities during the farmers’ protest. Deshmukh also clarified that he never ordered for a probe against celebrities such as cricketer Sachin Tendulkar or singer Lata Mangeshkar. “My statement was distorted. I never ordered a probe against them, but had asked to probe the BJP IT cell’s role. Mangeshkar and Tendulkar are respected by every Indian and we have high regard for them,” he said after being discharged from a hospital where he was admitted 12 days ago for Covid-19 treatment.On February 8, state Congress’s delegation, led by general secretary Sachin Sawant, in a meeting with Deshmukh, demanded probe into the tweets. During the meeting, Deshmukh announced to probe on the alleged pressure on celebrities to tweet.Celebrities including Tendulkar, Mangeshkar and Bollywood actors such as Ajay Devgn and Akshay Kumar took to Twitter on February 3 after international personalities such as Rihanna and climate change activist Greta Thunberg expressed support for the farmers’ protest. The Indian celebrities tweeted using hashtags #IndiaAgainstPropaganda and #IndiaTogether, framed by the external affairs ministry. “There’s a similar pattern behind the tweets by Akshay Kumar, Sunil Shetty, Tendulkar and Saina Nehwal. The contents of the tweets by Nehwal and Kumar are the same, while Shetty had tagged Mumbai BJP’s vice-president Hitesh Jain. Bollywood is under pressure because of the ongoing probe against some of the artists by the Narcotics Control Bureau. It needs to be probed if the actors were further pressured for such tweets,” Sawant had said. Former CM Devendra Fadnavis had criticised the state for raising doubts against Tendulkar and Mangeshkar. ”Where’s your Marathi pride now? We’ll never find such ‘ratnas’ [gems] in the entire country who order probe against our Bharat Ratnas who always stand strong in one voice for our country. MVA should feel ashamed while using the word probe for BharatRatnas!...(sic),” he had tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/row-over-celebrity-tweets-probe-reveals-bjp-it-cell-s-role-says-maharashtra-minister-101613416192655.html
16-02-2021||Other||Colleges in rural Thane allowed to open, train timings a hassle for students||Colleges in rural parts of Thane were allowed to reopen on Monday after almost 11 months, provided they adhere to Covid safety norms and ensure fewer than 50% students are in attendance. Students would be required to attend college on a rotational basis, but only a handful of institutes have reopened as teachers and students say train schedules need to be more frequent for them to reach college conveniently. Although colleges in urban parts of Thane, Mumbai city and suburban Mumbai are yet to receive permission to reopen, degree and diploma colleges and colleges affiliated to other universities in rural areas were allowed to reopen on Monday. “Colleges have to ensure teachers are tested for Covid-19 before reopening. Moreover, students have to be called on rotational basis and the seating within the classes have also to be arranged accordingly. These notifications are applicable for Shahapur and Murbad talukas as well,” said resident deputy collector of Thane district, Shivaji Patil. Geeta Jayraj, principal of Shivajirao Jondhale College in Asangaon, said, “We are affiliated to the University of Mumbai (MU) and have not received any circular from MU to reopen and hence, haven’t yet allowed students to attend lectures. We are currently continuing with online classes and it will be difficult for us to take a call unless local trains begin functioning regularly as most students and teachers travel from various places to attend classes.” The Thane Gramin Shikshak Sanghatan has also raised this issue. “Currently, train timings for all are only during morning and afternoon hours. We will either have to request colleges to change timings accordingly or continue with online classes. Teachers will not find it comfortable to commute regularly though bus or other modes of transport,” said Ravi Rajput, a member of Thane Gramin Shikshak Sanghatan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/colleges-in-rural-thane-allowed-to-open-train-timings-a-hassle-for-students-101613415771966.html
16-02-2021||Other||Pune suicide victim’s kin under pressure: BJP||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) raised questions over the police probe in the suicide case of a Pune woman in which the name of state forest minister from the Shiv Sena Sanjay Rathod has cropped up. BJP leaders said the police investigation is dubious and the evidences are not properly collated. The 22-year-old victim was popular star on a video-sharing social networking app. She allegedly committed suicide on February 8 in Pune. The police have registered an accidental death case and ruled out any foul play. Though there were talks of foul play, the whole episode gained prominence when 11 audio clips of Rathod talking to his party worker about the victim became viral. State BJP vice-president Chitra Wagh alleged that the victim’s family is under pressure to remain silent. “The woman’s father said that he does not have any complaint against anybody. But at the same time, her grandfather and brother have called for a probe by the criminal investigation department CID in the case. The father appears to be under pressure for obvious reasons. The audio tapes which are in circulation on social media clearly indicate foul play, but the police have not gone through them properly, nor is the data from the victim’s mobile and laptop been retrieved,” she said, questioning how are two eyewitnesses, who stayed with the victim, missing. Wagh also questioned about the whereabouts of Rathod. “He has been missing since the incident. Unfortunately, chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray said that he does not want his minister to be victimised or his political life be ruined. I think honourable CM has not heard the audio tapes. This is not about the minister’s life – it’s about the life of the victim. The minister should be booked for culpable homicide immediately,” she said. State home minister Anil Deshmukh said, “Pune Police have been probing the case properly as per rules. CM has already said that the probe is in progress as per the laws. Action would be taken on the basis of the probe report. There is no substance in the allegations by the opposition.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pune-suicide-victim-s-kin-under-pressure-bjp-101613415713480.html
16-02-2021||Chandigarh||All bird flu-hit poultry farms sanitised in Mohali||After three weeks of extensive curtailment measures, threat of spread of avian influenza in the district has been successfully countered, informed Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan on Monday.The administration has been on high alert ever since the bird flu confirmation was received on January 21. Twenty five rapid response teams comprising five members each were deployed for swift action.In the infected farms — Alpha, Royal and Evergreen — in Behera village, nearly 84,505 birds were culled between January 22 and January 29. Subsequently, 2,760 eggs and 1,28,850kg feed was destroyed. This was followed by a period of mopping which lasted for nearly 10 days. Thereafter, large-scale sanitisation measures were initiated, the DC said. These farms have been issued the certificates of sanitisation and the all aspects of the culling operation are complete, he added.Replying to a query regarding the district being free of avian influenza, Dayalan said, “As of now, the threat is over, but it is a bit early to officially declare the zone bird flu free.”For the zone to be declared free of the avian flu, it is mandatory that after the culling, mopping and sanitisation, the area in 10-km radius of the epicentre is monitored closely, the DC said. “The area has to be divided into four zones, frequent sampling has to be conducted and fortnightly testing is to be carried out for two months from each zone. If no more positive samples surface, it is only then that the area is declared bird flu free. In the meantime, formalin spraying after every 15 days has to be done for three months in each of the farms where culling was undertaken; then they can re-start the business,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/all-bird-flu-hit-poultry-farms-sanitised-in-mohali-101613415712254.html
16-02-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University online exams: Day 1 goes smoothly, few hiccups in remote areas||Panjab University semester examinations, which are being held in the online mode, were carried out smoothly on the first day. However, some students taking the exam from remote locations experienced technical issues.Around 84,000 students of various university departments and affiliated colleges appeared in the examinations on Monday.Though majority of the students said they did not face any technical issues during the exams, some of those from remote areas faced problems while downloading the question papers from the university website and uploading their answer sheets.A PU student from Himachal Pradesh, who did not wish to be named, said, “I was not able to download the question paper timely due to network issues and later I faced problems while uploading my answer sheet.”Exams for 78 papers of various undergraduate and postgraduate courses were conducted on the first day in two time slots. According to the instructions given by the university, if the student has opted online mode for the submission of the answer sheet, it should be done within 90 minutes of the completion of the paper in both morning and evening slots.“Despite many attempts, I failed to submit my answer sheet within the given time,” said a student from a PU-affiliated college.The varsity also received queries from students on the first day which were resolved by the controller of examination and his technical team.PU in its official communique said that all the colleges and departments downloaded the question papers as per the scheduled time from PU website and official email IDs provided to them. The question papers were further distributed to students through various electronic modes.PU controller of examination Dr Jagat Bhushan said, “In case students face any problem in uploading the answer sheets, they can also make a PDF of the answer sheet and email it to their own email address within the stipulated time of 90 minutes after the completion of examination. Later, candidates can forward that time-stamped email which will be considered valid.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panjab-university-online-exams-day-1-goes-smoothly-few-hiccups-in-remote-areas-101613415591982.html
16-02-2021||Chandigarh||CBI arrests Chandigarh ASI for taking ₹10,000 bribe||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Monday arrested an assistant sub-inspector (ASI) of the Chandigarh Police for accepting ₹10,000 as bribe to not register an FIR.The accused, identified as Harbhajan Singh, was caught accepting the bribe money from the complainant for not registering a case against him involving non-payment of loan to a financier.In his complaint, Dharampal of Lalru, who works as housekeeping staff in 3BRD Air Force station, Chandigarh, accused Harbhajan of seeking bribe of ₹20,000 for not lodging the FIR.Dharampal told the CBI that had taken loan of ₹3,20,000 in May 2018 for the marriage of his son from Mittal Finance in Sector 32, Chandigarh. As per the agreement, he was to pay an installment of ₹16,000 per month.He said he had been paying the installments regularly till October 2020, but they were not giving any receipts of the same, so he stopped making further payments to the financer. He said he has already paid ₹4,64,000 so far in 29 installments.Based on the complaint, CBI sleuths laid a trap and caught the policeman red-handed while accepting the bribe amount.Blot on khaki June 30, 2020: CBI books inspector Jaswinder Kaur, station house officer, Manimajra, for demanding ₹5-lakh bribe from a man to drop cheating charges against him June 19, 2020: Three constables at the Maloya police station suspended after being booked by the CBI for trying to implicate a man in a false caseNovember 27, 2019: CBI court awards four-year jail to a former UT sub-inspector in a 2012 graft case||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cbi-arrests-chandigarh-asi-for-taking-10-000-bribe-101613415531865.html
16-02-2021||Chandigarh||GMCH: Walk-in OPDs begin for Chandigarh residents||The walk-in physical outpatient departments at Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, will reopen on Tuesday, but only for patients from Chandigarh, for now.Dr Jasbinder Kaur, director-principal, GMCH, said all OPDs will start moving towards normalcy in a phased manner. Each patient visiting OPDs will have to undergo rapid antigen test, and attendants will be allowed to accompany them depending upon the medical condition.OPD registration timings will be from 8am to 11am, though online registration will also continue. Earlier, online registration was compulsory and patients were called for physical consultation on the basis of their condition and doctor’s choice. “Since the threat of Covid has yet not fully receded, crowding needs to be restricted. Physical OPDs will initially be opened for Chandigarh patients. The situation will be reviewed after a week for opening them for tricity patients,” GMCH staid in a statement. The telemedicine and e-sanjeevani facility will continue as such, and patients residing outside Chandigarh can take consultation through them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gmch-walk-in-opds-begin-for-chandigarh-residents-101613415472199.html
16-02-2021||Chandigarh||Banker, bizman get 4-yr jail in loan fraud case in Chandigarh||Stating that financial fraud is as grave as a murder or rape, the special court of Central Bureau of Investigation, Chandigarh, on Monday awarded four-year jail to a former bank official and a businessman in a ₹3.5-crore loan fraud case. The court also imposed a fine of ₹25 lakh on the convicts.According to the CBI, Tarsem Lal Singla, 65, director, Aakriti Constructions and Developments Limited, in connivance with Inderjit Singh, 67, the then senior manager, Punjab and Sindh Bank, submitted fake documents for a loan and caused a loss of ₹3.5 crore to the bank. The bank official allegedly made fake entries and did not maintain a proper record of the loan file. A case was registered in 2013 after a complaint from the bank authorities.The CBI court on February 10 convicted Singh and Singla under Sections 120B (criminal conspiracy), 420 (cheating), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating) and 471 (using as genuine a forged document) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 13 (1)(d) read with 13(2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, which pertain to criminal misconduct by a public servant. The sentencing took place on Monday.In court, both convicts pleaded for leniency, citing their age and poor health. However, public prosecutor KP Singh argued for an exemplary punishment to check rampant corruption.Sushil Kumar Garg, special judge, CBI, in his order stated that the convicts “have committed economic offences which are detrimental to financial health of the country. Therefore, financial fraud is like a murder and rape”.Stating that the conduct of the two was “highly deplorable”, the judge ordered: “Any softness in this regard could produce an undesirable result, namely encouragement to adoption of corrupt means by public servant in connivance with private party, which has indeed to be checked, and not allow to be increased.”Besides awarding four-year imprisonment to the two, court also imposed a fine of ₹5 lakh on Singh and ₹10 lakh each on Singla and his firm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/banker-bizman-get-4-yr-jail-in-loan-fraud-case-in-chandigarh-101613415411785.html
16-02-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC tells ED to not take coercive action against Avinash Bhosale||The Bombay high court (HC) on Monday adjourned the hearing of the plea filed by Pune businessman Avinash Bhosale and his son Amit challenging the summons issued by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) till February 24 after ED gave an oral assurance that it will not take any coercive action against the two. ED had issued summons to the father-son duo in the ongoing investigation into alleged violation of Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA). The court directed the duo to cooperate with the investigation and appear before ED officials on February 17 as per summons issued by the central agency.A division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice Manish Pitale, while hearing the petition of Bhosale and his son, was informed by senior counsel Shirish Gupte that his clients were willing to cooperate with ED in the investigation, but were apprehensive of being arrested by agency officials when they responded to the summons. Hence, the father was seeking directions from the court to ED to refrain from taking coercive action. However, special counsel for ED Hiten Venegaonkar opposed the plea and said the Bhosales had not responded to the summons and hence the plea should not be allowed.The court then observed that as the applicants were willing to cooperate with the investigation, there was no hurry for arresting them. Venegaonkar then orally submitted that if the Bhosales were willing to cooperate and respond to the summons for February 17, ED would not take any coercive action.The court accepted the assurance and directed the Bhosales to respond to the summons and directed ED not to take any coercive action till the next hearing on February 24. The Bhosales have been accused of violation of FEMA and ED had initiated investigations last year. The duo approached the HC last week after ED raided their office premises in Pune on Tuesday and Wednesday and brought Amit along with them for interrogation in the case. Amit was interrogated for around 18 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-tells-ed-to-not-take-coercive-action-against-avinash-bhosale-101613415111786.html
16-02-2021||Mumbai||NCP expels Kerala legislator Mani Kappan over anti-party activities||The Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) has expelled Mani C Kappan, its legislator from Kerala, on the charges of anti-party activities on Monday. Kappan won from Pala legislative assembly in Kottayam during Kerala Assembly elections held in 2016. The decision was taken after Kappan’s decision to join the United Democratic Front (UDF) led by the Congress.The NCP is one of the partners of the ruling Left Democratic Front (LDF) coalition in the state and has two legislators in the 140-seat assembly. The coalition is led by the Communist Party of India (M) and Communist Party of India (CPI).A statement released by the NCP on Monday states, “Sharad Pawar [NCP president] has expelled Mani C Kappan from the party with immediate effect for anti-party activities.”Ahead of Kerala Assembly elections, LDF had planned to handover Pala, the legislative assembly seat in contention, to the Kerala Congress party which has recently joined the coalition after breaking its decade-old alliance with UDF. Kappan was upset with the move. The former NCP leader had claimed the support of seven district presidents and nine office-bearers of the NCP and had decided to part ways with the party and LDF.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ncp-expels-kerala-legislator-mani-kappan-over-anti-party-activities-101613414991881.html
16-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai breathes cleanest air of the year||The city breathed its cleanest air so far this year as rising temperatures and wind from the sea cleared up pollution. Mumbai recorded an air quality index (AQI) — pollution measuring indicator — of 115 on Monday, significantly down from 186 on Sunday. The AQI was in the moderate category. Before this, the city’s lowest AQI this year was 156 (moderate) on January 19.AQI is calculated by the System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) as the average of indices recorded at 10 locations in the city and suburbs. SAFAR categorises AQI levels for PM2.5 in the 0-50 range as good; 51-100 as satisfactory; 101-200 as moderate; 201-300 as poor; 301-400 as very poor and above 400 as severe. Of the 10 locations measured, only Andheri recorded poor quality air, with an AQI of 208. Malad recorded an AQI of 173 and Navi Mumbai recorded 157, both in the moderate category.On September 4, 2019, Mumbai recorded its all-time best AQI of 12 since SAFAR began measuring air quality in June 2015. Last year on June 30, the city equalled its best AQI of 12. “Temperatures have been on the rise for some time now, bringing down pollution levels. Clean winds from the ocean have further improved the air quality in Mumbai. It is expected to remain in the moderate category for the next two days,” said a spokesperson for SAFAR. Meanwhile, minimum temperatures increased slightly. At the Colaba station of the India Meteorological Department (IMD), a minimum temperature of 21.2 degrees Celsius was recorded, up from Sunday’s 20.5 degrees Celsius and a degree above normal. At Santacruz, the minimum temperature was up from Sunday’s 19.4 degrees Celsius to 20.2 degrees Celsius, 2 degrees above normal.The maximum temperature at Colaba was 29.4 degrees Celsius, which was at par with normal. At Santacruz, the maximum temperature was 29.9 degrees Celsius, a degree below normal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-breathes-cleanest-air-of-the-year-101613414932058.html
16-02-2021||Mumbai||Navi Mumbai duo sets up strawberry farm, officials plan to replicate model||Navi Mumbai residents may not have to travel to Mahabaleshwar to see a strawberry farm anymore as an uncle-nephew duo from Panvel successfully cultivated strawberries in Vavanje village of Panvel taluka. Strawberries grow only at places with cold temperature, and yet Sajjan Pawar, 40, and his nephew Prashant Pawar, 32, decided to try to cultivate it in Panvel. Panvel taluka officials claimed this is a first such experiment in Panvel and could now be replicated in other parts of the taluka. “During a farmer’s exhibition at Khandeshwar in 2019, we saw that farmers from Mahad had cultivated strawberry. We wondered if they can then why can’t we. The climate at both the places are more or less the same,” Prashant said. The uncle-nephew duo purchased 100 saplings and cultivated them in a small area in Vavanje in November 2019. The saplings bore fruits after a month and half. “After the experiment was successful, we decided to try it at a larger scale. So, in 2020, we purchased 1,000 saplings and cultivated them in 714 square metre (sqm) land in December. By February, all the saplings bore fruits which tasted at par with the ones from Mahabaleshwar,” Pawar said. The duo has already started getting orders for strawberries and is selling it locally at ₹250 per kg. They also took part in the state government’s ‘vikel te pikel’ scheme. The duo plans to cultivate strawberries in a much larger patch of land by the end of this year. “Next, we are planning to target at least a five-acre land to cultivate the strawberries,” Prashant said. While Pawar is a resident of Kanpoli village, Prashant stays in Palebudruk in Panvel, and both belong to farming families. “When it comes to vegetables, a little variation in quantity of water doesn’t make any difference. But for strawberries, temperature and quantity of water plays a major role. It is not as easy as growing vegetables. One has to keep in mind the temperature and water the plants accordingly. If it’s cold, then the watering is done in the evening. If the climate is warm, the watering is done in the morning. One has to also see that there are no sun rays directly falling on the crops while watering them,” said Pawar, who is also pursuing diploma in agricultural extension services for input dealer (DAESI) from Khopoli. The biggest challenge to grow the crop in Panvel was the quality of sand. Mahabaleshwar has red sand while, in Panvel, the land has mushy mud. With MIDC area nearby, pollution was another challenge the duo faced. “Even with all the challenges, we managed to grow the crops in an organic way without using any chemicals and fertilisers. We used 25 micron mulching paper that kept the fruits away from the mud so that it doesn’t get spoilt. The paper also helps to keep the plant cool and doesn’t let any other grass grow besides the crop,” Prashant said. Dattatrey Nawale, sub-regional officer, Panvel taluka, who visited the farm, said, “It is the first-ever experiment in Panvel and hence I visited them. The fruit indeed was very sweet and it would be a good initiative if other farmers of Panvel too think of doing the same. Panvel rural area has a lot of barren land which could be utilised for strawberry farming in winters, and to motivate the same, I have written to Raigad collector to suggest a scheme to fit in strawberry cultivation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/navi-mumbai-duo-sets-up-strawberry-farm-officials-plan-to-replicate-model-101613414811829.html
16-02-2021||Mumbai||Four minors booked for gang-rape of 13-year-old near Mumbai||Four minors have been booked by the police for allegedly gang-raping a 13-year-old girl in Thane rural. The accused also threatened to kill her parents if she told anyone about the incident. All four accused in the case are minors, said Ganeshpuri police.While the incident took place in July last year, the survivor narrated the ordeal to her family on Sunday. After hearing about it, her father went after one of the accused and was assaulted by him. The father then approached social workers who approached the police, following which a case was registered against the four. The incident took place in July when the minor was returning home after buying some groceries. One of the accused allegedly asked her to go to an old isolated bungalow near the village and then he and three of his friends took turns to rape her. They allegedly threatened that they would kill her father and asked her not to tell anyone about it. A few days later, two of the accused got hold of her, brought her to the bungalow and raped her. A police officer said, “On Sunday, the girl’s father saw one of the accused making obscene gesture towards his daughter and got into a scuffle with him. He approached a social organisation, who took the girl into confidence when she revealed her ordeal. The organisation brought the girl to the police station and the four were booked under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/four-minors-booked-for-gang-rape-of-13-year-old-near-mumbai-101613414631661.html
16-02-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra sees rise in Covid cases: ‘No lockdown yet, but keeping watch’||The Maharashtra government is unlikely to impose a fresh lockdown, amid a steady spike in Covid-19 cases, as it continues to monitor the situation. However, Maharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said the government may have to take some harsh decisions as people have stopped observing Covid-appropriate behaviour.According to data released by the government on Monday, Maharashtra reported 3,365 new Covid cases, 23 deaths and 3,105 recoveries. In total, India’s worst-affected state has reported 2,067,643 cases, 51,552 deaths and 1,978,708 recoveries. Monday was the sixth consecutive day the state reported more than 3,000 Covid-19 infections (from February 10 to 15, it recorded 3,451; 3,297; 3,670; 3,611; 4,092 and 3,365 cases respectively), alarming authorities as the graph had hit a plateau over the past three months.Meanwhile, Pawar said he will discuss the Covid-19 situation with chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday. State health minister Rajesh Tope said the state government has directed all district collectors and municipal commissioners to strictly follow the 3T principle (testing, tracking and treatment) and increase Covid-19 testing at all places where a spike in cases is seen. Tope ruled out an immediate lockdown in the state, but said the local administration will take measures to ensure Covid-appropriate behaviour is followed by the people at large.According to state officials, several factors, including restarting of local trains for general public, increased mingling among groups and non-compliance of Covid-19 appropriate behaviour are some of the reasons behind rise in daily cases across the state, including Mumbai, in the past five days. About 3.5 million people have been travelling by suburban trains that run in Mumbai and neighbouring areas since local trains were opened for general public with restricted hours on February 1. Besides, there is a spurt in activities as the state government has gradually removed restrictions on various activities, including permission for restaurants and shops to operate till 1am and 11pm respectively. The spike in cases has prompted the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to have a second thought about further unlocking or relaxations in the city, including increasing travel timings of suburban trains for the general public. Civic officials said they would watch the situation for a week and take any further decision on relaxation and unlocking on February 22. The city has been reporting over 500 cases since February 10. On February 15, it reported 493 cases, while on Sunday, the city recorded 645 Covid-19 cases followed by four deaths. Overall, the city has reported 314,569 Covid-19 cases followed by 11,422 deaths. The city’s recovery rate is 94% and mortality rate is 3.63%.“People must follow Covid appropriate rules and the authorities should also ensure that they are strictly followed. They will also have to be held accountable if they find any negligence. If this is not done then lockdown is required to be re-imposed to control the situation like it is going on in many western countries. The United Kingdom is experiencing a third lockdown cycle,” Tope told reporters in Aurangabad. He added that lockdown is the last resort if the situation doesn’t improve. Pawar said people have stopped using masks, which is very dangerous. “While touring this morning I saw villagers and people at large were not using masks at all. It is very dangerous and will cost us dearly. Tomorrow (Tuesday), we will be discussing the rise in Covid cases with the chief minister (Uddhav Thackeray). Maybe we have to take some harsh decisions,” Pawar told reporters.The increase in cases in Mumbai has come ten days after local trains, considered to be the lifeline of the city, was restarted for the general public from February 1. General public is allowed to travel from the first train of the day up to 7am; 12pm to 4pm and later post 9pm till the last train. On suspending local train services in Mumbai and surrounding cities, Tope said that they have started local train services only recently and that too with staggered timings. They have purposely decided not to keep timings for the common people comfortable only to avoid crowding in trains. “We are monitoring the situation and see no reason to take extreme steps immediately. It is a fact that Covid cases have increased, but they have gone up by not more than 500. It has certainly alarmed us and our focus will be on the preventive measures to bring back the situation under control. Lockdown restrictions and suspending local train services would be the last step in this process,” the health minister said.Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner of BMC, said, “We are not taking any decision for now. We will monitor the situation until February 22 and post this, a decision on further unlocking will be taken.”According to data released by the government on Monday, the state reported 3,365 new Covid cases, 23 died and 3,105 recovered. So far, the state has reported 2,067,643 cases, 51,552 people have died and 1,978,708 have recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-sees-rise-in-covid-cases-no-lockdown-yet-but-keeping-watch-101613414513350.html
16-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body releases frozen ₹350-crore corporators’ funds||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Monday released ₹350 crore of corporators’ funds which was frozen by the civic body on Friday. The money was part of ₹750 crore funds allotted by the standing committee to corporators to carry out discretionary civil development works in their electoral wards, which was not spent yet. It was frozen after Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Vinod Mishra filed a complaint with the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) last week, alleging misappropriation of a larger part of the funds to buy freebees in Shiv Sena corporator Yashwant Jadhav’s constituency in Byculla. Mishra had also made a formal complaint with the municipal commissioner last week regarding misappropriate use of corporators’funds.The BJP challenged the administration’s decision to freeze the funds at a press conference held on Monday afternoon at the civic headquarters in Fort. BJP leader Bhalchandra Shirsat said, “The administration cannot freeze funds that have been duly allotted to corporators’ corpus via the standing committee’s approval. Any decision regarding this amount needs to be taken with the standing committee’s approval.”Municipal commissioner IS Chahal confirmed on Monday evening that the funds were released by the administration.The BJP on Monday also filed a first information report (FIR) against Jadhav for using abusive words and threatening violence toward himself and Mishra via a chat on a messaging application that took place on Sunday morning. The party also said that it will file a defamation case against Jadhav for making public allegations regarding Mishra’s involvement in Khichdi scam. Making the chat public, Mishra said, “Jadhav has also threatened to end his life. I have urged the home minister and chief minister to give him due police protection, so he does not harm himself. I will not be held responsible if he does something to himself.”Regarding allegations of the chat, Jadhav denied exchanging such messages with Mishra. He said, “The chat has been falsified. My profile photo and name was used on some other account to create this chat. The BJP has been trying hard to malign the image of the Mumbai mayor and me. “ Speaking at a press conference on Monday afternoon, Jadhav said, “All allegations of misappropriate use of corporators’ funds are false. I also did not accuse Mishra of any involvement in Khichdi scam.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-releases-frozen-350-crore-corporators-funds-101613414511839.html
16-02-2021||Chandigarh||Parking fee hiked by 20% in Chandigarh||Chandigarh residents will now have to shell out more to park their vehicles at the lots under the municipal corporation. Parking fee for four-wheelers has been increased from ₹10 to ₹12, and for two-wheelers, from ₹5 to ₹6. The hike came into force after the parking contractors implemented the annual increment of 20%, as per the agreement signed with the MC.“The new rates will be applicable for the entire year. For one contractor, these would be valid till December 24 this year, and for the other, till January 1, 2022,” said SK Jain, additional commissioner, MC.The hikes comes in the backdrop of the contractors failing to introduce smart features in the parking lots, even as the MC earlier claimed it would begin in a phased manner.“The contractors are in the last stages of implementing smart features in their allotted parking zones. It will take another 15-20 days for becoming fully operational, after which hourly charges will come into force,” said Jain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/parking-fee-hiked-by-20-in-chandigarh-101613414451857.html
16-02-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC inches towards pan-city garbage collection||The Chandigarh municipal corporation on Monday inched closer to taking over door-to-door garbage collection across the city with its General House approving terms of the memorandum of understanding (MoU) to be signed with the cart-based waste lifters.The Door to Door Garbage Collector Society, which represents majority of this unorganised sector in the city, had last week given its consent to the MoU.Most demands of the collectors, including sharing of user charges, life insurance, welfare fund and disbursal of income generated through sale of usable dry waste among them, have been incorporated in the MoU, said mayor Ravi Kant Sharma, who had called a special meeting of the House.However, the demand of some of them to continue with cart-based garbage collection and collection of user charges by them instead of the MC have been rejected and cannot be met, he added, during the debate on the issue.The MC, which took over garbage collection in Sectors 1 to 30 on December 22, has so far struggled to implement it properly as most of the door-to-door garbage collectors have stayed away from manning its collection vehicles, as planned earlier.So far, of 1,342 garbage collectors in the city, only 609 have enrolled with the MC and just 147 have started working on its vehicles as helpers and drivers. Not getting adequate number of collectors to drive its vehicles, the MC had to depute its outsourced sanitation workers as drivers. It also failed to pick garbage from the doorsteps as collectors remained non-cooperative.What’s in it for garbage collectorsAs per the approved MoU, waste collectors will work as drivers or sanitation assistants on the MC vehicles. They will provide the list of households covered by them right now and the amount charged. The cumulative amount will become the base amount for their monthly payment from the civic body, with 10% annual hike. Half of the fine collected from residents who fail to segregate waste will also be distributed among the garbage collectors.Those with valid driving licence will be given preference for the posts of driver. The MC will also outsource the work of drivers, and those engaged for the purpose will have to clear a driving test within six months of joining.A welfare fund with a corpus of ₹10 lakh will be formed for the garbage collectors, and they will be given free medical treatment besides protective equipment, such as masks and gloves. If any collector can’t come to work for a long period due to illness or leave, any person from their family can work instead.MC commissioner KK Yadav said: “We will ask sanitary inspectors to get the MoU signed in their areas, which will be done within this week. We already have around 230 drives, and would get more after the House approval to the MoU. The service in southern sectors will also be started in parallel. ”What it means for youTimings of garbage collection will be decided by each area councillor in consultation with RWAs.The user charges will be added to the water bill. Residents who fail to segregate dry and wet waste at source will be fined.A toll-free phone number will be provided for residents to register their complaintsHouse sees heated debate on issueEarlier, there were heated arguments among councillors, even between those from the ruling BJP. Former mayors Rajesh Kalia and Davesh Moudgil sparred over annual increment in payment to collectors. Moudgil supported 10% increase, but insisted that residents shouldn’t be burdened because of it.A high drama took place when leader of opposition Devinder Singh Babla called up a complaining resident and put the phone on a microphone during the meeting. After BJP councillors objected to it, the MC commissioner had to intervene and ask Babla to maintain the dignity of the House.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mc-inches-towards-pan-city-garbage-collection-101613414271737.html
16-02-2021||Mumbai||Partho Dasgupta rigged ratings in connivance with anchor of news channel: State to HC||While opposing the bail application of Partho Dasgupta, former CEO of Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) who is one of the 16 accused named in the television rating points (TRP) manipulation case, the state informed the Bombay high court (HC) that Dasgupta had rigged TV ratings since 2017 in connivance with the anchor of a news channel and had also silenced an employee who had raised objections to the sudden spike in the ratings of an English news channel. The single bench of justice PD Naik, while hearing the bail application of Dasgupta who is lodged in Taloja jail, was informed by senior counsel Aabad Ponda and advocate Shardul Singh that the police had violated the fundamental rights of Dasgupta by keeping him behind bars even after they filed a charge sheet on January 11. Ponda submitted that as per the charge-sheet, while the role of the other accused in the TRP manipulation case was more serious, they were all out on bail or pre-arrest bail except Dasgupta. Ponda further submitted that the charge-sheet itself admitted a more severe role of another co-accused, Romal Ramgirha, the COO of BARC, but he was granted bail within six days of his arrest. Further, Dasgupta also submitted that as the trial was not going to start soon, keeping him behind bars would affect his health as he suffered from various ailments including spinal problems. Ponda added that the WhatsApp chats with Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami that the charge-sheet referred to were loose talks and hence could not be grounds to keep Dasgupta behind bars. He further said that the chats were from the time when Republic TV had not even started. Thus, in light of the facts, he should be granted bail. Ponda also refuted the allegations made in the charge-sheet of Dasgupta receiving silver ornaments and expensive watches from Goswami for manipulating the TRP and said that there were invoices which proved that Dasgupta had purchased them from various places and had the income tax returns to prove the same. Special public prosecutor Shishir Hiray for the state, however, opposed the application and submitted that though Dasgupta was the CEO and Ramgarhia was in charge of finances, it was Dasgupta who manipulated the ratings. Hiray submitted a statement recorded by the police after the charge-sheet was filed wherein an employee of BARC who was forced to manipulate the ratings said that when she informed Dasgupta and Ramgarhia of the sudden spike in TV ratings she was threatened to comply or face transfer to another department. Hiray further added that though BARC was a unique company and was given the task of providing for TV channels across the country, Dasgupta had misused his powers and position to benefit certain channels. Pointing to the investigation initiated by Mumbai Police, Hiray submitted that BARC had initiated a forensic audit in February 2020 wherein it had come to light that in 2017, the ratings of certain TV channels had shown a sudden spike. Hiray submitted that the statement of the employee corroborated the role of Dasgupta in manipulating the ratings. Hiray then informed the court that the state was in the process of challenging the bail of some of the accused including Ramgarhia and the same would be filed soon.He added that the WhatsApp chats regarding the security of the nation between Dasgupta and Goswami were part of the charge-sheet but were not part of the current investigation.Hiray will continue arguments opposing the bail application on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/partho-dasgupta-rigged-ratings-in-connivance-with-anchor-of-news-channel-state-to-hc-101613414152799.html
16-02-2021||Mumbai||Delay in fellowships pushes research scholars in science and tech institutes into debt||It has been four months since Kishalay Ghosh, 26, from Hooghly in West Bengal, joined as a research scholar at a research institute funded by the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR), but is yet to receive his fellowship.Ghosh joined the Tata Memorial Centre Advanced Centre for Treatment, Research and Education in Cancer (ACTREC) in Kharghar on November 2, 2020. Since then, he has been forced to borrow money from friends and family to meet expenses in the absence of his eligible fellowship dues.Ghosh, like many research scholars, is eligible for the junior research fellowship (JRF) programme of the CSIR which pays over ₹38,000 including housing allowance. “I am up to my eyes in debt. There’s hardly any friend left from whom I haven’t borrowed any money. My father is the only other earning member in the family and he is close to retirement,” said Ghosh. Living in a rented accommodation, his expenses amount to almost ₹12,000 a month. Ghosh’s plight is shared by many research scholars in CSIR-funded institutes across the state who said the disbursal of fellowship amounts was irregular. “The fellowships are an incentive for researchers. But since they are irregular, most of us live in debt. Even when the funds are disbursed, they are spent on paying back loans,” said a JRF scholar at Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, Pune.CSIR, the apex body that runs the fellowships programme for both junior and senior researchers in science and technology institutes, said the delay in disbursements was a matter of concern. “We at CSIR cannot avoid taking the responsibility of delay in fellowship disbursal. Payments are released only after attendance and claim are certified by the host Institute, which often has a delay rate of two to four months. During the pandemic it went up to four to seven months as well,” said A Chakraborty, head, Human Resource Development Group-CSIR, which handles fellowships.In Ghosh’s case, his fellowship is yet to be activated by CSIR. The host institute took 2.5 months to send his papers and CSIR was responsible for another delay of 1.5 months, said Chakraborty. CSIR releases funds directly into the bank accounts of research scholars in its 703 host institutes. However, funds are released only after receiving approved bills from host institutes. Annually, CSIR spends over ₹500 crore annually towards fellowship schemes. The fellowship schemes provide financial support to scholars for a maximum of 60 months (5 years) for pursuing research work. Every year around 2,500 scholars join various institutes for PhD programmes and around 1,500 complete their term. “We are concerned with the delay and would like to urge scholars to cooperate in sending timely bills from their institutes. For example, for the month of February, only 28 of the 703 institutes have submitted their claim bills on the due date which is 5th of every month,” said Chakraborty. CSIR is currently in the process of building an online fellowship management portal that grants full access to scholars about the status of their fellowship. The portal is likely to be released in three months, said Chakraborty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/delay-in-fellowships-pushes-research-scholars-in-science-and-tech-institutes-into-debt-101613414151683.html
16-02-2021||Other||U’khand flash floods: 9 days on, no trace of four missing Ludhiana men||With rescue operations continuing for the ninth consecutive day at Uttarakhand’s Chamoli district, which was devastated by flash floods on February 7, there is still no trace of the four men from Ludhiana’s Purba village who went missing during the calamity.The men, all labourers, had been working on the Dhauliganga hydel plant, when the disaster struck. They were identified as Sukhwinder Singh (36), Keval Singh (40), Sukhwinder Singh (32), and Kulvir Singh (27). A video clip, that is now doing the rounds of social media, had purportedly shown one of them being washed away from a cliff on the hydel plant.Patience and hope fast wearing thin, their kin are now camping at Chamoli town, hoping to bring them back—dead or alive. Ajmer Singh, the sarpanch of Purba village, said that all the missing persons were daily wage labourers, who were working at the plant to eke out a living. Bahadur Singh, father of Kulvir Singh, who is in Chamoli with the relatives of other missing men of the village, spoke to Hindustan Times over the phone. “We have been told that my son, along with the other three from our village, was among those labourers who fell off the cliff at the hydel plant,” he said. Bahadur Singh’s younger son Harpal was also present at the spot but miraculously survived.He said that while rescue teams were carrying out search operations in the tunnel, no search has been carried out at the place where the four men are suspected to have been trapped.“It has been nine days to the incident. Though their chances of survival are thin, we cannot return home without receiving some information,” said Bahadur Singh.Meanwhile, those back home are inconsolable. Harjeet Kaur, wife of Sukhwinder Singh, said, “It has been nine days but I still have received no information about my husband.” She says life has played a cruel joke on her and her three children. The condition of Rani Kaur, wife of Keval Singh was no different. She too has three children and said Keval was the only breadwinner of the family.Kulwinder Kaur, wife of Sukhwinder Singh, says she won’t give up hope and is praying for her husband’s safe return. Congress MLA Amrik Singh Dhillon, who had visited the families, assured all possible help to them. “It is saddening that there is still no news about the four persons from Purba village. They were the sole breadwinners of their families. I have collected their details and shared it with the chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh and sought all possible support for the families,” said Dhillon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ukhand-flash-floods-9-days-on-no-trace-of-four-missing-ludhiana-men-101613414092032.html
16-02-2021||Other||High on drugs, Ludhiana man confesses murder; arrested||The confessions of an addict under the influence of drugs led the Sahnewal police to solve a murder case that had not even been reported till date.The deceased was a 55-year-old man of Gorakhpur of Uttar Pradesh, who was killed about a month ago. He was identified as Moti Lal alias Modi. The addict, Amit Kapoor, 32, of Kanganwal, told the police that he had murdered Lal to seek revenge for an 18-year-old boy, who was allegedly sodomised by Lal. Kapoor said that to teach the 55-year-old a lesson, he, along with the teen boy, hatched a conspiracy and killed him with sharp-edged weapons. The duo had chopped off the head and dumped the body at vacant plot in Kanganwal. Police have recovered the mutilated body, which was in a highly decomposed state, from the spot. Sahnewal station house officer said that Kapoor had confessed to someone about the crime while he was sitting at a tea stall in Kanganwal, under the influence of drugs. Someone at the stall tipped-off the police following which cops arrested Kapoor from the spot and started questioning him. It was then that he revealed where the body had been dumped. Kapoor also told the police that his 18-year-old accomplice had left the city without informing him. On Monday, he had traced the teen to Mandi Gobindgarh but when he reached there, the teen and his friends beat him up.The SHO said the owner of the plot, where the body was found, had installed barbed wires on the boundary, due to which the place rarely had any visitors and so the body had not been discovered for so long.Police have lodged a case of murder against Kapoor and launched a manhunt for his teen accomplice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/high-on-drugs-ludhiana-man-confesses-murder-arrested-101613414033298.html
16-02-2021||Mumbai||Only 71 health workers in Mumbai get Covid-19 second dose||Only 71 healthcare workers got the second dose of the Covid-19 vaccine on Monday – the first day of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) drive for this category. The 71 are among the 1,926 who received the first dose on January 16, the day the first phase of the vaccination drive began. The low number of beneficiaries has been attributed to a technical problem with the Co-WIN portal, due to which all beneficiaries who turned up at the vaccination centres could not be vaccinated. The second dose can be administered after 28 days since the administration of the first dose. Overall, the BMC vaccinated 5,203 people on Monday including those who turned up for the first and second dose, with a turnout of 50%. Of these, 1,593 were health care workers and 3,610 were frontline workers. Four beneficiaries reported minor adverse events following immunization (AEFI) such as dizziness, and were kept under observation for 30 minutes before being discharged So far, the BMC has vaccinated a total of 119,339 healthcare and frontline workers with the first dose, of which 91,627 are healthcare workers and 27,783 are frontline workers. In addition, a total of 71 healthcare workers have been given the second dose. Dr Mangala Gomare, executive health officer of BMC’s public health department, said, “There were some issues with the Co-WIN application. It will be streamlined from Tuesday.” In the past few days, the turnout of frontline workers has been better than healthcare workers. On Saturday, 3,864 frontline workers were vaccinated with a turnout of 69%, whereas 2618 healthcare workers were vaccinated with a turnout of 60%. Similarly, on Friday, 3,979 frontline workers were vaccinated with a turnout of 70%, whereas 2,382 healthcare workers were vaccinated with a turnout of 11%. On Thursday, 3,781 frontline workers were vaccinated with a turnout of 67%, and 1,989 healthcare workers were vaccinated with a turnout of 51%. The BMC on Sunday shortlisted 20 private hospitals who will be allowed to start Covid-19 vaccination centres to inoculate their own staff. A training session for staff from these 20 hospitals will be held on Tuesday. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner incharge of the public health department in BMC, said, “After the training, we will give the go-ahead for private hospitals to vaccinate their own staff. Some may not be able to start the drive on their premises immediately from Wednesday, due to logistics issues.” Presently, BMC has 23 vaccination centres across the city for the drive, which include the temporary jumbo facilities set up at BKC, NESCO in Goregaon, and Dahisar and Mulund jumbo facilities. Dr Sachin Jain, from Hinduja Hospital at Khar, said, “I took the second dose on Monday. In the last one month, I have taken both doses of Covishield, and have not reported any adverse effects. I was having only mild weakness and mild fever after first dose, but nothing further. I urge all our citizens to go and take the vaccine shot when they get the chance as it is completely safe.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/only-71-health-workers-in-mumbai-get-covid-19-second-dose-101613414032325.html
16-02-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Cong leader’s husband, aides assault tenant, open fire||Chandigarh Territorial Mahila Congress president Deipa Asdhir Dubey’s husband and his four aides were booked on Monday for assaulting a tenant and opening fire in Sector 15 past midnight on Sunday. Those booked have been identified as Mannu Dubey and his aides Jenta, Nikhil, Vishal and Tarsem Singh. They were booked on the complaint of Gurdass Singh, 23, of Sangrur, who along with a friend Deepak stays on rent at Dubey’s house in Sector 15 for the past one year. After the firing, the Congress leader had accused her tenant and his friends of creating ruckus and opening fire outside her house. Claiming that she had tried to mislead police, Kuldeep Singh Chahal, senior superintendent of police, said: “Investigations so far have pointed out that shots were fired by Dubey’s group. The person who opened fire has been identified. The accused had even assaulted the tenants. We have got them medically examined.” Police have also recovered empty shells and a live cartridge from the spot. What victim told policeGurdass told police that his six friends had come to his rented accommodation to meet him on Sunday. Around 9.30pm, as they were going for dinner in the market, their landlord Mannu Dubey and his accomplices allegedly stopped them and started arguing with them, hurling abuses for inviting outsiders to their house repeatedly. They allegedly even thrashed Gurdass and his friend Ravi, after which the group went to another friend’s house. Later, Gurdass and his friends went back to the house to get his belongings and car, when Mannu Dubey and his accomplices, who were carrying sticks and arms, caught hold of his friend Manjit and starting assaulting him. When Manjit managed to flee, Jenta allegedly fired in the air and also threatened to kill them.  “The person who had opened fire has been identified, and we are investigating as to whose weapon was used,” said SSP Chahal. A case has been registered under Sections 147 (rioting), 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence commit­ted in prosecution of common object), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 336 (act endangering life or personal safety of others), 341 (wrongful restraint) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code besides under the Arms Act at the Sector-11 police station. What Cong leader alleged Deipa Asdhir Dubey had told police that she was sitting outside her house with her family when a group of around 10 youths came down from her tenant’s house around 12:30am. When she questioned them as to what they were doing this late at night, the youths allegedly abused her. When her husband intervened, a minor scuffle took place. She alleged the group later returned with sticks and damaged vehicles parked outside the house, pelted stones and shoes at them, and fired four gun shots. She even talked about seeking protection for herself and her family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-cong-leader-s-husband-aides-assault-tenant-open-fire-101613413911769.html
16-02-2021||Noida||SKM seeks ‘unconditional’ release of activist Disha Ravi, Tikait shies away||The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of various farmers’ unions, on Monday demanded an “unconditional release” of 22-year-old climate activist Disha Ravi who was arrested by the Delhi Police from her Bengaluru house on Saturday for her alleged involvement in the ‘toolkit’ case.However, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait stayed away from the controversy, saying he didn’t know about the ‘toolkit’ case.“SKM is deeply concerned and anguished about the brazen misuse of police power by the government in its efforts to weaken the ongoing farmers’ movement. It condemns the arrest of young environmental activist Disha Ravi without due procedures being followed. SKM demands her immediate unconditional release,” the SKM said in a statement issued on Monday.The SKM in a statement on Sunday had “condemned” Ravi’s arrest and said that “she stood in support of the farmers”.However, Tikait, who is also the national spokesperson of BKU, said, “We don’t know why the girl (Ravi) who planted trees has been arrested. I don’t know what toolkit is. Messages nowadays are going to different parts of the world through social media and several arrests are being made. When talks will be held, all issues will be discussed,” Tikait said at the UP Gate on Monday, while reiterating that an inquiry should be taken up into the incident of hoisting of a flag at the Red Fort.Ravi was arrested as she was one of the editors of a toolkit that, according to the police, “indicates a copycat execution of a conspiracy” behind the January 26 violence during the farmers’ tractor rally in Delhi.Tikait visits ‘school’ at protest siteMeanwhile, Tikait also donned the role of a teacher when he went to one of the camps at the protest site where children from nearby slums are taught by some volunteers.“Soon after their birth, these children have to hold garbage in hands. It is not their fault but a result of faulty policies. It is unfortunate that they are at the border of Delhi but don’t know the alphabets,” Tikait said.During his interaction with the kids, he also called one of the children to come up and recite the alphabets written over a chart paper hung up as a blackboard.The volunteers teaching the children at the makeshift school said that most of the children belong to ragpickers’ families. “We started the school on January 22, and now we have about 100 children. We will teach them till the agitation goes on, and thereafter we will try that these kids get admission in nearby schools. We will speak to the administration as well,” said Dev Kumar, a volunteer who teaches children at the camp.“Tikait ji also visited our camp and told children about benefits of planting trees and also staying away from cold drinks. He also gave them lessons in moral science and told us to keep up the work we are doing,” Kumar added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/skm-seeks-unconditional-release-of-activist-disha-ravi-tikait-shies-away-101613413431579.html
16-02-2021||Noida||Government wants to prolong agitation, says Rakesh Tikait||Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) national spokesperson Rakesh Tikait said on Monday that the central government wants to “prolong the ongoing farmers’ agitation” and hopes “it will die down in the next two months”.His remarks came as the stalemate between the farmers and the central government continues, with no talks held since January 22.Tikait, who was at Uttar Pradesh Gate on Monday, asked the members of the farmers’ committee to make arrangements for summer as small gatherings near the dais would otherwise send wrong signals.“It seems the government wants to stretch the ongoing agitation and hope that it will die down in another two months. They think low gathering means that the agitation is coming to an end. But they should not misunderstand this, it will continue,” Tikait said.He also asked farmers from different regions to be present at the site, according to respective harvesting work.During an all-party meeting on January 30, 2021, ahead of the Budget session on February 1, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had said that “the Centre stands by the offer to the farmers by Union agriculture minister Naresh Tomar”. As part of the offer, the government proposed staying the implementation of the three controversial farm laws for one and half years.However, there was violence in Delhi when farmers, many from Uttar Pradesh Gate, carried out a massive tractor rally on Republic Day (January 26). Many farmer leaders including Tikait were also booked by the Delhi Police.“With the present scenario, either the farmers will find a way out, or the government will. We told them to talk to the farmers for a solution. If we hold rallies in other states, questions related to political motives will be raised,” he added.“This agitation will continue, and we know that they (the government) will not understand so easily as they have got votes without even asking. They are asking for money in the name of temples, and we are asking for atta (flour) for our agitation. The temple will be constructed and if they want, they can get it constructed with the help of interest from our pending sugarcane payment which is about ₹12,000 crore,” Tikait said, adding that the fight now is to save their land, and not about any banner or flag (of the farmer unions).He also asked the farmer unions to apply for a 100-kilowatt electricity connection at the protest site, and if it is not provided, generators should be set up. The farmers will continue their protest by running desert coolers during the summer.When India got freedom there were many people who came out of jail when they opted for pardon on promise that they will not be part of any agitation, he said. “But this agitation has no such people. It has people who are fighting for their land and rights. They are protesting so that future generations do not have to hold any agitation,” he added.The farmers have been camping at the protest site near Uttar Pradesh Gate since November 28, 2020, demanding repeal of the farm laws, and a new law on minimum support price (MSP).Tikait, who has been spearheading the farmers’ protest at Uttar Pradesh Gate, grew in stature after he broke down in front of media persons on January 28 and made an emotional appeal to the people to bring food and water for him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/government-wants-to-prolong-agitation-says-rakesh-tikait-101613413311005.html
16-02-2021||Delhi||Five arrested in two murders in Ghazipur, Patparganj: Delhi Police||Police on Monday said they had solved two murder cases reported between Saturday and Sunday from east Delhi’s Ghazipur and Patparganj Industrial Area after arresting five men and apprehending a minor boy.In the Ghazipur case, police have arrested four men and detained a boy while a 50-year-old man has been arrested for allegedly killing his 42-year-old wife using a Rampi, a sharp tool used by cobblers, in Patparganj Industrial Area on Sunday, the police said.Police said the arrested husband suspected his wife, who worked as a domestic help, of having a relationship with her employer. She was murdered in front of her son, who is married, and the employer. The husband fled the crime scene but was caught from near Ghazipur vegetable market on Sunday night itself, said deputy commissioner of police (east) Deepak Yadav.DCP Yadav said that the woman’s employer had helped her son get an accommodation in his neighbourhood at Ghazipur village after his marriage earlier this month. The woman had also started living with her son and daughter-in-law. But her husband suspected her of having an affair with her employer, the DCP said.On Sunday around 8 am, the woman’s husband came to her son’s home and insisted that she return with him. When she refused, an altercation broke out between them. The woman’s employer tried to pacify the situation by asking her to go to his house and finish her work. “Soon, the husband attacked her with a Rampi on her neck and fled,” added the DCP.In the other case, a 25-year-old man was strangled to death and his head was crushed with a stone allegedly by five persons, including a minor boy, because he had allegedly abused and slapped the boy during an argument in a park on Friday (January 12) in Indirapurm, Ghaziabad. All five have been apprehended in the case, DCP Yadav said.Police said that the body of Aayush (single name) with his head crushed was discovered in bushes at a vacant plot near Ghazipur paper market on Saturday. A murder case was registered and during the investigation the police arrested Kapil after his involvement in the case was established through technical and human intelligence. Kapil’s interrogation led to the arrest of Javedm Rah and Gaurav and the apprehension of the minor boy.During the interrogation, the DCP said, it was revealed that Ayush and the minor boy were friends. On February 2, Ayush had asked him to accompany him to Mussoorie and arrange money for the trip. On February 12, the two met at the Indirapuram park where Ayush told him that his girlfriend will also accompany them. But the boy opposed it and it led to the altercation during which Ayush abused and slapped him, the DCP said.“The boy told his three friends about it and they decided to kill Ayush. On Saturday night, they lured Ayush to the paper market for having alcohol party and murdered him there,” added the DCP.Ends||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/five-arrested-in-two-murders-in-ghazipur-patparganj-delhi-police-101613413131017.html
16-02-2021||Noida||Ganga water supply to Noida to be disrupted for 15 days||The Ganga water supply will be disrupted for the next 15 days, starting today, due to the pipe laying work along the Delhi-Meerut Expressway, the Uttar Pradesh Jal Nigam (UPJN) said on Monday.This comes as the UPJN and the Noida authority connect the main Ganga water pipeline with the newly laid pipeline in Noida to procure more Ganga water.“Now, we will connect the newly laid pipeline to multiple points, with our main Ganga water pipeline from Ghaziabad’s Pratap Vihar to Noida. The Ganga water supply will be restored after 15 days,” said Subendhu Chaudhary, UPJN project manager.Noida, which receives around 240-million-litre Ganga water per day, will now have to depend on groundwater. The residents won’t face any problem as they will get adequate drinking water from the groundwater reservoirs, and proper water supply pressure will be maintained in all the sectors, the Noida authority said.“We have adequate resources to continue the water supply,” said RP Singh, senior manager of the Noida authority.Noida needs around 330-million-litre water supply — 240-million-litre from the Ganga, and the remaining is groundwater.Meanwhile, UPJN project manager at Ghaziabad’s Pratap Vihar Reservoir said the groundwater supply has been disrupted for the last two days, as the silt is being cleaned following the Chamoli incident, near Rishi Ganga.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ganga-water-supply-to-noida-to-be-disrupted-for-15-days-101613413012145.html
16-02-2021||Delhi||Families of those arrested for R-Day violence face backlash||Devender Singh, who runs an electrical fittings shop in Nehru Vihar area of north Delhi’s Timarpur, says customers have been avoiding to come to his shop ever since his brother, Satbir, was arrested by the police in connection with the violence during the tractor rally on Republic Day.“Our business is hit because customers have stopped coming to our shop. Our neighbours hardly speak to us. Even our relatives are not supporting us. They feel that my brother’s arrest in the Republic Day violence case has brought shame to our family. They all consider my brother a culprit, even though a court is yet to decide his fate,” says Devender. Satbir was arrested on February 8 in connection with the violence at Burari when hundreds of farmers clashed with the police after deviating from a pre-approved route for a tractor parade, part of the ongoing protest against the three farm laws passed in September.Read more: Farmers, Hindutva, businesses: The trinity of political economyPolice have registered at least 44 cases in connection with the January 26 violence that erupted at the Red Fort, ITO and many other places in the city during the farmers’ tractor rally and the incident of January 29, during which a group of people, claiming to be local residents, reached the protest site at Singhu border and clashed with farmers and police. More than a dozen farmers and 510 personnel were injured in the two incidents.Till February 13, police arrested 146 people in several cases, 33 of them are Delhi residents. Of these 33, 14 have been arrested for violence at Burari in which many security personnel, including an assistant commandant of central industrial security force (CISF) were injured.Families of many alleged suspects said they were finding it difficult to make ends meet because the person arrested was the only earning member. Many others, like Devender, also claimed that their neighbours and families have ostracized them, fearing harassment by police.Most of the Delhi residents arrested in connection with the January 26 violence come from middle-class families who live in working class neighbourhoods.Read more: 'So much truth': Mahatma Gandhi's granddaughter lends support to protesting farmersTwo more Nehru Vihar residents -- Surjeet Singh, a salesman in a footwear shop in Karol Bagh, and Ravi Kumar, a student preparing for staff selection commission (SSC) exams – were also among those arrested in the Burari case. Their families claimed that they were not part of the tractor rally but were caught in the jam caused by the rally, while going to a gurdwara in Chandni Chowk.“We do not belong to a family of farmers and we have no association with the ongoing protest. Since it was my son’s off because of the Republic Day, he left for the gurdwara on a scooter with his friend Ravi. He was not part of the violence. It’s just that they were stuck in a traffic jam,” said Surjeet’s mother Gurpreet Singh, adding that her family depends on his son’s job which he might lose because of the arrest.Delhi Police spokesperson Chinmoy Biswal said, “The arrests in the cases are being made after ascertaining the role of the suspects and the evidence collected. Any participant in the unlawful mob breaking law and causing violence is liable for prosecution.”The family of Dharminder Singh Harman admitted that he was part of the protest at Singhu border but clarified that he was not involved in the violence. They said Harman, who was arrested by the crime branch on February 5 in connection with the violence at Red Fort, was running a health camp at the protest site since November.Read more: Punjab civic body polls: Farmers protest against farm laws in Amritsar“Since he too is involved in farming, my husband supported the farmers’ cause. On January 26, he had gone for the tractor rally but caused no violence. Police arrested him just because he was part of the rally,” said Neha, Harman’s wife.A police officer who did not want to be named said, “Most of the arrested persons were seen at multiple locations where violence broke out. Why a west or south Delhi resident was present at the Red Fort with flags on his bike during the rally?”Police have said Harman is associated with the founder of a regional political party that supported last year’s anti-CAA agitation at Shaheen Bagh, an allegation his wife has refuted.The families of the arrested persons are being provided with free legal assistance by a team formed by Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC).“The FIRs are not being uploaded on the Delhi Police website despite Delhi High Court’s directions. Three-four people got police notice for their presence as witnesses but were arrested after they appeared before the police. The families of those arrested are not being informed by the police about the arrests or the offences they have been booked for,” said advocate Virinder Pal Singh Sandhu from DSGMC’s legal team.Police officers denied the allegations, saying all legal formalities were being followed in all cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/families-of-those-arrested-for-r-day-violence-face-backlash-101613412892018.html
16-02-2021||Noida||Noida: Dense fog in morning gives way to warmer day; air quality improves||A day after slipping into the “severe” category, the air quality of Noida, Ghaziabad and Greater Noida improved marginally to “very poor” category on Monday with the pollution board expecting no significant improvement for the few days. Although the region witnessed dense fog in the early morning, rising temperature and wind speeds led to a partial dispersal of pollutants later in the day, said weather experts.While the minimum and maximum temperatures will be around 10 and 30 degrees Celsius respectively for the next few days, the open areas along the Noida-Greater Noida Expressway and parts of Western Uttar Pradesh may see dense fog in the morning. However, foggy mornings will give way to warmer days along with rising wind speeds.According to the weather experts, while parts of Noida, especially Sector 114, was still suffering from a severe level of pollution, in other parts, a slight rise in the wind speed and higher maximum temperatures have led to an improvement in the level of ventilation leading to better dispersal of pollutants.“The wind speed increased slightly towards the daytime reaching 10kmph on Monday. Though the wind speed was not enough to disperse the current volume of pollutants, the higher mercury helped. The temperatures in the region on Monday were five degrees higher than the season’s average. High temperature also helped with the dispersal of the pollutants,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, India Meteorological Department (IMD).On Monday, the maximum and minimum temperatures for Noida was recorded at 29.1 degrees Celsius and 11.4 degrees Celsius respectively.“Due to zero wind speed during the early morning, regions of western Uttar Pradesh, including the Agra and Lucknow expressways, may see dense fog during the early morning hours between 4am to 9am,” Srivastava added.He also said that the weather conditions will remain almost the same for the next few days and the pollution levels will not see much improvement either.According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), the air quality index (AQI) of Noida on Saturday was recorded at 368 (very poor) as against 416 (severe) a day earlier.The AQI of Greater Noida was recorded at 349 as against 402 a day earlier. Meanwhile, the air quality of Ghaziabad was 369 — the third worst in country — as against 416 a day earlierBetween February 9 and 14, Noida, Greater Noida and Gaziabad have seen some of the worst pollution levels in the country.The AQI between 101 to 200 is considered to be “moderate”, while that between 201 and 300 is considered to be “poor”. The air quality between 301 and 400 is considered a “ very-poor” while the same above 400 is considered “severe”.According to the system of air quality and weather forecasting and research (SAFAR), the air quality is likely to improve but likely to remain within the “very poor” category for the next few days.“Surface winds are low and forecasted to improve over the next two days. Better ventilation is likely to influence AQI positively. AQI is likely to improve towards the lower end of Very Poor for the next three days,” read the SAFAR statement on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/dense-fog-in-morning-gives-way-to-warmer-day-air-quality-improves-slightly-101613412831527.html
16-02-2021||Delhi||Water supply back to normal, says Delhi Jal Board after Chamoli impact||Water supply in parts of south, east and north-east Delhi remained partially affected on Monday as silt and debris from the flash floods in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli district increased turbidity in the Ganga river forcing Delhi Jal Board (DJB) to operate at reduced capacity.Turbidity is the measure of relative clarity of a liquid. Turbidity is measured in NTU. High turbidity can be caused by debris, silt, mud, algae, plant pieces, melting glaciers, sawdust, wood ashes or chemicals in the water.DJB vice-chairperson Raghav Chadha on Monday said the water utility has overcome the supply issue. He also visited DJB’s Bhagirathi Water Treatment Plant (WTP) to take stock of the situation. “We treat the raw Ganga water which comes from the Upper Ganga Canal at Muradnagar and provide it to Delhi households. But, due to the calamity in Uttarakhand, the quality of water has worsened. The water which we are getting now is of very poor quality as it has a lot of dirt and other particles. Water quality is measured in nephelometric turbidity units (NTU) which touched 8,000, while the permissible limit is 100,” said Chadha.Chadha said the DJB shut down the Sonia Vihar and Bhagirathi WTPs. The production capacity of these plants was brought down to combat the situation, he said. These plants together provide around 250 MGD water per day.“Due to high level of dirt in the raw water, supply was affected in areas of south, east and north-east Delhi. He said in Bhagirathi treatment plant, water NTU has been reduced from 8000 to 960 and in Sonia Vihar it has been brought down from 8200 NTU to 1000,” said Chadha.Residents in several areas complained of zero or irregular supply on Monday. These include Greater Kailash-2, Defence Colony, Vigyan Vihar, South Extension-2, Kailash Colony, Jamia Nagar, Panchsheel Enclave, Krishna Nagar, Jafrabad, Seelampur among others.The DJB in a statement said the Bhagirathi water treatment plant (WTP) is now working at 100% and Sonia Vihar at 80% capacity.In many areas, residents had to buy water cans or rely on private tankers to meet the water shortage. RWAs also issued instructions to residents to judiciously use water for a few days due to the crisis.Sanjay Rana, president, Greater Kailash-2 RWA, said there was no prior intimation about the disruption of water supply hence people could not fill their tanks or store water.“There had been no supply of water since Sunday evening. The authorities told us about the water crisis only on Sunday evening, saying that there will be no supply in the evening and next (Monday) morning as well. This sudden situation led to water shortage in almost every household in the area. People had to buy 20-litre water cans to do their daily chores,” Rana said.He added that the DJB officials have assured them that the supply would become normal by Tuesday.Ranjeet Singh, president, Defence Colony RWA, said there was no water supply in the area. “Water supply was impacted in the colony since Sunday evening, and it worsened on Monday morning as there was no supply today. No one got the opportunity to fill their tanks or store extra water as there was no prior intimation,” Singh said.Several areas in east Delhi were also due to the break in supply.Read more: Uttarakhand glacier burst: 4 more bodies of UP residents found, 59 still missingBS Vohra, president of a joint forum of east Delhi RWAs said in some areas such as Vigyan Vihar, Preet Vihar among others there was no water supply on Monday while in certain areas the supply was either for short duration or the quality of water was very bad.“In areas such as Krishna Nagar, Geeta Colony the water was supplied for a shorter duration and also it was very dirty. We could not fill tanks due to dirty water. Through TV and other mediums, we got to know about water crisis in Delhi due to flash floods in Uttarakhand but the DJB did not send an official communication to the RWAs. We are not sure if the supply will be restored by Tuesday,” Vohra said.On the allegations that the DJB did not inform the residents in advance, a DJB spokesperson said, “The information that the water supply will be affected was put out for the knowledge of general public through social media handles. It was tweeted during the day on Sunday by the vice chairperson and most MLAs also sent out messages to RWA groups. ”In north-east Delhi areas such as Jafrabad, Seelampur and Mukundpur, there was no supply on Monday morning while in areas such as Shahdara, Seemapuri, Vishwas Nagar, water was supplied at low pressure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/normal-water-supply-to-resume-today-says-delhi-jal-board-101613412411000.html
16-02-2021||Delhi||Disha Ravi’s arrest an ‘unprecedented attack on democracy’: Delhi CM Kejriwal||A day after Bengaluru-based green activist Disha Ravi, 22, was sent to police custody for five days for allegedly editing and sharing on social media an online “toolkit” related to the farmers’ protests, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal called the arrest “an unprecedented attack on democracy”.“Arrest of 21 yr old Disha Ravi is an unprecedented attack on Democracy. Supporting our farmers is not a crime,” Kejriwal tweeted on Monday.Later, senior Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader and national spokesperson Raghav Chadha said the party demands her immediate release.The Delhi unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), meanwhile, called the AAP’s defence of Ravi “pathetic”.Ravi, founder of the Indian wing of climate activism group Fridays For Future -- founded by renowned Swedish activist Greta Thunberg -- was arrested by the Delhi Police from Bengaluru on Saturday. Police alleged that she was one of the editors of a toolkit that “indicates a copycat execution of a conspiracy” behind the January 26 violence during the farmers’ tractor rally in the national capital.However, the 22-year-old’s arrest was criticised on several quarters -- from academics to activists to civil society members to several political leaders -- and sparked protests in Bengaluru and Mumbai demanding her release.“The AAP believes that this arrest is an extrajudicial abduction. With this arrest, the BJP has made it clear that they are rattled by the voices and the protests against the three farm laws across the country and abroad. Dissent is not equal to sedition. A difference of opinion with the ruling party or with the policies or laws of the government is also not sedition. The BJP is trying to suppress the voice of dissent,” said Chadha, who is also the party’s MLA from Rajendra Nagar.He said the BJP “seems to be setting in motion an undeclared emergency in the country”.“Could the prime minister be pleased to state the exact two lines which Ravi claimed to have edited? Could the government show us just how dangerous was the wording of those two lines that the Delhi Police went all the way to Bengaluru to arrest Ravi. How insidious was the two-line edit that shook the very foundations of our strong democracy? We don’t think that India is so weak,” Chadha said.Chadha also denied that activist and lawyer Nikita Jacob, another person against whom the police issued a non-bailable warrant in connection with the toolkit, is linked with the AAP.“I have not heard of this name before. No person with this name has been a member of the AAP in Mumbai or else where as per my knowledge,” Chadha said.The Delhi BJP, however, slammed the AAP’s support for Ravi, and said: “The day is not far when the AAP may even defend Deep Sidhu.” The reference was to a Punjabi actor-turned-activist who was caught by the Delhi Police for his alleged role in the violence during the tractor rally in the Capital on January 26.Read more: ‘Not subject to removal’: Twitter on Haryana minister Vij’s tweet on Disha Ravi“Every nationalist feels sad to see AAP leader Raghav Chadha’s statement on Ravi’s arrest. It’s pathetic to see the AAP defend misguided youths starting from Umar Khalid to Ravi. It seems the day is not far away when the AAP may defend even Deep Sidhu,” said BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor.Tanvir Aijaz, political scientist and professor at Delhi University’s Ramjas College, said the definition of protests, criticism and activism has been largely blurred in the country these days.“These ideas are being mistaken as if there is some kind of attack on the state, whereas in reality, it is the contrary. Activism or dissent is needed to reform the state. Protests help fix accountability. Government is the accountability holder which means it has to ensure nothing untoward happens and people must ensure the establishment is under check from time to time. Activism or protest has been labeled as conspiratorial, but it is good because more the reforms, the better the nation becomes,” said Aijaz.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/disha-ravi-s-arrest-an-unprecedented-attack-on-democracy-delhi-cm-kejriwal-101613412350925.html
16-02-2021||Delhi||Housing scheme 2021: DDA gets 26k applications, window set to close today||For its 1,354 flats put on sale under Housing Scheme 2021, mostly in the high income group (HIG) and middle-income group (MIG) categories, the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) has received 26,365 applications so far.The DDA plans to hold the draw of lots on March 3 and the last date to apply is February 16.A senior DDA official said on condition of anonymity, “We have received 26,365 applications and 15,103 applicants have already made the payment.”The DDA has received over 6,000 applications along with payment for its 1,011 HIG and MIG category flats. A total of 254 HIG flats are located in Jasola, Vasant Kunj, Rohini and Dwarka. Apart from that, there are 757 two- and three-bedroom MIG flats located in Dwarka, Rohini, Vasant Kunj, Jahangirpuri and Madipur.It is after nearly a decade that MIG flats in such large numbers have been put on sale in Dwarka, DDA officials said.Apart from the location of these flats, the quality of construction, facilities at the housing complex, two parking slots per flat (in HIG complexes) are a few of the reasons why people are keen on applying for these flats, DDA officials said.Despite the slump in the real estate market, DDA officials are optimistic that 254 HIG flats in Jasola will find many takers. The HIG flats (87.9 square metres (sqm) to 177.3 square metres) are priced between ₹69.62 lakh to ₹2.14 crore. “These are spacious flats, located on the Delhi-Noida border and well-connected with the rest of the city via the Metro and other public transport systems. There is a dual piping system as the complex has its own sewage treatment plant. The most important thing is that each flat has two parking slots. The ₹2.14 crore cost is as per the market rate,” said the official quoted above.Spread over 64.04 sqm to 129.98 sqm, the cost of MIG flats varies between ₹40.64 lakh and ₹1.24 crore. Of the 757 flats, 711 are located in Dwarka Sub-City—a planned residential area being developed by the DDA. There are 291 flats for the economically weaker section and 52 in the lower income group category in Dwarka and Rohini.Officials said applications, payments, and possession letters will be processed online.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/housing-scheme-2021-applications-close-feb-16-101613412290977.html
16-02-2021||Pune||Oyo asked to pay ₹1.61 lakh by Pune district consumer commission||The Pune district consumer disputes redressal commission has directed the Gurugram-based Oyo Total Holidays to pay ₹1.61 lakh as compensation for deficient in service.Aul Kulkarni, a resident of Vadgaon Budruk, had lodged a complaint with the consumer forum last year as regards his trip to Kerala.Kulkarni filed a consumer complaint under Section 12 of the Consumer Protection Act, 1986 seeking monetary relief against the tour operator-cum- travel agency alleging adoption of unfair trade practices and consequential deficiency in service.The complaint stated that on paying a total consideration of ₹1,38,500 for 11 passengers at the rate of ₹12,590 per person, he had booked an ‘Amazing Kerala’ tour with Oyo Total Holidays.The tour charges were inclusive of breakfast, accommodation, all transfers and sight-seeing by private vehicle, and pick-up and drop from Kochi airport and railway station.Kulkarni had no grievance against the company about the sight-seeing. However, the grievance was regarding the transport facility and accommodation.The forum in its observation stated that in sum and substance the case of the complainant is that the company did not arrange any vehicle for 11 persons and he had to arrange for a private vehicle and all the travel fare was required to be borne from his pocket.Similarly, with regard to room accommodation at Munnar, it is the grievance of the complainant that he had to pay ₹6,134 extra while leaving the room on December 27, 2019. Thus, in addition to the tour charges already paid to the company , Kulkarni was compelled to incur an additional total expenditure of ₹51,134.Kulkarni demanded a refund of this amount from the company. However, in spite of accepting to refund the amount via their emails dated Jan 11, 2020 and Jan18, 2020, the company had not done anything needful.Thus the complainant has alleged deficiency in service on the part of the company.Kulkarni sought monetary relief of ₹9.55 lakh which includes ₹51,134 towards refund of additional expenditure incurred, an amount of ₹4,500 towards interest on this amount at 18%; an amount of ₹4 lakh by way of compensation towards mental harassment; besides an amount of ₹5 lakh as damages for physical troubles, the forum observed.“On perusal of the complaint, this forum was pleased to admit the present complaint on August 3, 2020, and notices were directed to be issued calling upon the opposite parties to file their written version. On perusal of the record more particularly, the track reports downloaded from official website, ‘India Post’, it is evident that, notices issued by this forum were duly served to the opposite parties on Sept 2, 2020 at 17:01:26 hours. However, in spite of due service of such notices issued by this forum, the opposite parties neither appeared before this forum nor filed their written version on record, as called for by this dorum and, therefore, this forum directed that, this complaint shall proceed ex-parte against the opposite parties ,” the forum order stated.The consumer forum, comprising Umesh V Jawalikar, president, and members Kshitija B Kulkarni and Sangita M Deshmukh ordered Oyo Total Holidays to pay Rs51,134 with 9% per annum interest from January 11, 2020, till realisation of the amount by the complainant. The company has been ordered to also pay compensation of ₹one lakh besides litigation cost of ₹15,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/oyo-asked-to-pay-rs-1-61-lakh-by-pune-district-consumer-commission-101613410670918.html
16-02-2021||Pune||Lukewarm response to offline lectures on day 1 of college reopening||After a long gap of 11 months, universities and colleges in Pune restarted offline lectures from Monday after the state government’s nod. Despite the reopening after a long break, a lukewarm response was reported at colleges across the city by the university administration. Some prominent colleges in the city did not reopen doors for students today and won’t restart offline classes until all Covid safety measures are in place. A portion of students are still not willing to join classroom lectures immediately. Ravindra Pardeshi, principal, Fergusson College said, “Our online lectures for all graduate and post-graduate courses are underway at the same time we also have a shortage of faculties in various departments and so it won’t be possible for us to immediately start classroom lectures as of now. Initially, we are starting lab practical lectures of third-year students from next week, and then second- and first-year practical will also start. At this time, lectures will be conducted through online mode only. Since the classroom count of students is large it won’t be possible to maintain proper social distancing and other Covid protocols.” According to Pardeshi, another major issue is that hostels in the college housed two to three students in one room before Covid. “Now, we need to be extra cautious with the safety of students and so we have not yet started colleges. We will be trying to open the college campus in a phase-wise manner and not in hurry looking at the safety of students,” added Pardeshi. On Monday, HT visited several prominent colleges in Pune and took a review of students coming to college campus but there was an absence of a large crowd at colleges. The majority of colleges have decided to start offline lectures gradually in a phase-wise manner. The SP College on Tilak Road conducted thermal checks of students at the main gate, while at the Modern College of Arts Science and Commerce, Shivajinagar students of the chemistry department were seen engaged in lab practical assignments and the campus of Ferguson College or College of Engineering Pune (COEP) hardly saw any students around as the offline classroom lectures have not yet started at these colleges. MM Salunkhe, vice-chancellor, Bharati Vidyapeeth university said, “We have given notices to all our principals to follow guidelines given by state and the Central government related to Covid-19. Also, UGC guidelines are important to reopen college campuses for starting offline lectures, accordingly, now slowly our lectures will start. In some colleges, students have started coming back to college campuses, hostels and on the other hand, our planning of examination for the first semester is going on. If possible, our exams will be conducted next month. Our medical students were already there on campus and worked tirelessly during the lockdown period and still, it is going on.” Meanwhile, to welcome the decision of reopening universities and colleges in Pune, celebrations were done by the Akhil Bhartiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) student volunteers today at the main entrance gate of Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU). A ribbon-cutting ceremony was held at the gate and the beats of dhol tasha welcomed students coming to the university campus after a long gap. Nidhi Sain, a student from Modern College, Shivajinagar said, “We are so happy to come back to the college campus and attend lab practicals and lectures now, as earlier in online lectures we used to not understand a lot. Also, there were connectivity issues and physically coming to college, meeting friends and enjoying campus life is something different and cannot be replaced by any online method.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/lukewarm-response-to-offline-lectures-on-day-1-of-college-reopening-101613410611471.html
16-02-2021||Pune||4 flat owners oppose PMC’s flat acquisition to erect multi-level flyover at Chandani chowk||Four flat owners have opposed the Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) flat acquisition to erect a multi-level flyover at Chandani chowk. Union Minister Nitin Gadkari instructed the PMC give compensation as instructed by the courts, to sort out the issue at the earliest. The PMC and the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) will erect the multi-level flyover at ChandanicChowk. Work has been delayed due to land acquisition. PMC claimed that almost 99 percent of the land required has been cleared, with even the defence forces handing over land. PMC commissioner Vikram Kumar said, “Almost all the affected landowners gave the nod to hand over the land and they even accepted the compensation. A few persons are in court challenging it. We are trying to negotiate. If not negotiated, PMC will give compensation as instructed by the court.” Local BJP corporator from Bavdhan, Dilip Vede Patil said, “PMC needs to acquire a total of 76 flats. PMC accepted giving cash compensation. Almost all the flat owners accepted the compensation package and only four members approached the court. The issue will get sorted out very soon.” Gadkari recently took a review meeting of the Chandani chowk flyover. Gadkari said that PMC should speed up the acquisition work and ensure that the work is not halted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/4-flat-owners-oppose-pmc-s-flat-acquisition-to-erect-multi-level-flyover-at-chandani-chowk-101613410552105.html
16-02-2021||Pune||Three booked in Dattanagar firing incident||Three unidentified men travelling on a two-wheeler have been booked for firing a weapon at a shop owner in Dattanagar, Katraj, on Sunday night. The injured man has been identified as Vishal Prahlad Punjabi (32), the owner of the shop located on Dattanagar-Katraj road in the Ambegaon Khurd area of Katraj. The incident happened at 8:50pm on Sunday, when the complainant shop owner of Balaji Trading Company was in his shop. Punjabi sustained a minor wound from the firing and underwent first-aid treatment at Bharati Vidyapeeth Hospital on Sunday night, before being discharged. The three men arrived on one motorcycle and entered the shop. Punjabi was in the shop and asked one of them what they were wanted. One of the three then pulled out a weapon from his right pant pocket and shot at Punjabi, according to his complaint to the police. “He stood to ask them what they wanted. The three were standing at varied, but close distances from the counter opposite Punjabi. One of the assailants, who did not fire, was closer to the counter where he was counting money collected for the day. He could have easily pulled out the money if that was their intention. However, one of them fired and the complainant had very luckily, bent down to do something. Had the angle of the weapon been any lower than it was, it would have killed the complainant,” said senior police inspector Jagannath Kalaskar of Bharati Vidyapeeth police station. The complainant then claims to have pulled out the drawer from the shop counter to hit the three men, but they had already fled the spot, according to the police. The incident could have been captured in the CCTV camera inside the shop. However, the CCTV was out of order. Footage from cameras around the spot is blurry. The police are investigating the case from all possible angles including robbery and extortion. However, the sections for these crimes have not been invoked in the case. A case under Sections 307 (attempted murder) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code, along with Section 37(1) with 135 of Maharashtra Police Act has been registered at Bharati Vidyapeeth police station against the three. Assistant police inspector S Kavthekar of Bharati Vidyapeeth police station is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/three-booked-in-dattanagar-firing-incident-101613410550810.html
16-02-2021||Other||Legal fraternity, politicos, mourn the death of former SC judge PB Sawant||Retired Supreme Court (SC) judge PB Sawant (90) passed away at his city residence around 9 am on Monday. Sawant had been ailing for some time and breathed his last in the presence of his family at Baner.The last rites will be held on Tuesday.He is survived by his wife Jayshree, daughters Sujata and Rajashree and son Vishwajeet.His daughter Sujata Mane said, “My father had a remarkable career as a judge. He delivered important judgments which have benefited citizens at large. He was upright and never gave up on his principles. He will be remembered for his work for the people. He is a shining example of his courageous judgments for the benefit of society.”Besides being the chairman of the Press Council of India (PCI) during 1995-2001, Justice Sawant was also instrumental in organising the first edition of Elgar Parishad on December 31, 2017, and served as its co-convenor along with retired Justice BG Kolse Patil.“Justice Sawant always stood for justice and emancipation of the people. He is an ideal for all of us and excelled in his field of jurisprudence, was an activist and a devoted social worker. His death is a great loss to the social and legal fraternity,” said retired Judge BG Kolse Patil.“Pained by the demise of noted former Justice PB Sawant Ji. My thoughts and prayers are with his family and friends in this hour of grief. May the departed soul rest in peace,” home minister Anil Deshmukh tweeted.Maharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar in his condolence message said that the social reforms movement in Maharashtra has suffered an irreparable loss with the demise of Justice Sawant.“Justice Sawant will be remembered for his contribution towards the judiciary and social reforms. We have lost a person who was vocal on various social and political issues of the country,” he said.Career HighlightsBorn on June 30, 1930, Sawant started practising as a lawyer in Bombay High Court after completing LLB degree from Mumbai University. He wrote several articles and recommended many social and economic reforms in his book ‘Grammar of democracy’.According to the Supreme Court website, Justice Sawant practised as an advocate in the Bombay High Court (HC) and Supreme Court of India since 1957 in all branches of law—civil, criminal, industrial, service election, constitutional and co-operative on the original and appellate side.He was appointed a judge in Bombay High Court in 1973 and his important decisions include inquiry into the June 1982 Air India crash.He was appointed a Supreme Court Judge in 1989 and retired in 1995.He also worked with retired Justice Suresh Hosbet on an Indian People’s Tribunal headed by Justice VR Krishna Iyer to investigate the 2002 Gujarat riots.He served as the chairman of the Press Council of India during 1995-2001Justice Sawant was also instrumental in organising the first edition of Elgar Parishad on December 31, 2017, and served as its co-convenor along with retired Justice BG Kolse Patil.Justice Sawant also chaired the judicial commission which was set up in 2003 to probe the corruption charges against four NCP ministers by social crusader Anna Hazare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/legal-fraternity-politicos-mourn-the-death-of-former-sc-judge-pb-sawant-101613410492633.html
16-02-2021||Pune||525 beneficiaries receive second dose of Covid vaccine in Pune dist||As many as 525 beneficiaries, received second Covid vaccine dose on Monday thereby completing their vaccine course as per the central government guidelines.Of the 525 beneficiaries, 90 were from Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC), 89 from Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and 346 from Pune rural.The district, meanwhile, reported 32% turnout as 2,638 beneficiaries were vaccinated out of targeted 8,287.Out of those who got the vaccine, 813 were frontline workers (FLW’s).Pune rural reported 30 per cent turnout as 1,213 beneficiaries were vaccinated including 542 FLW’s out of the targeted 4,100.While Pune city reported 33 per cent turnout as 2,800 beneficiaries were vaccinated including 173 FLW’s and PCMC saw 37 per cent turnout as 510 beneficiaries got inoculated out of the 1,387 target beneficiaries.Zero adverse effects following immunization were reported on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/525-beneficiaries-receive-second-dose-of-covid-vaccine-in-pune-dist-101613410491508.html
16-02-2021||Pune||No new Covid-related deaths reported in Pune district on Monday||The district has not reported any new Covid-related deaths in last 24 hours, according to the state health department.The district reported 394 new Covid cases on Monday which took the progressive count of the cases to 3.95 lakh of which 3.80 lakh have recovered, 8,058 have been declared dead and currently, 6,503 are active cases undergoing treatment at hospitals or are in home isolation.The city has reported 202 new virus cases which took the progressive count to 201,596 cases, while the death toll stands at 4,556.Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) reported 92 new cases which took the progressive count to 98,609 cases and the death toll stands at 1,320.Pune rural reported 100 new cases which took the final count to 94,852 while the death toll stood at 2,136.The department reported that 3,105 patients were discharged on Monday taking the final count of such cases to over 19.78 lakh in the state. The recovery rate in the state is 95.7%.Also, 3, 365 new cases were reported taking the total to over 20.67 lakh.Besides, 23 Covid-19 deaths were reported in the state taking the death toll to 52,734. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.49%.Out of 1,53,59,026 laboratory samples 20,67,643 have been tested positive (13.46%) for Covid-19 until Monday. Currently 1,74,704 people are in home quarantine and 1,714 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/no-new-covid-related-deaths-reported-in-pune-district-on-monday-101613410490846.html
16-02-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand tragedy: 5 more bodies recovered, death toll reaches 56||The rescue workers involved in the search and rescue operation recovered five more bodies till Monday evening taking the total death toll to 56 with 148 still missing. The rescuers have dug the main Tapovan tunnel up to 140 metres but are facing difficulties due to water percolation in the muck, making it more challenging to take it out.Among the five bodies, three were recovered from the 1.7 kilometre-long Tapovan tunnel at NTPC's hydel power project where over 25 workers are feared trapped.So far, nine bodies have been recovered from the tunnel where the rescue workers succeeded in recovering bodies for the first time on Sunday after starting the operation on the day of disaster on February 7.Of the total 204 people missing, 139 are from the NTPC's hydel power project at Tapovan while 53 from the Rishi Ganga project. Both the projects got damaged in the February 7 disaster. About 12 villagers are also missing in the tragedy.Also read: ‘Not subject to removal’ - Twitter on Haryana minister Vij’s tweet on Disha RaviState director general of police, Ashok Kumar, said, "Till Monday evening, the total bodies recovered are 56, including nine from the tunnel and the remaining from various other places.""Out of the total bodies recovered, 29 have been identified while 27 are yet to be identified. The search and rescue operation is still on inside the tunnel where the workers have succeeded in clearing the muck up to 140 metres but are facing difficulty because the more they dig, the more muck comes from inside," he said.Another team of rescue workers are clearing sludge from another small underground tunnel beneath the main tunnel where about 30 of the total 35 workers were feared to trapped.The rescue workers had vertically drilled the required depth of 12.7 metres to reach the smaller underground tunnel on Friday. Apart from the tunnel, they are also clearing the muck from the Rishi Ganga dam and Raini village to find the missing people."Of the 56 bodies, about 46 were recovered from Chamoli district, seven from Rudraprayag, two from Pauri Garhwal and one from Tehri Garhwal districts," Nilesh Anand Bharne, deputy inspector general (law & order) said.He said, "Apart from the bodies, the rescue workers also recovered 22 human body parts. DNA samples of all the body parts and dead bodies have been collected to ascertain their identities."The police officer informed that the rescue workers have so far "cremated 53 bodies and 20 human body parts with complete rituals and respect. The rescue agencies have also video-graphed and photographed the jewellery, tattoo and other identity marks of the bodies found."He also informed that the police at Joshimath police station has so far registered 53 cases regarding the missing people in the disaster."The rescue workers are working tirelessly to recover the remaining bodies. The family members can contact on helpline numbers- 01372-251487 and 9084127503 for any queries or help," said Bharne.Earlier on Saturday night, the eight-member team of the SDRF which had gone on foot to gather information about the glacier lake about 8 kilometres above Raini village in Rishi Ganga also returned to Tapovan. The team had reached there on Friday after trekking for about 14 hours. They said that the 350-metre lake is posing no threat of any flash floods as enough water is continuously draining from there in the form of a stream.The SDRF, which had gone there with seven labourers, also created a makeshift helipad near the glacial lake to enable a chopper landing, if needed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-tragedy-5-more-bodies-recovered-death-toll-reaches-56-101613400263166.html
16-02-2021||World||US President Biden urged to end Trump lawsuit blocking payments to Puerto Ricans||Top faith leaders from across the United States on Tuesday urged President Joe Biden to immediately withdraw a lawsuit filed by his predecessor to block $2.3 billion in supplemental income payments to some 300,000 aged, blind and disabled Puerto Ricans.Catholic Archbishop Roberto Gonzalez of San Juan, the head of Catholic Charities USA, and leaders from other churches also called on Biden to use executive orders and back congressional action to attract more pharmaceutical and other manufacturing jobs to the Caribbean island, a U.S. territory of 3.2 million people hit hard by the COVID-19 pandemic.The Biden administration should also free up more disaster relief aid for the island and expand federal programs such as the Nutrition Assistance Program and Medicare, they said."Nearly 60% of Puerto Rico's children, U.S. citizens, live in poverty and would benefit from these measures," they wrote in the letter, delivered to the White House on Tuesday.Puerto Rico was already reeling from bankruptcy, severe earthquakes and two devastating 2017 hurricanes, Irma and Maria when the pandemic hit. The signers welcomed the Biden administration's release of some hurricane recovery funds, but said $50 billion more was needed.Biden campaigned against the "current untenable situation" in Puerto Rico and pledged to boost federal disaster aid, end discriminatory practices, and rebuild the island's "significantly deficient infrastructure."But his administration has not yet scrapped the Justice Department's lawsuit under former President Donald Trump to block an April 2020 federal appeals court ruling allowing eligible Puerto Ricans to apply for supplemental Social Security benefits.The Justice Department declined to comment. No comment was immediately available from the White House.The benefits had been available to any U.S. citizen living in any of the 50 states, Washington, D.C., and the Mariana Islands, but not Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands and Guam.Eric LeCompte, executive director of Jubilee USA Network, said the letter was intended to galvanize action by the Biden administration to help Puerto Ricans, who have faced "crisis after crisis, disaster after disaster" over the past decade.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-president-biden-urged-to-end-trump-lawsuit-blocking-payments-to-puerto-ricans-101613496434229.html
16-02-2021||World||New York City's rich neighbourhoods get an outsize share of Covid vaccines||New York City’s vaccines are disproportionately going to wealthier neighborhoods in Manhattan and Staten Island, according to data the city released Tuesday.The disparities highlight the inequities of a vaccine drive that has already been criticized for what New York Mayor Bill de Blasio called “profound” racial disparities.White residents composed almost half the people who had gotten at least one dose, despite being only a third of the population. More than a quarter of those getting the Covid-19 vaccine are nonresidents, who tend to be younger and are more likely to be White than those living in the city.“We have a lot of work to do,” de Blasio said. “A lot of this is about underlying painful disparities and inequalities to begin with. Folks who have more privilege are best able to navigate this process. Folks who have more confidence in the vaccine are going to go through more effort to get it.”While 7% of of adult residents across Manhattan are fully vaccinated, only 3% of Brooklyn residents are, city data shows. The second-most-vaccinated borough is Staten Island, where 9% of adult residents are partially vaccinated and 6% have had both shots.“Just as we’ve seen a much smaller portion of vaccines going to Black and brown New Yorkers, we see these geographic disparities bearing out as well,” said Torian Easterling, chief equity officer of the Department of Health and Mental Hygiene. “Staten Island and Manhattan have the highest vaccination rates, while the South Bronx, parts of central Queens and central Brooklyn lag behind.”Equitable EffortNew York City has been prioritizing health-care workers, the elderly and essential workers for immunization. Officials have pledged to carry out the country’s most equitable vaccine rollout, and said Tuesday that the data provided a guide on how to that.De Blasio said that 77% of the city’s vaccination sites are in 33 hard-hit neighborhoods. “We definitely want to go a lot deeper,” he said.He said supply shortages and vaccine hesitancy also play a part. “Folks who have been doing very well in this society also have a high level of confidence in the vaccine,” de Blasio said.The mayor said the city will be creating new vaccine centers in Brooklyn’s Brownsville and East New York sections, where only about 3% of residents have received first doses.Wealthy sections in Manhattan, Staten Island and the Bronx show a different picture: More than a quarter of adults on City Island have received first doses, while 13% of adults in Riverdale have. More than 10% of adults in parts of Manhattan’s Upper East Side and Upper West Side have been vaccinated, compared with about 6% in parts of Washington Heights and 3% in Harlem.New York City recorded the highest number of vaccine doses administered last week since the inoculation drive began in December, doling out more than 317,000 shots, de Blasio said Tuesday.The city still has a long way to go to cover its more than 8 million residents. New York had administered nearly 1.3 million total vaccine doses as of Sunday, including 870,6000 first doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/new-york-city-s-rich-neighbourhoods-get-an-outsize-share-of-covid-vaccines-101613495824918.html
16-02-2021||World||Nepal PM Oli blames ruling party leaders tried to form parallel government||Defending his move to dissolve the House of Representatives, Nepal Prime Minister K P Sharma Oli has blamed some leaders of the ruling Nepal Communist Party (NCP) for attempting to form a "parallel government".Oli made the comments while highlighting the major achievements of the government during his address from the prime minister’s office in Singha Durbar on the occasion of the third anniversary of the government on Monday.Nepal plunged into a political crisis on December 20 after Oli, in a surprise move, dissolved the House of Representatives, amidst a tussle for power with his rival Pushpa Kamal Dahal 'Prachanda'. His move to dissolve the 275-member House sparked protests from a large section of the NCP led by Prachanda, also a co-chair of the ruling party.The Prachanda-led faction has been holding anti-government protest rallies and public gatherings in various parts of the country, including Kathmandu.Both Prachanda and the rival Oli group claim to control the Nepal Communist Party and the issue is being disputed at the Election Commission.Oli said that his government had been facing obstacles similar to that of a coalition government for the past one year.Blaming his own party colleagues, he defended his move to dissolve the House, saying that some leaders of the party attempted to form a "parallel government".Oli also blamed the rival faction of the party for obstructing the process of the endorsement of various bills, recommendations for the vacant position in various constitutional bodies and hearing in parliament.“Such an inappropriate act was purely an exercise of a parallel government,” he said.On the occasion, Oli mentioned the implementation of constitution and federalism; putting in place the necessary policies and legal arrangements and the encouraging overall economic situation in the country as his government’s major achievements.The government has achieved rapid progress in the post-earthquake reconstruction; and the encouraging progress made in the education, health and social security sectors, Oli said.The prime minister said that the size of public spending has increased nearly 29 per cent and the size of the public budget too has grown by 186 per cent. The per capita income has increased by 23.6 per cent to 1,097 USD. More than 900,000 people have been taken out of absolute poverty.“If there weren't Covid-19, this number would cross 1.5 million," he said.He said the UN Human Development Report shows that the Human Development Index has increased by more than five percentage points, poverty has not increased and there is no hunger in Nepal.He added that 559,461 private houses damaged by the 2015 earthquake have been rebuilt and that 95 per cent of the quake-damaged government buildings have already been reconstructed.Oli had earlier said he was forced to dissolve the House after knowing that the Prachanda-led faction was planning to file a no-confidence motion against him and introduce an impeachment motion against President Bidya Devi Bhandari.Oli-led CPN-UML and Prachanda-led NCP (Maoist Centre) merged in May 2018 to form a unified Nepal Communist Party following victory of their alliance in the 2017 general elections.The Prachanda-led faction, which is currently launching agitation to get official recognition from the Election Commission as the legitimate NCP, held a massive rally last week in a bid to show its strength.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nepal-pm-oli-blames-ruling-party-leaders-tried-to-form-parallel-government-101613495939541.html
16-02-2021||World||Iran's 'meddling' must be tackled before Iraq elections, US tells UN||The United States said on Tuesday that creating a conducive environment for elections in Iraq later this year includes tackling Iran-backed militias, Iran's destabilizing activities in the country and remaining Islamic State elements.Acting U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations Richard Mills told a U.N. Security Council meeting on Iraq that one of the highest barriers to creating a conducive environment for credible, peaceful and inclusive elections "is the presence of armed militias, violent extremists and spoilers.""A conducive environment means that we must address Iran-backed militias and Iran's destabilizing activities in Iraq, as well as the remaining ISIS (Islamic State) elements," Mills told the 15-member council."These groups undermine the public's trust in the government, and in the October 2021 elections. They're killing Iraqi citizens and depriving Iraq of much-needed economic relief and foreign investment. No one is immune," he said.A rocket attack on U.S.-led forces in northern Iraq on Monday killed a civilian contractor and injured a U.S. service member. The attack was claimed by a group that some Iraqi officials say has links with Iran.The United States has about 2,500 U.S. troops in Iraq."Such reckless attempts to inflame tensions pose grave threats to Iraq's stability. Close collaboration between Baghdad and Erbil, to bring the culprits to justice, is now of the greatest importance," U.N. Iraq special envoy Jeanine Hennis-Plasschaert told the Security Council on Tuesday.U.S. President Joe Biden's administration pledged to be a steady, reliable partner for Iraq, Mills said."Among its top priorities, the United States will seek to help Iraq assert its sovereignty in the face of enemies at home and abroad, by preventing an ISIS resurgence and working toward Iraq's stability," he said."For the United States this means supporting Iraq's efforts to hold credible inclusive and peaceful elections," Mills said.(Reporting by Michelle Nichols; Editing by Dan Grebler)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/irans-meddling-must-be-tackled-before-iraq-elections-us-tells-un-101613495791684.html
16-02-2021||World||‘No excuse’: Researcher questions US' strategy over evolving coronavirus variants||After researchers identified evolving variants of the coronavirus in the US, a virologist studying the mutations said that there’s “really no excuse” why the country has not sequenced more samples to obtain additional data on the virus. Jeremy Kamil, an author of the study in which seven new variants carrying similar troubling variants were identified, said that the US has not done enough to get continuously updated with the mutations of the virus.“Our study identified seven [mutations], but there's a giant family tree of the coronavirus in humans as it spilled into us. And our country has really not done enough to keep up to date or keep up tabs on what the virus is doing,” Kamil, an associate professor at Louisiana State University Health Shreveport, told CNN.The study has not been peer-reviewed yet but the scientists are rushing online to quickly share the information with other experts. The researchers believe that the evolution favours the particular genetic stretch, named 677, given the similarity of the mutations.“In late January of 2021, our two independent SARS-CoV-2 genomic surveillance programs...noticed increasing numbers of...viruses carrying an S:Q677P mutation, and that this variant had increased in frequency in samples collected in late 2020 to mid-January,” the researchers wrote in the study published in pre-print sever.Read | The coronavirus may not be able to mutate beyond controlThey identified seven similar mutations at 677 and named them after American birds for ease of discussion and to avoid geographically-associated names or nicknames. One of the variants, Robin 1, has been detected in more than 30 US states but predominates in the Midwest. Another variant which first appeared in an October 6 sample from Alabama has been named “Robin 2”, owing to its similarity to the parental Robin 1 sub-lineage. “This cluster contains 303 sequences, and is found mostly in the Southeast,” they wrote.“I think the bigger message is that we need to be doing a better job -- and a more even job -- sequencing the virus so we can know whether there are changes to be concerned about or not,” said Kamil.The United States has reported more than 27 million coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases and over 480,000 related deaths so far, the highest across the world, according to Coronavirus Resource Center of Johns Hopkins University & Medicine. Although the number of daily cases has been on a decline, a senior White House Covid-19 adviser said that the drop could be misleading and the virus could have “a lot of surprises in store for us.”“Ultimately, science will win here, ultimately, we will beat this...but I don’t think we’re anywhere close to out of the woods,” Andy Slavitt told MSNBC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/no-excuse-researcher-questions-us-strategy-over-evolving-coronavirus-variants-101613492732104.html
16-02-2021||World||UK PM Johnson condemns 'fabricated' Aung San Suu Kyi charges||British Prime Minister Boris Johnson said new charges against former Myanmar leader Aung San Suu Kyi had been "fabricated" by the military and were a clear violation of her human rights."New charges against Aung San Suu Kyi fabricated by the Myanmar military are a clear violation of her human rights," he said on Twitter. "We stand with the people of Myanmar and will ensure those responsible for this coup are held to account."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-pm-johnson-condemns-fabricated-aung-san-suu-kyi-charges-101613495249162.html
16-02-2021||World||Moderna expects to supply second 100 million vaccine doses to US by May-end||Moderna Inc said on Tuesday it was moving forward the supply target for the second 100 million of its Covid-19 vaccine doses to the United States by a month to May end.The biotech firm said short-term delays in the final stages of production and release of filled vials at Moderna's fill and finish contractor Catalent Inc have recently delayed the release of some doses.Moderna said these delays are expected to be resolved in the near term and not expected to impact monthly delivery targets.The United States, which is fighting supply constraints for its large-scale efforts to vaccinate most Americans, earlier this month bought an additional 100 million vaccine doses from Moderna, taking the total ordered doses to 300 million.The company reiterated it was on track to deliver the first 100 million doses by the end of March and also moved forward the delivery of its third 100 million vaccine doses by two months to July end.The US government has so far administered about 25.5 million doses of the two-dose vaccine, with 45.4 million doses supplied, Moderna said.An additional 33.2 million doses of the vaccine have been filled in vials and are at various stages of final production and testing before release to the US government, according to the company.Moderna expects to deliver an average of 30 million to 35 million doses per month for February and March, and 40 million to 50 million doses a month from April through July-end.The company said it would ship doses to the US as they are produced instead of stockpiling first, potentially affecting its weekly supply numbers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/moderna-expects-to-supply-second-100-million-vaccine-doses-to-us-by-mayend-101613489443005.html
16-02-2021||World||House Democrat sues Trump, Giuliani over role in Capitol riot||A Democratic congressman accused Donald Trump in a federal lawsuit on Tuesday of inciting the deadly insurrection at the US Capitol and of conspiring with his lawyer and extremist groups to try to prevent the Senate from certifying the results of the presidential election he lost to Joe Biden.The lawsuit from Mississippi's Rep. Bennie Thompson, chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee, is part of an expected wave of litigation over the Jan. 6 riot and is believed to be the first filed by a member of Congress. It seeks unspecified punitive and compensatory damages.The case also names as defendants the Republican former president's personal lawyer Rudy Giuliani and groups including the Proud Boys and the Oath Keepers, extremist organizations that had members charged by the Justice Department with taking part in the siege.Lawyers for Trump have denied that he incited the riot. A Trump adviser didn't immediately comment about the lawsuit on Tuesday, and a lawyer for Giuliani did not immediately return an email seeking comment.The suit, filed in federal court in Washington under a Reconstruction-era law known as the Ku Klux Klan Act, comes three days after Trump was acquitted in a Senate impeachment trial that centered on allegations that he incited the riot, in which five people died. That acquittal is likely to open the door to fresh legal scrutiny over Trump's actions before and during the siege.Even some Republicans who voted to acquit Trump on Saturday acknowledged that the more proper venue to deal with Trump was in the courts, especially now that he has left the White House and lost certain legal protections that shielded him as president.The suit traces the drawn-out effort by Trump and Giuliani to cast doubt on the election results even though courts across the country, and state election officials, repeatedly rejected their baseless allegations of fraud. Despite evidence to the contrary, the suit says, the men portrayed the election as stolen while Trump “endorsed rather than discouraged" threats of violence from his angry supporters in the weeks leading up to the assault on the Capitol.“The carefully orchestrated series of events that unfolded at the Save America rally and the storming of the Capitol was no accident or coincidence,” the suit says. “It was the intended and foreseeable culmination of a carefully coordinated campaign to interfere with the legal process required to confirm the tally of votes cast in the Electoral College.”Presidents are historically afforded broad immunity from lawsuits for actions they take in their role as commander in chief. But the lawsuit filed Tuesday was brought against Trump in his personal, not official, capacity and alleges that none of the behavior at issue had to do with his responsibilities as president.“Inciting a riot, or attempting to interfere with the congressional efforts to ratify the results of the election that are commended by the Constitution, could not conceivably be within the scope of ordinary responsibilities of the president,” Joseph Sellers, a Washington lawyer who along with the NAACP filed the lawsuit on Thompson’s behalf, said in an interview.“In this respect, because of his conduct, he is just like any other private citizen,” Sellers said.Though the impeachment case focused squarely on accusations of incitement, the lawsuit more broadly accuses Trump of conspiring to disrupt the constitutional activities of Congress — namely, the certification of election results establishing Biden as the rightful winner — through a monthslong effort to discredit the outcome and to lean on individual states and his own vice president to overturn the contest.The case against Trump was brought under a provision of the Ku Klux Klan Act of 1871, which was passed in response to KKK violence and prohibits violence or intimidation meant to prevent Congress or other federal officials from carrying out their constitutional duties.“Fortunately, this hasn't been used very much," Sellers said. “But what we see here is so unprecedented that it's really reminiscent of what gave rise to the enactment of this legislation right after the Civil War.”The suit cites incendiary comments that Trump and Giuliani made in the weeks leading up to the riot and on the day of it that lawyers say were designed to mobilize supporters to work to overturn the election results and to prevent the Senate's certification process. That process was temporarily interrupted when Trump loyalists broke into the Capitol.Trump told supporters at a rally preceding the riot to “ fight like hell,” but lawyers for the former president adamantly denied during the impeachment trial that he had incited the riot. They pointed to a remark during his speech in which he told the crowd to behave “peacefully” that day. Defense lawyers are likely to revisit those assertions in the lawsuit. They may also argue, as was done during the impeachment case, that Trump's speech was protected by the First Amendment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/house-democrat-sues-trump-giuliani-over-role-in-capitol-riot-101613489633516.html
16-02-2021||World||WHO alerts six African countries after Ebola outbreaks. Here's the list||The World Health Organization has asked six African countries to be alert for possible Ebola infections, as Guinea on Tuesday reported new cases and Democratic Republic of Congo said its new infections were a resurgence of a previous outbreak.Guinea declared an outbreak of the virus on Sunday in the first return of the disease there since the 2013-2016 outbreak, while Congo has confirmed four new cases this month.Health authorities have rushed to respond to the cases in Guinea, anxious to prevent a repeat of the last outbreak in West Africa, which killed more than 11,300 people, mostly in Guinea, Sierra Leone and Liberia in the worst Ebola epidemic on record."We have already alerted the six countries around, including of course Sierra Leone and Liberia, and they are moving very fast to prepare and be ready and to look for any potential infection," the WHO's Margaret Harris told a Geneva briefing on Tuesday.Read | Ebola outbreak in Guinea: Symptoms, modes of transmission | All you need to knowSix CountriesGuinea's neighbours include Senegal, Guinea-Bissau, Mali, Ivory Coast, Sierra Leone and Liberia.Guinea has so far recorded up to 10 suspected cases of Ebola and five deaths. Since declaring the outbreak on Sunday, it has identified 115 contacts of the known cases in the southeastern city of Nzerekore and 10 in the capital Conakry, the health ministry said on Tuesday.Gene sequencing of Ebola samples from both Congo and Guinea is being carried out to learn more about the origins of the outbreaks and identify the strains, according to the WHO.As a result, Congo has confirmed that its latest cases are not linked to a new Ebola variant but represent a resurgence of its tenth outbreak, the second-largest on record that caused more than 2,200 deaths in 2018-2020."As for the infection, we're not yet able to identify its origin," said provincial health minister Eugene Nzanzu Salita, referring to how the first person to fall sick in this resurgence caught the virus.Since the devastating epidemic in West Africa, the development of vaccines and treatments has greatly improved survival rates and containment efforts.Further spread of the disease could cripple the regions' under-funded health systems which are also battling the coronavirus pandemic. Ivory Coast, Mali and Sierra Leone have launched plans to stop any potential spread and reinforced border controls.The Ebola virus can cause severe bleeding and organ failure and is spread through contact with body fluids. It has a much higher death rate than Covid-19, but unlike the coronavirus it is not transmitted by asymptomatic carriers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/who-alerts-six-african-countries-after-ebola-outbreaks-here-s-the-list-101613484712633.html
16-02-2021||World||Europe's rights court orders UK to compensate 90,000 euros to human trafficking victims||Britain should pay 90,000 euros (78,590 pounds) in compensation to two Vietnamese men who were convicted of drug crimes despite signs they had been trafficked as children and forced to work on cannabis farms, Europe's top rights court ruled on Tuesday.The European Court of Human Rights (ECHR) said Britain had failed to protect potential victims of child trafficking in a case dating back to 2009, and breached two articles relating to the prohibition of forced labour and the right to a fair trial.The court ordered Britain to pay 25,000 euros in damages and 20,000 euros for costs and expenses to each of the applicants, who are now in their 20s.The British government has three months to decide whether to appeal the ruling at the ECHR's grand chamber.Britain's Home Office (interior ministry) was not immediately available to comment on the verdict.Anti-slavery advocates welcomed the ruling and said it could affect the treatment of victims in other European nations."It's actually a game changer on the rights of all victims of trafficking to protection," said Parosha Chandran, a barrister who represented one of the two applicants in the case."This judgment will count for many victims today, tomorrow and in many years to come," she added.In its ruling, the Strasbourg-based court outlined how the two Vietnamese applicants - referred to as V.C.L. and A.N. - were discovered working on cannabis farms in Britain in 2009, and charged with drugs offences to which they pleaded guilty.Following their conviction, the two teenagers were detained in young offenders' institutions before later being recognised by British authorities as victims of human trafficking.However, prosecutors ultimately concluded that they had not been trafficked and Britain's Court of Appeal ruled that the decision to prosecute them had been justified, the ruling said.But the ECHR said prosecutors did not give clear reasons to challenge the classification of the two Vietnamese as victims of trafficking, and that the Court of Appeal had only addressed whether the decision to prosecute had been an abuse of process.The lack of any assessment of whether the applicants had been trafficked may have prevented them from securing important evidence capable of helping their defence, the ruling said.The United Kingdom thus violated Article 4 - prohibition of forced labour - and Article 6 - right to a fair trial - under the European Convention on Human Rights, according to the ECHR.A record 10,627 suspected modern slaves were identified in Britain in 2019 - up by 52% in a year - while the COVID-19 pandemic has pushed the crime further underground with victims less likely to be found or receive help, according to activists.Police, lawyers and campaigners have raised concerns that children are often prosecuted on drug charges despite evidence suggesting they were coerced, and a legal defence protecting such defendants under Britain's 2015 Modern Slavery Act."This case overwhelmingly proves identification is key for child victims of trafficking, particularly if they are caught up in criminal exploitation," said Anna Sereni, coordinator of the Anti-Trafficking Monitoring Group, a coalition of charities."We're glad that the ECHR acknowledged the importance of protecting children through principles of non-punishment and non-prosecution," she told the Thomson Reuters Foundation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/europes-rights-court-orders-uk-to-compensate-90-000-euros-to-human-trafficking-victims-101613481490293.html
16-02-2021||World||UK to return medals to veterans discharged because of sexuality||The British military will allow former service personnel who were stripped of medals because of their sexuality to apply to have them restored after a Royal Navy veteran’s 27-year battle to have his decorations returned.The Ministry of Defense announced the new policy on Tuesday, more than two decades after Britain lifted its ban on lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender service personnel in 2000.“LGBT personnel have and continue to make significant contributions to the armed forces,'' said Johnny Mercer, the veterans minister. “Today's announcement addresses a historic injustice and demonstrates that the military is a positive place to work for all who choose to serve.''The announcement came a year after Joe Ousalice, now 70, had his Long Service and Good Conduct medal, as well as three Good Conduct badges, restored during a ceremony at the Royal Navy headquarters in Portsmouth harbor.Ousalice is an 18-year Navy veteran who served in the Falklands War, the Middle East and six tours of duty in Northern Ireland. He was discharged and stripped of his medals in 1993 on the grounds that his conduct was “prejudicial to good order and naval discipline,” even though he had sought to keep his sexuality secret.He was forced to admit his sexuality during a court martial that found him guilty of being in bed with another man, a charge he always denied.Ousalice fought to have his medals returned but was unsuccessful until he took legal action against the Ministry of Defense in May of 2019. The ministry settled the case in December of that year, apologizing to Ousalice and promising to return the medals of other veterans in similar situations.“The Navy was my life and I loved it,” Ousalice said the day his decorations were returned. “I spent 18 years serving before losing my medal and having my rank and pension reduced, and I know there are many like me who deserve to have this injustice recognized.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-to-return-medals-to-veterans-discharged-because-of-sexuality-101613481454522.html
16-02-2021||World||Europe's rights court orders UK to compensate human trafficking victims||Britain should pay 90,000 euros (78,590 pounds) in compensation to two Vietnamese men who were convicted of drug crimes despite signs they had been trafficked as children and forced to work on cannabis farms, Europe's top rights court ruled on Tuesday.The European Court of Human Rights (ECHR) said Britain had failed to protect potential victims of child trafficking in a case dating back to 2009, and breached two articles relating to the prohibition of forced labour and the right to a fair trial.The court ordered Britain to pay 25,000 euros in damages and 20,000 euros for costs and expenses to each of the applicants, who are now in their 20s.The British government has three months to decide whether to appeal the ruling at the ECHR's grand chamber.Britain's Home Office (interior ministry) was not immediately available to comment on the verdict.Anti-slavery advocates welcomed the ruling and said it could affect the treatment of victims in other European nations."It's actually a game changer on the rights of all victims of trafficking to protection," said Parosha Chandran, a barrister who represented one of the two applicants in the case."This judgment will count for many victims today, tomorrow and in many years to come," she added.In its ruling, the Strasbourg-based court outlined how the two Vietnamese applicants - referred to as V.C.L. and A.N. - were discovered working on cannabis farms in Britain in 2009, and charged with drugs offences to which they pleaded guilty.Following their conviction, the two teenagers were detained in young offenders' institutions before later being recognised by British authorities as victims of human trafficking.However, prosecutors ultimately concluded that they had not been trafficked and Britain's Court of Appeal ruled that the decision to prosecute them had been justified, the ruling said.But the ECHR said prosecutors did not give clear reasons to challenge the classification of the two Vietnamese as victims of trafficking, and that the Court of Appeal had only addressed whether the decision to prosecute had been an abuse of process.The lack of any assessment of whether the applicants had been trafficked may have prevented them from securing important evidence capable of helping their defence, the ruling said.The United Kingdom thus violated Article 4 - prohibition of forced labour - and Article 6 - right to a fair trial - under the European Convention on Human Rights, according to the ECHR.A record 10,627 suspected modern slaves were identified in Britain in 2019 - up by 52% in a year - while the Covid-19 pandemic has pushed the crime further underground with victims less likely to be found or receive help, according to activists.Police, lawyers and campaigners have raised concerns that children are often prosecuted on drug charges despite evidence suggesting they were coerced, and a legal defence protecting such defendants under Britain's 2015 Modern Slavery Act."This case overwhelmingly proves identification is key for child victims of trafficking, particularly if they are caught up in criminal exploitation," said Anna Sereni, coordinator of the Anti-Trafficking Monitoring Group, a coalition of charities."We're glad that the ECHR acknowledged the importance of protecting children through principles of non-punishment and non-prosecution," she told the Thomson Reuters Foundation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/europes-rights-court-orders-uk-to-compensate-human-trafficking-victims-101613481304871.html
16-02-2021||World||North Korea hackers targeted vaccine technology: S Korea spy agency||North Korean hackers attempted to steal information about coronavirus vaccines and treatments, South Korea’s intelligence service said Tuesday, but it denied a lawmaker's claim that vaccine maker Pfizer Inc. was targeted.Earlier Tuesday, Ha Tae-keung, a member of parliament’s intelligence committee, told reporters that the National Intelligence Service told him and other lawmakers during a closed-door briefing that North Korea hacked Pfizer to obtain Covid-19 vaccine technology.After Ha’s comments made headlines, the NIS said it didn’t mention any pharmaceutical company by name when it told lawmakers that North Korean hackers were going after coronavirus vaccine information. In an unusual rebuke, the NIS public affairs office called Ha’s comments “wrong.”Ha stood by his claim when contacted by The Associated Press, saying the NIS documents he was shown said that “North Korea stole Pfizer (vaccine information) and attempted to steal (technology) from South Korean vaccine and pharmaceutical firms.” He said the lawmakers were required to return the documents at the end of the briefing.Ha said the wording about Pfizer “was so clear that I didn’t even ask about that verbally” during the briefing.The NIS, which has a mixed record on confirming developments in North Korea, rarely comments on North Korea-related information it provides to lawmakers at private briefings. Ha suggested the NIS was likely trying not to anger North Korea too much.Kwon Bo-young, a public relations manager at Pfizer’s South Korean office, said in text message that it was checking Ha’s claim with its global headquarters.Ha is one of the two executive secretaries of the intelligence committees whose responsibilities include relaying the content of private NIS briefings at parliament to journalists.The office of Kim Byung-kee, the other executive secretary at the intelligence committee, didn’t immediately respond to a request to verify Ha’s comments.While North Korea has denied involvement, it has been linked to a slew of prominent cyberattacks in recent years, including a 2013 campaign that paralyzed the servers of South Korean financial institutions, the 2014 hacking of Sony Pictures, and the WannaCry malware attack of 2017.Acquiring coronavirus vaccines is crucial for North Korea, whose public health care system is in shambles. Many outside experts are highly skeptical about North Korea’s claims to have had no coronavirus cases but say the country likely has avoided a widespread outbreak thanks to more than a year of stringent lockdowns.An international health group established to promote global access to coronavirus vaccines said earlier this month that North Korea could potentially receive 1.9 million doses of vaccines manufactured in India during the first half of the year.The World Health Organization-backed Covax said in a forecast that the supplies going to North Korea will likely be provided by India’s Serum Institute, which is licensed to produce vaccines that AstraZeneca developed with the University of Oxford.The current South Korean government of President Moon Jae-in espouses rapprochement with North Korea and a negotiated settlement of the global standoff over North Korea’s nuclear program. Moon was a driving force behind now-dormant nuclear diplomacy between North Korea and the United States.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/north-korea-hackers-targeted-vaccine-technology-s-korea-spy-agency-101613479112617.html
16-02-2021||World||Hamas condemns Israel over blocking Covid vaccines to Gaza||Hamas on Tuesday blasted Israel's refusal to allow some 2,000 coronavirus vaccine doses destined for Gaza health workers through its blockade of the territory as a "violation" of international law.The Palestinian Authority, based in the Israeli-occupied West Bank, had planned to send the Russian Sputnik V doses through Israel to Gaza, a separate territory run by Islamist movement Hamas.But on Monday evening, the PA health ministry said Israel had blocked the delivery.Israel's move marked "a real crime and a violation of all international laws and humanitarian standards," Hamas spokesman Hazem Qassem said.COGAT, the Israeli military department that runs civil affairs in the occupied Palestinian territories, said Monday that the PA had requested to transfer 1,000 vaccine doses to Gaza but that "this request is waiting for a political decision".The Palestinian Authority on Tuesday urged the World Health Organization to "condemn Israel" for the obstruction.The PA called on the WHO and other international organisations "to hold (Israel) fully responsible for the dangers arising from preventing the entry of vaccines into the Gaza Strip," spokesman Ibrahim Melhem said.The PA said Monday that its own vaccination campaign for the general public had been pushed back due to a delay in deliveries.It had been anticipating a shipment by the middle of this month, enabling it to start vaccinating the general public in the West Bank while sharing stock with Hamas.The PA is expecting some two million doses ordered from various manufacturers, in addition to vaccines from the UN-backed Covax programme, set up to help less wealthy nations procure vaccines.It began inoculating frontline healthcare workers earlier this month with an initial procurement of 10,000 doses of the Sputnik V vaccine, as well as several thousand doses of the Moderna product.Israel, which is carrying out one of the world's fastest vaccination campaigns per capita, has faced international calls to share its stocks with Palestinians living in the occupied West Bank and blockaded Gaza.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hamas-condemns-israel-over-blocking-covid-vaccines-to-gaza-101613479137051.html
16-02-2021||World||Prez Biden to pitch stimulus bill in Wisconsin, US state hard hit by pandemic||U.S. President Joe Biden will travel to Wisconsin on Tuesday to press his case for a $1.9 trillion pandemic relief bill in the political battleground state that helped secure his victory in last year's presidential election.White House spokeswoman Jen Psaki said last week that Biden would do a CNN town hall with voters while visiting the state, hard hit by the pandemic and its economic fallout."That's an opportunity to hear directly from people about how the dual crises are impacting them," she told reporters.Biden has traveled to his home state of Delaware and to the Camp David presidential retreat since taking office on Jan. 20, but the trip to Milwaukee, Wisconsin's largest city, is his first on official business since becoming commander-in-chief.The state, which has 10 Electoral College votes, sided with the Democratic president over Donald Trump, then the Republican incumbent, by a narrow margin in the November election.With the U.S. Senate having acquitted Trump in his second impeachment trial on Saturday, the White House is eager to press ahead with Biden's agenda on the economy, fighting Covid-19, curbing climate change and addressing racial inequality.Biden wants Congress to pass his $1.9 trillion pandemic relief bill in the coming weeks in order to get $1,400 stimulus checks out to Americans and bolster unemployment payments.The White House strategy to promote the package and other policy goals involves getting out to voters. Having been vaccinated for the coronavirus, Biden, 78, is stepping up his travel in coming days.On Thursday he will visit Michigan, another political swing state, to see a Pfizer manufacturing site and talk to workers involved in making the company's Covid-19 vaccine. Its 16 Electoral College votes also contributed to Biden's election win.Wisconsin had supported Democratic presidential candidates for nearly two decades before backing Trump in 2016, helping him defeat former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton. In 2020, it helped give Biden a 306-232 vote edge in the Electoral College.The president faces resistance from Republicans over the high price tag of the stimulus bill. Biden and his allies have argued that going "big" will help boost the economy and bring the pandemic under control in a country where more than 485,000 people have died from Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/prez-biden-to-pitch-stimulus-bill-in-wisconsin-us-state-hard-hit-by-pandemic-101613478848719.html
16-02-2021||World||NATO to agree larger Iraq training force as violence rises||NATO defence ministers are set to expand the military alliance's training mission in Iraq once the coronavirus pandemic eases, senior officials and diplomats said, potentially cementing a broader role for the Atlantic alliance in the Middle East.Ministers are set to agree plans on Thursday during a video conference, potentially taking the mission from its current maximum of some 500 troops to around 4,000 or 5,000, four diplomats said.NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg said on Monday he expected defence ministers to agree to an expanded mission, with more allied personnel working in more security institutions across Iraq."The mission will expand gradually, in response to the situation," he said.NATO has had a non-combat, "train-and-advise" mission in Baghdad since October 2018 but plans to expand it were delayed, in part, by Covid-19 and also due to concerns about regional stability after a U.S. drone killed a top Iranian commander in Baghdad on Jan. 3. 2020.Earlier expansion plans were mainly in response to a demand by then-U.S. President Donald Trump for NATO to do more in the Middle East. This time, Iraqi Prime Minister Mustafa al-Kadhimi, a former intelligence chief and U.S. ally who took office in May, is eager to have a greater NATO presence in the country at a time of rising insecurity, diplomats said.A rocket attack on U.S.-led forces in northern Iraq killed a civilian contractor on Monday and injured a U.S. service member, in the deadliest such incident in almost a year.Paramilitary groups aligned with Iran in Iraq and Yemen have launched attacks against the United States and its Arab allies in recent weeks, including a drone attack on a Saudi airport and a rocket attack on the U.S. Embassy in Baghdad.NATO will likely take over some of the training activities carried out by the U.S.-led coalition against Islamic State. The allied mission, involving allies including Britain, Turkey and Denmark and led by a Danish commander, is seen as more acceptable to Iraqis than a U.S. training force, diplomats said.Currently, the NATO mission only trains and advises members of the Iraqi security institutions and forces who are under the direct control of the Iraqi government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nato-to-agree-larger-iraq-training-force-as-violence-rises-101613477701783.html
16-02-2021||World||China arrests kingpin of fake Covid vaccine gang||China has arrested dozens of suspects including the kingpin of a gang who packaged and sold thousands of doses of fake Covid-19 vaccines in the country and abroad, state media reports said.The leader of the gang, identified as Kong, packaged some 58,000 doses of saline and mineral water solutions as anti-Covid vaccine and sold them in batches including to unidentified countries. They made profit worth some 18million yuan ($2.78mn).Kong closely studied the design of vaccine packages available in the market and online before launching the multi-million-dollar fraud, official news agency Xinhua said in a report.The report did not say to which country the fake vaccines were smuggled to.Though the racket was busted last year, and formal arrests were made weeks ago, the information about the fake vaccine racket was only released by the government this week.At least 70 people have been arrested in similar fake vaccine scandals until early this month, the report added.Police from several provinces including capital Beijing were involved in the investigation, raids and arrests, the report said.The suspects had been profiting from the illegal manufacturing and sales of the vaccines since as early as September 2020, it has emerged.Kong and his accomplices allegedly told potential buyers that the vaccines were sourced through channels working within real vaccine manufacturers; some batches were sold at inflated prices to hospitals.“The police investigations showed much of the counterfeit vaccines were merely saline solutions scalped at a very high price. Some of the fake vaccines were smuggled out of the country, which has tarnished Chinese brand vaccines,” the Xinhua report added.China’s top agency for investigation and prosecution, the Supreme People’s Procuratorate on Monday asked procuratorates across the country to cooperate with public security authorities to crackdown on crimes involving the production and sale of counterfeit Covid-19 vaccines.China, which had given 40.52 million doses of vaccine to key groups of people by February 9, has largely managed to bring the Covid-19 pandemic under control – notwithstanding a few localised outbreaks recently - with strict lockdowns, testing and contact tracing measures.China had plans to vaccinate 50 million citizens before the start of the ongoing Lunar New Year holiday but seems to have fallen short of the target.A state media report said last week that China is providing vaccine aid to 53 developing countries and exporting vaccines to 22 countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-arrests-kingpin-of-fake-covid-vaccine-gang-101613476916594.html
16-02-2021||World||UK set for new laws to protect free speech on campus||Britain is set to introduce new laws guaranteeing freedom of speech in universities to counteract what the government on Tuesday called "unacceptable silencing and censoring" on campuses.As part of the plans, the government is considering appointing a "free speech champion" to investigate possible breaches of the right to expression, while academics who lose their jobs in similar disputes may be able to claim compensation."I am deeply worried about the chilling effect on campuses of unacceptable silencing and censoring," said education minister Gavin Williamson."That is why we must strengthen free speech in higher education, by bolstering the existing legal duties and ensuring strong, robust action is taken if these are breached."However, the government was accused of exploiting culture wars, after itself launching a pushback against the toppling of slavery-era statues and efforts to educate Britons about their colonial past, in the wake of last year's Black Lives Matter protests.Just six events out of almost 10,000 involving an external speaker were cancelled over the speakers' views in 2019-20, according to a survey in December by the group Wonkhe, which analyses higher education policy."The government has tapped into a wider push by conservatives, right-leaning libertarians and 'classical liberals' to combat 'cancel culture' and the supposed 'woke left' agenda that they claim has led to a crisis of free speech in Britain," Australian historian Evan Smith wrote on the Wonkhe site.Smith, who published a book last year about campus free-speech rows, added that "similar claims (are) being made in the US, Australia, Canada and France."The government proposals were slammed by Jo Grady, general secretary of the University and College Union, which represents staff in higher education."It is extraordinary that in the midst of a global pandemic the government appears more interested in fighting phantom threats to free speech than taking action to contain the real and present danger which the virus poses to staff and students," she said.But a group of senior academics welcomed the proposals in a letter to The Times."In recent years, too many academics have been marginalised because they hold unorthodox views on issues like gender, Brexit and the legacy of empire," said the letter, organised by high-profile political commentator Matthew Goodwin.Speakers to have been "no-platformed" at universities include Brexit politician Nigel Farage, Canadian academic Jordan Peterson, leading feminists Julie Bindel and Selina Todd, philosopher Roger Scruton and former interior minister Amber Rudd.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-set-for-new-laws-to-protect-free-speech-on-campus-101613471767669.html
16-02-2021||World||Myanmar police file new charge against Aung San Suu Kyi||Police in Myanmar filed a new charge against ousted leader Aung San Suu Kyi, her lawyer said Tuesday, which may allow her to be held indefinitely without trial.Lawyer Khin Maung Zaw told reporters after meeting with a judge in a court in the capital, Naypyitaw, that Suu Kyi has been charged with violating Article 25 of the Natural Disaster Management Law, which has been used to prosecute people who have broken coronavirus restrictions.Suu Kyi, who was ousted in a military coup on Feb. 1, has already been charged with possessing walkie-talkies that were imported without being registered.The maximum punishment for the Covid-19 violation is three years’ imprisonment. However, the new charge may allow her to be held indefinitely without trial because a change in the Penal Code instituted by the junta last week permits detention without court permission.Ousted President Win Myint was charged under the same law when he and Suu Kyi were detained during the army's takeover. Suu Kyi held the top government post with the title of state counsellor.Groups of demonstrators turned out in Yangon and other cities on Tuesday to protest the coup and demand that Suu Kyi and members of her ousted government be freed from detention.In Yangon, police blocked off the street in front of the Central Bank, which protesters have targeted amid speculation online that the military is seeking to seize money from them.Buddhist monks demonstrated outside the U.N.'s local office.The protests are taking place in defiance of an order banning gatherings of five or more people.Around 3,000 demonstrators – mainly students – returned to the streets in Mandalay, the country's second biggest city, carrying posters of Suu Kyi and shouting for the return of democracy.Security presence was low-key around the march, with most police guarding key buildings in the city, such as state banks branches.Suu Kyi's lawyer, Khin Maung Zaw, told reporters he had not arrived at the court in time to see a videoconference the judge said had been held with Suu Kyi. The lawyer said he has not yet seen his client.The court’s videoconference was unexpected because it had only announced a hearing on Wednesday on the walkie-talkie charge.On Monday in Mandalay, soldiers and police violently broke up a gathering of more than 1,000 protesters in front of the Myanmar Economic Bank. They attacked the protesters with slingshots and sticks, and police could be seen aiming long guns into the air amid sounds that resembled gunfire. Local media reported rubber bullets were fired into the crowd and that a few people were injured.The government ordered internet access blocked on Sunday and Monday nights without giving a reason. It has in the past few weeks imposed selective and ineffective blocks on social media platforms and prepared a draft internet law that would criminalize many online activities.There is also widespread speculation that the government is installing a firewall system that can monitor or block most or all online activity.State media were acknowledging the protest movement with indirect references. The Global New Light of Myanmar newspaper reported about a meeting of the State Administration Council, the new top governing body, and quoted its chief, Senior Gen. Min Aung Hlaing, saying the authorities “are handling the ongoing problems with care.”It said the council discussed taking legal action against protesters, providing “true information” to the media, and resuming public transport, an apparent reference to strikes and slowdowns by truckers and state railway workers.The newspaper also said the council members discussed acting against a “parallel government" established by some elected lawmakers of Suu Kyi’s National League for Democracy party, who were prevented from taking their seats when the military stopped Parliament from opening its session Feb. 1.The self-styled Committee Representing the Pyidaungsu Hluttaw has 15 members who met online and said they have enough support to convene Parliament. It stakes a claim to being the sole legitimate government institution and has appealed to foreign powers and the U.N. and other multilateral institutions for recognition, with no known positive responses. Committee members believe warrants have been issued for their arrests.The military contends there was fraud in last year’s election, which Suu Kyi’s party won in a landslide, and says it will hold power for a year before holding new elections. The state election commission found no evidence to support the claims of fraud.The military says its takeover is legitimate under a 2008 constitution that was drafted under military rule and ensures the army maintains ultimate control over the country. The U.N., U.S. and other governments have urged it to return power to the elected government and release Suu Kyi and other detainees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/myanmar-police-file-new-charge-against-aung-san-suu-kyi-101613471923667.html
16-02-2021||World||Plummeting Covid-19 cases in US show a path to crushing the pandemic||Covid-19 cases and hospitalizations are dropping dramatically across the US, suggesting that measures to interrupt transmission are working, at least for now.More than 27.6 million Americans have tested positive, likely giving them some degree of immunity. A rising number -- 11.8% of the population -- has now received at least one dose of a vaccine. And data gathered from mobile phones suggest people are being more cautious day-to-day. If cases keep falling, it could buy time for the vaccination effort to take hold in the warm summer months ahead, potentially underpinning a long-sought economic recovery.Health experts, though, anticipate challenges. Inoculations need to outpace highly contagious variants from the UK and South Africa that are now in the US. And the upcoming holidays -- Spring Break, Easter and Mother’s Day included -- hold the threat of group gatherings that can swiftly boost the virus’s spread.“The history of surges is they do come down,” said Robert Wachter, chair of the department of medicine at the University of California-San Francisco. “They generally come down from some combination of changes in behavior, changes in government policy and the impact of immunity.”Infectious disease experts agree it’s way too early to call an end to the pandemic. The declines follow a surge tied to the Thanksgiving and Christmas holiday season, and infection levels remain roughly on par with trends from last fall at around 91,000 new cases confirmed daily.Rochelle Walensky, head of the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, on Sunday rang a warning bell. “We are nowhere out of the woods,” she said on CBS’s “Face the Nation,” adding that “now is the time to double down” on mitigation efforts.If those efforts are relaxed “with increasingly transmissible variants out there,” she said, “we could be in a much more difficult spot.”Walensky’s warning comes as some states, including Iowa and Montana, ease mandates on mask wearing and as the CDC emphasizes that tamping down community spread is key to safely reopening schools -- a priority of the Biden administration.Early on, the country experienced regional surges in the northeast last spring, Sun Belt states in the summer and Midwest and Western states through the fall. However, the latest surge worsened nearly everywhere in January, producing the deadliest month so far.Dead SilenceSince then, the numbers have leveled off or declined. Ali Mokdad, a professor of health metrics at the University of Washington’s Institute of Health Metrics and Evaluation, said that after the holiday surge, Americans began to behave much more cautiously.“If you look at our data, the week after Thanksgiving, the week after Christmas, it was dead silence,” Mokdad said. “People stayed at home, even cell-phone calls went down.”The country is still far short of herd immunity, the time when the country has so much protection from the dominant strain that it can no longer spread effectively. That will likely require 70% to 85% of the 330 million Americans be either vaccinated or have natural protection, experts say.At the present vaccination rate, enough doses will have been administered by Spring Break in mid-March to cover about 15% of the US population with two doses, according to the Bloomberg vaccine tracker. By Easter Sunday, that will rise to about 20% and by Mother’s Day enough shots could be given to cover close to 30% of Americans. And these estimates, based on vaccination rates over the last week, should rise substantially as more vaccine supply becomes available.UK VariantStill, the highly-contagious UK variant, known by scientists as B.1.1.7, is already tied to about 1% to 4% of US infections and is predicted to become the dominant strain by late March or April, according to Gregory Armstrong, director of the Advanced Molecular Detection Program at the CDC.That may set up a race between vaccine dispersals, which are likely to rise, and the ability of the virus to spread among Americans who aren’t yet immunized, some experts say.Armstrong emphasized in an interview that the mutation today remains at relatively low levels. Even if the UK variant -- which is believed to be 50% more transmissible -- accounted for 10% of all known infections, it would drive cases up by just 5%, according to Armstrong.That’s “small enough that we’re not even going to be able to detect it,” Armstrong said.Still, as the variant becomes more prevalent, adherence to measures like mask-wearing, social distancing and vaccination will have to be even better to prevent infections from increasing, he added.California MutationResearchers at Cedars-Sinai recently claimed to have found a US variant in California linked to the holiday season in Los Angeles. That finding has prompted new concern about the role being played to date by the new mutations.“There’s no consensus yet on what to think of that,” Armstrong said. “Across the U.S., what’s happened in the last several months, this surge that peaked in the beginning of January, a lot of people have looked at this and have not seen anything in the virus itself that would explain it.”In contrast, B.1.1.7 already made up about 80% of cases in parts of the UK by the time early concerns were raised about it, Armstrong said.The US, however, lags behind many other countries, including the UK, in its genomic surveillance, in which scientists use genetic data to track the spread of different strains of a disease.Counter PressureIn the near term, new dominant variants can be expected to exert counter pressure to the forces that are driving cases lower. Meanwhile, holiday seasons and big events that traditionally draw people together have often matched up with case surges.A stretch of new events and holidays -- from the recent Super Bowl and Chinese New Year to Mardi Gras, St. Patrick’s Day and then Passover and Easter in April -- are expected to test social distancing commitments moving forward.“Which one wins and whether we have a fourth surge is sort of the great unknown at this point,” said Wachter at the University of California-San Francisco.Last year’s Mardi Gras festival dramatically accelerated transmission in Louisiana, eventually leading to secondary localized epidemics throughout the South, according to a preprint by scholars at The Scripps Research Institute and Tulane University.Eventually, Covid-19 may reach an endemic state and become seasonal like other coronaviruses, the common cold and influenza, said Brian Fisher, a senior scholar at the Penn Center for Clinical Epidemiology and Biostatistics. The endemic state will still need to be addressed with vaccines, he said, including updated ones.“Now, how we get there is up for debate, and there likely will be some increased periods of increased transmission still ahead,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/plummeting-covid-19-cases-in-us-show-a-path-to-crushing-the-pandemic-101613470766777.html
16-02-2021||World||At least 3 dead, 10 injured in North Carolina tornado||A tornado ripped through North Carolina's Brunswick County, killing at least three people and injuring 10 others in its trail of destruction, authorities said.The tornado hit just after midnight Tuesday in southeastern Brunswick County near Grissettown in the Ocean Ridge Plantation Community, destroying homes, downing powerlines that left thousands without electricity and snapping trees in half, news outlets reported.“It’s something like I have never seen before. A lot of destruction. It’s going to be a long recovery process,” Brunswick County Sheriff John Ingram said at a press conference early Tuesday.Brunswick County Emergency Management said people were trapped in homes.Ingram said searches for missing people were underway and will increase during the day. He's asked people to avoid the area while crews work to clear the streets and search for victims.The Wilmington Fire Department tweeted that it would send teams to help find people missing after the tornado.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/at-least-3-dead-10-injured-in-north-carolina-tornado-101613471094660.html
16-02-2021||World||Germany plans to offer free rapid coronavirus tests from March 1||Germany plans to offer all citizens rapid coronavirus tests free of charge from March 1, its health minister said on Tuesday.Jens Spahn said rapid antigen tests were now sufficiently available on the market to enable local test centres and pharmacies to offer the tests for free.Earlier, German media group RedaktionsNetzwerk Deutschland (RND) reported that Spahn planned to expand the national testing strategy to enable free tests. The federal government plans to bear the costs, RND said.Spahn also wants to make tests that can be conducted at home available to everyone once they have been approved by regulators."These testing options can contribute to a safe everyday life, especially in schools and daycare centres," Spahn said on Twitter, adding the health ministry was in negotiations with test manufacturers.The number of new daily infections in Germany has been falling in recent weeks, to 3,856 on Tuesday, although this was around 480 cases higher than a week ago. The seven-day incidence was 59 cases per 100,000.German leaders agreed last week to tighten the threshold for a gradual reopening of the economy, targeting an infection rate of under 35 new cases per 100,000 people over seven days, down from 50 previously.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/germany-plans-to-offer-free-rapid-coronavirus-tests-from-march-1-101613470718297.html
16-02-2021||World||Australia to amend laws to make Google and Facebook pay||Australia’s government said on Tuesday it will amend draft laws that would make Google and Facebook pay for news to clarify that publishers would be paid in lump sums rather than per click on news article links.The legislative changes described in a government statement as “clarifications and technical amendments” follow Australian ministers’ weekend discussions with Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg and Sundar Pichai, chief executive of Alphabet Inc. and its subsidiary Google.The conservative government hopes to enact the so-called News Media Bargaining Code before the current session of Parliament ends on Feb. 25.The amendments to be introduced to Parliament on Wednesday “improve the workability of the code while retaining its overall effect,” Treasurer Josh Frydenberg and Communications Minister Paul Fletcher said in a joint statement.The opposition center-left Labor Party agreed at a meeting of lawmakers on Tuesday to support the bill, guaranteeing its passage through the Senate where the government does not hold a majority of seats. But the government might have to compromise with further Senate amendments.Australia Institute’s Center for Responsible Technology, a think-tank that supports the proposed world-first legislation, accepted the proposed changes.“On face value, the amendments keep the integrity of the media code intact,” the center’s director Peter Lewis said in a statement.Read | Microsoft backs search engines paying for news worldwideA Senate committee that scrutinized the draft legislation after it was introduced to Parliament on Dec. 9 recommended last week that the code become law without changes.Google and Facebook, which take a combined 81% of online advertising in Australia, have condemned the bill as unworkable.Google has threatened to make its search engine unavailable in Australia if the code were introduced. Facebook said it might block Australians from sharing news if the platform were forced to pay for news.The code aims to remove the digital giants’ dominant bargaining positions but creating an arbitration panel with the power to make legally binding decisions on price. The panel would usually accept either the platform’s or the publisher’s best offer, and only rarely set a price in between.That should discourage both the platforms and media businesses from making unrealistic demands.Apart from stating that arbitrated payments to publishers must be made in lump sums, the new amendments also clarify that the panel must consider costs incurred by the platforms and by news businesses.Seven West Media on Monday became the largest Australian news media business to strike a deal with Google to pay for journalism. Kerry Stokes, chairman of Seven West Media, which owns 21 publications, said the threat of the proposed code had made the deal possible.The deal was struck under Google’s own model, News Showcase. The company has reached pay deals with more than 450 publications globally since it launched News Showcase in October.Google announced two weeks ago that it had begun paying seven far smaller Australian websites under News Showcase.The Australian government said: “It is encouraging to see recent reports that news media businesses and digital platforms are now reaching commercial agreements, against the backdrop of the code being introduced into Parliament.”Google has faced pressure from authorities elsewhere to pay for news. Last month, it signed a deal with a group of French publishers, paving the way for the company to make digital copyright payments. Under the agreement, Google will negotiate individual licensing deals with newspapers, with payments based on factors such as the amount published daily and monthly internet site traffic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/australia-to-amend-laws-to-make-google-and-facebook-pay-101613464513411.html
16-02-2021||World||US-led coalition: No Americans killed in Iraq rocket attack||The contractor with the U.S.-led coalition who was killed after a barrage of rockets struck near an airport in northern Iraq was not an American national, a coalition spokesman said Tuesday, hours after the attack sparked fears of renewed hostilities in the region.Over a dozen rockets hit areas between the civilian international airport in the city of Irbil in Iraq's semi-autonomous Kurdish-run region and the nearby base hosting U.S. troops late on Monday.Initially, Iraqi security officials said three rockets had hit close to the airport. A little-known Shiite militant group calling itself Saraya Awliya al-Dam, Arabic for Guardians of Blood Brigade, claimed responsibility for Monday’s attack.An unspecified number of Iraqi and Kurdish civilians were also wounded as other rockets hit busy residential areas close to the airport.Shortly after the attack, U.S. Army Col. Wayne Marotto said a civilian contractor with the coalition was killed. On Tuesday, Marotto did not provide further details about the citizenship of the killed contractor.He also said eight civilian contractors and a U.S. military serviceman were wounded in the attack. The coalition confirmed that 107 mm rockets, a total of 14, were launched, with three impacting an airbase hosting U.S. troops.The Trump administration had said that the death of a U.S. contractor would be a red line and provoke a U.S. escalation in Iraq against Iran-backed groups. The December 2019 killing of a U.S. civilian contractor in a rocket attack in province of Kirkuk sparked a tit-for-tat fight on Iraqi soil that brought the country to the brink of a proxy war. The official position of President Joe Biden is not yet clear.U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken said the U.S. was pledging its support for investigating the attack and holding accountable those who were responsible.It was the first attack since September to target Irbil's airport. Coalition forces based close to the Baghdad airport have been a frequent target for rocket attacks.The attacks drew condemnation from senior Iraqi, U.S. and other Western officials.U.N. Special Representative Jeanine Hennis-Plasschaert deplored the deadly assault and called for national unity.“Such heinous, reckless acts pose grave threats to stability. Iraq must be shielded from (external) rivalries,” she said in comments posted on Twitter. “We call for restraint and for close Baghdad-Erbil collaboration to bring culprits to justice.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/usled-coalition-no-americans-killed-in-iraq-rocket-attack-101613468310666.html
16-02-2021||World||Snow emergency, massive power outages in US states | All you need to know||A huge snowstorm has disrupted lives in several states of the US, forcing authorities to shut down airports, schools, and even postpone the vaccination drive against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Multiple counties have declared various levels of the snow emergency, warning people against driving out on the roadways.The National Weather Service (NWS) has predicted heavy snow in the vicinity of the Canadian border in western and northern New York, with the possibility of snowfall rates of more than an inch per hour. The agency said that arctic air with frigid temperatures and dangerous wind chills will persist over the central third of the US this week.The federal weather agency said that the next major winter storm develops over the southern plains on Tuesday, spreading across the mid-south on Wednesday, before shifting northeast on a similar track to the current storm. “Record cold air over the southern Plains to the western Gulf Coast precedes this event and is expected to continue until at least Friday morning,” the NWS forecasted.Read | Power cut across Texas as snow, ice blanket southern PlainsThe bone-chilling weather featuring snow, sleet and freezing rain has led to extreme consumption of electricity, leaving utilities scrambling to meet record power demand. On Monday, the Electric Reliability Council of Texas (ERCOT) issued level three emergency notice, urging customers to limit power usage and prevent an uncontrolled system-wide outage. According to NWS, there will be significant travel disruption in both snow and ice areas and could lead to extended power outages for areas already experiencing power outages.When the power goes out in winter, the cold can be deadly. But even without power, there are still ways to warm things up. Stay #WeatherReady and learn more about winter safety: https://t.co/eh5HNSxJpY pic.twitter.com/yxhVm6NiG8What do the various levels of the snow emergency mean?Level 1: Roadways are hazardous with blowing and drifting snow. Roads may be icy. Motorists are urged to drive very cautiously. Unnecessary travel is discouraged.Level 2: Roadways are hazardous with blowing and drifting snow. Only drive if it is necessary. Contact the employer to see if they should report to work.Level 3: Ice, blowing and drifting snow has created extremely hazardous road conditions. No one should be out unless it is absolutely necessary and violators could be subject to arrest. Contact employers to see if they should report to work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/snow-emergency-massive-power-outages-in-us-states-all-you-need-to-know-101613469776237.html
16-02-2021||World||Prosecutor seeks $13,000 fine in Alexei Navalny defamation case||A Russian prosecutor on Tuesday asked a Moscow court to fine opposition figure Alexei Navalny 950,000 rubles ($13,000/10,600 euros) for allegedly defaming a 94-year-old veteran.The prosecution also asked for a three-and-a-half year suspended sentence Navalny received in 2014 to be converted into real jail time as the alleged defamation occurred during the suspended sentence.Another Moscow court earlier this month already converted the suspended sentence to jail time over Navalny allegedly violating the terms of the suspended sentence while recovering from a poisoning attack in Germany.A Moscow district court was on Tuesday hearing the final arguments in the defamation case against Navalny, who referred to the World War II veteran and others who appeared in a pro-Kremlin video as "traitors".Navalny took part in the hearing from inside a glass cage for defendants. Wearing a blue hoodie, the 44-year-old anti-graft campaigner frequently smiled and paced inside the glass cell, an AFP journalist reported.His lawyer Olga Mikhailova insisted the charges were "contrived and arbitrary".After the final arguments were delivered, the judge adjourned the hearing to February 20.Another Moscow court on Tuesday was scheduled to hear a libel case against Navalny launched by Kremlin-linked businessman Yevgeny Prigozhin.The 59-year-old businessman, nicknamed "Putin's chef" because his company Concord catered for the Kremlin, is seeking five million rubles in compensation from Navalny.Later in the day, a court will also hear Navalny's appeal against a fine of 3.3 million rubles that he was ordered to pay a food company in another defamation lawsuit.Navalny was jailed immediately after returning from Germany to Moscow in January, sparking two consecutive weekends of nationwide protests demanding his release.At least 10,000 people were detained in a police crackdown on demonstrators.On Sunday several hundred female activists formed a human chain in central Moscow in a show of support for Navalny's wife Yulia and other women caught up in the crackdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/prosecutor-seeks-13-000-fine-in-alexei-navalny-defamation-case-101613469544674.html
16-02-2021||World||US energy crisis deepens with nearly 5 million in the dark||The energy crisis crippling Texas’s power system continued to spread, with nearly 5 million people across the U.S plunged into darkness as authorities fought to avoid a total collapse of the grid.Homes and businesses from North Dakota to Texas are losing power in the middle of an unprecedented deep freeze that has broken daily temperature records in hundreds of places. The blackouts are likely to continue throughout Tuesday with no firm end in sight as the cold weather is forecast to remain through Wednesday.Officials have reported two people dead, likely from cold, according to the AP news agency. Medical centers are rushing to administer vaccines before they go bad. Flights are grounded. More than a million barrels a day of oil and 10 billion cubic feet of gas production are shut while pipelines have declared force majeure and massive refineries have halted gasoline and diesel output. U.S.President Joe Biden approved an emergency declaration for Texas, making more resources available to help.“I’ve been following energy markets and grid issues for a while, and I cannot recall an extreme weather event that impacted such a large swath of the nation in this manner — the situation is critical,” said Neil Chatterjee, a member of the U.S. Federal Energy Regulatory Commission.The cold blast is just the latest in a chain of severe weather events that have shaken power grids and upended energy markets globally from Japan to Pakistan and France in recent months. They’ve all underscored how vulnerable the world has become in the face of increasingly unpredictable weather brought on by climate change and it’s raising questions about the global push to electrify everything from transportation to heating and cooling.About 4 million homes and businesses were without power across Texas on Tuesday, based on utility outage data compiled by Poweroutage.us. Another 400,000 were down in a swathe of states stretching from Louisiana to Ohio and Virginia. About 250,000 were without power in Oregon.In Mexico, over 4.7 million homes and businesses went dark after Texas’s shortages triggered cascading failures. But about 65% of those affected in Mexico had seen their power restored by midday, according to grid operator Cenace.While temperatures are forecast to rise, the weather across the central U.S. will remain bitingly cold this week. Dallas, which was forecast to see a low of 2 degrees Fahrenheit (minus 17 degrees Celsius) late Monday, will reach a high of 29 by Wednesday, the National Weather Service said. But by late Thursday, readings will drop back into the teens.Such drastic weather conditions are rare, especially in parts of Texas. In Houston, the state’s largest city, roads were iced over and people braved long lines to refill household propane canisters. Traffic and street lights are down. Firewood is selling out. Grocery stores have run out of essentials including milk.This week’s cold front caught Texas’s highly decentralized electricity market especially by surprise. The region’s grid is designed for hot summers, not ice-cold winters. Utilities there haven’t had to carry out rolling blackouts since 2011.Extreme weather events are happening more frequently, a shift that’s attributed to the changing climate. Policy makers globally acknowledge the need to reduce emissions in almost every aspect of human life. Electrifying sectors like transport and heating to use green power is seen as vital to reaching net zero but the world’s grid infrastructure may not be ready for that shift.Burying power cables is an obvious way to protect them from severe heat or cold but it’s expensive and time-consuming and it’s not always possible. Networks need to find ways to strengthen their infrastructure to cope with wild temperatures and huge future increases in demand.Besides the human impact, the cold is wreaking havoc on the energy industry itself. U.S. oil production has dropped by anywhere from 1.5 million to 1.7 million barrels a day, helping U.S. crude prices trade above $60 a barrel for the first time in more than year. The region’s refining complex -- which produces almost half of the nation’s fuel -- is struggling to limp along without power. Some of the largest oil refineries have shut altogether, threatening to reduce supplies of gasoline and diesel across the country.Traders are drawing comparisons between the energy shortages now gripping the central U.S. and the 2000-2001 energy crisis in the western U.S., as well as a 1998 run-up in power prices in the Midwest. Just months ago, California was forced to institute its first rolling blackouts in two decades when extreme heat pushed power demand beyond capacity.Power plants with a combined capacity of more than 34 gigawatts were forced offline overnight, including nuclear reactors, coal and gas generators and wind farms, Dan Woodfin, a senior director for grid manager Electric Reliability Council of Texas said. It’s not yet clear why.Wind power generators were among the victims of the cold weather, with turbine blades rendered inoperable due to ice -- a phenomenon that reduces efficiency and can ultimately stop them from spinning. Texas estimated that more than half of its wind power capacity had come offline.At times, parts of Texas were colder than Alaska, according to the National Weather Service. In the Dallas-Fort Worth area it was 5 degrees Fahrenheit. Houston may pick up as much as 2 inches (5 centimeters) of snow overnight, along with ice and sleet, the National Weather Service said. It will get hit by another storm bringing ice and freezing rain Wednesday.“The southern plains are in a cold pattern,” said David Roth, a senior branch forecaster at the U.S. Weather Prediction Center. “It is going to take a while for them to break out of it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-energy-crisis-deepens-with-nearly-5-million-in-the-dark-101613468999754.html
16-02-2021||World||Singapore slows Covid-19 relief spending as economy recovers||Singapore will set aside a further S$11 billion ($8.31 billion)in a Covid-19 support package this year, its finance minister Heng Swee Keat said on Tuesday, extending last year's unprecedented fiscal response to the pandemic.The government had last year committed nearly S$100 billion ($75.55 billion) in support measures to cushion the impact of the coronavirus outbreak over five budgets."My new year's wish is to have one budget," Heng said at the start of his budget speech, as he announced more spending for the hardest hit sectors such as aviation and tourism.He also unveiled multi-billion dollar schemes to transform the economy and issue debt to fund large infrastructure projects, while raising petrol duties and reaffirming plans to hike its sales taxes in coming years.The overall budget deficit for financial year 2020 reached S$64.9 billion, or 13.9% of the gross domestic product, the largest since the city-state's independence. It projects an overall deficit of S$11 billion for 2021.Singapore's small and open economy is expected to expand 4% to 6% this year, bouncing back from a 5.4% contraction in 2020, with the city-state having largely brought the outbreak under control and rolling out its vaccination programme."The rationalization of broad based support schemes to be more targeted for the hardest-hit sectors is be expected in a recovery," said Selena Ling, head of treasury research and strategy at OCBC Bank.The government plans to allocate S$24 billion over the next three years for economic transformation measures such as redesigning jobs and help businesses innovate as the city-state prepares itself for a post-pandemic world."We will invest in our people – so they can bounce back and be ready for opportunities that arise; we will invest in our businesses – so they can innovate, build deep capacities and seize growth opportunities," Heng said.He said Singapore was also investing in a range of innovative schemes including a software system that can verify Covid-19 test result certificates and vaccination records, an endeavour to help to revive air travel.GREEN EFFORTSThe island-state has been trying to come up with strategies to fight the impact of climate change, including by encouraging electric vehicles."Unlike Covid-19, which was a sudden and sharp shock, climate change is a gradual and intensifying risk, year by year," Heng said.As part of those efforts, the country plans to issue green bonds for some infrastructure projects -- a move that will also help the country deepen the market liquidity for such instruments and enhance Singapore's status as a green finance hub, he added.He also announced a plan to issue debt to fund other long term infrastructure projects with a cap of S$90 billion over the next 15 years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/singapore-slows-covid-19-relief-spending-as-economy-recovers-101613468597620.html
16-02-2021||World||North Korea tried to hack Pfizer for vaccine data, Seoul says||North Korea attempted to hack Pfizer Inc. for information on its Covid-19 vaccine and treatments, South Korean lawmakers said Tuesday after a briefing by the country’s spy agency.Microsoft Corp. said in November hackers from North Korea, as well as Russia, had targeted seven prominent companies working on the Covid-19 vaccine and treatment research. Pfizer and its German partner BioNTech SE said in December that documents related to their vaccine development had been targeted in an unlawful cyber attack.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/north-korea-tried-to-hack-pfizer-for-vaccine-data-seoul-says-101613467331561.html
16-02-2021||World||South Africa plans to 'share' one million AstraZeneca doses via African Union||South Africa plans to "share" the 1 million AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine doses it received from the Serum Institute of India with other African countries via the African Union, a senior health official said on Tuesday.Anban Pillay, deputy director-general at the Department of Health, told Reuters it was not true that South Africa had asked the Serum Institute to take the 1 million doses back, as reported by Indian daily The Economic Times.Pillay added that South Africa planned to recover the money spent on the AstraZeneca doses, which arrived in the country at the start of the month, but was still finalising how to do that.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/south-africa-plans-to-share-one-million-astrazeneca-doses-via-african-union-101613467154488.html
16-02-2021||World||Myanmar junta cuts internet again to grind down anti-coup rallies||Myanmar's generals imposed a second straight overnight internet shutdown into Tuesday, ignoring international condemnation as they worked to grind down a popular uprising against their coup.In the two weeks since troops ousted Aung San Suu Kyi and took the civilian leader into custody, big urban centres and isolated village communities alike have been in open revolt.Security forces have used increasing force to quell huge nationwide street protests and a disobedience campaign encouraging civil servants to strike.Troops have fanned out around the country in recent days and fired rubber bullets to disperse one rally in Mandalay, hours before authorities again cut internet gateways."They shut down the internet because they want to do bad things," said 44-year-old Win Tun, a resident of commercial capital Yangon."We didn't sleep the whole night so we could see what would happen."The shutdown came after another day of protests in Yangon, in defiance of armoured vehicles and troop convoys stationed around key sections of the city -- although turnout was smaller than in recent days.Mandalay, the country's second largest city, saw a clash that left at least six injured after police used slingshots against protesters and fired rubber bullets into the crowd.Demonstrators retaliated by throwing bricks, according to a medic at the scene, while journalists said police had beaten them in the melee.Crowds returned to the streets of Yangon and other locations around the country on Tuesday morning."I want more people to join the protests, we don't want to be seen as weak," said Thwe Ei Sann, a university student in the city.A large crowd blocked railway tracks outside the port city of Mawlamyine to prevent a Yangon-bound train from leaving the port city.Many of the country's locomotive drivers have joined the anti-coup work boycotts and have frustrated junta efforts to restart the national railway network after a Covid-19 shutdown.Yangon residents had on the weekend used tree trunks to block police vehicles sent to bring striking rail workers back to their stations.- 'Nobody believes them' -The international community has unleashed a torrent of condemnation against the leaders of Myanmar's new army administration, which insists it took power lawfully.UN ambassador Christine Schraner Burgener spoke to junta number two Soe Win on Monday and warned him that the regime's network blackouts "undermine core democratic principles", according to a spokesman.State media reported the following day that the general had discussed "security measures" with the envoy, along with the regime's Covid-19 vaccination rollout and economic recovery plans.More than 420 people have been arrested since the coup, according to a list of confirmed detentions from the Assistance Association for Political Prisoners monitoring group.There are numerous unconfirmed reports of other arrests.Suu Kyi and her top political ally, Win Myint, have not been seen in public since they were detained in dawn raids on February 1, the day a new parliament was due to convene.Both are expected to appear in court by videolink in Naypyidaw this week.The Nobel laureate, who spent years under house arrest for opposing an earlier dictatorship, has been charged under an obscure import law for possessing unregistered walkie-talkies at her home.Her lawyer Khin Maung Zaw said he had been unable to contact his client, though officials from her National League for Democracy (NLD) party have previously said she is in good health.UN special rapporteur Tom Andrews told AFP Monday that he does not expect Suu Kyi's court hearing to be fair."There's nothing fair about the junta. This is theatre. It's just theatre. And of course, nobody believes them," Andrews said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/myanmar-junta-cuts-internet-again-to-grind-down-anti-coup-rallies-101613465696687.html
16-02-2021||World||Myanmar protests resume after second night of internet shutdown||Peaceful demonstrations against Myanmar’s military takeover resumed Tuesday, following violence against protesters a day earlier by security forces and after internet access was blocked for a second straight night.Groups of demonstrators turned out early in Yangon and other cities to protest the Feb. 1 coup and demand that the nation’s elected leader, Aung San Suu Kyi, and members of her ousted government be freed from detention.In Yangon, police blocked off the street in front of the Central Bank, which protesters have targeted amid speculation online that the military is seeking to seize money from them.Buddhist monks demonstrated outside the U.N.'s local office.The protests are taking place in defiance of an order banning gatherings of five or more people.Around 3,000 demonstrators – mainly students – returned to the streets in Mandalay, the country's second biggest city, carrying posters of Suu Kyi and shouting for the return of democracy.Security presence was low-key around the march, with most police guarding key buildings in the city, such as state banks branches.On Monday in Mandalay, soldiers and police violently broke up a gathering of more than 1,000 protesters in front of the Myanmar Economic Bank. They attacked the protesters with slingshots and sticks, and police could be seen aiming long guns into the air amid sounds that resembled gunfire. Local media reported rubber bullets were fired into the crowd and that a few people were injured.No reason has been announced for why the government ordered internet access blocked on Sunday and Monday nights. It has in the past few weeks imposed selective and ineffective blocks on social media platforms and prepared a draft internet law that would criminalize many online activities.There is also widespread speculation that the government is installing a firewall system that can monitor or block most or all online activity.State media were acknowledging the protest movement with indirect references. The Global New Light of Myanmar newspaper reported about a meeting of the State Administration Council, the new top governing body, and quoted its chief, Senior Gen. Min Aung Hlaing, saying the authorities “are handling the ongoing problems with care.”It said the council discussed taking legal action against protesters, providing “true information” to the media, and resuming public transport, an apparent reference to strikes and slowdowns by truckers and state railway workers.The newspaper also said the council members discussed acting against a “parallel government" established by some elected lawmakers of Suu Kyi’s National League for Democracy party, who were prevented from taking their seats when the military stopped Parliament from opening its session Feb. 1.The self-styled Committee Representing the Pyidaungsu Hluttaw has 15 members who met online and said they have enough support to convene Parliament. It stakes a claim to being the sole legitimate government institution and has appealed to foreign powers and the U.N. and other multilateral institutions for recognition, with no known positive responses. Committee members believe warrants have been issued for their arrests.Suu Kyi is under house arrest on a minor charge of possessing unregistered imported walkie-talkies. It is likely that she will appear in court by videoconference on Wednesday, according to Khin Maung Zaw, a lawyer asked by Suu Kyi’s party to represent her.The military contends there was fraud in last year’s election, which Suu Kyi’s party won in a landslide, and says it will hold power for a year before holding new elections. The state election commission found no evidence to support the claims of fraud.The military says its takeover is legitimate under a 2008 constitution that was drafted under military rule and ensures the army maintains ultimate control over the country. The U.N., U.S. and other governments have urged it to return power to the elected government and release Suu Kyi and other detainees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/myanmar-protests-resume-after-second-night-of-internet-shutdown-101613465737151.html
16-02-2021||World||Covid-19: South Africa's health care workers eager for first vaccines||After testing thousands of people for coronavirus, South African nurse Asnath Masango says she can't wait to get vaccinated.“So many people, I test them and within days they have passed away,” said Masango. “I want protection.”C.J. Umunnakwe, a virologist running a lab that has performed more than 40,000 virus tests, says he “wholeheartedly believes in vaccinations. Vaccines save lives.” He plans to talk to those who may be skeptical.Health care workers at the Ndlovu Care Group in rural northeastern South Africa are eagerly awaiting the first jabs of the Johnson & Johnson vaccine, which will be given out to medical staff starting this week.That's despite the fact that the one-shot Johnson & Johnson vaccine — unlike the two-shot Pfizer-BioNTech, Moderna and Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccines — has not been approved for general use anywhere in the world.No matter, say many South African health workers who are enthusiastic about getting the J&J jab, which comes amid a huge shift in the government's vaccination strategy.South Africa, with nearly 1.5 million confirmed cases of Covid-19 including more than 47,000 deaths, has had 41% of Africa's reported cases.Last week South Africa controversially decided to drop the AstraZeneca vaccine — which had been already purchased, delivered and approved in the country -- from the first phase in which 1.25 million health care workers will be vaccinated.The last-minute decision was made after a small test showed the AstraZeneca vaccine offered minimal protection against mild to moderate cases of the variant dominant in South Africa. Although preliminary and not peer-reviewed, the results raised serious questions about how effective the AstraZeneca vaccine would be specifically in South Africa, even though the vaccine has been approved in over 50 other countries around the world.Health officials decided to change to the Johnson & Johnson vaccine, which tests show is safe and effective against the variant here. A one-shot vaccine is also easier for many countries to implement.“The switch has emboldened the skeptics, who say the vaccines have problems,” Umunnakwe said of those who alleged that big pharmaceutical firms are using Africans as guinea pigs.“I am telling people that the change shows that decisions are being made transparently, that it was driven by science,” he said. “It is proof that we are putting the public as first priority.”South Africa has purchased 9 million doses of the Johnson & Johnson vaccine and 80,000 will be delivered this week to kick off the inoculation campaign, the president says. South Africa’s regulatory body has approved the J&J shot for testing purposes. Until that vaccine receives full approval, it will be given as part of an “implemented study,” officials say.At the Ndlovu Care Group, in the small town of Elandsdoorn in Limpopo province, 200 kilometers (124 miles) north of Johannesburg, medical workers have seen the devastation wrought by the virus up close. When Covid-19 hit, the center quickly ramped up its laboratory to do PCR tests.The protective gear that cloaks Masango cannot hide her empathy as she welcomes people who come for a Covid-19 test.“I'm so skilled at this, you won't even feel it!” she said to a visitor.Masango, 56, said she has tested more people than she can count.“What depresses me the most is when I must tell someone that they are positive,” she said. “They are so frightened ... Grandparents die. Breadwinners die. How will their children get food?”The prospect of getting vaccinated excites her.“Yo!” she says, eyes widening. “I want that vaccine!”The Ndlovu Care Group has done more than 40,000 tests in the rural community, including workers at large mines and commercial farms. More than 20,000 of those tests were in January alone, when South Africa was hit by a dramatic resurgence of the disease, driven by the more contagious variant that is now dominant.The Ndlovu laboratory can carry out the PCR virus tests and get the results within hours. In the January resurgence, it was averaging about 1,600 tests per day.“We were busy, very busy,” said Umunnakwe, a 35-year-old virologist who came to the center to study HIV and is now studying coronavirus too. He is keenly watching the genomic sequencing in South Africa that identified the new variant.“By doing sequencing, we don't just see what is present in the virus today, we can detect what may happen in the future,” said Umunnakwe, adding that he hoped Ndlovu will get the equipment to do sequencing, rare for a rural health center.Most South Africans are looking forward to getting vaccinated. An impressive 67% of adults said they would definitely or probably take a vaccine, according to a survey by the University of Johannesburg and the Human Sciences Research Council.Dr. Rebone Maboa, who is running a study of the J&J vaccine at the Ndlovu center, was excited to hear that it will be used in South Africa.“I'm actually ecstatic!” said Maboa. “I think it's actually a better vaccine for us here in South Africa, looking at our variant.”The 42-year-old doctor said 602 people in the community are participating in the test and half were injected with the J&J vaccine in November. She also said her recent recovery from Covid-19 makes her a stronger advocate for getting vaccinated.“Lack of knowledge makes people much, much more anxious," said Maboa. "Those who get the vaccine will be role models, vaccine ambassadors who will encourage others.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-south-africa-s-health-care-workers-eager-for-first-vaccines-101613465404107.html
16-02-2021||World||Australian PM apologises to ex-staffer alleging rape in country's parliament||Australia’s Prime Minister Scott Morrison on Tuesday apologized to a former government staffer who alleged she was raped by a colleague in a minister’s office two years ago.The former staffer Brittany Higgins alleged in a television interview on Monday that a colleague had raped her in the office of the then-Defense Industry Minister Linda Reynolds weeks before the 2019 election and that she did not receive the support she needed from bosses or other colleagues.The man she accused, who has not been named, was fired for a security breach in taking Higgins into the minister’s office and leaving her there on a couch after a night of heavy drinking.Higgins, who was Reynolds’ media adviser, said she decided not to pursue a police complaint at the time because she felt pressure that doing so would affect her employment.She resigned in January this year and said she plans to reinstate her police complaint.“I think that resigning is the only thing I can personally do to say that I don’t think anyone else should go through what I went through,” Higgins told Network Ten.Morrison said Reynolds should not have questioned Higgins about her accusation in the same office where Higgins alleged the rape took place.“That should not have happened, and I do apologize,” Morrison told reporters.Reynolds, who is now defense minister, also apologized for raising the matter with Higgins in her office, adding that the minister had not done enough to support the then 24-year-old staffer.“I deeply, deeply regret conducting the meeting in my office where the alleged incident occurred,” Reynolds said.Reynolds told the Senate she never gave Higgins a choice between her job and making a police complaint.Morrison described Higgins’ allegation as a wake-up call that must drive change within Parliament House.“It shatters me that still, in this day and age, a young woman can find herself in the vulnerable situation that she was in, not her doing,” Morrison said.“We have to do more, whether it’s in this workplace or any other workplace in the country, to ensure people can work safely in their place and be at their best and do what they went into that job to do,” he added.Morrison appointed government lawmaker Celia Hammond to work with political parties to investigate Parliament House culture, improve workplace standards and to protect staff.An automatic reporting obligation to department officials will be established for such allegation, Morrison said.Morrison said he first heard of Higgins’ allegation on Monday and his office only learned about it on Friday last week.The opposition questioned how Morrison could continue to have confidence in Reynolds since she hadn’t told him of the alleged rape.“My understanding is the minister acted in good faith toward Brittany and sought to support Brittany,” Morrison replied.Higgins issued a media statement on Tuesday thanking Morrison for his apology.“The prime minister’s announcement of an investigation into the culture in Parliament House is a welcomed first step, though it is long overdue,” Higgins said.“It should not have taken my story, or the story of other victim-survivors to air on national television for the prime minister — or any Member of Parliament — to take action on workplace sexual harassment, assault or bullying,” she added.Parliament House needed an independent reporting mechanism for staff so that they could confidently and safely make complaints, Higgins said.The Associated Press does not usually identify alleged victims of sexual assault, but Higgins has chosen to identify herself in the media.Opinion polls pointed to Morrison’s conservative coalition government losing power at the 2019 election which took place weeks after the alleged rape. But the government achieved a narrow victory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/australian-pm-apologises-to-ex-staffer-alleging-rape-in-country-s-parliament-101613464502473.html
16-02-2021||World||Avijit Roy murder trial: Five Islamists sentenced to death in Bangladesh||A court in Bangladesh sentenced to death five members of an Islamist militant group on Tuesday for killing a US blogger critical of religious extremism six years ago.Avijit Roy, a US citizen of Bangladeshi origin, was hacked to death by machete-wielding assailants in February 2015 while returning home with his wife from a Dhaka book fair. His wife and fellow blogger Rafida Ahmed suffered head injuries and lost a finger.Also Read: Cops stood close by when Avijit was attacked: Slain blogger's widow“Charges against them were proved beyond any doubt. The court gave them the highest punishment,” public prosecutor Golam Sarwar Khan said after the verdict, amid tight security at the Special Anti-Terrorism Tribunal in the capital, Dhaka.Also Read| Avijit Roy murder: The fallout of Bangladesh's broken politicsThe court also jailed one man for life in the attack, Khan said.He said the six men convicted on Tuesday belong to the al Qaeda-inspired domestic militant group Ansar Ullah Bangla Team, which police say was behind the murders of more than a dozen secular activists and bloggers.Also Read: Al Qaeda branch claims murder of Bangladesh-born US bloggerSyed Ziaul Haq, a sacked army major believed to be the leader of the group and who masterminded the killing, and one other member of the group were tried in absentia and received death sentences, Khan said.Muslim-majority Bangladesh saw a string of deadly attacks between 2013 and 2016 targeting bloggers, secular activists and religious minorities, claimed by Islamic State or al Qaeda-aligned groups.The most serious attack came in July 2016, when gunmen stormed a cafe in the diplomatic quarter of Dhaka and killed 22 people, most of them foreigners.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/avijit-roy-murder-trial-five-islamists-sentenced-to-death-in-bangladesh-101613460840691.html
16-02-2021||World||China aims to hurt US by curbing export of critical rare-earth minerals: Report||China is exploring whether it can hurt US defense contractors by limiting supplies of rare-earth minerals that are critical to the industry, the Financial Times reported.Industry executives said government officials had asked them how badly companies in the US and Europe would be affected if China restricted rare-earth exports during a bilateral dispute, the FT reported, citing people it didn’t identify involved in the consultation.The move throws the spotlight back on the group of elements that are used in everything from smartphones to fighter jets, and have previously been a focus in the deteriorating trade relationship between China and the US. The Asian country controls most of the world’s mined output, with an even tighter hold of the processing industry, leaving American industries with few avenues to immediately secure short-term supply if curbs were to be put in place.China’s Foreign Ministry didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment on a public holiday, while calls to the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology went unanswered. The government last month issued draft guidelines for the sector, with proposals including firms abiding by export regulations and the possibility that the nation restrict or suspend exploration and processing of rare earths to preserve natural resources and protect the environment.The specter of export curbs arose in 2019 amid a deepening trade war. China accounts for 80% of rare-earth imports into the US, and Beijing had prepared a plan to restrict shipments as a way to target Washington. While those restrictions never eventuated, it pushed the American government to seek out ways to cut their reliance on a single source of supply.Donald Trump last year signed an executive order aimed at expanding domestic output of rare-earth minerals, a year after the Department of Defense was ordered to spur the production of magnets. The US also awarded Lynas Rare Earths Ltd., the biggest producer outside China, a contract to boost processing capabilities.Trump’s administration had taken a wide range of actions to thwart China’s efforts to dominate numerous high-tech industries, with President Joe Biden still yet to change many of those policies. Biden, in his first conversation as president with Chinese leader Xi Jinping, spoke of his concern about Beijing’s “coercive and unfair economic practices” as well as human rights abuses in the Xinjiang region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-aims-to-hurt-us-by-curbing-export-of-critical-rare-earth-minerals-report-101613460357239.html
16-02-2021||World||Australia: Seven West Media becomes first news outlet to strike deal with Google||Australia's Seven West Media Ltd became the country's first major news outlet to strike a licensing deal with Google, as the government pushes ahead with a law that would force the internet giant to pay media companies for content.At an earnings announcement on Monday, Seven, which owns a free-to-air television network and the main metro newspaper in the city of Perth, said it would supply content for Google's News Showcase platform. It did not disclose terms.The deal shows Seven splitting from rivals News Corp and Nine Entertainment Co Holdings Ltd which have failed to reach agreements with Google and instead backed laws, set to be passed this week, where the government sets the online giant's content fees in the absence of a private deal.So far in Australia, only specialist online publishers and one regional newspaper have struck deals to receive payment for their content appearing on the new Google platform which went live in the country this month. Outside Australia, Reuters is among news outlets with similar Google deals."The negotiations with Google recognise the value of quality and original journalism throughout the country and, in particular, in regional areas," said Seven West Chairman Kerry Stokes in a statement.Google's Australia CEO Mel Silva said the US company was "proud to support original, trusted, and quality journalism" by featuring Seven on its platform.Last month, Silva told a parliamentary hearing Google would pull its search engine from Australia if the so-called News Media Bargaining Code became law. A Google representative declined to comment on the effect of the Seven deal.Hours before Seven revealed its plans, Treasurer Josh Frydenberg told the Australian Broadcasting Corp he still planned to introduce the laws, but added: "I think we're very close to some significant commercial deals and, in doing so, that will the transform the domestic media landscape".The way the law is worded, the government only imposes a negotiator to set fees if the media company and Google can't come to an arrangement privately.A Seven spokesman told Reuters the company still supported the law.A Nine spokeswoman declined comment, while a News Corp representative in Australia was not immediately available for comment."The signs are that the Australian government and Google are close to a compromise," said Paul Budde, an independent media and telecommunications industry analyst."This allows the government to claim victory, while the damage to Google will be limited. Publishers will in one way or another be paid for news."Seven separately reported a 26.5% jump in underlying profit for the six months to end-December, helped by strong performance in its advertising market.Seven shares jumped as much as 10.6% to their highest level since May 31, 2019 in early trade, while the broader market was up 0.9%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/australia-seven-west-media-becomes-first-news-outlet-to-strike-deal-with-google-101613460061343.html
16-02-2021||World||India expresses concerns over threat to citizens in Canada||India’s High Commission in Ottawa has raised the issue of safety of Indian citizens, including international students, with Canadian authorities after multiple reports of members of the Indo-Canadian community being threatened and intimidated for actions perceived to be pro-India or critical of the ongoing protests against the contentious farm laws passed by the Indian Parliament.In an outreach message to the diaspora in Canada, India’s High Commissioner to Ottawa Ajay Bisaria wrote: “We are also concerned at reports that Indian citizen and friends of India who have expressed their views in support of the farm reforms in India have been targeted and subjected to intimidation, threats of violence and calls to boycott or disrupt their business.”Reports of threats, including violence and rape, against Indo-Canadians were received from the Greater Toronto Area, Metro Vancouver, Calgary and Vancouver. This development, which has created a climate of fear within the larger community, was first reported by the Hindustan Times. 28 Indo-Canadian organisations have raised the issue with Canada’s public safety and emergency preparedness minister Bill Blair in a letter, but have yet to receive a response from him or his office, HT had reported.Bisaria told members of the community that “in the event that any Indian national is subjected to any such threats of violence or intimidation, they should report the matter, with all details to the local police, and also bring it to our immediate attention”.He also asserted “that a flood of misinformation, blatant lies and distortions being circulated about some recent developments in India” and the “increase in rhetoric promoting violence in India” is “aimed at defaming and harming the image of India and Indians as well as to sow distrust and promote hatred between different communities of Indian origin in Canada”.Several prominent Canadian politicians have raised the matter of the protests against farm laws in India, including Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, much to the chagrin of the Indian Government.The Poetic Justice Foundation, the group allegedly responsible for creating the infamous toolkit being investigated by Indian law enforcement, is based in Vancouver and one of its founders, Mo Dhaliwal, participated in a blockade of the Indian Consulate in Vancouver on Republic Day. According to an unverified video, Dhaliwal also made a pro-Khalistan speech outside the premises.Bisaria called on the diaspora to “encourage Indian citizens, friends of India and the Canadian public to remain vigilant against such attempts and not be swayed by false narratives and sophistry”.“The Indian diaspora in Canada is a reflection of the diversity and plurality of India. For the continued welfare of the community, it is essential to maintain unity and amity between the different communities. The community must come together and work as one for this cause and not be influenced by forces that promote hatred and seek to divide it. All voices of the community should be equally respected and valued,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/india-expresses-concerns-over-threat-to-citizens-in-canada-101613457355571.html
16-02-2021||World||9/11-type commission to probe US Capitol storming proposed by Nancy Pelosi||US House of Representatives Speaker Nancy Pelosi has proposed a 9/11-type independent commission to investigate the storming of the Capitol by supporters of former president Donald Trump on January 6, which is seen as one of the darkest days in the history of America’s democracy.Pelosi said this in a Dear Colleague letter on Monday, less than 50 hours after the Senate -- the upper chamber of US Congress -- acquitted Trump following an impeachment trial on charges of inciting his supporters to storm the Capitol hill, putting at risk the lives of hundreds of lawmakers.“It is clear from his findings and from the impeachment trial that we must get to the truth of how this happened,” she said in a letter to her Democratic colleagues in the House of Representatives.“To protect our security, our security, our security, our next step will be to establish an outside, independent 9/11-type Commission to ‘investigate and report on the facts and causes relating to the January 6, 2021 domestic terrorist attack upon the United States Capitol Complex… and relating to the interference with the peaceful transfer of power, including facts and causes relating to the preparedness and response of the United States Capitol Police and other Federal, State, and local law enforcement in the National Capitol Region,” Pelosi wrote.Her letter follows similar demands being made by lawmakers on both sides of the aisle. Three Republican congressmen -- Rodney Davis, John Katko and James Comer -- have proposed a bill that would create a bipartisan commission.Pelosi, a top Democrat, further said in the letter: “As we prepare for the Commission, it is also clear from General Honoré’s interim reporting that we must put forth a supplemental appropriation to provide for the safety of members and the security of the Capitol,” she said as the country observed President’s Day, celebrating the birthdays of two greatest American presidents -- George Washington and Abraham Lincoln.Indian-American Congressman Raja Krishnamoorthi, in a tweet supporting Pelosi, said: “One of the darkest days in the history of our democracy deserves to be examined and investigated in great detail. We cannot dismiss and forget the violence that day or how close our republic came to being overthrown”.On February 13, the US Senate acquitted Trump in his second impeachment trial in just over a year, after the Democrats failed once again to muster enough votes to convict the former president on a charge of inciting the deadly insurrection at the Capitol on January 6.The Senate voted 57-43 on Saturday to convict Trump on a single impeachment count – incitement of insurrection. But that majority of all 50 Democrats in the upper chamber of the US Congress, joined by seven Republicans, fell 10 votes short of the 67 needed for a conviction, two-thirds of the 100-member Senate.The 74-year-old Republican former president was accused of inciting riots in the Capitol which left five people, including a police officer, dead.Trump is the first president in US history to be impeached by the House of Representatives twice, and the first to be tried for impeachment after leaving office.The National Commission on Terrorist Attacks Upon the United States, also known as the 9/11 Commission, was a bipartisan-panel established to create a full and complete account of the circumstances surrounding the September 11 attacks, including preparedness for and the immediate response to the attacks.The commission -- chaired by five Republicans and five Democrats and convened by Congress as part of a legislation signed by former president George W Bush -- interviewed over 1,200 people in 10 countries and concluded that the FBI and CIA failed to adequately assess the terrorist threats, among other things.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/911type-commission-to-probe-us-capitol-storming-proposed-by-nancy-pelosi-101613455603878.html
16-02-2021||World||Veteran Hong Kong activists on trial over huge democracy rally||Veteran Hong Kong activists went on trial Tuesday for organising one of the biggest democracy protests to engulf the city in 2019, part of a sweeping crackdown targeting Beijing's critics over the last 18 months.The nine defendants include some of the city's most prominent pro-democracy campaigners, many of whom are staunch nonviolence advocates who have spent decades campaigning in vain for universal suffrage.Among them are Martin Lee, an 82-year-old barrister who was once chosen by Beijing to help write Hong Kong's mini-constitution, and Margaret Ng, a 73-year-old barrister and former opposition lawmaker.Media tycoon Jimmy Lai, currently in custody after his arrest under Beijing's new national security law, is also among those on trial.Others are leading members of the Civil Human Rights Front, the coalition that organised a series of huge rallies throughout 2019.They each face up to five years in jail if convicted.As they entered court on Tuesday, some of the activists flashed a three-finger salute, a symbol now used across Asia to protest authoritarianism.The group is being prosecuted for organising an unauthorised assembly on August 18, 2019 -- one of the biggest to convulse Hong Kong that year as people took to the streets for seven straight months calling for democracy and greater police accountability.Organisers estimated 1.7 million people turned out -- almost one in four Hong Kong residents -- though that number was difficult to independently verify.Those involved described it as the second-largest protest of 2019, and it was undoubtedly one of the biggest rallies that year, with demonstrators marching peacefully for hours under a sea of umbrellas and thundery skies.Protests in Hong Kong can only go ahead with the permission of authorities, though rights groups have long criticised the use of unauthorised assembly prosecutions.Since 2019, protests have been all but outlawed with authorities either refusing permission on security grounds or later because of the pandemic.The rallies in 2019 often descended into clashes between riot police and a knot of hardcore participants, and posed the most concerted challenge to China's rule since the former British colony's 1997 handover.The movement eventually fizzled out under the combined weight of exhaustion, some 10,000 arrests and the emergence of the coronavirus pandemic.Authorities have since unleashed a broad crackdown and Beijing has imposed a new security law which criminalises much dissent.China and Hong Kong's leaders say the law is needed to restore stability to the finance hub.Critics counter that Beijing has shredded the liberties and autonomy it promised Hong Kong could maintain after the handover.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/veteran-hong-kong-activists-on-trial-over-huge-democracy-rally-101613450005608.html
16-02-2021||World||S. Korea strikes Covid-19 vaccine deal, 23 mn to be inoculated||South Korea has arranged to buy coronavirus vaccines for 23 million more people, its prime minister said on Tuesday, a day after authorities decided to scale back initial vaccination plans, citing delays and efficacy concerns.Preparing for an inoculation drive that is set to begin on Feb.26, South Korea had already secured supply agreements for enough doses for 56 million, though it has a population of 52 million.But the vaccination programme is set to get off to a slower start, as some of the vaccines acquired have not yet proven sufficiently effective against new strains of COVID-19, while some manufacturers may not be able to deliver on time due to production problems.To overcome those issues, South Korea has struck additional deals with Novavax Inc for enough vaccines to cover 20 million people and with Pfizer to cover a further 3 million, Prime Minister Chung Sye-kyun said, making the total supply enough to cover 79 million people."The government has been working to bring in sufficient early supplies, but there is growing uncertainty over our plan for the first half due to production issues with global drugmakers and international competition to adopt more vaccines," he told a televised meeting.South Korea aims to begin by inoculating healthcare workers and the elderly. But authorities said on Monday they would not use AstraZeneca vaccines on people aged 65 and older, reversing an earlier decision, because of insufficient efficacy data.Aside from AstraZeneca, South Korea has also reached agreements with COVAX, Pfizer/BioNTech, Moderna, and Johnson & Johnson for the supply of their vaccines.The government has cut its first-quarter vaccination target from 1.3 million to less than 760,000.US-based Novavax issued a statement that it has signed a license agreement with South Korea manufacturer SK Bioscience to produce 40 million doses of its vaccines for South Korea and significantly boost production capacity. Two doses of the Novavax vaccine are needed per person.SK Bioscience said it has exclusive rights to manufacture and sell the vaccine in South Korea and also secured rights to sell it in several Southeast Asian countries.The director of the Korea Disease Control and Prevention Agency (KDCA), Jeong Eun-kyeong, said the reduced first-quarter target was not expected to affect the goal of achieving "herd immunity" by November, though some independent health experts doubt whether it can be done so fast.The additional Pfizer deal for 6 million doses, with two needed per person, was intended to help meet that goal, and the U.S. drugmaker agreed to move up the shipment date for another 1 million doses to the second quarter, Chung said.The KDCA reported 457 additional coronavirus cases as of midnight on Monday, as the daily tally rebounds to the 400s in four days amid increased testing following last week's Lunar New Year holidays.South Korea's total infections rose to 84,325 with 1,534 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/s-korea-strikes-covid-19-vaccine-deal-23-mn-to-be-inoculated-101613453542912.html
16-02-2021||World||French parliament to vote on anti-extremism bill||The French parliament on Tuesday votes on a bill to battle Islamist extremism, which the state argues is needed to bolster the secular system but critics say breaches religious freedom.With an eye on 2022 elections, President Emmanuel Macron has championed the bill which seeks to tighten rules on issues ranging from religious teaching, online hate to polygamy.It has been debated in a highly charged atmosphere in France after three attacks late last year by extremists including the beheading in October of teacher Samuel Paty, who had shown his pupils cartoons of the Prophet Mohammed.The law is dubbed the anti-separatism bill as ministers fear Islamists are creating communities that reject France's secular identity and laws, as well as its values such as equality between the sexes.France, home to Europe's largest Muslim community, is still shaken by the succession of massacres committed by Islamist militants from January 2015 that left hundreds dead.The National Assembly lower house is expected to vote on the legislation in the afternoon after a total of 135 hours of debates that saw some 313 amendments adopted.Macron's ruling party has a large working majority, meaning the legislation is expected to pass, but the upper house Senate will also examine the draft legislation in the coming months and could amend it.- 'Hostile ideology' -Interior Minister Gerald Darmanin said after the final debate on Saturday that the bill "provides concrete responses to... the development of radical Islam, an ideology hostile to the principles and values on which the Republic is founded."Paty's killing prompted the inclusion of the specific crimes of online hate speech and divulging personal information on the internet that could be used to harm a public-sector worker.Paty was the subject of an online hate campaign started by a parent of a child at his school who objected to him showing the prophet cartoons.Under the legislation, doctors will also be fined or jailed if they perform a virginity test on girls, while it also extends sanctions on polygamy.The state will also have far greater powers to close down places of worship that are found to air "theories or ideas" that "provoke hate or violence towards a person or people."One of the most contentious articles concerns home schooling, with the rules considerably sharpened to require official authorisation on grounds of health or handicap for children to learn at home.But for the right-wing opposition The Republicans (LR) the bill does not go far enough, notably by not restricting the wearing of the Islamic veil in spaces like universities."It's a small law on a big subject," said LR MP Julien Ravier. The right, which has the majority in the Senate, may try to toughen it further when it enters the upper house.Nearly 200 people demonstrated in Paris on Sunday against the bill accusing it of "reinforcing discrimination against Muslims".A US envoy on religious freedom last year criticised the bill as "heavy-handed" and it has sparked unusually critical coverage in English-language media, even prompting Macron to write personally to the Financial Times to defend it.Analysts have said Macron, who came to power in 2017 as a centrist reformer, has noticeably tacked to the right over the last months as he scents that his 2022 presidential reelection battle will come down to a run-off duel with far right National Rally (RN) leader Marine Le Pen.Darmanin visibly shocked Le Pen herself and surprised even his own party colleagues by accusing Le Pen of "softness" on Islam during a debate on Thursday night.Le Pen, who has proposed banning the veil in all public places in France, said at the debate she was "disappointed" by the scope of the bill.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/french-parliament-to-vote-on-anti-extremism-bill-101613450052299.html
16-02-2021||World||Right-wing friendly Parler announces re-launch||The right-wing friendly social network Parler, which was forced offline following the January 6 attack on the U.S. Capitol by supporters of then-President Donald Trump, says it is re-launching.The Twitter alternative has been struggling to return online since Amazon stripped it of web-hosting service on January 11 over its unwillingness to remove posts inciting violence. Google and Apple removed Parler’s app from their online stores for the same reason.Parler said in an emailed statement Monday that it would be led by an interim CEO, Mark Meckler of the Tea Party Patriots movement. It said the service would be brought back online for current users this week with new users being able to sign up next week — and would not be reliant on “Big Tech.”The site's homepage, however, was a single, static page whose lead post reminded viewers of “technical difficulties.” But it was possible to log in via a different variation of that URL. The iPhone app, however, did not work, yielding a “networking error” when an Associated Press reporter tried it. Among new posters was Fox News personality Sean Hannity.Guidelines accessible on the site, dated Feb. 14, said Parler would use technology and human review to remove “threatening or inciting content." They said a “community jury” headed by a Parler employee would hear appeals.Parler was being hosted by a Los Angeles cloud services company, SkySilk. Ron Guilmette, a California-based internet researcher and activist, said SkySilk appeared to be a small outfit and that it was not clear to him whether it could provide adequate security for the site. In particular, Guilmette cited the need for robust defense against denial-of-service attacks, which flood a site with data traffic to make it inaccessible. Such attacks are a threat to any major internet site — especially if their content is at all controversial.SkySilk did not respond to questions about the level of support the company is providing.Its CEO, Kevin Matossian, said in a statement that the company “does not advocate nor condone hate, rather it advocates the right to private judgment and rejects the role of being the judge, jury and executioner. Unfortunately, too many of our fellow technology providers seem to differ in their position on this subject.”Mattossian added that his company applauded Parler's new community guidelines.For a time after Amazon dropped it, Parler received denial-of-service protection from a Russian-based outfit called DDoS-Guard. That ended following revelations that DDoS-Guard had provided services to shady operations, including online forums popular with credit card thieves.In a lawsuit seeking to force Amazon to restore its service, Parler's management claimed that Amazon aimed to deny Trump "a platform on any large social-media service.” That followed Twitter's decision to permanently ban the former president from its service and similar indefinite bans by Facebook and Instagram.Parler’s previous CEO, John Matze, says he was fired on Jan. 29 by the Parler board, which is controlled by conservative donor Rebekah Mercer. At the time, Matze told The New York Times that he'd told Mercer that Parler needed to consider preventing domestic terrorists, white supremacists and followers of QAnon, a baseless conspiracy theory, from posting on the platform.The 2 1/2-year-old social media site claims 20 million users. Trump never established an account there, although Buzzfeed reported that he considered buying a stake in Parler while he was president.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/rightwing-friendly-parler-announces-relaunch-101613447889324.html
16-02-2021||World||Pronita Gupta named special assistant to President Biden for Labor and Workers||Indian-American Pronita Gupta has been named US President Joe Biden's Special Assistant for Labor and Workers on the Domestic Policy Council, a media release has said.Gupta, who was until recently the Director of Job Quality Team at the Center for Law and Social Policy (CLASP), brings a deep commitment and dedication to advocating policies that improve job quality for workers, strengthen worker protection, and increase economic security for working families with low incomes, the release said."She is an extraordinary leader who places people with low incomes and people of color at the core of her work and powerfully combines passion and vision with deep, detailed, practical knowledge. I cannot think of anyone who could better serve President Biden and the nation in advancing this crucial agenda," said Olivia Golden, executive director for the Center for Law and Social Policy (CLASP).In her nearly four years as CLASP’s Director of the Job Quality team, Pronita was a leader nationally and in the states, advancing policies that improved the jobs of workers with low wages, playing an integral role in the Work Family Strategy Council and partnering with colleagues around the country, Golden said."At CLASP, she assembled a tremendously effective team that played a crucial role in building state and national momentum for paid family and medical leave and paid sick days, taking on everything from the details of financing and implementing effective programs to the broad vision, through testimony, speeches, detailed technical assistance, and powerful research reports and commentaries,” Golden said.During the second term of the Obama Administration, Gupta was Deputy Director, Women's Bureau at the US Department of Labor from April 2014 to January 2017.In that role, she worked to advance and improve standards, practices, and opportunities for women in the labour force. She has also previously served as senior director of programs for the Women Donors Network (WDN) as well as research director for Asian Americans/Pacific Islanders in Philanthropy.Gupta has extensive experience in community and labor organising. She served as research director for SCOPE/AGENDA in Los Angeles, where she helped develop their healthcare jobs campaign, and as research director for the Living Wage Campaign at the LA Alliance for a New Economy (LAANE).Additionally, Gupta served as executive director of Institute for Southern Studies and legislative director for the US Student Association. She holds an MPA from Columbia University and a BA in Government from Clark University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pronita-gupta-named-special-assistant-to-president-biden-for-labor-and-workers-101613446654094.html
16-02-2021||World||Myanmar shuts down internet again as protest crackdown continues||Myanmar’s junta shut down the internet for a second straight night, part of efforts to stem nationwide protests after it seized power from civilian leaders on Feb. 1.The blackout came shortly after state-run MRTV said army chief Min Aung Hlaing enacted a new law telecommunications law, with details set to be announced on Tuesday. Authorities have sought to disrupt telephone and internet access to prevent demonstrators from organizing, while also granting themselves new powers to intercept communications and detain dissidents.Protests continued on Monday in defiance of a ban on public gatherings imposed after the coup. The junta is scheduled to give its first press briefing since it took power later on Tuesday, while US Ambassador to Myanmar Thomas Vajda plans to host a virtual town hall for US citizens.Myanmar’s military leaders have struggled to gain control of the streets since ousting the government led by Aung San Suu Kyi, whose party won a landslide victory in November elections. She has urged the country’s 55 million people to oppose the army’s move, calling it “an attempt to bring the nation back under the military dictatorship.”Suu Kyi and other political leaders are among more than 400 people detained since the coup, a number that keeps rising by the day. While authorities have largely avoided confronting protesters in major cities like Yangon who have ignored a ban on public gatherings, several demonstrators have been injured in crackdowns -- including a woman shot in the head who is now on life support in Naypyidaw, the capital.Suu Kyi will remain in detention ahead of a Wednesday court hearing, Reuters reported, citing her lawyer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/myanmar-shuts-down-internet-again-as-protest-crackdown-continues-101613438740007.html
16-02-2021||World||3 sailors have Covid-19 on US ship that saw outbreak last year||Three sailors aboard the USS Theodore Roosevelt have tested positive for Covid-19, the Navy said Monday, less than a year after a massive outbreak on the ship sidelined it in Guam for nearly two months.The Navy said the three sailors have not had any symptoms, and they and others who were exposed to them are currently isolated on the aircraft carrier, which is conducting operations in the Pacific. They tested positive Sunday.In a statement, the Navy said it is “following an aggressive mitigation strategy," including masks, social distancing, and proper handwashing and hygiene measures.“U.S. Pacific Fleet is committed to taking every measure possible to protect the health of our force,” the fleet said in the statement.The outbreak on the ship last year was the largest the military has seen so far, with more than 1,000 sailors testing positive. One sailor died. Eventually all of the 4,800 crew members were sent ashore in Guam for weeks of quarantine, in a systematic progression that kept enough sailors on the ship to keep it secure and running.The failure of the ship's leaders to properly handle the outbreak exploded into one of the biggest military leadership crises in recent years. The ship's captain, who pleaded for faster action to protect his crew from the rapidly spreading virus, was fired and the one-star admiral on the ship had his promotion delayed.Adm. Mike Gilday, the chief of naval operations, concluded after a lengthy review that both men made serious errors in judgment.The carrier returned to duty about three months after it docked in Guam and then returned home to the West Coast. Other ships that have been underway or at their home ports over the past year have had smaller numbers of sailors test positive, but none have had such a major outbreak.The Roosevelt has been out on deployment in the Pacific in recent weeks, and about a week ago conducted dual carrier exercises with the USS Nimitz, which is returning home to the West Coast from a lengthy deployment in the Middle East.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/3-sailors-have-covid-19-on-us-ship-that-saw-outbreak-last-year-101613438316146.html
16-02-2021||World||US VP Kamala Harris and Emmanuel Macron talk Covid-19, climate change||Kamala Harris spoke with French President Emmanuel Macron on Monday to discuss topics including the pandemic and climate change, in a rare phone call between a US vice president and a foreign leader.Harris's office released a statement saying she had expressed her commitment "to revitalizing the transatlantic alliance.""Vice President Harris and President Macron agreed on the need for close bilateral and multilateral cooperation to address COVID-19, climate change, and support democracy at home and around the world," the statement said."They also discussed numerous regional challenges, including those in the Middle East and Africa, and the need to confront them together."The Vice President thanked President Macron for his leadership on the issue of gender equality and for France's contribution to NASA's Mars 2020 Perseverance rover."The rover is due to land Thursday on Mars in a pioneering search for signs of ancient microbial life on the Red Planet.The French government confirmed the phone call and its contents as detailed by the US statement.Macron spoke with US President Joe Biden in a phone call on January 24 and reportedly suggested that they broker a settlement on the long-running trade dispute between aircraft manufacturers Boeing and Airbus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-vp-kamala-harris-and-emmanuel-macron-talk-covid-19-climate-change-101613436397077.html
16-02-2021||World||UK may need $84 billion of tax increases to balance the books||The UK could need tax increases of about 60 billion pounds ($84 billion) if Chancellor of the Exchequer Rishi Sunak wants to balance the books, according to the Institute for Fiscal Studies.The warning sets the tone for the Treasury’s budget on March 3, when Sunak is due to outline how he intends to address the ruinous legacy of a pandemic that has driven government borrowing to its highest in peacetime and forced him to deliver 13 emergency statements since he took office a year ago.“It is possible that growth will be fast enough that big fiscal deficits will largely dissipate of their own accord,” said Paul Johnson, director of the IFS. “But that is not a central expectation. More likely, we are on track for ongoing unsustainable deficits. A reckoning in the form of big future tax rises is highly likely, but not as yet inevitable.”The analysis, based on forecasts by Citigroup, indicates the scarring left by the deepest slump in three centuries may be worse than the Office for Budget Responsibility predicted in November. However, the IFS said now is not the time to be trying to fix the public finances, urging Sunak to bolster the recovery first.The report published Tuesday conceded that the outlook now is not much clearer than it was in November. A central scenario would see Britain still borrowing about 130 billion pounds by the middle of the decade, 30% more than the OBR forecast. That could rise to as much 190 billion pounds under a pessimistic scenario. If the economy manages to emerge with little sustained damage, the deficit would fall to pre-pandemic levels of around 50 billion pounds.Britain has suffered both one of the world’s worst health crises per capita, with more than 4 million Covid-19 infections and almost 122,000 people dead, and also one of the poorest economic outcomes.The government is set to borrow 400 billion pounds -- around a fifth of the size of the economy -- in the current fiscal year. A debt burden of over 2 trillion pounds is manageable now because interest rates are at a historic low, though the IFS warned that the Treasury is vulnerable if those rates rise.Ministers are faced with the task of economic rebuilding at the same time it has embraced two bigger generational challenges: Brexit and commitments to zero out net fossil-fuel pollution by the middle of the century.Under Citi’s main scenario:Sunak “needs to strike a balance between continuing support for jobs and businesses harmed by lockdowns, and weaning the economy off blanket support,” Johnson of the IFS said. “Any significant continuation of the furlough scheme must be limited and carefully targeted.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-may-need-84-billion-of-tax-increases-to-balance-the-books-101613436085264.html
16-02-2021||World||China did not fund any infrastructure projects of CPEC, says Pakistan||Beijing has not funded any infrastructure project under the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) initiative, said the Senate Special Committee on CPEC projects.According to a report by The Express Tribune, during the committee meeting Senator Sikandar Mandhro, chief of transport planning at the Pakistan Planning Ministry, said because of the absence of the CPEC funding, some projects, including the Khuzdar-Basima project, were being carried out from the federal development funds.Meanwhile, Committee member Senator Kabir Ahmad Shahi informed that only paperwork was carried out on CPEC."The project started in a way that a tent was set up with a watchman sitting there. The fence around the New Gwadar International Airport is a shambles," he said.Moreover, the projects under the Gwadar Smart Port City Master plan have not been started.In 2015, China announced an economic project in Pakistan worth USD 46 billion. With the CPEC, Beijing aims to expand its influence in Pakistan and across Central and South Asia in order to counter the influence of the United States and India.The CPEC would link Pakistan's southern Gwadar port (626 kilometers, 389 miles west of Karachi) in Balochistan on the Arabian Sea to China's western Xinjiang region. It also includes plans to create road, rail and oil pipeline links to improve connectivity between China and the Middle East.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-did-not-fund-any-infrastructure-projects-of-cpec-says-pakistan-101613435914191.html
16-02-2021||World||Rockets strike near US base in Iraq, killing 1, wounding 5||Rockets struck outside Irbil international airport near where US forces are based in northern Iraq late Monday, killing one US-led coalition contractor and wounding more, Iraqi security and coalition officials reported, sparking fears of new hostilities.At least three rockets hit areas between the civilian airport in the Kurdish-run region and the nearby base hosting US troops. One civilian contractor with the coalition was killed and five others wounded, a coalition spokesman, Col. Wayne Marotto, said in a statement posted on social media. One US service member was also injured, he said.He did not reveal the nationality of the dead contractor and said this was under investigation.No one immediately claimed responsibility.At least two civilians were also wounded and material damage was caused to cars and other property, the security officials said, without providing more details. The rockets were launched from an area south of Irbil near the border with Kirkuk province and fell on some residential areas close to the airport.The officials spoke on condition of anonymity in line with regulations.Attacks targeting Irbil airport are rare. Monday's attack was the first to strike the area in five months.On Sept. 30, when six rockets hit near the airport. Kurdish authorities said they had been launched from a pickup truck in the nearby town of Bartella in Ninevah province, which falls under federal government control.Hoshiyar Zebari, a politburo member of the Kurdistan Democratic Party, said security officials were investigating the source of the attack. “There will be consequences against the culprits. This aggression will not stand,” he tweeted.Rocket attacks have frequently target the US presence in Baghdad, including the US Embassy, as well as convoys ferrying materials for the US-led coalition.The frequency of attacks diminished late last year ahead of US President Joe Biden's inauguration. The US under the previous Trump administration blamed Iran-backed groups for carrying out the attacks. Tensions soared after a Washington-directed drone strike that killed top Iranian Gen. Qassim Soleimani and powerful Iraqi militia leader Abu Mahdi al-Muhandis last year.Trump had said the death of a US contractor would be a red line and provoke US escalation in Iraq. The December 2019 killing of a US civilian contractor in a rocket attack in Kirkuk sparked a tit-for-tat fight on Iraqi soil that brought the country to the brink of a proxy war.US forces have been significantly reduced in Iraq to 2,500 personnel and no longer partake in combat missions with Iraqi forces in ongoing operations against the Islamic State group.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/rockets-strike-near-us-base-in-iraq-killing-1-wounding-5-101613435615153.html
16-02-2021||World||Texas freeze leaves millions in north Mexico without power||Freezing weather in Texas led to a chain of events that left almost 5 million customers in northern Mexico without power Monday as a shortage of natural gas disrupted electricity production.Mexico’s government-owned utility, the Federal Electricity Commission, said its operations were left short as the winter storm in Texas froze natural gas pipelines. It said some private power plants also began shutting down Sunday night. Private plants supply about 80% of power in northern Mexico.Mexico uses gas to generate about 60% of its power, compared to about 40% in the United States. Mexico built pipelines to take advantage of cheap natural gas from the US, often obtained by fracking in Texas, but Mexico does not allow fracking in its own territory.The utility said US electricity demand also rose as temperatures plunged across the border, leading to much higher prices. It said gas prices had risen from about $3 per million BTUs to as much as $600 in recent days.The commission said that by midday Monday it had restored power to about 65% of the 4.8 million customers affected by the blackout, mainly in the northern border states of Chihuahua, Coahuila, Nuevo Leon and Tamaulipas. A smaller number of users were also affected in Durango and Zacatecas.The commission said it was seeking to make up for the shortfall by bringing on line more electricity from hydroelectric and coal-fired plants as well as gas supplied by tanker ships.The utility's director of fuel purchasing, Miguel Reyes Hernández, suggested that what happened in Texas was a perfect storm of factors that choked off imports of gas that Mexico uses to run many of its power plants.“Electricity demand in the United States rose by a little over 20% in just four days," Reyes Hernández said. "The increase was due precisely to the drop in temperatures, and obviously the use of heating in the United States meant an increase in natural gas demand on the one hand, and precisely because of the low temperatures, there was a decrease in renewable energy.”He said US wind turbines “had their blades frozen ... and there was freezing in many pipelines and even at wells.”It was the latest embarrassing failure for the Federal Electricity Commission, the government utility that has become a pet project for President Andrés Manuel López Obrador, who wants to reduce the role of private power generation.In January, the utility acknowledged it had presented a falsified report on a Dec. 28 blackout, which it had blamed on a purported brush fire beneath transmission lines that caused the two-hour power failure affecting one-fourth of Mexico’s customers.López Obrador has not only defended the state-owned company, but he is seeking to eliminate competition from cleaner, privately built generating plants and renewable energy.In January, he proposed a bill that would put cleaner, natural gas and renewable private plants — many built with foreign investment — last in line for electricity purchases. The private and renewable energy plants were encouraged by López Obrador’s predecessors in order to reduce carbon emissions.López Obrador sought in an executive order in 2020 to shore up the government utility by limiting permits to bring other companies' power plants online, including some wind and solar facilities. The president contends green-energy incentives give those plants an unfair advantage over the state utility.With electricity use down overall during the pandemic, the state utility faces declining revenue and increasing stocks of fuel oil it has to burn in power plants. It has also come under pressure to buy coal from domestic mines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/texas-freeze-leaves-millions-in-north-mexico-without-power-101613434255627.html
16-02-2021||World||Natural gas skyrockets again to $500 as blackouts spread in US||Natural gas for physical delivery in the US was trading for as much as $500 per million British thermal units on Monday as demand for the heating and power plant fuel soared amid a deep freeze.Gas at two hubs in the US Midcontinent was trading at $500 per mmBtu and went for $240 at a third on Monday, according to traders. Spot gas has been trading for hundreds of dollars across the central US since Thursday with a surge in heating demand triggering widespread blackouts and sending electricity prices soaring. The fuel normally trades in the region for less than $3 per mmBtu.“It’s a shocking situation,” said Cody Moore, head of gas and power trading at Mercuria Energy America LLC. “It’s chaos. It’s crazy with the prices.” Mercuria booked hotel rooms for some of its employees in the Houston area so they could walk to the office instead of driving on icy roads. “Our first priority was to do whatever we can to keep the grid moving, the gas flowing properly, clients informed and regulatory agencies updated where required,” Moore said.Among other news in US gas markets Monday:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/natural-gas-skyrockets-again-to-500-as-blackouts-spread-in-us-101613427818225.html
16-02-2021||World||Netanyahu acknowledges differences with Biden, but confident he'll call||Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu on Monday acknowledged differences with US President Joe Biden over Iranian and Palestinian issues, but said they enjoy a "very strong" working relationship.The White House on Friday denied that Biden was snubbing Netanyahu by failing to include him so far in an early round of phone calls to foreign leaders since taking office on Jan. 20.Netanyahu dismissed any notion that Biden was intentionally excluding him, telling Israel's Channel 12 television channel: "He'll call ... We have had very strong friendly relations for nearly 40 years, dating from the time I came to Washington as an Israeli diplomatic representative and he was a young senator from Delaware."There has been speculation that the Democratic president could be signalling displeasure over Netanyahu's close ties with former President Donald Trump, who called the right-wing leader two days after his inauguration in 2017."We also have many things we agree on and the alliance is very strong," Netanyahu said. "But there are also differences, on the issue of Iran and on the Palestinian issue as well."Netanyahu may find the alliance tested if Washington restores U.S. participation in the Iran nuclear deal, from which Trump withdrew, and opposes Israeli settlement building on occupied land where Palestinians seek statehood.On Friday, the White House said Biden and Netanyahu would speak soon, but gave no date.(Writing by Jeffrey Heller; Editing by Dan Grebler)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/netanyahu-acknowledges-differences-with-biden-but-confident-he-ll-call-101613428707233.html
16-02-2021||World||Cold snap leaves 5 million in Texas, Mexico without power||A rare deep freeze in Texas that raised demand for power forced the US state's electric grid operator on Monday to impose rotating blackouts that left nearly 3 million customers without electricity.The cold snap sweeping Texas reached the northern part of neighboring Mexico as well, where authorities said 4.7 million users lost power early on Monday. Around midday, service had been restored to almost 2.6 million of them.The PowerOutage.us website, which tracks power outages, said 2,820,764 Texas customers were experiencing outages around 2 p.m. CST (2000 GMT).President Joe Biden declared an emergency on Monday, unlocking federal assistance to Texas, where temperatures on Monday ranged from 28 to minus 8 degrees Fahrenheit (minus 2 to minus 22 Celsius)."The Texas power grid has not been compromised. The ability of some companies that generate the power has been frozen," Texas Governor Greg Abbott wrote on Twitter on Monday. "They are working to get generation back on line."Houston's George Bush Intercontinental Airport said it would remain closed until at least 1 p.m. CST (1900 GMT) on Tuesday while the city's Hobby Airport ceased operations until at least noon on Tuesday due to the inclement weather.The freeze also took a toll on the energy industry in Texas, by far the country's largest crude producer, shutting oil refineries and forcing restrictions from natural gas pipeline operators.Apart from Texas, much of the United States was in the grip of bone-chilling weather over the three-day Presidents Day holiday weekend.The National Weather Service said an Arctic air mass had spread southwards, well beyond areas accustomed to freezing weather, with winter storm warnings posted for most of the Gulf Coast region, Oklahoma and Missouri.In Louisiana, where freezing temperatures also prompted power outages and road closures, some parishes imposed curfews to keep residents off the road.RECORD DEMANDThe Electric Reliability Council of Texas (ERCOT) sought to cut power use in response to a winter record of 69,150 megawatts (MW) on Sunday evening, more than 3,200 MW higher than the previous winter peak in January 2018.About 10,500 MW of customer load was shed at the highest point, enough power to serve approximately two million homes, it said, adding that extreme weather caused many generating units across fuel types to trip offline and become unavailable."Controlled outages will continue through today and into early tomorrow, possibly all of tomorrow," Dan Woodfin, director of systems operations at ERCOT, said at a Monday briefing.The storms knocked out nearly half the Texas wind power generation capacity on Sunday. Wind generation ranks as the second-largest source of electricity in Texas, accounting for 23% of state power supplies, ERCOT estimates.Of the 25,000-plus MW of wind power capacity normally available in Texas, 12,000 MW were out of service on Sunday morning, an ERCOT spokeswoman said.An emergency notice issued by the regulator urged customers to limit power usage and prevent an uncontrolled systemwide outage.The spot price of electricity on the Texas power grid spiked more than 10,000% on Monday. Due to the extreme cold across the region where it operates, Arkansas-based Southwest Power Pool said in a statement it had directed member utilities to implement rolling blackouts."In our history as a grid operator, this is an unprecedented event and it marks the first time SPP has ever had to call for controlled interruptions of service," executive vice president Lanny Nickell said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/cold-snap-leaves-5-million-in-texas-mexico-without-power-101613428731308.html
16-02-2021||World||Controversial social network Parler announces relaunch||Social network Parler, which is popular with supporters of Donald Trump, announced Monday it had relaunched after being forced offline over incitements to violence on the platform.Parler, which calls itself "the free speech social network", came under scrutiny following the January 6 attack on the US Capitol.Apple and Google pulled the network's app from their download platforms and Amazon's web hosting service cut ties as well."Parler was built to offer a social media platform that protects free speech and values privacy and civil discourse," interim CEO Mark Meckler said in a statement.He added the network was determined to return despite being taken offline "by those who desire to silence tens of millions of Americans."Parler, which claims to have over 20 million users, said it was back for users that already had its app. New users won't be able to get access until next week.Some users reported Monday on other social networks that they were having trouble connecting, including owners of Apple devices.The January 6 attack, when Donald Trump's supporters stormed the US Congress building in Washington, was followed by questions over the influence of Trump and far-right groups on social media.The ex-president was banned from Facebook and Twitter over the incitement of rioters in the storming of the US Capitol."Parler is being run by an experienced team and is here to stay. We will thrive as the premier social media platform dedicated to free speech, privacy and civil dialogue," Meckler said.Nevada-based Parler, which launched in 2018, operates much like Twitter, with profiles to follow and "parleys" instead of tweets.In its early days, the platform attracted a crowd of ultraconservative and even extreme-right users. It has since signed up many more traditional Republican voices.Parler fired its chief executive John Matze soon after the deadly attack on the US Capitol.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/controversial-social-network-parler-announces-relaunch-101613428743267.html
16-02-2021||World||EU to launch study programme for Covid-19 variants||The European Union will this week kick off a new programme to study mutations in the Covid-19 virus, in a bid to prepare for the next generation of vaccines that might be needed, the European Commission's president told Les Echos.The programme, dubbed "HERA incubator," will bring together health authorities and laboratories and have its own funding, Ursula von der Leyen said in an interview with the French financial newspaper. It will be launched on Wednesday."As of now, and in parallel to the efforts being made on the current vaccines, we have to help industrial companies develop production capacities for second generation vaccines," von der Leyen was quoted as saying.Von der Leyen last week acknowledged failings in the EU's approval and rollout of vaccines against Covid-19 and said the bloc had learned lessons in the process after criticism of the slow roll-out of vaccines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/eu-to-launch-study-programme-for-covid-19-variants-101613427839231.html
16-02-2021||World||America’s largest oil refineries are going dark amid cold||After creating havoc in the power and natural gas markets, the next commodity sector causing concern in Texas is the state’s enormous oil refining industry, where installations are being forced offline by the big freeze.The largest refineries in North America were shutting down Monday because of arctic conditions that have cut electricity, water and fuel supplies across Texas. More than 3 million barrels of daily oil-processing capacity has been idled in the wake of the record-setting cold, according to consultant Energy Aspects Ltd.The shutdowns portend tightening supplies and higher prices for everything from gasoline to propane in coming days and weeks in cities across the country that rely on the US Gulf Coast for fuels. The impact on fuel supplied by pipeline will likely spread far beyond Texas if the outages last more than a few days, considering that the oil industry had already cut back production during the pandemic. The Gulf Coast supplies more than three-fifths of the East Coast’s fuel.Gasoline futures rose 3.5% to $1.75 a gallon on the New York Mercantile Exchange on Monday as traders watched developments in Texas:Oil pipelines, electricity generators and wind farms have been paralyzed by the extreme weather conditions in the nation’s top crude-producing state. Refinery capacity is shrinking at a faster pace than oil production is declining due to the arctic weather, according to Energy Aspects.“Disruptions to refining operations could be prolonged if the cold damages any equipment or if the power outages affecting Texas are not resolved quickly,” the consultant said in a note to clients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/americas-largest-oil-refineries-are-going-dark-amid-cold-101613427847240.html
16-02-2021||World||Singapore likely to run deficit for 3rd year due to coronavirus pandemic||Singapore’s budget on Tuesday is expected to offer more targeted measures to support the economy’s recovery from its worst year since independence, setting up a third straight budget deficit for the traditionally fiscally conservative city-state.While the the nation appears past the worst of the pandemic and its spending shortfall is narrowing, industries including food and beverage and those associated with travel remain crushed by mobility restrictions. Firms are also still grappling with restructuring staffs and supply chains.“Certain sectors are still struggling with weak demand, high operating costs and manpower constraints and may require continued policy assistance,” Selena Ling, head of treasury research and strategy at Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp. in Singapore, said in a Feb. 5 report. “Some of these support measures are gradually reaching the end of their shelf life, but a premature full-scale withdrawal is also unlikely in order to forestall a ‘cliff effect.’”The spending plan for the year starting April 1 may result in a budget deficit equivalent to 4% of gross domestic product, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of economists.While this would mark a third straight year of shortfalls, it’s quickly narrowing from 2020’s record deficit, which is estimated to come in 15.5%. That number had ballooned last year from the government’s initial projection of 2.1% as the severity of the pandemic’s impact triggered multiple stimulus pledges.“Targeted” is the watchword in the new budget as officials balance additional support for vulnerable businesses and households against long-standing caution on debt management. The government already pledged about S$100 billion ($75.6 billion) on pandemic-related stimulus, with approval to fund about half of that from past reserves.Bigger questions lie on the revenue side, with a planned increase in the goods and services tax after 2021 potentially delayed, while other duties might be levied to offset higher spending.Six of the 12 analysts polled by Bloomberg through Feb. 11 said the single-most urgent economic need for the budget to address was supporting small- and medium-sized enterprises to ensure that the whole economy recovers.Here’s a look at what might be in Tuesday’s budget speech to Parliament, to be delivered by Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister Heng Swee Keat:Small Businesses, Hard-Hit SectorsSMEs were cushioned last year by wage subsidies and tax and rental relief, though managers largely remained downbeat about the outlook at year-end, according to a Singapore Business Federation survey.Nine of the 12 Bloomberg survey respondents expect small businesses to be the biggest winners out of this budget.Hospitality and retail sectors will be in focus, as well as aviation. Tourism-impacted businesses probably will be the only ones to get an extension of wage subsidies, Citigroup Inc. analysts Kit Wei Zheng and Kai Wei Ang said in a Jan. 28 report.Innovation, TechnologyThe government’s tagline “emerge stronger” has been tied to plans over the past year to accelerate the transition to a more digital economy, including cashless payments and helping workers transition to next-generation roles.Singapore has laid out a five-year plan to invest S$25 billion for research and development and debuted a special work visa for technology jobs. Its No. 2 ranking in the ninth annual Bloomberg Innovation Index reaffirmed its standing as a world-class innovator.A pandemic-era push to prioritize the workforce’s “Singaporean core” has re-kindled debate over relying on foreign staff versus developing local talent in some high-value sectors. Last year, total employment contracted by 172,200 last year, with 181,500 non-resident jobs lost versus a gain of 9,300 for residents.“Policymakers may want to capitalize on this window to further nudge companies toward fostering a Singaporean core workforce, and to invest in automation,” Irvin Seah, senior economist at DBS Bank Ltd. in Singapore, said in a Jan. 19 report.GST, Other TaxesThe government has signaled that a planned rise of the Goods and Services Tax from 7% won’t happen until at least next year. Any hint of an alteration in the timeline could impact inflation projections and monetary policy.David Sandison, head of tax for Grant Thornton Singapore Pte Ltd., a business adviser, predicts a GST increase in 2023 and “possibly, with only a 1% hike, the rest hot on its heels.” Maybank analysts project a rise in 2022 or 2023.Grant Thornton partner Eng Min Lor suggests that corporate income tax rebates and their caps -- which typically are announced for the next year -- could be charted for the next two years to help businesses plan. She’ll also be on the lookout for cash grants to loss-making companies.Climate, Digital EconomySingapore’s officials have trumpeted the “green economy” and efforts to be a world leader in combating climate impacts.OCBC’s Ling suggests it might be time to boost the carbon tax from $5 per metric ton, given the government’s goal of $10-$15 per ton by 2030. She’s also looking for green finance incentives given the flurry of such deals lately.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/singapore-likely-to-run-deficit-for-3rd-year-due-to-coronavirus-pandemic-101613427869293.html
16-02-2021||World||Nancy Pelosi says independent commission will examine Capitol riot||House Speaker Nancy Pelosi says Congress will establish an independent, Sept. 11-style commission to look into the deadly insurrection that took place at the US Capitol.Pelosi says the commission will “investigate and report on the facts and causes relating to the January 6, 2021, domestic terrorist attack upon the United States Capitol Complex … and relating to the interference with the peaceful transfer of power."The speaker says in a letter to Democratic colleagues that the House will also put forth supplemental spending to boost security at the Capitol.After former President Donald Trump's acquittal at his second Senate impeachment trial, bipartisan support appears to be growing for an independent Sept. 11-style commission into the deadly insurrection that took place at the US Capitol.Investigations into the riot were already planned, with Senate hearings scheduled later this month in the Senate Rules Committee. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., has asked retired Army Lt. Gen. Russel Honoré to lead an immediate review of the Capitol’s security process.Lawmakers from both parties, speaking on Sunday's news shows, signaled that even more inquiries were likely. The Senate verdict Saturday, with its 57-43 majority falling 10 votes short of the two-thirds needed to convict Trump, hardly put to rest the debate about the Republican former president’s culpability for the Jan. 6 assault.“There should be a complete investigation about what happened,” said Louisiana Sen. Bill Cassidy, one of seven Republicans who voted to convict Trump. “What was known, who knew it and when they knew, all that, because that builds the basis so this never happens again.”Cassidy said he was “attempting to hold President Trump accountable,” and added that as Americans hear all the facts, “more folks will move to where I was.” He was censured by his state’s party after the vote.An independent commission along the lines of the one that investigated the Sept. 11 attacks would probably require legislation to create. That would elevate the investigation a step higher, offering a definitive government-backed accounting of events. Pelosi has expressed support for such a commission while stressing that the members who sit on it would be key. Still, such a panel would pose risks of sharpening partisan divisions or overshadowing President Joe Biden's legislative agenda.“There’s still more evidence that the American people need and deserve to hear and a 9/11 commission is a way to make sure that we secure the Capitol going forward,” said Sen. Chris Coons, D-Del., a Biden ally. “And that we lay bare the record of just how responsible and how abjectly violating of his constitutional oath President Trump really was.”House prosecutors who argued for Trump's conviction of inciting the riot said Sunday they had proved their case. They also railed against the Senate’s Republican leader, Mitch McConnell, and others who they said were “trying to have it both ways” in finding the former president not guilty but criticizing him at the same time.A close Trump ally, Sen. Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., voted for acquittal but acknowledged that Trump had some culpability for the siege at the Capitol that killed five people, including a police officer, and disrupted lawmakers’ certification of Biden’s White House victory. Graham said he looked forward to campaigning with Trump in the 2022 election, when Republicans hope to regain the congressional majority.“His behavior after the election was over the top,” Graham said. “We need a 9/11 commission to find out what happened and make sure it never happens again.”The Senate acquitted Trump of a charge of “incitement of insurrection” after House prosecutors laid out a case that he was an “inciter in chief” who unleashed a mob by stoking a monthslong campaign of spreading debunked conspiracy theories and false violent rhetoric that the 2020 election was stolen from him.Trump’s lawyers countered that Trump’s words were not intended to incite the violence and that impeachment was nothing but a “witch hunt” designed to prevent him from serving in office again.The conviction tally was the most bipartisan in American history but left Trump to declare victory and signal a political revival while a bitterly divided GOP bickered over its direction and his place in the party.The Republicans who joined Cassidy in voting to convict were Sens. Richard Burr of North Carolina, Susan Collins of Maine, Lisa Murkowski of Alaska, Mitt Romney of Utah, Ben Sasse of Nebraska and Pat Toomey of Pennsylvania.“It’s frustrating, but the founders knew what they were doing and so we live with the system that we have,” Democratic Del. Stacey Plaskett, a House prosecutor who represents the Virgin Islands, said of the verdict, describing it as “heartbreaking.” She added: “But, listen, we didn’t need more witnesses. We needed more senators with spines.”McConnell told Republican senators shortly before the vote that he would vote to acquit Trump. In a blistering speech after the vote, the Kentucky Republican said the president was “practically and morally responsible for provoking the events of that day" but that the Senate's hands were tied to do anything about it because Trump was out of office. The Senate, in an earlier vote, had deemed the trial constitutional.“It was powerful to hear the 57 guilties and then it was puzzling to hear and see Mitch McConnell stand and say ‘not guilty’ and then, minutes later, stand again and say he was guilty of everything,” said Rep. Madeleine Dean, D-Pa. “History will remember that statement of speaking out of two sides of his mouth,” she said.Dean also backed the idea of an impartial investigative commission "not guided by politics but filled with people who would stand up to the courage of their conviction.”The lead House impeachment manager, Rep. Jamie Raskin, D-Md., called the trial a “dramatic success in historical terms” by winning unprecedented support from GOP senators. He said the verdict didn't match the reality of the strength of evidence.“We successfully prosecuted him and convicted him in the court of public opinion and the court of history,” he said. Pointing to McConnell and other Republican senators critical of Trump but voting to acquit, Raskin said, “They’re trying to have it both ways.”Raskin and Plaskett defended the House team’s last-minute reversal not to call a witness, Rep. Jaime Herrera Beutler, R-Wash. They acknowledged they were aware they might lose some GOP votes for conviction if they extended the trial much longer.Beutler's statement late Friday that Trump rebuffed a plea from House Republican leader Kevin McCarthy to call off the rioters was ultimately entered into the trial record.“I think what we did was, we got what we wanted, which was her statement, which was what she said, and had it put into the record,” Plaskett said.Cassidy and Dean spoke on ABC's “This Week,” Graham appeared on “Fox News Sunday,” Raskin was on NBC's “Meet the Press,” and Plaskett appeared on CNN's “State of the Union.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nancy-pelosi-says-independent-commission-will-examine-capitol-riot-101613427881319.html
16-02-2021||World||Biden faces questions about commitment to minimum wage hike||Union activist Terrence Wise recalls being laughed at when he began pushing for a national $15 per hour minimum wage almost a decade ago. Nearly a year into the pandemic, the idea isn't so funny.The coronavirus has renewed focus on challenges facing hourly employees who have continued working in grocery stores, gas stations and other in-person locations even as much of the workforce has shifted to virtual environments. President Joe Biden has responded by including a provision in the massive pandemic relief bill that would more than double the minimum wage from the current $7.25 to $15 per hour.But the effort is facing an unexpected roadblock: Biden himself. The president has seemingly undermined the push to raise the minimum wage by acknowledging its dim prospects in Congress, where it faces political opposition and procedural hurdles.That's frustrating to activists like Wise, who worry their victory is being snatched away at the last minute despite an administration that's otherwise an outspoken ally.“To have it this close on the doorstep, they need to get it done,” said Wise, a 41-year-old department manager at a McDonald's in Kansas City and a national leader of Fight for 15, an organized labor movement. "They need to feel the pressure.”The minimum wage debate highlights one of the central tensions emerging in the early days of Biden's presidency. He won the White House with pledges to respond to the pandemic with a barrage of liberal policy proposals. But as a 36-year veteran of the Senate, Biden is particularly attuned to the political dynamics on Capitol Hill and can be blunt in his assessments."I don’t think it's going to survive,” Biden recently told CBS News, referring to the minimum wage hike.There's a certain political realism in Biden's remark.With the Senate evenly divided, the proposal doesn't have the 60 votes needed to make it to the floor on its own. Democrats could use an arcane budgetary procedure that would attach the minimum wage to the pandemic response bill and allow it to pass with a simple majority vote.But even that's not easy. Some moderate Democratic senators, including Joe Manchin of West Virginia and Krysten Sinema of Arizona, have expressed either outright opposition to the hike or said it shouldn't be included in the pandemic legislation.The Senate's parliamentarian may further complicate things with a ruling that the minimum wage measure can't be included in the pandemic bill.For now, the measure's most progressive Senate backers aren't openly pressuring Biden to step up his campaign for a higher minimum wage.Bernie Sanders, the chair of the Senate Budget Committee, has said he's largely focused on winning approval from the parliamentarian to tack the provision onto the pandemic bill. Sen. Elizabeth Warren, who like Sanders challenged Biden from the left for the Democratic nomination, has only tweeted that Democrats should “right this wrong."Some activists, however, are encouraging Biden to be more aggressive.The Rev. Dr. William J. Barber II, the co-chair of the Poor People’s Campaign, said Biden has a “mandate” to ensure the minimum wage increases, noting that minority Americans were “the first to go back to jobs, first to get infected, first to get sick, first to die” during the pandemic.“We cannot be the last to get relief and the last to get treated and paid properly,” Barber said.The federal minimum wage hasn’t been raised since 2009, the longest stretch without an increase since its creation in 1938. When adjusted for inflation, the purchasing power of the current $7.25 wage has declined more than a dollar in the last 11-plus years.Democrats have long promised an increase — support for a $15 minimum wage was including in the party’s 2016 political platform — but haven’t delivered.Supporters say the coronavirus has made a higher minimum wage all the more urgent since workers earning it are disproportionately people of color. The liberal Economic Policy Institute found that more than 19% of Hispanic workers and more than 14% of Black workers earned hourly wages that kept them below federal poverty guidelines in 2017.Blacks, Hispanics and Native Americans in the U.S. also have rates of hospitalization and death from Covid-19 that are two to four times higher than for whites, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.People of color are a vital part Biden’s constituency, constituting 38% of his support in November’s election, according to AP VoteCast, a nationwide survey of the electorate.Adrianne Shropshire. executive director of BlackPAC, noted that Biden has promised to address racial inequalities and create a more fair economy. That means he now has a chance to ensure that hourly wage earners “come out of this pandemic in better shape than they went into it.”“The recovery around Covid shouldn’t just be about how to stabilize and get people back to zero,” Shropshire said. “It should be about how do we create opportunities to move people beyond where they were.”The White House says Biden isn’t giving up on the issue. His comments to CBS, according to an aide, reflected his own evaluation of where the parliamentarian would rule based on his decades of experience in the Senate dealing with similar negotiations.Biden suggested in the same interview that he’s prepared to engage in a “separate negotiation” on raising the minimum wage, but White House press secretary Jen Psaki offered no further details on the future of the proposal if it is in fact cut from the final coronavirus aid bill.One option could be forcing passage by having Vice President Kamala Harris, as the Senate’s presiding officer, overrule the parliamentarian. But Psaki was clear in opposing that: “Our view is that the parliamentarian is who is chosen, typically, to make a decision in a nonpartisan manner.”Navin Nayak, executive director of the Center for American Progress Action Fund, the political arm of the progressive think tank, said he wasn’t surprised at Biden’s assessment, but still feels the White House is making good faith efforts.“They’re not putting this in there to lose it — they put it in there to win it,” Nayak said.Nayak also noted Biden’s comments came before a Congressional Budget Office projection that found the proposal would help lift millions of Americans out of poverty but increase the federal deficit and cost 1.4 million jobs as employers scale back costlier workforces.Sanders and other supporters argue that the CBO's finding that raising the minimum wage will increase the deficit means it impacts the budget — and should therefore be allowed as part of the Covid relief bill. But that will ultimately be up to the Senate parliamentarian.For Wise, potential congressional hurdles pale in comparison to real world realities.He makes $14 an hour and his fiancé works as a home health care professional. But when she went into quarantine because of possible exposure to the coronavirus and he missed work to care for their three daughters, it wasn’t long before the family was served with an eviction notice.People “figure it’s something we’re doing wrong. We’re going to work. We’re productive. We’re law-abiding citizens,” Wise said. “It shouldn’t have to be that way.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-faces-questions-about-commitment-to-minimum-wage-hike-101613427889262.html
16-02-2021||World||Already in the red, Covid threatens New York's iconic yellow taxis||They were omnipresent on the streets of New York day and night, as emblematic of the Big Apple as the Empire State Building or Yankees caps. But the pandemic has made yellow taxis scarce and facing an uncertain future.On a February morning in a parking lot near La Guardia Airport, a few dozen of the yellow cabs patiently queue in the freezing cold to catch a fare from one of the terminals."This lot used to be full with hundreds of cabs and even a line outside," says 65-year-old Joey Olivo, recalling the days before coronavirus."Now there is only about 50 and you wait two hours, when before you'd wait 20 minutes," adds Olivo, a taxi driver for three decades.Widespread working from home, school closures and no tourists means rides have plummeted for Olivo, as they have for all of New York's cabbies."It's been pretty bad. My earnings dropped 80 percent. I went from making maybe $1,000 a week to making two or 300 dollars a week," he told AFP.Olivo, who lives in Brooklyn, is trying to put a brave face on his situation, joking that he is lucky his wife "makes good money" as a nurse, otherwise "I would have had a rope around my neck."- 'Free fall' -New York taxi drivers, most of whom are first-generation immigrants, were once able to make $7,000 a month or more if they worked long hours seven days a week.Competition from Uber, Lyft and other vehicle-for-hire firms had already drastically dented their income, but with the pandemic it is in "free fall," says Richard Chow, a 62-year-old taxi driver originally from Myanmar.Chow is not feeling the press as much as most, because he bought his license, called a "medallion" in New York, for $410,000 in 2006.In the years that followed, medallion prices soared, inflated by a nexus of bankers, investors and lawyers.In 2009, his younger brother Kenny Chow paid $750,000 for his license. In 2014, the cost of medallion reached $1 million.The arrival of thousands of new drivers working for Uber and others has caused the medallion bubble to burst and condemned thousands of cabbies who had bought medallions at a high cost on credit to fall into debt or bankruptcy.Kenny Chow and at least seven other drivers, including of black cars and limousines, committed suicide in 2018, underscoring a dire situation that has been worsened by the pandemic."The pandemic has just been devastating," said Bhairavi Desai, executive director of the Taxi Workers Alliance."Before the pandemic, ridership had been down by 50 percent. Since the pandemic, it's down closer to 90 percent," she told AFP."The parts of the city that are the most deserted are the parts of Manhattan where drivers depend on in order to earn their living, and the airports," Desai added.Hence the scarcity of yellow taxis. Out of some 13,000 licenses, only about 5,000 taxis are running regularly at the moment, according to the union.Some 7,000 others aren't even leaving their garages. According to William Pierre, a driver from Haiti, it is no longer profitable.He continues to drive even though his daily earnings barely exceed $100 to $150, which he shares 50/50 with the company that leases the car to him."I don't want to stay home. I want to be out there to feed my family," he says.So could the yellow taxis, which replaced checkered-striped cabs in the 1960s, actually disappear?- 'Cultural icon' -Olivo and Pierre believe business will pick up eventually, even though they agree it will never be the same again.Desai fears yellow cabs "will slowly phase out" if the city government does not erase drivers' debts.Her union is stepping up protests and dozens of drivers briefly blocked traffic on the Brooklyn Bridge on Wednesday."You know you are in NYC when you see that yellow," says Desai, adding that the taxis are famous the world over."It's a cultural icon... a 24-hour service that is part of the economic, social and cultural fabric of our beautiful city."New York's Democratic mayor, Bill de Blasio, has promised to help the taxi drivers provided the city, economically ravaged by the pandemic, is bailed out by the federal government."If we can get the kind of stimulus support we deserve. I think it opens the door to coming up with a solution to help taxi drivers and families who have suffered so much," he said on Wednesday.cat/pdh/dw||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/already-in-the-red-covid-threatens-new-york-s-iconic-yellow-taxis-101613416212345.html
16-02-2021||World||Effort to mislead global community: Pakistan on visit of foreign envoys to J-K||Ahead of the planned visit of the third batch of foreign envoys to Jammu and Kashmir this week, Pakistan on Monday sought to portray the move as an effort by India to mislead the world community.The external affairs ministry is taking a group of ambassadors and senior diplomats, mainly from European countries, to the Kashmir Valley and Jammu as a continuation of the process that began early last year and was disrupted by the Covid-19 pandemic, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity.The envoys are expected to be in the Kashmir Valley on February 17, before travelling to Jammu the following day. As with the two groups of envoys that visited the region in January and February 2020, the third batch is expected to interact with grassroots political leaders, members of civil society groups and businessmen.In a statement issued in Islamabad, Pakistan’s Foreign Office described the planned visit by the diplomats as part of India’s efforts to “mislead the world community”.“Such guided tours are a smokescreen, aimed at diverting international attention from India’s egregious human rights violations in [Jammu and Kashmir] and creating a false impression of ‘normalcy’,” the statement said.There was no immediate response from Indian officials to the statement.The visit is being arranged less than two weeks after the government restored 4G mobile internet services in the union territory. The services were snapped and other restrictions were imposed when the government scrapped Jammu and Kashmir’s special status in August 2019 and split the erstwhile state into two union territories.The restrictions have been gradually eased over the past year.Pakistan has opposed India’s actions in Jammu and Kashmir, which took bilateral ties to a fresh low. Islamabad asked the Indian envoy to leave and decided not to post a high commissioner in New Delhi. The Indian side spurned a recent offer of friendship from the Pakistan Army chief, saying talks can’t be held without the creation of an atmosphere free of terror and violence by Pakistan.The Pakistan Foreign Office’s statement also called for foreign diplomats to be given access to all areas and to be allowed to freely interact with Kashmiri people, civil society and the senior Hurriyat leadership. It also called for India to allow the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights, UN observers and international media to visit Jammu and Kashmir.In the past, India has described such moves by Pakistan as interference in its internal affairs and rejected them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/effort-to-mislead-global-community-pakistan-on-visit-of-foreign-envoys-to-jk-101613413030748.html
16-02-2021||India||Haryana to bring cancer, HIV patients under social security pension scheme||The Haryana government will bring patients of the state suffering from cancer, HIV and serious kidney ailments under the ambit of its social security pension scheme.Haryana's Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment, Om Prakash Yadav, on Tuesday said that on the lines of the old age pension, the state's cancer, kidney and HIV patients will be given a pension of ₹2,250 per month.He said that about 25,000 beneficiaries suffering from cancer, serious kidney ailments and HIV will get the benefit.A status report has been sought from the chief medical officers of all the districts for this. The pension scheme will be implemented as soon as the report is submitted, the minister said, as per an official statement.Yadav said that the scheme would have been implemented last year itself, but due to Covid-19, it got delayed.It will be implemented soon, he said.At present, over 28 lakh beneficiaries get social security pension of ₹2,250 per month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/haryana-to-bring-cancer-hiv-patients-under-social-security-pension-scheme-101613495250666.html
16-02-2021||India||Delhi records 94 new Covid-19 cases, lowest in over 9 months||Delhi reported 94 fresh cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours, the lowest in more than nine months, according to the daily health bulletin issued by the government on Tuesday. It is also the second time in the last 22 days that the number of infections is below 100. On January 27, the national capital had recorded 96 cases of Covid-19 in 24 hours.On Monday, the national capital had reported 134 cases and two deaths. The average number of daily infections has hovered between 131 to 158, according to government data.As the Covid-19 cases continue to fall in Delhi, the number of related fatalities in the same period was recorded at one taking the death toll in the Capital to 10,894. The positivity rate has fallen to 0.17, the bulletin showed.Delhi has also reported a steady decline in the number of fatalities. In the last seven days, the daily number of fatalities has remained below five. It reported no deaths on Saturday—the second time in February when the single-day fatality count was nil. Before that, zero fatalities were reported on February 9 after a gap of nearly nine months.Delhi’s tally of Covid-19 has now risen to 6,37,181 and the number of active cases is at 10,19. The number of tests done in the last 24 hours stood at 56,944.India is the second country to be worst hit by the Covid-19. The United States tops the chart while Brazil and the United Kingdom follows with 9,866,710 cases and 4,059,696 cases respectively.On Tuesday, India’s Covid-19 caseload reached 10,925,710 after 9,121 people contracted the virus. According to the Union health ministry, 17 states and Union territories reported no fresh fatalities in the last 24 hours and six of them reported no new infections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-records-94-new-covid-19-cases-lowest-in-over-9-months-101613495016293.html
16-02-2021||India||₹500 cr to be spent on replacing barbed wires, wooden poles in Jammu||An amount of ₹500 crore would be spent on replacement of all wooden electricity poles and barbed wire across the Jammu Division to ensure reliable power supply, a senior officer of the Jammu and Kashmir administration said on Tuesday.Principal Secretary, Power Development Department (PDD), Rohit Kanal also said the department would insure each of its field workers, including daily rated workers, and for life and any possible injuries.Chairing a meeting to review summer preparedness of the department to ensure reliable power supply to the Jammu Division during summer months, Kansal said, "The government has decided to replace all the wooden poles and barbed wire in the Jammu Division and has kept aside a sum of ₹500 crore for the same."He said the safety and welfare of ground level workers is paramount."Each human life is valuable and needs to be safeguarded at every cost," he said and directed to enhance substantially personal and systematic safety by the department so that accidents are avoided to a larger extent."To extend the welfare and well-being of its workers, the PDD will insure each of its field workers, including DRWs, PDL and TDL persons for life and any possible injuries," he said.Kansal also directed the officers to strengthen their grievance redressal mechanism so that people are able to reach higher officers on a real-time basis.He advised them to increase their reach on social media like Twitter so that necessary complaints reach them directly.The officer directed for taking proper note of grievances and directions from the Lt governor's office so that they are solved and implemented well in time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rs-500-cr-to-be-spent-on-replacing-barbed-wires-wooden-poles-in-jammu-101613494260695.html
16-02-2021||India||Govt releases guidelines for new mapping data policy: All you need to know||In landmark reforms in the country's mapping policy, the government has announced liberalisation of norms governing the acquisition and production of geospatial data. The move is aimed at boosting innovation in the sector and create a level playing field for public and private entities.Geospatial data is information related to any specific location on the Earth's surface. Accurate geospatial data is crucial during the infrastructure projects such as the creation of industrial corridors or linkages of rivers. They are also essential in developing smart-cities, for any work related to logistics and urban transport.Also Read | Govt liberalises India’s geospatial sector. Here’s whyUnder the revised guidelines, the sector will be deregulated and conditions such as prior approvals for surveying, mapping and for building applications have been removed. For Indian entities, there will be complete deregulation with no prior approvals, security clearances, licenses, for acquisition and production of geospatial data and geospatial data services, including maps, as per the guidelines released by the department of science and technology.On Monday, after the government announced the reforms, Prime Minister Narendra Modi hailed the liberalisation of policies, saying it is a "massive step in government's vision for an Aatmanirbhar Bharat (seld-reliant India)". "The reform will benefit the country's farmers, start-ups, private sector, public sector and research institutions to drive innovations and build scalable solutions, he also said.Union minister for science and technology Harsh Vardhan also said the easing of norms will greatly help in several sectors that were suffering because of non-availability of high-quality maps. "Availability of comprehensive, highly accurate, granular and constantly updated representation of geospatial data will significantly benefit diverse sectors of the economy, significantly boost innovation in the country and greatly enhance its preparedness for emergency response," Vardhan had said in a press conference.Here are the guidelines issued by the government:1) Indian entities, whether in government or outside, will be free to acquire, collect, generate, prepare, disseminate, store, share, publish, distribute, update, digitise and/or create geospatial data, including maps, of any spatial accuracy within the territory of India including underwater within its territorial waters by using any geospatial technology. The permission will be subjected to regulations on attributes in the negative lists.2) There will no requirement for prior approval, security clearance, license or any other restrictions on the collection, generation, preparation, dissemination, storage of geospatial data and maps within the Indian territory.3) Individuals, companies, organisations, and Government agencies are also free to process the acquired Geospatial Data, build applications and develop solutions in relation to such data and use such data products, applications, solutions, etc by way of selling, distributing, sharing, swapping, disseminating, publishing, deprecating and destructing. However, self-certification will be used to convey adherence to these guidelines.4) There will not be any negative list of prohibited areas.5) Foreign companies and foreign-owned or controlled Indian companies can acquire a license from Indian entities digital Maps/Geospatial Data of spatial accuracy/value finer than the threshold value. It will only be given only for the purpose of serving its customers in India. Re-use or resale of such map data by licensees has been prohibited.6) Digital maps or geospatial data of spatial accuracy/value up to the threshold value can be uploaded to the cloud but those with accuracy finer than the threshold value, mentioned in the government order, shall only be stored and processed on a domestic cloud or on servers that are physically located within the territory of India.7) For political maps of India of any scale including national, state and other boundaries, Survey of India (SoI) published maps or SoI digital boundary data are the standard to be used, which shall be made easily downloadable for free and their digital display and printing shall be permissible. Others can publish such maps but that adherence to these standards is mandatory.8) Entities which produce geospatial data using public funds are required to make data easily accessible for scientific, economic and developmental purposes to all Indian Entities and without any restrictions on their use. Security and enforcement agencies are exempted from this.9) The entities are required to provide such data free of cost to government agencies and at fair and transparent pricing to others.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-releases-guidelines-for-new-mapping-data-policy-all-you-need-to-know-101613493518183.html
16-02-2021||India||If you took yoga lessons from Ramdev: Tharoor's jab over fuel price hike||Congress leader Shashi Tharoor hit out at the Centre on Tuesday over the hike in the prices of petrol and diesel across the country using cartoon with a yoga pose. Before Tharoor, several leaders of the party have accused the government of robbing people by increasing the fuel prices. The Congress party on Monday had demanded an immediate rollback of the hike in the prices of these fuels and stated that the Centre was insensitive towards the problems of the common people.Taking to Twitter, Tharoor shared a cartoon of yoga guru Ramdev doing a sirsasana or a headstand in front of a board showing the price of petrol at ₹90 per litre. “If you took yoga lessons from Baba Ramdev, you too could see petrol prices at 06 rupees a litre!” the Thiruvananthapuram lawmaker posted explaining his point.Earlier in the day, Congress’ chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala explained the taxation and pricing system of petrol and diesel and alleged that the central government had earned ₹20 lakh crore in the last six years. Sharing a price list on Twitter, he accused the Centre of ‘fuel loot’.If you took yoga lessons from BabaRamdev, you too could see petrol prices at 06 rupees a litre! pic.twitter.com/zatuS6t6csCongress’s former president Rahul Gandhi also said that the price hike was meant for robbing the people and ensuring ‘development of only two’. “Modi government is determined. To keep on looting the public. And doing development of only two,” his tweet translated from Hindi read.Gandhi’s ‘development of only two’ is seen as a follow up to his ‘Hum Do, Hamare Do’ jibe in Parliament last week. The Wayanad MP had targeted the Centre over the ongoing farmers’ protest against the three new farm laws by saying that the country was being run by only four people with a ‘Hum Do, Hamare Do’ approach.Petrol and diesel went up for the eighth consecutive day on Tuesday. According to oil marketing companies, petrol was hiked by 30 paise while diesel there was a 35 paise surge in the price of diesel. Petrol price in Delhi was nearly ₹90 per litre while diesel stood at ₹79.70. In Mumbai, prices of petrol and diesel were at ₹95.75 and ₹86.72 respectively.Rajasthan saw the highest surge in petrol prices across India with ₹99.87 being charged for one litre. Diesel in the state went up to ₹91.48 per litre. This comes despite the Congress-led government levying the highest Value Added Tax (VAT) on fuel in the country. VAT on both these fuels had been cut by 2 per cent in the state in January.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/if-you-took-yoga-lessons-from-ramdev-tharoor-s-jab-over-fuel-price-hike-101613493135460.html
16-02-2021||India||Odisha CM lays foundation stone of India's largest hockey stadium in Rourkela||Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Tuesday laid the foundation stone of India's largest hockey stadium in the steel city of Rourkela that would be finished on time before the next edition of men's Hockey World Cup in 2023.Patnaik, who flew to Rourkela city in the tribal-dominated Sundargarh district, announced that the proposed international hockey stadium, with a seating capacity of more than 20,000 people, would be named after freedom fighter Birsa Munda."It would be the most modern field hockey facility in India. The stadium will be a new benchmark in global stadium design for hockey, offering one of the finest spectator experiences in the world," said Patnaik, who also launched various infrastructure development projects worth ₹4,915 crore in the district during his stay in Rourkela.Also read: Karnataka imposes restrictions on travel from Kerala amid Covid spike in B'luruThe stadium will be a model of green, functional, cost-effective design. Designed to deliver the best match-day atmospheres in the world, each seat will have uninterrupted sightlines and the spectators will be closer to the pitch than at any other hockey stadium in the world, said state officials. The stadium would be completed within a year and would host matches of 2023 Hockey World Cup along with the Kalinga Stadium in Bhubaneswar.In 2018, Odisha hosted the Men’s Hockey World Cup in Bhubaneswar's Kalinga stadium in which Belgium emerged as the champion after beating the Netherlands in the finals. India finished sixth in final ranking after getting eliminated in the quarterfinals. In 2014, Odisha hosted men's Hockey Champions Trophy.CM Patnaik, who laid foundation stones of 17 hockey astroturfs last year in as many blocks of the Sundargarh district, said hockey is the identity of Sundergarh. "The hockey players of Sundergarh have earned fame for the nation. Hockey spirit is in the air and water of Sundergarh,” he said.The chief minister's largesse for the tribal-dominated district Sundargarh fits with the BJD's gameplan of strengthening its base in the tribal area where the party has lost its popularity since the 2017 panchayat polls. Of the 35 zilla parishad seats, the party won 14 seats in 2017 panchayat polls and won just 2 MLA seats in 2019 Assembly polls. Its main rival, the BJP, won the MP seat as well as two Assembly seats. The BJP also won the Sundargarh zilla parishad polls in 2017.Ahead of Tuesday's visit, the party had dispatched 90 MLAs and 17 ministers to Rourkela deploying them in almost all gram panchayats and asking them to show Patnaik's speech through giant LCD screens.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-cm-lays-foundation-stone-of-india-s-largest-hockey-stadium-in-rourkela-101613490647236.html
16-02-2021||India||Uddhav Thackeray warns of another lockdown amid rising Covid-19 cases||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday asked people to strictly follow government-mandated guidelines on masks and social distancing or be prepared to face another round of lockdown as the state reported more than 3,000 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Tuesday for the seventh straight day.Maharashtra registered 3,663 new cases of the coronavirus disease on Tuesday, 461 of them in Mumbai, after reporting 4,092 infections on Sunday, highest single-day tally in more than a month. Thackeray said it was up to the state’s citizens to decide if they want to go into a complete lockdown again to curb the spread of the infection, expressing concern over the lackadaisical attitude in following Covid-19-related safety protocols. "It is up to the people of the state to decide if they want a lockdown or live freely with some restrictions. Wear face masks and avoid crowds or else (you) will need to go into a lockdown again," Thackeray said, according to news agency PTI.Before this, Mumbai’s mayor Kishori Pednekar urged the citizens to follow Covid-19 norms and said that the city might head again towards a lockdown if the citizens do not follow Covid-19 rules. The increase in the number of Covid-19 cases was reported in the city ten days after the local trains, considered to be the lifeline of Mumbai, were restarted for the general public from February 1.Maharashtra’s deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar also has warned that the state government might have to take some ‘harsh’ decisions as, according to him, people have stopped following Covid-19 appropriate behaviour. The chief minister asked officials to ensure that safety norms like wearing face masks in public and social distancing are followed and authorised them to take action against offenders. He also asked them to regularly sanitise and disinfect public places. “People may have become complacent but the authorities should not (drop guard)," Thackeray said during a virtual review meeting with divisional commissioners and collectors, according to PTI.Also read | Rising cases of Covid-19 in Kerala, Maharashtra cause of concern: GovtNon-implementation of the standard operating procedures regarding Covid-19 safety is a serious issue, Thackeray said and stressed the need for contact tracing of each patient in areas where cases are rising. "The administration should contact commercial establishments and organisations and check if they are following SoPs. Wherever necessary, declare containment zones… Contact tracing must be done in a targeted manner. At least 20 contacts of each patient should be traced and tested," the CM suggested.Thackeray said people will need the police’s permission for organising weddings, adding that local authorities should keep a vigil on crowding and take immediate action wherever necessary. Banquet hall owners should be punished if anybody is found without a face mask inside the venues, he said. The chief minister said agitations, public meetings and processions should not be permitted given the present Covid-19 situation.Authorities should cancel permits and licences of halls and auditoriums where safety SoPs are not followed during marriages and other social functions, he said. The chief minister directed that field hospitals should be monitored to check if all facilities are functional. He also said that mobile vans should be used in rural areas to increase the number of Covid-19 tests.The state has recorded 2,071,306 cases of the coronavirus disease and related 51,591 deaths to date.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/thackeray-warns-of-another-lockdown-amid-rising-covid-19-cases-101613489738971.html
16-02-2021||India||Kiran Bedi removed as Puducherry LG amid political crisis in Union territory||Puducherry lieutenant governor Kiran Bedi was removed from her post on Tuesday night amid a political crisis in the Union territory after the resignation of several Congress leaders from the V Narayanasamy government and just ahead of the assembly elections in April-May this year. President Ram Nath Kovind said, according to a brief communique issued by Rashtrapati Bhavan late in the evening, that Bedi "shall cease to hold the office of the Lieutenant-Governor of Puducherry" and gave the additional charge of the Union territory to Telengana Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan. “The President has directed that Dr. Kiran Bedi shall cease to hold the office of the Lieutenant-Governor of Puducherry and has appointed Dr. Tamilisai Soundararajan, Governor of Telangana, to discharge the functions of the Lieutenant-Governor of Puducherry, in addition to her own duties, with effect from the date she assumes charge of her office, until regular arrangements for the office of Lieutenant-Governor of Puducherry are made,” the communique from the President’s office said.Also read | BJP appoints election in-charges for Puducherry, 3 poll-bound statesThe direction from the President comes amid the political crisis where the ruling Congress-led government has been reduced to a minority after one more MLA quit the party on Tuesday.The President’s order also comes on a day the government led by Congress’ Narayanasamy, who has been at loggerheads with Bedi over a range of issues, was reduced to a minority after the resignation of legislator A John Kumar. He is the fourth Congress legislator to have quit over the last month. Kumar’s resignation came a day after health minister Malladi Krishna Rao also quit.Ministers A Namassivayam and E Theepaindan had resigned in January and joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Another Congress MLA, N Dhanavelu, was disqualified in July last year for anti-party activities.The strength of the Congress in the 33-member assembly has decreased to 10, including the Speaker. Its ally the DMK has three members and an Independent also supports the government. The opposition has 14 MLAs.The opposition has demanded the resignation of Narayanasamy, saying his government was in minority. Narayanasamy, on his part, has rejected the demand, claiming that his government continues to enjoy 'majority' in the assembly.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kiran-bedi-removed-as-puducherry-s-lieutenant-governor-101613490356384.html
16-02-2021||India||News updates from HT: Biplab Deb's comment upsets Nepal, draws 'formal objection' and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Biplab Deb's 'BJP in Nepal' comment upsets Kathmandu, draws 'formal objection'Nepal has conveyed its “formal objection” to India over Tripura chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb’s remarks about expanding the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) influence to Sri Lanka and Nepal and forming governments there. Read moreKarnataka imposes restrictions on travel from Kerala amid Covid spike in B'luruThe Karnataka government has imposed restrictions of travel on those coming from neighbouring Kerala after two Covid-19 clusters were reported in the city. Read more'Mumbai might head towards lockdown if Covid-19 norms not followed': MayorIn the backdrop of increasing Covid-19 cases in Mumbai and Maharashtra, Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar on Tuesday urged the citizens to follow Covid-19 norms. Pednekar said that the city might head again towards a lockdown if the citizens do not follow Covid-19 rules. Read moreAfter being trolled, Kangana Ranaut says she never compared herself to Tom Cruise: 'Sending a hug and some Burnol'Actor Kangana Ranaut in a tweet on Tuesday followed up on comments she made earlier this month, when she posted an interview in which she was compared to Tom Cruise. Read more‘Never seen any of our greats – be it coach Shastri or Gavaskar - talk about pitches’: AshwinAfter thumping England in the second Test by 317 runs, Indian off-spinner Ravichandran Ashwin weighed in on the ongoing debate over the condition of the pitch at the MA Chidambaram Stadium in Chennai. Read moreDia Mirza’s Banarasi red bridal saree same as Deepika Padukone’s last Diwali oneThe Internet is brimming with love and congratulatory messages for Bollywood actor Dia Mirza as she recently flooded social media with her wedding pictures. Read more2002 Godhra train burning case: Key accused arrested after 19 yearsAlmost 19 years after a mob torched a coach of Sabarmati Express at Godhra station in Panchmahal district of Gujarat which caused the death of 59 'karsevaks', police have nabbed key accused, Rafiq Hussain Bhatuk, from Godhra town, an officer said on Monday. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-biplab-deb-s-bjp-in-nepal-comment-upsets-kathmandu-draws-formal-objection-and-all-the-latest-news-101613488436021.html
16-02-2021||India||Amid fall in India's Covid-19 cases, 3 states see a surge||Karnataka, Maharashtra and Kerala are now on the verge of becoming the new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) hotspots in India. Despite the country seeing a consistent decline in its daily cases and surge in recoveries, with several districts reporting no daily cases or deaths, the situation in these three states is worrying. The Union ministry of health and family welfare on several occasions highlighted that Maharashtra and Kerala account for more than 70 per cent of the total active cases in India and has urged for increased surveillance.“Kerala and Maharashtra with 61,550 and 37,383 active cases respectively account for 72% of the total active cases in the country,” Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said on Tuesday.Also Read| Karnataka imposes restrictions on travel from Kerala amid Covid spike in B'luruMeanwhile, two new Covid-19 clusters have erupted in Bengaluru city, a sign that the overall situation in Karnataka might decline again. The state government has already allowed offline classes for students of sixth, seventh and eighth grades from next week in the backdrop of the surge in daily cases.1. KarnatakaThe state has registered nearly 946,000 cases of the coronavirus disease till now of which 12,267 people have died and 926,664 have been discharged. On Monday, 368 new cases and two more related deaths were added. Since the past few months, Bengaluru and other areas of the state have been seeing a significant rise in infections. As many as 258 people detected positive in Bengaluru on Monday and the state’s two new deaths were reported from the city.The emergence of two new Covid-19 clusters in Bengaluru has led to fear of an incoming wave of cases. Forty-two students of a nursing college in RT Nagar tested positive. While the SNN Raj Lake View Apartment in the Bommanahalli area added 103 cases after a function was held in the clubhouse of premises. The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) called these two clusters as isolated incidents while the civic body’s commissioner Manjunath Prasad termed them as a wake-up call for the IT city of India.Amid the worrying trend, the Karnataka government announced on Tuesday that all those who have arrived from the neighbouring state of Kerala will compulsorily be subjected to RT-PCR tests. While the BBMP said that anyone coming from Kerala should produce a negative RT-PCR test before entering Bengaluru.2. MaharashtraMaharashtra, which continues to be among the worst affected states in the country, is adding more than 3,000 Covid-19 cases on a daily basis. More than 4,000 cases were reported on Sunday—the highest ever in nearly 40 days. As the state government lifted several Covid-19 curbs such as reopening of schools, resumption of train services along with other modes of transport and organising social and cultural functions—the graph is on the rise again.In Mumbai, family functions and vacations at nearby tourist destinations are now becoming the new super-spreader events, according to doctors. The resumption of local trains, which are the main mode of commuting in Maharashtra’s capital, has also proven to be a significant contributor to the rise in cases. More than 600 cases were added on Sunday—the highest since January.Also Read| ‘In people’s hands’: Mumbai mayor’s warning on lockdown amid Covid-19 surgeGiving indications that Maharashtra might go into lockdown again, Mumbai’s mayor Kishori Pednekar appealed to the people to abide by all coronavirus related norms. Meanwhile, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar had stated that the state government would have to take more stringent measures as people were not following the protocol.3. KeralaIndia’s first-ever case of the coronavirus disease was reported in Kerala in January last year. In the initial months, the state had set an example for the entire country as it had managed to contain the spread of the Covid-19 outbreak. However, there has been a rise in the number of daily cases in Kerala with the Union health ministry adding that the situation is concerning as the state has been among the maximum contributors towards the country’s daily Covid-19 caseload.NITI Aayog member (health) VK Paul said on Tuesday that the number of RT-PCR tests had gone down in the state and there was a need to substantially increase them. “If we look at Kerala, the increase in the number of cases can be traced since the time of festivals,’” he added during the health ministry’s press briefing.However, the state government has maintained that the high number of infections has been a result of the robust surveillance and reporting mechanism. “The rise in the number of cases in the state is due to a robust surveillance and reporting system. We managed to delay the peak of the pandemic and upgraded the threshold of our health system,” state health minister KK Shailaja had said in January.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-fall-in-india-s-covid-19-cases-3-states-see-a-surge-101613488102031.html
16-02-2021||India||Government launches drinking water survey in 10 cities||The Union housing and urban affairs ministry on Tuesday launched a survey to collect data on drinking water in 10 cities under the Jal Jeevan Mission (Urban).As part of the survey, 'Pey Jal Survekshan', data will also be collected on wastewater management and condition of water bodies in the cities.In a statement, ministry secretary Durga Shanker Mishra said the mission will be monitored through a technology-based platform on which beneficiary response will be monitored."'Pey Jal Survekshan' will be conducted in cities to ascertain equitable distribution of water, reuse of wastewater and mapping of water bodies with respect to quantity and quality of water through a challenge process," Mishra said.As the first step, he said, the ministry has decided to launch a pilot 'Pey Jal Survekshan' in 10 cities -- Agra, Badlapur, Bhubaneswar, Churu, Kochi, Madurai, Patiala, Rohtak, Surat and Tumkur.According to the secretary, based on the learnings of the pilot survey, this exercise will be extended to all Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) cities."Data on drinking water, wastewater management, non-revenue water and condition of three water bodies in the city will be collected through face-to-face interviews with citizens and municipal officials as per the approved questionnaire, on-call interviews, water sample collection and laboratory testing, and field survey for non-revenue water," the ministry said.Jal Jeevan Mission (Urban) is designed to provide universal coverage of water supply to all households through functional taps in all 4,378 statutory towns, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/government-launches-drinking-water-survey-in-10-cities-101613486989871.html
16-02-2021||India||Jharkhand policeman killed in IED blast in Lohardaga during anti-Maoist ops||A member of a special action team (SAT) of the Jharkhand police was killed in the state’s Lohardaga district on Tuesday when an improvised explosive device (IED) suspected to be planted by the CPI (Maoists) went off during an offensive agaist the left-wing extremists in Dudru forest, police said.A joint team of SAT and Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) had launched an operation in the area following intelligence input about movement of Maoists there.The deceased who was identified as Duleshwar Prasad, hailed from Gumla district. The 31-year-old policeman who was badly injured, was taken to Ranchi by a chopper. But he succumbed to the injuries during treatment at a hospital.Later, the Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren paid homage to the slain policeman at the Jharkhand Armed Police (JAP) ground in Ranchi.“It is unfortunate to lose a brave soldier of Jharkhand. I offer my condolences over his death,” Soren said.The CM also sought details of the incident from director general of police Niraj Sinha.This is the second such incident in the region in a month. On January 16, one woman was killed and another severely injured in the bordering areas of Lohardaga-Latehar-Gumla district when an IED exploded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jharkhand-policeman-killed-in-ied-blast-in-lohardaga-during-anti-maoist-ops-101613486923757.html
16-02-2021||India||Karnataka imposes restrictions on travel from Kerala amid Covid spike in B'luru||The Karnataka government has imposed restrictions of travel on those coming from neighbouring Kerala after two Covid-19 clusters were reported in the city.One of the clusters was reported in nursing college, which had 70 per cent of its students from Kerala, this is said to have resulted in the new clustersThe Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) is on its toes after 42 students from nursing college in RT Nagar and 103 residents of an apartment in Bommanhalli tested positive. This comes as the city was witnessing a decline in the number of cases reported per dayWhile on Monday, BBMP has called the two clusters ‘isolated incidents’ by Tuesday the civic authority made an RT-PCR negative certificate mandatory from anyone coming from Kerala and held a meeting with city's residents' welfare associations (RWAs).New Restrictions“All those arriving from Kerala and checking into hotels, resorts, hostels, homestays, dormitories, etc. shall compulsorily produce a negative RT-PCR certificate that is not older than 72 hours. Owners of the above-mentioned places should ensure that the occupants produce a negative RT-PCR certificate,” read the latest circular from the Karnataka government.It further added that those who have arrived from Kerala in the past two weeks in Karnataka shall compulsorily be subjected to RT- PCR test.“The students from Kerala who reside in the hostels shall avoid frequently travelling to their native place unless it is strongly justified. Such students returning from Kerala shall bring a negative RT-PCR test report that is not more than 72 hours old. The employees from working in multi-national companies, Hotels, resorts, Lodges, homestays in Karnataka, should get the RT PCR test done at their own cost,” the circular added.Apart from these restrictions, the government has decided to declare any hostels, boarding or residential ,educational institutions with a cluster of five or more cases, a containment zone.Residents should not be allowed to have visitors or relatives on campus in educational institutes without obtaining permission from the Covid nodal officers and a list of students travelling to and from Kerala to hostels and colleges should be maintained by a competent authority, read the circular.New ClustersAfter a long gap of four months, a cluster was reported in Bengaluru. 42 students of Manjushree College of nursing in RT Nagar tested positive for the virus on Saturday. Eighteen students from this college have been admitted to Victoria Hospital for treatment, while the remaining students have been asked to self-isolate in the hostel.A day after that BBMP commissioner N Manjunatha Prasad visited the college and ordered that the campus be sealed.The BBMP commissioner said in the second cluster in SNN Raj Lake View apartment, the number of cases shot up to 103 on Tuesday. “We tested 1,058 residents of the apartment complex and 103 have tested positive. Ninety of these patients are over 60 years of age. However, many of them are asymptomatic, they are constantly monitored, and necessary medical care is being provided,” said Prasad.According to him, a function held in the apartment’s clubhouse was a catalyst in the spike. He said the event acted as a ‘super spreader’. He said that six BBMP teams have been deployed in the apartment complex to test the remaining residents.“There is a concern, but no panic. We will get over this,” he said.Prasad spoke with RWAs in the city via video conferencing on Tuesday morning. He said that the emergence of the clusters is a wakeup call for Bengaluru.During the meeting, he appealed to the RWAs to act as a watchdog for the BBMP to keep a check on all those with Covid-like symptoms.The civic agency chief also asked apartment residents not to organise any closed-door functions because an infected person could be a super spreader in case a function is organised in an air-conditioned environment. In case of open-air events, social distancing and masks should be mandatory, he added.“Bengaluru has come a long way in the fight against Covid by bringing the numbers from 6,000 cases per day to 100-200 cases per day. We want to contain any further spread. He said there is no need for panic,” he said.He also asked apartments to regulate outsiders coming into buildings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-imposes-restrictions-on-travel-from-kerala-amid-covid-spike-in-bluru-101613485157152.html
16-02-2021||India||ED attaches properties worth ₹17.66 crore of Amnesty International India||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) said on Tuesday it has attached movable properties worth ₹17.66 crore of human rights organisation Amnesty International India and as trust connected with it in connection with an alleged violation of the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA). In a statement, the central agency said that the total attachments in the case stand at ₹19.54 crore.Also Read | Amnesty’s exit erodes Indian democracy“Directorate of Enforcement (ED) issued a Provisional Attachment Order under Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 (PMLA) attaching bank accounts of M/s Amnesty International India Pvt. Ltd. (AIIPL) and M/s Indians for Amnesty International Trust (IAIT) as both the entities have acquired the proceeds of crime and layered the same in the form of various movable properties. The said Provisional Attachment Order involves attachment of movable properties worth ₹17.66 crores being proceeds of crime,” ED said in an official statement on Tuesday.Also Read | New FCRA rules: Small NGOs will be hit hard“It is prima facie found that M/s Amnesty International India Pvt. Ltd. and others have obtained foreign remittances to the tune of Rs. 51.72 Crores in the guise Export of services and Foreign Direct Investments from M/s. Amnesty International (UK) whose source is the donations from the individual donors,” the statement further noted.Amnesty International India, which has been under investigation since October 2018, had on September 29, 2020, shut its operations in the country alleging ‘continuous harassment’ by government agencies. In October 2018, ED had raided the NGO’s head office in Bengaluru and frozen its accounts due to which it had to let go of some staff at the time.Also Read | Amnesty International says work in India halted after govt freezes bank accountsIn early 2019, Amnesty International’s India chapter received a notice from the income tax (IT) department, seeking ‘clarifications.’ Then, in November that year, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) also filed a case against it, accusing it of receiving ₹36 crore in funding without mandatory permission required under FCRA and raided its offices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-attaches-properties-worth-rs-17-66-cr-of-amnesty-india-others-101613483933122.html
16-02-2021||India||Foreign envoys to visit Jammu and Kashmir tomorrow: All you need to know||A batch of foreign envoys from Europe and Africa will visit Jammu and Kashmir on Wednesday to meet top officials and politicians in the Union territory to witness the government’s efforts to restore normalcy in the Valley after it revoked the erstwhile state’s special status and split it into two Union territories.The visit helmed by the ministry of external affairs will include a group of ambassadors and senior diplomats, mainly from European countries, to the Kashmir Valley and Jammu. This is the third such visit conducted by India for foreign envoys and the international community to assess the ground situation following the revocation of the region’s special status in 2019.Also read: After envoys’ visit to Kashmir, India needs more diplomacy | OpinionHere is everything you need to know about the visit by foreign envoys:Also read | Effort to mislead global community: Pakistan on visit of foreign envoys to J-K||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/foreign-envoys-to-visit-jammu-and-kashmir-tomorrow-all-you-need-to-know-101613479837043.html
16-02-2021||India||SC dismisses plea for return of MPLAD funds donated to PM CARES||The Supreme Court Tuesday dismissed a plea seeking direction to the Centre to return ₹365 crore donated by MPs from MPLADS fund to PM CARES Fund for tackling exigencies emerging from the Covid-19 pandemic.A bench of Chief Justice SA Bobde and Justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian said it is not inclined to entertain the petition and dismissed it.Advocate Dushyant Tiwari, appearing for petitioner Tushar Gupta, said that ₹365 crore were donated by lawmakers from Members of Parliament Local Area Development Scheme (MPLADS) in the PM CARES Fund, in contravention of the guidelines.Tiwari referred the RTI reply to buttress his claims and said that development work was hampered due to the diversion of the funds.The plea filed by Gupta sought appropriate direction to the central government to return the entire donated amount in the bank account in which MPLADS funds are transferred every year.The scheme's objective is to enable MPs to recommend developmental work "with emphasis on the creation of durable community assets based on the locally felt needs to be taken up in their Constituencies”, the plea said.It said that right from inception of the Scheme, durable assets of national priorities -- drinking water, primary education, public health, sanitation and roads -- are being created.“It is pertinent to note that in the month of March 2020, various MP’s have donated MPLAD Fund for the pandemic and as per information a total number of 339 MP’s have contributed a total of ₹365 crore from their MPLADS to the Central pool for measures towards tackling exigencies in India emerging from the effect of the pandemic,” the plea added.The petition said that in April 2020 the MPLADS funds were suspended for two financial years -- 2020-2021 and 2021-2022.Gupta referred to the RTI reply and said it raised few important questions and doubts related to the donation of the MPLAD Fund for the purpose of Covid-19.The plea sought direction to the MPs to re-prioritise the earlier recommended works so that the incomplete work can be completed from the un-utilised amount available with the district authority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-dismisses-plea-for-return-of-mplad-funds-donated-to-pm-cares-101613482941838.html
16-02-2021||India||MP: Flight makes emergency landing in Indore after windshield crack||An IndiGo airlines flight from Indore on Tuesday had to make an emergency landing at Devi Ahilyabai Holkar Airport here after a crack was detected in the windshield of the aircraft, an official said.The Chennai-bound flight with 100 passengers departed from the airport at 3.41 pm, and within four minutes the air traffic control (ATC) received a message from the aircraft about a crack in the windshield, airport director Aryama Sanyal said.At the time, the aircraft was 25 nautical miles away from Indore, the official said.Arrangements were subsequently made for an emergency landing and the flight landed safely at 4.03 pm, she said.An alternate aircraft is being arranged by the airline for Chennai-bound passengers from Indore, she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-flight-makes-emergency-landing-in-indore-after-windshield-crack-101613483520824.html
16-02-2021||India||Biplab Deb's 'BJP in Nepal' comment upsets Kathmandu, draws 'formal objection'||Nepal has conveyed its “formal objection” to India over Tripura chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb’s remarks about expanding the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) influence to Sri Lanka and Nepal and forming governments there.Deb, who is no stranger to controversy, created a flutter when he told an event held in Agartala on February 13 that Union home minister Amit Shah had purportedly talked about plans to expand the BJP's influence in neighbouring countries.Responding to a tweet from a Nepalese citizen on Deb’s comments, Nepal’s foreign minister Pradeep Gyawali said on Tuesday, “Noted. Formal objection has been already conveyed.” Gyawali didn’t give details.People familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity that Nepal’s ambassador in New Delhi, Nilamber Acharya, had spoken on phone with Arindam Bagchi, joint secretary (North) in the external affairs ministry, to convey Nepal’s reservations over the chief minister’s remarks and to seek clarification. Bagchi is responsible for relations with Nepal and Bhutan.Also read: 'Mumbai might head towards lockdown if Covid-19 norms not followed' - MayorThere was no immediate response from Indian officials on the matter. The external affairs ministry has not made any comment so far on the chief minister’s remarks.While addressing the event in Agartala, Deb had referred to comments purportedly made by Shah during a visit to Tripura some time ago when he was the BJP president.Video footage of the event showed Deb, who spoke in a mix of Bengali and Hindi, saying, “We were talking during a meeting at the state guest house when Ajay Jamwal (BJP's zonal secretary for the northeast) said the BJP was in a good position as it was in power in many states. In reply, Amit Shah said Sri Lanka and Nepal are still left. We have to take the party there and win there as well.”Deb also spoke of purported plans to take the BJP to the “whole world”.The chief minister’s remarks came against the backdrop of efforts by India and Nepal to mend ties that were hit by a border row last year. Nepal was irked when India opened a strategic road to Lipulekh on the border with China – a region claimed by Kathmandu. It responded by issuing a new map that showed the areas of Lipulekh, Kalapani and Limpiyadhura, all within India, as Nepalese territories.Back-to-back visits to Nepal by the Research and Analysis Wing and Indian Army chiefs and foreign secretary Harsh Shringla helped put ties back on an even keel. Foreign minister Gyawali travelled to New Delhi last month to co-chair a meeting of the bilateral joint commission with external affairs minister S Jaishankar.The people cited above said both sides are keen on ensuring that the controversy over Deb’s remarks does not assume larger dimensions.Deb’s remarks have also been widely reported in Sri Lanka though there has been no formal comment from Colombo so far.Following criticism of Deb’s comments, the BJP said it has been spreading Indian culture and philosophy in different countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/biplab-deb-s-bjp-in-nepal-comment-upsets-kathmandu-draws-formal-objection-101613483333161.html
16-02-2021||India||India set to clear some new investment proposals from China in coming weeks: Report||India is poised to clear some new investment proposals from China in the coming weeks as frosty relations between the two neighbouring countries thawed amid an easing in border tensions, said three government officials with knowledge of the matter.Last week, India and China began disengagement from the Pangong Tso area, in the Ladakh region of the western Himalayas, following a nearly nine-month-long standoff after the worst clash between the neighbouring countries since 1962.At the height of the tensions, India framed various policies targeting China, including blocking the nation from participating in government tenders, compelling any Chinese company investing in India to seek approvals and banning dozens of Chinese apps.The foreign investment rule change by the Indian government said investments from an entity in a country that shares a land border with India would require government approval, markedly slowing investments flows from China.Watch: Indian & Chinese troops disengage from Pangong lake area in LadakhThe rule change had put in limbo over 150 proposals from China worth more than $2 billion, hurting the plans of Chinese companies in India.Among the proposals delayed was China's Great Wall Motors' acquisition of a General Motors' plant in India."We'll start giving approvals to some greenfield investment proposals, but we will only clear those sectors which are not sensitive to national security," one of the officials said.The officials, who asked not to be named as the discussions are private, did not give details of the proposals they plan to clear in the coming weeks.The prime minister's office did not immediately respond to an email seeking comments, while the home ministry did not respond to an email, call or message.The government will also look to clear some other brownfield projects - new investments in existing projects - that are not a risk to national security after the first round of clearance to new investments, the above officials said.The government is also considering allowing some investment from Chinese firms in certain sectors via the "automatic" route, or without government scrutiny, said the officials.The officials said investments for stakes of up to 20%, in "non-sensitive" sectors, may revert to the automatic route for nations with which India shares land borders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-set-to-clear-some-investment-proposals-from-china-in-coming-weeks-report-101613482640878.html
16-02-2021||India||Congress to build anti-CAA movement memorial if voted to power in Assam||The opposition Congress in Assam has promised to build a memorial for the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) protests that rocked the state in December 2019, if voted to power in the coming assembly polls.Five persons were killed in police firing in Assam during violent protests against the legislation that seeks to grant Indian citizenship to religious minorities from Muslim-majority countries Bangladesh, Pakistan and Afghanistan.“In coming months, Guwahati will see a new landmark - a grand memorial in memory of the anti-CAA movement to be built by the incoming Congress government. This will be the state’s message to the ruling BJP. No CAA in Assam,” Congress state president Ripun Bora told journalists on Tuesday.Lok Sabha MP Pradyut Bordoloi said the memorial will highlight peoples’ struggles against the law.“After winning the election, we shall make a memorial for the anti-CAA peoples’ movement that has been going on in Assam for the last few years. It will highlight the peoples’ struggles, sacrifices, protests, songs and paintings which they expressed to oppose the legislation,” Bordoloi said in a statement.On Sunday, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said in Assam that the party will not allow the implementation of the CAA in the state at any cost if voted to power in the coming assembly polls due in April-May.Addressing a rally in Sivasagar, he said the legislation was a BJP ploy to divide the people of Assam.“We are wearing a ‘gamocha’ (traditional Assamese towel) today where letters CAA have been written and marked with a cross. It signifies that come what may, CAA won’t happen. Illegal immigration is an issue, but Assam’s people have the capability to resolve this problem together with talks,” Gandhi had said.There is fear among a large section of people in Assam that if the CAA is implemented it would lead to large scale influx of people from Bangladesh.Stressing that Congress will uphold and defend the Assam Accord (signed in 1985 after a six-year agitation against illegal immigrants from Bangladesh), Gandhi had said the BJP was trying to do away with the Accord, divide the state and implement CAA.The anti-CAA protests were spearheaded by several groups and led to the creation of two regional parties - Assam Jatiya Parishad and Raijor Dal - both of which have decided to contest the coming polls together.The Congress has formed a ‘grand alliance’ with All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF), Anchalik Gana Morcha and three Left parties. Despite Congress pleas for a joint front against BJP, both Assam Jatiya Parishad and Raijor Dal have refused to join hands with the alliance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-to-build-anti-caa-movement-memorial-if-voted-to-power-in-assam-101613482707995.html
16-02-2021||India||High court grants bail to cab driver arrested in Delhi riots case||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday granted bail to a cab driver who was arrested for allegedly hatching a conspiracy to incite the communal riots in north-east Delhi in February last year and in connection with the death of a police officer during the violence, observing that according to his call detail records (CDR) he was not even in the vicinity of the area where the incident occurred.The present case, the high court noted, pertained to the communal riots which erupted in north-east Delhi on February 24 last year when a police team deployed at an "illegal protest site" at Chandbagh there was "brutally attacked without provocation" and a Head Constable, Ratanlal, was shot dead while several other policemen, including a DCP, were grievously injured.The court said that according to the CDR of the accused cab drive -- Mohd Danish -- on the date of incident, February 24, 2020, "he was not even in the vicinity of the violence affected area i.e. Main Wazirabad Road".The court also noted that according to the CDR, no call was made by him to any of the other accused in the instant case. "Undisputedly, there is no CCTV footage or viral video to implicate the present petitioner (Danish)," Justice Suresh Kait observed and said, "In view of the facts discussed above and the facts that charge-sheet has already been filed, the petitioner is no more required for investigation and trial of the case shall take substantial time, I am of the view, the petitioner deserves bail." The court directed that he be released on bail on his furnishing a personal bond in the sum of ₹20,000 and with one surety in the like amount to the satisfaction of the trial court. It directed Danish not to influence the prosecution witnesses during the trial and disposed of his plea seeking bail in the case.The instant case relates to an FIR lodged under various provisions of the Indian Penal Code, including murder, criminal conspiracy, common intention, rioting, rioting with a weapon, disobeying prohibitory orders, inciting communal violence and causing hurt to a public servant during discharge of his duty, Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act and the Arms Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/high-court-grants-bail-to-cab-driver-arrested-in-delhi-riots-case-101613482625708.html
16-02-2021||India||Uttarakhand disaster: Challenges, progress during rescue operation||More than a week after the flash floods hit Uttarakhand’s Chamoli district, rescuers have been pulling out bodies from the muck-filled power project tunnel even as authorities are looking for the missing people. The death toll on Tuesday rose to 58, out of which 11 bodies have been recovered from a tunnel of NTPC's Tapovan-Vishnugad hydropower plant.On February 7, a glacier burst in the Tapovan-Raini area in Chamoli, triggering massive flooding in the Dhauliganga and Alaknanda rivers. Hundreds of people went missing after the floods and many houses were damaged along with the Tapovan-Vishnugad hydropower plant and the under-construction Rishiganga Hydel Project.Also Read | Amid rescue ops in Uttarakhand, identifying decomposed bodies a big challengeAll the 11 bodies retrieved from the 1.7 kilometre-long Tapovan tunnel till now have been identified, news agency ANI reported citing deputy inspector general of State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF) Ridhim Aggarwal on Tuesday. Officials have said 146 people are still missing.Multiple teams of SDRF, National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) and other agencies are carrying out search operations at Raini village and its nearby areas. Dog squads are also at the spot looking for missing people.Also Read | Portals of Badrinath shrine to open on May 18More than 300 personnel joined the operation on Tuesday as authorities stepped up the rescue operation. The list of personnel who are joining the operation includes engineers, officers, geologists, scientists, security personnel from NTPC, Tehri Hydro Development Corporation Limited (THDC), Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), Uttarakhand Purvsanik Kalyan Limited (UPNL) and others, ANI had reported.The rescuers have dug the main Tapovan tunnel up to 140 metres but are facing difficulties due to water percolation in the muck which has made the rescue operation more challenging. SDRF has also put an alarm system to detect the rise in the level of water. It will also alert the authorities in case the water level rises. "Tonnes of the debris is stuck inside the tunnel. There is a limitation to the amount of work that can be done," PK Tiwari, the commandant of NDRF, had said."Bodies are being recovered with caution so as to return them to their family members," Ujjwal Bhattacharya, NTPC’s hydropower project director, had earlier said, according to ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-disaster-challenges-progress-during-rescue-operation-101613481768697.html
16-02-2021||India||Vizag steel plant anti-privatisation protest pits YSR Congress against TDP||The agitation by the workers of the Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Ltd in Andhra Pradesh’s Visakhapatnam and citizens and politicians against the Central government’s decision to privatise it has now become a catalyst in the latest battle between the major opposition Telugu Desam Party and ruling YSR Congress party.TDP’s Visakhapatnam urban unit president Palla Srinivasa Rao, who has been on fast unto death since February 10 in protest against the privatisation, was forcibly shifted by the police to a private hospital on Tuesday morning, hours before TDP president and former chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu arrived in the city to express solidarity with the protesting workers of the steel plant.As the TDP leader’s fast evoked huge support from the steel plant workers and other opposition parties, the YSR Congress party announced a counter-agitation. Party general secretary and parliamentary party leader V Vijay Sai Reddy announced that he would take out a padayatra in the city on February 20 in protest against the privatisation of the steel plant.Reddy said he would walk for 22 km from Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation office to the steel plant gate at Kurnmanna Palem to highlight the issues of steel plant workers.He said he would take up the issue with the Centre and make all out efforts to see that the Visakhapatnam steel plant is not privatised.YSR Congress party president and chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy will be visiting Visakhapatnam on Wednesday to interact with the steel plant workers and extend his support to their cause.A YSRC leader familiar with the development said the chief minister was suspecting that the TDP was planning to create unrest in Visakhapatnam, at a time when the government was planning to shift the executive capital from Amaravati to Visakhapatnam.Early Tuesday morning, the Visakhapatnam police swooped down on the TDP office where Srinivas was on hunger strike, bundled him into a van and took him to the Krishna Institute of Medical Sciences at Sheelanagar where he was admitted.The TDP leader refused to take treatment and said he would continue with the fast on the hospital bed itself.In the afternoon, TDP president Chandrababu Naidu called on Srinivas in the hospital and extended all support from the party. “It was unfortunate that not a single minister has bothered to call on the fasting TDP leader and enquired about his health till now,” he said.Naidu demanded that the chief minister take the responsibility to lead the ongoing agitation for saving the prestigious Visakhapatnam Steel Plant from the threat of privatisation.He said Jagan should stop enacting dramas on the steel plant issue and take up the cause of thousands of workers. He alleged that YSRC leader Vijay Sai Reddy was trying to counsel the people stating that they should accept the reality about the privatisation of the steel plant.Describing the steel plant as the soul of Vizag, the TDP chief alleged that the YSRC leaders were hell bent on looting the 'soul' itself. “If Jagan has any love for Visakhapatnam, he should get the Obulapuram mines in Anantapur allotted for saving the Visakha Steel plant,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vizag-steel-plant-anti-privatisation-protest-pits-ysr-congress-against-tdp-101613480893263.html
16-02-2021||India||No new death in 17 states and UTs; No fresh Covid-19 case in 6 of them in 24 hrs||As many as 17 states and UTs have reported no Covid-19 death in the last 24 hours, while six of them have recorded no new case during the period, the Union Health Ministry said on Tuesday.The recoveries have surged to  1,06,33,025 with 11,805 more patients having recuperated in a day, and  India's Recovery Rate of 97.32 percent is amongst the highest in the world, it said in its update of cases till 8 AM.The difference between the recovered and active cases has further increased to 1,04,96,153, the ministry underlined.Also Read | Over 8.7 million people inoculated with Covid-19 vaccine: Govt"In another positive development, 31 states and UTs have reported a recovery rate of more than the national average. Daman and Diu and Dadra and Nagar Haveli have a recovery rate of 99.88 percent," the ministry said.Seventeen states and UTs reported no death in 24 hours. These are Lakshadweep, Sikkim, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Gujarat, Chandigarh, Jammu and Kashmir, Meghalaya, Ladakh, Manipur, Haryana, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Rajasthan, Nagaland, Tripura, Arunachal Pradesh and Daman and Diu (D&D) and Dadra and Nagar Haveli (D&N)."Also, six states and UTs have reported no new case in the last 24 hours. These are Sikkim, Meghalaya, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Nagaland, Tripura and D&D and D&N," the ministry stated.India's Covid-19 active cases dropped to 1.36 lakh and consist of just 1.25 percent of its total case tally.Till 8 AM on February 16, the cumulative number of healthcare (HCW) and frontline workers (FLW) vaccinated against Covid-19 in the country has surpassed 87 lakh.The Covid-19 vaccination drive was launched in India on January 16.As many as 87,20,822 beneficiaries have been vaccinated through 1,84,303 sessions, as per the provisional report till 8 AM. These include 61,07,120 HCWs (1st dose), 1,60,291 HCWs (2nd dose) and 24,53,411 FLWs (1st dose).Also Read | South African Covid variant detected in 4 returnees, Brazil variant in 1: ICMRTill day 31 of the vaccination drive (15th February 2021), a total of 4,35,527 beneficiaries were administered the vaccine. Out of which, 2,99,797 beneficiaries were vaccinated across 10,574 sessions for the first dose and 1,35,730 HCWs received the second dose of vaccine.A total of 9,121 new cases were recorded in 24 hours of which 80.54 percent of the new cases are from five states, the ministry said.Maharashtra reported the highest daily new cases at 3,365. It is followed by Kerala with 2,884, while Tamil Nadu reported 455 new cases.The ministry said 81 deaths were recorded during the period, and five states account for 70.37 percent of them.Maharashtra saw the maximum casualties (23). Kerala follows with 13 deaths and Punjab has reported 10 new deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-new-death-in-17-states-and-uts-no-fresh-covid-19-case-in-6-of-them-in-24-hrs-101613478994285.html
16-02-2021||India||'Agitating farmers illegally tapping electricity, damaging roads': NHAI||The National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) has accused the agitating farmers of illegally tapping electricity from its streetlight connection to run their gadgets and appliances, including washing machines, heaters and TVs, besides damaging the road at the Ghazipur border on the under-construction Delhi-Meerut Expressway.The NHAI has urged the Uttar Pradesh government to get the road cleared in keeping with the terms and conditions of the State Support Agreement (SSA), which provides that barring reasons related to emergency, national security and law and order, no government agency or private individual will disrupt the highway project.The NHAI charges come amid the announcement by Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait that he would set up an air-conditioned office at the protest site, giving indications about the agitators readying for a long haul.Tikait, who has been sitting on the UP-Delhi border with thousands of his supporters for more than two months now, is also a member of the State Advisory Committee (SAC) under the UP Electricity Regulatory Commission (UPERC).The NHAI claims to have written several letters to authorities since December 16, 2020, bringing the issue to their notice and urging them to get the site vacated so that the expressway project could be completed as per the fixed timeline.“We have been regularly writing to the authorities for over two months now about the farmers having illegally occupied the expressway, stealing electricity from our street lights, damaging the road, etc. We have urged them to get the place vacated, but in vain,” said project director Mudit Garg.Also read: January meeting could have provoked PM Modi’s swipe at the IAS-led ‘babus’The state government, he argued, must order the site to be cleared as per the SSA entered into with it on May 5, 2015.One of the letters written by Garg to the Ghaziabad district magistrate, with a copy marked to UP’s chief secretary and regional officer, NHAI, on January 28, stated, “Farmers are making unauthorised use of the project’s streetlights for various purposes and things such as washing machines, heaters, tent lighting, mobile charging points etc.”“Tapping supply illegally from the streetlight,” he pointed in the letter, led to frequent damages of equipment like miniature circuit breakers (MCBs) etc, apart from causing fluctuations, damaging project’s high-quality streetlight lamps.The letter further said, “bitumen layer on around one-kilometre stretch from UP Gate/Delhi to Dasna had been completely burnt, because of farmers regularly burning bonfires on the dharna site. The road surface is in a very poor condition.”“Digging of roads to erect poles and put up tents and water flowing from the makeshift toilets set up on the site are also damaging the road,” the letter said.Garg said entry to the site has been completely blocked. “We do not know what is happening there on the project site. Protestors chased our men away when they managed to reach the place a few days ago,” he complained.Meanwhile, BKU state president Rajveer Singh Jadaun said, “We are not going to vacate the protest site, NHAI’s complaints notwithstanding, till the government withdraws the three laws.”“As for the charges about farmers stealing electricity from NHAI’s streetlight connection, our leader Rakesh Tikait has publicly said that government can always send its officials and give a separate power connection for the dharna site,” he added.UP Power Corporation Ltd (UPPCL) chief engineer, Ghaziabad zone, Pankaj Srivastav confirmed that farmers, or anyone else on their behalf, had neither taken a power connection for the protest site nor had anyone applied for one.“We are told that farmers are meeting their electricity requirements by tapping the streetlights line that is duly metered and causes no revenue loss to us,” he argued.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/agitating-farmers-illegally-tapping-electricity-damaging-roads-nhai-101613480585803.html
16-02-2021||India||Over 8.7 million people inoculated with Covid-19 vaccine: Govt||India has given more than 8.7 million people the vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) so far, the Union ministry of health and family welfare said on Tuesday. Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said many as 87,40,595 Covid-19 vaccine doses have been administered in the country till 1 pm, it said. Out of this, 85,69,917 people have received the first dose and 170,678 have been given the second dose of the jab, Bhushan said.As many as 70% of the registered healthcare workers have been administered with the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine in Rajasthan, Sikkim, Jharkhand, Mizoram, Kerala, Uttar Pradesh, Odisha, Himachal Pradesh, Tripura, Bihar and Chhattisgarh, Bhushan said during a press briefing. Eleven states and the Union territories, including Delhi, Punjab and Andhra Pradesh, have administered first Covid-19 dose to less than 50% of people, Bhushan added. Jharkhand, Gujarat, Odisha, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and three other states have reported frontline workers' vaccination coverage of over 40 per cent, he also said.Click here for complete Covud-19 coverageA massive vaccination drive is underway in India, during which authorities are inoculating millions of health workers and frontline workers in the first phase. The drugs regulatory body of India approved two vaccines. Pune-based Serum Institute of India is manufacturing the Covishield vaccine developed by AstraZeneca and Oxford University and Covaxin has been developed by Hyderabad's Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Medical Council of Research (ICMR) and National Institute of Virology.In the second phase of the drive, people older than 50 or deemed high-risk because of pre-existing medical conditions will be administered with the jab. The second phase could initiate as early as next month, Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan has said.Also Read | South African Covid variant detected in 4 returnees, Brazil variant in 1: ICMRIndia’s Covid-19 caseload continued to see a downward trend as the country reported 9,121 fresh infections in the last 24 hours. The number of active cases has now dropped to 136,000 lakh and consist of just 1.25 per cent of its total case tally. According to the health ministry, 17 states and Union territories reported no fresh fatalities in the last 24 hours. While six of them reported no fresh case of infection.These 17 states and UTs are Lakshadweep, Sikkim, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Gujarat, Chandigarh, Jammu and Kashmir, Meghalaya, Ladakh, Manipur, Haryana, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Rajasthan, Nagaland, Tripura, Arunachal Pradesh and Daman and Diu (D&D) and Dadra and Nagar Haveli (D&N). The six states and UTs with zero infection in the last 24 hours are Sikkim, Meghalaya, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Nagaland, Tripura and D&D and D&N, according to the health ministry’s bulletin.After the United States, India is the second worst-hit country by Covid-19. It is followed by Brazil with 9,866,710 cases and the United Kingdom with 4,059,696 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-8-7-million-people-inoculated-with-covid-19-vaccine-govt-101613480157548.html
16-02-2021||India||AAP govt helped farmers find an alternative to stubble burning: Arvind Kejriwal||On the completion of six years of the AAP government, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday mentioned one of its achievements: they helped farmers find an alternative to stubble burning to curb pollution."A year ago, people gave me a chance to serve again. Despite it being a difficult year, we worked together to battle the Covid-19 pandemic and still continue to do so. We also helped farmers find an alternative (Pusa Institute's Bio Decomposer Technique) to stubble burning to curb pollution," Kejriwal said.Also Read | No Covid-19 deaths in the Capital for second day in a weekThis statement by Delhi Chief Minister comes at a time when farmers continue to protest at Delhi borders against the recently passed farm laws by the Centre."Our government is for the two crore people of Delhi," said Kejriwal.In February 2020, the AAP nearly repeated its 2015 performance in the elections, sweeping the Assembly polls winning 62 seats in the 70-member Assembly, in the face of a high-voltage campaign by the BJP, which fielded a battery of Union Ministers and Chief Ministers in its electioneering spearheaded by Home Minister Amit Shah.Also Read | Around 43% in Delhi get second dose of Covid-19 vaccinesThe Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) marginally improved its previous tally and also increased its vote share. Congress could not win a single seat in the assembly election.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aap-govt-helped-farmers-find-an-alternative-to-stubble-burning-arvind-kejriwal-101613478625089.html
16-02-2021||India||Amid rescue ops in Uttarakhand, identifying decomposed bodies a big challenge||Even as rescuers continue to recover bodies of those who died in the flash flood in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli on February 7, identifying many of them has now emerged as a major challenge.The death toll now stands at 58 with 146 people still missing.The rescue workers especially from the Uttarakhand state disaster response force (SDRF) are recovering bodies of the missing people in the disaster each day.About 60-70 personnel of the state disaster response force (SDRF) are involved in the search for bodies. The personnel are braving deep slush and muddy waters to find the bodies in the Alaknanda river in districts of Chamoli, Tehri Garhwal, Pauri Garhwal and Rudraprayag.Of the 58 bodies, 48 have been recovered from Chamoli district, seven from Rudraprayag, two from Pauri Garhwal and one from Tehri Garhwal districts. Eleven of the bodies were recovered from the 1.7km long tunnel at the NTPC’s Tapovan project in Chamoli where a search and rescue operation is still on.Rescuers have been able to identify 31 of the 58 bodies recovered so far.SDRF inspector Praveen Alok, said, "The SDRF personnel are working tirelessly to find the bodies in the disaster site as well as the Alaknanda river facing difficulties like heavy muck and muddy water.""The two factors make it very difficult to spot bodies in a water body. The SDRF personnel are using binoculars to spot the bodies in the river and then drag them out from thick muck by walking into it. In some cases, they have to bring the body up to the road about one or one and a half km up," said Alok.He said most of the bodies found in the river are "swollen or missing some body parts which make it difficult to identify them."Rescuers are also finding severed limbs which are the most difficult to be identified. They have so far recovered at least 22 body parts from the Alaknanda river.Neeru Garg, deputy inspector general, Garhwal who is one of the officials monitoring the rescue operation said, "The police are collecting the DNA samples of all the bodies and body parts being recovered from the river.""As it is not easy to identify the bodies and body parts recovered, we are collecting their DNA samples to ascertain the identification. We are also collecting DNA samples of the family members of the missing people who have come to the disaster spot. DNA test is the ultimate and concrete way to ascertain the identification especially of the body parts," said Garg.The state police have also made a WhatsApp group with family members of the missing person as its members to help the police to identify the bodies.Nilesh Anand Bharne, deputy inspector general, (law & order) Uttarakhand police said, "We share the pictures of bodies focusing on their identity marks such as tattoos, jewellery or any other identity marks found with the bodies. It has helped us identify them."Bharne said, "Rescue workers had so far cremated 53 bodies and 20 human body parts complete with rituals and respect till Monday evening. Police have also registered 52 cases related to the missing people."“The rescue workers are working tirelessly to recover the remaining bodies. The family members can contact helpline numbers- 01372-251487 and 9084127503 for any queries or help,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-rescue-ops-in-uttarakhand-identifying-decomposed-bodies-a-big-challenge-101613478193998.html
16-02-2021||India||Toolkit case: Bombay HC grants transit anticipatory bail to Shantanu Muluk||The Aurangabad bench of Bombay High Court on Tuesday granted transit anticipatory bail to Shantanu Muluk, one of the three accused in the Google toolkit case, giving him protection from arrest by the Delhi Police.Muluk had moved court on Monday, hours after lawyer-activist Nikita Jacob, another accused in the case, too had filed an urgent transit in anticipatory bail plea in the court. The order on her plea is likely to be pronounced on Wednesday.Climate activist Disha Ravi, the third accused, is the only person to have been arrested in connection with the case thus far. Bengaluru-based Ravi was arrested by the Delhi Police last Saturday and was sent to five-day judicial custody.Also Read | Disha Ravi can get warm clothes, masks and books in police custody, says Delhi courtMuluk has been named by the police as the ‘owner’ of the toolkit document, while others have been named as ‘editors.’ Ravi and Jacob have also been accused of holding a Zoom call with Mo Dhaliwal, the founder of the pro-Khalistani Poetic Justice Foundation (PJF).Also Read | Disha Ravi, Nikita Jacob and Shantanu created toolkit, say Delhi PoliceEarlier this month, Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg had tweeted the toolkit, detailing ways to protest against the three contentious central farm laws, which have triggered massive protests by farmers in Delhi. She deleted the tweet and later uploaded an edited version following which a case was registered by the police.Thunberg is among a host of international celebrities to have raised their voices on the farmers’ movement. Barbadian pop star Rihanna and American lawyer Meena Harris, the niece of US vice president Kamala Harris, are among those who have spoken out on the issue globally.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/toolkit-case-aurangabad-bench-of-bombay-hc-grants-transit-anticipatory-bail-101613477506999.html
16-02-2021||India||Officials say prestigious projects under Srinagar Smart City near completion||The work on the Srinagar Smart city project that began in 2017 has started gradually picking up pace as officials say work on dozens of projects is underway and many prestigious projects are near completion across the city.On the ground, however, the projects are not visible yet and Srinagar city looks no different from what it used to be before. The much-hyped project was initiated by the Ministry of Urban Development Government.The loopholes got exposed this winter when few feet of snow left the entire city crippled as the lanes, bylanes and the interior roads remained blocked for many days."There is nothing smart about Srinagar. It continues to remain underdeveloped. Apart from a concrete flyover, nothing much has changed. In winter, the city gets enveloped in a chilling dark atmosphere. For weeks, the snow remained on roads, fields, lanes and bylanes even though authorities claimed many things on Twitter," said Wajhaat Ahmad, a city resident.Another resident, Pir Bashir, said the power is still supplied on an hourly basis. "We live in the city, still it doesn't look like any big city after dark. Our city cant match with other cities of the country as many parts get plunged into darkness after evening every day."Shoaib Ahmad, who runs a hotel in the old city, said that the city has many lakes and streams in the surrounding but 24-hour portable water supply is still a dream.Also read: January meeting could have provoked PM Modi’s swipe at the IAS-led ‘babus’"For years, we have been hearing of laying of underground wires, still the electric poles and the dangling wires on our roads resemble entangled looms. Nothing has changed in the old city despite claims that it would be decongested. The open drains are a constant eyesore besides being responsible for various infectious diseases."Officials, however, say once the projects get completed the city, which is summer capital of Jammu and Kashmir, will present a different look.Chief Executive Officer (CEO) SSCL (District Development Commissioner Srinagar) Shahid Iqbal Choudhary said that a host of new projects are being taken up and the work on 21 ongoing projects is under execution under the 140-crore smart city project. "A large number of projects have already been cleared and many are underway."Giving details of the ongoing projects, he said the projects include installation of street furniture and road signages across the city, development of green corridors, the establishment of hawker zones, development of parking spaces at Residency Road and underneath the JCRB flyover, development of cycle tracks, smart street lighting across the city, smart water metering, ICCC-Smart Data Center (for civic services, traffic management and disaster response integration)."The ongoing projects also include setting up of GIS (property development approval) system, grievance management emergency response system, Discover Srinagar One-Stop mobile application, development of bio-toilets at major nodes, upgrading of entire fire services apparatus of the city, installation of 10 new Variable Message Display panels and beautification of spaces underneath the JCRB flyover, among other ongoing projects under execution at an estimated cost of ₹140 crore."He said that the Grievance Management Cell (Community Engagement) will be inaugurated on February 20. "Work on the Smart Data Centre and the Integrated Command and Control Centre is going on in full swing and is expected to be completed soon. The deadline for many projects is March 31.""Projects like smart water metering, intelligent traffic management system and development of parking spaces and hawker zones to decongest roads aimed at enabling smooth traffic movement in the city are underway. For the smart water meter, further funding of ₹50 crore is being made towards the project to cover the entire city (the funding will be in addition to ₹45 crore already provided to JSD for the project)."Choudhary said that another hawker zone will be established in the city soon. "The Srinagar Municipal Corporation (SMC) has been asked to submit a list of concerned hawkers."DC Srinagar said the projects proposed under consideration of the SSCL include community facilitation centres, libraries and gymnasiums at various places across the city, construction of cycle track with footpath and green belt from Bemina Bypass Chowk to Shalteng, equipment of old SMG and Sheikhbagh multilevel parking with smart facilities, development of transport nagar connected to fruit mandi on bypass, and upgrading of facilities at Parimpora Bus Stand, among others."Development of parks, parking slots, drinking water points and bio-toilets at identified spots around Dal and Nigeen lakes (proposed by the LAWDA); and development of water filtration plants, installation of real-time water quality monitoring systems for entire Srinagar and establishment of a helpdesk for water-related issues and e-billing facility".Choudhary said the new projects include a state-of-the-art lab for testing sludge parameters and solid waste and building material testing lab at Achen dumping site, recycling plant for polythene generated in the city and elsewhere, cycle sharing scheme, surveillance cameras, smart city fibre connectivity with ICCC and PCR, ICCC Building & Smart Parking Solution, RVMs, e-Governance Service as a centralised framework, and sludge digesters."Out of the total 50 schools identified to be developed as smart schools, 25 will be developed by the Education Department through R&B Department and 25 schools by the SMC. The district administration is also taking up 100 Anganwadi Centers in the city for modernisation under Smart City. The modernisation of these centres will be done on the lines of smart schools. Similarly, the primary healthcare infrastructure in the city will be modernised and process for the modernisation of several PHCs have been started."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/officials-say-prestigious-projects-under-srinagar-smart-city-near-completion-101613476000302.html
16-02-2021||India||Rajasthan police, ATS seize 7 kg heroin in Barmer, arrest suspected drug runner||A joint team of Rajasthan’s Anti Terrorist Squad (ATS) and the police seized a consignment of 7 kilogram of heroin from a man in a village along the border with Pakistan in Barmer district late Monday night.Preliminary investigation revealed that the consignment had been smuggled from across the border, the ATS said in a statement.The consignment was seized from an accused named Bacchu Khan in Ramjan Ki Gaffan village along the border with Pakistan. Officials said that the consignment was smuggled into India about four days ago. Bacchu Khan is a resident of Sheo in Barmer, police said.Khan was arrested when he was returning after taking delivery of the consignment from another man. The accused had reportedly demanded the consignment but sent another man to take delivery. The ATS and police are trying to find out the identity of the man who handed the consignment to Khan and the supplier from Pakistan. Khan is currently being interrogated.Police also said that during the past seven months two consignments of fake Indian currency with a face value of ₹12 lakhs were smuggled from Pakistan.In August last year, thr Border Security Force (BSF) shot dead a man who crossed the fence at the international border and entered India. Recently a man from Barmer district went to Pakistan by crossing the fence at the international border.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-police-ats-seize-7-kg-heroin-in-barmer-arrest-suspected-drug-runner-101613474933425.html
16-02-2021||India||Kerala’s Kudumbashree Mission helps women offset livelihood losses due to Covid-19||When homemaker Sajitha Ajith, 48, fell on hard times in Thiruvananthapuram as the demand for the cloth bags she stitched to supplement her five-member family’s meagre income dwindled with the Covid-19 lockdown forcing the closure of shops and businesses, Kerala’s poverty eradication Kudumbashree Mission stepped in to offer support. She said the Mission gave her a soft loan of ₹10,000 to buy a sewing machine and trained her in making masks that were in high demand to prevent the Covid-19 spread.“Now I make 250-300 masks daily and earn up to ₹800 daily. My children also help me. Demand for masks opened a new livelihood for us. Kudumbashree taught us how to change with times,” said Ajith, a school dropout and mother of three.Ajith is not alone. The Mission, which is also involved in running canteens, organic farming, stitching, packing, has helped many like her. Kudumbashree has 4.3 million members, who have made 7.9 million cotton masks, 10,000 litres of hand sanitisers, and thousands of face shields as they diversified to meet the demand for them generated because of the pandemic.Also Read | Covid-10: Kerala, Maharashtra remain cause of concern, says health ministryThe home-delivered subsidised food from Kudumbashree’s Janakeeya hotels was an instant hit. In cities like Ernakulam and Thrissur, it also started online a food delivery app.Mission officials said they procure cloth from wholesalers, cut them at a master unit and supply them for stitching with specifications. Most of the government agencies and hospitals buy these finished products in a packet of 10 masks for ₹180. The masks are the most sought after, say traders.Kudumbashree, which was set up in 1998, has opened many such venues for women, including access to credit through micro-finance and confidence to initiate and operate new group enterprises. “Recently, we modified a State Road Transport Corporation bus and converted it into a canteen at West Fort in the state capital. With a minimum sitting facility, we are doing a roaring business. The stamp of Kudumbashree attracts many,” K Shailaja, a member running the Kudumbashree Pink Cafe.The Mission spent ₹6 lakh in converting the old bus rented for ₹20,000 monthly and set up a kitchen inside. “For me, Kudumbashree is a symbol of purity and confidence,” said P K Dineshan, a jewellery firm employee as he was having his chicken biryani at the cafe.Kudumbashree Mission executive director S Harikishore said the members took the challenge head-on. “Besides creating opportunities for themselves in troubled times, they rose to the occasion upholding social responsibility. They played a key role during the pandemic. The [Mission] members’ commitment and hard work are key to its success.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/keralas-kudumbashree-mission-helps-women-offset-livelihood-losses-due-to-covid-101613474156456.html
16-02-2021||India||News updates from HT: Mumbai mayor warns of another lockdown amid surge in Covid-19 cases and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘In people’s hands’: Mumbai mayor’s warning on lockdown amid Covid-19 surgeAs cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) witnessed a fresh surge in Mumbai and Maharashtra, city mayor Kishori Pednekar on Tuesday urged people to take precautions and warned there would have to be another lockdown. Read moreTMC MLA in Bengal’s Malda accuses ex-minister, youth leader of vandalismA Trinamool Congress (TMC) legislator in Bengal’s Malda district has accused a former minister and a youth front leader of the party of vandalizing his home on Monday night prompting the police to start a probe. Read morePM announces ex-gratia of ₹2 lakh for MP’s Sidhi accident victims’ kinPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday approved an ex-gratia of ₹200,000 each for the families of those who lost their lives in the bus accident in Sidhi of Madhya Pradesh and ₹50,000 to those who were seriously injured, the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) said. Read moreWhat is India's rank in World Test Championship table after win over England in second Test?The race to reach the final of the World Test Championship is heating up England, India and Australia vie for a chance to play New Zealand at Lord's. The inaugural WTC will hold its final from June 18 to 22, with June 23 acting as a reserve day. Read moreSandeep Nahar was 'affected' by Sushant Singh Rajput's death, says Suchitra Pillai: 'Shocking he took the same step'Actor Suchitra Pillai, who worked with late actor Sandeep Nahar on the show Kehne Ko Humsafar Hai, has said that Sandeep was 'shocked' when actor Sushant Singh Rajput died by suicide in June 2020. Sandeep was found dead in his Goregaon apartment on Monday, hours after he posted a 'suicide note' video on Facebook. Read moreDisha Patani flaunts an enviable summer body, hits the pool in a hot pink bikiniCome summer and the craze to get back into shape follows but while the winter chills is still receeding, Bollywood diva Disha Patani made all jaws drop as she flaunted her enviable curves in a hot pink bikini while hitting the pool. Read morePriyanka Gandhi shares throwback pics from her pre-wedding ceremony on InstagramCongress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra recently took to Instagram to share throwback pictures from her pre-wedding ceremony. On February 18, 1997, she got married to businessman Robert Vadra. Read moreKabira Mobility launches KM 3000, KM 4000 electric bikes in IndiaGoa-based start-up Kabira Mobility has launched two new hi-speed electric 'Made in India' bikes - KM3000 and KM4000 in the market here. The KM 3000 has been priced at ₹1.26 lakh and the KM 4000 at ₹1.36 lakh (all prices - ex-showroom, Goa). Read moreWatch| ‘Those who invited foreign firms..’: PM Modi slams opposition on famers’ stir||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-mumbai-mayor-warns-of-another-lockdown-amid-surge-in-cases-101613472825047.html
16-02-2021||India||PM should order probe into corruption charges against Karnataka CM: Siddaramaiah||Former Karnataka chief minister and Leader of the Opposition in the state assembly, Siddaramaiah, on Tuesday said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi should order a probe into allegations of corruption against BS Yediyudappa and his family.“The PM should immediately order a probe by a sitting Supreme Court judge so that the people know the truth,” Siddaramaiah said. “The PM shouldn’t just say ‘Naa khaoonga, na khaane doonga’ and sit quietly,” he said.The statement by the senior Congress leader comes a day after BJP MLA Basanagouda Basavaraj Patil (Yatnal) made scathing remarks against Yediyurappa.Yatnal, one of the staunchest critics of Yediyurappa, has refused to dial down on his tirade against the chief minister and his family despite a show-cause notice issued by the BJP.He alleged that Yediyurappa and his family were involved in huge amounts of corruption. “Yediyurappa’s family have been taking bribes to sanction projects and transfer of officials and his son (Vijayendra) is behind all this,” he said. Vijayendra has been accused by others in the party for running a “parallel government”.Yatnal also said that Yediyurappa and Vijayendra play the Lingayat card only to their benefit.“Whenever Yediyurappa gets an indication from the top that there is a threat to his chair (position), he uses the Veerashaiva-Lingayat issue to his advantage. His son (Vijayendra) too does so on similar lines,” Yatnal had said.The developments are adding to the 77-year-old chief minister’s problems who has had to part the high office unceremoniously on his previous three stints.Also Read | Youth Congress polls tell story of internal dynamic in Karnataka CongressHis souring relations with the BJP central leadership have not helped. Yediyurappa’s fourth-term in office has been rattled by dissent within the party and his government that has been made worse by the Covid-19 pandemic. The health crisis has dealt a serious blow to Karnataka and its finances. With reductions in fund inflow from the Centre, Yediyurappa has barely been able to announce any new schemes or programmes due to the cash crunch.Even though Karnataka has been one of the highest revenue contributing states in the country, the Centre has not been able to transfer the benefit back to the southern state for flood relief or help its fledgling economy.Yatnal, among others, has used this opportunity to target the chief minister even as the Opposition remains a mute spectator.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pmshould-order-probe-into-corruption-charges-against-karnataka-cmsiddaramaiah-101613473496477.html
16-02-2021||India||Govt liberalises India’s geospatial sector. Here’s why||The Union ministry of science and technology has released a new policy for the geospatial sector in the country, a move aimed at liberalising geospatial services. Private companies can now conduct surveying and mapping without prior approvals and share the data for various everyday applications.What is geospatial data?Geospatial data represent objects on the surface of the earth, both natural and manmade. It can be both static, like the location of permanent structures, or dynamic like the ones used by food delivery apps to help users track their orders.Also Read: Centre deregulates geospatial data and map-making in IndiaWho controls India’s geospatial data?Currently, the geospatial sector in India is mostly under the control of the Centre and several central agencies like the Survey of India. The previous geospatial policy requires prior approval for collection, storage, use, sale, dissemination of geo-spatial data and mapping. Private companies need to go through a complicated system of approvals from different government departments as well as the defence and home ministries, making the entire process cumbersome. The old policy looked at geospatial data as important solely for defence purposes and therefore a strict restriction was necessary to protect internal security.What changes will the new policy bring?Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted on Monday that the new move will help bolster Indian start-ups, private and public sectors, and research institutes. He hashtagged one such tweet as Freedom2mapIndia, which is exactly what the new policy has the potential to usher in. Once the bureaucratic procedures required for mapping geospatial data are done away with, businesses heavily reliant on geospatial data for day to day operations, like e-commerce, will be able to use it for their concerns, which in turn will boost employment.The reforms will unlock tremendous opportunities for our country’s start-ups, private sector, public sector and research institutions to drive innovations and build scalable solutions. This will also generate employment and accelerate economic growth. #Freedom2MapIndia pic.twitter.com/OoN1rDTwoWThe government estimates that the new guidelines will boost the geospatial data sector to a value of ₹1 lakh crore by 2030, create jobs for 2.2 million people, and have a multifold impact on the economy.Infrastructural development too needs access to accurate geospatial data but if the task of mapping the entire country is left to the defence forces alone it can get overwhelming and marred by delays. The new policy, however, restricts terrestrial mapping and surveying to only Indian entities—both public and private. The data generated also needs to be owned and stored only in India, with foreign entities given permission to license it. This lines up with the vision of ‘Aatmanitbhar Bharat’.The government reportedly felt an urgent need to incentivise the geospatial sector for Indian companies through increasing investment from private players, hence the move to liberalise a potential industry that for years has been viewed as an integral part of the defence sector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-liberalises-india-s-geospatial-sector-here-s-why-101613471975343.html
16-02-2021||India||TMC MLA in Bengal’s Malda accuses ex-minister, youth leader of vandalism||A Trinamool Congress (TMC) legislator in Bengal’s Malda district has accused a former minister and a youth front leader of the party of vandalizing his home on Monday night prompting the police to start a probe.Nihar Ranjan Ghosh, TMC MLA from Englishbazar in a complaint to the police said more than 100 men owing allegiance to TMC district youth wing president Prasenjit Das and former minister Krishnendu Narayan Chowdhury barged into his home and vandalised his office. He alleged that the attackers were armed with iron rods and destroyed furniture at random.The incident which was captured by several security cameras also exposed the infighting in the ruling party in the region. Ghosh alleged that stones were hurled at him but he escaped unhurt.Officers from the Englishbazar police station rushed to the spot. “We have received a complaint and a probe is on,” an officer from the police station said on condition of anonymity.In 2016, Ghosh won the assembly seat as an independent candidate supported by the Congress and the Left Front alliance. Chowdhury resigned from the post of chairman of Englishbazar municipality after Ghosh joined the TMC and the latter was made the new chairman.“Chowdhury and Das led the attack. Their followers tried to kill me. The duo is trying to stop my political activities. The goons threw stones at me, ransacked my office and vandalized some two-wheelers parked outside the house. I am going to inform the state leadership,” Ghosh said.Das dismissed the allegation and said the violence was the fallout of a quarrel that took place in Ghosh’s neighbourhood.“On Monday morning, there was a quarrel between Chottu Saha, a local businessman, and Ghosh’s wife. Some followers of Ghosh allegedly thrashed Saha for quarreling with her,” said Das.“The businessman’s wife lodged a complaint at Englishbazar police station. In the evening, Ghosh was spotted with the youths who allegedly thrashed the businessman. This led to another quarrel. The allegation against me and Krishnendu Narayan Chowdhury is completely baseless,” said Das.TMC’s Malda district unit president Mausam Noor said, “I am in Delhi but I have heard everything. Top leaders of our party have been informed. They will take action.”Chowdhury was not available for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmc-mla-in-bengal-s-malda-accuses-ex-minister-youth-leader-of-vandalism-101613472068745.html
16-02-2021||India||Rising cases of Covid-19 in Kerala, Maharashtra cause of concern: Govt||The Union health ministry said on Tuesday the situation in Kerala and Maharashtra, which have reported a rising number of cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), has been a cause of concern."Kerala and Maharashtra with 61,550 and 37,383 active cases respectively account for 72% of the total active cases in the country," Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said.Stating India's trajectory, Bhushan said that the country has reported 56 new cases of the coronavirus disease per million population in the last seven days.Also read: South African Covid-19 variant detected in 4 returnees, ICMR DGThe official also said that 87,40,595 Covid-19 vaccine doses have been administered to people across the country till 1pm on Tuesday, with 85,69,917 getting the first dose and 170,678 given the second one."Rajasthan, Sikkim, Jharkhand, Mizoram, Kerala, Uttar Pradesh, Odisha, Himachal Pradesh, Tripura, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, MP, Uttarakhand, Lakshwadweep and Tripura have administered the first doses of the vaccine to more than 70% of the registered healthcare workers," Bhushan said.He added that Ladakh, Jharkhand, Assam, UP, Telangana, Tripura, Gujarat and Goa have administered the second dose to more than 60% of the eligible healthcare workers.The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said that number of people infected by the UK variant of Covid-19 has risen to 187. "Today we have 187 UK variant patients. All confirmed cases are quarantined and treated. Their contacts have been isolated and tested. The neutralisation potential with the UK variant of the virus is there with the vaccine that we have," Dr Balram Bhargava, ICMR chief, said during the same briefing.Also read: What led to a dramatic fall in Covid-19 cases in India? Experts debateThey have also detected the South African Covid-19 strain in four returnees in January, Bhargava said, adding that ICMR-NIV is attempting to isolate and culture this variant of SARS-CoV-2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-kerala-maharashtra-remain-cause-of-concern-says-health-ministry-101613471853926.html
16-02-2021||India||PM Modi meets COP26 President, discuss India-UK cooperation on climate change||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday met Alok Sharma, President of the 26th United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP26) and held discussions on India-UK cooperation on climate change agenda and upcoming COP26."PM @narendramodi met COP26 President-designate @AlokSharma_RDG today. Discussions on India-UK cooperation on climate change agenda and COP26 were held. PM @narendramodi conveyed best wishes to the UK for the successful organisation of the climate summit," Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said in a tweeted.Earlier today, Union Minister of Environment, Forest and Climate Change, Prakash Javadekar also met Alok Sharma and discussed important issues, for negotiations to be held in Glasgow later this year."I showcased him and told about various initiatives taken by India on renewables, disaster-resilient infrastructure, adaptation, electrical buses, on metro expansion, our reduction of emission intensity and increasing tree cover. It was a very fruitful meeting," said Javadekar."Glasgow will host COP26, he (Alok Sharma) is meeting various leaders & discussing with them to arrive at landing zones. We discussed all issues which are contemporary and important issues for negotiations in Glasgow," the Minister added.After meeting Javadekar, Alok Sharma tweeted: "Wonderful to meet my friend Prakash Javadekar at the hugely innovative Paryavaran Bhawan, India's pioneering example of NetZero architecture A great place to discuss all things COP26."During his visit, Sharma met senior ministers, as well as leaders from business and civil society to discuss strengthening the UK-India climate partnership and preparing for a successful COP26 summit later this year, according to a statement from the British High Commission in New Delhi.This is Sharma's first visit to Asia as COP President, where he is expected to welcome India's significant progress on climate action and clean energy transition.Sharma's visit follows those of the UK Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab and International Trade Secretary Elizabeth Truss and paves the way for British Prime Minister Boris Johnson's visit later this year, during which climate cooperation will be a focus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-meets-cop26-president-discuss-india-uk-cooperation-on-climate-change-101613469821763.html
16-02-2021||India||Hundreds of Indians en route to Saudi Arabia, Kuwait stranded in UAE||Hundreds of Indian workers en route to Saudi Arabia and Kuwait have been stranded in the United Arab Emirates (UAE) after the other two countries tightened Covid-19-related travel restrictions, with many reluctant to avail of free tickets to return home. The UAE is the key transit point for Indian workers travelling to several West Asian countries and the Dubai airport handled 4.3 million Indian passengers last year, a majority of them travelling to or from Mumbai and New Delhi. The Indian workers were stranded in the UAE after Kuwait banned the entry of non-citizens for two weeks from February 7, and Saudi Arabia suspended the entry of people travelling from 20 countries, including India, on February 4. The move followed a rise in the number of new Covid-19 cases in both countries. Last week, the Indian embassy in Abu Dhabi advised Indian citizens not to travel to Saudi Arabia and Kuwait via the UAE, and also asked travellers stranded in the UAE to return home. On Tuesday, minister of state for external affairs V Muraleedharan said stranded Indians in need of help should approach Indian missions in the UAE. “Stranded Indian nationals on their way to Saudi Arabia and Kuwait via UAE who may require assistance for repatriation to India are advised to contact our Consulate in Dubai or Embassy at Abu Dhabi,” he tweeted. Though there are no official figures for the number of stranded Indians, the Gulf News newspaper reported that Indian community groups have “recorded the appeal for support from more than 1,000 stranded passengers, most of whom hail from Kerala”. A majority of the stranded passengers were headed to Saudi Arabia. Saji Cheriyan, a leading member of the Indian community, said he had offered shelter in Fujairah to around 400 stranded blue-collar workers, some of whom had been stuck for more than 10 days. An online campaign has been launched to seek support for people from Karnataka stuck in Dubai, the report said. The Indian consulate in Dubai told Gulf News that free tickets would be offered to those who can’t afford to buy them, using funds from the Indian Community Welfare Fund. However, the mission received less than 50 requests for free tickets till Monday. “Many of them don’t want to leave as they somehow want to proceed to their country of residence as soon as the travel restrictions are lifted. Some are also happy and thankful that their [UAE] tourist visas have been extended till March 31,” Cheriyan said. A large number of Indian workers employed in West Asian countries, who came home amid the pandemic last year, have begun returning after the easing of Covid-19-related travel restrictions. Many Indian workers have been going back to Saudi Arabia to renew their “iqama” or residence permits. The Indian government too has reached out to West Asian countries to ease restrictions and facilitate the return of Indian workers. West Asia is home to nearly nine million Indians, one of the largest concentrations of the diaspora, and Saudi Arabia and the UAE account for close to six million Indians.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hundreds-of-indians-en-route-to-saudi-arabia-kuwait-stranded-in-uae-101613470316492.html
16-02-2021||India||Chennai Muslim businessman donates ₹1 lakh for Ayodhya Ram Temple||In a gesture aimed at communal amity, a Muslim businessman from the city has donated ₹1 lakh towards the construction of the Ram Temple at Ayodhya, as voluntary contribution from devotees in Tamil Nadu for the shrine in Uttar Pradesh has been growing.Daily wage earners like cobblers and small traders are among those making contributions to help raise the proposed magnificent structure.With the Shri Ram Janmbhoomi Teerth Kshetra (SRJTK), set up by the Centre to construct the temple, coming out with donation coupons of ₹10, 100 and 1,000, a large number of people came forward to donate, said S V Srinivasan, VHP state organising secretary who is involved in raising funds for the temple."All those whom we approached have been generous in donating for the noble cause," he added. And when the members of the Hindu Munnani, accompaniedby the volunteers from the SRJTK approached him, W S Habib gifted a cheque for ₹1,00,008, taking the fund raisers by surprise."I want to foster communal amity between Muslims and Hindus. We are all children of god. I donated the sum with this belief," Habib, a property developer, told PTI.He said he was pained to see Muslims being painted as anti-Hindus or anti-India by some sections.Pointing out that there was nothing wrong in donating for a good cause, Habib remarked, "I wouldnt have donated to any other temple but the Ram temple is different as decades-old Ayodhya dispute came to an end."The Hindu Munnani, which is also involved in the campaign, said road shows are being held in various parts of the state to raise funds."All those whom we approached willingly donated. A gentleman who suddenly emerged from the crowd presented a cheque for ₹50,000.The response from Ram bhakts is overwhelming," A T Elangovan, Hindu Munnani's Chennai president, said.According to K E Srinivasan, Chennai organiser of Dharma Jagran Manch a wing of RSS not only the affluent in the society but also the poor contributed."At Perambur, for instance, cobblers and other sections came forward to donate ₹10," he said.At Kodungaiyur when the members solicited funds for the temple construction, shop keepers contributed their mite.An enthusiastic seller of vermilion (kumkum) near a temple, who happened to be a Muslim, gave ₹200 for the cause.The Kanchi Kamakoti Peetam has already appealed to the devotees to donate liberally.Janakalyan, a spiritual and cultural service organisation, is utilising its office with several prominent personalities to contribute towards the initiative, its city secretary V Subramanian said.The Supreme Court in November 2019 settled the decades-old dispute and paved the way for the construction of a Ram Temple by a Trust at the disputed site at Ayodhya.It had then directed the Centre to allot an alternative 5-acre plot to the Sunni Waqf Board for building a new mosque at a "prominent" place in the holy town in UP.Prime Minister Narendra Modi had on August 5, 2020 laid the foundation stone for the construction of a grand temple at Ayodhya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chennai-muslim-businessman-donates-rs-1-lakh-for-ayodhya-ram-temple-101613469597992.html
16-02-2021||India||In Pictures: Army shares pictures of PLA’s disengagement process at Eastern Ladakh||The Northern Command of the Indian Army on Tuesday shared pictures of the disengagement process in the south bank of Pangong Tso lake in Ladakh. The pictures and snapshots taken from videos shared by the Indian Army show PLA soldiers dismantling camps which were erected across the banks of the lake.Also Read| Disengagement in eastern Ladakh’s Pangong Tso in full swing, may be over soonThe Army shared pictures of tanks and convoys of light armored vehicles moving with soldiers and equipment towards the rear areas as part of the disengagement process. Large number of Chinese tanks can be seen moving away from the south bank of the Pangong Tso lake.These tanks were deployed at the banks of the lake ten months ago as tensions erupted between both nations after Chinese forces built structures in the area triggering a strong reaction from the India.Also Read| ‘Disengagement an intricate process, needs constant verification’: ArmyThe Indian Army also shared videos where the PLA can be seen razing structures built along the banks of the Pangong Tso lake. PLA cranes can be seen razing structures and restoring the south bank of the Pangong Tso lake as PLA soldiers oversee the disengagement process.A picture shared by the Indian Army also showed Chinese soldiers removing a generator or a motor after dismantling a camp and dish antenna can also be seen lying in the ground beside the camp.Also Read| Pangong Tso disengagement accord reduces military friction at Naku LaPictures also show PLA soldiers dismantling their bunkers which were built along the South Bank of the Pangong Tso lake. Chinese PLA soldiers can be seen folding corrugated sheets meant to cover the bunkers and protect the soldiers from the extreme cold.Also Read| Pangong Tso disengagement to be completed by next Friday, PLA forces seen moving beyond finger 8PLA soldiers were also seen moving with their heavy loads towards light armored vehicles in pictures shared by the Northern Command of the Indian Army.People familiar with the developments told Hindustan Times on Monday that the disengagement process in eastern Ladakh’s Pangong Tso area is scheduled to end at the end of this week. The disengagement process began on December 10.(with inputs from Rahul Singh)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-pictures-indian-army-shares-pictures-of-pla-s-disengagement-process-at-eastern-ladakh-pangong-tso-galwan-valley-clashes-india-china-faceoff-101613468520035.html
16-02-2021||India||RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat visits actor Mithun Chakraborty, sparks off rumors ahead of Bengal polls||Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat met actor Mithun Chakraborty on Tuesday at his Mumbai residence. The meeting of the RSS chief at the actor's bungalow in the suburban Madh region of Malad West has flared up speculation of the actor's return to politics.The meeting between the actor and RSS chief comes ahead of the West Bengal assembly elections scheduled to take place in summer this year. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has time and again asserted that their face for the upcoming election will be a native of the eastern state only.Maharashtra: RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat meets actor Mithun Chakraborty at the latter's residence in Mumbai. Visuals from outside his residence. pic.twitter.com/U3LIkLG8TvHowever, as per media reports, Mithun has denied return to politics. He said Bhagwat had just made a friendly visit . The actor, who had earlier met Bhagwat in Lucknow, added that he shares a spiritual connection with the RSS head."I have a spiritual connection with Mohan Bhagwat. I had met him in Lucknow and later I had requested him to come to my home when he is in Mumbai," various reports quoted him as saying.Also Read | Told not to campaign when I pointed out corruption within TMC: TrivediThe Trinamool Congress (TMC) and BJP are in great rift ahead of the assembly election as the party at the Centre aims to gain its stronghold in the state that has been ruled by TMC for 10 years.The famous actor was earlier the Rajya Sabha Member of Parliament from TMC but had to resign in 2016 due to his health issues. Chakraborty is greatly reputed in the home state.Mohan Bhagwat and Mithun Chakraborty had met earlier too. The actor had met the RSS chief at Nagpur in October 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rss-chief-mohan-bhagwat-visits-actor-mithun-chakraborty-sparks-off-rumors-ahead-of-bengal-polls-101613466192621.html
16-02-2021||India||After 21.5% fall in 2020, Indian ad spends to rise 23% in 2021: Report||Advertising spends across media platforms in India will grow by 23.5 per cent in 2021 to ₹80,123 crore in 2021 after a sharp 21.5 per cent decline in the pandemic-hit 2020, a media buying agency estimated on Tuesday.Terming the estimates as “not optimistic, but realistic”, GroupM South Asia's chief executive Prasanth Kumar pointed out that they will still be lower as compared to the nearly ₹83,000 crore achieved in 2019.Weeks before the announcement of the pandemic, the agency had estimated a 10.7 per cent growth in ad spends for 2020 to ₹91,641 crore.India's rank slipped by one notch to being tenth in the overall ad spends across the world and the handsome growth in 2021 will help it regain the 9th spot, the agency said, adding that from a share in incremental spends, the country will be at the sixth spot.Unlike the global experience, where digital is gaining ground very fast, the ad spends in India will also have incremental spending happening on television, it said, adding that print media will also hold its 16 per cent share of the overall pie in 2021, he said.In India, digital will have a 40 per cent share in incremental ad spends as against the 90 per cent levels seen globally, it said.TV's share will slip marginally in the ad spends on the back of an 18 per cent growth, but the medium will continue to be at the numero uno spot with a 45 per cent share, it said, adding a 28 per cent growth will lead digital mediums to gobble up TV's share.When asked about the lack of measurement in certain genres within TV, Kumar said the TRPs played an important role and the absence of the data presented its own set of challenges. He added that once the system comes back, it will aid advertisers.Kumar said we have witnessed a month-on-month upturn in the industry starting from the July-September quarter last year, and the momentum will continue in 2021 with the gradual easement of the lockdown measures, seasonal spends and big-ticket events like IPL.The global ad spends are estimated to see a rise of 10 per cent in 2021 as per the agency's estimates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-21-5-fall-in-2020-indian-ad-spends-to-rise-23-in-2021-report-101613468649194.html
16-02-2021||India||Delhi women's panel sends notice to police over Disha Ravi’s arrest||The Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) has sent a notice to the deputy police commissioner of the cybercrime cell over climate activist Disha Ravi's arrest, news agency ANI reported on Tuesday. The commission has asked the Delhi Police to provide a copy of the first information of report (FIR), reasons for allegedly not producing Ravi before a local court for transit remand and detailed action taken report, the agency added.Delhi Police commissioner SN Srivastava, whose force is under a firestorm of criticism from opposition leaders and other activists, had said earlier in the day that all procedures were followed in Ravi’s arrest for her alleged involvement in preparing a toolkit that details support for farmers protesting against the Centre’s three farm laws."As far as Disha's arrest is concerned, it was done as per the procedures. The law does not differentiate between a 22-year-old and a 50-year-old. She was produced before a court which sent her to five-day police custody,” Srivastava told reporters.Also read | Delhi Police ask Zoom to share details of farm stir ‘toolkit’ meetingHe argued that it is incorrect to say that there were lapses in the arrest. The Delhi Police commissioner said that investigation into the ‘toolkit' document case is underway."I cannot divulge the details of the case as its investigation is premature. As things will be clear everyone will be notified." Srivastava said.A Delhi court on Sunday had remanded Disha to five days of police custody following her arrest from Bengaluru in connection with allegedly spreading a "toolkit" related to the farmers' protest. She was arrested last week. Delhi Police have said that Ravi is a key conspirator in the "toolkit" case as she had admitted during the initial interrogation to editing, adding some things in the online document and spreading it further.Also read | Toolkit case: Bail pleas of Nikita Jacob, Shantanu Muluk in Bombay HC todaySeveral political leaders have slammed the Delhi Police for Ravi’s arrest and said it was "unwarranted harassment, unfortunate and shocking".Congress leader P Chidambaram had said, "The Indian state must be standing on very shaky foundations if Disha Ravi, a 22-year-old student of Mount Carmel College and a climate activist, has become a threat to the nation."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-women-s-panel-sends-notice-to-police-over-disha-ravi-s-arrest-101613468765828.html
16-02-2021||India||40 killed, several missing: What do we know so far about the bus accident in Madhya Pradesh’s Sidhi||As many as 40 people lost their lives while several others are reported to be missing after a bus fell into a canal on Tuesday morning in Madhya Pradesh’s Sidhi district. The bus was travelling to the Satna district in the state when the accident occurred. The rescue operation is underway.Prime Minister Narendra Modi expressed his condolences and said that the local administration was actively involved in the rescue and relief work. Union home minister Amit Shah said that he spoke to Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan and all possible was being provided for the rescue operation.Here is what we know so far about the accident:1. The bus carrying more than 60 passengers met with the accident at around 8.30am as it fell off a bridge near Patna village in Sidhi district. All passengers were said to be local villagers.2. Umesh Joga, inspector general of police, Rewa Zone, informed that 40 people have died till now of which one succumbed in the hospital. Joga said the remaining bodies were recovered from the accident site.3. Teams of local police, the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) are conducting the rescue operations. News agency ANI reported that seven people have been rescued till now.4. Chief minister Chouhan called a meeting to discuss the situation and a team of two ministers will visit the accident site. Chouhan said that efforts were being made to remove the bus from the canal adding that he was in constant touch with the teams carrying out the rescue operation.5. Prime Minister Modi approved an ex-gratia of ₹200,000 each from the Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund for the families of those who died and said ₹50,000 would be provided to the seriously injured, according to a tweet by the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/40-killed-several-missing-what-do-we-know-so-far-about-the-accident-in-sidhi-101613467982081.html
16-02-2021||India||PM announces ex-gratia of ₹2 lakh for MP’s Sidhi accident victims’ kin||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday approved an ex-gratia of ₹200,000 each for the families of those who lost their lives in the bus accident in Sidhi of Madhya Pradesh and ₹50,000 to those who were seriously injured, the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) said.“PM @narendramodi has approved an ex-gratia of Rs. 2 lakh each from Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund for the next of kin of those who have lost their lives due to the bus accident in Sidhi, Madhya Pradesh. Rs. 50,000 would be given to those seriously injured,” the PMO tweetedPM @narendramodi has approved an ex-gratia of Rs. 2 lakh each from Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund for the next of kin of those who have lost their lives due to the bus accident in Sidhi, Madhya Pradesh. Rs. 50,000 would be given to those seriously injured.A bus carrying more than 60 passengers fell into a canal in Sidhi district on Tuesday morning. Forty people were reportedly killed in the accident and many have been reported missing. Police and a team of State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) are carrying out the rescue operations. The bus was headed to Satna from Sidhi and was said to be carrying local villagers when the accident occurred around 8:30am. News agency PTI reported that at least seven people were able to swim to safety after the bus fell into the canal.Also Read: MP: 40 passengers killed as bus falls into canal; search operation underwayPM Modi also condoled the deaths on Twitter, adding that the local administration is involved in rescue efforts. “Bus accident in MP’s Sidhi is horrific. Condolences to the bereaved families. The local administration is actively involved in rescue and relief work,” the PMO tweeted.Bus accident in MP’s Sidhi is horrific. Condolences to the bereaved families. The local administration is actively involved in rescue and relief work: PM @narendramodiThe Union home minister Amit Shah also took to Twitter to condole the deaths. He wished the injured a speedy recovery and assured local administration will be helping out in the rescue operations in every way possible."The bus accident in Madhya Pradesh's Sidhi district is very sad, I have spoken to the Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan. The local administration is providing all possible help for relief and rescue. I express my deepest condolences to the relatives of the dead and wish the injured to get well soon," Shah tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-announces-ex-gratia-of-rs-2-lakh-for-mp-s-sidhi-accident-victims-kin-101613467507465.html
16-02-2021||India||Farmers’ protest: India tries to dispel misgivings among British lawmakers||India on Tuesday sought to dispel misgivings among British lawmakers about the farmers’ protest and the government’s willingness to address all concerns, even as it contended that “vested interests” abroad were trying to fuel the agitation through misinformation.The Indian government’s views were reflected in an open letter issued by the Indian high commission in London to British MP Claudia Webbe, who has repeatedly raised the handling of the farmers’ protest by New Delhi in the UK Parliament and outside. Webbe is the MP from Leicester East, which has one of the largest percentages of people of Indian-origin.The Indian mission said the information about the farmers’ protest was being shared with Webbe to “dispel any misgivings with regard to the objectives of the reforms, the ability of those having reservations to protest peacefully and the willingness of the Government of India to address all concerns in a manner most acceptable to the protesting farmers’ unions”.Also Read | Delhi Police ask Zoom to share details of farm stir ‘toolkit’ meeting“The efforts continue - but Government of India is more than aware of efforts by vested interests abroad to fuel the protests through misinformation and incendiary assertions that are not helpful in progressing the dialogue between the protesters and Government or addressing the issues through the democratic processes that our people have traditionally relied on,” the open letter added.Webbe and Labour Party MP Tanmanjeet Singh Dhesi have been at the forefront of UK MPs who have raised the farmers’ protest. Over the past two days, Webbe tweeted in support of the protesting farmers and Disha Ravi, the 21-year-old activist arrested over a toolkit used to organise the protests.The Indian mission’s letter said Webbe, as the representative of British citizens of Leicester East, including many connected to India through family and business ties, would have been “most welcome to convey any apprehensions of the community” that she represents to the high commission in London.“We would have been able to comprehensively and in detail provide clarifications to assuage the concerns of your constituents with regard to the recent path-breaking Indian farm laws, against which a small section of India’s farming community has been protesting,” the letter said, repeating the position taken by the external affairs ministry in response to the farmers’ protest being raised by other countries.The Indian mission said the reforms, “intended to protect and empower farmers in India”, were based on “inputs from experts and recommendations by committees that have analysed the specific challenges of the agricultural sector in India over the last 20 years”.Also Read | Deep Sidhu, accused in Republic Day violence, remanded to 7-day police custodyIt added that the farm laws were discussed and debated in Parliament and their “benefits have started reaching more than 100 million small farmers instantly”.“With the section of farmers having reservations, 11 rounds of talks have been held. Though Government of India has suggested numerous ways to address their apprehensions, including postponing implementation of the Acts or amendment of the same, these options have been summarily rejected by them,” the letter said.The Indian high commission also said the farmers participating in protests have been “treated with utmost respect and restraint by the government and security forces – more than may have been the case in similar situations elsewhere in the world”.The letter also provided a detailed brief on the three farm laws against which the farmers have been protesting since late November last year.It said that during the Covid-19 lockdown, there was an urgent need to “allow free direct marketing outside the mandis in order to not only facilitate the farmers in selling their produce near [the] farm gate at remunerative prices but also decongest the mandis”, and that the “demand suppression and logistics and supply chain breakdown only accentuated the need to liberalise the ecosystem”.In the face of pressure from British MPs, UK foreign secretary Dominic Raab had raised the farmers’ protest with his Indian counterpart during a visit to New Delhi in December.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-india-tries-to-dispel-misgivings-in-uk-101613467616237.html
16-02-2021||India||Covid-19: India's national recovery rate improves to 97.32%, amongst highest in the world||India on Tuesday recorded another landmark achievement as the national recovery rate from Covid-19 touched 97.32 per cent, among the highest in the world, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare informed.India continues to follow the trajectory of steady decline in active cases with the country's total active caseload dropping to 1.36 lakh (1,36,872) today.The present active caseload now consists of just 1.25 per cent of India's total positive cases.Click here for complete Covid-19 coverageMore than 1.06 crore (1,06,33,025) of people have recovered so far. A total of 11,805 patients have recovered and got discharged in the last 24 hours.India's Recovery Rate of 97.32 per cent is amongst the highest in the world. The difference between the recovered and active cases has further increased to 1,04,96,153 today.In another positive development, 31 states/Union Territories have reported recovery rate more than the national average. Daman and Diu, and Dadra and Nagar Haveli have a recovery rate of 99.88 per cent.Seventeen states/Union Territories reported no deaths in the last 24 hours. These are Lakshadweep, Sikkim, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Gujarat, Chandigarh, J&K (UT), Meghalaya, Ladakh (UT), Manipur, Haryana, A&N Islands, Rajasthan, Nagaland, Tripura, Arunachal Pradesh, Daman and Diu and Dadra and Nagar Haveli.Also, six states/union territories have reported no new cases in the last 24 hours. These are Sikkim, Meghalaya, A&N Islands, Nagaland, Tripura, and Daman and Diu and Dadra and Nagar Haveli.Also Read | What led to a dramatic fall in Covid-19 cases in India? Experts debateAs of February 16, 2021, till 8 am, the cumulative number of healthcare and frontline workers vaccinated against Covid-19 in the country has surpassed 87 lakhs. The countrywide vaccination drive was launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on January 16, 2021.A total of 87,20,822 beneficiaries have been vaccinated through 1,84,303 sessions, as per the provisional report till 8 am today. These include 61,07,120 HCWs (1st dose), 1,60,291 healthcare workers (2nd dose) and 24,53,411 frontline workers (1st dose).Around 81 deaths were reported in the last 24 hours. Five states account for 70.37 per cent of the new deaths.Maharashtra saw the maximum casualties at 23. Kerala follows with 13 daily deaths and Punjab has reported 10 new deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-india-s-national-recovery-rate-improves-to-9732-101613466716021.html
16-02-2021||India||Home minister Amit Shah expresses condolences over bus accident in MP's Sidhi||Expressing his grief over the bus accident in Madhya Pradesh's Sidhi, Home Minister Amit Shah on Tuesday said, he has spoken to the state Chief Minister and all possible help for rescue operation is being provided."The bus accident in Madhya Pradesh's Sidhi district is very sad, I have spoken to the Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan. The local administration is providing all possible help for relief and rescue. I express my deepest condolences to the relatives of the dead and wish the injured to get well soon," Shah tweeted.A team of two ministers will go to the bus incident site after Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan called a meeting to discuss the incident."The canal is quite deep. We have stopped the water from the dam and sent relief and rescue teams. The team of Collector, Superindent of Police (SP), and State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) are there. Efforts are being made to remove the bus," said Chouhan.Also Read | MP: 38 passengers killed as bus falls into canal; search operation underwayHe mentioned, "I am in touch with the team doing relief and rescue operations. Seven passengers have been saved.""The 'Greh Pravesh' program with great enthusiasm in 1 lakh 10 thousand houses was planned to be completed by today, but at 8 am, I got to know that the bus filled with passengers had fallen in the Bansagar canal in Sidhi district. It would not be appropriate to have the program today," Chouhan added.Former Cabinet Minister Tulsi Silawat said, "It is an unfortunate incident. Chief Minister has been taking a minute-to-minute detail of the accident since morning.""Two of us are going to Sidhi as per his (Chief Minister) instructions. I spoke to officers concerned, as per their information around 30 bodies have been recovered," Silawat added.A bus carrying nearly 57 passengers fell into a canal in Madhya Pradesh's Sidhi on Tuesday morning after the driver lost control.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/home-minister-amit-shah-expresses-condolences-over-bus-accident-in-mp-s-sidhi-101613465994130.html
16-02-2021||India||Chhattisgarh: Deputy Sarpanch killed, 2 injured by suspected Maoists in Bastar||Maoists allegedly killed a former deputy sarpanch and injured two others during a kangaroo court (Jan Adalat) in Amujhmad area of Naryanpur district of Bastar region, police said on Tuesday, in yet another case of increasing targeting of panchayat body heads, who are considered a link between the villages and the administration.The increasing killing of villagers in Maoist-infested areas in the jungles of Bastar division comes at the time when the number of encounters with left-wing extremists has come down by around 40% in the past one year. Also, there have been reports of a dip in the recruitment of cadre for Maoists. Experts believe that all these factors have caused some desperation among Maoists, who are now attacking villagers to create a scare.In this case, the police said the two injured have been admitted to a district hospital and the deceased body has been brought to district headquarters for postmortem.“The incident took place on Monday evening in Temrugaon under Benur police station. Shatrughan Korram, 34, former deputy sarpanch of Temrugaon, was shot dead by an unknown group of people in Chalka weekly market and fled after the attack,” said inspector general of police, Bastar range, Sunderaj P. The injured were Ramesh Yadav (57) and Batti Karam (35).Superintendent of Police ( SP), Narayanpur, Mohit Garg, there were pamphlets from Maoists Bayanar Area Committee claiming that Korram was a police informer and he would be killed like his father was shot dead in 2007.“Police team has been sent to the incident site and dead body recovered. Search parties were also sent but Maoists fled,” the SP said.On January 24, a deputy sarpanch was killed allegedly by Maoists in the Kondagaon district of Bastar region. Similarly, on January 6, a sarpanch of a village in Chhattisgarh’s Bastar district was killed by Maoists at his home.Senior police officers believe that Maoists want to create an environment of fear among villagers which can help them increase recruitment.“There has been a decrease in recruitment of sentries in 2017-18. The other very important factor behind recent killings is that there is total indiscipline in the ranks of Maoists, with local cadres now killing people without even taking the approval of senior cadres. And lastly, there is total ideological disarray with movement becoming an armed war with no ethics,” a police officer, who was not willing to be named, said.Also Read: 15 former Maoist couples marry on Valentine's Day in Chhattisgarh’s DantewadaThe tribal activists have condemned the continuous killing of civilians.“I don’t know why Maoists are killing villagers but this should be stopped. If Maoists claim they are here for tribals why are they killing them? Maoist should answer this question?,” said Soni Sori, a Bastar-based activist.Bela Bhatia, a human rights activist, also condemned the recent killing and said that any capital punishment should be condemned.Last Saturday, Maoists in Chhattisgarh have allegedly issued a threat to five people, including journalists, accusing them of pro-corporate and pro-government activities.Chhattisgarh police, which are yet to establish the veracity of the threat, have cited it as another evidence of Maoists' growing ‘frustration’ in the region.As per the records of Chhattisgarh police, total of 36 policemen lost their lives in Maoists' attacks in Bastar in 2020 while total 46 civilians were killed in 308 incidents of Maoists perpetrated violence in Bastar last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-deputy-sarpanch-killed-2-injured-by-suspected-maoists-in-bastar-101613465647027.html
16-02-2021||India||Congress govt in Puducherry slips into minority as another lawmaker quits||Puducherry’s V Narayanasamy-led Congress government is now in the minority as its strength has come down to 10 with the resignation of lawmaker A John Kumar on Tuesday. Kumar’s resignation came a day after health minister Malladi Krishna Rao put in his papers. He is the fourth Congress legislator to have quit over the last month. Kumar’s resignation came a day before Congress leader Rahul Gandhi’s visit to the Union territory as part of preparations for the assembly polls in April-May this year.Also Read | Assembly polls in Puducherry, Tamil Nadu will be held simultaneously: CECTwo ministers, A Namassivayam and E Theepaindan, earlier resigned in January and joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Another Congress lawmaker, N Dhanavelu, was disqualified in July for anti-party activities. In the 2016 polls, Congress won 15 seats in the 30-assembly. It has the support of three Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam lawmakers and independent legislator N Ramachandran. The opposition All India NR Congress has seven seats and All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam four. The BJP has three nominated members in the House.The Congress has earlier lost power in Madhya Pradesh and Karnataka after the resignations of its lawmakers.Gandhi is scheduled to address a public meeting in Puducherry during his day-long visit on Wednesday. He will be in poll-bound Tamil Nadu for three days from February 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-government-in-puducherry-in-minority-as-another-lawmaker-quits-101613466055964.html
16-02-2021||India||Delhi Police ask Zoom to share details of farm stir ‘toolkit’ meeting||The Delhi Police has written to video conferencing application Zoom seeking details of participants who attended the virtual meet on January 11 regarding the ‘toolkit’ on farm laws stir, an official was quoted as saying by news agency PTI on Tuesday.The Zoom meeting came to light following the arrest of 22-year-old Bengaluru activist Disha Ravi and searches at Mumbai-based activist and advocate Nikita Jacob. The Delhi Police have alleged that the duo along with another accused Shantanu Muluk attended the virtual meeting organized by Poetic Justice Foundation on Zoom.“Based on the course of action decided in the Zoom meeting, Nikita, Shantanu, Disha and others collaborated together to draft the Toolkit document. The document that they drafted had secessionist and pro-Khalistani content embedded into it through links and texts,” the police said in a statement.The police claim that it was Ravi who shared the toolkit with Swedish environmentalist Greta Thunberg and later asked the latter to delete the Twitter post carrying the document after its details accidentally got into the public domain.“The main aim of the toolkit was to create misinformation and disaffection against the lawfully enacted government. The Toolkit sought to artificially amplify the fake news and other falsehoods and also sought to precipitate action on 26th January,” the police statement read.Jacob admitted to participating in the Zoom meeting but she has denied sharing any information with Thunberg and asserted that the document was an “informational pack” and was not meant to incite violence.Ravi was on Sunday sent to five days in police custody by a Delhi court while non-bailable warrants have been issued against Jacob and Muluk. The two have filed anticipatory bail petitions and the Bombay High Court is expected to take up the matter later today.The Delhi Police has also written to messaging application WhatsApp (owned by Facebook) to get the details of the WhatsApp group created by Ravi on December 6, according to news agency ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-police-ask-zoom-to-share-details-of-farm-stir-toolkit-meeting-101613465281015.html
16-02-2021||India||NIA court sends alleged terror operative to police remand in Jammu IED case||A special NIA court on Monday sent an alleged operative of the al-Badr terror group to 14 days in police custody for his involvement in the case of the seizure of an improvised explosive device from another member of the group last week.The accused, Qazi Waseem, is the son of Abdul Rashid Qazi of Shupdani in Pulwama.“He was brought from Chandigarh on Monday and produced before the Special Judge of the NIA Court Suneet Gupta by sub divisional police officer (SDPO) City North Satish Sharma. The Court remanded him to 14 days police custody,” said a senior Jampolice officer.After hearing SDPO in person and going through the application, the Special Judge NIA Sunit Gupta observed, “Since the matter is heinous in nature and some important aspects are required to be ascertained in the instant case for which police remand of the accused is required for the purpose of further investigation,” he said.Accordingly, Waseem was remanded in police custody for 14 days with effect from February 15 and he shall be produced before the court on February 28.On Saturday, al-Badr militant Suhail Bashir (21), a resident of Newa in Pulwama, was arrested from the Jammu bus stand area here with a 7 kg IED.He had been given the task by his handlers in Pakistan to plant the powerful IED in any of the three to four places in Jammu to cause mass destruction.Apart from Qazi Waseem and main accused Suhail Bashir, who was a student of B Sc Nursing at Desh Bhagat Nursing College in Chandigarh, two other operatives of al-Badr - Abid Nabi and Athar Shakeel Khan have also been arrested from Kashmir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-court-sends-alleged-terror-operative-to-police-remand-in-jammu-ied-case-101613464845190.html
16-02-2021||India||Portals of Badrinath shrine to open on May 18||The portals of Badrinath shrine will be opened on May 18 at 4.15 am, Ravinath Raman, chief executive officer of Char Dham Devasthanam Management Board said on Tuesday.The dates of opening the portals are declared on Basant Panchami, which fell on Tuesday this year, he said.“With relaxed Covid norms and decline in Covid-19 cases, we are expecting a good number of tourists this year. We are also working on the development of Badrinath shrine area according to the Master Plan that we have prepared,” he said.The portals of Badrinath shrine were closed in November last year for the winter.The Char Dham Devasthanam Management Board has started its preparations for the Char Dham yatra this year. The offices of the Devasthanam Board have been established at Maneri in Uttarkashi district for Gangotri shrine and Barkot for Yamunotri shrine.According to officials of the Board, over 1.45 lakh pilgrims visited Badrinath shrine and a total of 3.1 lakh pilgrims came for the Char Dham Yatra last year.Of the total pilgrims, 1.34 lakh pilgrims visited Kedarnath, 23,837 pilgrims visited Gangotri and 7,731 pilgrims visited Yamunotri.The Char Dham yatra was stopped last year after the outbreak of Covid-19. The Char Dham shrines were opened for pilgrims on July 1 last year by the state government. The government further relaxed norms in the last week of July and decided to allow pilgrims from other states to visit Char Dham shrines with some conditions.In September, the Uttarakhand government removed the requirement of a negative Covid-19 report that pilgrims had to carry with them to visit the shrines.Badrinath and Kedarnath along with Yamunotri and Gangotri, collectively called Char Dham, attract lakhs of pilgrims each year. Badrinath is located along the banks of Alaknanda river at a height of over 10,000 feet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/portals-of-badrinath-shrine-to-open-on-may-18-101613463265097.html
16-02-2021||India||Sena backs TMC MP Mahua Moitra over her right to privacy||Maharashtra’s ruling Shiv Sena on Tuesday hit out at the Centre for allegedly putting Trinamool Congress (TMC) Parliament member Mahua Moitra under surveillance, saying such actions prove that “dictatorship is most scared”. In an editorial in its mouthpiece Saamana, the Sena said the government has shown its weakness by doing so.The editorial heaped praise on Moitra and said she has made the government sweat. It added the government is “scared of a woman”.Moitra wrote to the Delhi police commissioner on February 13 seeking removal of the armed security personnel outside her home days after she took on the government in Lok Sabha and said the country is in under a state on “undeclared emergency”. She wrote that “it appears to me that I am under some sort of surveillance”. Moitra called herself an “ordinary citizen”, who does not require security cover.Also Read | ‘PM Modi’s andolanjeevi remark is insult to freedom movement’: Shiv SenaThe editorial questioned what kind of culture does the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) want to bring in politics. “If they are treading on the path that nobody else should remain except them, then they have not understood the mood of the people. Even today, there are people who fearlessly battle in difficult situations. Many people like [West Bengal chief minister] Mamata Banerjee, [her Maharashtra counterpart] Uddhav Thackeray, [Nationalist Congress Party leader] Sharad Pawar, [the] Badal [family] of Punjab and Rajesh Tikait, a farmer leader, are fighting fearlessly. Even if the government has the machinery to monitor, the battle will not stop.”The editorial said Moitra has ripped the government’s veil.Sena leader Sanjay Raut said the Centre was keeping an eye on Moitra after she exposed the BJP government. He backed Moitra over her right to privacy and said that her questions to the Delhi police on why she is being given protection without seeking it are valid. “Mahua Moitra has complained that she is under surveillance and it is done through various means. We are also under surveillance because the government holds the strings of various agencies...”There was no immediate response from the BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sena-backs-tmc-mp-mahua-moitra-over-her-right-to-privacy-101613463115984.html
16-02-2021||India||What led to a dramatic fall in Covid-19 cases in India? Experts debate||The trajectory of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in India has left open a gamut of theories for experts. What seemed like an inevitable escalation in the cases, rising at a pace quick enough to overtake the United States, fizzled out within three months and displayed India as an interesting case study.Are the natural factors like innate human immunity and the country's topography at play or did the stringent measures of compulsory use of mask and hefty fines for breaking the rule prevent deaths from Covid-19 large scale? Or has the urban India secured herd immunity which is controlling the tally from again touching a red mark?In whatever direction India has moved, it is clear that the country's once sinking health care system has reported a grasp over the disease as reports of burdened and overstretched hospitals have not surfaced from any part of the country.Daily new cases being reported in India at present are only around 12% of the country’s peak. India has so far not seen a second wave of infections, unlike most other big countries. New cases in the US stopped dropping after the first wave when the new cases were 64% of the first peak (and the second wave began).Among the top explanations lies - preexisting immunity from previous similar viral infections.Experts suggest that Indians may have some preexisting protection from the virus.Dr Daksha Shah, a government epidemiologist explained NPR how Malaria, typhoid, dengue fever are all endemic in India. "People with robust immune systems are more likely to survive here in the first place, Shah said.Also read | Covid-19: Why India is on the right track now"Plus, more than half of the population is under age 25. They're less likely to die of Covid-19 and more likely to get it asymptomatically," Shah said.“If the Covid virus can be controlled in the nose and throat, before it reaches the lungs, it doesn’t become as serious. Innate immunity works at this level, by trying to reduce the viral infection and stop it from getting to the lungs,” said Jameel, of Ashoka University.This is especially true because new research suggests that people who got sick with one form of the virus may be able to get infected again with a new version. For instance, Vineeta Bal, who studies immune systems at India’s National Institute of Immunology, pointed to a recent survey in Manaus, Brazil, that estimated that over 75% of people there had antibodies for the virus in October — before cases surged again in January.India's infections began to plummet in September, shortly after India was witnessing a crippling surge in cases, as people feared the toll it was taking on the country's economy. Now, the country is reporting about 11,000 new cases a day, compared to a peak of nearly 100,000.The second explanation by the experts points towards a dubious herd immunity claim. Some large areas have reached herd immunity — the threshold at which enough people have developed immunity to the virus, by falling sick or being vaccinated, that the spread begins to slacken, Bal said.However, even if herd immunity in some places is partially responsible for the decline, the vast Indian population as a whole remains vulnerable — and must continue to take precautions.Also read: The Covid-19 story across the country’s districts“If we don’t know the reason, you could unknowingly be doing things that could lead to a flare-up,” said Dr. Shahid Jameel, who studies viruses at India’s Ashoka University told Associated Press.The progress in combating the viral contagion in India has been worthy of study by experts to help other countries determine the methodology for bringing the cases down.India has reported nearly 11 million cases and over 155,000 deaths. Some 2.4 million people have died worldwide.Soon after the disease spread, India moved swiftly to bring a lockdown in place. The streets ran empty and markets once bustling with people were left deserted for weeks, except the essential stores for helping people stock up on ration.The cases didn't go down. Only increased.So in consultation with medical fraternity and experts, the government made the mask mandatory for people.A report by NPR quoted health policy expert Genevie Fernandes who said mask mandates are one of the things that may have helped bring down India's Covid-19 caseload. The worst-affected states like Maharashtra, Gujarat, Karnataka, Delhi among several displayed stringency in asking people to wear masks whenever they step outside. Non-compliance with the instruction carried a hefty fine."...In this particular case, the police, the monitoring, enforcement, that was ramped up. Every time they fine a person 200 rupees, they also give them a mask to wear," Fernandes told NPR.But experts have noted the situation is more complicated since the decline is uniform even though mask compliance is flagging in some areas.Could India be underreporting the cases? Or manipulating the death toll?The Associated Press stated that India, like other countries, misses many infections, and there are questions about how it’s counting virus deaths. But the strain on the country's hospitals has also declined in recent weeks, a further indication the virus's spread is slowing.When recorded cases crossed 9 million in November, official figures showed nearly 90% of all critical care beds with ventilators in New Delhi were full. On Thursday, 16% of these beds were occupied.That success can't be attributed to vaccinations since India only began administering shots in January — but as more people get a vaccine, the outlook should look even better, though experts are also concerned about variants identified in many countries that appear to be more contagious and render some treatments and vaccines less effective.According to the serosurvey - a nationwide screening for antibodies by Indian health agencies - estimated that about 270 million, or one in five Indians, had been infected by the virus before vaccinations started — that’s far below the rate of 70% or higher that experts say might be the threshold for the coronavirus, though even that is not certain.“The message is that a large proportion of the population remains vulnerable,” said Dr. Balram Bhargava, Indian Council of Medical Research chief said.The urban city sphere versus rural hinterlands diagnosis by the experts tells an interesting tale, backing the plummeting cases with reason.The screening showed that more people had been infected in India’s cities than in its villages, and that the virus was moving more slowly through the rural hinterland.“Rural areas have lesser crowd density, people work in open spaces more and homes are much more ventilated,” said Dr. K. Srinath Reddy, president of the Public Health Foundation of India told Associated Press.If some urban areas are moving closer to herd immunity — wherever that threshold lies — and are also limiting transmission through masks and physical distancing and thus are seeing falling cases, then maybe the low speed at which the virus is passing through rural India can help explain sinking numbers, suggested Reddy.With the reasons behind India's success unclear, experts are concerned that people will let down their guard. Large parts of India have already returned to normal life. In many cities, markets are heaving, roads are crowded and restaurants nearly full.Can this spark another slew of infections and mark the virus' return? Will India's second return because of the country's own lack of learning? The above-stated factors will be able to explain better.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-led-to-dramatic-fall-in-covid-19-cases-in-india-experts-debate-101613455249126.html
16-02-2021||India||‘Hope you are taking it seriously’: Supreme Court asks Centre for response on PIL seeking regulation of OTT platforms||The Supreme Court on Tuesday asked the Centre to file its response to a PIL demanding a mechanism to monitor, manage and regulate content on over-the-top (OTT) platforms like Netflix and Amazon Prime Video.A three judge bench headed by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde asked the Centre to file an affidavit stating what it proposes to do on oath regarding the regulation of the online video streaming platforms.The ruling came on a petition filed by one Shashank Shekhar Jha and Apurva Arhatia who demanded that a regulatory body, headed by a secretary-level IAS officer, with members from varied fields including movie, cinematographic, media, defence forces, legal and education, be set up to monitor content on OTT platforms such as Netflix, Amazon Prime, Hotstar, among others. The petitioners had stated their aim was to protect the constitutional right to life, by preventing these platforms from abusing their freedom of expression.The top court had issued a notice on this petition, filed against the Union of India, ministry of information and broadcasting and Internet and Mobile Association of India, on October 15 last year. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for Centre, informed the bench that a related matter is pending before the court and if both matters are tagged, Centre may file a common response.The bench, also comprising Justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian said, "We hope that you are taking this issue seriously" to which Mehta responded that the process is already underway. The apex court was even about to allow the petitioners to withdraw their petitions and move a representation to the government.However, Additional Solicitor General KM Nataraj who appeared along with SG said, "to what extent we (Centre) can regulate is still under contemplation. Whether legislation is needed has not been finalised." The bench then asked the Centre to first put on affidavit what they propose to do.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hope-you-are-taking-it-seriously-supreme-court-asks-centre-for-response-on-pil-seeking-regulation-of-ott-platforms-101613462243835.html
16-02-2021||India||News updates from HT: SC allows PIL on priority Covid jabs for legal fraternity and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Supreme Court agrees to consider issue of priority vaccination for members of legal fraternity, issues notice to CentreThe Supreme Court on Tuesday issued notice to Centre on a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) seeking priority for getting Covid vaccination for judges, judicial employees and members of legal fraternity. Read MoreTold not to campaign in 2016 when I pointed out corruption within TMC: TrivediRajya Sabha MP Dinesh Trivedi, who quit the Trinamool Congress on February 12, said that he was often denounced as a "bad person" for finding flaws within the TMC. Read MoreTold about activist Disha Ravi arrest later, say Bengaluru police officersSenior officers in Bengaluru police on Monday said that they were informed about the arrest of 22-year-old Disha Ravi only after all procedures of the arrest were completed. Read MoreMF Husain’s legacy in Hyderabad now reduced to rubble“It is sad that we are not able to preserve the precious legacy of [MF] Husain saab,” said Hyderabad-based artiste Laxman Aelay, days after Husain’s unique museum, Cinema Ghar, was razed last week. Read More'Will be pretty cool': Glenn Maxwell eager to bat alongside his 'idol' at Royal Challengers BangaloreGlenn Maxwell, who was released by Punjab Kings (formerly Kings XI Punjab) after spending several seasons with the franchise has his eyes set on the IPL auction. Read MoreRecipe: Get your solo ‘pawri’ started this Tuesday with funfetti mug cakeJust the second day of the week and we are already fantasising about the weekend as the work load piles on but a funfetti mug cake is exactly what can brush aside our Tuesday blues. Read MoreCouple leaves $2000 tip for restaurant servers for this very special reasonIf you have been using social media for long, chances are you have seen the posts by different restaurants about the customers who left huge tip for the servers. Read MoreWatch: Woman beaten, made to walk 3 kms with teenager on shoulder over ‘affair’A shocking case has emerged from Guna district in Madhya Pradesh. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-sc-allows-pil-on-priority-covid-jabs-for-legal-fraternity-and-all-the-latest-news-101613457306447.html
16-02-2021||India||On rising petrol, diesel prices, Surjewala makes sharp attack at govt with 'fuel loot' tweet||Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala attacked the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led central government over rising prices of petrol and diesel, accusing it of 'fuel loot'.Surjewala took to Twitter to explain the taxation process on fuels and alleged that the government earned ₹20 lakh crore in six years by increasing prices. He also bifurcated the base price, excise duty, value added tax (VAT), profit of oil companies and the price paid by the common man.In the tweet posted in Hindi, the Congress general secretary said the base price of diesel is ₹33.46 per litre and that of petrol is ₹31.82 per litre. However, for the common man petrol costs ₹89.29 per litre and diesel costs ₹79.35 per litre, said Surjewala. He attributed the wide ranging gap between the base price and market price to the significant amount of tax imposed by the government on fuel. Tax on diesel amounts to ₹46.24 per litre, while on petrol it is ₹57.29 per litre, he claimed in the tweet.डीज़ल की लागत सिर्फ़ ₹33.46/लीटरपेट्रोल की लागत सिर्फ़ ₹31.82/लीटरपर देशवासियों के लिए-डीज़ल की क़ीमत ₹79.35/लीटरपेट्रोल की क़ीमत ₹89.29/लीटरकारण-डीज़ल पर मोदी टैक्स ₹46.24/लीटरपेट्रोल पर मोदी टैक्स ₹58.24/लीटर6 साल में मोदी सरकार ने 20 लाख करोड़ कमाए।#FuelLoot pic.twitter.com/IezAmwe12aThe petrol and diesel prices increased for the eight consecutive day on Tuesday. After the recent hike, petrol prices in Delhi have inched closer to ₹90 per litre.Petrol in Delhi today cost ₹89.29 per litre after it was hiked by 30 paise, while diesel cost ₹79.70 per litre after the increase of 35 paise.In Madhya Pradesh, petrol prices have crossed ₹100 per litre. The rates differ from state to state contingent on the local sales tax, VAT or freight charges.The hike in the fuel prices comes in the backdrop of the recent hike of domestic LPG cylinders in Delhi. The rate of the cylinder used for domestic household cooking was increased by ₹50 per unit to ₹769.Also Read | Contemplating 'some action' on regulating OTT platforms, Centre tells SCThe opposition party is vehemently criticising the increased fuel prices that are directly affecting the citizens of the country."By continuously rising fuel prices, the BJP government is fulfilling its mission 'Aab Ki Baar Petrol/Diesel ₹100 Paar'. It is now an open secret that the BJP government does not believe in welfare but is launching economic warfare against its own citizens," PTI quoted party spokesperson Jaiveer Shergill as saying.Other party leaders like Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra have also criticised the government for the price hike.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-rising-petrol-diesel-prices-surjewala-makes-sharp-attack-at-govt-with-fuel-loot-tweet-101613456258762.html
16-02-2021||India||12 days after flying to Maldives, seaplane to land in Ahmedabad today||Twelve days after it was flown to Maldives for scheduled maintenance, the country’s sole seaplane returned to India on Monday, and will land in Ahmedabad today.Confirming its arrival, SpiceJet spokesperson said, “The aircraft reached Cochin on Monday, and will be soon reaching Ahmedabad.” The country’s only seaplane operating between Kevadia and Sabarmati riverfront (Ahmedabad) was flown back to Maldives on February 3. The airline spokesperson said the operation would be suspended only for three days, and “will resume on February 6, 2021. While a facility for day-to-day maintenance has been set up in India, one for larger maintenance is in the works”.The 15-seater Twin Otter 300 seaplane – is the property of a Maldivian company. The services were inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on October 31, the birth anniversary of Sardar Vallabhai Patel, to boost tourism to the Statue of Unity.Also Read | Govt to launch seaplane services on various routes: Union minister MandaviyaLast month, HT had reported that seaplane services were unable to attract passengers. While sources say it is flying at around 50% capacity,the airline has maintained that the flights to Kevadia are clocking an average load of over 90%.The first seaplane to operate under the government’s Udey Desh ka Aam Naagrik (UDAN) project is being operated by Spice Shuttle, a fully-owned subsidiary of SpiceJet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/12-days-after-flying-to-maldives-seaplane-to-land-in-ahmedabad-today-101613461375973.html
16-02-2021||India||In dry Nagaland, over 1000 liquor cases registered during peak of Covid pandemic||More than 1,000 alcohol-related cases were registered in a span of nine months in the past year during the peak of the Covid-19 pandemic in Nagaland where total prohibition has been in force since 1989, the government said on Monday .According to the annual administrative report of the state excise and prohibition department (2020-2021) which was tabled in the ongoing session of the Nagaland Legislative Assembly by chief minister Neiphiu Rio on Monday, a total of 1,187 cases of liquor and narcotics cases were registered during April 2020 till December 2020.Of the total cases, 1,180 were liquor-related while seven were narcotics and other drug cases. A total of 1,187 people were arrested for the offences.The report stated that seized articles in connection with the cases included 32,080 bottles of Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL), 10,874 bottles of beer and 1,795 litres of country liquor besides 480 kg of ganja, 3.5 kg brown sugar, 2,159 bottles of cough syrup and 6,125 capsules of other drugs.The department administers the Nagaland Excise Act 1967 along with the Nagaland Liquor Total Prohibition (NLTP) Act 1989 and the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act 1985 in tandem.The NLTP Act, which prohibits possession, sale, consumption and manufacture of liquor, import and export thereof in the state, is a topic that often resurfaces for debate in the public domain on whether it should be given more teeth or be relaxed altogether.While a large section of people holds the view that prohibition was brought into force with good intention but its implementation has failed, the influential Nagaland Baptist Church Council (NBCC), which was pivotal in bringing about prohibition in the state, has recently reaffirmed its stand on the issue and urged the state government to seriously implement the law.Those against prohibition say it has only helped spurious liquor find its way into the state through the black market which consequently affects the health of the people who drink alcohol. They also argue that scrapping prohibition would ensure better quality of liquor at cheaper prices and also increase the government’s revenue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-dry-nagaland-over-1000-liquor-cases-registered-during-peak-of-covid-pandemic-101613459842557.html
16-02-2021||India||Contemplating 'some action' on regulating OTT platforms, Centre tells SC||The Centre Tuesday told the Supreme Court that it was contemplating "some action" on the issue of regulating OTT platforms such as Netflix and Amazon Prime.A bench comprising Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, which was initially of the view that the petitioner should approach the government for the remedy, asked the government to file its response within six weeks to the PIL seeking OTT regulation by an autonomous body.At the outset, Additional Solicitor General Sanjay Jain said the Centre was contemplating some action on the issue of regulating OTT platforms.The CJI sought to know from Jain as to what would be the action from the government and asked him to file the response in six weeks while tagging the matter with the pending petition.The top court had on October 15 last year issued notices to the central government, Ministry of Information and Broadcasting and Internet and Mobile Association of India.The plea filed by advocates Shashank Shekhar Jha and Apurva Arhatia also sought a proper board/institution /association for the monitoring and management of content on different OTT/Streaming and digital media platforms.“With cinema theatres unlikely to open anytime soon in the country, OTT/Streaming and different digital media platforms have surely given a way out for film makers and artists to release their content without being worried about getting clearance certificates for their films and series from the censor board,” the plea said.At present, however, there is no law or autonomous body governing the digital content to monitor and manage these digital contents and it is made available to the public at large without any filter or screening, it said.“Lack of legislation governing OTT/Streaming Platforms is becoming evident with each passing day and every new case that is filed on these grounds. The government is facing heat to fill this lacuna with regulations from the public and the Judiciary; still the relevant government departments have not done anything significant to regularise these OTT/Streaming Platforms,” the plea said.None of the OTT/Streaming platforms including Netflix, Amazon Prime, Zee5, and Hotstar have signed the self-regulation provided by Ministry of Information and Broadcasting since February 2020, it said.The ministry had earlier told the top court in a separate case that there is a need to regulate digital media and that the court may first appoint a committee of persons as amicus before laying down guidelines with respect to the regulation of hate speech in the media.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/contemplating-some-action-on-regulating-ott-platforms-centre-tells-sc-101613460217295.html
16-02-2021||India||Maharashtra notifies 121 ha of mangrove area in Palghar as forest land||Maharashtra has notified around 121 hectares (ha) of mangrove area in Palghar as forest land under the Indian Forest Act (IFA). It will be included in the state’s reserved forest area of 16,700 ha.In a gazette notification on February 5, the government announced that the 121.78 ha will be handed over to the state forest department. Earlier, on January 13, 1,388 ha of mangrove area in Thane was notified as forest land.Virendra Tiwari, additional principal chief conservator of forests and an ex-officio executive director of the state Mangrove Foundation, said the land has been notified for the conservation of the mangroves.Also Read | Mangrove cell removes 450 illegal establishments on salt pan landsThe state Mangrove Cell has also notified 1,509 ha in Palghar and 502.95 ha of mangroves land in Kurla as a reserved forest for conservation. A gazette notification to this effect was issued last Wednesday.“These are lands that were already with the Cell. They were already notified as reserved forest under section 4 of IFA. Due process was followed to check for any claims on the land by the district administration. This is the final notification so that there are no claims on these lands, and they are reserved forests, soon to be handed over to the forest department,” Tiwari said.Also Read | Maharashtra government adds 1,388 ha of mangrove area in Thane as forest landOn January 12, the state notified 1,575.16 ha of mangrove lands along the state’s coast. This is in line with a Bombay High Court order directing the government to hand over all mangrove areas on the government land to the forests department for better conservation.In 2005, in an interim order, the court issued the direction. The court reiterated its order in September 2018. District bodies are yet to hand over 1,592.8 ha area, while state agencies have failed to transfer approximately 1,147 ha to the forest department.This month, Vanashakti, an environmental group, filed a petition in the court seeking immediate transfer of all mangrove lands to the forest department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-notifies-121-ha-of-mangrove-area-in-palghar-as-forest-land-101613459755664.html
16-02-2021||India||Panchkula land scam: ED files chargesheet against Bhupinder Hooda, 21 others||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has filed a chargesheet against former Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Hooda and 21 others in Panchkula land scam case. Those chargesheeted include four retired IAS officers.The case involves allotment of 14 industrial plots worth ₹30 crore to the acquaintances of Hooda in 2013.The ED had initiated investigation in 2015 based on an FIR by Haryana vigilance bureau. The FIR was subsequently transferred to Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in 2016, which registered the case under sections 120-B, 201, 204, 409, 420, 467, 468, 471 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), and Section 13 of the Prevention of Corruption Act.The investigation revealed that Hooda, as ex-officio chairman of Haryana Urban Development Authority (HUDA) and the four retired IAS officers - then office-bearers of the authority - illegally favoured the pre-selected acquaintances.The four retired officers are: Dharam Pal Singh Nagal (former chief administrator, HUDA), Surjit Singh (former administrator, HUDA), Subhash Chandra Kansal (former chief controller of finance, HUDA) and Narinder Kumar Solanki (former zonal administrator of HUDA's Faridabad Zone). They have been under money laundering charges along with Bharat Bhushan Taneja (former superintendent, HUDA), the ED said.The investigation done by the agency has revealed that investigation that the price fixed for the subject allotment were kept 4-5 times below circle rate and 7-8 times market rate.The agency also said that the criteria for allotment was altered 18 days after the last date of application in such a way to favour the pre-selected applicants by increasing the discretion at the hands of the interview committee.The ED further said that the entire interview process was "vitiated and compromised".All the 14 industrial plots were attached as per the provisions of Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) by the ED in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/panchkula-land-scam-ed-files-chargesheet-against-bhupinder-hooda-21-others-101613459442219.html
16-02-2021||India||Odisha government ignorant about law on protection of heritage sites: BJP MP||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) parliamentarian Aparajita Sarangi has slammed the Odisha government for being ignorant about the central law on the protection of heritage sites and called the ruling Biju Janata Dal (BJD)’s opposition to the draft by-law on Puri’s Sri Jagannath temple and other temples in Bhubaneswar politically motivated.“The chief secretary and BJD leaders including the chief minister [Naveen Patnaik] have written to the culture ministry demanding the withdrawal of the draft by-law on the Ananta Basudeva Temple in Bhubaneswar. [The] withdrawal...does not mean anything as any construction within a 100-metre radius of the protected monument is barred under the Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains (Amendment and Validation) Act, 2010. It is a central Act passed by Parliament and overrides everything else. The Act cannot be withdrawn,” said Sarangi on Monday.Sarangi added the Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains (Framing of Heritage By-laws and other functions of the Competent Authority) Rules, 2011, have also set the necessary guidelines.Also Read | Six elephants die of bacterial disease in Odisha, highest in any sanctuaryShe said the Odisha’s culture director was part of the draft by-law preparation. Sarangi added it is possible that the Odisha government was unaware of the same. “Governance is a serious matter. There should be an application of mind, reading of the laws and understanding their implications. Immaturity in governance cannot be accepted by the people of Odisha.”Sarangi’s comments came a week after the Union culture ministry withdrew the draft heritage by-law for Puri’s Shri Jagannath Temple issued by the National Monuments Authority. Last month, the authority had come out with the draft for the 12th-century temple proposing the 100-metre area around it as a prohibited area under Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains (Amendment and Validation) Act, 2010. A further 200-metre area was proposed as a regulated area where constructions would need approval.BJD and BJP parliament members met union culture minister Prahlad Singh Patel and sought the withdrawal of the draft by-law on Sri Jagannath temple. Patel later said the draft was issued without the knowledge of the chairman of the National Monuments Authority (NMA). The NMA would now issue a revised draft by-law for the Jagannath Temple.The draft by-law for the Ananta Basudeva Temple threatens to spoil the state government’s plans for the beautification of the 11th-century Lingaraj temple located within 100 metres of the former. The state government plans to build a heritage complex, revive Bindu Sagar tank, develop a parking space and heritage interpretation centre.On Monday, chief secretary Suresh Chandra Mahapatra wrote to the Union culture secretary Raghvendra Singh demanding the withdrawal of by-law for Ananta Basudev and Brahmeswar temples in Bhubaneswar saying it has led to discontentment.“This kind of atmosphere in temples is bound to hurt the religious sentiments of lakhs of devotees. The largest congregation of devotees in Ekamra Kshetra will happen on March 11 on the occasion of Maha Shivratri festival. It is important to have a peaceful atmosphere and full co-operation of sevayats for conducting this Annual Maha Shivratri festival in which lakhs of devotees from all over the state participate,” Mahapatra wrote.Sarangi said the apprehensions that development works near the monuments will be affected were misplaced. “The bylaws will prove good for all. They are draft bylaws and not the final.” She cited demolitions around Jagannath temple and Lingaraj temple over the last two years and said the Archaeological Survey of India wrote nine letters to the state government and issued show-cause on the construction around the two temples without its permission. Sarangi added the state government did not reply to any of the letters. She said two firms from Noida and Bangalore have been given the contract for ₹800 crore for beautification plan of the two temples without any clarity on how they were chosen. “The government talks so much on transparency, yet there is no clarity.”Manas Mangaraj, the media advisor to the Odisha government, said the director of culture was never involved in any of the meetings over the preparation of the draft bylaws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-government-ignorant-about-law-on-protection-of-heritage-sitesbjpmp-101613459335838.html
16-02-2021||India||Disha Ravi's arrest: 'False to say there were lapses', says Delhi Police chief||Delhi Police Commissioner SN Srivastava on Tuesday said that due procedure was followed in the arrest of activist Disha Ravi for her alleged involvement in preparing and a toolkit that details digital support for farmers protesting against Centre agricultural laws.Shrivastava said it is wrong to say that there were lapses."As far as Disha's arrest is concerned, it was done as per the procedures. Law doesn't differentiate between a 22-year-old and a 50-year-old. She was produced before a court which sent her to 5-day Police custody. It's false when people say that there were lapses in the arrest," news agency ANI quoted Shrivastava as saying.Ravi was arrested from Bengaluru on Saturday, and sent to five-day police custody when she was produced before a magistrate in Delhi. A number of activists and opposition parties had condemned the arrest and demanding that the 22-year-old should be immediately released.Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said on Twitter that authorities are feeling threatened by an "unarmed girl".The officers in Bengaluru police said they were informed about Ravi's arrest only after all procedures of the arrest were completed. Three senior police officers HT spoke to, said on condition of anonymity that Delhi police informed the local police about the arrest through officials of Karnataka cyber-crime cell, after the arrest was made.The Delhi Police had said on Monday that Ravi was arrested in the presence of her mother and the Station House Officer from the local police station. Addressing a press conference, Prem Nath, Joint Commissioner, Cyber Cell, Delhi Police had said that all precedures wrre followed.However, the operation of Delhi Police has come under scrutiny by legal experts and activists.A group of lawyers in Bengaluru has submitted a memorandum to the police, seeking explanation on the procedural lapses and the follow-up action by them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-disha-ravi-arrested-in-toolkit-case-as-per-procedure-false-to-say-there-were-lapses-says-delhi-police-commissioner-101613457870369.html
16-02-2021||India||Supreme Court agrees to consider issue of priority vaccination for members of legal fraternity, issues notice to Centre||The Supreme Court on Tuesday issued notice to Centre on a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) seeking priority for getting Covid vaccination for judges, judicial employees and members of legal fraternity.The PIL was filed by Arvind Singh and heard by a three-judge bench headed by chief Justice of India (CJI) Sharad Arvind Bobde.The petitioner had argued that the government has prioritised vaccination for police, healthcare workers, security personnel and revenue officials. "Whatever they do culminates in the judiciary," he further argued in his petition."Members of the legal and judicial system should be given priority," the petitioner further stated.The bench, also comprising Justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, said, "We will consider this issue. "The matter will be heard after two weeks.Last month, the Supreme Court Bar Association had written to the government raising similar demands for including judges, judicial staff and lawyers to get vaccination on priority.While hearing a case earlier this month, senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi had impressed upon Attorney General KK Venugopal to use his good offices with the government and provide vaccination on priority for lawyers.India launched the world's biggest vaccination drive on January 16 and 85 lakh healthcare and frontline workers have received a shot of the vaccine so far, according to Union health ministry.Those vaccinated include 61,54,894 healthcare workers (HCWs), out of whom 60,57,162 have been administered the first dose and 98,118 given the second dose, said the ministry.The administration of second dose of Covid-19 vaccine started from Saturday for those beneficiaries who have completed 28 days after being given the first dose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-agrees-to-consider-issue-of-priority-vaccination-for-members-of-legal-fraternity-issues-notice-to-centre-101613457389526.html
16-02-2021||India||AIADMK beyond caste and religion, says Palaniswami||Tamil Nadu chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami, accompanied by senior All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) leaders, on Monday conducted a mass marriage in Coimbatore district for 123 couples belonging to all faiths, a clear attempt by the party to distance itself from the Hindutva ideology of its ally, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).“This wedding platform is a testament to the fact that the (AIADMK) party is beyond caste and religion,” Palaniswami said at the event.Although the AIADMK-led government has conducted mass marriages previously involving couples of different castes and religions, the party’s alliance with the BJP, which espouses the Hindutva cause, appears to have compelled the Tamil Nadu ruling party to reaffirm its secular stance.“The AIADMK is always on the side of minorities; our friendship is long-lasting which is what the chief minister has been conveying whenever he gets a chance with Muslim or Christian leaders,” AIADMK’s minority wing secretary, Anwhar Raajhaa, said. “We believe that unlike the 2019 parliamentary elections or subsequent civic polls, the minorities will support us as they did in the 2016 assembly elections (AIADMK under Jayalalithaa came to power for the second consecutive term).”All mainstream Dravidian parties that sprang from Periyar’s (EV Ramasamy) Dravidian movement pitched themselves as rationalist and non-religious parties, which did not believe in rituals, although some amount of religion and rituals has crept in over the decades.Palaniswami started his election campaign in December from a temple as the National Democratic Alliance’s chief ministerial candidate. On the campaign trail, he is often seen with vermilion on his forehead, although he has worn a skull cap too when addressing Muslim gatherings. He offered prayers at the Nagore Dargah and Vailankanni Church while inspecting cyclone damage in the region in December. A common theme at his campaign rallies is an assertion that minority communities will be safe under his government.The AIADMK and the BJP joined hands ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha polls and managed to win just one of the 39 seats Tamil Nadu fills in the lower house. They will contest the assembly elections due in April-May as partners.Incidentally, the BJP state leadership was also in Coimbatore on Monday for an internal preparatory meeting.Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who was in Chennai on Sunday, is likely to address a political rally on February 25 in Coimbatore.The BJP launched a month-long vetrivel yatra (victorious spear march) in November to espouse the cause of Hindus, but political experts said the party failed to connect with local voters.There is a growing perception in the AIADMK that allying with the BJP could lead to the party alienating secular voters, a constituency carefully cultivated by late chief minister J Jayalalithaa through various social development programmes and non-religion based Dravidian politics.The votes of Muslims and Christians, according to the 2011 Census, make up about 12% of the total votes in Tamil Nadu.“Once they (Christians and Muslims) were divided, now they are united on an anti-Modi plank,” said political commentator Raveendran Duraisamy. “Secular Brahmins with a progressive outlook have also joined Christians and Muslims in opinion creation. This, coupled with Tamil nationalism, Dravidian nationalism and leftist ideology influences a major chunk of Hindu voters too. Palaniswami wants to dilute this.”The CM has been open about the mixed signals his party’s alliance sends out.Last Thursday, Palaniswami participated at a meeting of the Muslim community in Tirupur district ,seeking the support of Muslim voters and said that “alliances will change because they are formed for politics, but the party will never let go of ideology...No one needs to fear that they will be affected because of our alliances. We will require your support for our governance to continue.”The AIADMK government has supported the Centre’s laws such as the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, or CAA, and the abolition of the Muslim practice of Triple Talaq.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aiadmk-beyond-caste-and-religion-says-palaniswami-101613457110322.html
16-02-2021||India||Maharashtra completes Covid-19 immunization of 4,679 healthcare workers||On the first day for administering the second dose of Covid-19 vaccine on Monday, 4,679 healthcare workers in Maharashtra completed their immunization, health department officials said. These healthcare workers were given the first dose of the vaccine 28 days ago.It is mandatory to maintain a gap of 28 days for taking the second dose of Covid vaccine. Maharashtra has around 8 lakh healthcare workers and 5.8 lakh frontline workers registered on the centralised Co-WIN app.However, health officials again experienced technical glitches on Co-WIN app while starting with the second dose of the vaccine. The names of beneficiaries who had registered offline or manually were not found on Co-WIN app which affected the vaccination drive.Maharashtra’s health minister Rajesh Tope said that it was not a major issue and directives have been issued to upload these names."It is not true that those expected to get a second dose could not find their names on the Co-WIN app. The fact is only those beneficiaries who were registered offline or manually for taking the first shot of the vaccine could not find their names on Co-WIN app. It was found that these names will have to be uploaded on the app for which directives have been issued. It will be resolved soon," Tope said.Till Monday, a total 71,36,725 people were vaccinated. On Monday alone, the state has vaccinated 29,884 people including 9,556 healthcare workers and 15,649 frontline workers, according to the data released by the state health department.Maharashtra has seen a rise in Covid-19 cases for the last six days. Monday was the sixth consecutive day when the state reported 3,000 plus cases. The rise in cases started from February 10 when it reported 3,451 cases. Between February 11 and 15, it recorded 3,297 cases, 3,670 cases, 3611 cases, 4,092 cases and 3,365 cases respectively. This has alarmed the state authorities as Covid cases had hit a plateau for the last three months.The Covid-19 tally in Maharashtra, which is India’s worst affected state, stands at 20,67,643 including 51,552 deaths and 19,78,708 recoveries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-completes-covid-19-immunization-of-4-679-healthcare-workers-101613456834765.html
16-02-2021||India||Father-son duo killed in road accident in UP's Pratapgarh||A 65-year-old man and his son were killed when their motorcycle hit a stationary tractor-trolley near Vishnupur village under Raniganj Police Station area here, police said on Tuesday.Ram Murti Singh and his son Ajay (30) were seriously injured in the accident that took place on Raniganj-Patti road on Monday night, Deputy Superintendent of Police, Raniganj, Atul Anjan Tripathi said.Both were rushed to a nearby community health centre from where they were taken to the district hospital, where doctors declared them dead, Tripathi said.The bodies have been sent for post mortem examination, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fatherson-duo-killed-in-road-accident-in-up-s-pratapgarh-101613456830902.html
16-02-2021||India||MF Husain’s legacy in Hyderabad now reduced to rubble||“It is sad that we are not able to preserve the precious legacy of [MF] Husain saab,” said Hyderabad-based artiste Laxman Aelay, days after Husain’s unique museum, Cinema Ghar, was razed last week.Located at the vantage point on Road No. 12 of the upscale Banjara Hills in Hyderabad, MF Husain's museum was inaugurated in 1999 by Bollywood actor Madhuri Dixit and housed rare collections of the renowned artist from various phases of his life.Husain’s family sold the property last year, where a commercial complex is likely to come up.“Yes, we sold the property last year. I am not aware what is coming up there,” said Shafaat Husain, the artist’s eldest son.Shafaat did not divulge details of where the rare collections were being housed. “What do you do with them?” he said.The paintings and other collections were shifted to Mumbai soon after Husain’s death in London on June 9, 2011, Aelay said.A peculiar feature of the Cinema Ghar was that while there were only two colours on the building’s elevation from outside – black and white with Husain’s trademark sketches carved out on the walls – the walls on the insides of the museum were huge canvasses of vibrant colours with several abstract and realistic paintings. The museum also housed a 50-seat cinema theatre, equipped with Dolby sound system and a library of nearly 2,000 books on art, cinema, music and science.There was also an exhibition hall to accommodate larger art pieces. A gallery with photos of Dada Saheb Phalke, Madhuri Dixit, and Tabu, along with video and digital albums of musicians from the Beetles to A R Rahman and Urvashi to Martha Graham, was also set up inside the museum.“It was a feast for art lovers to visit this museum and spend time there. I had an opportunity to picturise every part of Cinema Ghar. I had the privilege of having a cup of tea with Husain sir in this lobby and take his innumerable pictures. It is sad to know that this magnificent edifice is not to be seen any more,” says photographer K R Vinayan, who has made a pictorial book on Cinema Ghar.Married to Fazila, a Bohra Muslim from the city’s Hussaini Alam area, the artist remained close to Hyderabad. “He used to make surprise appearances in the streets of Hyderabad walking bare-footed; have a cup of an Irani chai at a street corner café in Secunderabad and take a stroll on the Tank Bund on the banks of Hussainsagar. Hyderabad was like his second home,” Mir Ayoob Ali Khan, a senior journalist, said. In 2006, when Husain received death threats in Mumbai, he considered shifting base to Hyderabad. “But he moved to Qatar for reasons known to him, and from there to London, where he passed away,” Khan said. Writer Anju Poddar, who was a close friend of Husain, also expressed regrets that the museum has been razed to rubble.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mfhusains-legacy-in-hyderabad-now-reduced-to-rubble-101613456039368.html
16-02-2021||India||'Basant Panchami brought new enthusiasm for country marred by Covid-19': PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday laid the foundation stone of Maharaja Suheldev Memorial and Maharaja Suheldev Development project and dedicated to the public Maharaja Suheldev State Medical College (Baharaich) via video conferencing.Launching the event, PM Modi said that the spring season this year has brought new hopes leaving the pandemic behind."I salute this holy land of Bahraich, the birthplace of Rashtriya Nayaka Maharaja Suheldev and the sage sages who meditated with their might, paid homage to the motherland," PM Modi said."Goswami Tulsidas ji says in Ram Charit Manas - Ritu Basant Bah Trivedi Bayari That is, in the spring, three types of air are blowing cold, soft and fragrant. Every part of life is being enjoyed in this air, in this season, from fields, barns, gardens, gardens," PM Modi said, marking his celebration for the spring season.Paying tribute to Maharaja Suheldev, PM Modi said, "Today I have the privilege of laying the foundation stone of the grand memorial of Maharaja Suheldev ji in Bahraich."King Suheldev, an icon of the Rajbhar community, had defeated and killed the Ghaznavid general Ghazi Saiyyad Salar Masud in a battle on the banks of the Chittora lake in Bahraich in 1033."This modern and grand monument, the development of the historic Chittaura Lake, will enhance the blessings of Maharaja Suheldev on Bahraich and inspire generations to come," the prime minister said.Lauding Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath for his handling of coronavirus disease outbreak in the state, PM Modi said, "The way the work was done in Uttar Pradesh during the Corona period is significant. Imagine how things would have been done at the national, international level if the situation in UP had worsened. But Yogi ji's entire team managed to show the situation in the best manner," PM Modi said. The prime minister said that the state has not only succeeded in saving the lives of more and more people, but UP has also done a commendable job in providing employment to the returned workers.Governor Anandiben Patel and chief minister Yogi Adityanath were present at the programme organised in Bahraich on the occasion of birth anniversary of Maharaja Suheldev.The projects will focus on the development of various tourist amenities including a cafeteria, guest house and a children's park.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-launches-development-projects-on-maharaja-suheldev-s-birth-anniversary-101613454814196.html
16-02-2021||India||Indian-origin Preeti Sinha to lead UN Capital Development Fund||The UN Capital Development Fund has appointed Indian-origin investment and development banker Preeti Sinha as its Executive Secretary, whose focus will be on providing micro-finance assistance to women, youth, small and medium-sized enterprises in under-served communities.Sinha commenced her tenure as UNCDF Executive Secretary, the highest leadership rank in the institution, on Monday.Established in 1966, the New York-headquarted organisation provides micro-finance access to Least Developed Countries (LDCs), with the mandate to unlock the full potential of public and private finance.She will "oversee the organisation's efforts to deliver scalable impact in order to make the international financial architecture work for the world's frontier and pre-frontier markets; with a specific emphasis on supporting sustainable development for women, youth, small and medium-sized enterprises, smallholder farmers, and other traditionally underserved communities."In a statement, Sinha said her goal would be to make 'C' in UNCDF (capital) to be "highly catalytic in mobilising manifold the public and private finance for the LDCs it serves and in developing a new era of engagement with capital markets in 2021 and onwards."Sinha succeeds Judith Karl, who retired in February after concluding her 30-year career in the United Nations, the agency said.Welcoming Sinha, UNDP Administrator Achim Steiner said: "UNCDF's support for the world's Least Developed Countries is critical, and I look forward to continuing the strong partnership between our organisations into the future”.Sinha will lead UNCDF's work to harness the untapped growth potential of the LDCs, to enable and empower communities, local governments and small businesses to address the economic impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic while building more resilient and inclusive economies, the agency said.As Executive Secretary, Sinha will “oversee UNCDF’s ‘last mile’ finance models that unlock public and private resources, especially at the domestic level, to reduce poverty and support local economic development.”She has three decades of global experience across investment and development finance during which she managed institutional public and private development capital.The UNCDF statement said Sinha served as CEO and President of FFD Financing for Development LLC, a specialist development finance firm in Geneva, focusing on resource mobilisation, donor relations, innovative capital markets, partnerships, strategy, business development, and impact investment advisory to finance the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).Previously, she managed the YES Global Institute, a practising private sector think-tank for socio-economic development in New Delhi, building the impact investment ecosystem in India, the agency said, adding that she also served in senior resource mobilisation roles at the African Development Bank.Sinha graduated from the Harvard Kennedy School of Government Executive Education program in Public Financial Management.She holds a Master's in Global Leadership from the World Economic Forum and a Master's in Public and Private Management (MPPM)/MBA from the Yale School of Management.She is an alumnus of Dartmouth College, where she completed her Bachelor of Arts in Economics and Computer Science.UNCDF ""makes public and private finance work for the world's 46 least developed countries (LDCs) to harness their untapped growth potential.”Its programmes "help to empower women, and are designed to catalyse larger capital flows from the private sector, national Governments and development partners, for maximum impact towards the internationally agreed developments goals.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indianorigin-preeti-sinha-to-lead-un-capital-development-fund-101613455106035.html
16-02-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi again targets Centre over Pulwama terror attack, says PM was busy shooting a film||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday raked the Pulwama terror attack and slammed the government for not acting on actionable inputs that could have averted the attack.The attack took place in Pulwama on February 14, 2019 when 40 personnel of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) were killed after a suicide bomber rammed an IED-laden vehicle into the security convoy carrying them. The convoy of 78 buses carrying 2,500 CRPF personnel was moving from Jammu towards Srinagar."On 14th Feb 2019, the PM was busy shooting a film having ignored prior intelligence inputs and leaving our jawans to die in Pulwama. Why were actionable intelligence inputs ignored," questioned Gandhi.On 14th Feb 2019, the PM was busy shooting a film having ignored prior intelligence inputs and leaving our jawans to die in Pulwama. Why were actionable intelligence inputs ignored? pic.twitter.com/XZWKuaW4UGThe attack occurred after a 22-year-old suicide bomber Adil Ahmad Dar drove an explosive-laden Maruti Eeco car through one of the alleyways onto the highway at around 3pm and rammed his vehicle into a bus carrying the CRPF troopers. The impact of the crash and explosives was such that within seconds, the bus was reduced to a mangled heap of metal and 40 troopers were blown up.Also read | ‘Prime time minister continued shooting for film after Pulwama attack’: Rahul Gandhi attacks PM Narendra ModiAfter the terror attack, Gandhi kept up with his attacks on Centre by asking a series of questions in a veiled reference to the allegations that the BJP might have benefitted from the dastardly attacks. Almost a week after the attack, Gandhi who was the Congress president then had said the “prime time minister” continued shooting for a film."There was an ocean of pain in the country’s hearts and in the homes of martyrs and he was smiling and doing a photoshoot in the waters," Gandhi had said on Twitter with the hashtag ‘PhotoShootSarkar’.पुलवामा में 40 जवानों की शहादत की खबर के तीन घंटे बाद भी ‘प्राइम टाइम मिनिस्टर’ फिल्म शूटिंग करते रहे।देश के दिल व शहीदों के घरों में दर्द का दरिया उमड़ा था और वे हँसते हुए दरिया में फोटोशूट पर थे।#PhotoShootSarkar pic.twitter.com/OMY7GezsZNSenior Congress leader BK Hariprasad had also alleged there was a “match-fixing” between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Pakistani counterpart Imran Khan which allowed the Pulwama terror attack to occur.Pakistan-based terrorist group Jaish-e-Muhammed claimed responsibility for the Pulwama terror attack after repeated denials from Pakistan. The explosives used in the attack were found to be ammonium nitrate, nitroglycerin and RDX after a forensic investigation. The investigation also confirmed the identity of the suicide bomber through DNA matching with that of his father.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-again-targets-centre-over-pulwama-terror-attack-says-pm-was-busy-shooting-a-film-101613452870572.html
16-02-2021||India||Ramlala gets first set of khadi silk garments on Basant Panchami today||Fashion designer Manish Tripathi has designed khadi silk garments for the idol of Ramlala, the child Lord Ram, at Ayodhya in collaboration with Uttar Pradesh’s Khadi and Village Industries Board, an official said.“[Uttar Pradesh] Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday unveiled the Project Ramalala garments at his official residence... Ramlala will get the first set of these clothes--yellow in colour--today [Tuesday] on the occasion of Basant Panchami,” said the Khadi department’s additional chief secretary, Navneet Sehgal. He added clothes of colours signifying a particular day in a week have been prepared.In a statement, the board said it is proud to announce that women artisans have made the outfits from handwoven and handspun khadi.Also Read | UP woman set aside ₹5/day for 28 years for Ayodhya Ram Mandir constructionTripathi said during Lord Ram’s times, garments were made of handwoven fabrics. “Why should gods wear polyester? Khadi is the most ethical fabric and environmentally friendly.” Tripathi, who is from Lucknow and an alumnus of New Delhi’s National Institute of Fashion Technology, said he would like to see all temples shift to khadi garments for idols. :...[It] would further promote the use of khadi.”Tripathi said each day of the week is associated with a particular colour, derived from a planet or its dedication to a deity in the Hindi pantheon. “Embracing the colours of the week aligns and harnesses the subtle power of these influences on the mind, body, and emotions.”He said red is the colour of Tuesday but because of Basant Panchami, yellow has been chosen for the day. “Otherwise, the normal scheme of colours that Ramlala would wear is white on Mondays, red on Tuesdays, green on Wednesdays, yellow on Thursdays, cream on Friday, blue on Saturdays, and pink on Sundays.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ramlala-gets-first-set-of-khadi-silk-garments-on-basant-panchami-today-101613454955561.html
16-02-2021||India||JNU sedition case: Delhi court takes cognisance of chargesheet against Kanhaiya Kumar, others||A court here has taken cognisance of a chargesheet filed by the Delhi Police against former Jawaharlal Nehru University Students' Union (JNUSU) President Kanhaiya Kumar and nine others in a 2016 sedition case and summoned them on March 15.Chief Metropolitan Magistrate (CMM) Pankaj Sharma on Monday took the cognisance of the final report almost a year after the Delhi Police received requisite sanctions to prosecute the accused in the case, court sources said.Kumar and others, including former JNU students Umar Khalid and Anirban Bhattacharya, were accused of raising anti-India slogans.The other seven accused chargesheeted in the case are Kashmiri students Aquib Hussain, Mujeeb Hussain, Muneeb Hussain, Umar Gul, Rayeea Rassol, Bashir Bhat and Basharat, some of them were then studying in JNU, Aligarh Muslim University and Jamia Millia Islamia.As many as 36 others, including Communist Party of India (CPI) leader D Raja's daughter Aprajita, Shehla Rashid (then vice-JNUSU president), Rama Naga, Ashutosh Kumar and Banojyotsna Lahiri, all former students of JNU, have been named in column 12 of the chargesheet due to insufficient evidence against them.The accused have been charged with offences under sections 124A (sedition), 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), 471 (using as genuine a forged document or electronic record), 143 (punishment for being a member of an unlawful assembly), 149 (being a member of an unlawful assembly), 147 (punishment for rioting) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).A case was registered on February 11, 2016 under sections 124A and 120B of the IPC against unidentified people at the Vasant Kunj (north) Police Station, following complaints from Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP Maheish Girri and the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP), the student wing of the RSS.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jnu-sedition-case-delhi-court-takes-cognisance-of-chargesheet-against-kanhaiya-kumar-others-101613453693677.html
16-02-2021||India||Creative industries around Durga Puja in Bengal worth ₹32,377 crore: Report||The economic value of the creative industries that crop up around the Durga Puja – the biggest festival in West Bengal – is worth ₹32,377 crore, chief minister Mamata Banerjee said. The chief minister was citing a 2018 report that the state government had commissioned to find out the economic impact of Durga Puja. The study was conducted by experts from the British Council, IIT Kharagpur, and Queen Mary University in UK. “As per the report that was submitted on Monday, the economy of creative industries around Durga Puja is ₹32,377 crore, which is equal to $4.53 billion. This is a huge amount of money for a seven-day festival. It is comparable to the GDP of Maldives and around 2.5% of the GDP of West Bengal,” Banerjee told reporters at the state secretariat. Also Read | BJP cyber cell dialling professors, spreading rumours, says Bengal CM Mamata “This complex research, and as far as we know, the first of its kind in India done on this scale, combines both quantitative and qualitative analysis of the ecosystem of the economy that feeds the festival. It was done based on the same methodology that maps the Edinburgh and Rio festivals,” said Barbara Wickham, director of the British Council in India. Banerjee also said that her government would urge United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) to declare the week-long festival held every year around October as one of the best in the world. “We would urge UNESO to declare Durga Puja as one of the best festivals in the world,” she said at the state secretariat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/creative-industries-around-durga-puja-in-bengal-worth-rs-32-377-crore-report-101613453935505.html
16-02-2021||India||While India was making PPE kits, some were busy making 'toolkit': Minister||Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat on Monday said while India was making PPE kits for the world, some people were busy "making tool kit against Indians".His remarks came after Delhi Police arrested activist Disha Ravi from Bengaluru and alleged that she was involved in creating and sharing with climate activist Greta Thunberg the protest "toolkit" backing the farmers’ agitation with the aim of “tarnishing the image of India” and collaborated with pro-Khalistan elements."While India was making PPE KIT for the World, These ppl were making TOOL KIT against Indians. Shame!" Shekhawat tweeted.In another tweet, the Union Jal Shakti minister took a swipe at those who cited Ravi's age to question the police action against her."If age is the criteria then Param Veer Chakra Second Lt Arun Khetarpal, martyred at 21 is who I am proud of. Not some #toolkit propagandists!" Shekhawat said.Non-bailable warrants have also been issued against lawyer Nikita Jacob and engineer Shantanu, who are absconding.On January 11, 15 days ahead of the Republic Day violence in the national capital, the two attended a Zoom meeting organised by pro-Khalistani group Poetic Justice Foundation, said Joint Commissioner of Police (Cyber) Prem Nath at a press conference earlier in the day.The meeting decided the modalities to create the toolkit titled "Global Farmer Strike" and "Global Day of Action, 26 January", Nath said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/while-india-was-making-ppe-kits-some-were-busy-making-toolkit-minister-101613452776065.html
16-02-2021||India||Coronavirus cases in Mumbai on the rise: List of hotspots||At a time when the number of Covid-19 cases are on a decline across the country, the spike in Maharashtra is a matter of concern for authorities. Union health ministry has said that Maharashtra, along with two other states, has a high Covid-19 caseload. On February 14, the state reported more than 4,000 Covid-19 cases after a gap of 39 days, while its capital Mumbai reported over 600 cases after a month.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19Though there was a decline in the number of Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra the next day, the number was still above 3,000, which led deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar to say that the government may have to take some harsh decisions.Also Watch | Covid update: 18-19 vaccines in India pipeline; IIT on virus life; SII promiseState capital Mumbai has recorded a total of 3,14,569 coronavirus cases. The total number of active cases in the metropolitan stands at 5,531, as of February 15.Apart from Mumbai, Pune and Amravati, cities in the Vidarbha region also reported more than 400 cases on Monday.Here is the list of Covid hotspots in Mumbai, as of February 14:> Borivali has the highest number of active Covid-19 cases - 408 - and has recorded most number of deaths (643) till date, according to Maharashtra government records.> KW ward consisting of Andheri West, Jogeshwari West, and Vile Parle West has the second most active coronavirus cases - 378 - while it has recorded 573 deaths. On Sunday, 100 buildings were sealed in the ward to contain the spread of the disease.> Kandivali and Charkop are ranked next with the most number of cases. Active cases amounted to 345, while deaths amounted to 552, according to state government.> Malad, Manori, Marve, Aksa, and Madh falling under P/North ward is ranked next. With a total caseload of 18,946.> Andheri East, Jogeshwari East, and Vile Parle East under K/East ward had reported 338 active coronavirus cases.Also Read | Maharashtra sees spike Covid-19 cases: Here’s what we know> Mulund has reported 292 active coronavirus cases and 370 deaths. Mulund also has the largest number of sealed buildings. 202 buildings were sealed in the ward as of Sunday to contain the spread. The growth rate of new cases amounted to 0.25 per cent in the ward.> Ghatkopar, Vidyavihar and Pant Nagar under ward N has 162 sealed buildings. 14 slums and chawls in the ward are containment zones. The ward has reported 281 active cases and 594 deaths.> Bhandup, Powai, Kanjurmarh, Vikhroli and Nahur under ward S has 10 slums and chawls under containment zone. The ward had 281 active cases as of Sunday and has reported 720 deaths till date.> Chembur, Sindhi Society, Chheda Nagar and Tilak Nagar under ward M/West has reported the highest growth rate of new cases in the metropolitan.The recovery rate of the Mumbai district is 94 per cent, while the doubling rate of the new cases is reported to be 455 days, as per BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). The district has a total 85 active containment zones and 992 sealed buildings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-cases-in-mumbai-on-the-rise-list-of-hotspots-101613448654749.html
16-02-2021||India||7 rescued after bus with 54 onboard falls into canal in Madhya Pradesh, search underway||A bus carrying nearly 54 passengers fell into a canal in Madhya Pradesh’s Sidhi on Tuesday after the driver lost control, reported news agency ANI. Seven people have been rescued so far and search is underway for the rest.The bus was on its way to Satna from Sidhi when the incident occurred.More details are awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/7-rescued-after-bus-with-54-onboard-falls-into-canal-in-madhya-pradesh-search-underway-101613452010487.html
16-02-2021||India||Uttarakhand glacier burst: Two more bodies recovered, death toll reaches 58||Rescuers in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli recovered two more bodies from the 1.7km long tunnel at the NTPC’s hydropower project at Tapovan on Tuesday morning, taking the toll from the flash floods in the region on February 7 to 58 even as 146 people remained missing.About 35 workers are feared to be trapped in the tunnel and rescuers have so far recovered 11 bodies. District magistrate Swati Bhadauria said, “Till Tuesday morning, 58 bodies have been recovered including 11 from the tunnel...”Also Read | Will form dept to monitor glaciers via satellite: Minister after Chamoli tragedyShe said 29 of the bodies have been identified. “The search and rescue operation is still on inside the tunnel where rescuers have succeeded in clearing muck up to about 146 metres but are facing difficulty due to heavy muck inside.”A team of rescuers is clearing sludge from another small underground tunnel beneath the 1.7 km tunnel where about 30 of the total 35 workers were feared trapped.The rescuers vertically drilled the required depth of 12.7 metres to reach the smaller tunnel on Friday. Apart from the tunnel, they are also clearing the muck from the Rishi Ganga dam and Reni village to find the missing people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-glacier-burst-two-more-bodies-recovered-death-toll-reaches-58-101613452255476.html
16-02-2021||India||SC pulls up FB, WhatsApp over privacy: Key takeaways from proceedings||The Supreme Court on Monday told WhatsApp and Facebook that Indians value their privacy more than the trillions of dollars the social media firms were worth. Here is what we know about the court proceedings in the matter:• “People in India have grave apprehensions about the loss of privacy. You may be a $2-3 trillion company, but people value their privacy more than that. And it is our duty to protect people’s privacy,” the court observed.• The court cited some reports to highlight concerns people had about their privacy. “You better clarify all this. People think that when ‘A’ messages ‘B’ and ‘B’ messages ‘C’, the whole thing is read by the Facebook,” the bench told the lawyers for the tech firms, issuing notices to them.• In January, WhatsApp renewed its terms of service and privacy policy, which were to initially come into effect on February 8, but have since been deferred to May 15. • The company said it will share details about users’ conversations with business accounts, and that accepting these terms were mandatory. Also Read | SC tells WhatsApp to give undertaking on data privacy• Anyone not agreeing to the terms will need to delete their accounts, the company said at the time, triggering a seeming shift by many to rivals such as Telegram and Signal. • WhatsApp and Facebook sought to argue that the apprehension over the privacy policy was a “red herring”.• The Union government, represented by solicitor general Tushar Mehta, urged the top court to scrutinise the 2021 policy instead of waiting for a high court to decide. • “Right to privacy is a fundamental right and they (WhatsApp and Facebook) must protect Indians’ rights. They cannot share data of Indians. They cannot compromise with the privacy right of Indians,” Mehta submitted. • Appearing for petitioner Karmanya Singh Sareen, senior lawyer Shyam Divan questioned WhatsApp over lowering the privacy standards. • He pointed out that since WhatsApp had deferred its new policy till May 15, the Supreme Court should decide its validity before that. • Senior advocates Kapil Sibal, Arvind Datar, Mukul Rohatgi, and Sidharth Luthra, who appeared for WhatsApp and Facebook, sought to emphasise that the social media entities were functioning within the bounds of the Indian laws.• During a hearing on Friday, the apex court shot down submissions by WhatsApp and its parent company Facebook that the apex court did not require to examine the 2021 privacy policy since the Delhi High Court was hearing a separate bunch of challenges to the same policy. • The bench took note that a previous petition raising similar issues regarding the 2016 privacy policy of WhatsApp was pending before a Constitution bench, and commented that it was not appropriate for a high court to deal with the issues that were already pending before the Supreme Court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-pulls-up-fb-whatsapp-over-privacy-key-takeaways-from-proceedings-101613451475124.html
16-02-2021||India||Chamoli glacier burst: NTPC to give ₹20 lakh compensation to victims’ kin||The NTPC will provide ₹20 lakh each to the families of the contract labourers killed in flash floods at the under-construction Tapovan Vishnugad hydroelectric project in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli district on February 7.“While NTPC is extending a compensation of ₹20 lakh to the immediate family of the contract labourers of the agency engaged in construction of NTPC project, the State and Central Governments have separately announced compensation package of ₹4 lakh and ₹2 lakh, respectively. Further, compensation against PF and Employees’ Compensation Act covered under statutory provisions of the workers in the range of ₹5 lakh to ₹15 lakh will also be made available,” the NTPC said in a statement on Monday.A week after the rescue operation was started in the 1.7 kilometre-long main tunnel of the NTPC’s hydel power project, the rescue agencies recovered five bodies till Sunday afternoon. Seven other bodies were recovered elsewhere taking the death toll to 50. About 154 people are still missing.Also Read | Will form dept to monitor glaciers via satellite: Minister after Chamoli tragedy“NTPC Ltd has fast-tracked all modalities and procedures required for distribution of compensation to the immediate families of those who lost their lives in the natural disaster that struck Tapovan project in Chamoli District on February 7 even as rescue operation continues in full swing with high-end machinery,” the statement said.It added a dedicated taskforce from NTPC has been working round-the-clock on the modalities including collating necessary information with regard to every missing worker and liaisoning with district administration to fast-track compensation distribution.“While dedicated teams from NTPC are managing the entire rescue operation behind the scene by assisting the rescue teams, the company airlifted machinery including high-end submersible slush removal pumps to increase the pace of operation. The diversion of river course from the left bank to right bank and approach to desilting basin from upstream is also being done,” it said.NTPC said the diversion of the river course is necessary to ensure that water from Dhauliganga does not enter the tunnel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chamoli-glacier-burst-ntpc-to-give-rs-20-lakh-compensation-to-victims-kin-101613450815810.html
16-02-2021||India||Govt liberalises mapping: Key things to know about the move||The government on Monday liberalised regulations on geospatial data. It allowed private companies to conduct surveying and mapping without prior approvals and sharing the data for various everyday applications, from logistics and transport to road safety and e-commerce. Here is what we know about the move:• Under the new policy, geospatial data from government agencies such as the Survey of India and the Indian Space Research Organisation will also be made available to public and private companies. • The government has said the move will provide an impetus to Digital India. Also Read | PM Modi to address webinar for effective implementation of budget• In a tweet, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said liberalising policies governing the acquisition and production of geospatial data is a massive step in the vision for an Aatmanirbhar Bharat or Self-Reliant India.• “The reforms will unlock tremendous opportunities for our country’s start-ups, private sector, public sector and research institutions to drive innovations and build scalable solutions. This will also generate employment and accelerate economic growth,” tweeted Modi.• The new guidelines will allow an increase in the scale, speed, and accuracy of mapping. • Indian entities will require no prior approvals, security clearances, licenses for acquisition and production of geospatial data and geospatial data services, including maps.• The government estimates that the new guidelines will boost the geospatial data sector to a value of ₹1 lakh crore and create jobs for 2.2 million people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-liberalises-mapping-key-things-to-know-about-the-move-101613449315175.html
16-02-2021||India||Maharashtra sees spike Covid-19 cases: Here’s what we know||Maharashtra has been the worst Covid-19-hit state in India. It has again reported a resurgence of new cases that ended a three-month-long plateau. Here is what we know about the spike:• The spike is particularly noticeable in Mumbai and surrounding areas two weeks after the local trains, considered the lifeline of the city, were restarted for the general public from February 1.• At least 15 million people have travelled on the local trains over the last two weeks.• There is no cap in Mumbai for passengers per coach in local trains. Social distancing norms such as masks and social distancing have been requested, but not enforced.Also Read | New system for identifying drugs to repurpose in fight against Covid developed• Mumbai has been reporting over 500 cases since February 10• On Sunday, the city reported 645 Covid-19 cases followed by four deaths.• Overall, Mumbai has reported 314,076 Covid-19 cases and 11,419 deaths.• Mumbai is one of the worst-hit regions in the country with a case fatality rate (CFR) of 3.63% — more than double the national average of 1.43%.• Lifting of most curbs in recent weeks, and laxity in Covid-appropriate behaviour have also been blamed for the spike.• Over the last week, Maharashtra reported 21,356 new infections, the highest in any week since the week ending January 17.• On Sunday, the state reported 4,092 new cases. It was the highest single-day cases since January 6.• And on Monday, when numbers generally dip due to a drop in testing numbers over the weekend, there were 3,365 new cases. They were the most reported on a Monday since January 4.• The state government has ruled out reimposing restrictions on movement and said it is focusing on preventive measures.• The state government has directed all district collectors and commissioners to strictly follow the 3T principle (testing, tracking, and treatment) and take measures to ensure Covid-appropriate behaviour is followed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-cases-rise-in-maharashtra-here-s-what-we-know-about-the-spike-101613448715194.html
16-02-2021||India||President Kovind extends greeting on Vasant Panchami, Saraswati Puja||President Ram Nath Kovind on Tuesday extended greetings to the people of the country on the occasion of Vasant Panchami and Saraswati Puja."Hearty greetings to all countrymen on the auspicious occasion of Vasant Panchami and Saraswati Puja. I wish that the arrival of spring brings happiness and prosperity in the lives of all the countrymen," President Kovind tweeted (in Hindi).Aside from President Kovind, Union Home Minister Amit Shah also wished the people of the country on the festival."Hearty greetings to all countrymen on the holy festival of Basant Panchami, a symbol of new zeal and new energy. Mother Goddess Saraswati wishes to provide knowledge, prosperity and good health in everyone's life," Shah tweeted (in roughly translated Hindi).Basant Panchami, the festival which marks the arrival of the spring season in India, would be celebrated on February 16, this year. Held on the fifth day (Panchami) of the Magha maas (month), Basant Panchami is also celebrated as Saraswati Puja in some parts of the country.As per the Hindu Mythology, Lord Brahma is believed to have created the universe on this day.Apart from that, the reason for the celebration of Saraswati Puja in some parts of the country is because it was believed that on this day Goddess Durga gave birth to Goddess Saraswati. The significance of the occasion is huge in Hindu culture, as the day is considered extremely auspicious to start new work, get married or perform house warming ceremony.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/president-kovind-extends-greeting-on-vasant-panchami-saraswati-puja-101613444913163.html
16-02-2021||India||Reconsider decision on online civic body meetings: Bombay HC to state||The Bombay high court on Monday directed the Urban Development Department (UDD), government of Maharashtra, to reconsider its decision to continue the general body meetings of corporations, municipal councils and nagar panchayats through video conference or online mode. The HC issued the directions while hearing two petitions filed by councillors of Thane Municipal Corporation against the UDD decision and asked them to inform the court before the next hearing on February 23. A division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni was hearing the petitions filed by the councillors Vikrant Chavan and Ashraf Pathan seeking directions to the state government to permit general body meetings in the physical mode.Also Read | Kangana seeks quashing of FIR, tells court her tweets did not incite violenceAdvocate Saurabh Butala, representing Chavan, referred to the January 31 decision of the Centre which allowed cinema halls/ theatres/ multiplexes to function at 100% audience capacity in non-containment zones with social distancing protocols and said, “In view of this, there could hardly be any plausible reason as to why the general body meetings cannot be conducted in the physical presence of all the councillors, more so considering that only 131 Councillors of the Thane Municipal Corporation would be required to transact the business of the meeting.”Advocate SM Oak, representing Pathan, pointed to a letter written by TMC mayor to the state government on December 9 wherein he had sought permissions to conduct the general body meeting at theatres in Thane. He stressed that the letter had assured of taking sufficient precautionary measures to safeguard councilors from contracting Covid.The advocates also pointed out that Parliament session was held in the physical mode and the Maharashtra assembly had also convened in the offline mode.The bench observed, “The pandemic in the state is well under control. Activities have opened up in almost all spheres. The secretariat, Courts and local bodies are also performing their statutory duties. As submitted by the state Thane Municipal Corporation area does not have any containment zone. In view thereof, we are of the considered opinion that there could hardly be any justification for not allowing the General Body meetings to be held in the physical presence of all the Councillors.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/reconsider-decision-on-online-civic-body-meetings-bombay-hc-to-state-101613448116255.html
16-02-2021||India||India's exports up 6.16 pc in January; trade deficit narrows to USD 14.54 billion||India's exports in January 2021 were USD 27.45 billion, as compared to USD 25.85 billion in January 2020, exhibiting a positive growth of 6.16 per cent, said Union Ministry of Commerce and Industry informed on Monday."In Rupee terms, exports were Rs. 2,00,661.11 crore in January 2021, as compared to ₹1,84,369.73 crore in January 2020, registering a positive growth of 8.84 per cent," the commerce ministry release said.Aside from the exports, the trade deficit for January 2021 was estimated at USD 14.54 billion as against the deficit of USD 15.30 billion in January 2020, which is a decrease of (-) 4.95 per centIndia's imports also grew for the second straight month, signifying recovery in domestic demand. "Imports in January 2021 were USD 41.99 billion (Rs.3,06,951.56 crore), which is an increase of 2.03 per cent in dollar terms and 4.60 per cent in Rupee terms over imports of USD 41.15 billion ( ₹2,93,452.69Crore) in January 2020," the release said."Cumulative value of imports for the period April-January 2020-21 was USD300.26 billion ( ₹22,29,742.05 crore), as against USD 405.33 billion ( ₹28,55,992.59 crore) during the period April-January 2019-20, registering a negative growth of (-) 25.92 per cent in Dollar terms and negative growth of (-) 21.93 per cent in Rupee terms," the release further said.Taking merchandise and services together, overall trade deficit for April-January 2020-21is estimated at USD1.87 billion as compared to the deficit of USD72.40 billion in April-January 2019-20, the ministry said.Non-petroleum and Non-Gems and Jewellery exports in January 2021 were USD 22.44 billion, as compared to USD19.79 billion in January 2020, registering a positive growth of 13.40 per cent. Non-petroleum and Non-Gems and Jewellery exports in April-January 2020-21 were USD 188.77 billion, as compared to USD 197.94 billion for the corresponding period in 2019-20, which is a decrease of (-) 4.63 per cent.Oil imports in January 2021 were USD 9.40 billion (Rs. 68,743.95 crore), which was 27.72 per cent lower in Dollar terms (25.90 per cent lower in Rupee terms), compared to USD 13.01 billion (Rs. 92,773.42 crore) in January 2020.The release said that oil imports in April-January 2020-21 were USD 63.09 billion ( ₹4,68,720.80 crore) which was 42.50 per cent lower in Dollar terms (39.39 per cent lower in Rupee terms) compared to USD 109.72 billion ( ₹7,73,394.28 crore), over the same period last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-exports-up-6-16-pc-in-january-trade-deficit-narrows-to-usd-14-54-billion-101613444355181.html
16-02-2021||India||Third Scorpene class submarine delivered to Indian Navy||The Mazagaon Dock Limited (MDL) on Monday delivered the third Scorpene-class submarine to the navy after two years of sea trials. The submarine was launched in January 2018 for sea trials and will be commissioned as INS Karanj, said a naval officer.MDL chairman and managing director Vice Admiral Narayan Prasad (retired) and Rear Admiral B Sivakumar, Western Naval Command’s chief of staff officer (technical), signed the acceptance document.INS Karanj is India’s third of the six Scorpene-class submarines with superior stealth and combat capabilities. The diesel-electric attack submarine has been built under MDL’s Project-75 in collaboration with a French firm.Also Read | INS Viraat’s dismantling to be kept on hold, says Supreme Court to ownerThe first such submarine INS Kalvari was launched in October 2015 and commissioned in December 2017, five years behind the schedule. The second, INS Khanderi, was launched in January 2017 for sea trials and commissioned in September 2019. INS Vela was launched in May 2019 and is undergoing sea trials. INS Vagir was launched in November 2020 and is also undergoing sea trials. The sixth submarine INS Vagsheer is at the stage of outfitting.Scorpene submarines can undertake multifarious missions like anti-surface and anti-submarine warfare as well as intelligence gathering, mine laying, area surveillance, etc.Also Read | Indian military sees threefold increase in women personnel in 6 yearsThey are designed to operate in all theatres, with means provided to ensure interoperability.The state-of-the-art technology utilised for the construction of Scorpene class submarines has ensured superior stealth features such as advanced acoustic silencing techniques, low radiated noise levels, hydro-dynamically optimized shape, and the ability to launch an attack on the enemy using precision-guided weapons. The attack can be mounted with both torpedoes and tube-launched anti-ship missiles, at the same time as underwater or on the surface.The stealth of this strong platform is enhanced by the special attention given to various signatures. These stealth features give it invulnerability, unmatched by most submarines.“Two SSK submarines built by MDL in 1992 and 1994 are still in service after more than 25 years, a clear testimony of MDL’s quality of construction. MDL has also achieved expertise in submarine refits by successfully executing the medium Refit-cum-Upgradation of all the four SSK class submarines of the Indian Navy. It is presently carrying out the Medium Refit and Life Certification of INS Shishumar, the first SSK submarine,” said an MDL statement.“MDL has always been at the forefront of the nation’s progressive indigenous warship building programme. With the construction of the Leander and Godavari class frigates, Khukri class Corvettes, Missile Boats, Delhi and Kolkata class destroyers, Shivalik class Stealth Frigates, the SSK submarines and the Scorpene submarine under its belt, the history of modern day MDL almost maps the history of indigenous warship building in India.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/third-scorpene-class-submarine-delivered-to-indian-navy-101613446494802.html
16-02-2021||India||After Chamoli tragedy, minister says will form dept to monitor glaciers via satellite||Following the calamity in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli district, irrigation minister Satpal Maharaj on Monday said that all angles must be probed and added that a department would be formed to monitor all the glaciers through satellite.“All angles (related to the Chamoli glacier burst) should be investigated. We will form a department so that we can monitor and study all the glaciers through satellite,” he told news agency ANI.The minister’s statement comes as the toll due to the flash floods in Chamoli following the glacier burst last week has climbed to 58. A total of 11 more bodies have been recovered from the 1.7 kilometre-long Tapovan rescue tunnel in Joshimath and 146 people are still missing, ANI reported on Tuesday.Indo-Tibetan Border Police personnel along with the National Disaster Response Force and other sister agencies have been conducting search and rescue operations in the Chamoli district for the past 10 days.On Monday, another team of rescuers was clearing sludge from another small underground tunnel beneath the main tunnel where about 30 of the total 35 workers were feared to be trapped.Rescuing the trapped people is now possible only with the help of excavators, Chamoli District Magistrate Swati S Bhadauria told PTI. When asked about the chances of people surviving who are still missing or trapped in the tunnel, the district magistrate said, "We must always try to be hopeful when the circumstances are adverse."Even as hopes dim, families of some of the missing people continue to remain at the rescue site near the tunnel, as they gather the courage to take a look every time a body is brought out. However, many are beginning now to return to their homes, according to PTI.According to NTPC officials cited by PTI, bodies pulled out from the tunnel till Monday appear to be of workers who ran towards its mouth in an attempt to get out but got bogged down in the slush that was gushing in.The last rites of those pulled out dead are being carried out after samples are taken for DNA tests to help establish their identities.As relief efforts continue, kits with foodgrain and other essentials are being supplied to residents to a dozen villages that were cut off from the district headquarters after the disaster.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-chamoli-tragedy-minister-says-will-form-dept-to-monitor-glaciers-via-satellite-101613445989287.html
16-02-2021||India||Low turnout for 9th round of Covid-19 vaccination in Uttar Pradesh||Only 69,742 health workers (27.51 %) out of the targeted 253,538 were given Covid-19 vaccines in the ninth round of the vaccination campaign in Uttar Pradesh on Monday at 1,537 vaccination centres till 5 pm, according to official data.Officials said 22,620 health workers, who got their first doses on January 16, were planned to get their second on Monday. They added 230,918 health workers, who missed the vaccination in the earlier rounds, were also listed for jabs on Monday. Officials said around 90% (20,000) of the health workers received their second doses.Also Read | More vaccines will get Govt nod in coming months: health minister Harsh VardhanThere was a much lower turnout of health workers (49,384) for the first dose. The beneficiaries, who got the first vaccine shot on Monday, will be given the second dose on March 15. The next round of vaccination for frontline workers is scheduled for Thursday.Healthcare workers, who got their doses on January 22, will be given the second doses on February 19.All the beneficiaries vaccinated on Monday were safe and healthy, said a health department official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/low-turnout-for-9th-round-of-covid-19-vaccination-in-uttar-pradesh-101613446014944.html
16-02-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Petrol price inches closer to ₹90-mark in Delhi after fresh hike||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Petrol price inches closer to ₹90-mark in Delhi after fresh hikeThe prices of petrol and diesel were hiked again by 30 paise and 35 paise by the oil marketing companies on Tuesday. This took the price of petrol to ₹89.29 per litre and diesel to ₹79.70 in Delhi. Read moreToolkit case: Bail pleas of Nikita Jacob, Shantanu Muluk in Bombay High Court todayThe Bombay High Court will on Tuesday hear the bail petitions of advocate and activist Nikita Jacob and Shantanu Muluk, who are facing arrest for their alleged involvement in preparing a toolkit that details digital support for farmers. Read moreAyush ministry , WHO collaborate for regional traditional medicine action planAyush ministry and World Health Organization South East-Asia Regional Office have signed a letter of exchange to implement its regional traditional medicine action plan. Read morePM Modi to address webinar for effective implementation of budget provisions in infrastructure sectorPrime Minister Narendra Modi will address a webinar to detail a roadmap for effective implementation of the provisions of Union Budget 2021-22 in development of infrastructure. Read more'I would love to credit him': R Ashwin names individual responsible for his batting resurgenceThat R Ashwin recorded his fifth Test century should not come as a surprise. India's premier spinner, who in fact, began his cricket career as an opening batsman was always a handy batsman. Read moreRandhir Kapoor calls birthday dinner with Kareena, Ranbir and others 'solemn affair': 'There was no celebration'Actor Randhir Kapoor has spoken about his birthday dinner with family on Sunday night. The veteran actor, who turned 74 on Monday, said it was a 'solemn affair'. Read moreSpecially-abled kid’s daily dance routine before school is a lesson on self-loveNeed some positivity to start your day? Look no further because this Instagram clip of a little boy is here to brighten up your day. Read moreWatch: Dinesh Trivedi on Trinamool Congress and corruption | On The Record||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-petrol-price-inches-closer-to-90-mark-in-delhi-after-fresh-hike-101613444735361.html
16-02-2021||India||Names of those involved in illegal liquor trade to be displayed in Bihar: CM||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar has said people involved in illegal liquor trade should be fearful while ordering the display of their names and punishment given to them at prominent places. He issued the order at a review of prohibition, excise and registration department’s working on Monday. Kumar said police personnel have taken oath pledging not to have liquor and those found doing so should be immediately suspended. Also Read | Bihar gets its act together for paddy procurement after Nitish Kumar’s warningB Kartikey Dhanji, excise commissioner and inspector general of registration, gave a presentation on the seizures, raids and destruction of seized liquor stock at the meeting. Alcohol was banned in Bihar in 2016.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/names-of-those-involved-in-illegal-liquor-trade-to-be-displayed-in-bihar-cm-101613445594751.html
16-02-2021||India||Kangana Ranaut seeks quashing of FIR for sedition, tells court her tweets did not incite violence||Actor Kangana Ranaut told the Bombay high court on Monday that her tweets never caused any violent reaction, hence the FIR against her for sedition by Mumbai Police should be quashed.The court was hearing a case against Ranaut and her sister Rangoli, who have been accused of promoting communal enmity through their posts.Ranaut's counsel Rizwan Siddique told a bench of Justices SS Shinde and Manish Pitale that the actor had not committed any wrong through her tweets."None of my tweets have invoked any reactions from the public. They will not attract a punishment as they were not followed by violence. What happened after the tweet? Was there any criminal act after my tweets?" Siddique said on behalf of Ranaut.He said the magistrate's court in suburban Bandra had erred in allowing registration of a FIR against Ranaut on charges including sedition.In October last year, Ranaut and her sister were booked for allegedly promoting enmity between communities through their remarks. The Bandra Police had booked them under Indian Penal Code's (IPC's) sections 153-A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race), 295-A (deliberate acts hurting religious sentiments) and 124-A (sedition) and 34 (common intention).The first information report (FIR) was registered following orders from a magistrate's court in Bandra after Munawwar Ali Sayyad, a casting director and fitness trainer, filed a complaint referring to tweets and other statements of Ranaut and her sister.In an affidavit filed in the high court earlier this month, Sayyad had said that among other things, Ranaut and Rangoli promoted "hatred and contempt, and incited disaffection towards the Maharashtra government," through their tweets.The high court will continue hearing the arguments on February 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kangana-ranaut-seeks-quashing-of-fir-for-sedition-tells-court-her-tweets-did-not-incite-violence-101613445037840.html
16-02-2021||India||PM Modi to lay foundation stone for king Suheldev's statue in Uttar Pradesh||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will virtually lay a foundation stone for a statue of the 11th-century warrior king Suheldev of Shravasti in Uttar Pradesh’s Bahraich, on the backward class icon’s birth anniversary on Tuesday.Uttar Pradesh governor Anandiben Patel and chief minister Yogi Adityanath would be in Bahraich on the occasion as the state government looks to scale up the anniversary celebrations of the king, who, BJP leaders say was not given his due by past historians and governments.CM Yogi Adityanath has ordered that functions highlighting the glory and valour of the king, who was born into a backward caste, be held in every district of the state. On the occasion of Tuesday’s event, an announcement for the beautification of Chittora lake, Shravasti, too is expected.“King Suheldev had fought, defeated and killed the Ghaznavid general Ghazi Saiyyad Salar Masud in a famous battle held on the bank of Chittora lake in Bahraich in 1033. The battle was such that it is said that the whole of Masud’s army got eliminated in it,” a release issued by the UP government read.The complete project will include the installation of an equestrian statue of Maharaja Suheldev and the development of various tourist amenities like a cafeteria, guest house, and a children's park, an official said.Rajbhar community members, who consider Suheldev as their icon, constitute a significant percentage of the Purvanchal population and are regarded as the second politically dominant force to reckon with after the Yadavs in eastern Uttar Pradesh.Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP) chief and former UP minister Om Prakash Rajbhar had parted ways with the NDA and distanced himself from an event to pay tributes to Suheldev in Ghazipur ahead of the Lok Sabha polls in 2019, protesting he was not invited for the event well in time.Also Read: UP woman burnt to death by family over interfaith relationship: CopsAfter the Modi government came to power, the government took several steps to popularise Suheldev. In February 2016, BJP chief Amit Shah unveiled a statue of Suheldev and also launched a book on him in Bahraich district near the Indo-Nepal border, where the medieval king enjoys a legendary status.The Modi government earlier released a postal stamp after Suheldev and named a superfast train, ‘The Suheldev Express’. The tri-weekly covers the breadth of India’s most populous state from Ghazipur in Purvanchal to Anand Vihar in Delhi. Suheldev was a brave and extremely religious person who had great respect for saints and Hinduism, BJP leaders said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-lay-foundation-stone-for-king-suheldev-s-statue-in-uttar-pradesh-101613444721341.html
16-02-2021||India||PM Modi to address webinar for effective implementation of budget provisions in infrastructure sector||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address a webinar to detail a roadmap for effective implementation of the provisions of Union Budget 2021-22 in development of infrastructure. The Prime Minister will address the webinar that will involve more than 200 participants from across sectors on Tuesday at 4pm.It will have representatives from major financial institutions, funds, concessionaires and contractors, consultants and subject matter experts. The panelists will focus on sharing their insights pertaining to improvement of quality of infrastructure and speed up its development through advanced technology and attraction of greater investment in the sector.Also Read | Petrol price inches closer to ₹90-mark in Delhi after fresh hikeExperts in the infrastructure sector welcomed the budget presented by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on February 1, 2021 with open heart. They believe the finance minister has tried to revitalise the sector. In the budget speech Sitharaman had announced a 34 per cent increase in the capital expenditure for the sector including creation of special Development Financial Institutions to ease the funding for the infrastructural projects.The webinar will be followed by two parallel breakout sessions that will have discussion of senior officials from various ministries and cross-sectional experts with an aim to compile a list of implementable projects to fast-track implementation of the budget vision and draft an implementation roadmap. Ongoing consultations have also been planned with stakeholders on implementation of the finalized strategy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-address-webinar-for-effective-implementation-of-budget-provisions-in-infrastructure-sector-101613440887276.html
16-02-2021||India||Ayush ministry , WHO collaborate for regional traditional medicine action plan||Ayush ministry and World Health Organization South East-Asia Regional Office have signed a letter of exchange to implement its regional traditional medicine action plan. For this, an Ayush expert would be deputed to WHO’s regional traditional medicine programme, The plan that was signed on Monday focuses on safe and effective use of traditional medicine service, including Ayurveda and other Indian traditional systems of medicine, and its appropriate integration into national health care systems. “Efforts will also be made to strengthen capacities of countries of WHO South-East Asia in the area of traditional medicine,” WHO statement read.This partnership will help countries in the South-East Asia Region develop policies and implement action plans to strengthen the role of traditional medicine.Also Read | Qualified Ayush doctors can prescribe immunity boosters for Covid patients: SC“The close collaboration of WHO and the Government of India goes back many decades, to the Basic Agreement both parties concluded on July 16, 1952, to fulfil mutual responsibilities in a spirit of friendly cooperation. Today’s agreement will formally extend this cooperation into the area of traditional medicine, which is a valuable tool in our shared quest to achieve universal health coverage,” said Poonam Khetrapal Singh, regional director, WHO South East-Asia Regional Office .Ayush ministry and WHO will assist countries develop appropriate policy or regulation framework, exchange of information and activities performed for integration of traditional medicine in public health and dissemination of information to the community.Also Read | Centre plans push for Ayurvedic, allopathic tourism in country“Ayush ministry has already had various interaction with the WHO in the field of Ayurveda, Yoga and other Indian traditional systems of medicine, and these Indian systems are getting more popular and being accepted as medicinal system in the South-East Asia, Africa, Europe, and Latin America etc. The partnership would work towards identifying challenges faced by the member countries of the region in regulating, integrating and further promoting traditional systems of medicine in their respective countries,” said Vaidya Rajesh Kotecha, Ayush secretary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ayush-ministry-who-collaborate-for-regional-traditional-medicine-action-plan-101613444275419.html
16-02-2021||India||FASTag mandatory from today; double toll fee for those without it||The FASTag service to digitally pay the toll tax on national highways is now live across the country. The vehicles trying to cross the toll plazas without it will now have to pay double fee as hybrid lanes have been discontinued.The Ministry of Road Transport and Highways has said made FASTags mandatory from February 15 midnight.Also Read: All you need to know about FASTags"As per NH Fee Rules 2008, any vehicle not fitted with FASTag or vehicle without valid, functional FASTag entering into the FASTag lane of the fee plaza shall pay a fee equivalent to two times of the fee applicable to that category," the ministry had said in a notification.This has been done to further promote fee payment through digital mode, reduce waiting time and fuel consumption, and provide for a seamless passage through the fee plazas.The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has issued directions to concessionaires and toll plaza operators that motorists without a FASTag must be directed to purchase one on the spot, activate it and then enter the toll plaza.The authorities have deployed additional personnel at toll plazas to guide motorists to FASTag sale point, set up at the spot, in case they don’t have one. On Monday, a large queue of commuters was witnessed at the FASTag counter at the Kheri Daula toll plaza near Gurugram in Haryana ahead of the end of the deadline.The ministry of road transport and highways had mandated FASTag for M&N categories of motor vehicles with effect from January 1 this year; it was extended to February 15 later.Category ‘M’ stands for a motor vehicle with at least four wheels used for carrying passengers and category ‘N’ stands for a motor vehicle with at least four wheels used for carrying goods, which may also carry persons in addition to goods.FASTag is a sticker attached to the windshield of your vehicle. It has a radio-frequency identification barcode that is linked to registration details of the vehicle. It is valid for five years.On passing a toll plaza, FASTag readers installed there will automatically deduct the required toll.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fastags-mandatory-from-today-double-toll-fee-for-those-without-it-101613443487218.html
16-02-2021||India||Toolkit case: Bail pleas of Nikita Jacob, Shantanu Muluk in Bombay High Court today||The Bombay High Court will on Tuesday hear the bail petitions of advocate and activist Nikita Jacob and Shantanu Muluk, who are facing arrest for their alleged involvement in preparing and a toolkit that details digital support for farmers protesting against Centre agricultural laws.The Delhi Police have issued a non-bailable warrant against Jacob and Muluk for their role in gathering support for the farmers’ protests on social media and sharing details with activists globally, including Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg.Jacob, in her statement to the police, has accepted calling for support for agitating farmers on social media. However, she denied sharing any information with Thunberg and added that the document was an “informational pack” and was not intended to incite violence. She told the police that the toolkit was being prepared by XR India volunteers for presenting the whole picture with a simple breakdown for an international audience.The activist has sought protection from arrest for four weeks, interim protection from any coercive action and a direction to the Delhi Police to share her with a copy of the FIR registered against her.The Delhi Police have alleged that Jacob and Muluk created the Google toolkit in collaboration with another 22-year-old activist Disha Ravi, who was arrested from Bengaluru on Saturday and was sent to five days in police custody by a court in Delhi.The police claim the information about the duo was revealed by Ravi during her interrogation in Bengaluru. “The email account created by Shantanu is the owner of this doc and all others are editors,” Prem Nath, joint commissioner of police of the cyber cell, said.The officer added that information from Jacob’s phone shows that she and Ravi had sent it to Thunberg on the Telegram app.According to police, Ravi had later asked the Swedish activist to delete the post carrying the toolkit, which “indicates a copycat execution of a conspiracy behind the January 26 violence”, after the document’s details accidentally got into the public domain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/toolkit-case-bail-pleas-of-nikita-jacob-shantanu-muluk-in-bombay-high-court-today-101613442510430.html
16-02-2021||India||IAF officer booked for sexual molestation by squadron leader in Jammu||An Indian Air Force (IAF) wing commander has been booked for allegedly molesting a woman squadron leader at the Satwari air force station in Jammu, police officials said on Monday. According to officials, the squadron leader filed a written complaint with the Satwari police on Thursday, accusing the wing commander of making “objectionable advances” towards her.An FIR under sections 354, 354 (A) and 509 of the IPC has been filed against the wing commander, an official familiar with the matter said.“However, the accused wing commander has obtained bail. We have initiated a probe into the matter,” he said.In her complaint, the woman has alleged that the accused made lewd remarks and touched her inappropriately.The woman also said that she has kept a record of indecent text and video messages that the accused sent her, the official said. “She also has some mobile recordings to substantiate her claims,” the officer said.Armed forces initiate a court of inquiry within the institution in such cases. In the instant case, the decision has to come from Western Air Command headquarters in Delhi after the completion of court of inquiry.The IAF did not respond to the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iaf-officer-booked-for-sexual-molestation-by-squadron-leader-in-jammu-101613442919814.html
16-02-2021||India||Indo-Pak wars' veteran retired Major General BK Mahapatra dies||Major General (retired) Basant Kumar Mahapatra, who had participated in 1962, 1965 and 1971 wars, died at a hospital here on Monday, family sources said.He was 87.Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik and Union Minister Dharmendra Pradhan condoled the death of the army veteran."Odisha mourns the sad demise of its illustrious son, Major General (Retd) Basant Kumar Mahapatra. The war veteran participated in many major battles the country has fought. He will always be remembered for his bravery, contribution to education & philanthropic activities. #RIP," Patnaik said on Twitter.Mahapatra's body was taken to his residence at Chandinichowk in Cuttack, the family sources said.Mohapatra was conferred with the Ati Vishisht Seva Medal (AVSM).After the retirement from the service, he was associated with Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan Centre for Communication and Management (BCCM) here, four DAV Public Schools in Cuttack and Tangi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indopak-wars-veteran-retired-major-general-bk-mahapatra-dies-101613441544773.html
16-02-2021||NA||Farm stir Highlights: Delhi police has led by example, says Union minister||The protest against the three farm laws entered into its twelfth week as farmers’ unions representatives continue demanding total repeal of the farm laws which were passed during the monsoon session last year in the Parliament.The farmers’ protests against the three laws took a fresh turn after the planned tractor rally taken out on January 26 turned violent. Delhi Police launched an investigation following the incident after which it has made several arrests.While farmer leaders condemned the violence and distanced themselves from figures like Deep Sidhu and Lakha Sidhana, it is the arrest of Bengaluru-based climate activist Disha Ravi that has led to widespread condemnation of the government. The 21-year-old was arrested by the Delhi Police and sent to five-day remand for her alleged role in editing and disseminating a ‘toolkit’ which was shared by Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg. The police believe that the ‘toolkit’ was designed to spread ‘disaffection and ill-will’ against India under the guise of supporting the protests by farmers.Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi addressed a Mahapanchayat in Bijnor on Tuesday. She is also slated to address two more Mahapanchayats over the course of the next two weeks. Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal is also scheduled to address Kisan Mahapanchayat later this month in UP later this month.Security remains tight at Delhi’s borders as farmers continue to protest against against the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance, and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.Follow LIVE updates from the protest against farm laws here:Follow all the updates here:Delhi police has led by example, says Union minister Kishen ReddyUnion minister G Kishen Reddy lauded the Delhi Police for showing patience, bravery and restraint during the Republic Day violence in Delhi and said the force has led by example, according to a statement. The minister of state for home was speaking at the 74th Raising Day of the Delhi Police.Centre yet to explain merits of farm laws to farmers, says RLDRashtriya Lok Dal vice president Jayant Chaudhary said on Tuesday that the Centre had not been able to explain the benefits of the farm laws to the protesting farmers. "Some people keep asking what is wrong with the laws, but I ask them what is good about the laws. The government has not been able to explain to farmers what good the new laws would do to them," he said. Farm leaders to hold meetings in West BengalBharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait said on Tuesday that farm leaders will hold meetings in poll bound West Bengal to raise awareness about issues the farmers there are facing, reported news agency PTI. "We will tour the entire nation, we will also go to West Bengal. Farmers in West Bengal are also facing problems. They are not getting good rates for their crops." Tikait was quoted by PTI.Bombay High Court reserves order on Nikita Jacob's bail pleaBombay High Court on Tuesday reserved order on activist Nikita Jacob's bail plea in the Toolkit case. Jacob was one of the editors of the toolkit doc. The Court has reserved her bail plea for tomorrow, reported ANI.Arrested activist Disha Ravi given access to copy of FIR, masks by Delhi CourtA Delhi court has allowed climate activist Disha Ravi access the copy of the FIR and other documents related to her arrest in the farmers' protest Toolkit case. The court has granted her access to warm clothes, masks, books etc, and allowed her to speak to her mother, other family members, reported ANI. Read MoreNew farm laws will benefit small, marginal farmers: PM ModiPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday asserted that the new farm reforms will benefit small and marginal farmers, and that farmers themselves have been exposing those spreading false information against agri laws, reports PTI.Delhi Commission for Women sends notice to police over Disha Ravi’s arrest, seeks detailed action taken reportDelhi Commission for Women sends notice to Dy Police Commissioner, Cyber Crime Cell, Delhi Police over Disha Ravi's arrest. Commission asks Police to provide copy of FIR, reasons for allegedly not producing her before local court for transit remand & detailed action taken report, reports ANI. Read moreShrivastava says activist arrested following procedureAs far as Disha's arrest is concerned, it was done as per the procedures. Law doesn't differentiate between a 22-yr-old & a 50-yr-old. She was produced before a court which sent her to 5-day Police custody. It's false when people say that there were lapses in the arrest: Delhi CP pic.twitter.com/PSBA1iM2ykDelhi Police commissioner said that there we no lapses in the arrest and further added it would be wrong to assume that. Tikait extends wishes of Basant Panchami to farmers' familiesबसंत पंचमी पर्व के अवसर पर रहबर-ए-आजम दीनबंधु सर छोटूराम जी के जयंती पर समस्त किसान परिवार की और से उन्हें कोटि-कोटि नमन ।#सरस्वती_पूजा #बसंतपंचमी2021He also remembered Deenbandhu Chottu Ram on his birth anniversary. Union minister praises Delhi Police for handling tractor rally violenceOn January 26, we witnessed how anti-India powers used farmers' protest to disrupt the law & order situation in Delhi. Despite their anti-national activities & provocative behaviour, Delhi Police exercised restraint and tackled the situation responsibly: MoS (Home) G Kishan ReddyUnion minister G Kishan Reddy said that Delhi Police officer showed restrain amid pressure and provocation and thwarted the 'anti-national' forces who tried to disrupt law and order situation.Sidhu remanded to police custody for 7-daysA Delhi Court remands Deep Sidhu, an accused in 26th January violence, to 7-day Police custody: Delhi Police SourcesThe actor is being probed for instigating violence during the planned tractor rally on January 26, news agency ANI said citing Delhi Police officials familiar with developments.Advocate and activist Nikita Jacob says toolkit was only informationalAdvocate and activist Nikita Jacob who currently faces arrest for designing a 'toolkit', which the Delhi Police says was made with intention to spread ill-will against the Indian state, denied disclosing any information to Swedish environmentalist Greta Thunberg. Read more.AAP criticises govt for Disha's arrestDear Prime Minister,This is देशद्रोह👇🏻 This is देशभक्ति👇🏻 pic.twitter.com/aKERW76GhNAAP shared two photos criticising the government while saying that protesting farmers is not a crime. BKU (Ugrahan) says farmers being mistreated by the govtFarmers were the backbone, today they have become terrorists.When they raised the voice for their rights, they became traitors.These people were the future of the country when it came to voting.They came on streets for their rights,Govt declared them Khalistanis.Bharatiya Kisan Union's Ugrahan wing said that farmers were once respected throughout the nation but recently they have been defamed and called 'terrorists.'SC-appointed panel meets for seventh time, holds discussions on farm laws The apex court-appointed committee on the new farm laws held its 7th meeting on Monday. The three member commitee is met with academicians and professionals on Monday through video conferencing, reported news agency PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-laws-protests-jan-16-disha-ravi-rakesh-tikait-bjp-farmers-agitation-rahul-gandhi-tomar-narendra-modi-khalistan-delhi-police-101613442302491.html
16-02-2021||NA||Highlights: Maharashtra reports 3,663 fresh cases of Covid-19||Several states have started administration of the second dose of coronavirus vaccines to beneficiaries who have completed 28 days from the receipt of the first dose. However, the second round is witnessing a lower than expected turnout due to the technical glitches in the Co-Win app. Many healthcare workers have complained that they did not receive any notification on their devices about the second shot.The Covid-19 caseload of the country currently stands at 10,916,589 while the active caseload is 1,39,637. 18 states and union territories (UTs) reported zero Covid-19 fatalities on Monday, as per the health ministry data.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19Globally, the disease has infected 109,134,308, as per the John Hopkins University coronavirus tracker. The South Korea government has also reached a deal to get more coronavirus vaccines for their 23 million people. 20 million Novavax vaccines and 3 million Pfizer shots will be supplied to the country. Australia's medical regulator has also granted provisional approval to AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine. AstraZeneca is the second vaccine to get the approval in the country after Pfizer. The World Health Organization had also granted emergency use approval to two versions of Covid-19 vaccines developed by AstraZeneca. These shots will be rolled out globally through WHO's vaccine equity programme COVAX.Follow all the updates here:UK Identifies 1.7 Million More People at Serious Covid RiskThe UK government identified an extra 1.7 million people in England at serious risk of coronavirus after using a new computer model that takes into account age, ethnicity and body mass index as well as medical conditions.Maharashtra reports 3,663 fresh cases of Covid-19Maharashtra reported 3,663 fresh cases of Covid-19 in the last 24 hours. The number of people succumbing to the disease was at 51,591 after 39 people died due to the Covid-19. The total caseload is now at 20,71,306.Mexico to present complaint at UN over unequal vaccine accessMexican Foreign Minister Marcelo Ebrard said on Tuesday that his government will present a complaint at the United Nations Security Council on Wednesday about the unequal access to Covid-19 vaccines globally, reports news agency Reuters.24 countries have received Covid-19 vaccine from IndiaTwenty-four countries have been provided Indian Covid-19 vaccines so far, informed NITI Aayog member (health), Dr VK Paul, on Tuesday.Karnataka makes negative RT-PCR report mandatory for travelers coming from KeralaPassengers arriving from Kerala are required to show negative RT-PCR report upon their arrival in Karnataka. The restriction is applicable irrespective of the passenger's vaccination status.Rising cases of Covid-19 in Kerala, Maharashtra cause of concern: GovtThe Union health ministry said on Tuesday the situation in Kerala and Maharashtra, which have reported a rising number of cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), has been a cause of concern. Read moreCovid-19 variant cases in IndiaA case of Brazil variant of SAS-CoV-2 detected in the first week of Feb. Virus strain successfully isolated and cultured at ICMR-NIV-Pune, said ICMR official. Meanwhile, South African strain of Covid-19 has been detected in 4 returnees from South Africa. The number of people with UK variant of Covid-19 is at 187.87,40,595 people covered under vaccination drive so far: GovtAs many as 87,40,595 Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in country till Tuesday 1 pm, said the union government on Tuesday. Out of this, 85,69,917 have recived the first dose of the vaccine, while 1,70,678 have been administered with the second dose, it also said.Delhi records 94 fresh Covid-19 casesDelhi recorded 94 fresh Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, the lowest in over nine months, while the positivity rate slipped to 0.17 per cent in the city, authorities said. One fatality was also registered, taking the death toll due to the viral disease to 10,894.Malaysiato get first batch of Pfizer and BioNTech vaccineMalaysia will get its first batch of Pfizer and BioNTech vaccine on February 21. The country will kick off the vaccination drive five days after that, Prime Minister Muhyiddin Yassin said on Tuesday.Odisha reports 60 new Covid-19 casesOdisha's Covid-19 tally climbed to 3,36,322 on Tuesday after 60 more people tested positive for the virus, while one fresh fatality pushed the death toll to 1,912, a health official said, reports PTI.National recovery rate from Covid-19 of India over 97%India on Tuesday recorded another landmark achievement as the national recovery rate from Covid-19 touched 97.32 per cent, among the highest in the world, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare informed, reports PTI.Russia reports 13,233 new Covid-19 casesRussia reported 13,233 new Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, including 1,409 in Moscow, taking the national infection tally to 4,099,323 since the pandemic began, reports Reuters.Britain to facilitate Covid-19 passport plans for other nationsBritain will provide vaccine Covid-19 certificates for its residents if they are required by other countries, although it is not planning to introduce them for use at home, vaccines minister Nadhim Zahawi said on Tuesday, reports Reuters.Covid-19 shots under 'Vaccine Maitri' programme reaches CarribeanA consignment of made-in-India Covid-19 vaccines have been received in Dominican Republic as India's 'Vaccine Maitri' programme reached the Carribean, reports PTI.Andaman records no new case of Covid-19 for second dayThe union territory of Andaman and Nicobar Islands did not report any fresh Covid-19 case in the last two days, a health department official said on Tuesday, reports PTI.Philippines says enough Covid-19 vaccines orders to reach 2021 goalThe Philippines said it has enough orders of coronavirus vaccines in the pipeline to reach its goal of inoculating most of its population this year, even as it expects a supply crunch in the first half, reports Bloomberg.Arunachal reports 1 new Covid-19 case, takes total tally to 16,833Arunachal Pradesh's Covid-19 caseload rose to 16,833 after one more person tested positive for the virus, a senior health department official said on Tuesday, reports PTI.Telangana records 129 fresh Covid-19 casesTelangana recorded 129 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the tally to 2,96,802 while one death pushed the toll to 1,619, the government said on Tuesday, reports PTI.Amit Shah lauds Delhi Police in tackling Covid-19Delhi Police tackled the Covid-19 lockdown in a commendable manner, earning the title of 'Dil Ki Police'. Home Minister Amit Shah also lauded the efforts of the police force. We lost 34 police personnel during this period said Delhi Police Commissioner SN Shrivastava, reports ANI.Mizoram reports 3 fresh Covid-19 casesThree more persons tested positive for Covid-19 in Mizoram in the last 24 hours, pushing the state's tally to 4,395, an official said on Tuesday, reports PTI.India records less than 10,000 new Covid-19 cases, 81 deaths in last 24 hoursIndia reported 9,121 new Covid-19 cases and 81 deaths in last 24 hours. Active coronavirus caseload dropped to 1.36 lakh, with total recoveries crossing 10.63 million, as per health ministry.Over 72,000 healthcare workers vaccinated against Covid-19 in HimachalAround 72000 healthcare workers have been vaccinated against Covid-19 in Himachal Pradesh, informed Himachal Pradesh Health Secretary Amitabh Awasthi on Monday, reports ANI.Mexico begins vaccinating senior citizens against Covid-19Mexico began vaccinating senior citizens in more than 300 municipalities across the country Monday after receiving some 860,000 doses of the AstraZeneca coronavirus vaccine, reports AP.Malaysia to get first batch of Covid-19 vaccine on Feb 21Malaysia will get its first batch of Covid-19 vaccines produced by U.S. and German drugmakers Pfizer and BioNTech on Feb. 21, and kick off its inoculation drive five days after that, Prime Minister Muhyiddin Yassin said on Tuesday, reports Reuters.China reports 16 new Covid-19 cases in last 24 hoursChina reported 16 new coronavirus cases in the mainland for Feb 15, compared to nine a day earlier, the health commission said on Tuesday, reports Reuters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/live-china-reports-16-new-covid-19-cases-in-last-24-hours-101613439220082.html
16-02-2021||India||Petrol price inches closer to ₹90-mark in Delhi after fresh hike||The prices of petrol and diesel were hiked again by 30 paise and 35 paise by the oil marketing companies on Tuesday. This took the price of petrol to ₹89.29 per litre and diesel to ₹79.70 in Delhi.The retail rates, which differ from state to state depending on the incidence of local sales tax or VAT and freight charges, will see another surge after the latest round of hike.In Maharashtra's Pune, petrol hit a record high of ₹95.10 a litre on Monday and diesel soared to ₹84.68 a litre. In Parbhani, a variant of petrol with additives has already crossed the ₹100-mark.Meanwhile, in Rajasthan's Sriganganagar town, petrol soared to ₹99.56 and diesel to ₹91.48 per litre.The fuel prices have been on the rise since February 9.In eight days, prices have gone up by ₹2.34 per litre for petrol and ₹2.57 for diesel.The relentless hike in prices has been criticised by the opposition parties including Congress that has demanded an immediate cut in taxes to ease the burden on the common man.It had also organised a six-hour bandh Odisha which affected normal life in the state.The continuous increase in the petrol and diesel prices has also started to reflect on the market. “As transportation expenditure has increased, there has been a 10% increase in the prices of essential commodities such as rice, oil and sugar,” said Popatlal Ostwal, president, Poona Merchant Chambers.Oil Minister Dharmendra Pradhan last week had told Parliament that the government is not considering a reduction in excise duty to cool rates from their record highs.Central and state taxes make up for over 61 per cent of the retail selling price of petrol and about 56 per cent of diesel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/petrol-diesel-prices-inch-closer-to-rs-90-mark-in-delhi-after-fresh-hike-101613441092408.html
16-02-2021||India||AYUSH ministry, WHO SEARO ink pact to bolster traditional medicine in S-E Asia||The AYUSH Ministry and the World Health Organization's South East Asia Regional Office has signed a Letter of Exchange for the deputation of an AYUSH expert to WHO's regional traditional medicine programme in New Delhi, according to a statement issued here on Monday.AYUSH Secretary Vaidya Rajesh Kotecha and Regional Director of WHO South-East Asia Region Poonam Khetrapal Singh signed the agreement, it said.The initiative aims to support the WHO South-East Asia Region in implementing the regional traditional medicine action plan with particular emphasis on safe and effective use of traditional medicine service, including Ayurveda, and its appropriate integration into national health care systems. Efforts will also be made to strengthen capacities of South East region countries in the area of traditional medicine, the AYUSH ministry statement said.It will also be a joint effort of the AYUSH Ministry and WHO in helping countries in the South-East Asia Region to develop policies and implement action plans to strengthen the role of traditional medicine.At the ceremony, Singh said the close collaboration of WHO and the Government of India goes back many decades, to the Basic Agreement both parties concluded in 1952 to fulfil mutual responsibilities in the spirit of friendly cooperation. "Today's agreement will formally extend this cooperation into the area of traditional medicine which is a valuable tool in our shared quest to achieve universal health coverage," she said.Kotecha said the AYUSH ministry has already had various interaction with the WHO in the field of ayurveda, yoga and other Indian traditional system of medicine.These Indian systems are getting more popular and being accepted as Medicinal system in the South-East Asian, African countries, European and Latin America nations, the statement said.As a major outcome of this partnership, the Ministry of AYUSH and WHO would work to identify various challenges faced by the member states of SEAR in regulating, integrating and further promotion of traditional systems of medicine. Further, the ministry and WHO will assist the member states to develop appropriate policy, regulation framework, exchange of information and activities for integration of traditional medicine in public health and dissemination of information about it to the community, the AYUSH secretary said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ayush-ministry-who-searo-ink-pact-to-bolster-traditional-medicine-in-s-e-asia-101613438994208.html
16-02-2021||India||Centre's historic move will lead to ₹1 lakh crore geo-spatial economy: Vardhan||Union minister Harsh Vardhan has said that by liberalizing the geo-spatial guidelines, the government has taken a historic decision that will lead to a one lakh crore rupees geo-spatial economy.The Centre has announced liberalized guidelines for geo-spatial data. Giving details of the liberalized guidelines at a media briefing in New Delhi on Monday, the Union Minister for Science and Technology, Earth Sciences Dr. Harsh Vardhan said that by liberalizing the geo-spatial guidelines, the government has taken a historic decision that will lead to a one lakh crore rupees geo-spatial economy.He said it will enable science to become a public movement and also to deliver a New India to people of the country.Harsh Vardhan said, " The next generation of technologies will use hyper-resolution maps. Availability of comprehensive, highly accurate, granular and constantly updated representation of geospatial data will significantly benefit diverse sectors of the economy and will significantly boost innovation in the country and greatly enhance the preparedness of the country for emergency response. The availability of data and modern mapping technologies to Indian companies is also crucial for achieving the vision of AtmaNirbharBharat and a five trillion-dollar economy".The minister highlighted, "With the advent of publicly available geospatial services, a lot of Geospatial data that used to be in the restricted zone are freely and commonly available now and some of the policies/guidelines that used to regulate such information have been rendered obsolete and redundant.""What is readily available globally does not need to be regulated. For Indian entities, there would be complete deregulation with no prior approvals, security clearances, licenses, etc. for acquisition and production of geospatial data and geospatial data services including maps," he added.Vardhan pointed out, "All geospatial data produced using public funds, except classified geospatial data collected by security/law enforcement agencies, will be made accessible for scientific, economic and developmental purposes to all Indian Entities and without any restrictions on their use. Government agencies and others need to collaborate and work towards openlinked geospatial data"."Stakeholders benefitted will include practically every segment of society, from industry to academia to government departments", he emphasized.This is a transformative reform, the Minister added.Speaking on the occasion, Union Minister Jitendra Singh said that the Centre has taken a historic decision to completely deregulate Geospatial Map-making and unshackle the Geospatial sector in India for the first time. He said that the decision is an extension of a series of visionary reforms undertaken in the Space sector. He pointed out that today's announcement heralds the unlocking of geo-mapping from restrictive use to wider use in the interest of nation building and creating an AtmaNirbhar Bharat.Dr Jitendra Singh said, this is one more distinct example of removal of some of the colonial legacies that India was still grappling with and added that deregulation of Map-making is historic in the sense that Geo-Map is now going to be recognised as an instrument for development rather than only a tool for securing the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centres-historic-move-will-lead-to-rs-1-lakh-crore-geo-spatial-economy-vardhan-101613436745351.html
16-02-2021||India||Number Theory: What does mobility data tell us about the state of the economy?||The Indian economy is “on the verge of normality”, if the latest reading of Nomura India Business Resumption Index (NIBRI) were to be taken as an indicator. NIBRI reached 98.1 (provisional value) in the week ending February 14, where 100 signifies pre-pandemic level. It was at 95.9 the week before that.“Since its trough in April last year, NIBRI remained on an uptrend through 2020 that continued into Q1 2021 (NIBRI average: 94.7 from 86.5 in Q4 2020), reflecting fewer new pandemic cases”, said a note from Nomura economists Sonal Varma and Aurodeep Nandi. The note infers improvement in NIBRI as a sign of growing economic momentum, and predicts a 1.5% GDP growth in the quarter ending December 2020 and 2.1% in the March 2021 quarter. To be sure, the latest NIBRI numbers also indicate a moderation in labour participation rate (LPR), which is defined as the share of working age population working of looking for a job. LPR moderated 40.5% in the week ending February 14, compared to 40.9% the week before that.An HT analysis of Google’s community mobility data can complement the economic normalisation story being offered by NIBRI.Google Mobility data has been relatively flat since December 2020While mobility has been increasing continuously, its recovery is relatively slower when compared to NIBRI. To be sure, mobility levels had reached 90% of pre-lockdown values (median value for the day of the week in the January 3, 2020 to February 6, 2020 period) in December 2020 itself. Average monthly value of all movement increased by a large magnitude between September 2020 to December 2020. This trend reversed itself to show a small decline in January 2021 and there has been a smaller increase in the February 2021 (data up to February 9) value. This trend remains the same if mobility on account of residential movement and visits to grocery stores and pharmacies (essential activities) are excluded. The government announced significant relaxations from lockdown related restrictions beginning February 1. Read more: The number theory: Imagining India, 10 years from nowThey included allowing states to determine the size of gatherings, which earlier had a cap of 50% of hall capacity or 200 persons in closed spaces. Cinema halls were allowed to operate at 100% capacity compared to the 50% cap that was imposed when they were allowed to open from October 15. All kinds of exhibition halls, apart from Business to Business exhibition halls that were allowed to open earlier, were allowed to function. Swimming pools were similarly permitted for use of all compared to being restricted to sportspersons earlier. This suggests that the existing marginal deficit in mobility could be a result of self-imposed restrictions rather than official curbs.Restoration of mobility differs across activitiesThe overall mobility index used here – which measures visits to and length of stay at particular place as a percentage of pre-lockdown levels -- is an average of mobility for visits to six kinds of places: retail and recreation, grocery and pharmacy, parks, transit stations, work and residential. Each of these activities shows different levels of normalisation. Latest retail and recreation mobility index shows the lowest recovery, with activity levels at just 75.2% of the base value. Work related mobility was at 83.9% compared to 90.2% for transit. The relatively muted recovery in work related mobility is in keeping with the weakness in labour markets captured in other high frequency indicators as well. For example, both the manufacturing and services Purchasing Managers’ Index (PMI) noted a fall in employment in January, even though the pace of job shedding has been moderating.Read more: Number Theory: The data India needs to diagnose the economyGrocery and pharmacy head shows that visits to such places has more than recovered from the base value, with the latest value at 114.6%. Residential mobility continues to go down, suggesting that people are spending less time indoors, although it is still higher than the base value.Work-related movement low in most rich statesVisits to workplaces are farthest from pre-pandemic levels in some of the richest states -- such as Delhi, Punjab, Haryana, Gujarat and Maharashtra – and the closest to pre-pandemic levels in some of the poorest state, such as Bihar, Andhra Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, and Assam. However, there are exceptions. Work-related mobility in Chhattisgarh was 82.9% of the baseline, only higher than that in Punjab (81.1) and Delhi (75.9%), among major states. On the other hand, in Karnataka, the mobility levels in February are behind only the four states with the highest mobility levels listed above.Mobility levels not dependent on caseloadAnother interesting aspect of the mobility levels across states is that they do not appear to depend on how the state is faring in managing Covid-19 infections. Active cases per million population in Delhi were 63 on February 9, 6th highest among eighteen major states. But non-essential movement in Delhi in February (until February 9) is the lowest (78.9% of pre-pandemic levels). On the other hand, Kerala had the highest number of active cases per million population on February 9 (1927), but only the eighth lowest mobility level (90.3% of baseline) among major states in February.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/number-theory-what-does-mobility-data-tell-us-about-the-state-of-the-economy-101613413925294.html
16-02-2021||India||India justice report| High vacancies, low budgets: what ails social justice delivery||Any overview of the justice delivery system must begin at the fact that several vacancies persist across its four main pillars — judiciary, police, prisons and legal aid systems — as the newly released India Justice Report (IJR) 2020 shows. But this is only the starting point. The report reveals that high vacancies are related to a number of factors from scientific utilisation of resources to budget allocation to training capacities.Let’s take a look at the current situation.According to the report which used 2019-2020 data from various government sources, in eight states there’s only one policeman for over 1,000 people. Out of 18 large and mid-size states, no state meets the benchmark of 20,000 people per subordinate court judge recommended by a Law Commission report. In the judiciary, on average, one in three judges in the High Court and one in four among subordinate judges were yet to be hired. In police, there’s a shortage of 18% constables and 29% officers nationally.In its second edition, the IJR 2020 tracks the rise and fall of each state’s capacity to deliver justice by offering a comparison to their performance recorded in IJR 2019. The report looks at 87 indicators across the four pillars, and creates an index based on a quantitative measurement of budgets, human resources, infrastructure, workload, and diversity across 18 large and medium sized states and seven small states. Thus, what we have is a granular understanding of the improvements and the shortfalls within each state as well as clear discernible trends nationally.Read more: Supreme Court notice to WhatsApp: ‘People value privacy more than money’The 2020 report shows that human resource deficits continue to stubbornly ail the justice system. High vacancy is arguably one of the biggest factors impeding its functioning and even when vacancies are filled they are often done so in junior ranks. As of January 2020, while only three states have constable vacancy above 30% as many as 9 states including Rajasthan, MP, UP and Bihar among others have officer vacancy above 30%. In IJR 2019, this figure stood at 6 states for both constable and officer vacancies above 30%. In the judiciary, we find that vacancies are higher in high courts as compared to subordinate courts; something that has persisted since 2016-17, as both reports indicate.Improve utilisation of fundsAcross judiciary, police and prisons, the lion’s share of all expenditure goes towards salaries leaving little margin for recruiting more personnel. In nearly all the states, the problem of budget inadequacy is juxtaposed with that of underutilisation of available funds. Uttar Pradesh, for instance, utilised less than 15% of its police modernisation fund and had among the lowest expenditure on training per personnel (about ₹3,300), but it recorded vacancies of 24% at the constable level and 40% at the officer level.Read more: Ahead of assembly polls, Sabarimala issue back on radar in KeralaTo be sure, there have been improvements in the justice system across states, in specific parameters. For instance, in Chhattisgarh, the number of officers in prisons rose from what we recorded in the previous report; at least 9 large and mid-sized states and two small states saw vacancies in the District Legal Services Authority secretary post come down to zero; and Jharkhand managed to improve the status of vacancies in 6 out of 8 key personnel positions across all pillars. IJR 2020 also finds that 21 states and Union Territories contributed 50% and above to the state’s legal aid spend as compared to only 16 states/UTs in IJR 2019. This indicates a realization of the need to support legal aid functions within the state.Turn the focus to trainingA well-trained workforce forms the backbone of the justice system. According to Common Cause, one of the civil society groups involved in the making of IJR 2020, between 2012 and 2016 only 6.4% of India’s total police force had undergone training. This means that over 90% deal with the public without any up-to-date training. Nationally, the spend on training is a meagre 1.13% of the total police budget. Without commenting on quality, the IJR finds that in states like Uttar Pradesh, which has hired more than 47,000 constables, there is a severe dearth of training institutes. Taken together, the picture that emerges is a police that remains understaffed and inadequately trained. In 28 states/UTs, a maximum of 1 out of 4 police personnel was trained. Similarly, in legal aid, only 6 states/UTs could train all their panel lawyers.Read more: Ex-CJI Ranjan Gogoi’s remarks on judicial system worrisome: Sharad PawarA serious analysis of the gains we can make by investing in justice delivery compared against the losses accrued by judicial delays, prison overcrowding, poor access to free legal aid and lawlessness might help us quantify the problem. But if it’s reform we’re looking for, a good place to start would be to fill the vacancies focusing on increased diversity.Valay Singh is the project lead of the India Justice Report 2020. The report released by Tata Trusts examines the state of justice delivery across prisons, judiciary, legal aid and police||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/high-vacancies-low-budgets-what-ails-social-justice-delivery-101613422545000.html
16-02-2021||India||India must set example in climate crisis fight: Bill Gates||Bill Gates, one of the richest men in the world, is focused on changing it. While the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation contributes significantly to funding medical breakthroughs, education, and poverty alleviation, Gates’s new book, How to Avoid a Climate Disaster, has an even larger purpose – to provide a plan to tackle climate change.“Because India’s going to suffer from climate change, it’s very important to set an example. It’s great that Modi came to the Paris event (Mission Innovation 2015). I hope he’s going to come to this big meeting in November in Glasgow, the COP26 (2021 United Nations Climate Change Conference),” Gates said in a video interview.He believes that though India might not be the first to reduce emissions, it can still push richer countries to meet their commitments. “When most people think about climate, they think about making electricity and about passenger cars mostly. They aren’t aware that there are many other sources of CO2 emissions. Electricity, transport, food, buildings and manufacturing are the biggest areas of emissions,” he said, stressing the need for “great innovators, great research, great policies” that will radically change all five of those areas in order to get to the ambitious goal of zero emissions that will stop the temperature from continuing to rise.Read more: Bill Gates-led fund raises another $1 billion to invest in clean techThe Microsoft founder believes innovations are required, especially in areas like the development of better seeds that need less water. “There’s a huge lack of investment in that. The latest Indian budget did increase the government’s R&D {research and development} capacities quite a bit and I see that in things like new seeds or health innovations or some climate related things,” he said, pointing out that climate change means that the south of India will suffer as the number of hot days increase.“Humans don’t thrive in very hot environments. And so India is just going to have to build a lot of air conditioning, which is going to use a lot of electricity, which, if we’re not careful, creates more emissions,” he said. “For the world to be at zero, it means that by 2050, when India’s building new buildings, it’s using green cement and green steel. If the rich countries don’t innovate down this green premium very dramatically then India has a right to say, ‘Hey we’re going to keep providing shelter and electricity and the rich world has to subsidise this if you want it to be green, but if that price is too high then it just won’t happen.’”Read more: ‘We may be back to normal in 2022’: Bill GatesHow will the country battle the endemic corruption that has led to the loss of green cover, and in some areas to consequent annual flooding?“One of the areas that India is leading is in digitizing a lot of activities. Over time, some of these government expenditures will be more visible. Now I do have some hope for that,” said Gates, who believes rich countries will ban the sale of gasoline-fuelled cars within the next 15 years.“You know China’s pushing these things partly because they don’t like local pollution. It did a good job in cleaning up the air in its cities. Now, it’s India’s turn. India and Pakistan have some of the most polluted air of any cities in the world. If you would look at the ranking, there are a few African cities in there but there are a lot of Indian cities,” he said, highlighting polluting coal plants.“It’s another reason you want to move cars to electric and you want to move power generation away from coal. Coal has a lot of health effects. Coal kills a lot of people. Not just in mining accidents. And yet, India has a lot of domestic coal,” he said, admitting that the necessary transition will be fraught as there are a “lot of jobs in coal”.Read more: 'Crazy and evil': Bill Gates surprised by pandemic conspiracies about himStill, Gates is certain India will pass more environmental regulations around local pollution. “India starts at a very tough situation in terms of its rivers and the amount of so-called faecal sludge management. But the government’s put a lot of energy in that, a lot of budget into things like ‘OK, how long will it take to clean up the Ganges?’ That’s how the government slowly but surely generally does things better. Now in the case of climate change, if slowly means a hundred years, we’ve got a problem,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-must-set-example-in-climate-crisis-fight-gates-101613422213615.html
16-02-2021||India||More vaccines will get Govt nod in coming months: health minister Harsh Vardhan||India may see more Covid-19 vaccines being approved for emergency use in the next few months, the country’s health minister Harsh Vardhan said, adding that sale of vaccines in the open market may not be allowed as long as they only have an emergency use authorisation.Mentioning that there are around 18-19 Covid-19 vaccines in various stages of development in the country, he added that it would “not be proper for me right now to say which vaccine will get, and how many days or weeks or months will take for emergency approval because that is something which is not given by the health minister or senior officials who are sitting on the dais.” The minister was speaking at a press conference.According to Hindustan Times’ own reporting, there are currently two vaccines in Phase 3 clinical trials in the country.Read more: 18-19 Covid-19 vaccine candidates in pipeline, says Harsh VardhanIndia has so far approved two vaccines for emergency use, Serum Institute’s Covishield and Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin, for emergency use. No private sales of vaccines are allowed for now.“The research for other Covid-19 vaccine candidates is already there. Department of biotechnology has been given specifically ₹900 crore to help such candidates, who have a potential...,” the health minister said. “For Covid-19 vaccination to pick in the country, the government would need to open it beyond essential services. By May it will be clearer whether India is able to cover the target population groups,” said Dr K Srinath Reddy, founder, public health foundation of India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/more-vaccines-will-get-govt-nod-in-coming-months-health-minister-harsh-vardhan-101613422127613.html
16-02-2021||India||Karnataka police yet to file charge-sheets in 3 sedition cases filed a year ago||A year after filing sedition cases against a researcher, the mother of an 11-year-old school student and a 20-year-old activist, the Karnataka Police is yet to submit a charge sheet in any of the cases, officials and lawyers said.The police officers in charge of these cases said they were still evaluating evidence and seeking legal opinion on the cases, which has caused the delay in filing of charge sheets. The police have, however, filed charge sheets against three Kashmiri students arrested for circulating a video chanting pro-Pakistan slogans.Data from the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) shows that Karnataka registered the maximum number of sedition cases, 22, by any state in 2019 and was able to file a charge-sheet in 13 . This marked an eleven-fold increase in sedition cases registered in Karnataka in 2019 compared to 2018.These four cases become high-profile because of the accused, who, are now out on bail and have moved away from the limelight.The defendants in two of these three cases — 19-year-old activist Amulya Leona and mother of the 11-year-old, Najbunnisa — spent weeks behind the bars. As per the rules, in a sedition case, a charge-sheet should be filed within 90 days.‘Vasudeva Kutumbakam’On February 20, 2020, Leona was arrested on sedition charges for shouting “Pakistan zindabad” during a protest against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, or CAA, in Bengaluru. She spent 110 days in jail before getting bail.“Vasudeva Kutumbakam (the world is one family) is engraved at the entrance hall of the Parliament of India. Didn’t Amulya say the same thing?” asked Amulya’s lawyer BT Venkatesh.He said that before delivering her speech, Leona posted on her social media accounts the following message: “Hindustan zindabad, Pakistan zindabad, Bangladesh zindabad, Sri Lanka zindabad, Nepal zindabad, Afghanistan zindabad, China zindabad, Nepal zindabad... whichever country it may be, zindabad to all countries.”Leona and her family refused to speak on the case and a fellow activist said she has moved with her mother to another part of the state. Deputy commissioner of police, Bangalore west, Sanjeev M Patil, who is in charge of the investigation, didn’t answer calls. However, another police officer said on condition of anonymity that the department was evaluating he evidence.Not child’s playIn north Karnataka’s Bidar, more than a year (January 26, 2020) after a short clip of a children’s play in a school led to a sedition case, police are still examining electronic evidence.The school’s headmistress and a student’s mother were arrested on charges of sedition. The play was staged on January 21, 2020, and a video of the play went viral on social media a few days later. The mother of a student in the play and the school’s headmistress were arrested 10 days later.In the video, a student can be heard saying: “The government is telling Muslims to leave India and go... Amma, I’m scared. Where do we go, leaving our home, our country and our livelihood?”Once the video went viral, a member of the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) filed a police complaint.“...for more than a week, about 85 students (aged between 9-12) of our school were questioned for more than five hours a day. The kids who were in the play had their pictures clicked,” said Thouseef Madikeri, CEO of Shaheen Educational Institute that runs the school.After spending 14 days in jail, the mother of the child was granted bail. “What the children have expressed is that they will have to leave the country if they don’t produce certain documents and except that, there is nothing to show that the student committed the offence of sedition...,” the judge at the lower court said.Bidar superintendent of police, Nagesh DL, said the investigations are still under way. He said a final call on the case will be taken only after the police receive legal advice.A PlacardMysuru-based researcher, Maridevaiah Shivanna left his family for over a month after a sedition case was slapped against him on January 9, 2020 — for organising a protest, where a person unknown to him held a placard reading “Free Kashmir.”“I didn’t know who she was. I don’t know where she came from. After the violence (on January 5, 2020) at JNU, we ...protested at the main gate,” he said.It was only a day later that Maridevaiah realised that the police were looking for him. “Since the students were being arrested in Bengaluru without bail, I was told by my family to leave the city...The thought that I had to abscond from my house for no fault of mine, it had taken a toll on me,” he said.Nalini, an alumna of the University of Mysore who held the poster, too was booked for sedition. She was unavailable for comment.When asked about the status of the case, a senior Mysuru police officer who asked not to be named said “permission for prosecution sanction” is awaited, which is mandatory for cases such as sedition. He said that charge-sheet will be filed after obtaining sanction.While the police are yet to file a charge-sheet in this case, Bidar police have filed one against three Kashmiri students arrested on charges of sedition. On 15 February 2020, the three students of KLE Institute of Technology were arrested on charges of sedition, for allegedly circulating a video of themselves chanting pro-Pakistan slogans.They spent 111 days in jail before the court granted them bail since the police failed to file a charge sheet within the stipulated 90 days. Hubbali police filed a charge-sheet in the case only on June 4, 2020.Lapse in supervision, says former police chief“If the police department is not able to file charge-sheets or doesn’t have the intent to file charge-sheets, what is the implied meaning? When you lodge an FIR in a spur of the moment, to send a loud message or to deter the accused or because of the political consideration, (and) when there isn’t enough material to prosecute, police often keep quiet,” said ST Ramesh, former director general and inspector general of Karnataka police. He added that the delay showed a clear lapse in supervision, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-police-yet-to-file-charge-sheets-in-3-sedition-cases-filed-a-year-ago-101613421766494.html
16-02-2021||India||Toolkit was only to educate people on farm stir: Nikita Jacob||Advocate and activist Nikita Jacob, who faces arrest for her alleged role in preparing a toolkit detailing digital support for farmers’ protests, has denied sharing any information with Swedish activist Greta Thunberg, while underscoring that the document was simply an “informational pack” and was not intended to incite violence.In her statement to the Delhi Police, which HT has seen, Jacob has accepted that she played a role in mustering support for the farmers’ protests on the social media and shared details with activists globally, but emphasised that there was nothing illegal about what she did.“The information contained in the toolkit does not in any manner incite riots or violence and is simply an information pack with information from various sources... No weapons, no violence, no mention of anything remotely violent in the toolkit or any of our communication,” the 30-year-old lawyer from Mumbai asserted.The toolkit, she said, sought to only educate those interested to learn more about the broader perspective involved in relation to the farmers’ current situation and fears, besides other public information and resource links for similar campaigns.Jacob, who is a volunteer of global environmental movement Extinction Rebellion (XR), told the Delhi Police that to prepare an informational kit for an ongoing movement was “natural and perfectly legal in a democracy guarded by a constitution as strong as ours.”Facing a non-bailable warrant (NBW) issued by a Delhi court, Jacob said the toolkit was being prepared by XR India volunteers for presenting the whole picture with a simple breakdown for an international audience. She told the police that the draft toolkit was shared on the XR WhatsApp group for comments and feedback before it was finalised on January 22, and circulated within XR networks whilst it primarily focused on the farm issues, the right to express dissent and the larger democracy.Jacob’s statement read that one of the XR volunteer partners, Fridays for Future, shared the toolkit with Greta Thunberg, seeking her solidarity with the protesting farmers in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/toolkit-was-only-to-educate-people-on-farm-stir-nikita-jacob-101613421378156.html
16-02-2021||India||Were informed about activist Disha Ravi's arrest later, says Bengaluru police||Senior officers in Bengaluru police on Monday said that they were informed about the arrest of 22-year-old Disha Ravi only after all procedures of the arrest were completed.HT spoke with three senior officers in the city, who said on condition of anonymity that Delhi police informed the local police about the arrest through officials of Karnataka cyber-crime cell, after the arrest was made.While addressing media in New Delhi, Prem Nath, Joint Commissioner, Cyber Cell, Delhi Police said that Disha Ravi was arrested in the presence of her mother and the Station House Officer from the local police station. He claimed that all procedures were followed.However, according to the city police, the information was passed on to the local police station and no officer was present during the arrest.The operation of Delhi police has come under scrutiny by legal experts and activists.Senior advocate Vikas Pahwa cited the Criminal Procedure Code to state that when an accused is arrested in another state, it is incumbent upon the arresting police to take assistance of the local police and to produce the accused with the case diaries, before a nearest magistrate for a decision on custody and remand. “Criminal Justice System requires every arrest to be judicially scrutinised at all levels. In this case, the Delhi Police has circumvented the law and violated the fundamental rights of the accused by depriving her even of legal assistance,” said Pahwa.Read more: Disha Ravi, Nikita Jacob and Shantanu created toolkit, say Delhi PoliceBengaluru-based lawyer Vinay Srinivasa said that a group of city lawyers submitted a memorandum to the police, seeking explanation on the procedural lapses and the follow-up action by the police.“According to the guidelines provided by the Delhi High Court following a 2018 case, an officer should inform the concerned local police station of the purpose of his visit on arrival; the arrested person must be given an opportunity to consult his lawyer before he/she is taken out of state; and the police officer must visit the local police station make an entry in the daily diary specifying the name and address of the person(s) being taken out of the state. Delhi police have violated all these HC guidelines,” added Srinivasa.But some believe it hasn’t violated any norms.Former additional solicitor general and senior advocate Sidharth Luthra said that in a case of arrest without a warrant, the fundamental requirement is to produce an accused before a judge within 24 hours in keeping with Article 22 of Constitution.“A 2014 judgment by the Delhi high court in Sat Prakash’s case has also clarified this position in law. Besides, if there is a procedural irregularity in making an arrest, a subsequent order of remand can cure it as per the legal provisions,” he added.Criminal lawyer MS Khan said: “There is no illegality or infirmity in the Delhi Police arresting Disha Ravi from Bengaluru and producing her before a magistrate within 24 hours.” The advocate added that once an accused is produced before a magistrate, the judicial officer can allow custodial interrogation for a maximum period of 15 days if there is adequate reason.Read more: Greta toolkit: After Disha Ravi, arrest warrants against Nikita Jacob, ShantanuFollowing the arrest, NGO Campaign for Judicial Accountability and Reforms (CJAR) issued a statement that Disha should have been produced before the competent court in Bengaluru for obtaining transit remand since she is being moved between states.“She was instead produced before the Duty Magistrate in Patiala House Court in Delhi – by no means the “nearest magistrate” as required by clause (2) of Article 22. She also did not have an opportunity to seek legal counsel nor was one provided to her, in breach of clause (1) of Article 22,” read a statement from CJAR.Disha was provided a legal aid lawyer before the Delhi court when she was sent to police custody for five days.The statement further added that the actions of Delhi police have made a complete mockery of the “procedure established by law” in depriving Disha Ravi of her right to life and liberty. “Such illegal actions by the Delhi Police would amount to kidnapping under the pretense of law.”“Disha was arrested without a warrant from the court since the FIR registered in this case disclosed cognisable offences. All procedures under the CrPC were followed and she was produced before the court of competent jurisdiction in Delhi within 24 hours,” said a Delhi Police officer on the condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/experts-allege-lapses-demand-explanation-for-activist-s-arrest-101613420872783.html
16-02-2021||India||Disha Ravi’s arrest attempt to weaken our movement, say farm unions||The leaders of farmer unions protesting at Delhi’s borders against the three new farm laws on Monday condemned the arrest of Bengaluru-based environmental activist Disha Ravi in connection with the toolkit document on their campaign and termed it a government attempt to weaken their movement.The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella group of several farmers’ organisations, said in a statement: “The SKM is deeply concerned and anguished about the brazen misuse of police power by the government in its efforts to weaken the ongoing farmers’ movement. It condemns the arrest of young environmental activist Disha Ravi without due procedures being followed. SKM demands her immediate release.”The group said that environmentalists like Ravi were aware of farmers’ issues. “India’s young environmentalists do understand and appreciate that unviable farming leads to unsustainable farming too...”On Saturday, Delhi police’s cyber crime unit arrested 22-year-old climate activist Disha Rai from her house in Bengaluru for allegedly sharing on social media the toolkit related to the farmers’ protest and brought her to Delhi.“...It is this inter-linkage between viability and sustainability that activists like Disha Ravi have understood in their extension of support for the farmers’ protests... Only those who do not understand the issues involved here will feign surprise at why people like Disha Ravi are supporting the movement,” the SKM added.Protesters also condemned Ravi’s arrest. Navkiran Natt, 29, a student-activist at Tikri border, said: “This is another attempt of the government to weaken the solidarity farmers’ protest has been receiving...”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/disha-ravi-s-arrest-attempt-to-weaken-our-movement-say-farm-unions-101613421229155.html
16-02-2021||India||2nd dose of Covid vaccines: 51% of those who got shots in first 2 days covered||Just over half the health care workers in the city who received a shot of the coronavirus vaccine during the first two days of the inoculation drive have returned for their second shot in the two days since the state government began administering the final dose of the jab, district data shows. So far, 4,047, or 51.1%, of health care workers have received the second dose of the vaccine, including 2,191 who turned up to get the second dose of the vaccine on Monday.Beneficiaries who received a dose of the coronavirus vaccine on January 16, when the nationwide inoculation programme kicked off, were eligible to get the second dose on Saturday. While 1,856 health care workers received the second shot on Saturday, experts said they hoped the turnout would significantly increase after the weekend.Read more: Amid rise in Covid-19 cases, Maharashtra minister looks at ‘3T formula’Both the vaccines being administered in the country, Covaxin and Covishield, require two doses be given four to six weeks apart, as per the national drug regulator. However, some data suggests that the vaccine by Oxford/Astrazeneca (whose Indian variant is covishield) has better efficacy if administered after 12 weeks.“There are a lot of messages going around among doctors and other healthcare workers that the immune response is better when the doses are given 12 weeks apart. This may be a reason many might want to wait till the six week cut-off to get the shot,” Dr Suneela Garg, professor of community medicine at Maulana Azad Medical College had told HT on Saturday.Meanwhile on Monday, nearly 15,000 people in Delhi received the first dose of the vaccines, across 265 centres. This puts the overall vaccine coverage — proportion of people who received the vaccines among those targeted — in Delhi at 56.4%. Government data shows that over half the people who were given the shots on Monday were front line workers, while the rest were those classified as “front line workers”.Read more: Recoveries from Covid-19 in Delhi exceed cases logged during the week“The number of health care workers coming to the centres is slowly going down, with more and more frontline workers, especially police personnel, coming to get the shots. We have asked the healthcare workers who haven’t received the vaccine yet to do so at the earliest because we have to end the drive for them on February 20,” said a senior district official.The Centre has set a February 20 deadline to vaccinate all health care workers who want to get the shots, and March 1 for frontline workers. An additional five days will be allowed for “mop-up” activity to immunise anyone who is left out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2nd-dose-of-covid-vaccines-51-of-those-who-got-shots-in-first-2-days-covered-101613418786358.html
16-02-2021||India||Activists say toolkits aren't the problem, 'objectives should be constitutional'||The arrest of 22-year-old Disha Ravi in connection with editing a toolkit that offered suggestions on how to support the farmers’ protests has thrown light on a tool often employed by the non-profit sector, advocacy groups, and even the United Nations to carry out digital activism over a range of issues.Activists from various organisations said they routinely used toolkits or resource kits, which were a standard operating procedure for advocacy and media outreach and did not constitute a crime as it was entirely up to people whether or not to follow what toolkits suggested.“The toolkit is the means to get a campaign going. It is all about social media as that is the medium of the young… These paperless campaigns in the digital format grab attention. So if you are trying to warn people not to use toolkits that is absurd,” said Goa Foundation director Claude Alvares who has been part of the Save Mollem campaign which started after the National Board for Wildlife approved the felling of 59,000 trees for development projects in and around the Bhagwan Mahaveer Wildlife Sanctuary and Mollem National Park last April.Goa Foundation also filed a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) in the High Court challenging these approvals.The campaign which began in June was conducted over several months — taking the shape of Facebook Live events, citizens’ letters to the authorities, signature campaigns, Twitter storms, artworks and performances, demonstrations and even a weekly documentary series on the wildlife of Goa.Toolkits were also created in the duration of the campaign, including one for citizens, which provided an overview of the proposed projects, a primer on the laws that governed protected forests, the official email addresses of the authorities to whom citizens could write to, and pointers on what their letters needed to address.Also Read: Effort to mislead global community- Pakistan on visit of foreign envoys to J-KAccording to Divya Narayanan, the campaigns director at Jhatkaa.Org, a digital platform to drive public engagement and volunteer movements on a range of issues, creating a toolkit is standard practice for running campaigns, especially social media campaigns.“A toolkit for a digital campaign is essentially a document that has information about the issue or a campaign and lays out ways in which people can lend support to the movement and solidarity online and offline. Social media posts are pre-drafted by campaigners/experts so that it’s easy for people to amplify the issue online without having to create content from scratch.”Also Read: Bengaluru counters Delhi Police on Disha Ravi’s arrest, say they were told laterNarayanan said that toolkits are often created in collaboration with civil society groups that come together for an issue. “We have co-created sample tweets, and other social media content with citizen groups to amplify issues like urban deforestation or air pollution in India,” she said.Meera Sanghamitra, an activist with the National Alliance of People’s Movements, said that movements utilised pamphlets and letters much before toolkits as a way to broaden their outreach and spread awareness over social justice issues.“Toolkits are a compilation of material available in the public domain. Oftentimes, everyone may not have the wherewithal to find the material and understand the issue, which is why campaigns and activists do the labour of putting together the material in an easy and accessible way, which is fact-based and verified,” Sanghamitra said.Also Read: In Kerala, protests against backdoor appointments in govt jobs intensifies“This criminalisation of ‘toolkit solidarity’ is outlandish. Primarily, it’s a clampdown on any form of solidarity between people,” she added.Asmita Ghosh, a communications specialist who has worked with both national and international non-governmental organisations over campaigns pertaining to gender and access to education, among other things, said that people are free not to comply with the asks in a toolkit if it does not speak to their concerns or align with their own values.“There can be a number of ways that a person can take part in any kind of activism. A social media toolkit may give sample posts or tweets, and this doesn’t mean that the integrity of a movement is compromised because, in today’s busy world, we campaigners need to make as easy for people to understand an issue and take action about it. Once they read and decide that they agree with what the message of the campaign is, we make it easier for them to take action by giving them sample tweets or Facebook posts that they can copy-paste to show their support for a movement,” Ghosh said.However, toolkits can also be used to spread disinformation and thus it is incumbent on a reader to be mindful of whether the toolkit is seeking participation in constitutional objectives, said Internet Freedom Foundation executive director Apar Gupta, who was one of the members of the Save the Internet campaign conducted some years ago on the issue of net neutrality.“It’s the objectives which define the desirability of a toolkit. For instance, if it’s towards a goal of climate justice or supporting the rights of farmers to protest, these are all constitutional objectives. If, on the other hand, a toolkit is advocating a high degree of disinformation or trying to create a fissure within society, then it’s not a goal that is not desirable for the proper functioning of a society,” Gupta said.Toolkits help unify the message which is necessary for any kind of amplification over social media platforms on account of their algorithms, Gupta added.“A social media platform prizes a certain level of conversation for it to then become visible to people who are not part of that conversation. It is important to unify in certain core ways through the use of hashtags, for instance, for the platform’s algorithm to prioritise it. If people tweet above a certain volume, it shows as a trend on Twitter, which then feeds the larger media ecology in which people can comment and participate in conversations… [and thus] become visible to constituencies which you want to sensitise to the cause you are espousing. In fact, the United Nations itself also communicates through toolkits that it has built around a range of issues like adolescent health care, access to education,” Gupta said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/activists-say-toolkits-aren-t-the-problem-objectives-should-be-constitutional-101613416595416.html
16-02-2021||India||Supreme Court notice to WhatsApp: ‘People value privacy more than money’||The Supreme Court on Monday told WhatsApp and Facebook that Indians valued their privacy more than the trillions of dollars the social media firms were worth, even as the companies sought to argue that the apprehension over a contentious new privacy policy was a “red herring”.A top court bench, headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde, decided to examine WhatsApp 2021 privacy policy by the messaging service and issued notices, saying the social messaging app needed to disclose the kind of user data that would be shared with other companies under its new policy.“People in India have grave apprehensions about loss of privacy. You may be a $2-3 trillion company, but people value their privacy more than that. And it is our duty to protect people’s privacy,” observed the bench, which also included justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian.Read more: ‘If A messages B…’: Supreme Court tells WhatsApp to give undertaking on data privacyIn January, WhatsApp renewed its terms of service and privacy policy, which were to initially come into effect on February 8, but have since been deferred to May 15. The company said it will share details about users’ conversations with business accounts, and that accepting these terms were mandatory. Anyone not agreeing to the terms will need to delete their accounts, the company said at the time, triggering a seeming shift by many to rivals such as Telegram and Signal.During a hearing on Friday, the apex court shot down submissions by WhatsApp and its parent company Facebook that the apex court did not require to examine the 2021 privacy policy since the Delhi HC was hearing a separate bunch of challenges to the same policy.The bench took note that a previous petition raising similar issues regarding the 2016 privacy policy of WhatsApp was pending before a Constitution bench, and commented that it was not appropriate for a high court to deal with the issues that were already pending before the Supreme Court.Read more: Delhi high court seeks Centre's stand on plea against new WhatsApp privacy policyThe Union government urged the top court to scrutinise the 2021 policy instead of waiting for a high court to decide. “Right to privacy is a fundamental right and they (WhatsApp and Facebook) must protect Indians’ rights. They cannot share data of Indians. They cannot compromise with the privacy right of Indians,” Mehta submitted. Appearing for petitioner Karmanya Singh Sareen, senior lawyer Shyam Divan questioned WhatsApp over lowering the privacy standards. He pointed out that since WhatsApp had deferred its new policy till May 15, the SC should decide its validity before that. However, senior advocates Kapil Sibal, Arvind Datar, Mukul Rohatgi and Sidharth Luthra, who appeared for WhatsApp and Facebook, sought to emphasise that the social media entities were functioning within the bounds of the Indian laws. “This [2021] policy is applicable for the rest of the world, including India, except Europe because Europe has a specific law. The General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) applies to these 27 countries in Europe and thus, there is a different policy. Once India also has a law in this regard, we will change accordingly,” Sibal and Datar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-notice-to-whatsapp-people-value-privacy-more-than-money-101613415842215.html
16-02-2021||India||Cops claim man mentioned in toolkit associated with ISI||The Delhi Police on Monday said they were probing how the name of Pieter Friedrich, who they claimed was associated with a module of the Pakistan’s Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI), figured in the toolkit that was tweeted by Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg and is now being probed in connection with the violence during the January 26 farmers’ tractor rally.The police said the document aimed to spread misinformation, tarnish India’s image, and incite unrest.At a press briefing on Monday, police told reporters that the document that was tweeted and later withdrawn by Thunberg mentioned the name of Friedrich, who has been on the radar of the security agencies since late 2006 when he was associated with one Bhajan Singh Bhinder alias Iqbal Chaudhary, a leading proponent of the K2 (Kashmir-Khalistan) desk of ISI.Thunberg later posted an updated document.On Monday, an account that ostensibly belonged to Friedrich, tweeted: “‘Delhi Police on Monday unearthed the role of pro-Pakistan and Khalistan sympathiser Pieter Friedrich.’ For the record, not only do I not support Khalistan, but the Khalistan movement today appears to nothing more than a psy-ops project of the Modi regime.”On Saturday, Delhi Police’s cyber crime unit arrested 22-year-old climate activist Disha Rai from her home in Bengaluru for allegedly working on the toolkit related to the farmers’ protest, and brought her to Delhi.Top opposition leaders protested Ravi’s arrest, with some leaders directly accusing the Union government for muzzling dissent. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi quoted Faiz Ahmed Faiz’s famous couplet, “Bol ke lab azad hain tere...” to say that “Tell them that the truth is alive till now. They (the government) are scared, not the country. India won’t be silenced.”Activists from various organisations said creating a toolkit was standard operating procedure for advocacy and media outreach, and did not constitute a crime as it was entirely up to people whether or not to follow what toolkits suggested.“If you see the toolkit, it is a very carefully crafted document. It has sections on what hashtags to trend on a particular day, what action has to be taken, who is to be tagged, and who is to be followed. In the section - ‘ who is to be followed’ - there are certain names of established media houses, reputed fact-checkers, some NGOs and among those you’ll find one very incongruous looking name – Peter Friedrich,” DCP Manishi Chandra of the special cell claimed.“Bhinder’s name was also associated with arms and drugs smuggling,” he said, adding that they will investigate why Friedrich’s name was mentioned in the toolkit in the list of people who should be followed online.The police said that they were also probing if Disha Ravi and others contacted Friedrich through Mo Dhaliwal, the founder of Poetic Justice Foundation.Deputy commissioner of police (cyber cell) Anyesh Roy said the toolkit is not a static document but a dynamic one. “It has a large number of hyperlinks. They are links to various Google drives, Google docs and websites. One of the important websites is askindiawhy.com. This website has a lot of pro-Khalistan content,” Roy said.He said the document in itself has an action plan. “The toolkit was a private document to be shared among a limited number of people who would then influence public opinion. Having global icons to follow it, was to propagate it further. False narrative and pro-Khalistani propaganda was also to be propagated through this.”Activists condemned the action.“A toolkit is the most ordinary and commonplace of resources...we believe Disha Ravi and youngsters like her ought to be celebrated, not harassed and demonised,” said environmental activist G Sundarajan in Chennai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-named-in-toolkit-linked-to-isi-cops-101613415291225.html
16-02-2021||India||UP woman burnt to death by family over interfaith relationship: Cops||A Hindu woman was allegedly burnt to death by her family in Sant Kabir Nagar district in eastern Uttar Pradesh for being in a relationship with a Muslim man, police said on Monday, announcing the arrest of the victim’s father, brother and two other relatives, who hired a contract killer for the murder.Police officials said the family members have confessed to the crime, and a hunt was on for the contract killer who was purportedly paid ₹1.5 lakh to murder the 28-year-old woman, whose burnt body was discovered on February 4. The woman is believed to have been killed the previous night.Superintendent of police (SP) of Sant Kabir Nagar, Kaustubh, said the woman’s father, brother, brother-in-law and a fourth relative, have been arrested. During the course of interrogation, the father, a retired armyman, said that his daughter was in a relationship with a married Muslim man, the officer said. His daughter eloped on one occasion but returned and continued with the relationship despite the family’s objections, the father told police, according to the officer’s statement to reporters.Police recovered a container in which petrol was stored and a motorcycle that was allegedly used in the killing were also recovered, they added. The half-burnt body of the woman was first discovered at Jigina village under Dhanghata police station limits on February 4. The identity of the woman could not be ascertained at the time, police said, adding that several teams were formed to probe the case.With the help of the local police, surveillance, CCTV footage, a field unit and a dog squad, the body was identified as that of a woman of Jitwarpur village under Belghat police station limits in the neighbouring Gorakhpur district, the SP said. The father of the victim was then arrested.During interrogation, the father purportedly told police that he and his son-in-law hired a contract killer and paid him ₹1.50 lakh. On the night of February 3, the man allegedly took his daughter to a deserted spot where the killer and others arrived. When the woman raised an alarm, the accused tied her hands and put a cloth over her mouth, police said.Once she fell unconscious, the accused placed jute bags on her, poured petrol and set her on fire, the SP said. The four men -- identified as Kailash Yadav (father), Ajit Yadav (brother), Satya Prakash Yadav (brother-in-law) and Sitaram Yadav (relative) -- fled. The alleged contract killer was identified as Varun Tiwari and is at large, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-woman-burnt-to-death-by-family-over-interfaith-relationship-cops-101613413802816.html
16-02-2021||India||Communication woes lead to low turnout for 2nd dose of Covid-19 vaccine in Bihar||Around 67% healthcare workers (HCWs), who took the first jab of the Covid-19 vaccine on January 16, returned to take the second shot, as the exercise began in Bihar on Monday.The state health department, however, claimed there was no hesitancy among HCWs to take the second shot, as 12,101 were given the second jab as against 18,122 who took the first shot on January 16.The low turnout for the second shot of vaccine was attributed to communication issues, as many beneficiaries claimed they did not receive any intimation through SMS on their mobile phones.“The low turnout for second dose on the opening day was because of communication issues. Many civil surgeons and superintendents of medical colleges claimed that many eligible beneficiaries did not receive SMS on their mobile phones for the second shot of the vaccine today,” said Manoj Kumar, executive director of the State health Society, Bihar.“We have asked the respective facility in-charge to follow-up manually with those who are eligible for the second jab by calling up and reminding them. There is absolutely no hesitancy in taking the second jab,” added Kumar.Among those who did not turn up were some who had taken ill, while others were either on leave or out of station. A minor percentage of HCWs reported that they will take the second jab after a week or so, said Dr Binod Kumar Singh, superintendent of Patna’s Nalanda Medical College Hospital, where 47 out of 59 turned up to take the second dose on Monday.The Patna Medical College Hospital (PMCH) reported 92.5% coverage, as 86 out of 93 HCWs eligible took the second dose on Monday, said its superintendent Dr IS Thakur.The Vardhaman Institute of Medical Sciences (VIMS) at Pawapuri in Nalanda reported 54% coverage as against its target of 131 for the second dose.As many as 40 HCWs were vaccinated at Sri Krishna Medical College in Muzaffarpur against, said its superintendent Dr BS Jha. The SKMCH had vaccinated 19 on the first day of the vaccination campaign on January 16.Anugrah Narayan Magadh Medical College Hospital in Gaya and Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College Hospital in Bhagalpur reported second-day coverage of 80% and 51%, respectively.Second dose vaccination figures of AIIMS-Patna were not available as its superintendent Dr CM did not respond to phone calls or text message. As many as 100 HCWs had taken the first jab on January 16.Mondays and Thursdays have been earmarked for administering the second shot of vaccine in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/communication-woes-lead-to-low-turnout-for-2nd-dose-of-covid-19-vaccine-in-bihar-101613414407570.html
16-02-2021||India||SC relief for journalist Siddique Kappan, gets bail to visit ailing mother||The Supreme Court on Monday allowed jailed journalist Siddique Kappan to travel to Kerala with a police escort to meet his ailing 90-year-old mother and return within five days. During his stay in Kerala, Kappan has been prohibited from giving any interview to any media organization, including social media, and will not be permitted to meet members of the public other than his relatives, doctors and persons connected with his mother’s health.Kappan is currently lodged at Uttar Pradesh’s Mathura jail following his arrest by the state police on October 5 last year while on his way to cover the gang-rape and death of a Dalit girl in Hathras. The police accused him of being an active member of the radical Islamic organization Popular Front of India (PFI).Based on material seized from him, the police charged him under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, and sedition under Section 124A of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). Lately, Kappan is being probed by the Enforcement Directorate over alleged money laundering.An application was moved on behalf of Kappan in a pending petition heard by the Supreme Court by the Kerala Union of Working Journalists (KUWJ). The organization told the top court that Kappan’s mother was on her death bed with doctors having given up hope of her survival. On an earlier date, arrangements were made at Mathura Jail to enable Kappan speak with his mother through videoconferencing. The mother was not in a position to talk.The prayer was opposed by the UP government, which sought time to reply to the application. Solicitor general Tushar Mehta, appearing for the state, said: “The mother (of Kappan) is not as serious as is being projected. It is really unfair for the petitioner to use mother’s ill-health as a ground to visit Kerala. A campaign is going on there at full swing and money is being collected in his name as if he is a martyr. Big posters are out and he will be paraded in public as if he is being penalized for being a freedom fighter.”Mehta requested the Court not to go by the emotional appeal of the petitioner.The three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde said: “This is not fair. We are willing to take the risk. This is the last opportunity for a person to see his mother. We are taking his request on face value and at the moment will consider it as truth. Howsoever a man, he is not likely to lie about his mother’s death . And if so, we will disbelieve him for all times to come in the future.”Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, who appeared for KUWJ, told the court that the application raised a humanitarian plea and the state should not stand in the way. “Doctors have given up. No more drugs are being advised for the mother. They say, she may not be alive beyond the next few days.”To balance concerns of the state and the KUWJ, the court ordered: “We consider it appropriate to permit the prisoner, Siddique Kappan to visit his mother and return to the prison at the end of the fifth day after he is allowed to travel.”During this period, he will only see his ailing mother, not give any interview to any media including social media, not meet members of the public (except relatives, doctors or anybody in connection with his mother’s health), and shall be escorted by a team of officers of the Uttar Pradesh police, according to the order by the bench, also comprising justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian.Sibal requested privacy when Kappan meets his mother at home. To facilitate this, the bench directed the police escort team to stay guard outside and not go inside the house. The bench indicated that this order “will not prejudice any contentions raised by the solicitor general” with regard to the pending matter filed by KUWJ challenging Kappan’s detention.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-relief-for-kappan-gets-bail-to-visit-ailing-mother-101613413431059.html
16-02-2021||India||CoWin app, hesitancy slow down Covid-19 vaccination drive||Glitches in the Co-Win mobile application to plan and track the coronavirus vaccination drive as well as some reluctance among selected recipients appeared to hamper efforts to give the second doses to those now eligible for it, reports from across the country on Monday suggested.Six states -- Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Rajasthan, Bihar and Gujarat – began giving their second doses for the first time on Monday. Some others, such as West Bengal, Goa, Tamil Nadu and Haryana, started the process on Saturday, which marked 28 days (the required gap between doses) after the first shots were given to people during the nationwide launch on January 16.In most states, the turnout on Monday was tepid, officials said.In West Bengal, only 7,273 people received second doses compared to close to about 15,000 people who received the first dose on January 16Read more: Amid rise in Covid-19 cases, Maharashtra minister looks at ‘3T formula’In Punjab, only four percent of those who received the first dose turned up on Monday. Out of 1,319 health care workers, who were scheduled to take second vaccine dose on Saturday, only 59 could get the doses.“Technical glitches hit the application on first day of second dose. Those who missed their second shot can still take the vaccine anytime between four to six weeks from their first dose” said Punjab’s nodal officer for Covid-19, Dr Rajesh Bhaskar.According to officials, the planned sessions for second dose could not be created on the app, which resulted in problems in informing health workers about the timing. “We have informed the health ministry about the problems in the app,” Bhaskar said.In Jharkhand, from among the 3,085 recipients who got their first doses 28 days ago, only 2,405 turned up on Monday.Read more: Communication woes lead to low turnout for 2nd dose of Covid-19 vaccine in BiharIn Bihar, around 67% healthcare workers who were meant to take the second doses turned up. “The low turnout for second dose on the opening day was because of communication issues. Many civil surgeons and superintendents of medical colleges claimed that many eligible beneficiaries did not receive SMS on their mobile phones for the second shot of the vaccine today,” said Manoj Kumar, executive director of the State health Society, Bihar.However, in Uttar Pradesh the response was good on the first day. Additional chief secretary, Health and Family Welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad said, till 2 pm around 32,000 health workers across Uttar Pradesh were given the second doses. He said 23,620 health workers were given first dose in the first round vaccination drive held on January 16. The vaccination drive will continue till late evening in the 75 districts, Prasad said.Read more: 18-19 Covid-19 vaccine candidates in pipeline, says Harsh VardhanIn Tamil Nadu, less than 50% health workers meant to take the second doses have taken it yet. State health secretary J Radhakrishnan took a second shot of Covaxin on Monday urged people to come forward for the second dose. “Our numbers are steadily going up for vaccines. But there is too much information, some of it not scientifically proven that it is beneficial to take the second dose with a longer interval beyond 28 days, because of which we haven’t had a lot of people taking the second dose in time,” he said.(With inputs from state bureaus)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cowin-app-hesitancy-slow-down-booster-shot-drive-101613413370986.html
16-02-2021||India||Disengagement in eastern Ladakh’s Pangong Tso in full swing, may be over soon||The disengagement process in eastern Ladakh’s Pangong Tso area is in full swing, with the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) knocking down military structures it had built since the border standoff began last May, people familiar with the developments said on Monday.“PLA has removed a jetty near Finger 5 on the north bank of Pangong Tso. Some structures at a make-shift helipad are also gone. Observations towers, bunkers and shelters are being removed too. It’s part of the disengagement agreement,” said an official cited above.Disengagement between rival soldiers deployed on heights on the north and south banks of Pangong Tso began on February 10. The process will be over by the weekend, said a second official. Senior commanders of the two armies are likely to meet next week to discuss disengagement at other friction points in eastern Ladakh, the official said.PLA is retreating to its base east of Finger 8 on the north bank of Pangong Tso, while the Indian army is moving back to its permanent position near Finger 3. Neither side will patrol the contested areas in between until an agreement is reached through future talks.In a statement in Parliament on February 11, defence minister Rajnath Singh said that structures built by both sides after April 2020 at heights on both banks of the lake will be removed. PLA had set up scores of structures in the Finger Area including bunkers, pillboxes, observation posts and tented camps.Outstanding problems with PLA at Depsang, Hot Springs and Gogra - friction points on the contested border in eastern Ladakh - will be tackled after full disengagement in the Pangong Tso area.The outstanding issues relating to deployment and patrolling at the three friction points will be taken up within 48 hours of pullback of troops in the Pangong Tso area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/disengagement-in-eastern-ladakh-s-pangong-tso-in-full-swing-may-be-over-soon-101613404392897.html
16-02-2021||India||Cong ally IUML to get Rajya Sabha seat in biennial Kerala polls||The Congress ally, Indian Union Muslim League (IUML), said on Monday that it will get a Rajya Sabha seat in the biennial polls of Kerala in April, an arrangement that may rule out former Leader of the Opposition Ghulam Nabi Azad’s return to the Upper House anytime soon. Two senior Congress strategists in Delhi corroborated the claims and said an IUML candidate will be backed by the Opposition bloc, UDF.Refuting speculations that the Congress and IUML might enter into an agreement to give Azad a seat from Kerala, national president of IUML Kader Mohideen told HT, “The seat will go to someone from Kerala. There are a lot of youngsters here and our party will select a qualified young man for the seat.”Also Read | ‘Highly productive’: LS Speaker Birla after end of first phase of Budget Session“Our party leaders have decided they won’t give it to any outsider. So, Ghulam Nabi Azad’s matter does not appear in our internal discussions,” Mohideen added.Three Rajya Sabha seats from Kerala will go for elections in April, before the state faces its assembly elections. As elected MLAs vote for Rajya Sabha through the method of proportionate representation, two out of the three seats will go to the ruling LDF and the Congress-led UDF will get just one seat.Two senior Congress strategists and Mohideen said that as per the arrangement the IUML will field a UDF-backed candidate for the Opposition’s seat.“We have a good understanding with the Congress. Wayanad Lok Sabha constituency was our traditional seat. But in 2019, we gave up our claims on that seat for Rahul Gandhi to contest,” Mohideen added.Ghulam Nabi Azad, who retired from the Rajya Sabha on February 15, could not be re-elected from J&K as there is no assembly in the Union Territory. Union home minister Amit Shah has told Parliament that statehood will be restored at an appropriate time.To be sure, Azad too said that he has no inclination to come to Rajya Sabha from Kerala. In an interview to HT, Azad said, “I don’t want to take away a seat from my friends in Kerala.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-ally-iuml-to-get-kerala-rajya-sabhaseat-101613376049567.html
16-02-2021||NA||Highlights: WHO grants emergency use approval to Oxford University-AstraZeneca||The administration of the second dose of Covid-19 vaccines to the beneficiaries who have completed 28 days from the receipt of the first dose in the states of Rajasthan, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh and Maharashtra will begin today.Schools for classes 9-12 in Chhattisgarh are also scheduled to reopen on Monday. The institutions are required to strictly adhere to the Covid-19 guidelines issued by the state and Centre.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19The coronavirus caseload of the country crossed the 10.9 million mark on Sunday when it reported 12,194 new Covid-19 cases and 92 deaths, according to the Union health ministry's coronavirus dashboard. The country has been recording a steady decline in the number of daily deaths since October 1, 2020, as per the health ministry.New Zealand's largest city Auckland will also be entering a three day lockdown after it reported three new cases of coronavirus previous week. The country's health ministry officials have raised concerns about the cases as they said it did not match the previous genome testing and are of the contagious variant discovered in the UK. Japan is expected to begin Covid-19 vaccination this week as it approved the Pfizer coronavirus shot. Britain achieved its target of vaccinating 15 million people in the top priority group before its proposed deadline of February 15. "This country has achieved an extraordinary feat", Prime Minister Boris Johnson had said celebrating the milestone.Follow all the updates here:Haryana records 108 new casesHaryana recorded 108 new coronavirus infections, taking he state's tally to 2,69,154. There are currently 903 active cases in the state.WHO grants emergency use approval to Oxford University-AstraZeneca vaccineWHO has granted emergency use approval to the Oxford-AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine.Jharkhand records 38 new cases, two deathsJharkhand reported 38 new COVID-19 cases, 33 recoveries and 2 deaths in the last 24 hours, as per the State Health Department Total cases: 1,19,354Recoveries: 1,17,806Death toll: 1,084Active cases: 464 pic.twitter.com/HVZvxsyLRHJharkhand recorded 38 new coronavirus infections and two fresh fatalities.Kerala reports 2,884 new cases, 13 deathsKerala reported 2,884 new coronavirus infections, taking the country's tally to 10,07,019. The death toll after 13 new fatalities stands at 3,998.Maharashtra reports 3,365 new cases, 23 deathsMaharashtra reports 3,365 new COVID-19 cases, 3,105 discharges, and 23 deaths in the last 24 hours, as per State Health DepartmentTotal cases: 20,67,643Total recoveries: 19,78,708Active cases: 36,201Death toll: 51,552Maharashtra reported 3,365 new coronavirus infections, taking the state's tally to 20,67,643. The death toll after 23 new fatalities stands at 51,552.Tamil Nadu records 455 new cases, six deathsTamil Nadu reports 455 new #COVID19 cases, 477 recoveries and 6 deaths today.Total cases: 8,45,575Total recoveries: 8,28,918Death toll: 12,425Active cases: 4,232 pic.twitter.com/PvxnqBqV2fTamil Nadu recorded 455 new coronavirus infections, taking the state's tally to 8,45,575. The death toll after six fresh fatalities stands at 12,425.Gujarat reports 249 new infectionsGujarat reported 249 new coronavirus infections, taking the state's tally to 2,65,493. The death toll currently stands at 4,401.Goa reports 40 new cases, two deathsGoa reported 40 new coronavirus infections, taking its tally to 54,275. The death toll after two new fatalities stands at 781.Percentage of hospitalisation against vaccination 0.0004%: Ministry"Percentage of hospitalisation against vaccination is 0.0004%. In the last 24 hours, there is one case that required hospitalisation. This is due to central retinal vein occlusion after blood pressure increased. Patient is now stable at the hospital in Indore, MP," said Joint Secretary, Union Health Ministry.Eleven deaths reported in hospitals during the last 31 days of Covid vaccination drive: Ministry"Number of cases that required hospitalisation is 35. Out of these, 21 have been discharged after treatment. Three of them are under treatment. 11 deaths have been reported in hospitals during the last 31 days of the Covid vaccination drive," said the Joint Secretary, Union Health Ministry.Delhi reports 141 new cases, two deathsDelhi reports 141 new #COVID19 cases, 134 recoveries and two deaths today, as per Delhi GovernmentTotal cases: 6,37,087Total recoveries: 6,25,158Death toll:10,893Active cases: 1,036 pic.twitter.com/aQNntkV3orDelhi reported 141 new coronavirus infections, taking the national capital's tally to 6,37,087. The death toll after two new fatalities stands at 10,893.Vaccinations carried out on 85,16,385 beneficiaries: MinistryMandeep Bhandari, Joint Secretary, Union Health Ministry said that the total vaccination carried out was of 85,16,385 beneficiaries. 61,54,894 healthcare workers vaccinated of which, first dose of vaccine was given to 60,57,162 while second dose was given to 97,732 beneficiaries.Andhra Pradesh records 30 new cases, one deathAndhra Pradesh reported 30 new coronavirus infections, taking the state's tally to 8,88,899. The death toll after one fresh fatality stands at 7,163.Night curfew to be imposed on Gujarat's metro citiesPankaj Kumar, Additional Chief Secretary of State Home Department said that night curfew from midnight to 6am would be imposed on Gujarat's metro cities from February 16 to February 28.Not one death reported due to Covid vaccination: VardhanUnion Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said that no death nwas reported due to coronavirus vaccination and there was a negligible number of instances with routine side effects. He also said that relevant stakeholders were working on post-Covid symptoms.Malaysia reports 2,176 new casesMalaysia reported 2,176 new coronavirus infections, taking the country's overall tally to 266,445.Covid strengthened country's health potential: VardhanUnion Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said that the Covid-19 pandemic had strengthened India's health potential. He cited the instance of ramping up the number of labs from one to 2,500, and spoke about how genome sequencing, that was currently being talked about in the world, had been in Indian labs since May-June of 2020.At least 18 to 20 vaccine in pre-clinical, clinical and advanced stages: VardhanUnion Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said that at least 18 to 20 vaccines were in the pre-clinical, clinical and advances stages and that they were expected within the next few months. He also said that 80-85% of frontline workers had been inoculated and 20 to 25 countries were to be availed with the vaccine.Crucial that people follow Covid appropriate behaviour: VardhanUnion Health Minister said that it was crucial that the people followed Covid appropriate behaviour, which he called a 'social vaccine' as the real vaccine rollout process continued.No new Covid cases reported in 188 districts in last seven days: VardhanUnion Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said that no new coronavirus infections were reported in 188 districts in the country during the last seven days.Those above 50 years of age likely to be vaccinated in March: VardhanUnion Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said that those above 50 years of age are likely to be vaccinated in March.Strict travel rules to contain Covid-19 variants come into effect in UKThe UK's tougher new travel rules to contain the spread of Covid-19 variants came into effect from Monday, involving compulsory hotel quarantines for anyone returning to England from one of the 33 high-risk "red list" countries, reports PTI.Will send Covishield Covid vaccine to Canada in less than a month: Adar PoonawallaVaccine maker Serum Institute of India (SII) on Monday said it will send Covid-19 vaccine developed by AstraZeneca and Oxford University to Canada in less than a month, reports PTI.Odisha logs 88 new Covid-19 casesOdisha's Covid-19 tally mounted to 3,36,262 on Monday as 88 more people tested positive for the infection, while one fresh fatality pushed the state's coronavirus death toll to 1,911, a health official said, reports PTI.Gujarat: Administration of second dose of Covid-19 vaccine beginsThe drive to administer the second dose of the Covid-19 vaccine to those who have been covered in the first phase began across Gujarat on Monday, reports PTI.Kerala, Maharashtra contribute 74.72% to active coronavirus caseloadKerala, Maharashtra and Karnataka cumulatively account for 76.5% of India’s total active cases. Kerala, Maharashtra together compose 74.72% of the total active cases, said health ministry.Puducherry reports 20 new coronavirus casesThe Covid-19 tally in the union territory of Puducherry rose to 39,468 on Monday with the addition of 20 fresh cases, the Health department said, reports PTI.Boris Johnson to judge Covid-19 lockdown exit this week, says UK health ministerBritish Prime Minister Boris Johnson will this week judge how fast England can exit Covid-19 lockdown but the death toll and hospital admission numbers are still too high, Health Secretary Matt Hancock said on Monday, reports Reuters.Gujarat CM Vijay Rupani tests Covid-19 positiveGujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani, who fainted Sunday evening during an election rally in Vadodara, has tested positive for Covid-19 with mild symptoms, an official health bulletin said. Read moreTelangana reports less than 100 new Covid-19 cases in 8 monthsAfter a gap of eight months, Telangana recorded less than 100 fresh Covid-19 cases while two deaths pushed the toll to 1,618, the state government said on Monday, reports PTI.Australia receives first shipment of Pfizer Covid-19 vaccineAustralia will begin vaccinating its population against Covid-19 next week after its first shipment of Pfizer vaccine was delivered on Monday, reports AP.Thailand reports 143 fresh Covid-19 cases; first case of South African variantThailand reported 143 new coronavirus infections on Monday and in quarantine detected its first case of the highly contagious Covid-19 variant first found in South Africa, its coronavirus taskforce said, reports Reuters.Zimbabwe receives first Covid-19 vaccine from ChinaZimbabwe has received its first Covid-19 vaccines with the arrival early Monday of an Air Zimbabwe jet carrying 200,000 Sinopharm doses from China, reports AP.No new Covid-19 case in Andaman and Nicobar IslandsAndaman and Nicobar Islands did not record a single fresh Covid-19 case in the last 24 hours, a health department official said on Monday, reports PTI.Maharashtra: Thane logs 354 new Covid-19 casesThe Covid-19 tally in Thane district of Maharashtra has gone up to 2,57,745 with the addition of 354 new cases of the viral infection, an official said on Monday, reports PTI.India reports 11,649 new Covid-19 cases, 90 deaths in last 24 hoursIndia reported 11,649 new Covid-19 cases and 90 deaths on Monday. The coronavirus caseload in the country crossed 10.91 million mark. The coronavirus death toll has reached 155, 732 and the active caseload stands at 139, 637.India to supply Covid-19 vaccines to CanadaIndia is likely to supply Covid-19 vaccines to Canada soon. Sources informed that decks have been cleared for the supply of vaccines following a personal request by Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, reports ANI.Brazil reports 2 cases of UK coronavirus variantBrazil has confirmed cases of the UK variant of the novel coronavirus in two states and in the federal district of Brasília, according to a statement from the health ministry on Sunday, reports Reuters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/live-brazil-reports-2-cases-of-uk-coronavirus-variant-101613352863809.html
16-02-2021||NA||Farmer stir Highlights: BKU's Rakesh Tikait slams Cong leader Vidya Rani||Farmer unions representatives have said that 40 leaders who have been spearheading the agitation against farm laws will travel across the country to gain support for its withdrawal.The ‘toolkit’ case took a fresh turn as Bangalore-based Disha Ravi was arrested by Delhi Police for allegedly editing and disseminating the "toolkit" on social media. Ravi has been sent to five days police custody.The Samyukt Kisan Morcha expressed concerns as the government has not yet given any dates for the next round of discussions. The Rashtriya Kisan Mazdoor Mahasangh (RKMS), a part of the SKM, has said that several Kisan Mahapanchayats are scheduled to be held across Madhya Pradesh starting February 15. Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra will also attend Kisan Mahapanchayats starting February 15 across Uttar Pradesh. She has reached Hapur and is slated to address her first Mahapanchayat later in Hapur.Farmers are protesting against the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance, and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 for almost 12 weeks. Farmers’ unions representatives say that these laws will pave the way for MNCs in the agricultural sector to reap profits and pave the way for corporate farming.They also fear the system of procurement under MSP will be affected. The Centre has repeatedly assured farmers that the MSP system will remain unaffected and said the laws will ensure doubling of farmers’ incomes.Follow live updates here:Follow all the updates here:BKU leader Rakesh Tikait replies to Congress leader Vidya Rani's remarksWhat is the use of liquor here? I don't know why she's making such comments. Such people don't have anything to do with the movement. It's wrong & shouldn't be done. They can distribute whatever they want to, at their movement: Rakesh Tikait, BKU on Congress' Vidya Rani's remark pic.twitter.com/FPNe9tueknBharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait, replying to Congress leader Vidya Rani's remarks, said "Such people don't have anything to do with the movement," reports ANI.In toolkit case, Shantanu seeks transit anticipatory bail; hearing on TuesdayShantanu Muluk has filled a transit anticipatory bail application before the Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court on Monday. The plea is similar to that of activist and lawyer Nikita Jacob who sought circulation of her transit anticipatory bail application on Monday morning before the bench of justice PD Naik.Delhi CM Kejriwal to address Kisan Mahapanchayat in Meerut on 28 Februaryमेरठ में कार्यकर्ता बैठक सम्पन्न 28 फ़रवरी को होगी “किसान महापंचायत” दिल्ली के मुख्यमंत्री @ArvindKejriwal जी किसानो को सम्बोधित करेंगे। 1857 की क्रान्तिभूमि मेरठ से उठेगी किसानो के हक़ में आवाज़। #काला_क़ानून_वापस_लोAam Aadmi Party leader Sanjay Singh tweeted that Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal would address the Kisan Mahapanchayat in Meerut on February 28.Three-member Supreme Court panel on farm laws holds consultations with expertsThe Supreme Court-appointed committee on the new farm laws on Monday said it held consultations with eminent academicians and agri-professionals on the legislations against which farmers have been protesting at Delhi's borders for over two months now, reports PTI.Click here to read moreAnil Deshmukh clarifies order to probe celebrity tweetsare also respected by the people across the nation hence, there is no question of probing them. A preliminary investigation by MH Police has revealed that BJP's IT cell chief and 12 other influencers are involved in the tweet case and police are taking action accordingly. (2/2)Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh clarified that he has ordered probe into celebrity tweets regarding farmers protests to verify if BJP's IT cell was involved and not on the celebrities themselves.Delhi police say Nikita, Shantanu attended video meeting by pro-Khalistani groupA woman named Puneet who is based in Canada connected these people to the Pro-Khalistani Poetic Justice Foundation. On 11th January Nikita and Shantanu attended a Zoom meeting organised by Poetic Justice Foundation in which modalities were chalked out: Prem Nath, Jt CP Cyber Cell pic.twitter.com/BgL0cr9uXsPrem Nath, Joint Commissioner of Police, Cyber Cell, said that Nikita and Shantanu had attended a Zoom meeting by the pro-Khalistani Poetic Justice Foundation, reports ANI.Sitaram Yechury says 'Government has to end persecution of young activists'The Modi government has to end such persecution of young activists forthwith. These youngsters are the future of India. Persecuting them under draconian laws will destroy our future.Stop this.  #DishaRavihttps://t.co/tXpJGk04eY pic.twitter.com/7TAMEPe1qsSitaram Yechury said "The Modi government has to end such persecution of young activists forthwith. These youngsters are the future of India," about the arrest of Disha Ravi.Priyanka Gandhi asks 'Why not withdraw farm laws if farmers themselves don't want it ?'Farmers sitting at Delhi borders for over 80 days in cold, are now bracing themselves for summer. What are they sitting for? PM says laws are for benefit of farmers. When farmers themselves are saying that they don't want it then why are you not withdrawing them?: Priyanka GV pic.twitter.com/x4mOMgl5JNPriyanka Gandhi Vadra asks "When farmers themselves are saying that they don't want it then why are you not withdrawing them?" reports ANI.Click here to read moreAdvocate Nikita Jacob moves Bombay HC for transit bail, reports PTIAdvocate Nikita Jacob who is being probed by Delhi Police for her alleged role in the 'toolkit' case approached the Bombay High Court seeking transit anticipatory bail. A Delhi Court had earlier in the day issued a non-bailable warrant against the advocate and other activist and Delhi Police has said that she along with others were conspiring with 'Khalistani element' to create a stir on social media ahead of Republic Day on January 26.Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi en route to Bijnor to address Kisan Mahapanchayatकांग्रेस महासचिव श्रीमती @priyankagandhi जी का कांग्रेस कार्यकर्ताओं ने बिजनौर जाने के दौरान हापुड़ में आत्मीय स्वागत किया। pic.twitter.com/VrnvcjhvagCongress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra was greeted by a large group of supporters in Hapur. She is on her way to Bijnor where she will address her first Kisan Mahapanchayat. Priyanka Gandhi Vadra will address two other Kisan Mahapanchayats over the next week.BKU's Ugrahan wing questions state of women safetyDisha Ravi was remanded 21 year old young woman five days custody to Delhi police without being represented by a lawyer which is clear violation of constitution.Our Sisters And Mothers Are not Safe in Modi Raj . Wake up to Fight against This Dictatorship #IndiaBeingSilenced pic.twitter.com/tGND2ucwKvThe farmers' union alleged that the government is failing to protect women and said that Disha's arrest is a 'clear violation of the Constitution'.Poetic Justice Foundation head contacted lawyer Nikita Jacob, reports ANI citing people familiar with developmentsFour days ago Special Cell team went to Nikita Jacob's house. Her electronic gadgets were examined. Delhi police says that they would visit again to question her but she is not available: Sources on Toolkit conspiracyNews agency ANI citing people familiar with the developments said that Poetic Justice Foundation head conducted meetings over Zoom with plans to create a stir on social media ahead of Republic Day. They also said that the meeting was attended by Nikita Jacob, Disha Ravi and other activists. The news agency said that Delhi Police had visited her home but did not find her present and will visit her again for questioning.Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury launches multi-pronged attack on govt with connection to Disha Ravi's arrest...It reflects your frustration in trouncing upon the independent thinking girl, putting her in jail. Today or tomorrow people of the country will deliver you a poetic justice. One swallow does not make a summer, I am with #GretaThunberg, I am with #DishaRavi,(3/3)Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said that the arrest of Disha Ravi shows that the government is frustrated with the ongoing protests against the farm laws. In a series of tweets, Chowdhury criticised the government for failing 'to uphold basic rights of common citzenry' and said that 'Satyagrahi' farmers have inflicted 'moral defeat' on the government. He said he firmly stands with Disha Ravi.Anil Vij denounces calls for Disha Ravi's releaseदेश विरोध का बीज जिसके भी दिमाग में हो उसका समूल नाश कर देना चाहिए फिर चाहे वह #दिशा_रवि हो यां कोई और ।The Haryana minister also said that any kind of 'anti-national ideas' stemming in one's mind should be nipped in the bud.Chhattisgarh CM joins group of politicians demanding Disha Ravi's releaseकायरता और फासीवाद उनकी विरासत है।#ReleaseDishaRaviChhattisgarh chief minister demanded the release of Disha Ravi, who has been remanded to 5-day police custody by a Delhi court, and condemned her arrest calling the entire episode an act of 'cowardice.'Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi demands release of Bengaluru-based climate activistडरते हैं बंदूकों वाले एक निहत्थी लड़की से फैले हैं हिम्मत के उजाले एक निहत्थी लड़की से#ReleaseDishaRavi #DishaRavi#IndiaBeingSilencedCongress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra in a tweeted voiced her support for climate activist Disha Ravi and shared a small poem in Hindi in support of her. Priyanka said that an unarmed girl has struck fears in the heart of the people who are armed with guns. She also said that Disha is emanating 'rays of hope and courage.'Delhi Police issue non-bailable warrants against 2 activistsNon-bailable warrants issued against Nikita Jacob and Shantanu. The two are involved in the toolkit matter: Delhi PoliceDelhi Police has said that the Delhi Police has issued non-bailable warrants against activists Nikita Jacob and Shantanu in the 'toolkit' case.Sanjay Singh says Centre is stifling people siding with the 'truth'तानाशाही का अंत जल्द होगा पर्यावरण की रक्षा के लिये संघर्ष करने वाली #DishaRavi ने किसानो के हक़ में आवाज़ उठाई तो उसे देश द्रोही बना दिया गया, मोदी राज में सच बोलना और हक़ बोलना “देश द्रोह” है। pic.twitter.com/WvbsBkEPvyThe Rajya Sabha MP in his tweet said the government is punishing the climate activist based in Bengaluru for raising her voice in support of farmers. He also said that speaking the truth and demanding for one's rights is being seen as a crime under the current government.Disha Ravi's arrest is an attack on democracy: Delhi CMArrest of 21 yr old Disha Ravi is an unprecedented attack on Democracy. Supporting our farmers is not a crime.Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal has condemned the arrest of Bengaluru-based climate activist Disha Ravi calling it an 'unprecendented attack' on democracy. He also said that supporting the farmers protesting the laws passed by the Centre is 'not a crime.'Cong senior leader Sibal criticises govt of climate activist's arrestDisha Ravi Climate Activist Is the state so weak that a tweet threatens its security ?Is the state so paranoid that a 22 year is a national security threat ?Is the state so intolerant that it cannot tolerate youth standing with farmers ?Is this the “badlav” Modiji wanted?Congress lawmaker Kapil Sibal tweeted on Monday condemning the arrest of Disha Ravi and questioned the government's stance on national security asking if it feels that a 21-year-old and a few teenagers can threaten security of the nation.Farmer leader Rakesh Tikait says farmers' unions have not yet raised slogans of 'gaddi wapsi'Farmer leader Rakesh Tikait said that farmers' unions representatives have only demanded repeal of laws and have not raised slogans of government's resignation.Borders remain closed at multiple points due to farmers' protestsSeveral borders remained closed at several points across Delhi's border due to the ongoing protests by farmers' unions. Noida to Delhi carriageway has been closed along with Ghazipur border. Read more here.Kisan Mahapanchayat to be held in Madhya Pradesh's KhargoneRashtriya Kisan Mazdoor Mahasangh (RKMM) Shiv Kumar Sharma announced on February 14 that the farmers' group will hold its first Kisan Mahapanchayat at Madhya Pradesh's Khargone at 12 pm on Monday.BKU expresses support for Disha RaviEnvironmental activist #DishaRavi in Bangalore has been framed on trumped up charges for just for sharing content. Police is hounding everyone who thinks and advocates good for the people! #FreeDishaRavi pic.twitter.com/ZLlzmAiHmRThe Bharatiya Kisan Union has extended its support to Bangalore-based climate activist Disha Ravi who was arrested on Sunday by the Delhi Police for editing and disseminating the 'toolkit' which police believe was responsible for the tractor rally violence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-laws-protests-disha-ravi-live-rakesh-tikait-centre-samyukt-kisan-morcha-deep-sidhu-narendra-tomar-rihanna-greta-thunberg-modi-yogendra-yadav-farmers-unions-101613354397139.html
16-02-2021||Today's||The world of Indian finance and banking is set for a major overhaul||In the Union Budget, finance minister (FM) Nirmala Sitharaman announced several policies for the financial sector, including, most notably, the privatisation of two of the 12 public sector banks (PSBs). New reports suggest that Bank of Maharashtra, Bank of India, Indian Overseas Bank and the Central Bank of India have been shortlisted with this objective. This is welcome as PSBs have, for long, been bleeding the Indian exchequer, symbolised in yet another recapitalisation of ₹20,000 crore in the same budget. PSBs have also created problems of dual regulation as highlighted by former RBI officials, Urjit Patel and Viral Acharya, in their respective books.The markets will keenly watch which two are finally chosen and, more importantly, who gets control of these banks. The Indian banking sector is getting concentrated with limited players. Whether the two banks go to existing players or new ones has to be seen in the context of recent controversies around whether Indian corporates should be allowed to own banks. The Deposit Insurance and Credit Guarantee Corporation Act, 1961, will also be amended, which will enable depositors to get their savings up to ₹5 lakh when the bank is under moratorium. Another important step is to set up an Asset Reconstruction Company Limited and Asset Management Company, which will buy the stressed assets of PSBs and sell it to other investors. Apart from privatising banks and establishing what appears to be akin to a bad bank, the government has also decided to privatise a general insurance company and make legislative changes for the listing of Life Insurance Corporation (LIC). This has implications for the financial sector as the government owns LIC, and LIC not just owns Industrial Development Bank of India (IDBI) but also has stakes in several other financial organisations. There is also a proposal to increase foreign direct investment in insurance from 49% to 74%.These decisions are monumental as they reverse a long history of nationalisation of the financial sector. LIC was nationalised in 1956, banks were nationalised in 1969 (and 1980) and general insurance companies were nationalised in 1972.As we move forward with reprivatising banks and insurance, the idea of starting a new Development Financial Institution (DFI) also takes us back to the 1960s. We already have several existing DFIs and most are either struggling or have got converted to banks as their business model was no longer viable. Unless this new DFI has better governance structures and clear targets avoiding turf wars with existing DFIs, a repeat cannot be ruled out as is also seen from the initial reports. A better idea to finance infrastructure is to develop the corporate bond market, which Indian capital markets have long been waiting for. The government has proposed setting up a body which will “purchase investment grade debt securities both in stressed and normal times and help in the development of the bond market”. This will be like the primary dealer system established in the 1990s to build activity in government bond markets.RBI’s policy created news in a totally unexpected domain. It has now allowed retail investors to open a securities account with itself to buy and sell government securities. For long, authorities have tried to open government bond markets to retail investors. This benefits the government as it broadens the investor base and gives retail investors more investment options. As financial intermediaries have struggled to deepen this retail market, RBI has decided to take matters into its own hands. But even if this is not the intent, the move does put RBI in competition with banks and mutual funds for retail savings. In case of a crisis in any bank, depositors now have the incentive to shift their funds not just between banks but also to RBI. Apart from this structural reform, RBI has also announced that it is studying whether India needs a Central Bank Digital Currency. Put it all together and it is clear that the world of Indian finance is set for major changes.Amol Agrawal is a faculty member at Ahmedabad University. He writes the Mostly Economics blogThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-world-of-indian-finance-and-banking-is-set-for-a-major-overhaul-101613486821537.html
16-02-2021||Today's||What Pangong means for Asian geopolitics||Defence minister Rajnath Singh announced the consensual disengagement of troops by both China and India at the contested Pangong lake in Parliament on February 11. This development, and the gradual pullback of tanks and the dismantling of infrastructure that has taken place by both militaries in a synchronised and verified manner, are cause for modest satisfaction. However, like the proverbial curate’s egg, the potential for good and bad outcomes in the long-term would have to be assessed in an objective and informed manner.In a nutshell, after nine rounds of talks between the military commanders, both sides have agreed to a process which will see Chinese troops pulling back east of Finger 8, while Indian troops will remain at Finger 3 near the Dhan Singh Thapa Post. The area between Finger 4 and Finger 8 will be a no-man’s land, with a temporary cessation of patrols and related military activities by both sides, pending further agreement between the two countries.Spurs along the Pangong lake have been designated as Fingers 1 to 8 from west to east. India has maintained that its claim line of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) extends up to Finger 8. In early 2020, China exploited a tactical gap and moved the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) troops up to Finger 4 and attempted to alter LAC by a show of force. India’s calibrated response of August 29 at the Kailash range enabled Delhi to acquire a certain tactical advantage. This proved to be a valuable negotiating asset in the protracted talks that culminated in the current disengagement process. Once this round of disengagement is complete, more negotiations will take place to reach the final Indian objective of a return to the status quo on LAC that prevailed in early 2020 prior to the “surprise” Chinese intrusion. It is significant that China has agreed to pull back from a position of relative tactical advantage and one may conjecture that the Indian occupation of the Kailash heights enabled this compromise.Many questions have been raised in India about the nature of this disengagement process and whether it is a fair deal. The Congress has termed the “creation of a buffer zone” as a “surrender of Indian interests”. In a written response, the ministry of defence has asserted that “India has not conceded any territory as a result of this agreement”. On the contrary, the statement says, India has “enforced observance and respect for LAC and prevented any unilateral change in the status quo”.While the disengagement process is a work-in-progress, it merits notice that the cessation of patrolling by both sides, in what is now a no-man’s land, is on the Indian side of LAC — that is west of Finger 8. Whether this will be a temporary arrangement for the Indian troops, pending further resolution of the long-festering territorial tangle between India and China, or whether it becomes the new status quo remains a key question. Of immediate concern also is the status of the Depsang plateau and the Y junction where China has acquired a tactical advantage that can jeopardise India’s access to Daulat Beg Oldi (DBO) and air assets in that region. While noting that the Depsang issue predates the Pangong intrusion, and there are other friction points in eastern Ladakh, India must remain cognisant of the big picture — the unresolved territorial dispute from west to east that spans almost 4,000 km.Will the current disengagement and the acceptance of a temporary suspension by India of patrolling rights in one area lead to greater malleability in managing LAC — remember China has been reluctant in clarifying LAC despite repeated Indian attempts — and provide a road map for transiting to an agreed border? That would be the most desirable outcome, in which case the current compromise by India would be a prudent political determination. An equitable and consensually settled border remains the elusive Holy Grail for Delhi.However, if this is only a brief pause for Beijing and President Xi Jinping as China prepares for a major political event — the July centenary celebrations of the Communist Party of China — and the PLA subsequently reverts to its pattern of territorial assertiveness at LAC, then the curate’s egg analogy would come into play. Delhi may rue the accommodations it has made in the current disengagement process. Any intractable issue, such as the impasse on Pangong, needs some give and take to find a way ahead. But Indian military commanders must remain acutely aware of the tactical and strategic stakes involved and proceed in a prudent manner with fallback plans for the less desirable exigency of LAC morphing into another Line of Control. This would be an unfortunate outcome and the price extracted would be substantial.Whatever the final outcome, it will have an impact on external interlocutors such as the United States (US), Russia and China’s other neighbours. While Delhi’s resolve to resist Beijing’s aggressive bellicosity effectively will be noted by the smaller nations, the Delhi-Beijing bilateral dynamic will also shape — and be shaped by — the US-China-India triangle. President Joe Biden has signalled that the US will hold Beijing’s feet to the fire over the Indo-Pacific and the principles of freedom of navigation and territorial integrity, with a continued focus on reinvigorating Quad.How China reads this message, and how it wishes to orient itself in relation to contested territoriality will shape many outcomes in Asia and beyond. Pangong is the bellwether.Commodore (retired) C Uday Bhaskar is director, Society for Policy StudiesThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/what-pangong-means-for-asian-geopolitics-101613486819689.html
16-02-2021||Today's||Enhancing competition in India’s power sector||Budget 2021 didn’t deal much with energy, but it wasn’t expected to, especially after Covid-19. There were, however, tweaks all around, and some forward-looking plans such as for hydrogen. There was a welcome announcement of ₹3,05,984 crore for distribution companies (discoms), which have been called the weakest link in India’s vision for clean and smart electricity. On average, they lose tens of paise per kilowatt-hour they sell, and service quality remains low.However, the budget was short on details. We have achieved almost 100% household electrification. Load-shedding is down. But the next steps on this journey are now more complex, with trade-offs and uncertainty. The aim is to unleash competition for efficiency and improvements. Competition can be through privatisation or third-party suppliers. Will this work? What are they expected to achieve?The private sector is meant to bring in not just efficiency, but also new capital. But most states haven’t chosen privatisation. Odisha (re)privatised in 2020, and the last one before that was Delhi in 2002. The Centre is aiming to bring in consumer choice through new distribution entities to compete against the incumbent monopoly public sector discoms.Consumer choice sounds good, but there are only two ways to make this happen. Either a new entrant has to lay down parallel infrastructure (which is unviably expensive — distribution is a natural monopoly), or one has to have structural separation between wires and retail (termed carriage and content separation). Due to headwinds and complexity, such separation went in and out of proposed amendments to the Electricity Act, 2003. New proposed amendments don’t mandate carriage and content separation, but achieve similar functionality via “delicensing” electricity distribution, mandating that new players be given unfettered access to existing wires.While new entrants may have access to the incumbent’s wires, how much gain is possible through management efficiency? Three-quarters of electricity prices are for power procurement, and not only do we have legacy generator power purchase agreements (PPAs), we also have enormous distortions and price variations across generators based on location, vintage, and type. Utilities which enjoy superior contracts will have cheaper power — it has less to do with management skills.Before we consider retail electricity competition, we must have wholesale competition. Wholesale power markets (through power exchanges) today handle only some five per cent of power. Wholesale competition suffers from the structural distortions listed above, and until we have liquidity in fuel markets and flexibility in PPAs, those with cheaper power will again be those who gain superior fuel and offtake contracts.The challenge is creating a liquid, competitive market with multiple players. Equally challenging, on the retail side, is the fact that a new entrant would want to cherry-pick consumers. Can a new entrant sufficiently differentiate itself? Say we have a consumer willing to pay a premium for quality supply, and wants to avoid diesel back-up power. They could ask for a “gold plan”, but who could deliver this to them? Today, supply decisions like load-shedding happen at the feeder level, with thousands of consumers as a group. How does a provider give better supply to one consumer without also giving better supply to all their neighbours? This free-rider problem was seen in Pune which attempted to prioritise supply to industry at a feeder level, including through niche express feeders. But some consumers along the way didn’t want to pay any premium. And then, consumer groups and regulators asked — shouldn’t everyone enjoy gold quality supply?The only way to technologically differentiate users is via smart meters, but these are not easy to deploy. Aggressive targets such as universal smart metering in three years risk not just failures to scale but the risks of discom unpreparedness (especially for the underlying databases of consumers and assets), high costs, and missing functionality. Smart meters are a powerful tool, but they should be driven by the individual business case per utility, which should drive the design. The Centre might cover some of the costs of smart meters but is external funding the real need? Smart meters also need smart pricing. It’s telling that, every year, we have underspent money on human capacity-building, which is a key gap for such transformations.We need to be much more aggressive in planning beyond the next few years — infrastructure lasts decades. We should use smart grids to solve not just “yesterday’s problems” such as losses and theft, but tomorrow’s challenges of managing electric vehicles and a complex system where end-users have not just cheap rooftop solar but even batteries and peer-to-peer transactions (if allowed).Fixing discoms is a pressing need, but it’s worth investing time in figuring out the details, including expected winners and losers, and possibilities for gaming. Otherwise, there will be resistance, or we may find many unintended consequences. Are states ready to depoliticise electricity, and pay their consumption dues and subsidies obligations on time? Improvements need not just money but the alignment of incentives and political will. This may require more consequences for failures to perform instead of bailouts, repeated extensions of deadlines, or ignoring failures to comply with norms. Until this changes, we risk throwing good money after bad.Rahul Tongia is senior fellow, Centre for Social and Economic Progress (CSEP)The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/enhancing-competition-in-india-s-power-sector-101613486817789.html
16-02-2021||Today's||In its centenary year, the CCP’s revisionist history||In July, the Communist Party of China (CCP) will celebrate its centenary. This is the most important event in the CCP’s political calendar. It presents an opportunity for the leadership to highlight developmental achievements, which are seen as critical to its legitimacy. Economic development, however, is one of many factors that feed the algorithm of legitimacy. Viewing the question of legitimacy simply from a transactional prism of the party ensuring developmental outcomes in exchange for obedience is reductive, resulting in a misunderstanding of what sustains CCP rule in China. History, or more precisely, building and guiding a supportive historical narrative is crucial too.Soon after assuming power as CCP general secretary in late 2012, Xi Jinping clamped down on what he warned were “nihilistic” views of history. Since then, there has been an effort to weed out deviations from the party’s historical canon. The CCP’s version of history draws upon the narrative of the century of humiliation to then present a neat classification of periods within which China has “stood up, grown rich, and is becoming strong” under CCP rule.Such simplistic framing overlooks the different visions of the directions that post-Qing China could have taken, the grave failures of Mao Zedong’s time in power, and the policy contestation that led to and followed the start of reform and opening up. These rarely ever get reflected in official public discourse, for doing so would undermine the notion of a party driven by a “historical purpose” and vision towards a destination called national rejuvenation. As Ouyang Song, former director of the Party History Research Office, argued in a recent People’s Daily piece, it is important to stick to the “main line” of party history. Forming the “correct view of history,” for him, also requires the party to focus on Xi’s thought as “the fundamental guide.”Ouyang Song’s piece was part of the centenary propaganda push that the People’s Daily began in January to highlight the “century of struggle” while emphasising the “new struggle” that lies ahead. Since then, every day, the paper has discussed historical events in order to capture the essence of “red history.” In these narratives, there are heroes and martyrs, who, driven by revolutionary zeal, overcame adversity to forge the “New China”. For example, earlier this month, Gao Xiang, president of the Chinese Academy of History, argued that as soon as it was established, the CCP “took up the historical mission of achieving the great rejuvenation of the Chinese nation”. He claims that the party “united and led the Chinese people in a bloody battle” against the Japanese “imperialists” and “reactionary” Kuomintang. The reality, however, is far messier, and to say that these stories embellish the past is a gross understatement. But their goal is not to provide factually accurate accounts. The objective is to frame a unitary view of the past while building linkages to the present. This is something that Xi Jinping has proven rather adept at throughout his time in power. For instance, in October 2017, after the 19th party Congress, he travelled to Shanghai to the site of the first party Congress, which was held in 1921. Likewise, the 2019 campaign of staying true to the party’s original aspirations focused on ensuring that the cadre maintains “unity in thought, political orientation and action”. Often, the party’s discipline or anti-corruption campaigns draw on lessons from periods of “self-revolution”. These refer to instances of intense internal contestation and purges. This is evident again in repeated references to the Yan’an rectification movement since last year, as Xi moves to consolidate power across law enforcement organs.In essence, for the party, history serves many purposes. It is a tool to glorify, vilify and mobilise when needed; an instrument to reinforce the inevitability of its rise; a trend that is driven by certain “laws,” grasping which can ensure greater and continued power; a bestower of legacy; an instructive guide for self-revolution; and of course, a battlefield in which defeat can present an existential challenge.Manoj Kewalramani is fellow, China Studies, at the Takshashila InstitutionThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/in-its-centenary-year-the-ccp-s-revisionist-history-101613482377084.html
16-02-2021||Today's||Aligning growth, politics and climate||As Covid-19 vaccines roll out, the focus has shifted to economic recovery. Yet, we have not had a political conversation about whether the kind of economy we want is in line with what the planet needs. India cannot continue with the folly of a business-as-usual development model. What factors could make political leaders champion a more climate-friendly pathway to prosperity?Political representatives must deliver on restoring growth and attracting investment. Markets demand it. They must create conditions to revive old jobs and create new ones. People demand it. Without resources of the market or votes of the people, politicians have little future.Meanwhile, the planet continues to sound warning bells. Take Uttarakhand, where the frequency and intensity of extreme flood events have increased four-fold since 1970. Rising temperatures and micro-climatic changes have ensured that drought/drought-like situations have doubled.How can we align the people’s present with the planet’s future? One driver is crisis. Political leaders could have used the pandemic to promote a greener recovery. Renewable energy capacity continued to be contracted during the pandemic. But the share of renewables in the primary energy mix remains marginal, rising from 0.1 to 2% in the past decade. Effort and investment must exponentially increase.When crises lose steam, enthusiasm for reform wanes. A second driver is external pressure. From United States (US) President Joe Biden’s climate leaders summit (April), the G-7 in the United Kingdom (June) to the United Nations’ High-Level Dialogue on Energy (September), G-20 meetings (October), and Conference of the Parties-26 climate negotiations (November), India will face pressure this year to announce a target year for net-zero emissions.Bilateral economic relationships will matter more. The European Union (EU) plans to introduce a Carbon Border Adjustment Mechanism as a part of a broader agenda to reduce emissions by at least 55% by 2030 below 1990 levels. The US might also consider border carbon tariffs. Whereas energy-efficient cement producers in India might benefit, its steel and automobile exports could be affected. The EU and the US being significant trading partners, India will likely dispute such unilateral moves. But trade-environment linkages will increasingly influence policy.Crises are relatively short-lived and countries don’t like being pressured by outsiders. For systemic change to be environmentally and politically sustainable, interests of the elite and the climate-vulnerable must converge. Budget 2021 did not explicitly envision a low-carbon India, but showed initial signs of such convergence. Consider three major sectors, power, mobility and heavy industry. Of late, power investment has been mostly in renewables — from private sources. As renewables succeed, opposition from thermal power asset owners and distribution companies grows. State-run distribution companies (discoms) are locked into power purchase agreements that force them to buy from inefficient coal power plants, whereas investments in newer plants yield low returns, thanks to low-plant load factors.Is a new alignment of interests possible? The budget proposed ₹3.5 lakh crore ($48 billion) to help ailing discoms. If support for installing pre-paid smart meters were results-linked, the package could improve the balance sheets of discoms. But support should be contingent on stricter enforcement of renewable purchase obligations, respecting contract sanctity. Further, India could save about ₹20,000 crore by shutting down inefficient plants, support their employees, create vastly more jobs (especially in distributed renewables), and level the field for a new power elite.The automotive sector might resist disruptive and rapid acceleration towards e-mobility. But India’s 2030 vision for e-mobility is a $206-billion opportunity. Aiming to boost the industry and generate direct/indirect jobs, the finance minister announced ₹15,000 crore for public transport and inducting 20,000 city buses using clean fuel. There is also the ongoing FAME-II scheme with ₹10,000 crore approved for hybrid/electric buses. A Green Urban Mobility Challenge ( ₹3,000 crore) for innovations in non-motorised transport and bus retrofits is promising. Urban mobility can edge towards sustainability, if it addresses the mobility needs of the majority while a potential new auto elite and new workforce emerge.The hardest task is decarbonising heavy industry. Steel, cement, fertiliser and petrochemicals are growing rapidly, responsible for three-quarters of industrial emissions. This is why the budget’s announcement of a National Hydrogen Mission could be a game-changer. It signals that India is seriously considering an alternative to fossil fuels for strategic industrial sectors. With the potential of 1.9 million jobs in the green hydrogen supply chain, this could deliver the ultimate convergence of interests between big capital and labour.India continues to witness the wanton destruction of biodiversity and fragile ecosystems from ill-planned and poorly executed infrastructure projects. The contractor-politician nexus will not weaken easily. But these examples indicate a pathway to reform, strengthening the politician’s hand when new market interests and people’s priorities align with sustainable choices. Days after the Chamoli glacial burst, will a climate leader step up in India, build coalitions with an emerging green elite and make the welfare of the people and the planet an electorally winning issue?Dr Arunabha Ghosh is CEO, Council on Energy, Environment and Water The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/aligning-growth-politics-and-climate-101613394230556.html
16-02-2021||Today's||How UAPA curtails personal liberty, undermines fair trial||The recent finding of Arsenal Consulting, an American digital forensics firm, that the laptop of jailed activist Rona Wilson had been tampered with, has brought the infamous Bhima Koregaon case back into the spotlight. The case arose out of certain events on January 1, 2018 (the anniversary of the 19th century battle of Bhima Koregaon), and led to the arrest of numerous well-known activists and civil society figures, such as Sudha Bharadwaj and Varavara Rao. These individuals were accused of participating in a conspiracy against the life of the prime minister, and have now been in jail for more than two years. Multiple bail applications have been denied, but the trial is yet to start.The Arsenal report is important because it casts doubt upon a key lynchpin of the prosecution’s case — a series of letters alleged to have been recovered from Wilson’s laptop — which spelt out the details of the conspiracy. While legal wrangles will undoubtedly follow about whether — and how — this new material is considered by the court (a petition has already been filed in the Bombay High Court), these circumstances and the Bhima Koregaon case offer an opportunity to focus on the numerous problems with criminal trials in India.At the heart of the issue is Section 43D(5) of the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA). UAPA is India’s anti-terror law, and has been invoked in the Bhima Koregaon case. This law makes it very difficult for judges to grant bail in UAPA cases, by effectively barring the grant of bail as long as a prima facie case exists against the accused. The Arsenal report is a good example of how this operates in practice. For the report to be considered by a court, it will need to be introduced as evidence by the accused, its authors will need to be cross-examined by the prosecution, and the prosecution will (likely) produce its own expert witnesses to rebut the report’s conclusions.Given the pace at which criminal trials proceed in India, speaking optimistically, this is unlikely to happen in less than a year. None of this, however, will affect the prima facie validity of the case against the accused (which requires the court to assume that the emails are genuine), and consequently, because of Section 43D(5), the accused will continue to remain in jail.The combination of two factors, therefore — Section 43D(5) and the long pace of trials in India — effectively means that the moment UAPA is mentioned in the police charge-sheet, anyone accused in that case is, for all practical purposes, sentenced to many years in jail without trial. UAPA compels courts to look only at the police version, discount the defence’s arguments (as these can only be raised during the trial), and, on that basis, decide whether or not to grant bail.This situation has been made worse by Supreme Court (SC) judgments such as the notorious Watali case which, instead of interpreting such draconian laws in order to expand the scope of personal liberty, have made the grant of bail even more difficult — by giving vague and wide-ranging definitions to terms such as “conspiracy”, and preventing courts from making even common-sense conclusions about evidence that is clearly inconsistent or manufactured. While there is still space for courts to interpret UAPA in a manner that does not entirely efface personal liberty, very few such judgments have been forthcoming.Very recently, however, there were small signs that the pendulum might be swinging back. In another judgment, the SC noted that courts could grant bail in UAPA cases where fundamental rights had been violated (such as the right to a fair trial, due to extensive delay). This is a beginning, but not enough.To stop UAPA from continuing to be the tool of repression that it has become, it is vital that the courts either strike down — or substantially read down — this section, and ensure that years in jail do not become an automatic consequence of the police’s (read: the State’s) decision to charge inconvenient opponents under this law.Gautam Bhatia is a Delhi-based advocate The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/how-uapa-curtails-personal-liberty-undermines-fair-trial-101613394052106.html
16-02-2021||Today's||Bridge the geopolitical distance with Russia||Foreign secretary Harsh Shringla’s forthcoming visit to Moscow is a good occasion to examine the relevance of Indo-Russian ties in a world of changing geopolitical equations, greatly accelerated by the Covid-19 pandemic. The year 2020 saw several trends that impacted both India and Russia — the sharpening rivalry between United States (US) and China, the India-China border tussle, the continuing decline in ties between the West and Russia, and the change of guard in Washington.No issue affected the Indo-Russian relationship as much as the border tensions between India and China. The Chinese aggression, in April/May 2020, in the border areas of eastern Ladakh, brought India-China relations to an inflexion point, but also demonstrated that Russia is capable of contributing to defusing tensions with China. On the other hand, Russia’s seeming equivocation initially diminished its standing among the Indian public.However, that changed after the first bilateral high-level political contacts between India and China took place in Moscow on the sidelines of a September meeting of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation. The Indian defence minister, Rajnath Singh, and external affairs minister, S Jaishankar, met their Chinese counterparts on September 5 and 10 respectively. Earlier in June, Singh had visited Moscow to attend the Victory Day Parade. During the visit, he met Russian defence minister Sergey Shoigu and other officials. The Russians promised to positively look at India’s requests for expedited arms deliveries in view of the border conflict, despite some informal appeals against it by the Chinese.The developments of 2020, preceded by the immensely successful Prime Minister Narendra Modi-President Vladimir Putin Sochi meeting in May 2018 and the pathbreaking Vladivostok summit in September 2019, may give the impression that Indo-Russian ties can be now put into cruise mode, having overcome the earlier hiatus. However, some ongoing geopolitical trends suggest that such a conclusion is premature.The inflexion point reached by India in its relations with China has driven New Delhi to shed “past hesitations” and actively pursue more hard-nosed policies to protect its perceived national interests. This has included the pursuit of a closer relationship with the US; a determined restart to the Quad process — a coming together of India, Japan, Australia and the US; a clearer enunciation of “a free and inclusive” Indo-Pacific; an energetic neighbourhood policy; as well as intensified outreach to east and west Asia.Russia, for its part, has, since 2014, faced deteriorating ties with the US-led West following the Ukraine crisis, exacerbated now by the Western reaction to the poisoning and post-recovery jailing of anti-government political activist Alexey Navalny.Russia responded to these efforts to isolate it, by revving up its own “Pivot to the East”, the most distinct results of which are markedly improved relations with China, and better ties with Turkey (despite a brief hiccup), Iran and Pakistan. Russia, also, has officially been cold towards the concept of the Indo-Pacific, seeing it as a design to contain China. It is important to note, however, that Russia repeatedly reiterates that it does not see itself as anybody’s junior partner.These trends combined with bilateral economic ties well below their potential, and possible differences developing over the “new friends” of the two countries, would suggest that India-Russia relations are likely to face some turbulence ahead.If recent steps by India are an indication, then it appears that policymakers are aware of the pitfalls and are taking steps to intensify contacts and diversify areas of cooperation with Russia. Apart from traditional areas of cooperation such as weapons, hydrocarbons, nuclear energy and diamonds, new sectors of economic engagement are likely to emerge — mining, agro-industrial, and high technology, including robotics, nanotech and biotech. India’s footprint in the Russian Far East and in the Arctic is set to expand. Connectivity projects may get a boost too.India and Russia are working to close the gap on Afghanistan and are calling for early finalisation of the Comprehensive Convention on International Terrorism. Additionally, Russia supports India’s candidacy for permanent membership of a reformed United Nations Security Council and of the Nuclear Suppliers Group. India and Russia also plan to intensify cooperation on regional and global issues within the framework of the Eurasian Economic Union, Brazil, Russia, India, China, South Africa, SCO, Russia, India, China, and G20. India should pursue and facilitate Russia’s engagement in the Indo-Pacific. Russia may not use the term Indo-Pacific for some more time, but its active engagement, irrespective of motive, in the region would speak louder than any words and contribute to making the Indo-Pacific “free and inclusive”.Finally, world powers, particularly those engaging with India in the Indo-Pacific, must know that a multi-polar Euro-Asian supercontinent is not possible without Russia. Preventing the emergence of a hegemon in Eurasia without Russia, given its size and resources, is well-nigh impossible. Today Russia, like India, desires a world with many centres of power. The opportunity must not be lost.Nandan Unnikrishnan is a distinguished fellow, Observer Research FoundationThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/bridge-the-geopolitical-distance-with-russia-101613393990382.html
16-02-2021||Editorials||India’s new mapping policy is a good step | HT Editorial||The government has announced radical changes to the country’s mapping policy by liberalising regulations on geospatial data and maps. With this constructive step, the Centre aims to make geospatial data and modern mapping technologies available to Indian companies so that they are not dependent on foreign resources. The existing regime is outdated since it imposes significant restrictions on the mapping industry, and requires Indian companies to follow a cumbersome system of pre-approvals and permissions to get licences. In recent years, there has been an increase in the use of geospatial data by many businesses such as app-based delivery companies, telecom and banking, to name a few. The private sector has been demanding a more comprehensive, accurate, granular, and constantly updated representation of geospatial data. The government too needs similar data for national infrastructure projects such as the creation of industrial corridors, deployment of smart power systems, modernising urban transport systems, and emerging initiatives such as Digital India and Smart Cities. But it is nearly impossible for the government alone to map the entire country, that too with high accuracy and quickly. With more players coming into the fray, this process will speed up. While Indian entities will be free to use this data and build on it, foreign entities and foreign-owned or -controlled Indian companies can license from Indian entities. This can augment public-private partnerships. The government also expects an increase in investment in the geospatial sector by private companies. The next generation of mapping technology is coming into its own, and the policy will enable Indian innovators to create substantial advances in mapping domestically, and eventually play a role in the sector globally.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/indias-new-mapping-policy-is-a-good-step-hteditorial-101613486758878.html
16-02-2021||Editorials||Reboot the vaccine strategy | HT Editorial||In the span of a month since it began the coronavirus vaccination drive, India has administered roughly 8.5 million doses till February 15. Large supplies and a profuse network of centres meant India delivered more doses than any other country in the initial couple of weeks. But, as this newspaper noted on January 29, the trajectory stagnated, contrary to the rapid expansion seen in other countries and the expectations of authorities. This is best captured in India being overtaken by the United States (US) in the race for the first 10 million doses — the US took 31 days, while India is unlikely to hit that mark until later this week, or at least till 35-36 days after January 16.A host of problems are impeding efforts to scale up. The most persistent is hesitancy, which is catalysed by the fact that the outbreak has receded in recent weeks. Misplaced fears about serious side-effects and confusion about who needs a dose, when they should take it, and which vaccine is safe have also played a part in keeping the turnout under 50% (of targeted vaccinations per session) on average. Lately, this seems to be an even bigger concern when it comes to getting people to take their second doses — the turnout for this is even lower. The government has said it has a target of 300 million vaccinations by August, a little under six months away. One month in, it has managed to hit less than 3% of that target.Experience from other countries suggests the lull in the Covid-19 case count in India may be short-lived. It could face a surge as citizens becomes complacent and careless with regard to Covid-appropriate behaviour, or the population now protected due to past infection could start to see reinfections. Data from Maharashtra, for instance, suggests a rise in cases. Worse still, mutations of the kind seen in the United Kingdom, South Africa or Brazil could arise. On the logistical side, the millions of doses stockpiled by vaccine makers will begin to near the end of their shelf life, while summer temperatures could raise the risk of wastage even further. Altogether, these factors mean the window may be shrinking for India to avoid another wave by using vaccines. It is imperative now that at least a million vaccinations are done in a day, and five million a day by April. And the process can begin by opening up access to the general public.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/reboot-the-vaccine-strategy-hteditorial-101613486757620.html
16-02-2021||Editorials||Disha Ravi’s arrest is wrong||Disha Ravi, a 22-year old Bengaluru-based environmental activist, has been accused of sedition, promoting religious enmity and engaging in criminal conspiracy, among other offences. After the Delhi Police detained her in Bengaluru on Saturday, and formally arrested her the next day, a Delhi magistrate has remanded her to a five-day police custody. The principal basis for the allegations against Ms Ravi is that she was involved in framing and editing a “toolkit”, which outlined measures to protest against farm laws; that she provided activist Greta Thunberg the “toolkit”; that the violence on January 26 copied the “action plan” in the toolkit; and this also had the involvement of Khalistani groups.Ms Ravi’s arrest throws up three issues. The first is the role of the State. The government has decided to politically invest in a narrative of a global foreign conspiracy against India, of which the “toolkit” is evidence. But the evidence to suggest such a conspiracy is limited. Despite its objectionable characterisation of the Indian State in parts, did the “toolkit” — a common technique in both political and civil society campaigns now — really lead to the violence on January 26? Is there direct evidence? At a time when India is facing criticism for growing illiberalism, is arresting young activists the most ethical or prudent course of action? How does it sync with India’s constitutional guarantees on free speech and political activity?The second is the role of the judiciary. The metropolitan magistrate’s decision to remand Ms Ravi to custody, without her private counsel being present, without questions about the process of her arrest, and without adequate scrutiny of the charges and evidence, does not reflect well. Courts must treat cases involving personal liberty with more rigour, rather than casually send people to jail when bail should be the norm. And finally, there is the role of activists themselves. Dissent is indeed a right, and taking up positions — even if they are logically inconsistent (how environmental activists stand in support of the ecologically unsustainable practices of Punjab’s farmers is a mystery) — is also a right. But often, activists end up getting used in larger political games. The fact that pro-Khalistan groups are actively seeking to leverage the current farm protests is not a secret, which makes it even more important for civil society to maintain its distinct identity and position on the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/disha-ravi-s-arrest-is-wrong-101613395013507.html
16-02-2021||Editorials||The State must ensure safe mobility options||The State must provide safe mobility options and better roads; regularly conduct road safety audits; overhaul the accident response systems; scrutinise detailed project reports on road construction; cond-uct fitness checks of on-road vehicles; and push auto manufacturers to ensure better safety features. But first, India must accept that the accidents on its roads now constitute a serious public health crisis.Sixteen labourers died and five others were hurt after a truck in which they were travelling overturned in Maharashtra’s Jalgaon district on Sunday. On the same day, in another road mishap, 14 people were killed and four others injured after a minibus collided with a truck in Andhra Pradesh’s Kurnool district. These two accidents are a stark reminder that India’s roads have become death traps. Last week, Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari acknowledged the dire situation, and said that India’s road accident scenario is more “dangerous than the Covid-19 pandemic”.According to a just-released World Bank report, Traffic Crash Injuries And Disabilities: The Burden on Indian Society, despite having only 1% of the world’s vehicles, India accounts for the highest number of road accidents globally, killing 150,000 people and leaving more than 450,000 with disabilities every year. The poor suffer the most. More than 75% of poor households reported a decline in their income due to a road mishap. Low-income households (LIH) reported twice the numbers of deaths post-crash vis-à-vis high-income households, while victims from LIH and rural areas are also twice more likely to suffer a disability after a crash than high-income households.The State must provide safe mobility options and better roads; regularly conduct road safety audits; overhaul the accident response systems; scrutinise detailed project reports on road construction; conduct fitness checks of on-road vehicles; and push auto manufacturers to ensure better safety features. But first, India must accept that the accidents on its roads now constitute a serious public health crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-state-must-ensure-safe-mobility-options-101613394655290.html
