18-02-2021||Other||BJP councillor, local office bearer joins AAP||New Delhi: A BJP councillor and a district level office bearer joined the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Thursday, said AAP leader Durgesh Pathak, even as he accused the BJP of corruption and cited that as a reason for office bearers in Delhi leaving the party ahead of the 2022 municipal polls.The BJP dismissed the allegations as “baseless”.While the AAP is in charge of the government in Delhi, the BJP rules the three municipal corporations. Later this month, five municipal wards in the city will go polls. Full elections to the three corporations will be held next year.“People in Delhi are fed up with BJP’s corruption. That is also one reason why people who want to work for the people are leaving the party and joining the AAP. They believe that the AAP has a vision and we have proved that through our work in welfare and governance,” said the AAP’s municipal affairs in charge Durgesh Pathak, at a press conference in the party’s office in central Delhi on Thursday.In the conference, Pathak announced the induction of Rekha Dixit, the councillor of Anarkali ward in east Delhi, and Shravan Dixit, who was the BJP’s district general secretary in Shahdara.Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said, “These allegations are baseless. If Mr Pathak feels that BJP councillors are corrupt, why is he welcoming them now? Few people who have failed in their duties as councillors and senior office bearers, and have learnt that they are not going to be given tickets for the next polls at any cost, are leaving the party and it is surprising that the AAP is happily welcoming them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bjp-councillor-local-office-bearer-joins-aap-101613672265709.html
18-02-2021||Mumbai||South African national arrested with 3kg heroin worth ₹9 crore at Mumbai airport||The Mumbai zonal unit of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) arrested a foreign national at Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) on Thursday and allegedly recovered 3kg of heroin worth ₹9 crore in the illicit market.NCB zonal director Samir Wankhede said the arrested accused, identified as Khanyisile Promise Khalishwayo, is a South African national who had come to Mumbai from Johannesburg.NCB officers had received prior information about the woman and had laid a trap at the airport. They intercepted her at CSMIA, once her flight landed.Khalishwayo was carrying a grey trolley bag in which she had concealed two packets containing the contraband material. One more packet was found in her handbag, said NCB officer. The total weight of the three packets containing the heroin was 2.960kg. NCB allegedly also recovered 10,000 South African Rand ( ₹49,819) from her possession.The woman has been booked under relevant sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985. She is being interrogated to find out who she was supposed to deliver the drugs to.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/south-african-national-arrested-with-3kg-heroin-worth-9-crore-at-mumbai-airport-101613672265237.html
18-02-2021||Delhi||Farmers’ rail roko agitation has minimal impact, passes off peacefully||While farmers demanding the repeal of agriculture laws declared their four-hour rail blockade on Thursday a success, railway officials said it had “negligible impact” on train services. Delhi remained largely unaffected by the agitation.Farmers of Haryana, Jharkhand, Odisha, Punjab, Rajasthan, Maharashtra, West Bengal, Madhya Pradesh, and Karnataka staged sit-in protests on the railway tracks in these states, while demanding the repeal of the three farm laws.“Trains were stopped from 12 noon to 4pm at hundreds of locations across the country as part of the rail roko agitation under the banner of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM). It was a peaceful and successful event,” SKM leader Jagmohan Singh said. He added that by engaging in the programme, people had shown that they “opposed the attitude of the central government towards the farmers’ movement”.The farmers had announced the four-hour rail roko as part of their efforts to scale up the agitation against the three contentious farm laws. “We had given the call for the rail roko agitation to be held outside Delhi,” said Harinder Singh, media coordinator at SKM. “Anger among farmers is intensifying and the central government will have to repeal the laws,” SKM said in a statement on Thursday. Farmer leaders also visited various spots on Thursday and appealed to people to “come to the Delhi borders to strengthen the movement.”Train movement in all zones was normal by Thursday evening. “The rail roko agitation passed off without any untoward incident. There was negligible or minimal impact on the running of trains across the country. A majority of the zones reported not a single case of any stoppage of train by the agitators,” the ADG (PR) of the Railway Board said in a statement.“A few trains were stopped in some areas, but train operations was normal by evening. While dealing with the rail roko agitation, utmost patience was exercised by all concerned,” the statement added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/farmers-rail-roko-agitation-has-minimal-impact-passes-off-peacefully-101613672263584.html
18-02-2021||Pune||PMC gives 15% rebate to regular property taxpayers||Pune: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), on Thursday, offered residents paying their property tax regularly, a 15 per cent rebate. The general body of the PMC announced the 15 per cent rebate in property tax in the next financial year, 2021-22. Recently, PMC had an amnesty scheme for property tax defaulters and gave an 80 per cent waiver of the fine. Mayor Murlidhar Mohol and standing committee chairman Hemant Rasne said, “As the PMC had given the benefit for defaulters, there was a demand to give some relief for the honest taxpayers who are paying tax regularly. Already, PMC is giving a 10 per cent and five per cent rebate if general tax is paid in the first two months of the financial year.”Rasne said, “Now as per the new scheme, all the honest taxpayers who used to pay tax regularly will get 15 per cent tax rebate directly. This scheme is only for residential properties.”The general body of the PMC on Thursday rejected the a 11 percent hike in the property tax proposed by municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar, while presenting the draft budget.All parties rejected the tax hike in the online general body meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-gives-15-rebate-to-regular-property-taxpayers-101613672263049.html
18-02-2021||Delhi||Court pulls up police over delayed filing of charge sheets||Upset that the charge sheet in a particular case was delayed by more than a year and a half, a Delhi court has directed assistant commissioners of police (ACPs) of the south-east district to furnish details of all charge sheets that were filed over the past three years.Additional chief metropolitan magistrate (ACCM) Arvind Bansal directed the ACPs to prepare a list of all charge sheets between 2018 and ­2020 while also asking them to seek the status of filing from the IOs concerned.“This exercise would definitely unearth many “hidden ghosts (files)” and wake up many “souls (IOs)” from slumber,” the judge said. The court also asked the deputy commissioner of police (south-east district) to file a compliance report in this regard.The case pertains to the alleged rash and negligent driving by a person, Ravi Yadav, in 2017 on the Modi Mill Flyover. According to the complaint by Lallu Ram Morya, Yadav had rammed his motorcycle leading to Maurya sustaining injuries.The IO had not submitted the charge sheet before the court till January 2021, even though the file was cleared by the ACP concerned in October 2018.While noting that the IO retained the charge sheet for “reasons best known to him”, Bansal said the filing of the charge sheet was done only when an application was moved by one of the parties. “The retaining of “forwarded” files by IOs... may further result in the accused fleeing from justice and witnesses disappearing or losing interest in the case. It creates an overall disappointing scenario for all stakeholders. It is felt that a time period for filing forwarded charge sheets must be fixed and IOs must be asked to strictly comply with the same. Such time (frame) should not be more than 30 days from the date of forwarding of charge sheet by the ACP concerned,” he further said. The court said the IOs need to understand that investigation of all summon cases generally needs to be concluded within six months of the accused being arrested, and failure may result in the magistrate stopping further investigation into the case.“...most IOs are not aware of this provision and therefore, continue investigation even after the initial period of six months….It is incumbent upon DCP concerned that this provision is reminded to IOs,” the judge said in his order of February 16..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/court-pulls-up-police-over-delayed-filing-of-charge-sheets-101613672205876.html
18-02-2021||Delhi||Woman kills husband for stopping her from sending money to son||Angry with her husband for not allowing her to send a monthly allowance to her five-year-old son from her previous marriage, a 24-year-old woman strangled him to death at their home in south Delhi’s Fatehpur Beri on Monday, the police said.After killing 25-year-old Om Prakash Kumar, the woman, identified only by her first name Sunita, took his body to Safdarjung Hospital saying that he had suddenly collapsed and died of natural causes, the police said. “But the post-mortem revealed ligature marks on the neck of the dead man, pointing to murder. When we questioned his wife, she confessed to killing him,” said Atul Kumar Thakur, deputy commissioner of police (south).Kumar lived with Sunita in a rented house in Fatehpur Beri. While Kumar was unemployed, Sunita worked at banquet halls in the city.They had married early last year following the death of Sunita’s first husband. “Sunita has a five-year-old son from her first marriage. The boy lives with his grandmother in Bihar and Sunita would send him a monthly allowance of ₹5,000,” said the DCP.Kumar objected to this and that lead to frequent quarrels between the couple, the officer said.On Monday morning, during one such quarrel, Sunita allegedly strangled her husband with a dupatta, the officer said, adding that she then raised the alarm and informed neighbours that he had suddenly collapsed.Kumar was rushed to Safdarjung Hospital from where the police received a call. Once the autopsy report revealed that Kumar was murdered, the police focused their attention on Sunita.“The woman’s interrogation led to her revealing that she had killed him. We have arrested her,” the DCP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/woman-kills-husband-for-stopping-her-from-sending-money-to-son-101613672144479.html
18-02-2021||Other||Sion hospital doctor, associate arrested in second cheating case||manish.pathak@htlive.comMumbai Sion police have again arrested Dr Rakesh Verma, the assistant dean of the Lokmanya Tilak General Hospital at Sion, and his associate Rajesh Guha, in connection with a second cheating case lodged against him. The two men are accused of taking ₹18.50 lakh from a Hyderabad-based doctor for allegedly securing a postgraduate (PG) medical seat for him.The third accused, Pankaj Dubey, who allegedly approached the complainant and took ₹15 lakh as advance, is on the run.“Both the accused were in judicial custody, and after the second FIR (first information report) was registered against them, we made the arrests again on Tuesday. They were produced in the court and remanded in police custody till Saturday,” said inspector Dilip Ghuge from Sion police station.Sion hospital dean Dr Mohan Joshi said, “I am not aware about the second case registered against Dr Verma or about his second arrest.”Verma and Guha were arrested last December for allegedly taking ₹50 lakh from a Pune-based doctor after promising to secure a PG medical seat for her. After Dr Verma’s first arrest, Dr Joshi had said that he could not comment anything much as the police inquiry was ongoing. According to the police, the 36-year-old complainant from Hyderabad received a call from Dubey in August 2020, offering him a seat for a PG medical course. When the complainant expressed his wish to pursue the Master of Surgery in Orthopaedics course from Mumbai, Dubey informed him that there were seats available, for which he will have to pay a donation of ₹1.40 crore. The complainant refused to do so.Some days later, Dubey again contacted the complainant and offered him a seat in exchange for ₹90 lakh. Following negotiations, the amount was brought down to ₹70 lakh, which were to be paid in instalments, said a police officer.The complainant then came to Mumbai on August 20, 2020. Dubey sent Guha to meet the complainant. They met outside Sion hospital, and Guha also introduced the complainant to Dr Verma, who had collected his National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) score card and other necessary certificates, said the police.The complainant claimed that he then paid ₹18.50 lakh to Guha and Dubey but did not get an admission till November. The two accused also stopped taking his calls. The complainant then approached Sion police on February 4 this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sion-hospital-doctor-associate-arrested-in-second-cheating-case-101613672144078.html
18-02-2021||City||'UAPA can’t be invoked in gold smuggling case': Kerala HC||In a jolt to investigating agencies probing the high-profile Kerala gold smuggling case, the Kerala High Court on Thursday observed that the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) can’t be invoked in the case.The court said smuggling can’t come under the purview of the act unless there were enough evidence to show that it was done with the intent to threaten the economic security of the country.The HC bench of Justices Hari Prasad and MR Anitha also interpreted Section 15 (1) A of the UAPA and ruled that the act can’t be invoked in the smuggling case. The court said offence of smuggling will come under the provisions of the Customs Act and upheld the bail of 14 accused.Also read: ‘Won’t let Covid-19 get better of Mumbai’ - BMC updates norms to tackle pandemicEarlier, the NIA court in Kochi had granted bail to 14 accused in the case and it was challenged by the agency in the High Court citing UAPA provisions. But the HC upheld the lower court's verdict and observed that smuggling won’t come under the UAPA. Earlier, the NIA had claimed that the smuggling case had terror links and slapped the UAPA against the accused.Last month, the NIA had filed charge-sheet against 20 accused under the UAPA. Legal experts said since UAPA provisions were removed, now central agencies will have to deal with only smuggling and money-laundering offences.“On a reappraisal of the entire materials, we agree with the learned trial judge that materials produced before the court at that point of time are insufficient to hold prima facie that the accused persons have committed a terrorist act,” the court observed.The gold smuggling case surfaced last July after 30 kilograms of gold was seized from a consignment camouflaged as a diplomatic bag in the UAE consulate in the state capital. Later, many including CM’s principal secretary M Sivasankar, a senior IAS officer, were arrested for helping the accused. After three months in judicial custody, he was granted bail last month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/uapa-can-t-be-invoked-in-gold-smuggling-case-kerala-hc-101613670984003.html
18-02-2021||Mumbai||Poor infra poses a speed bump as Mumbai aims to become bicycle capital of India||In the aftermath of the global pandemic, city authorities and urban planners are promoting cycling, especially for last-mile connectivity. But given the narrow roads, uneven footpaths, crowding and humid weather, will it be possible for people to adapt to this sustainable mode of transport? Also, apart from the infrastructure, the biggest question is – Where is the space, given the encroachments and hawkers even on pavements that are in bad shape?The needIn February 2020, while inaugurating a public-bike sharing initiative at the Jagruti Nagar Metro station in Mumbai, metropolitan commissioner RA Rajeev said it was unfortunate that Metro-1 (Versova-Andheri-Ghatkopar) stations were not designed for multi-modal integration. Taking this as an example, he further said all upcoming 225 Metro stations in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) will have a dedicated 100-m space in the periphery to enable last-mile connectivity. First- and last-mile refer to the journey from the public transport system to your home/office. Even as the MMR targets a 337-km Metro network by 2026, a recent study by the World Resources Institute (WRI) said that most Metros in India have not been able to meet their projected ridership as it did not provide last-mile options to the commuters. For a city where 60% of the start and end of public transport journeys are walks, as per the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) Development Plan 2034, not much thought was given to enhance or make this journey more comfortable, say experts.Firoza Suresh, Mumbai’s first bicycle mayor, said, “Cycling is the best mode for last-mile connectivity, which is a huge problem in Mumbai. The main focus should be to convert trips between 0-3km into cycling trips. Currently, 22% of these short-distance trips are covered by motorised transport. The other area where authorities need to focus is cycles for the urban poor.” Two years ago, Suresh’s Smart Commute Foundation (SCF) provided a GPS device to an Andheri-based incense seller. To their surprise, they found that he covered 30km around the city by cycle for work. “We also found a dabbawala covered 12-15km on his cycle. They don’t cycle for recreation, but livelihood. They need to be provided with the right infrastructure and good cycles,” Suresh added. On right track?Last week, the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) revived its plan to install a cycle track in the Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC). According to the plan, around 5km in the commercial hub will have cycle tracks along the pavement, Rajeev said. Mumbai’s suburban guardian minister Aaditya Thackeray also tweeted in support. MMRDA had experimented with cycle tracks in BKC in 2011, but failed.Before the cycle track project, the authority launched an e-bike service in and around BKC. In the past five months, more than 78,000 trips were made on these e-bikes. MMRDA has also allocated funds for a 100-meter radius around every upcoming Metro station to have bus-bays, parking area, seating arrangement, and cycle docks.Apart from this public bike-sharing has also been introduced at four Metro-1 stations – Jagruti Nagar, Versova, DN Nagar, and Azad Nagar. Arjit Soni, founder of MyByk, which runs the services at Metro stations, said, “In a month, we have seen around 3,800 trips at four stations.” The highest number was recorded at Versova Metro station.In 2018, the BMC had also decided to lay out a 36-km cycle track between Mulund and Sion, along the Tansa pipeline. While the deadline for the ambitious project was 2020, it got delayed owing to the pandemic and less than 30% of the work has been completed till date. Rajeev said, “Mumbai has tremendous potential to get converted into a cycling capital of India. The MMRDA has initiated the process from BKC and Metro line one stations. The multi modal integration plan at each upcoming metro stations will facilitate non-motorised movement of people by giving priority to pedestrians and cyclists.”The hurdlesWhile a number of initiatives have been rolled out in the city, Mumbai still lacks dedicated cycling infrastructure, which makes it safer to cycle on roads. At a press conference held this month, Somnath Gharge, DCP, traffic, said in 2019, nine cyclists died on the spot and 38 were injured in fatal crashes on the road. “We need a shift in attitude,” Gharge said.Paresh Rawal, a transport planner based in Mumbai, said, “It is not safe to cycle in the city because there is no supporting infrastructure. Cycling can’t be an option if one has to travel from Andheri to South Mumbai, but is definitely an option for last-mile connectivity, if the right infrastructure is provided.”Soni, whose company offers commuters to take the cycle home or to their offices, agreed that the city’s weather is not conducive for long-distance travel. “This is where public bike-sharing initiatives help. If you want to travel from Borivli to Churchgate, MyByk allows you to travel to Borivli station on the bike and then pick up another bike from Churchgate station. Public bike-sharing, in a way, boosts public transportation,” said Soni, who founded the business after struggling to commute in Mumbai. “Mumbai can never have a seamless cycle network because of the narrow roads and footpaths. There is not enough space for even pedestrians. We agree, but there are solutions to these problems,” said Suresh. Her team of 24 bicycle councilors are now looking at creating a cycling network. “We are first looking at two wards – Bandra and Parel. The idea should be to have a mixed cycling infrastructure where some roads can have a dedicated lane, there can be shared mobility spaces on some roads and we could also have a lane along the median in some cases. The important thing is to study these patterns,” she added. However, there are also administrative challenges to be met. With multiple agencies operating in the city, obtaining permissions is complicated. “In Mumbai, the land may belong to the BMC, but the public transport is being built by another. We have been facing a lot of issues with obtaining permissions,” Soni said. Obtaining permissions from the traffic police also is a challenge. Suresh’s team, which has started a campaign ‘Cycle Chala, City Bacha’ (Ride a cycle, save the city), is also demanding a cycling network and cycle docks at 600 locations in the city. Their campaign aims to make Mumbai the bicycle capital of India by 2030.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/poor-infra-poses-a-speed-bump-as-mumbai-aims-to-become-bicycle-capital-of-india-101613670764082.html
18-02-2021||Mumbai||Ghatkopar man booked for murder of neighbour, assault of another||Pant Nagar police has booked a Ghatkopar resident after he killed a neighbour and assaulted another on Wednesday. The 35-year-old victim was trying to intervene in a fight between his neighbours. The accused fled from the spot.The incident took place when the victim, Shashikant alias Munna Nagendra, woke up owing to commotion outside his house and found that his neighbours — Ram Shiromani Yadav, 55, and Nanhe Yadav, 40 — were arguing at his doorstep. As he saw Nanhe trying to hit Ram Shiromani, Nagendra stepped outside and tried to stop them. Nanhe assaulted Ram Shiromani with a knife and when Nagendra tried to stop him, he slit Nagendra’s throat.Locals gathered at the spot and took the two injured men to a hospital and informed the police. “Shiromani was admitted at the hospital and Nagendra was declared dead on arrival,” said an officer from Pant Nagar police station.The police have booked Nanhe on the charges of murder, attempt to murder and assault under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and have launched a manhunt to arrest him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ghatkopar-man-booked-for-murder-of-neighbour-assault-of-another-101613670403862.html
18-02-2021||Noida||Tractors can again go to Delhi, if govt makes things difficult: Tikait||Ghaziabad: Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait on Thursday said that farmers and their tractors can again go to Delhi if things “get difficult”. He reiterated the farmers’ plans to hold a rally of 40 lakh tractors across the country, adding that this will be a hal kranti and farmers will proceed to Delhi with all equipment used for farming.Tikait has been regularly holding rallies in Haryana. At the rally held at Kharak Punia in Hisar, Haryana, on Thursday Tikait yet again restated the farmers’ demand that the government hold talks with them, which have ceased since January 22. “Our next target is 40 lakh tractors which we will gather from across the country. If they make it difficult for us, these are the same tractors and same farmers who will again go to Delhi. And this time it will be hal kranti and all sorts of equipment used for farming will be taken along,” Tikait told a gathering.Tikait has been spearheading the farmers’ protest at UP Gate. On Wednesday, he had said that farmers were ready to bear the loss of one crop but will not let the agitation die down.“The centre should not be under any misconception that farmers will go back to harvest their crops. If they insist, we will burn our crops. They shouldn’t think that the protest will end in two months. We’ll harvest as well as protest,” he reiterated during the Hisar rally on Thursday. He said that the government should talk to their panchs (committee of farmer unions’ leaders at Singhu border). “We will continue with rallies and panchayats in Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, West Bengal, Karnataka and other states. Is there any ban on us? We have been getting support of khaps. If the government makes things difficult then tractors can go to West Bengal as well,” he added. Tikait had mentioned plans to hold panchayats in poll-bound West Bengal during his rally at Garhi Sampla in Haryana on February 16 as well.Assembly elections are likely to be held in the state in the coming few months with political parties holding rallies to garner support. “You should support and be confident of the 40 people (referring to the committee of farmer unions’ leaders who held talks with the government). You must oil your equipment and fill sufficient fuel in tractors and keep them ready, pointed towards Delhi, once we give a call,” Tikait added. Farmers at the UP Gate have been camping there since November 28, 2020 demanding rollback of the three farm laws and a new law on minimum support price. Off late, the gathering has reduced at UP Gate and their leaders are now conducting panchayats and rallies. “The rallies are helping us keep the momentum of the gathering going. At present we have about 2,000-2,500 people who are at the site. Many are now making it look as if the decrease in numbers means the agitation is dying out. To tackle this, we have come up with a team which is now educating farmers about the use of social media platforms,” said Jagtar Singh Bajwa, farmer leader and member of UP Gate farmers’ committee. He said that once acquainted with social media, the farmers will tackle the criticism on their own by posting their videos and pictures and will spread awareness about the on-ground situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/tractors-can-again-go-to-delhi-if-govt-makes-things-difficult-tikait-101613670404305.html
18-02-2021||Noida||In Noida, farmers say they halted Bihar-bound train; cops, railways differ||Noida: In Gautam Budh Nagar, while farmers claimed they stopped a Bihar-bound train at the Dankaur railway station in Greater Noida on Thursday, as part of the rail roko call by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), the police and the railways, on the other hand, maintained that the train stopped due to technical reasons as the route ahead was blocked at some places. The Bihar Sampark Kranti Express stopped at 2:03pm and left Dankaur at 2:37pm, said railway officials.Sunil Pradhan, the Gautam Budh Nagar spokesperson of the Bharatiya Kisan Union’s (BKU) Tikait faction, said that farmers had already informed the police and the administration about the rail roko programme. “Around 200 farmers reached the Dankaur station around 12pm and made a sit-in protest outside the station. In the afternoon we stopped one train and garlanded the train’s driver. We distributed fruits, juice, banana, water bottles, etc., to passengers and informed them about farmers’ issues,” he said.Another farmer, Gajendra Nagar, a resident of Mahmoodpur village in Dankaur, said the protesters were disciplined. “Most farmers were outside the station. We had assigned only 20 persons to board the train and distribute food and eatables. We did not sit on the railway tracks or damage any property,” he said.He added that the farmers apologised to the passengers for the inconvenience due to the rail roko call. Pradhan said some passengers agreed with the farmers’ demands that the three farm laws should be repealed. The rail roko call remained peaceful and the farmers left the spot by 3pm.According to Sagar Baliyan, station master, Dankaur railway station, however, “The train was halted at Dankaur as the route ahead was not clear.” Noida police said they had deployed a number of personnel at the station to ensure law and order.Rajesh Kumar Singh, deputy commissioner of police, Greater Noida, concurred with the railways’ version: “Farmers in Greater Noida had not stopped the train. We received information that some farmers were sitting on the railway tracks in Khurja, Bulandshahr and the route was not clear. The trains following that route were stranded at different stations on the way. This Bihar-bound train had thus stopped at the Dankaur railway station by the time the farmers had reached there. They garlanded the train driver and distributed food and water to the passengers,” he said.Police said that the protest was peaceful, and no complaint was filed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/in-noida-farmers-say-they-halted-bihar-bound-train-cops-railways-differ-101613670343030.html
18-02-2021||Noida||‘Rail roko’ stir: Farmer groups miss the train in Ghaziabad||Ghaziabad: The four-hour rail roko call given by the farmer unions passed off peacefully in Ghaziabad and Hapur on Thursday. Officials of the Government Railway Police (GRP), Moradabad region, said that no trains were stopped in Ghaziabad, Hapur and other nearby districts by the farmer groups who occupied the tracks but found no trains for stopping. The GRP officials said that they had “regulated” some of the trains which were to pass between 12 noon and 4pm at different railway stations in Ghaziabad, Hapur, Amroha and Rampur, among others. “About 22 trains were scheduled to pass during the protest timing of 12 noon to 4pm and most of them passed successfully. GRP, in coordination with the railways, regulated three trains for a maximum of two hours. These were halted beforehand at different stations and they departed once the farmers vacated the tracks,” said Aparna Gupta, superintendent of police, GRP – Moradabad region. The officials said that of the three trains, the Dibrugarh-bound Rajdhani was held back at Simbhaoli railway station in Hapur district, Shramjeevi Express (Varanasi-bound) was halted at Hapur while Kalinga Utkal Express (Haridwar-bound) was stopped by the authorities at Ghaziabad junction. “These three trains were regulated by the authorities and no train was reported to be stopped by farmers. Their groups had occupied the tracks at some places, but they returned well before 4pm. Some protesters also arrived in Amroha and Rampur, but they did not occupy the tracks,” Gupta said. The chief public relation officer of the Northern Railways did not respond to calls. The farmer groups waited for about four hours on the tracks but found no train midway to stop. “We occupied the tracks at Modinagar in Ghaziabad and also at Garhmukteshwar in Hapur, but no train arrived. So, we finally put the garlands over the tracks and called off our agitation and returned to our protest site (at UP Gate). We also distributed sweets to railway officers and police, and the protest went off peacefully,” said Rajbir Singh, state vice-president of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU). Farmer leaders at the UP Gate admitted that the protesters could not get to stop any train in Ghaziabad and Hapur.“It was so because the railways held back trains and our supporters found no running trains on tracks. Otherwise, our groups went to each site and occupied the tracks,” said Jagtar Singh Bajwa, a farmer leader from Uttarakhand and a member of UP Gate farmers’ committee. The farmer leaders on Wednesday had said that as part of the rail roko stir, they would stop trains and offer water, sweets and fruits, among other items, to passengers and would also tell them issues concerning the three farm laws and their demand for a new law on minimum support price. This was the second major call given by farmer leaders after the chakka jam call given for February 6 for which the two states of UP and Uttarakhand were excluded. On Thursday, Northern Railway officials said that a festival express train moving towards Haridwar was held back at Meerut City while Ambala intercity was held back at Delhi as it was to pass during the protest period through Modinagar in Ghaziabad. “There was no stoppage of trains bound for Tundla and Aligarh and these trains departed on time from Ghaziabad junction. The Kalinga Utkal Express was held at Ghaziabad for a little over one hour. However, several goods trains were also held at Muradnagar, Partapur in Meerut and some were held back at the yard in Ghaziabad,” a Northern Railway official said while requesting anonymity. The officials said that due to regulation of trains, the rail traffic resumed normally after the protest call period and no untoward incident was reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/rail-roko-stir-farmer-groups-miss-the-train-in-ghaziabad-101613670282926.html
18-02-2021||Noida||Top officials get Covid vaccine jab in Gautam Budh Nagar||Noida: Top officials of the Gautam Budh Nagar district received Covid vaccine jab at the Government Institute of Medical Sciences in Greater Noida on Thursday. The officials said they were “perfectly fine” after the vaccination, and urged the people to get the vaccine doses.GB Nagar district magistrate Suhas LY, police commissioner Alok Singh, additional police commissioner Love Kumar, and Greater Noida authority chief executive officer (CEO) Narendra Bhooshan were among the ones who received the vaccine. They underwent a health checkup and took the jab around 10.30am on Thursday.The officials were kept under observation for 30 minutes following the vaccination, said GIMS director Brig (retired) Rakesh Gupta.District magistrate Suhas LY said all the frontline workers should get vaccinated as per their schedule. “I got the vaccine jab and I’m perfectly fine. There is some unverified information and rumours on social media about the vaccine. People should be assured that the vaccine is safe, and they must get it,” he said.“I’m feeling absolutely fine. 2021 will turn out to be a great divide between the pandemic and the new normal healthy life,” Alok Singh told HT.Narendra Bhooshan is a nodal officer and frontline worker to combat Covid-19 in Gautam Buddh Nagar. “I visited the hospital and got the vaccine jab. The doctors kept me under observation for 30 minutes. According to the doctor, some people have mild fever after the jab. But I don’t have a fever or any other symptom. I urge people to get vaccinated,” he said.Healthcare workers were vaccinated in the first phase, and frontline workers in the second, Common people will be vaccinated in the third phase. Bhooshan said the government will soon issue a detailed plan for the people’s vaccination drive. “This will be an intensive exercise and the district administration and health department will execute it. There will be camps like electoral booths where people can visit and get vaccinated,” he said. With four fresh cases of the novel coronavirus recorded on Wednesday, the total number of infections in Gautam Buddh Nagar now stands at 25,446. Total 91 people have died so far. While there are 46 active cases as of now, 25,309 persons have been cured and discharged in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/top-officials-get-covid-vaccine-jab-in-gautam-budh-nagar-101613670224721.html
18-02-2021||Mumbai||Dug-up roads not an excuse to park illegally: Mumbai sessions court||A dug-up road is not an excuse for people to park their vehicles on roads, observed a sessions court while granting anticipatory bail to an advocate booked for obstructing traffic police from doing their duty.The court was hearing an anticipatory bail plea filed by advocate Saurabh Nagarsheth, who was booked for manhandling and obstructing traffic police officers. Traffic police had conducted a drive against illegal parking on roads at Marine Drive on February 4. During the drive, when they reached Panchsir Building on F Road, they took action against 15 vehicles parked illegally.While the cops were trying to tow away his vehicle, Nagarseth confronted the policemen and allegedly manhandled a police officer. A case was later registered against him at the Marine Drive police station.Nagarseth, in his defence, argued that the entire adjacent road to his building was dug up by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) and residents were forced to park their vehicles on the road. Nagarseth also claimed that at the time of the incident, he was trying to help one of his neighbours to unclamp his vehicle as the former had a medical emergency. He claimed that it was during that time that he got into a heated argument with the officers.Considering his defence, the court granted him anticipatory bail but observed: “The traffic condition in Mumbai city is precarious and day-to-day an increasing number of motor vehicles are coming on the road. In addition, when work of digging – for electric line, water line, drainage line, etc – the traffic woes are worsened. But that does not mean that residents or the public, in general, should park their vehicles in no-parking zones and/or disobey the traffic rules. Every citizen must obey the rules and cooperate with the authorities to smoothen the functioning of the city.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/dugup-roads-not-an-excuse-to-park-illegally-mumbai-sessions-court-101613670224204.html
18-02-2021||Mumbai||E-bike services now available outside Mumbai’s Kurla railway station||Central Railway (CR) along with mobile application-based electric bike-sharing platform Yulu on Thursday introduced e-bike services outside Kurla railway station. The bike service has been introduced to improve connectivity between Kurla and Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC).The 30-minute e-bike journey from Kurla railway station to BKC will cost ₹25. “Kurla is one of the most crowded stations, especially after the development of the BKC area. The launch of Yulu’s public bike-sharing (PBS) initiative in partnership with CR at Kurla station, is another step towards providing a safe, affordable, and eco-friendly commute option to Mumbaiites. As more businesses are set to reopen in BKC in the coming days, users can now rent sanitised Yulu Miracle vehicles from Kurla station,” said Amit Gupta, co-founder, Yulu & Green Entrepreneur. Commuters will have to download the Yulu mobile application and pay ₹5 to unlock an e-bike. They will be charged ₹1.5 per minute for the ride.After downloading the Yulu app, passengers can scan the quick response (QR) code or enter the vehicle number to unlock the bike.“The Mumbai division has awarded the tender to Yulu for the e-bike parking and charging facility for one year. The bikes will provide connectivity from Kurla (West) to BKC and nearby areas,” said Shivaji Sutar, chief public relations officer, CR. The e-bike services will also be available at Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT), Ghatkopar, Thane, Parel, Mulund and Bhandup railway stations.Further, in a bid to increase its non-fare revenue, CR has also introduced electric vehicle charging facilities at CSMT. Similar facilities will also be introduced outside other suburban railway stations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ebike-services-now-available-outside-mumbai-s-kurla-railway-station-101613670044334.html
18-02-2021||Noida||Only 38% turnout for Covid-19 vaccination in Ghaziabad||Ghaziabad’s Covid-19 vaccination coverage remained low at just 38.67% for frontline workers (FLWs) who got their first dose on Thursday, the 10th day of the drive.FLWs include police, paramilitary personnel and district officials. Overall, 41.51% of listed FLWs got their shot till date.“We wanted to vaccinated 7,168 people today, but only 2,772 turned up,” said district chief medical officer Dr N K Gupta. “We administered Serum Institute of India’s Covishield to 627, while 2,145 got Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin. Thirty-three centres and 67 health teams were involved in the immunisation drive today. We will once again approach departments to encourage their staff to vaccinate although it is purely voluntary.” The vaccination drive began on January 16. Health care workers (HCWs) were part of phase 1, while in phase 2 that began on February 5FLWs too joined in. The third phase, around mid-March, will see people about the age of 50 and those with comorbidities get the dose.The vaccination coverage for HCWs was 73.52%. Experts had earlier attributed the disparity in coverage to higher awareness among HCWs.On Friday, the health department will take up another round of vaccination which also include a second “mop up” round for about 5,700 HCWs who had missed their dose. The day will also see the 3,251 HCWs who got their first shot on January 22 get their second shot. “The vaccination on Friday will be taken up at 35 centres with the help of 53 teams. However, we are not expecting bigger turnout for the final mop up round as the previous mop up round registered only 19.13% coverage (1,405 of 7343 getting the shots),” Dr Gupta added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/only-38-turnout-for-covid-19-vaccination-in-ghaziabad-101613669802923.html
18-02-2021||Noida||Man kills wife, takes his own life in Noida||A 40-year-old man allegedly killed his 35-year-old wife in Noida before taking his own life on Wednesday. The couple lived in a rented accommodation under the Expressway police jurisdiction. Their 20-year-old son and wife lived in an adjacent apartment.The neighbours broke down the couple’s door when nobody answered it for a long time, according to the police.“The man was found hanging, while the woman’s body was on the floor. It seems that the man first killed his wife and then killed himself. There are strangulation marks around the woman’s neck,” said additional deputy commissioner of police (zone 1) Kumar Ranvijay Singh.Police said the couple was not on talking terms with their son over some dispute. “The bodies will be handed over to the family following the autopsy. So far, no complaint has been filed in the matter,” Singh added.There is no dedicated helpline in Gautam Buddh Nagar to deal with such situations. A few major suicide prevention helpline numbers in India are +914424640050 — Delhi-based ‘Sneha India Foundation’, and +914066202000 — Hyderabad-based ‘Roshni’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/man-kills-wife-takes-his-own-life-in-noida-101613669742946.html
18-02-2021||Noida||Work on link road to Jewar airport to begin soon||The Yamuna expressway industrial development authority (Yeida) on Thursday said it hired a contractor to link the expressway with the Jewar airport. The project will involve constructing a loop on the expressway and laying a new 760-metre-long road.“The contractor will finish the project in seven months. This project is crucial because it will ease commuting,” said Arun Vir Singh chief executive officer of Yeida.The authority sanctioned Rs74 crore for the project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/work-on-link-road-to-jewar-airport-to-begin-soon-101613669682932.html
18-02-2021||Noida||Yeida to launch residential, industrial plot scheme on February 20||GREATER NOIDA: The Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (Yeida) on Thursday said it will launch a residential and industrial plot scheme on February 20.Under the scheme, residential plots will be available in sectors 18, 20 and 22D, among other areas. Industrial plots will be offered in sectors 29, 32 and others. “We will allot these residential and industrial plots via a lucky draw after applicants submit their forms within the stipulated time frame. The lucky draw will be carried out in March-end,” said Arun Vir Singh, chief executive officer of the Yeida.Officials said the scheme is intended for those looking for small plots in the two categories.Residential plots will be available in sizes of 60 square metres (sqm), 90 sqm, 300 sqm and a few plots of 4,000 sqm. The industrial plots to be offered will be 450 sqm, 800 sqm, 1,200 sqm, 3,000 sqm and 4,000 sqm, said officials.“The maximum size of the industrial plots will be 4,000 sqm. We have offered mostly small-sized plots in the industrial scheme – of 450 or 800 sqm – as investors had asked for these. Similarly, we are catering to residents who want to purchase 60, 90, 120 and 150 sqm-sized plots around the Jewar airport site,” said Singh.The Noida International Airport is scheduled to come up in Jewar along the 165-km Yamuna Expressway. The authority has been encouraging development around the site, with residential, commercial and industrial schemes being planned near the airport site.The number of plots to be offered will be 1,000 for the residential scheme and 1,000 under the industrial scheme. Details such as how many plots will be available for which plot size will be provided in a brochure to be released Saturday. The rate for industrial plots is ₹6,700 per sqm and for residential plots it is ₹16,400 per sqm.Tentatively, the last date to apply for the plots is March 25, 2021, said officials. After submission of forms and scrutiny, the authority will carry out the lucky draw under the supervision of a committee, said officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/yeida-to-launch-residential-industrial-plot-scheme-on-february-20-101613669562840.html
18-02-2021||Noida||Residents demand opening of Sector 101 metro station during peak hours||Noida: Days after the Noida Metro Rail Corporation (NMRC) started the ‘fast train’ service on its Aqua Line by skipping a few metro stations, a group of residents from sectors 78 and 79 on Thursday asked the corporation to open Sector 101 station during peak hours. The residents said that this is the nearest metro station, but now they have to walk more or get an auto to reach another metro station.Aimed at reducing travel time by nine minutes during peak hours, NMRC on February 8 started the fast train service on a trial basis. The service has been made available from terminal stations -- Sector 51 station in Noida and Depot station in Greater Noida -- from 8am to 11am, and 5pm to 8pm on weekdays. Out of the 21 stations on the Aqua Line, 10 stations, including Sector 101 station, have been skipped under the new system.Brajesh Sharma, a member of 7X society welfare team, said that earlier local residents found it easy to catch a metro train from Sector 101 station. “But NMRC suddenly launched the fast Metro service whereby skipping 10 stations, including Sector 101,” he said. The residents said that they have written to the NMRC managing director to look into the issue.Sangeeta Lohani, a resident of Antriksh Golf View 1, a high-rise in Sector 78, said that she had shifted to Noida home five years ago. “The Sector 101 metro station is about 200 metres away from my home. There was much fanfare during the development of this housing project that the metro station will be in the neighbourhood. Now, the station is closed. What is the point of the station?” she said.OP Sagar, another resident of Sector 78, said that he travels to Mandi House in Delhi every day. “Earlier, it was easy to get the metro at Sector 101 station. Now, I face problems in hiring an auto to reach Sector 52 metro station and then go to Delhi,” he said.Sandhya Sharma, deputy general manager, NMRC, said that the fast train service was launched on a trial basis. “Earlier, NMRC had received feedbacks from people demanding fast metro. We launched this service and are reviewing the feedback. If there is genuine demands from certain sectors, we will review them and make suitable changes to facilitate people’s commuting,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/residents-demand-opening-of-sector-101-metro-station-during-peak-hours-101613669502909.html
18-02-2021||Noida||Noida struggles for clean air as wind speed drops||Noida and neighbouring Ghaziabad and Greater Noida suffered “very poor” air for 11th straight day on Thursday, according to the central pollution control board’s (CPCB’s) air quality index (AQI).According to the data, Noida had suffered 14 days of very poor air, one day of severe air till date this February, as against only six days of very poor and no severe day in the same period last year. There has been only one day of satisfactory air this month.Analysts at the India Meteorological Department (IMD) say that the air is likely to remain very poor for the next few days due to slow wind.“The city’s air quality is likely to see only a slight improvement during the afternoons when the wind speed is at its peak. Overall, though, wind speed is very low. On Thursday, the maximum wind speed was 10 kmph, that too for only a few hours. The rest of the time it was almost calm. Due to this the particle pollutants don’t disperse leading to pollution,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, IMD.Experts say that consistent wind of at least 8kmph is required to ventilate the region. They, however, added that there was more to the air pollution this year than just the meteorological factors.“Other cities too have suffered more highly polluted days this year. People talk of meteorology as the sole reason, but last year the Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority (Epca) was active and monitored the ground situation and the graded response action plan (Grap) was effectively implemented. In the absence of a larger powerful monitoring agency, measures like ensuring curbs on construction activities seem not to be that effective,” said Shambhavi Shukla, program officer, air pollution, centre for science and environment (CSE).The Supreme Court-appointed Epca was replaced last year with the central government-appointed Commission for Air Quality Management. According to the AQI, on a scale of 0 to 500, Noida recorded was 315 against 322 a day earlier, Greater Noida was 336 against 337 and Ghaziabad was 325 against 328.The AQI between 101 to 200 is considered ‘moderate’, between 201 and 300 is ‘poor’, between 301 and 400 is considered ‘very poor’ and above 400 is considered ‘severe’.According to the System of air quality and weather forecasting and research (SAFAR), the air quality is likely to improve from February 20.“Surface winds are low and forecasted to improve and change in direction to easterly. Better ventilation is likely to influence AQI positively. AQI is likely to stay in the lower end of Very Poor for the next two days. AQI is likely to further improve on 20th Feb,” said the SAFAR statement on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-struggles-for-clean-air-as-wind-speed-drops-101613669442896.html
18-02-2021||Bangalore||IT dept unearths 'cash for medical seat' scam worth 400 cr in Karnataka||The Income Tax (I-T) department on Thursday said that search and seizure operations conducted in nine major trusts in Karnataka have revealed evidence of cash-for-seat malpractice. The search and seizure operations were conducted in trusts registered in Bengaluru and Mangaluru, running educational institutions including medical colleges.“The search was conducted at 56 different locations across Karnataka and Kerala. During the search and seizure operation, it was found that the transparent selection process for medical colleges through NEET has been subverted by the trustees and key persons running these medical colleges in collusion with agents/brokers and some students who got high ranks in NEET examination,” read the I-T department statement.Modus operandiAccording to the I-T department, the first stage of malpractice for these medical colleges is to get students who have scored high ranks in NEET examination to take admission for MBBS and other courses in their institutions. However, these students have no intention of joining these institutions since they are expected to get admissions at better medical colleges.This arrangement ensures that during the Karnataka Examinations Authority (KEA) counselling process, these seats remain occupied. Subsequently, these students withdraw from the admission process, making the vacant seats available for the college management. These regular seats then get converted into management seats.Also read: BMC issues updated Covid-19 norms as pandemic rises again in MumbaiThese seats are then made available during the “stray vacancies round”, which is the filling of remaining vacant seats after the initial round of admissions. In this round, the seats are filled by the college management by admitting candidates who have scored low ranks in NEET. For this, the college collects a huge sum as capitation fees or donations.The I-T department said that such a collection of fees is illegal under the Karnataka Educational Institutions (Prohibition of Capitation Fee) Act, 1984. “Also, there is evidence indicating that one of the medical colleges has some sort of a “package arrangement” for passing management quota students in written examination and viva voce for a fixed sum ranging from ₹1 lakh to ₹2 lakhs,” the I-T department said.Evidence seizedThe evidence gathered by the I-T department indicates that ₹402.78 crore has been accepted as illegal capitation fees by manipulating the online admission process and the same has not been disclosed to the Income Tax Department.The search has resulted in the seizure of cash amounting to ₹15.09 crore, gold jewellery worth ₹30 crore, 50-carat diamonds and 40 kilograms of silver articles from the residential premises of the trustees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/it-dept-unearths-cash-for-medical-seat-scam-worth-400-cr-in-karnataka-101613666464050.html
18-02-2021||Pune||Kunala Kunache Mael Nahi: theatre students self-fund play in “tough” Covid times||Students who have just graduated from the Lalit Kala Kendra of the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU), are in a last-minute frenzy. They are rehearing their first commercial play after lockdown, “Kunala Kunache Mael Nahi”, a Marathi production, two hours and 20 minutes long. The students have called their theatre company “Not Fit” entertainers and chosen this play by playwright Venkatesh Madgulkar. “This play has an important place in theatre,” said Bhushan Bhingarkar, one of the actors, “Maharashtra’s beloved actor Nilu Phule acted in this play in the ’60s and it was performed all over Maharashtra by the Rashtra Seva Dal.” The students had performed this play during their last year of academics at the Lalit Kala Kendra. “We chose this play because we had a great response from the audience. This play is the folk art of Maharashtra. It is full of comedy and entertainment. Also, it is a musical,” said Unmesh Dhore, a student and an actor in the play. 2020-21 has been tough year for the young graduates and work has been almost zero. Hence, they decided to perform this production outside the university, commercially. Putting in their own money and with help from head of department at the Lalit Kala Kendra, Pravin Bhole, the play is directed by Ajit Sable, assistant professor, Fine Arts Centre. Kunala Kunache Mael Nahi – show dates and timings February19 Bharat Natya Mandir at 5 pm February 21 Ramkrishna More Hall, Chinchwad, 5 pm February 28 Rashtra Seva Dal, Pune, 5pm||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/kunala-kunache-mael-nahi-theatre-students-self-fund-play-in-tough-covid-times-101613667283385.html
18-02-2021||Other||Pune’s weekend fix: What’s happening and where... February 19 to 23||The Acquired Vibe presents Pune’s small-biz flea marketThe small-biz flea market connects customers with the best of goods on offer, mostly pret-a-porter across a range of items and sections. Business and bar open 2pm onwardsWhen: Feb 20Where: Orgee Café and Bar, Kalyani nagarVasantostavThe Dr Vasantrao Deshpande Pratishthan organised “Vasantotsav”, is one of the premier music events in the cityVasantotsav will take place at Ganesh Kala Krida Manch from 4pm to 10pm on all 3 daysWhen: February 19-21Where: Ganesh Kala Krida Manch, 4 pm to 10 pmPunjabi pop-upA Punjabi punch before lunch: the pop-up is happening on Sunday February 21, at Austin 40, Café. ₹499 per person, offering a full-course Call 9130298998 for bookingsWhen: February 21 Where: Austin 40 café, Bhandarkar Road, 11 am to 2 pm Fort Rajgad study tourEvery year, Yuva Maharashtra presents a new historical subject in the form of a play. This year the group has organised a study tour at Fort Rajgad on the occasion of Shiv Jayanti. It is 2-day study tour to understand the history and construction of the fort.Contact: Jayesh: 8600236397, Ashutosh: 7083813443.Chattrapati Shivaji Maharaj: Historical weapons’ exhibitionThe Asian College of Science and Commerce has organised an exhibition of rare weapons from the Shivaji Maharaj era.When: Saturday Feb 20 2021 at 11:00 am to 8:00 pmWhere: Asian College of Science and Commerce, DhayriTemghar Cyclo Camping & HikingRaw Adventure Solutions has organised an overnight 80km-long (Pune to Pune) countryside cycling trip to explore the incredible landscapes around Pune. Camp by a lakeside, enjoy the campfire with barbecue and delicious food and then go for a small hike to see a 180- degree view of the Temghar backwatersFor bookings call: 9881422575Where: Meet at Vishnuji Ki Rasoi, DP road ,Near Siddhi Garden, Mhatre BridgeWhen: February 20-21Goshta Manthan: Workshop for parents, teachers and caregiversA two-day workshop on how to introduce your children to literature and aid them in cultivating the habit of reading. The workshop will entail discussions on the role that a book plays in the development (cognitive, social, intellectual, and ethical) of a child, how to select the right books, understanding a book (physical form in detail and how it triggers various stimuli in the mind/brain of a child), and how to actually make a book for a child. The workshop is conducted by Wasimbarry Maner and Tahirnakkash Maner.When: Feb 20, 2021; 10:00 am to 5:00 pmWhere: Aadyaa, Karve road Wine tastingVaishnavi travel club and wine tourism offers a Deccan Plateau Vineyard wine tasting ₹1500* per personCall: 7769 095 095When: Saturday, February 20, 11 am to 6 pmWhere: Deccan Plateau Vineyards, Burkegaon, Haveli, Pune, 412207||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punes-weekend-fix-what-s-happening-and-where-february-19-to-23-101613667282787.html
18-02-2021||Pune||Rail Roko: Train services largely unaffected in Pune and parts of western Maharashtra||Pune and the rest of Maharashtra did not have an impact of the “Rail Roko” protest held by farmers’ outfits across the country. The farmers held a “Rail Roko” on Thursday to protest against the three farm laws enacted by the Centre. In Pune and the rest of the region, most trains operated smoothly despite Congress and the Shiv Sena holding a protest at the railway station. From Congress, city unit president Ramesh Bagwe led the protest while Sena workers were also present at platform number one of Pune railway station. Elsewhere in Marathwada, members of a farmers’ union staged a Rail Roko’ at Lasur railway station in Maharashtra’s Aurangabad district on Thursday to protest against the Centre’s farm laws. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of farmer unions, has been spearheading the protest at Delhi borders had announced this nationwide rail blockade to press for its demand to repeal the legislation. At least 12 persons were detained that the agitation staged by Lal Bawta Shet Majur Union at Lasur station, around 40 km from Aurangabad, an official said. “The Jalna-Mumbai Janshatabdi train was stopped at the station for around 30 minutes. We have detained around 12 agitators and further probe is underway,” the official from the railway police said. The agitation commenced at around 9am and farmers from 12 villages participated in the protest, president of the union Ram Bharti said. Similarly, the Akhil Bharatiya Kisan Sabha (AIKS) staged a protest outside Aurangabad railway station. (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/rail-roko-train-services-largely-unaffected-in-pune-and-parts-of-western-maharashtra-101613667224259.html
18-02-2021||Pune||PMPML to convert old buses into goods vehicles, sanitising vans||The Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) has taken a decision to convert its old buses into goods vehicles, sanitising vans, and for mounting cranes. In the pilot project, PMPML will convert 15 buses into these different vehicles to check the feasibility of revenue generation. PMPML has floated tender for the conversion. At present, PMPML gets ₹1 lakh to ₹1.50 lakh when its old buses are scrapped. Presently, PMPML has a fleet of 2,194 of which 134 buses are not being used. During the Covid-19 period, PMPML already converted its old buses into sanitising vans. Before that, PMPML also converted buses into mobile toilets for women. Rajendra Jagtap, chief executive officer of PMPML said, “ We have decided to use old buses for commercial purposes such as goods carriers. The state transport department has started a commercial service to carry goods to different districts. We have decided to implement these ideas at the city level to generate revenue.” He further said, “Normally, PMPML auctions the old buses. This time, we are exploring new revenue sources. At present, we have 134 old scrap buses. We will use these buses for commercial purposes. So, we have issued a tender instead of auctioning the buses.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmpml-to-convert-old-buses-into-goods-vehicles-sanitising-vans-101613667223563.html
18-02-2021||Pune||ICCR teams up with SPPU to globalise traditional Indian knowledge||With an aim to disseminate traditional Indian knowledge across the world and to make present-day Indian citizens aware of their roots and culture, the Indian Council for Cultural Relations (ICCR) and the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) have come together to launch an ambitious initiative titled Universalization of Traditional Indian Knowledge System (UTIKS). An MoU to this effect was signed between the two organizations on Thursday during a ceremony held at the SPPU campus.Dr Vinay Sahasrabuddhe, president ICCR, said, “There are many platforms available around the world to discuss economic and strategic issues, but there are no platforms available for discussing culture. Considering this, we are undertaking the ‘UTIKS’ project with the Savitribai Phule Pune University, through which efforts will be made to enhance education and impart the right information over Indian traditional knowledge and dispel stereotypes and misconceptions.”ICCR’s mandate is to universalise the traditional Indian knowledge system which is of interest to the international community. It has entered into an agreement with SPPU through its e-Content Development and Learning Innovation Centre (e-CDLIC) to create structured e-content capsules. It will provide basic information for those within India and overseas about the subjects related to Indian art, culture, Indian epics, Indian wildlife, temple architecture, folk art and tradition, yoga, Indian cuisine and traditional dances of India among others.SPPU vice-chancellor Dr Nitin Karmalkar said, “We will make a special effort to understand Indian traditional knowledge in a contemporary way and not just by providing available information. The project will be important in preserving Indian culture as well as guiding the new generation.”The knowledge base of various departments of SPPU and the allied institutions shall be utilized for the development of UTIKS. The e-CDLIC at SPPU will utilize the best academic brains to create engaging content that would include presentation, video, quizzes, and reading material of about two hours in each capsule. The centre has the expertise of developing e-content using its state-of-the-art studio facility. It has so far created more than 1,300 video-based courses.The information of about 100 subjects from the categories mentioned above shall be made available under this UTIKS initiative through the capsules of e-content. In the beginning, it would be available in English and there are plans to make it available in German, French, Russian, Japanese, and Chinese at a later stage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/iccr-teams-up-with-sppu-to-globalise-traditional-indian-knowledge-101613667222936.html
18-02-2021||Pune||Samant’s visit forces SPPU to grant permission for roll ball after 10 years||After several students met the state technical and higher education minister Uday Samant regarding allowing the roll ball game officially in the sports syllabus, the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) gave a nod on Thursday. “For years we were fighting to get permission from the SPPU sports department to include the roll ball game officially in the sports syllabus. Despite repeated attempts, applications and follow-up it didn’t happen but today after meeting Samant sir and telling them the importance of this game like its invention in Pune and the international recognition, we got the permission letter from SPPU immediately,” said Gajanan Tharkude, Pune district president of roll ball federation. A team of roll ball players along with Dhurkude and Raju Dabhade, the inventor and founder of this game met Uday Samant during the programme. They explained to Samant the importance of this game and the inclusion in the syllabus. “They have given a chance to thousands of students who are playing this game on state, national and international level. From 2011, we were trying to get a sanction from the SPPU sports department for this game, but nothing happened. We have a sanction from the state sports department, Central government and even from the Olympics game official department. But we only didn’t have permission from the SPPU sports department. Because of this many good players from this game were not getting a chance to play ahead at the state or national level just because of this permission issue. At the same time other universities in the state have given permission and are supporting this game fully,” said Dabhade. Dabhade was earlier working as a sports teacher at Balshikshan Mandir English School in Kothrud. While working as a sports teacher, he invented this game in 2003. It is a mix of speed skating, handball and basketball. Currently, this game is so popular and widely played across more than 50 countries in the world. Samant said, “We are so happy to resolve such long pending issues which have an impact on the career of thousands of students. At the same time, this game was invented in Pune but didn’t have permission to add to the sports syllabus of SPPU. This issue needed an immediate solution.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/samants-visit-forces-sppu-to-grant-permission-for-roll-ball-after-10-years-101613667164502.html
18-02-2021||Pune||Hail, wind, rain storm in Pune on Thursday evening||Pune reported hail in a few places, accompanied by thick cloud cover and the presence of a strong wind after 5pm on Thursday. The hail occurred at Kondhwa, NIBM, Wanowrie and Katraj, while in Aundh, Pimple Saudagar, and Camp, rain along with the strong winds was reported As per IMD, Shivajinagar and Lohegaon both reported trace rainfall (very light) until 8:30pm on Thursday.“Currently there is presence of cumulonimbus clouds over Shivajinagar, Pashan and Lohegaon (all three weather observatories) due to which hail occurred in few places, but now chances of hail is less as the cloud has weakened,” said Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather IMD, Pune. The minimum temperature recorded on Thursday was 16.3 degrees Celsius, while the maximum temperature was 31.3 degrees Celsius. “As of midnight, a hail storm can also occur in Central Maharashtra and Vidarbha. Light rain can occur in a few parts of Maharashtra,” added Kashyapi. Light rain is forecast in Nashik, Dhule, Solapur, Nandurbar, Palghar, Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg on Friday. “The sky is expected to be clear over Pune from February 20,” added Kashyapi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/hail-wind-rain-storm-in-pune-on-thursday-evening-101613667163819.html
18-02-2021||Pune||Samant holds public meet at SPPU, 750 issues resolved in a day||In an effort to reach out to common people, students, teachers, and others related to the education department, the state technical and higher education minister Uday Samant held a public meeting today in Pune at Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) campus. In the day-long meeting, a total of 920 applications had come from Pune, Nashik, and Ahmednagar districts of which 750 of them were resolved or were given a positive response from Samant and his team in ministry. “Today’s program was carried out fruitfully, all our senior officials from the technical and higher education department were present to address issues came from people. Various important issues were resolved which were pending for years like three persons were given a permanent job order on the compassion ground. While the medical bills of 24 people were issued today during the program and several other issues were positively addressed in this program,” said Samant while interacting with media after the program. Until now, a total of 4,411 applications had come from across Maharashtra for this public meeting program to the ministry. On 4,053 applications, a positive response has been given to resolve it. Earlier, first, such a public meeting program was held at Kolhapur last month. “Another important decision taken today was to build a memorial of Savitribai Phule inside the university campus. We had a detailed discussion with the SPPU officials, they will soon send an official application for the construction of this memorial and accordingly, funds will be provided to them,” said Samant. Talking about the next semester’s exams, the increasing number of Covid cases in the state, and its impact on the opening of colleges, he said, “This time for conducting the examinations, we have given an option to students themselves. If any student wants to give the offline exam or another wants to give in an online mode both the options will be given only for this year. We are keeping a close watch on the Covid cases in the state and on other colleges that have also started opening up. As the chief minister has appealed to every one of us, we need to strictly follow the safety guidelines and do not give a chance to spread the infection again.” BOX An SPPU centre will now be started at Doha, Qatar, the permission for this centre was pending for last one year. Finally, in today’s meeting with the SPPU officials, minister Uday Samant discussed this issue and permission letter was given today. “In today’s meeting with the SPPU vice-chancellor and other officials, this pending issue of getting permission from the ministry was discussed at length. I have instructed our ministry officials to immediately give the permission today itself and soon the sub-centre of SPPU will start at Doha, Qatar.” said Samant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/samant-holds-public-meet-at-sppu-750-issues-resolved-in-a-day-101613667163300.html
18-02-2021||Pune||Students demand Shivbhojan thali, online payment facility||Many organisations raised several issues during the public meeting program held by the state technical and higher education minister Uday Samant at the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) on Thursday. Amongst them were student groups and organisations that had come with student-related problems which need to be addressed. Kuldeep Ambekar, president of Students Helping Hand organisation said, “There are many issues and problems which students are facing today post the Covid-19 pandemic. We are continuously taking them up with SPPU and other concerned government authorities. But today in our application given to the minister we demanded to immediately refund back the deposit money taken from the students at the time of admission. This deposit money is from ₹500 to ₹10,000, and colleges do not refund it to students when they leave the colleges. Lakhs of rupees of students are pending with colleges and today in our application we demanded to take action on such colleges.” Sharmila Yewale, a student representative said, “Now as colleges and university have opened up for students, one of the major issues which students will face is of daily meals. Especially, for students coming from rural and economically backward families. So, we requested Samant sir to extend the Shivbhojan thali scheme facility inside the university and college campuses. On which he has positively responded to us and told that he will talk with the concerned minister on it.” Sagar Alkunte, a student and president of Garware College Yuva Sena branch said, “Now, the next semester examinations will be held and for the purpose, the filling up of the online form application is underway. But for the payment of exam fees, only the offline option is given, means students need to come to the college campus to pay the fees. This system needs to be immediately changed as just to pay a nominal fee a student has to come from his village or hometown which is far away from Pune. Students need to be given an option of online payment for the examination fees.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/students-demand-shivbhojan-thali-online-payment-facility-101613667162740.html
18-02-2021||Pune||Knife attack inside ATM over rivalry in Pune||PUNE: A rivalry between two rival local groups in Hadapsar led to an attempted murder of one and vandalism of an ATM kiosk in Bhekrainagar. The injured was identified as Rohit Ingale (20) of Phursungi. The accused were identified and the police are on a lookout for eight people in the case. “These are local groups who have rivalry among them. The complainant and the suspects have previous cases against them. They had been in another fight four months ago. We are looking for the eight men,” said assistant police inspector Ratnadeep Gaikwad of Hadapsar station who is investigating the case. Ingale was in the ATM to withdraw cash and buy a new mobile phone, according to the complaint. Two of his friends were standing outside the ATM, the complainant told the police. However, the eight men entered the ATM and attacked him sickles and vandalised the ATM. They allegedly dragged him out of ATM and attacked him in order to create fear among onlookers, according to the police A case under Sections 307 (attempted murder), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 506 (criminal intimdiation), rioting of Indian Penal Code; Section 37(1)with135 of Maharashtra POlice Act; Sections 3 and 7 of Criminal Law Amendment Act; and Section 3 of Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act was registered at Hadapsar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/knife-attack-inside-atm-over-rivalry-in-pune-101613666562759.html
18-02-2021||Lucknow||UP teacher who killed her family may be India's 1st woman to be hanged in 70 yrs||The Mathura district jail in western Uttar Pradesh is preparing for the possibility that Shabnam, a woman convicted of murdering her family in 2008, maybe ordered to be hanged soon, a senior jail official Akhilesh Kumar said. If the death sentence is carried out as expected by jail officials, Shabnam could be the first woman convict to be hanged after Independence.Preparations are on at the district jail in Mathura for the probable hanging of Shabnam, said Akhilesh Kumar, Agra’s deputy inspector general (Jail).Shabnam and her lover Salim were sentenced to death for sedating seven members of her family and slitting their throat on the night of 14 April 2008. Among the dead was a 10-month-old child. He was strangled.The caseShabnam’s family were against her relationship with Salim due to the difference in their social and economic status. Shabnam was a school teacher, Salim a class 6 dropout.Shabnam, then 24, and Salim were arrested within days of the murders. The couple was sentenced to death by the trial court in 2010; the death sentence was upheld by the Supreme Court in 2015. Their mercy plea was also rejected by Rashtrapati Bhavan. In January 2020, the Supreme Court also turned down their review petitions, underscoring that Saleem had “meticulously executed the killing after Shabnam administered sleeping pills in tea”.“The devilry was with the desire to see that no legal heir except Shabnam remains alive. They wanted to grab the property of Shabnam’s parents who were against their marriage,” a bench comprising Chief Justice of India SA Bobde and justices S Abdul Nazeer and Sanjiv Khanna ruled.DIG Akhilesh Kumar did not indicate a timeline for execution at Mathura jail but said it could be Shabnam from Amroha district of Uttar Pradesh.“The gallows in Mathura jail is for hanging women convicts but they were in a poor condition as no woman has been hanged in free India. Thus, it was thought proper to get it renovated and the maintenance work is on,” said the officer.Death PenaltyIndependent India has sent more than 750 men to the gallows; only 8 of them during the last two decades, according to data compiled by the research organisation Project 39A of National Law University, Delhi.Archives: An investigation into capital punishment in India Figures compiled by the group indicate there were nearly 404 death row convicts as of 31 December 2020. A 2016 survey had indicated there were only 12 women on the death row.Preparations at Mathura jailPawan Kumar, the executioner more commonly known as Pawan Jallad, said he had visited Mathura jail about a year ago and had pointed out the extensive repairs that the gallows needed.“The wooden platform (takht) was not in proper condition. There were other shortcomings, which I pointed out to the jail authorities in Mathura who have placed an order for fresh rope from Buxar jail in Bihar,” he said.People familiar with the development said two ropes, each 24 feet long, had been ordered for the noose.Shailendra Maitrey, senior superintendent of the district jail, confirmed that an order was placed for the rope but repeatedly called the preparations at the jail as “routine maintenance”.“Mathura jail has arrangements for hanging women convicts, but the place required maintenance. Thus, the required steps are being taken and the rope is to be brought from Buxar jail in Bihar,” said Maitrey.“The maintenance of the cell for hanging women convicts is a routine exercise. I have received no communication that Shabnam or any other woman convict is to be hanged here in Mathura,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-teacher-who-killed-her-family-may-be-india-s-1st-woman-to-be-hanged-in-70-yrs-101613664666713.html
18-02-2021||Mumbai||Buildings to be sealed, marshals in trains: BMC's new Covid-19 norms for Mumbai||With Mumbai in the middle of a 'second wave' of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Thursday issued updated guidelines to control the situation the city."Updated guidelines issued by Municipal Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal to ensure that we don't let Covid-19 get the better of Mumbai," the city's civic body posted on its official Twitter handle, using hashtags 'NaToCorona' and 'MissionZero.'Also Watch | Covid update: New curbs in Mumbai; SA variant & antibodies; Yavatmal lockdownUpdated guidelines issued by Municipal Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal to ensure that we don’t let #COVID19 get the better of Mumbai.#NaToCorona#MissionZero pic.twitter.com/Aq3xAdzdafAccording to the new guidelines, any residential building with more than five active Covid-19 cases will be sealed, while citizens flouting rules of home isolation, weddings and public gatherings will face prosecution. The guidelines further mandate that travellers coming to Mumbai from Brazil will need to compulsorily undergo seven days of institutional quarantine, while hands of those directed to undergo home quarantine will be stamped.At least one case of the Brazil strain of the SARS-CoV-2 virus has been detected thus far in India.The updated guidelines also say that 300 marshals will be appointed to act against those not wearing masks in trains, the resumption of full services of which on February 1, many say, has led to the 'revival' of the pandemic in Mumbai. Also, to keep a check on passengers not wearing masks, the number of marshals will be doubled from 2,400 to 4,800.Further, police personnel have been authorised to fine citizens not wearing masks and regular checks will be conducted at halls, wedding venues etc. to ensure full compliance of norms. Violation of any rule, guidelines say, will lead to action against the organisers, as well as the concerned management officials.The Covid-19 situation in Mumbai, as well as in Maharashtra, has seen a resurgence in recent days, leading to speculations that another lockdown could be imposed in the city. The state capital registered 736 new infections and four related deaths on Thursday, taking the infection tally to 316,487 and death toll to 11,432.The western state, meanwhile, registered 5,427 fresh cases and 38 related deaths on the day, taking the respective tallies to 2,081,520 and 51,669. This is the third time in the last five days that there have been more than 4,000 new daily cases; 4,092 and 4,787 infections were registered on February 14 and 17 respectively. Maharashtra's latest spike is its highest thus far this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-issues-updated-covid-19-norms-as-pandemic-rises-again-in-mumbai-101613664614063.html
18-02-2021||Pune||As Covid cases surge in Pune, PMC and police begin crackdown on mask violators||Pune: As the city is seeing a gradual increase in Covid positive cases, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and Pune police have taken action against 4,682 people for not wearing masks in seven days between February 10 and February 18. PMC has fined 184 in seven days and collected ₹92,500 fine while police have collected a fine of ₹21,39,800 from 4,498 violators. Activists say that the civic administration should include extensive sensitisation in its strategies to get the residents wear masks. From May 2020 till February 17, 2021, PMC has fined 6,778 people for not wearing masks and collected a fine of ₹33,85,100. Pune police have taken action against 4,498 people in the last seven days. “PMC and police have the rights to take action against those not wearing masks in public. We have given receipt slips to the police. Half of the fine collected will be deposited with PMC and rest with the police. We have intensified the action against mask offenders in the last two days,” said Kunal Khemnar, additional municipal commissioner, PMC. In the total tally of coronavirus positive cases in the district, PMC area has maximum cases, according to the state health department officials. Health experts have noted that the civic body needs to do a lot more to contain the virus spread. “PMC is behaving in a manner that it is the job of police authorities to take action against those not wearing masks. This approach is not correct. The cases have been rising. You may fine people for not wearing masks, but a mask should be provided to the offender and PMC must step up in this. The municipal corporation is resourceful, and people should be encouraged to wear mask rather than fear action for violation,” said Abhijit More, health activist and state co-convenor for NGO Jan Arogya Abhiyan. “Mask is an important tool to prevent coronavirus infection. After the meeting with the chief minister, I have instructed authorities to ensure strict compliance of the Covid-19 prevention SOPs (standard operating procedure). The action against those not wearing masks has been intensified,” Pune collector Rajesh Deshmukh had said earlier. Amitabh Gupta, commissioner of police, Pune, has instructed police stations to intensify drive against those who do not wear masks. Mask norm drive resumes in rural areas Pune: In the light of increasing coronavirus positive cases, the district administration has intensified action against those without masks in rural areas. As some restrictions were eased during the unlock process and the number of positives had reduced, the action against mask norm violation was halted in these areas. The administration has resumed the drive since February 16. “We have collected ₹2.5 crore fine for violating mask compulsion in rural areas till date. The drive was halted, but resumed since last two days,” said Abhinav Deshmukh, superintendent of police, Pune rural. On February 16, the Pune rural police took action on 327 persons for not wearing masks and collected ₹53,100 as fine. On February 17, 152 were fined and ₹16,300 was collected. “I have ordered every grampanchayat to be vigilant about compelling people to wear masks. It is true that the number of positive cases from rural areas has been increasing but these are located in specific pockets. For example, more cases have been reported from Shirur taluka, Hinjewadi from Maval taluka and in the villages on Ahmednagar road. We are alert,” said zilla parishad CEO Ayush Prasad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/as-covid-cases-surge-in-pune-pmc-and-police-begin-crackdown-on-mask-violators-101613665902683.html
18-02-2021||Other||Panchkula land scam: Court summons Hooda, 21 others||The special PMLA court, Panchkula, has summoned former Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Hooda and 21 others in the Panchkula land scam case. The next date of hearing is March 5.Two days ago, the enforcement directorate (ED) had filed a chargesheet against the 22 persons, including Hooda and three retired IAS officers.The case involves allotment of 14 industrial plots worth ₹30.34 crore to Hooda’s acquaintances in 2013. The ED had initiated investigation in 2015 after an FIR was lodged by the Haryana vigilance bureau.The FIR was subsequently transferred to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in 2016, which registered a case under Sections 120B (criminal conspiracy), 201 (disappearance of evidence), 204 (destruction of record to prevent its production as evidence), 409 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating), 467 ( forgery), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating) and 471 (to use a forged record or document as genuine) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and under the Prevention of Corruption Act.The investigation revealed that the chargesheeted parties had illegally benefitted from the pre-selected acquaintances of the then CM as they were allotted 14 industrial plots in lieu of worthier applicants.The three retired officers include Dharam Pal Singh Nagal (the then chief administrator, HUDA), Surjit Singh (the then administrator, HUDA), and Narinder Kumar Solanki (the then zonal administrator of HUDA’s Faridabad zone).Others involved are Subhash Chandra Kansal (the then chief controller of finance, HUDA) and Bharat Bhushan Taneja (the then superintendent, HUDA).The investigation revealed that the price fixed for subject allotment was kept four to five times below the circle rate and seven to eight times below the market rate.The agency added that the criteria for allotment was altered 18 days after the last date of application so as to favour the pre-selected applicants by increasing discretion at the hands of the interview committee. The ED said the interview process was “vitiated and compromised”. All 14 industrial plots were attached as per provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/panchkula-land-scam-court-summons-hooda-21-others-101613664223420.html
18-02-2021||Pune||Marne faces two more police cases in Pune for public rally||PUNE: Two more cases were registered in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad against gangster Gajanan Marne, who was recently acquitted in two cases of murder committed in 2014, for the rally conducted in February 15 to mark his release from Taloja jail after spending six years in prison. Of the two cases, one was registered at Hinjewadi police station in Pimpri-Chinchwad, and another at Warje Malwadi police station in Pune city. One case was also registered at Khalapur police station in Raigad district. In a case registered against him at Kothrud police station, four more people were arrested while Marne himself was released on bail along with eight others by a local court in Pune. The four arrested were identified as Shekhar Datta Adkar (33), Amol Vinayak Tapkir (31), Amit Suresh Kulkarni (38), all residents of Kothrud, and Sanjay Lakshman Pisal (54) of Koregaon in Satara. The eight arrested along with Marne earlier in the same case were identified as Pradeep Dattatray Kendre (36), Bapu Shrimant Bagal (34), Ananta Dnyanoba Kadam (37), Ganesh Namdev Hundare (39), Rupesh Krushnarao Marne (38), Sunil Namdev Bansode (40), Shrikant Sambhaji Pawar (34) and Sachin Appa Takawale (34). In the new case against Marne at Warje Malwadi police station, the same eight people were booked along with another accused identified as Santosh Shelar. Shelar was booked for pushing assistant police inspector BM Raikar on the day of the rally when the latter asked if they had police permission to hold such a public event. A case under Sections 353, 188, 268, 269, 143, 149 of Indian Penal Code along with Section 51(b) of National Disaster Management Act, Section 3 of Epidemic Diseases Act, Section 7 of Criminal Law Amendment Act; Section 37(1)(3)with135 of Maharashtra Police Act was registered at Warje Malwadi police station. The case at Hinjewadi police station was registered against Marne and 100-150 other people for blocking traffic, and verbally abusing people who were driving behind the former’s vehicles along the Pune-Mumbai expressway. Within three days of his release from Taloja jail after being acquitted in two murder cases, Marne is facing five cases for holding the rally.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/marne-faces-two-more-police-cases-in-pune-for-public-rally-101613664223908.html
18-02-2021||Other||‘Rail Roko’ call evokes good response in Haryana||The national call for ‘Rail Roko’ by the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha evoked good response in Haryana’s in Dadri, Bhiwani, Jind, Sonepat, Rohtak, Hisar , Fatehabad, Karnal, Ambala, Yamunanagar and other areas as farmers managed to block all major railway tracks in state.However, no incidents of violence were reported in any district as heavy police deployment was made to avoid any untoward incident.Railway officials said that no trains were cancelled or diverted from their original route but the affected trains halted at different railway stations were allowed to commence their journey after farmers lifted the blockade after 4pm.As per schedule, farmers gathered near protest spots at around 10am, blocked the railway tracks at 12pm and opened the blockade at 4pm. During the protests, farmers prepared langars and served food to commuters and protesters.The protesting farmers also burnt effigies of the Union government and raised slogans against the Prime Minister, Union agriculture minister and the Haryana chief minister.In Karnal, the protesting farmers gathered at Gharaunda railway station and blocked rail track. In Kurukshetra, the farmers stopped Gita Jayanti Express and staged protests at the Kurukshetra railway station. Later, the protesting farmers carried out a cleanliness drive.Farmer protests culminated peacefully at Ismaila village in Rohtak, Barsola in Jind, Bhiwani’s Bamla, Sui, Loharu, Siwani, Patuwas-Mehrana railway station in Dadri, Bhattu Kalan in Fatehabad, etc.Dayanand Punia, state secretary of the Akhil Bharatiya Kisan Sabha, said they had laid siege to railway tracks at four points in Bhiwani and one point in Dadri.Balkishan Soni, station house master at Dadri said one passenger train running between Rewari and Ganga Nagar (Rajasthan) and a goods train plying between Hisar and Rewari were cancelled due to the protest.Rohtak station house master Yashpal Meena said there are no major impacts due to protest.This was the third major call of Sanyukt Kisan Morcha which is leading protests against three controversial farm laws and a law to guarantee minimum support price, as earlier they had organised a tractor rally on Republic Day in Delhi, and ‘Chakka Jam’ on February 6.Protest in Ambala, YamunanagarScores of farmers, led by the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Charuni) and others, blocked rail tracks in Ambala and Yamunanagar to protest against the three contentious farm laws.In Ambala, a sit-in was observed on the tracks near Shahapur village along NH-44, where hundreds of farmers raised anti-government slogans. A woman protester, Lakshmi from Shahapur village, said, “I’m here to join my brothers and families of peasants against the black laws.”In Yamunanagar, the farmers laid siege at the railway station.District president of BKU (C), Sanju Gudiana, said, “This is just a warning. If the laws are not repealed, farmers will erect tents on rail tracks, indefinitely.”Three trains affected“Three trains had to be stopped at Ambala Cantt, Sirhind and Saharanpur railway stations due to the protest. Most trains have crossed into Ferozepur or Delhi division. No damage or untoward incident was reported and train operations started after 4:30pm,” railway officials said.At Ambala Cantt, many passengers were seen waiting for their trains or for clarity on when their train will move.Vinod Kumar, of Patna, who was travelling to Ludhiana for work in Shaheed Express (04673), said, “I was scheduled to reach by 2pm. But now, if I reach late, I’ll have to pay more for local transportation. I’ve no money left to buy something or board a bus instead.”Aditi, who was in Ambala to visit her relatives, said, “We need to board a train for Mumbai and are stuck here for hours.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rail-roko-call-evokes-good-response-in-haryana-101613663565945.html
18-02-2021||Pune||Two arrested for stealing, selling IT hardware worth ₹70 lakh in Pune||PUNE: The Pune police arrested two persons and recovered networking hardware worth ₹52.5 lakh that they had stolen from a private company in Kalyaninagar. The duo was identified as Ganesh Dhondiram Dolare (31), a resident of Narhe (Pune) and Kuldeep Ramkaran Chouhan (33) of Bandra East in Mumbai. The two had stolen the networking equipment and Wi-Fi installation related hardware worth ₹70 lakh from the Kalyaninagar based company. A complaint was lodged by the company’s staff identified as Makrand Madhukar Belulkar of Ambegaon-Budrukh area of Katraj. The man from Narhe was the first one to get arrested in the case. “Dolare confessed to have stolen Wi-Fi access point and access switch and sold it to the second accused in Mumbai,” read a statement from Yerawada police station officials. A case under Sections 380, 411, 34 of Indian Penal Code was registered at Yerawada police station on February 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/two-arrested-for-stealing-selling-it-hardware-worth-rs-70-lakh-in-pune-101613662242228.html
18-02-2021||City||Odisha opposition boycotts Guv's speech on AP holding polls in state's villages||A day before the contempt petition over Andhra Pradesh holding panchayat polls in three bordering villages of Koraput district in Odisha comes up in Supreme Court, opposition BJP and Congress walked out from the Assembly over Governor's speech having no mention of the border dispute.Soon after Governor Ganeshi Lal began his speech on the first day of the Budget session, BJP and Congress legislators staged a protest over the border dispute with Andhra Pradesh and deteriorating law and order situation in the state.Leader of Opposition (LoP) and BJP leader Pradipta Naik said it was a matter of great concern that Andhra Pradesh attacked the sovereignty of Odisha by forcibly conducting panchayat polls in Odisha."Nothing can be more serious than Andhra Pradesh opening schools, disbursing monthly pension to different categories of people, collecting electricity charges and land cess from the people of Odisha This is happening because of the inefficiency of Odisha government. On the other hand, the government is saying it is a healthy government. How can the state remain healthy when a part of it is being carved out,” Naik said, who on Wednesday had written a letter to chief minister Naveen Patnaik demanding setting up of a cluster development authority for Kotia group of villages.Also read: EAM Jaishankar to visit Maldives, Mauritius this week to review bilateral tiesLeader of Congress legislature party Narasingha Mishra said Andhra Pradesh conducting panchayat polls in Odisha has proved that the Naveen Patnaik government was an inefficient one. "Naveen Patnaik has been ruling the state for last 20 years and yet his administration had no clue about Andhra Pradesh encroaching into Odisha territory," he said.The boycott of opposition leaders of the Governor's address came a day before the SC is supposed to hear the contempt of court petition of Odisha government against Andhra Pradesh government over the latter holding panchayat polls in one of the villages of Kotia gram panchayat in Koraput district. On February 13, over 80 per cent of the 1,025 voters of Patusinri village under Kotia gram panchayat in Koraput district had voted for electing the sarpanch of Pattuchennuru gram panchayat of Andhra Pradesh.Officials, meanwhile, said the Andhra Pradesh government in its affidavit before the SC has said that there is no question of contempt by Andhra Pradesh as it is holding Lok Sabha, Assembly and panchayat polls in the three villages of Kotia - Talaganjeipadar, Phagunseneri and Patusinri."The AP government in its affidavit has said that in 2006 and 2013, panchayat elections were held in those three villages. The Andhra Pradesh government stated it has been duly administrating its own territories and has not infringed upon Odisha’s territory. The villages come under Araku Parliamentary Constituency and in Saluru Assembly Constituency in Andhra," said a state government official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/odisha-opposition-boycotts-guv-s-speech-on-ap-holding-polls-in-state-s-villages-101613661468946.html
18-02-2021||Mumbai||Over 5,000 new Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra; highest daily rise in 75 days||Maharashtra on Thursday registered 5,427 fresh cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), as per the daily bulletin by the health department, in what is the state’s highest daily rise in nearly 75 days. With this, the total confirmed Covid-19 cases in the western state now stand at 2,081,520. The death toll, meanwhile, reached 51,669 after 38 more people succumbed to the disease.The number of people who have recovered from the disease in the western state rose by 2,543 to 1,987,804. Total 15,521,198 samples have been tested for Covid-19 as of Thursday evening, out of which 65,930 people were tested in the last 24 hours.State capital Mumbai contributed 736 of Maharashtra’s new Covid-19 infections on Thursday, taking the city’s infection tally to 316,487. The death toll in Mumbai is at 11,432 with the addition of four fresh fatalities that took place on the day.Click here for complete Covid-19 coverageMaharashtra has been witnessing a steady rise in its Covid-19 cases over the last few days. On Wednesday, it reported 4,787 new cases, while on February 14 there were 4,092 new infections. Several senior officials, including chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, have warned of another lockdown if people don’t follow appropriate Covid-19 behaviour.Meanwhile, in view of the spurt in cases, Maharashtra chief secretary Sanjay Kumar has directed district collectors of Amaravti, Akola and Yavatmal to declare containment zones in areas with a high number of Covid-19 patients, news agency ANI reported. In Yavatmal, schools and colleges will stay closed till February 28 while restaurant and marriage halls can operate at a maximum capacity of only 50%, ANI quoted district collector MD Singh as saying.The district administrations are also fining people heavily for not following SMS (social distancing, masking and sanitising) protocol.Almost 80 to 90 per cent of new cases are being reported from Yavatmal, Pandharkawda and Pusad cities, news agency PTI had reported citing an official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/over-5-000-new-covid-19-cases-in-maharashtra-highest-daily-rise-in-70-days-101613661634004.html
18-02-2021||Pune||Pimpri-Nigdi Metro corridor gets green signal, Swargate-Katraj line awaits PMC’s okay||Pune: A day after the state government gave its nod for the Pimpri to Nigdi metro corridor, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) is yet to be given approval for the Swargate to Katraj Metro corridor. The proposal is currently lying with the PMC. PMC had decided to extend the metro corridor till Katraj and prepared a detailed project report (DPR) for it. The standing committee had given its ok for this proposal and decided on underground Metro corridor between Swargate and Katraj. Now the proposal is lying with the PMC’s general body. Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol said, “Due to Covid-19 pandemic, PMC is unable to organise general body meetings. It was on agenda for this month’s general body meeting, but it got adjourned.” Meanwhile, the Chinchwad to Nigdi Metro line is elevated and covers a distance of 4.41 Km. There will be three additional Metro stations on this line - Nigdi, Akurdi and Chinchwad. The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation had demanded the extension till Nigdi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pimprinigdi-metro-corridor-gets-green-signal-swargate-katraj-line-awaits-pmc-s-okay-101613661642162.html
18-02-2021||Other||NFAI acquires personal collection of actor-director Jaishankar Danve||PUNE A personal collection of actor-director Jaishankar Danve is now part of National Film Archive of India (NFAI). His family handed over the collection to Prakash Magdum, director, NFAI, at their home in Kolhapur.The collection consists of rare archival photographs and albums consisting of handbills, song booklets, newspaper clippings, articles, and old documents, various books, and also his handwritten plays.Interesting memorabilia of the collection is few wigs and a moustache from his 1933’s play “Hamlet.”The highlight of the collection remains handwritten literary work by Danve which comprises fourteen novels, eight plays and five stories.“We are delighted to receive this significant collection of an artist belonging to the early era of Indian cinema. It is significant that the Danve family preserved his memories all these years and I thank them for this noble gesture of donating the collection to NFAI,” said Magdum.A celebrated Marathi and Hindi artist, Danve was a film/stage actor and acclaimed theatre director. Born in Pune, Danve started as a stage artist in Marathi and Urdu theatre and then worked as an assistant director with Bhalji Pendharkar in Jayprabha Studios, Kolhapur in the 1930s.Danve worked in a significant number of films and plays during the illustrious career of more than five decades.Some of his memorable films are Baburao Painter’s iconic social drama Savkari Pash (1936 ), Bhalji Pendharkar’s celebrated features Sasurvas (1946), Meeth Bhakar (1949), Mohityanchi Manjula (1963) and Maratha Tituka Melavava (1964), and the main antagonist in Dada Konkde’s Andhala Marto Dola (1973).Interestingly, he made his film debut with Urdu film Asire Havis (1935), and played important parts in Hindi and Urdu cinema during the 30s and 40s in films like Sach Hai (1939), and shared the screen with legendary father-son duo Prithviraj Kapoor and Raj Kapoor in Valmiki (1946).As a director, he made films such as Jai Bhawani (1947), Phoolpakhru (1953) and Ishwari Nyay (1953).The major chunk of collection is a rare black and white photo frames and photographs from his films. There are 40 frames of 15*12 size showcasing different gestures from films and theatre, the album of 250 photos featuring clicks from his films and plays and 51 rare photos of other contemporary actors. In addition to this, there are three albums containing booklets, newspaper clippings, articles, rare handbills, old documents, and publicity material from the 1930s.“The collection takes us back to the golden era of Marathi films and theatre though the rare photographs, documents, various handbills and other literary work. I am sure this addition would be useful to film researchers. I urge the families of veteran film artists to take inspiration from Danve family and donate such material for preservation”, said Magdum.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nfai-acquires-personal-collection-of-actor-director-jaishankar-danve-101613661582448.html
18-02-2021||Pune||Pune district reports 831 Covid-19 positive cases and one death||Pune: Pune district reported 831 positive Covid-19 cases and one Covid-related death on Thursday, as per the state health department. This takes the progressive positive count to 397,402. Of these total cases, 381,358 have recovered, 8,067 have been declared dead and 7,977 are active cases. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), on Thursday, reported 467 fresh positives, taking its Covid-19 cases to 202,817 with one death in the last 24 hours. The PMC death toll stands at 4,558. PCMC reported 171 fresh positives taking its total Covid-19 cases to 99,148 with no deaths in the last 24 hours. The PCMC death toll stands at 1,321. Pune rural reported 193 fresh positives taking its total Covid-19 cases to 95,437 with no deaths in the last 24 hours. The Pune rural death toll stands at 2,140.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-831-covid-19-positive-cases-and-one-death-101613661282200.html
18-02-2021||Pune||Abandoned baby found on Katraj ghats by Bharati Vidyapeeth police||Pune: The Bharati Vidyapeeth police station officials, on Thursday morning, found a newborn abandoned on the Katraj ghat. The baby, who is two-days old, has been handed over to Sassoon hospital. A team comprising police sub-inspector Madhura Korane, constables Vijay Dudhale, Dnyaneshwar Shinde and Avadhur Jamadade, reached the spot after they received a call from cyclists who informed them that they heard cries of a baby on the ghat. PSI Korane said, “We went to the spot along with the other team members, searched and found the baby boy. The infant has been handed over to Sassoon hospital where his condition is stable.” A case has been lodged in connection with the incident. According to statistics provided by the Pune police, 14 newborns were found in 2017; six in 2018 and 15 in 2019. The police hand over all such children to the Society of Friends of Sassoon Hospitals (Sofosh), a voluntary charitable trust. Past casesJan 15, 2020 Twins — a boy and a girl — were found near Pashan lake by morning walkers who heard the cries of the infants wrapped in a blanket near the lake Oct 10, 2020 An engineer and his wife were arrested for allegedly abandoning their two-month-old boy in Khadki area. The baby, wrapped in a shawl, was spotted by residents near a church in Khadki.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/abandoned-baby-found-on-katraj-ghats-by-bharati-vidyapeeth-police-101613660862081.html
18-02-2021||Kolkata||Amit Shah promises to implement 7th pay commission if BJP forms govt in Bengal||Starting from implementing the 7th pay commission, which would benefit more than a million state government employees, to providing an annual subsidy of ₹6,000 to around four lakh fishermen, Union home minister Amit Shah on Thursday listed out a series of doles which he claimed the BJP would implement if it is voted to power in the coming elections in West Bengal.While on one hand, Shah showered poll promises ahead of the crucial assembly elections, on the other, he mounted an attack on the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) in the state alleging corruption.“I assure you that if you vote the BJP to power, we would implement the seventh pay commission for state government employees. The BJP government (after coming to power) will reserve more than 33 per cent government jobs for women,” he said at a rally organised to flag off the BJP’s fifth and last 'Poriborton Rath Yatra' from Namkhana in South 24 Parganas.Even though the BJP had made deep inroads in north Bengal and the Jangalmahal areas, winning 18 of the 42 seats in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, South 24 Parganas remained a TMC bastion.“We would initiate a series of programs for the development of the fishermen community. Around four lakh fishermen would annually get ₹6,000 each under a new scheme Machhuaara Samman Nidhi on the lines of the Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana. To ensure that fishermen get the right price for their produce, we would form an organisation for fishermen produce. A separate minister would be given charge,” he added while listing out the sops.He also said that while South 24 Parganas would be developed into a seafood hub, Ganga Sagar mela would be developed into an international tourist destination.Also read: After 11-month shutdown, Kashmir train services may be partially restoredShah on Thursday also visited the Kapil Muni Ashram at Ganga Sagar where millions of Hindu pilgrims congregate every year to take a holy dip at the confluence of the River Ganges and the Bay of Bengal during Makar Sankranti. He even had lunch with a refugee family.The Union home minister attacked TMC MP Abhishek Banerjee, who happens to be chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s nephew alleging that the Centre had sent money after Cyclone Amphan but TMC-backed goons had eaten away everything.“During the Congress regime, the Centre had sent ₹1.32 lakh crore to West Bengal. Narendra Modi government has sent ₹3.59 lakh crore. Where did the money go? Bhaipo (nephew) and his goons took all the money. When BJP government comes to power, a high-level probe would be done against all those who had taken the money and legal actions would be taken against all accused,” he added.He also attacked Mamata Banerjee and said that the TMC supremo gets angry and feels insulted whenever she hears the slogan 'Jai Shri Ram' while urging the crowd to chant the slogan so loudly that Mamata Banerjee could hear it while sitting in Kolkata.“In West Bengal, you need to take permission for Durga Puja. Saraswati Puja was stopped. It was only after the BJP mounted pressure that Didi was seen performing Saraswati Puja. I felt very good when I saw her allowing Sawarsati Puja. 'Jai Shri Ram' slogan is a symbol of protest against appeasement politics. It is also a symbol of the BJP’s Poriborton Yatra,” he added.TMC supremo and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, who was addressing a rally in the same district around the same time, hit out at the BJP-led Centre over price rise and disinvestment policies.“You never talk about price rise. You just talk about Didi and Bhatija (nephew). First fight the bhatija then you can fight didi. I challenge Shah to contest against bhatija. Hiding your corrupt son and pointing fingers at others won’t do. Your son is my bhatija. How did he become the BCCI secretary and amassed wealth?” said Banerjee.Banerjee also hit back saying that Shah was coming to Bengal regularly and telling lies.“First ask him (Shah) to chant the Saraswati Puja mantra. If I don’t allow Durga Puja then how did the clubs get the money to hold the puja? He doesn’t know the culture of Bengal,” Banerjee said while attacking Shah.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/amit-shah-promises-to-implement-7th-pay-commission-if-bjp-forms-govt-in-bengal-101613659765306.html
18-02-2021||Other||Technical glitches mar smooth FASTag operations on day 3||PUNE It has been three days since FASTAg has been made mandatory to pay tolls in Maharashtra. On day three, Thursday February 18, technical errors were reported by many vehicles on the roads. Famous Marathi poet Sandeep Khare, traveling towards Pune from Kolhapur, alleges that at the Kini toll plaza, he was asked to pay a fine - double the toll - even though he had money in his FASTag account.Khare posted a video from the Kini toll plaza and narrated his experience. “The scanner couldn’t read the sticker on my vehicle. Then I was asked to move the vehicle to and fro. Still the payment did not happen. Then they asked me to pay the double toll penalty. I refused, as I had fully recharged FASTag account. Then the worker came down with another machine and scanned closely. After this, the payment was done, but this procedure took more than 10 minutes,” said Khare. Hemant Takawale, who travelled from Kolhapur to Pune on Thursday, alleged, “Sometimes the scanner can’t read the sticker. Then cash has to be paid and after leaving the toll plaza a money deduction message is received. This is a common problem.” A Pune resident Sagar Gade experienced a different problem with his FASTag account. “My vehicle was parked at home in Pune and I could see my car. But I received the message of a toll deduction of Rs125 from a toll plaza situated in Uttar Pradesh. This has happened twice and I have officially filed a complaint about it,” said Gade. The toll manager of the Khed-Shivapur and Anewadi toll plazas, Amit Bhatia, said, “On Wednesday, the total FASTAg sale was more than 900. On Thursday, it was more than 600 till 7pm. People are now accepting that the change is being implemented. Traffic movement was smooth. FASTag traffic penetration has almost reached 70% at the Khed-Shivapur toll plaza.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/technical-glitches-mar-smooth-fastag-operations-on-day-3-101613659841957.html
18-02-2021||Kolkata||‘Aim was to kill him’: Mamata condemns attack on ‘popular’ leader Jakir||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday said the bomb attack on state labour minister Jakir Hossain was aimed at killing him and sought a 'proper' investigation into the incident."Jakir is my most popular leader. Whoever did it, their aim was to kill him. A proper investigation should be done into the incident," she said, adding that a special investigation (SIT) team had been constituted for to investigate the attack from ‘every angle.’Hossain is among at least two dozen members of the Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress (TMC) party who sustained injuries in a bomb blast that took place around 9.45pm outside Nimtita railway station in Murshidabad district on Wednesday. He was shifted to a hospital in Kolkata where he remained in the intensive care unit. CM Mamata Banerjee visited the hospital to meet him.“Hossain had to be given numerous stitches. Doctors told us that he lost a lot of blood,” TMC’s Murshidabad district unit president Abu Taher Khan told reporters. Further, he accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) of carrying out the attack.Refuting the allegation, BJP state president Dilip Ghosh said that Hossain could be a victim of infighting in the TMC prior to the upcoming assembly polls. "Murshidabad has become a haven for criminals," he added.Kolkata mayor Firhad Hakim also condemned the incident and demanded on behalf of the party that the culprits be reprimanded. "Around 26 of our people, including Jakir Hossain, were injured; 14 of them are serious. Police investigation is on, CM said that CID, STF and CIF have joined in. I hope the Railways will help them. On behalf of the party, we want that culprits be arrested and brought to court," he said.People aware of the developments ruled out the terrorism angle and told Hindustan Times that the blast was a result of internal feud among the TMC.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/attack-aimed-at-killing-jakir-hossain-bengal-cm-seeks-proper-investigation-101613653288911.html
18-02-2021||Other||Pune district tops MSME registrations in country on new Udyam portal||PUNE Pune district has topped the number of registrations by micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME), on the new Udyam registration portal launched by the ministry of MSME.In the country, the highest registrations of micro enterprises are from Pune district, which are 3.9 per cent of the total registrations.This is followed by Thane (2.9 per cent), Bengaluru - urban (2.3 per cent), Jaipur (2.3 per cent) and Ahmedabad (2.3 per cent). The analysis of Udyam registration data is from July to December 2020. Prashant Girbane, director general of Mahratta Chamber of Commerce, Industries and Agriculture (MCCIA), said, “All MSMEs are required to register themselves with the new Udyam portal. Earlier, of 6.3 crore MSMEs in the country only 1 crore had registered on the Udyog Aadhar Memorandum platform. In July 2020, the new portal was launched and since, till December 2020, 21 lakh MSMEs have registered themselves.”“MSME Udyam registration is without any cost, very easy to do and is all online. To be a beneficiary of any government scheme in future, this registration is a must. It also helps to become a formal organisation which has its own benefits, including access to formal credit. All MSMEs should register themselves on the new portal and if they require any help, they can approach the MCCIA office, irrespective of the membership of the organisation,” Girbane said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pune-district-tops-msme-registrations-in-country-on-new-udyam-portal-101613656601808.html
18-02-2021||Other||Party made gains in Majha, Doaba, vote share up: AAP||Chandigarh The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Thursday claimed that the party made major gains in the civic polls in Majha and Doaba regions where the party was in a weak position. In a statement, AAP state unit president Bhagwant Mann said that though the party candidates had won a few seats, AAP’s vote share had increased significantly. In the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, the party got around 5.5% votes in urban areas, but polled almost three times more this time, he said, calling a good sign for the party. Of the 2,302 wards of eight municipal corporations and 109 municipal councils and nagar panchayats, the party won 60, or say less than 3%, wards across the state, falling way behind the Congress, which swept the polls, and the SAD. Mann said the party’s vote share in Amloh, Amritsar, Baba Bakala, Banga, Batala, Dasuya, Fatehgarh Sahib, Khanna, Majitha, Nabha, Pathankot, Patti, Payal, Rajpura, Samrala and Sujanpur had gone up significantly as compared to the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. In Majha and Doaba, where the party was in a weak position earlier, a lot of support was received this time, he said, thanking the urban voters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/party-made-gains-in-majha-doaba-vote-share-up-aap-101613656061614.html
18-02-2021||Pune||Covid RT-PCR test mandatory for passengers coming from Kerala: PMC||PUNE: Pune municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar on Thursday issued a notification making it mandatory for passengers coming from Kerala to undergo reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test. “With reported rise in Covid-19 cases in Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), we need to take precautions. As Kerala is witnessing a spike in virus cases, it has been decided that commuters coming from the southern state must undergo RT-PCR test,” Kumar said, adding that the order would get executed from February 18 itself. However, a PMC official, on condition of anonymity, said that though the civic chief has issued the instruction, no mechanism is in place for the civic administration to carry out the directive. “Passengers can be checked at the airport, but no team has been set up at other entry points, including railway stations and highways,” he said. Gathering for Shivaji Maharaj birth anniv celebrations limited to 100 people The Pune civic chief has issued another notification restricting gathering of people to celebrate Shivaji Maharaj birth anniversary (February 19) to 100. Pune district guardian minister Ajit Pawar had recently said, “Last year, citizens celebrated most of the festivals in a simple manner. Same should be followed on Shivaji Maharaj birth anniversary this year because of the Covid situation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/covid-rt-pcr-test-mandatory-for-passengers-coming-from-kerala-pmc-101613653301372.html
18-02-2021||Mumbai||Fadnavis slams Maha govt for allowing gatherings by MVA allies||Maharashtra opposition leader Devendra Fadnavis on Thursday said the Shiv Sena-led MVA government is adopting different yardsticks on adherence to Covid-19 protocols and sought to know why it is allowing gatherings by ruling allies.The BJP leader said the Uddhav Thackeray government is allowing large gatherings by ruling parties, but appealing others to avoid crowding to curb the spread of coronavirus.Speaking to reporters, Fadnavis said, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has asked us to follow Covid-19 protocols and avoid gatherings."However, we pointed out to him that this message should be given to political parties sharing power with him. They should be the ones who should be following Covid-19 guidelines strictly."The former chief minister took a dig at new Maharashtra Congress president Nana Patole, who has been holding rallies across the state after taking charge.The Leader of Opposition in the assembly was at Vidhan Bhavan to attend a Business Advisory Committee (BAC) meeting held ahead of the start of the budget session of the state legislature from March 1.He said, The state government does not appear very keen on holding a long session. We have demanded a four-week -long session for discussing all issues."The next round of meeting will be held on February 25 which will finalise the agenda for the first week of the session."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fadnavis-slams-maha-govt-for-allowing-gatherings-by-mva-allies-101613652749705.html
18-02-2021||Delhi||Delhi government disburses ₹3.18 crore to construction workers under welfare schemes||The Delhi government on Thursday disbursed ₹3.18 crore to 488 construction workers under various welfare schemes.Deputy Chief Minister and Labour minister Manish Sisodia handed over the cheques to the beneficiaries at an event held at the Delhi Secretariat here."It is the duty of a government to provide support to those in need. Delhi government is committed to streamline claim disbursal for the workers," Sisodia said.The Deputy CM reviewed and eased the grant-giving process for construction workers registered under the Delhi Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board, said a government statement.The beneficiaries included 181 construction workers who received claims under the maternity scheme, 131 under the education scheme, 53 under the death and funeral scheme and 51 under the pension scheme, it said."Every construction worker of Delhi should have the confidence that my government stands with them in the times of need. People of Delhi should have that level of trust in the government," said Sisodia. Applicants to the schemes need to call the number 1076. Afterwards, an official from the department pays a home visit to complete documentation process for registration.Once registered, applicants can receive approximately ₹35,000- ₹51,000 for marriage of daughter or son;  ₹1,00,000 for disabilities; ₹500- ₹10,000 for education; ₹3,000 monthly for pension; ₹2,00,000 for death due to accident; ₹1,00,000 for death due to natural causes; ₹10,000 for final rites; ₹2000- ₹10,000 for healthcare and ₹30,000 for maternal healthcare.Urging workers to disseminate information about the schemes, Sisodia said,"It is the key focus of Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal to extend help and hope to those who are not privileged. The politics of Delhi government is the politics of work."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-disburses-rs-3-18-crore-to-construction-workers-under-welfare-schemes-101613651636334.html
18-02-2021||Mumbai||Covid-19: 3 Maharashtra cities likely to face stricter curbs||The Maharashtra government may impose a stricter lockdown in Yavatmal, Amravati and Akola cities of the state's Vidarbha region "at any moment" in view of the Covid-19 situation there, government sources said on Thursday.Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and his deputy Ajit Pawar discussed the issue on Thursday morning and the step is likely to be taken accordingly, according to the sources.Talking to reporters here, Pawar said Thackeray has convened a meeting in the afternoon to discuss the situation and what decision is to be taken in connection with these cities.Of late, Maharashtra has been witnessing a surge in Covid-19 cases.The state reported 4,787 new Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, the highest one-day count this year.Among the districts, Amravati reported the highest rise in a day, from 82 cases on Tuesday to 230 cases on Wednesday.The Akola Municipal Corporation, which reported 67 cases under its areas on Tuesday, recorded 105 cases on Wednesday, an official earlier said."The government may impose a stricter lockdown at any moment in Yavatmal, Amravati and Akola cities. The chief minister and deputy CM Pawar discussed the issue in the morning," a source said.A (government) doctor was sent to Amravati for taking stock of the situation and he has given a telephonic report about the situation there. Accordingly, the decision is expected, the source said.Pawar said, "In the meeting (convened by the CM), we will discuss what decision is to be taken, whether the decision will be limited only to the three cities or should we also consider the rural areas (for imposing stricter curbs)."The deputy chief minister noted that till January-end, the number of Covid-19 patients discharged from hospitals after recovery was higher, while the number of positive patients reported in the entire state was less."But from February 1, positive cases started increasing in different areas (of the state). It is more evident in the Amravati division," Pawar said.In view of the recent spurt in cases, Chief Minister Thackeray on Tuesday warned that if Covid-19 norms are not followed, people should be prepared for a fresh round of strict lockdown.The government last month extended the coronavirus- induced lockdown in the state till February 28, even as a lot of restrictions have been eased in the last few months.The government's guidelines to operationalise 'Mission Begin Again' for easing of restrictions and phase-wise opening will remain in force till February 28, it had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid19-3-maharashtra-cities-likely-to-face-stricter-curbs-101613651749079.html
18-02-2021||Other||Cong tally in Moga rises to 29 as 9 Independents join party||Chandigarh In a boost for the Congress, nine Independents, who were elected to the Moga municipal corporation, joined the party on Thursday. The Congress was the single largest party in the Moga municipal corporation winning 20 of the 50 wards, but fell short of the majority mark. The newly elected Independent councilors, who joined the party in the presence of Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar, will give it a comfortable majority. They include Jaspreet Singh Vicky, Gurpreet Singh Sachdeva, Praveen Makkar, Buta Singh, Sukhwinder Kaur, Reema Sood, Tirath Ram, Payal, and Surinder Singh, according to a party statement. The fight for the Moga municipal corporation was a close one with the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) finishing second with 15 wards, while the AAP and the BJP won four and one wards, respectively. The Congress had swept seven of the eight municipal corporations that went to polls on February 14 with a clear majority. Besides nine Independents from Moga, three other newly elected Independent councilors – Surinder Minhas and Tarsem Makkar from Sujanpur municipal council in Pathankot and Baljit Singh Tinku from Pathankot MC – also joined the party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cong-tally-in-moga-rises-to-29-as-9-independents-join-party-101613651970424.html
18-02-2021||Other||BJP slips in bastions in Doaba; Congress wins both corporations||The Congress party won the Kapurthala and Hoshiarpur municipal corporations in the Doaba region comprising Jalandhar, Hoshiarpur, Kapurthala and Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar. Elections were held on 362 wards of 23 Urban Local Bodies (ULBs). Two Congress candidates were elected unopposed. Of 360 wards, the Congress won 219, the SAD got 20, AAP (11). Three seats went to Bahujan Samaj Party and 8 seats to (BJP) and 101 to Independents.SAD has four sitting MLAs in Jalandhar and SBS Nagar including Pawan Tinu from Adampur, Baldev Khaira from Phillaur, Gurpratap Singh Wadala and Sukhwinder Sukh from Banga, but has lost in these areas. The party has won one seat in Jalandhar district, and three in Banga besides, three seats in SBS Nagar where it was contesting with support of Azaad group. The BJP has won nine seats in Doaba, of which seven are in Hoshiarpur, a party stronghold, where it has the sitting MP and union minister Som Prakash.At Jalandhar’s 110 seats, Independents won 59; Congress (47) and two each by the BSP, the SAD and the BJP. Congress party won four councils of Phillaur, Mehatpur, Lohian Khas and Nakodar. Jalandhar MP Santokh Singh claimed that victory was because of pro-people policies of the state government.In SBS Nagar, Congress won 11 of 19 seats in the Nawnashahr council. Significantly, the Azaad group led by ex-Congress municipal council chief, Lalit Mohan Pathak including independents, SAD and BSP won eight seats. Pathak also won his own seat from ward 12 with 900-odd votes despite local Congress MLA, Angad Singh Saini, backing the party candidate.In Nawanshahr, Congress candidate from ward number 17, Chet Ram, won by just one vote against SAD. In Banga, of 15 seats, five each were won by the Congress and the AAP; SAD (3) and one each to BJP and the Independent.In Kapurthala, Congress won 45 seats in the 50-member corporation. In Sultanpur Lodhi council, of 13 wards, Congress won 10 and the SAD three. AAP and BJP didn’t open their account. A father-son, Narinder Singh and his son, Rahul Kumar who were contesting elections from Congress won from ward 34 and 32 in Kapurthala respectively. In Hoshiarpur district, Congress has wrested seven urban local bodies including Hoshiarpur corporation. Of total 142 seats, Congress got 101; SAD (6) and the BJP seven. In the region, around 101 Independents contested. In Rahon, 13 Independents won, of which the majority owe allegiance to the Congress. A Congress leader said, “We did not contest Rahon on our symbol, but will form the committee.” Congress didn’t contest in three bodies on their symbol in Jalandhar. The party won five seats, on a par with the Congress, in Banga council.Adampur MLA Pawan Kumar Tinu accused the Congress for using repression. Former BJP minister Manoranjan Kalia said, “This is not a true picture as the ruling party used unfair means. In Hoshiarpur, anti-incumbency crept in as we held the corporation.” Congress MLA Raj Kumar Chabbewal said, “Punjab government supported farmers, so they voted for us.”41 of 50 in Hoshiarpur are first-timers Hoshiarpur Congress won the Hoshiarpur municipal corporation and Tanda, Dasuya, Mukerian, Garhdiwala and Hariana municipal councils, In Garhshankar three of its candidates won on party symbols. The Hoshiarpur House is going to be full of fresh faces as 41 winning members are first-timers. Four lawyers have also among the winners. Congress nominee Inderjit Kaur won with the biggest margin of 1096 votes in ward number 19. The result of Talwara nagar panchayat by-poll also went in favour of Congress. The party also won one of the two seats of Mahilpur nagar panchayat. Congress won in 42 of the 50 wards of Hoshiarpur MC. BJP won in four while three seats went in favour of Independents. AAP opened its account by winning two seats in ward number 10 and 44. BJP suffered its biggest setback in ward no 5 where former minister Tikshan Sud’s wife Rakesh Sud lost to Congress nominee. SAD drew a blank with none of its 42 candidates bagging any seat. Majority of SAD candidates performed dismally. In ward number 14, its nominee polled only 12 votes. Industries and commerce minister Sunder Sham Arora said that people had voted for Congress’s development agenda. He said after decades, the city would have a Congress mayor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bjp-slips-in-bastions-in-doaba-congress-wins-both-corporations-101613651175608.html
18-02-2021||Chandigarh||Protesters lay siege to rail tracks in Punjab’s border belt||The four-hour rail roko call against the Centre’s farm laws passed off peacefully as farmers blocked rail tracks in the Majha region, comprising Amritsar, Tarn Taran, Gurdaspur and Pathankot districts, on Thursday afternoon. Most of the demonstrations were organised under the banner of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC), which holds sway in the border region and some districts of south Punjab. The farmers laid siege to the Amritsar-Delhi, Amritsar-Beas (via Tarn Taran), Amritsar-Khemkaran and Amritsar-Pathankot rail tracks. The protests were attended by hundreds of women, too. Activists of the Jamhoori Kisan Sabha (JKS) held a protest at the Amritsar city station. Some of the major demonstrations were held near Vallah and Dhilwan villages in Amritsar; at Kahnuwan and Fatehgarh Churian in Gurdaspur district; at Patti and Tarn Taran stations in Tarn Taran district. The protests were also held at the railway crossings of villages. JKS vice-president Rattan Singh Randhawa said, “We are ready to make every call of the farmers protesting at the Delhi border successful. Our struggle against the Centre will continue till the laws are taken back.” On their part, the railway authorities did not run any trains during the rail roko duration from noon till 4pm as a preventive measure. The KMSC’s indefinite rail blockade against the farm laws has been underway at the Jandiala Guru station for the past three months. The protesters there have not allowed any passenger train to run on the route. Overwhelming response in Doaba region Jalandhar: The rail roko call given by farmer unions got an overwhelming response on Thursday as protesters blocked tracks in villages and towns of Doaba region, comprising Jalandhar, Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar, Hoshiarpur and Kapurthala districts. The protesters demonstrated on tracks at the Jalandhar cantonment station besides Lohian. Activists of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (Rajewal), Kirti Kisan Union, Bahujan Samaj Morcha, Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee participated in the protest against the Centre’s farm laws. BKU (Rajewal) leader Kulwinder Singh said that the peaceful public movement can’t be crushed by the government machinery.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/protesters-lay-siege-to-rail-tracks-in-punjab-s-border-belt-101613648354371.html
18-02-2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Man arrested under Freedom of Religion ordinance||A 24-year-old man has been arrested under the Madhya Pradesh Freedom of Religion Ordinance for allegedly abducting a minor girl, forcing her to marry him and convert her religion in Indore on Wednesday night, said police. Police arrested the man under sections 366 (Kidnapping, abducting or inducing woman to compel her marriage), 363 (punishment for kidnapping) and 3/5 of the MP Freedom of Religion Ordinance 2020 late Wednesday night. Indore’s deputy inspector general (DIG) of police Manish Kapuria said, “Police received information that a minor girl was abducted and the man was forcing her to convert her religion and marry him.”Also Read | Uttar Pradesh: Told they cannot get married, interfaith couple attempts suicideHe said police found the girl at a hotel and arrested the man.“The girl told police that she met the man a few months ago and he introduced himself using a fake name. A few days ago, the girl came to know his real identity. When the girl refused to marry him, he abducted her on Wednesday,” said Kapuria. Police are interrogating the man and further investigation was on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/madhya-pradesh-man-arrested-under-freedom-of-religion-ordinance-101613647693977.html
18-02-2021||Chandigarh||Jagraon AAP MLA booked for highway protest after poll loss||Aam Aadmi Party Jagraon MLA Saravjit Kaur Manuke and her husband Sukhwinder Singh along with their supporters were booked on Thursday for staging a protest on National Highway 95 and blocking traffic, demanding recounting after the Congress swept the municipal council elections on Wednesday. Manuke, who is also the deputy leader of opposition in the Vidhan Sabha, along with party workers on Wednesday alleged discrepancy in the counting of votes. She sought a recount, claiming there was a difference in the number of votes polled and the count of votes in several wards. She said party agents were not shown the EVM machines. The MLA and her supporters were booked under Sections 188, 283 and 269 of the Indian Penal Code for disobeying the orders of a public servant, causing danger and obstruction in public way and deliberately spreading infection among people. They were also booked under Section 8B of the National Highway Act. The case was registered on the complaint of Gaganpreet Singh, the station house officer of Jagraon city police station. The SHO said that he was deployed at DAV College, Jagraon, to ensure peaceful counting of the municipal committee elections. Following their candidates’ defeat in the elections, the SHO said that the AAP leader and her supporters left the counting centre and staged a protest near Pehalwan Dhaba on National Highway 95, causing inconvenience to commuters. Following this, the MLA and her supporters took out a march in Jagraon city in violation of guidelines laid down by the deputy commissioner and health department for curtailing the spread of Covid-19. Besides, the protesters violated prohibitory orders in force in the wake of the elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jagraon-aap-mla-booked-for-highway-protest-after-poll-loss-101613646134158.html
18-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai Police issue advisory against fake online job racket||The Mumbai police on Thursday issued an advisory alerting people about a fake online job racket using a popular beverage company’s name to dupe unemployed youths. They said the fraudsters randomly send emails offering placement in the firm using its logo.Mumbai resident Ayub Syed said he received an email from the racket, informing him that he was one of the few selected for a job with the firm. “They informed me that I have to undergo training in Delhi and would soon be sent flight tickets. To complete the process, I was asked to deposit a refundable amount of ₹8,730,” said Syed, who deposited the money into a bank account.Also Read | Karnataka home minister gives police a new target: Crack the dark webHowever, Syed did not receive any tickets so he contacted the senders of the email, but in vain. Then, he approached the police which tracked the money and subsequently had it frozen.Similar rackets have become active to dupe unemployed youths because of job losses during the Covid-19 pandemic.Deputy police commissioner Rashmi Karandikar said before responding to any online job offer, people must first visit the official website of the company offering it. “No company asks for money to hire people. If anyone comes across a similar fraud, they should get in touch with the police.” Karandikar said cybercrimes should be reported within the first two hours so that the illegitimate transactions can be frozen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-police-issue-advisory-against-fake-online-job-racket-101613645953822.html
18-02-2021||Other||Pune’s World No. 1 U-14 UTR ranker eyes junior grand slams||The journey of city’s Manas Dhamne from winning his first trophy in 2013 at (5 years 11 months) to summiting the No. 1 rank in Universal Tennis Rating (UTR) in Under-14 category is a story of single-minded pursuit to succeed in the sport. The Class 7 student of The Bishop’s School, Camp, achieved 11.35 points to secure top spot in UTR and become the only one Indian player in top 10 in the latest ranking. Universal Tennis Rating is a global tennis player rating system intended to produce an objective, consistent and accurate index of players’ skill in tennis. It rates players on a single 16-point scale. “In this system, you achieve points when you defeat players from higher seeds at ITF tournaments and I have gained points by winning matches in the recent past,” said Dhamne, after his practice session at Metro city Sports Club, Kothrud, on Wednesday. Ravindra Pandey, Dhamne’s coach, said that the youngster likes to play with seniors. “He always wants to compete with higher age group players. He used to play practices matches with coaches during his under-10 days and never feared losing a match as his aim was only to improve his game,” said Pandey who has been coaching Dhamne since he started playing tennis at Solaris Sports World from the age of five years. “Fitness was the one factor on which I had to work to improve my strength and my gaining height has given me an advantage on the court,” said Dhamne who is supported by IMG Academy and HEAD, a sports equipment company. At 13, Dhamne aims to make an entry into Junior Grand Slams. “It is the next goal which we want to achieve. He has good backhand and needs to improve on other aspects – forehand, service, court control,” Pandey said. With Dhamne eligible for playing ITF tournaments from this year, the Maharashtra State Lawn Tennis Association had awarded him a wildcard for the tournament held in New Delhi last month. He reached the quarterfinal stage. Dhamne, on wildcard again, made it to the semis of the next ITF tournament in Gurugram. “MSLTA is guiding and supporting me in the endeavour. Our state and particularly Pune has produced many good players in tennis players and the association is providing all necessary facilities,” Dhamne said. Memorable achievements 2019: Winner in U12 Eddie Herr International Junior Championship, Florida Third place in Orange Bowl International Championship FloridaBronze medal, Qatar Asian Junior Team Cup U14, Miami, USA Winner in U14 Les-Petis, Asian Playoffs, Bali, Indonesia Winner in ITF Asian Under-12 tournament, Kazakhstan 2018: Under-12 national champion, Mumbai||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punes-world-no-1-u-14-utr-ranker-eyes-junior-grand-slams-101613645895611.html
18-02-2021||Bangalore||Election commission announces bypoll for vacant Karnataka legislative council seat on March 15||The bypoll to the Karnataka Legislative Council seat which fell vacant due to the death of Council deputy speaker S L Dharmegowda will take place on March 15, the Election Commission said on Thursday.According to the ECI order, notification for the bypoll will be issued on February 25 and the last date of filing nominations is March 4.The last date for withdrawal is March 8.The ECI said the polling by the MLAs will take place between 9 am to 4 pm on March 15 and counting of votes will take place the same day.The Commission said the election process should conclude before March 18.It also said the election will take place as per Covid-19 safety guidelines including wearing of face masks and using sanitisers.Dharmegowda, the 64-year-old JD(S) MLC, was found dead on a rail track in Chikkamagaluru district of Karnataka in the early hours of December 29, with police sources claiming he died by suicide. The late leader was at the centre of high drama in the legislative council on December 15, which saw BJP-JD(S) and Congress members hurling abuses and pushing each other over a row pertaining to a no-confidence motion against then Chairman K Pratapachandra Shetty. During the ruckus, Dharmegowda, who was in the Chairman's seat, was pulled down by some Congress legislators who accused him of occupying the chair against the rules.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/election-commission-announces-bypoll-for-vacant-karnataka-legislative-council-seat-on-march-15-101613645238045.html
18-02-2021||Mumbai||Fuel prices in Mumbai at all-time high: Diesel at ₹87/litre, petrol at ₹96.32/litre||Diesel prices in Mumbai crossed the ₹87 per litre mark on Thursday. One litre of diesel was available at ₹87.32, whereas one litre of petrol in the city was priced at ₹96.32. Both the fuel prices are at an all-time high. The petrol price had touched ₹96 per litre in the city on Wednesday whereas one litre of diesel was priced at ₹86.98. Also Read | Maharashtra deputy CM seeks Centre’s intervention over price riseTransporters have stated that due to the constant increase in diesel prices, small transport businesses are being affected and many are shut. “Many small transport businesses across the country are affected due to the continuous increase in diesel prices. Small transport operators operate on a daily basis and thus the constant fuel increase in a major concern.” said Bal Malkit Singh, chairman, All India Motor Transport Congress (AIMTC). On Tuesday, one litre of petrol was priced at ₹95.75 in the city whereas one litre of diesel was available at ₹86.72. On Monday, one litre of petrol was available at ₹95.46 and one litre of diesel was priced at ₹86.34 in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fuel-prices-in-mumbai-at-all-time-high-diesel-at-87-litre-petrol-at-9632litre-101613644994179.html
18-02-2021||Chandigarh||From gram sabha to Vidhan Sabha: BJP chief sets target for 2022||Bharatiya Janata Party national president JP Nadda said on Thursday that every BJP worker of Himachal Pradesh must work to achieve the party’s goal, from gram sabha to Vidhan Sabha, in the 2022 assembly elections. Addressing the inaugural session of the state BJP’s working committee meeting in Dharamshala, Nadda said: “The BJP is a political party with a difference as a common worker can reach the top position. For others, the family is the party. In the BJP, the party is a family. All other parties are marred by nepotism.” He said the BJP’s economic model is driven by the doctrine of “integrated humanism”. “It comes from the principle of antyodya. Antyoydya means the uplift of the last man in the line. Sabka sath, sabka vikas and sabka vishwas is an expansion of this principle and it is reflected in its schemes both at the Centre and states,” he said. Says cultural nationalism core principle Congratulating the state party unit on its victory in the recent panchayat elections, Nadda said the winning streak should not stop and aim of gram sabha to Vidhan Sabha must be achieved. Crediting the collective efforts of the party, he said: “No other party has the strength to make 18 crore members. They are no match.” The former Union minister said that cultural nationalism is the core principle and objective of the BJP “and we all have to take it forward”. He said unity is the strength of the party and it is due to this vigour that tough tasks are easily achieved. “However, sometimes this becomes a weakness as people become laidback as work gets easily done due to the massive strength. So, every worker should do a self-assessment of force he has applied and his relevance in that task,” he said. Himachal a model state for BJP Nadda said the BJP is a cadre-based and mass-based organisation. “Himachal has emerged as a model state in organisational programmes such as panna pramukh and booth-level presidents. For this, the state unit deserves appreciation and now you should take this to the next level by forming panna committees by March,” he said. Nadda also appealed to Himachal’s leaders to brand the handicraft of the state. Modi steered nation through pandemic He said Prime Minister Narendra Modi proved his leadership to the world during the Covid-19 pandemic. “While powerful countries with better infrastructure had given up, India showed the way due to the timely decisions taken by the Centre,” he said. “The country has also taken a lead in the vaccination of its population and is supplying vaccines to other countries as well,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/from-gram-sabha-to-vidhan-sabha-bjp-chief-sets-target-for-2022-101613644213610.html
18-02-2021||Bhopal||Educating mind of unborn baby part of MP’s new Ayurved at doorstep scheme||The Madhya Pradesh government will soon start a new scheme to promote Ayurveda by introducing campaigns on Ayurvedic Garbh Sanskar (educating the mind of an unborn baby), Panchakarma (five-step process to detoxify the body), Jaravastha Poshan (Geriatric nutrition) and Nadi Parikshan (Pulse diagnosis) through 362 wellness clinics around the state, officials said.The scheme called ‘Vaidya Apke Dwaar’, meaning an Ayurvedic doctor at one’s doorstep would start by the end of March. It is modeled on Delhi government’s Mohalla clinics except that the centers will have Ayurveda doctors.“The aim is to provide many services according to Vedas and classical Ayurvedic scriptures to teach people of MP how to live a long and healthy life,” said Ramkishor Kawre, minister of the state of Ayush department.The department will also hold a health survey of genotype (Prakriti Parikshan) of residents of MP to know about the health status of residents and to analyse the reason behind their ailments, said Rajeev Mishra, deputy director at the state’s Ayush department.“Ayush ministry has asked the states to open health wellness centers across the nation to decrease the burden of disease. In MP, we are strengthening the ayurvedic system which will run parallel to the conventional health system to prevent diseases related to lifestyles and will provide ayurvedic treatment to people," said Mishra.“Our objective is to promote Ayurvedic medicines and our ancient method of living a long and healthy life. For a healthy baby and good maternal health, we will introduce Garbh Sanskar. For adolescents, we will introduce Panchakarma and for geriatric nutrition, we will introduce Jaravastha Poshan, “said the officer.The objective is to prevent non-communicable diseases like diabetes, hypertension, cardiac issues, arthritis, renal disease and others by changing the lifestyle, he added.With wellness centers, the department will start pathology lab to perform the allopathic tests which are possible through rapid test kits, said the officer.The initial budget for both health wellness centers and Vaidya Apke Dwaar scheme is ₹55.5 crore, according to the official, who claimed it would increase as the demand of such centers increase.Also Read: Ahead of kisan mahapanchayat in Malwa region, MP issues prohibitory ordersIndian Medical Association MP convener, Shankul Dwivedi said it was fine to promote Ayurveda but how will the state government ensure that quackery was not promoted through this.“There should be a proper mechanism to check the activities of Vaidyas. The state government should have clear guidelines for Vaidyas. They shouldn’t be allowed to treat diseases for which they are not authorized or qualified. Otherwise, there are chances of promotion of quackery and exploitation of patients in the name of Ayurveda,” he added.However, Ayush Doctors’ Association president Rakesh Pandey said, “It is wrong to compare qualified Ayurvedic doctors with quacks. Ayurvedic is a tried and tested methodology, and it has the cure for many diseases, which Allopathy doesn’t have. It is a good decision by the state government and it will also increase employment opportunities for 20,000 qualified Ayurvedic doctors.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/educating-mind-of-unborn-baby-part-of-mp-s-new-ayurved-at-doorstep-scheme-101613643119164.html
18-02-2021||Mumbai||NCB arrests foreign national at Mumbai airport; recovers 3kg heroin from her||In a major breakthrough, Mumbai zonal unit of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) has arrested a foreign national at Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA), and allegedly recovered from her 3 kg heroin worth ₹9 crore in the illicit market.NCB zonal director Samir Wankhede of NCB said the arrested accused, identified as Khanyisile Promise Khalishwayo, hails from South Africa and she came to Mumbai from Johannesburg by a Qatar Airways flight.NCB officials had received prior information about the woman and intercepted her once she arrived.Also Read | Mandatory RT-PCR tests continue to create problems at Mumbai airportKhalishwayo was carrying a grey trolley bag in which she had concealed two packets containing the contraband material. One more packet was found in her hand bag, said NCB officials. The total weight of the three packets was 2.960 kilograms. NCB officials allegedly also recovered 10,000 South African Rand from her possession.The woman has been booked under relevant sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985.Heroin is an opioid drug made from morphine, a natural substance in the seedpod of the poppy plant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ncb-arrests-foreign-national-at-mumbai-airport-recovers-3kg-heroin-from-her-101613642773155.html
18-02-2021||Lucknow||'Rail roko' protest in UP peaceful, no law and order situation reported: Police||The rail roko agitation by farmers was peaceful in Uttar Pradesh, said Prashant Kumar, Additional Director General of Police (ADG) Law and Order UP Police."Kisan Andolan' in UP peaceful so far. Neither any law & order situation have been reported nor 'rail roko' agitation anywhere till 11 am. We're ensuring that no anti-social elements in the garb of farmers ruin peaceful protest. Police instructed to take strict action against them," Kumar told ANI.Meanwhile many incidents of protesters blocking trains are reported from several parts of the country.In Palwal of Haryana, Jammu's Channi Himat area, and Fatehpur Sahib of Punjab - protesters were seen on railway tracks protesting against the new farm laws.Railways have deployed 20 additional companies of the Railway Protection Special Force in view of the protest.The farmers union had said the rail roko agitation will be done in a peaceful manner and food with refreshments will be provided to people stranded due to the protest.After the tractor rally and 'chakka jaam', 'rail roko' is the next major protest by the farmers against the three farm laws.Farmers have been protesting at the different borders of the national capital since November last year, against the three newly enacted farm laws - Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/rail-roko-protest-in-up-peaceful-no-law-and-order-situation-reported-police-101613641606337.html
18-02-2021||Other||NGT forms committee to probe firecracker factory blast in Tamil Nadu||The National Green Tribunal has formed a committee headed by a former high court judge and directed it to submit a report in relation to a firecracker factory blast in Tamil Nadu's Virudhunagar district in which 19 workers were killed.The explosion occurred on February 12 when some chemicals were being mixed to produce fireworks at the unit in Acchankulam village.A bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice A K Goel issued notices to the Tamil Nadu government, Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), State Pollution Control Board (SPCB), Virudhunagar District Magistrate and Sree Mariyammal Fireworks factory.The green panel said that to secure credible facts, it is constituting an eight-member committee including former high court judge Justice K Kannan, representatives of Union Environment Ministry, CPCB, State Disaster Management Authority, Head of the Chemical Engineering Department of IIT Chennai, Chief Control of Explosives in Nagpur, Nominee of Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organization and Chief Inspector of Factories, Tamil Nadu."The District magistrate, Virudhunagar and Regional Office, State PCB may provide logistic support to the Committee to enable their fact finding and reporting. State PCB will bear the initial cost of functioning of the Committee, including the honorarium to the non-official members to be determined in consultation with them."The Committee will be at liberty to take assistance of such experts, individuals and institutions as may be considered necessary. The State PCB and the CPCB will jointly act as nodal agency for coordination and compliance," the bench said.The Committee (or such members as the Chairman may decide depending on availability) may visit the site preferably within one week and give its report within one month by e-mail, the NGT said.The tribunal said that except for visit to the site at least once, the Committee will be free to conduct its proceedings online. It will be free to take the assistance from any other expert/organization."The Committee may suitably interact with the stakeholders and, apart from considering the present incident, also consider remedial measures for preventing such incident in the area or by other establishments even beyond the said area," it said while posting the matter for hearing on April 30.Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Tamil Nadu Chief Minister K Palaniswami, Governor Banwarilal Purohit and Congress MP Rahul Gandhi were among those who condoled the deaths.Modi and Palaniswami announced an ex-gratia of ₹two lakh each and three lakh each to the kin of the deceased from the Prime Minister's National Relief Fund and the chief minister's Public Relief Fund respectively.The factory building was damaged badly under the impact of the explosion and many suffered burns.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ngt-forms-committee-to-probe-firecracker-factory-blast-in-tamil-nadu-101613641149219.html
18-02-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra deputy CM seeks Centre's intervention over price rise||In the wake of the rising prices of fuel and other commodities, Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar on Thursday said the Centre should intervene at the earliest to give relief to citizens who are facing hardships.The prices of branded or additive-laced petrol, which attracts higher taxes, have crossed the ₹100-mark in some places, including Maharashtra.After Thursday's price rise, petrol in Mumbai costs ₹96.32 a litre and diesel ₹87.32.Oil Minister Dharmendra Pradhan on Wednesday blamed output cut by oil-producing nations for the rally in international oil prices that have translated into higher retail rates in India.Talking to reporters here, Pawar, who is also Maharashtra's finance minister, said prices are going up.The Centre presented the budget on February 1, and the prices of steel, cement, petrol, diesel, LPG cylinders and even of asphalt are going up, he noted."The Centre should intervene at the earliest and bring down the prices...the common man is facing hardships now," the minister said.Asked whether the state will give relief to people in the state's budget, to be presented next month, Pawar said he cannot speak on the issue at this juncture."We will take a decision after discussing it with the chief minister, cabinet and our colleagues. We will declare it in the Assembly," Pawar said.To a query on Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari seeking to know from the state government when it plans to hold election for a new Speaker of the Legislative Assembly, Pawar said the governor has the right to ask about it."The cabinet discussed it. The government will reply to him (Koshyari) after discussing it," the NCP leader said.The Speaker's post is lying vacant after the incumbent, Nana Patole, resigned earlier this month to take charge as the Maharashtra Congress president.Pawar said the post of Assembly's Speaker cannot be kept vacant for a long time and the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi (comprising the Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress) wants to fill it, and a discussion is on in this regard.To a question on the Congress mulling to move court over the 'delay' by Koshyari in the appointment of 12 members to the Legislative Council from the governor's quota, Pawar said names should be declared as the budget session is nearing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-deputy-cm-seeks-centre-s-intervention-over-price-rise-101613640062896.html
18-02-2021||Lucknow||UP Assembly budget session: Opposition MLAs walk out during Governor Anandiben Patel's address||The MLAs of opposition Samajwadi Party, Bahujan Samaj Party and Congress staged a walk out from the Uttar Pradesh Assembly during Governor Anandiben Patel's address on the first day of the Budget Session on Thursday.The MLAs of the Samajwadi Party also shouted slogans against the ruling BJP inside the Assembly before walking out.Congress MLA Aradhana Misra, while talking to media after the walk out from the Assembly, said her party expected the government to express condolences for the farmers who died during the ongoing protest against three farm laws, but the 'compassionless' state government did not do so."We had thought that the state government will offer condolences for the farmers who died during farmers' protest before the Governor's address to the Assembly. But there is no compassion in the government, the Governor also started her address without paying respect to the farmers. Most farmers who died were from Uttar Pradesh. We registered our protest against the Governor's address and after that walked out from the assembly," said Misra.BSP MLA Aslam Raini said his party 'boycotted' the Governor's address to protest against the state government's treatment of protesting farmers and the poor law and order situation of the state."The Governor was in disagreement with the government's policies that is why she came for her address seven minutes late. The crime in the state, especially crime against women has increased under this government," said Raini.The Budget Session of the Assembly commenced today with an address by Governor Anandiben Patel to a joint sitting of both Houses. The session will continue till March 10.On February 16, Covid-19 tests of all MLAs and MLCs were conducted in view of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-assembly-budget-session-opposition-mlas-walk-out-during-governor-s-address-101613639254737.html
18-02-2021||Kolkata||Murshidabad blast: Mamata orders probes by 3 agencies, announces compensation||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday announced compensation of ₹5 lakh for each person injured in a blast inside a railway station in Murshidabad district on Wednesday night, which also left state minister Zakir Hossain critically wounded. Banerjee also ordered three separate probes into the incident by three investigating agencies – the Criminal Investigation Department, Special Task Force and Counter Insurgency Force. “The state will bear the treatment cost and even provide artificial limbs to those whose legs and hands have been blown off. The state will provide compensation of ₹5 lakh to each of the seriously injured and 1 lakh each to those who sustained minor injuries,” she said. Also Read | Bengal minister injured in bomb attack in Murshidabad; rushed to hospital“I am not leaving this investigation upon just one agency. Three big state agencies – CID, STF and CIF – will probe the incident,” she said after visiting SSKM Hospital in Kolkata where some of the injured, along with the minister, were admitted. A powerful explosion rocked Nimtita railway station in Murshidabad district on Wednesday night, injuring Hossain and at least 26 others. The minister and 10 other victims were shifted to Kolkata. The chief minister compared the incident with the blast that killed Beant Singh (former Punjab chief minister) and the one which targeted Maninder Singh Bitta (Congress youth leader). “Those who were with him have claimed that the blast was remotely controlled. Police is investigating so nothing concrete can be said as of now. But prima facie it appears that it was pre-planned,” she said. Piyush Goyal, Union railways minister, tweeted: “I condemn the dastardly bomb attack at Nimtita Railway Station in West Bengal. My prayers are for the quick recovery of the injured.” Banerjee attacked the centre saying that the blast took place inside the railway station and it was beyond the jurisdiction of the state police. She said that neither there were any rail security personnel nor lights in that area. “It was their game plan to kill Zakir. The incident took place inside railway property and it is the responsibility of the Union government. The state police have no jurisdiction. I don’t understand how the railway authorities are taking this so casually. It is a big conspiracy. We want the truth to come out. His condition is very critical and he is undergoing surgery,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/murshidabad-blast-mamata-orders-probes-by-3-agencies-announces-compensation-101613639885369.html
18-02-2021||Chandigarh||Protesters on track, trains off track in Punjab amid farmers’ rail roko call||Scores of farmers and activists protesting against the Centre’s three farm laws gathered on rail tracks across Punjab in response to the rail roko (blockade) call given by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha from 12 noon to 4pm on Thursday, with railway officials stopping trains at stations as a precautionary measure. Farm union activists blocked the tracks at more than 40 spots in Ferozepur railway division that covers most of Punjab. A large number of women also joined the agitators in the south Punjab region of Malwa, demanding the Centre roll back the farm laws. Officials said security was tightened to handle any untoward situation. Rail services to resume after protesters vacate tracks Ferozepur divisional manager Rajesh Agarwal said no train was cancelled or diverted on Thursday in view of the agitation. “Train services in the division, comprising a major part of Punjab, Himachal Pradesh and Jammu, ran as scheduled till 11.30am. After that, trains were stopped till 4pm at main stations,” he said. Train services will be resumed after the protesters vacate rail tracks. “Following the railway track safety audit, trains will be back in service. The railway authorities are in constant touch with the state police administration,” the DRM added. Rail blockades in Sangrur, Patiala, Fatehgarh Sahib Hundreds of farmers laid siege to rail tracks at multiple locations in Patiala, Sangrur and Fatehgarh Sahib districts. Trains running under the Ambala rail division were halted at major stations across the region so that passengers were not inconvenienced, officials said. “No train has been cancelled and no untoward incident has been reported,” the Ambala ADRM (Operations) Pankaj Gupta said. Besides the repeal of the farm laws, the protesters demanded the release of activists arrested after the January 26 violence in Delhi. Protests were held at Shambu, Patiala and Nabha in Patiala district and at Sirhind in Fatehgarh Sahib district. Rail blockades were also held in neighbouring Sunam, Sangrur and Barnala besides Ludhiana.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/protesters-on-track-trains-off-track-in-punjab-amid-farmers-rail-roko-call-101613638565419.html
18-02-2021||Delhi||Rail roko: Delhi Metro shuts entry, exit to four stations||The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) has closed entry and exit to four Metro stations near the Tikri border, one of the sites where farmers have been camping in protest against the centre’s farm laws.In a tweet on Thursday, DMRC said that entry and exit to Tikri border, Pandit Shri Ram Sharma, Bahadurgarh and Brigadier Hoshiar Singh have been closed. Officials said this was done because of “security concerns” raised by Delhi Police.Also Read | Delhi Metro to go contactless as DMRC pushes for QR code, RuPay-based ticketingDMRC official handle tweeted, “Security Update: Entry/exit for Tikri Border, Pandit Shree Ram Sharma, Bahadurgarh City, and Brig. Hoshiar Singh have been closed.”Officials said that these Metro stations are located right where the farmers are protesting and the gates were closed as a preventive step, after the farmer leaders announced ‘rail roko’ (railway blockade) as a mark of protest against the new farm laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/rail-roko-delhi-metro-shuts-entry-exit-to-four-stations-101613638086764.html
18-02-2021||Bhopal||MP: CM meets families of Sidhi bus accident victims, provides ₹7 lakh ex-gratia to each||Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Wednesday met the familie members of the victims of a bus accident in state's Sidhi district to provide them with ₹7 lakh ex-gratia that was earlier announced by the state government and the Centre."I am meeting with the families of victims of an unfortunate bus accident that was occurred in Sidhi. These kinds of incidents shake a person from inside. We cannot bring them back who has gone, but we will leave no stone unturned to support the family," Chouhan said in a tweet.He also expressed his condolences and assured that the government was working towards the betterment of the families."We are with the families of the victims. Right now, ₹seven lakh are being provided to the families. Apart from this, the government is committed to the betterment of the family according to the situation of the family whether it is the education of their children, employment, or business," he said.The chief minister informed that an investigation had been ordered into the accident. He said that short and long term planning would be undertaken to prevent such accidents in the future and that the MD of Road Development Corporation and engineers would take a decision on the repair work and immediately start working on it.Chouhan had announced an ex-gratia of ₹5 lakh to the families of the victims on Tuesday while Prime Minister Narendra Modi had announced an ex-gratia of ₹2 lakh for the families and ₹50,000 for those seriously injured.The bus was travelling from Sidhi to Satna when the driver lost control and it fell into a canal in Sidhi. Fifty seven passengers were on board and as many as 50 lost their lives.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/mp-cm-meets-families-of-sidhi-bus-accident-victims-provides-rs-7-lakh-ex-gratia-to-each-101613627830714.html
18-02-2021||Mumbai||Man killed trying to stop neighbours’ fight in Mumbai’s Ghatkopar||A 35-year-old Ghatkopar resident died when a neighbour slit his throat for trying to end a fight on Wednesday.According to the Pantnagar police, the victim, identified as Shashikant alias Munna Nagendra, was asleep in his house in Ghatkopar east when he was woken up by commotion outside. He noticed that his neighbours, Ram Shiromani Yadav (55) and Nanhe Yadav (40), were arguing over some issue right at his doorstep. Nagendra saw Nanhe trying to hit Ram Shiromani. He stepped out and tried to separate the two men. By then, Nanhe had picked up a knife and assaulted Ram Shiromani.As injured Ram Shiromani fell down, Nagendra managed to pull Nanhe back and tried to calm him down when Nanhe, who was still holding the knife, slit his throat in a fit of rage. Also Read | Uttar Pradesh: Temple priest in Badaun charged with rape and murderLocals who had gathered at the spot rushed the two injured men to a hospital. Some of them informed the police about the incident. Nanhe, however, succeeded in fleeing from the spot.“While Shiromani was admitted to the hospital, Nagendra was declared dead on arrival,” said a police officer from the Pantnagar police station.The police have booked Nanhe on the charges of murder, attempt to murder and assault under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and have launched a manhunt to arrest him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/man-killed-trying-to-stop-neighbours-fight-in-mumbai-s-ghatkopar-101613629865221.html
18-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Decision on local train timing restriction to be taken after Feb 20||The final decision on the timing of local trains in Mumbai will be taken after February 20 as per Additional Municipal Commissioner Suresh Kakani. He said that they would review the situation after February 20 following which, decisions on the timing restrictions would be taken."Currently we cannot say that cases have increased due to the resumption of local trains. But we have decided to review it again after February 20 and the final decision will be taken at that time," he said on Wednesday.As per reports, the decision was taken in the weekly meeting which was attended by representatives of the state government and health officials.The general public were allowed to travel in Mumbai's local trains on February 1, after a gap of nearly 300 days, due to the coronavirus pandemic. The trains currently are allowed to ferry the general public in three time slots: From the time of the start of the services till 7am, from 12 noon to 4pm, and from 9pm till the time of the closure of services for the day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-decision-on-local-train-timing-restriction-to-be-taken-after-feb-20-101613625273283.html
18-02-2021||Delhi||Entry, exit at 4 Delhi metro stations closed in view of farmers’ rail roko call||The entry and exit gates of at least four metro stations in Delhi were closed on Thursday ahead of the four-hour ‘rail roko’ agitation called by farmers protesting against three agricultural laws enacted by the Centre in September last year.“Security Update Entry/exit for Tikri Border, Pandit Shree Ram Sharma, Bahadurgarh City, and Brig. Hoshiar Singh have been closed,” the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) wrote on Twitter.The move comes as farmers, who have been camping at Delhi borders for the past two and half months demanding a repeal of new farm laws, have called for a four-hour nationwide railway blockade between 12 noon and 4 pm. Farm union leaders have assured that it will be peaceful protest and said that they are expecting support for the programme from farmers across the nation.The Delhi Police have also tightened security in several parts of the national capital, especially near railway tracks and patrolling has also been increased, officials told news agency PTI.Meanwhile, the railways has deployed 20 additional companies of the Railway Protection Special Force (RPF) across the country, with focus on Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal in view of the ‘rail roko’ call.Follow latest updates on farm stir here "Security forces have been deployed so as to prevent any chances of harm to railway property," said Bhim Singh, Incharge GRP Palwal Railway station Haryana. Anup Singh, SHO, city Palwal told news agency ANI that 3000 security personnel have been deployed for Palwal railway station and stations nearby.Earlier in the day, Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait reiterated that the protests will be conducted peacefully and that they’ll provide the stranded passengers with refreshments during the blockade. "We'll provide water, milk, lassi and fruits to people who are stranded. We will inform them about our issues," he told ANI.The protesting farmers are demanding a complete rollback of three laws-Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020- cleared during the monsoon session of Parliament last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/entry-exit-at-4-delhi-metro-stations-closed-in-view-of-farmers-rail-roko-call-101613629301287.html
18-02-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Temple priest in Badaun charged with rape and murder||Police in Uttar Pradesh’s Badaun on Wednesday filed a charge sheet against a rape and murder accused temple priest even as gang rape charges have been dropped against his two aides.Satyanarayan, the priest, and his aides, Jaspal and Vedram Pal, were arrested for murder and gang rape after they handed over a 50-year-old woman’s body to her family claiming she fell into a dry well on their temple premises in January.Also Read | Kerala HC rejects priest’s bail plea to marry woman he is convicted of rapingSenior police superintendent Sankalp Sharma said Satyanarayan was charged with murder and rape following their investigation while Vedram Pal and Jaspal were only found to have attempted to conceal the evidence. He cited forensic reports and the mobile phone location of the accused and added they belied the claims that the woman had fallen into the well.“Marks of resistance were also found in the post-mortem investigation. There is strong forensic evidence of sexual assault by the priest. We will try to make the case for hearing in a fast-track court.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-temple-priest-in-badaun-charged-with-rape-and-murder-101613629147473.html
18-02-2021||Chandigarh||Post-Covid, Indian Institute of Advanced Study in Shimla opens doors for tourists||Almost a year since the Covid-19 induced lockdown, the 18th century British-era building of the Indian Institute of Advanced Study (IIAS) in Shimla was opened for visitors on Thursday. “The building is now open for visitors from 11am to 1pm and 2pm to 4pm. However, they will have to adhere to the standard operating procedure (SOPs) amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Visitors need to carry hand sanitisers and maintain social distancing,” said Akhilesh Pathak, the public relations officer at IIAS. Built in 1888 and formerly known as Viceregal Lodge, the majestic building on the Observatory Hills 3km from The Ridge, served as the summer residence of the viceroys who governed India between 1886 and 1946 and came to be known as Rashtrapati Niwas, the President of India’s retreat in 1964. Big draw with tourists Due to its old-world charm, it is popular with tourists. On an average, two lakh tourists visited the building annually before the lockdown. The IIAS charges ₹40 as entry fee from domestic tourists and ₹85 from foreign nationals. Those who want to see the building from outside alone are charged ₹20. The government earns an estimated ₹85 lakh annually from visitors to the building, which was thrown open to the public in 1992 and declared a heritage structure in 1997. Witness to history being made During the Raj, several significant strategies were deliberated upon in the building that served as the nerve centre of the British administration. Thirteen viceroys stayed in the building with Lord Dufferin being the first to move in and Lord Mountbatten the last. The Simla Conference of 1945 at Viceregal Lodge was attended by the then viceroy, Lord Wavell, and leaders of the Indian Muslim League and the Indian National Congress such as Jawaharlal Nehru, Maulana Abul Kalam Azad, Liaqat Ali Khan, Master Tara Singh and Mohammed Ali Jinnah. It is said to have laid the foundation of the Partition as the meet was convened by Lord Wavell to find a way out of Jinnah’s insistence for Pakistan. Mahatma Gandhi was in Shimla at that time but didn’t attend the meet. The table where the Partition papers were prepared is carved out of walnut wood and displayed in one of the galleries of the building. In May 1947, Lord Mountbatten discussed the plan for Partition at the same table. Sir Cyril Radcliffe was given two months to chalk out the boundary between India and Pakistan. Radcliffe was optimistic that at the final meeting, differences would be resolved but the four members of the commission, comprising two Muslims, a Hindu and a Sikh, disagreed so much that he took it upon himself to do the needful. The ballroom that was the venue for the Simla conference has now been converted into a library. Standing the test of time Viceregal Lodge was designed by British architect Henry Irwin and built in the Jacobethan style during Lord Dufferin’s tenure as viceroy. Its construction started in 1880 and was completed in 1888. Lord Dufferin occupied the lodge on July 23, 1888. It was built at a cost of ₹38 lakh with an annual upkeep cost of ₹1.5 lakh in the 1880s. The estate stood on 331 acres but today it’s reduced to 110 acres. The structure draws inspiration from the architectural style of the English Renaissance, and also reflects elements of the castles of the Scottish Highlands. The building is of light blue-grey stone masonry with tiled pitch roofing. The interior of the main building has elaborate woodwork that has stood the test of time. Teak was brought from Burma, and was supplemented by local cedar wood and walnut. The second president of India, S Radhakrishnan, thought of putting the building to academic use and the Indian Institute of Advanced Study was set up at Rashtrapati Niwas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/postcovid-indian-institute-of-advanced-study-in-shimla-opens-doors-for-tourists-101613629025071.html
18-02-2021||Mumbai||36 lakh people using local trains in Mumbai daily since February 1||Some 36 lakh commuters are using Mumbai's suburban train network every day after its services were thrown open to the general public with restricted timings on February 1 amid the coronavirus outbreak, officials said on Tuesday.The daily suburban train ridership comprises 19.30 lakh people on Central Railway and 16.50 lakh on Western Railway, they informed.Since February 1, CR has fined 2,060 passengers a cumulative sum of 1.21 lakh for not wearing masks while the figure of those penalised on WR was 2,558 and the amount was ₹3.21 lakh, the official said."We just assisted the BMC in taking action against those traveling without masks," said CR CPRO Shivaji Sutar.Train services for the general public with restricted timings started on February 1 after a gap of 320 days, having been stopped in March 22 last year as the nation went into lockdown to contain the Covid-19 pandemic.From June, 15, it was thrown open for frontline and essential staff engaged in the fight against the outbreak.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/36-lakh-people-using-local-trains-in-mumbai-daily-since-february-1-101613626966387.html
18-02-2021||Lucknow||BJP scales up Suheldev's anniversary celebrations ahead of UP panchayat polls||The Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) grand celebration of the birth anniversary of 11th-century king Suheldev, an icon of the other backward caste (OBC) communities in Uttar Pradesh, is being seen as a bid to counter former political ally Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP) while consolidating Dalit and OBC votes for the upcoming rural panchayat elections. While the Yogi Adityanath government organised birth anniversary of the warrior king in each district, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a 40-feet high statue in the king’s memory on Tuesday.As per the new reservation policy both Dalits and OBCs would have more representation in the predominantly rural polls due in April-May and Om Prakash Rajbhar, who named his party SBSP after the warrior king, is planning to take on the BJP by forming an alliance of small groups.“He (Suheldev) is one of us. There is enough proof. But, we are not bothered about who is staking claim to his legacy. As for us, we definitely propose to go to each village talking about the greatness of Suheldev ji. Some may be felicitating him for political reasons but for us, he is our guide, guru, and god,” said SBSP chief.But the BJP does not appear to be leaving anything to chance. The party through a slew of activities, including getting a song penned in honour of the king, is hoping to connect with the lower caste groups.The BJP maintains King Suheldev didn’t get his due from past governments and historians. The party has been working to glorify the ruler of Shravasti, located in Bahraich district. State’s cabinet minister Anil Rajbhar said stories of Suheldev’s valour will be popularized not just in UP but across the country as the state’s culture department has got some artists to sing a song in the memory of the king whose caste origins are mired in a controversy of sorts.Some call him a Dalit who was born into the Pasi caste, while others feel he was a backward, born into the Rajbhar caste. BJP leaders said they won’t mind if both the numerically dominant castes claim the king to be from among them.Also Read: Why use FAStag for cars which ply in city limit, asks RLD“Either way, these caste groups have been with the BJP since 2014 and will continue to be with us. We idolise him for his bravery and his patriotism,” said UP BJP vice president Vijay Bahadur Pathak, who is also the in-charge of forthcoming rural panchayat polls due in April-May.He recalled how in 2016, Union home minister Amit Shah had visited Bahraich and hailed Suheldev as a national hero and unveiled his statue and also named a train after him. PM Modi had also released a stamp in Suheldev’s memory.Before that, Rajnath Singh, the present defense minister, too had got Suheldev’s statue installed when he was the chief minister of Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bjp-scales-up-suheldev-s-anniversary-celebrations-ahead-of-up-panchayat-polls-101613627379183.html
18-02-2021||Lucknow||Security increased outside UP Assembly ahead of Budget Session||Security outside the Uttar Pradesh Assembly was increased ahead of the commencement of the Budget Session on Thursday.Samajwadi Party workers and leaders protested against the state government outside the State Assembly today. The party workers reached the Vidhan Sabha on tractors with crops as a mark of protest against the three farm laws passed by the BJP government in the CenterThe Budget Session will commence on Thursday with an address by Governor Anandiben Patel to a joint sitting of both houses.State Finance Minister Suresh Khanna is slated to present the budget at 11 am on Monday. The session will continue till March 10.An all-party meeting was also called by Speaker Hriday Narayan Dikshit on Wednesday ahead of the budget presentation. He sought cooperation from the leaders for the smooth running of the budget session.He had informed that the budget will be paperless and the finance minister will read out the Budget paper from a tablet.On February 16, Covi-19 tests of all MLAs and MLCs were conducted in view of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/security-increased-outside-up-assembly-ahead-of-budget-session-101613627045488.html
18-02-2021||Mumbai||Woman’s tobacco addiction not sufficient for divorce: Bombay high court||A woman’s habit of chewing tobacco by itself is not sufficient to grant divorce to her husband, the Bombay high court held last week and dismissed plea for dissolution of marriage filed by a Nagpur resident.The division bench of justice AS Chandurkar and justice Pushpa Ganediwala dismissed appeal filed by the 42-year-old after noticing that all the allegations levelled by him were general and omnibus in nature.“The major allegation among them is with regard to her habit of chewing tobacco or kharra, which alone is not sufficient to grant a decree of divorce,” said the bench while dismissing his appeal.The man had moved the HC in appeal after a family court at Nagpur in January 2015 dismissed his divorce petition. He said he married in June 2003 in accordance with Buddhist rites and rituals and had a daughter and a son with his wife. However, he alleged that his wife didn’t perform her duties as a housewife, would often quarrel with him and his family, and leave the matrimonial house without informing him.Also Read | Bombay HC tells ED to not take coercive action against Avinash BhosaleHe added that his wife was addicted to chewing tobacco and had developed a cyst in her abdomen because of that, and he had to incur heavy expenses for getting that surgically treated.The family court had, however, rejected his petition, concluding that the allegations were not sufficient to grant decree of divorce on the ground of cruelty.Concurring with the family court, the high court bench said careful perusal of the pleadings and the evidence submitted by the husband revealed that the allegations were nothing but “normal wear and tear in married life”.The judges said that so far as the treatment meted out by the spouses to each other was concerned, the woman was on a better footing than her husband, as she cohabited with him for about two years even after he was found HIV positive in 2008.The court said that if the marriage was dissolved, the children would suffer, and it was in the best interests that the marital tie remains intact.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/womans-tobacco-addiction-not-sufficient-for-divorce-bombay-high-court-101613626625052.html
18-02-2021||Lucknow||Why use FAStag for cars which ply in city limit, asks RLD||Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) flayed the Centre on Wednesday for issuing an order seeking to levy a penalty for not putting FASTag on passenger and goods vehicles and asked why the tag was held important for vehicles that only plied within the city limits. The party demanded that the government withdraws the order.Party national spokesman Anupam Mishra said the government had made FASTag compulsory for all new vehicles when it was useless for those who didn’t travel beyond city limits. Mishra was addressing a press conference in Lucknow."Why should anyone who does not travel beyond city limits be forced to put a FASTag on his vehicle," Mishra questioned.FASTag is an electronic toll payment system that has been implemented across the national highways in the country since February 16. The system works through a unique code for every vehicle enabling digital payment of the toll tax when the vehicle crosses the sensors attached at the toll plazas. As per NH Fee Rules 2008, any vehicle not fitted with FASTag or vehicle without valid, functional FASTag entering into the FASTag lane of the toll plaza shall pay a fee equivalent to two times the fee applicable to that category, road and highway ministry had said in a notification. Mandatory implementation of the FASTag system has also resulted in traffic delays at several toll plazas.Made mandatory for each vehicle, the minimum price for Fastag is ₹200. All this, Mishra claimed was an organised loot.Also Read: 3,800 FASTag violators pay double toll penalty at Khed-Shivapur toll plazaHe claimed the decision to do away with cash-lanes on toll-plazas would also be a reason for harassment of vehicle owners crossing the highways.In a different statement, another party leader Anil Dubey criticised the Central government for an increase in the prices of LPG and diesel/petrol.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/why-use-fastag-for-cars-which-ply-in-city-limit-asks-rld-101613624275887.html
18-02-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka gives in to protesters, puts Turahalli tree park project on hold||The Karnataka government on Wednesday announced that it has temporarily halted the controversial tree park project in Turahalli reserve forest area, on the outskirts of Bengaluru, that aims to develop the 400 acres of land into a tree park, and has evoked large scale protests over the last one month.Forest minister Arvind Limbavali, who visited Turahalli on Tuesday, said: “Local MLA[member of legislative assembly] S T Somshekar and I visited Turahalli forest. We heard the grievances of the people and have decided to temporally stop the tree park (project). We are thinking of shifting the park from here to another place. We have instructed the officers to fence the property.”On Tuesday evening, the forest minister’s office confirmed the development to HT and said that the final decision will be taken after consulting Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa. Turahalli is located in south Bengaluru, 20 km off Kanakapura road.Vijetha Sanjay, a resident of the area, said that more than 200 people have been protesting the government’s decision since the first week of February.“Ever since we saw earthmovers near the forest, we have been protesting the move. We have written to the Prime Minister, organised a walkathon and kept watch of any development near the forest. The government’s decision is big for those who campaigned to save the forest,” she said. The park is part of the government’s Mission 2020 plan to develop 132 tree parks across the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-gives-in-to-protesters-puts-turahalli-tree-park-project-on-hold-101613623560267.html
18-02-2021||Lucknow||Transgender-only toilet opened in Varanasi, it is UP’s first||For the first time, a public toilet for the transgender community has been built in the state of Uttar Pradesh by the Varanasi Nagar Nigam, in Kamachcha area of the holy city. The toilet was formally inaugurated by Varanasi mayor Mridula Jaiswal in the presence of several officials and transgender persons on Tuesday.“We are thankful to the Varanasi Nagar Nigam for providing us with a toilet. In absence of a toilet, we used to face problems. Such toilets should be built in other parts of the city and also in other cities,” said Roshani, a transgender.Mayor Jaiswal said the first toilet for transgender persons in the city will end the inconvenience faced by the community and give them the dignity they thoroughly deserve.The toilet was thrown open for use after the inauguration. It cost around ₹5 lakh and was completed around a month ago.Also Read: Farmers’ protest: Union minister Sanjeev Balyan chairs meet on Jat outreachRamsakal Yadav, a senior official at the Varanasi Nagar Nigam, said this was the first toilet for transgender persons in Uttar Pradesh. He added that there was a plan to make four toilets for the transgender community in different parts of the city.It is easy to find a community toilet for men and women in the city. But there was a dearth of a toilet for transgender people. So a transgender-only toilet was built, said Gaurang Rathi, Varanasi municipal commissioner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/transgenderonly-toilet-opened-in-varanasi-it-is-up-s-first-101613622741260.html
18-02-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Told they cannot get married, interfaith couple attempts suicide||An interfaith couple from Uttar Pradesh’s Hardoi is struggling for their lives after they consumed some poisonous substance outside the Allahabad high court when they were told they cannot apply for a court marriage because of the state’s new anti-conversion ordinance, police said.Vinod Kumar, a local police officer, said the couple has been hospitalised and their condition is reported to be serious. He added their kin have been informed.The couple, aged 24 and 28, had left their homes around a week back to get married. The woman’s family has filed an abduction case against the man.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-told-they-cannot-get-married-interfaith-couple-attempts-suicide-101613619544557.html
18-02-2021||Kolkata||West Bengal minister injured in bomb attack rushed to Kolkata hospital||West Bengal minister Zakir Hossain, who sustained severe injuries in an attack with crude bombs in Murshidabad district last night was rushed to a state-run multispecialty hospital in Kolkata early on Thursday.“Hossain was shifted to Kolkata by road, early on Thursday morning. He was admitted to the trauma care center at SSKM hospital. His condition was stable. He has multiple injuries on his left side,” said AK Bera, medical superintendent and vice-principal of Murshidabad Medical College and Hospital.Unidentified assailants hurled crude bombs at Hossain, the deputy labour minister in the Trinamool Congress government in the state, outside the Nimtita railway station in Murshidabad around 9:45 pm on Wednesday. No one was arrested at the time of the writing of the report. At least 17 persons, including Hossain, were injured in the attack. The victims were initially rushed to a state-run hospital at Jangipur, before 12 of them were referred to the Murshidabad Medical College and Hospital.Hospital authorities said that at least five others were referred to a hospital in Kolkata after their condition deteriorated. While two have their legs ripped off, one has lost his hand.Also Read: Will raise farmer issues in West Bengal, says Tikait“A special team has been formed to crack the case. No one has been arrested so far. Some people have been detained for questioning,” said a senior police official.As the incident took place on the platform of Nimtita railway station, railway authorities changed the route of at least one train soon after the incident. Later services were normalized.This is the first incident of an attack on a Bengal minister in recent years. A huge police contingent was rushed to the spot. Hossain, who was earlier in the Congress joined the TMC and won the Jangipur assembly seat in 2016.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/west-bengal-minister-injured-in-bomb-attack-rushed-to-kolkata-hospital-101613619022998.html
18-02-2021||Lucknow||Highways in UP to have solar lights, speed cams for average speed prosecution||Solar lights and speed cameras will be installed along all the national and state highways in Uttar Pradesh with a view to curb road accidents, said a state official. The official added that the maintenance cost of solar lights on toll roads is included in the toll fee.“The maximum speed limit must be fixed between two toll booths on the national highways and vehicles taking less average time than the fixed limit should be fined as is done on the Agra-Lucknow Expressway,” UP chief secretary Rajendra Kumar Tiwari said. This system is referred to as the Average Speed Prosecution regime and is followed on long-distance highways worldwide.Tiwari also told officials that road construction agencies must ensure that speed signs are put up as specified. He issued these directions to the departments concerned on Wednesday while presiding over a high-level meeting of the State Road Safety Fund. He added that bridges needing repair or reconstruction should be identified and work should be started accordingly as per the specifications.Also Read: Tied with dupatta, 3 girls found unconscious in Uttar Pradesh field; 2 deadAdditional chief secretary (home) Avanish Kumar Awasthi, ACS (planning) Kumar Kamlesh, ACS (finance) Radha Chauhan, principal secretary (PWD) Nitin Ramesh Gokran and principal secretary (transport) Rajesh Singh were among those present in the meeting. Transport commissioner Dheeraj Sahu briefed the meeting of the measures being taken for road safety in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/highways-in-up-to-have-solar-lights-speed-cams-for-average-speed-prosecution-101613617793208.html
18-02-2021||Delhi||Delhi AQI remains in very poor zone, slight improvement likely during the day||Delhi’s air quality continued to remain in the very poor zone on Thursday, with the hourly average air quality index at 7 am being 312.Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) recordings show that the overall AQI of Delhi a day ago was 324, in the very poor zone.An AQI between 0-50 is marked good, 51-100 is satisfactory, 101- 200 is moderate, 201- 300 is poor, 301-400 is very poor and 401-500 is considered severe.India Meteorological Department (IMD) scientists have forecast that the winds will remain calm in the early morning hours through the week, which will lead to the deterioration of the air quality.Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said that the air quality is likely to remain in the same range with no significant deterioration forecast.“During the day, as the sun comes up, the air quality will improve slightly,” Srivastava said.A layer of dense fog has enveloped the national Capital in the mornings, leading to a decreased visibility.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-aqi-remains-in-very-poor-zone-slight-improvement-likely-during-the-day-101613617144533.html
18-02-2021||Lucknow||No invite to BJP leaders for any function till farm laws scrapped: UP panchayat||A panchayat of farmers held at the Bharatiya Kisan Union’s (BKU) headquarters in Sisauli (Muzaffarnagar) appealed to people to not invite Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders to any family function or programme till the prevailing deadlock between farmers and government ends. Meanwhile, a meeting of BJP MPs and MLAs of western UP was held at the residence of union minister Sanjeev Baliyan in Muzaffarnagar; they resolved to approach Khaps and farmers to brief them about the three new farm laws and to get their feedback and concerns. The directive given by BKU chief Naresh Tikait in the Sisauli meeting is likely to discomfit the BJP, which has been facing a tough time in the region due to the ongoing farmers’ movement. Also Read | Farmers’ protest: Delhi borders closed, traffic diverted to avoid jamsChaudhary Digamber Singh, state president of BKU’s youth wing, told HT that BKU chief Naresh Tikait had advised people to not send “chitthi” ( invitations) to BJP leaders for any programme till the impasse ended. BKU’s district president in Muzaffarnagar Dheeraj Latiyan also confirmed this and explained, “ He said this to protect BJP leaders from possible harassment and misbehavior by people in the wake of the ongoing farmers’ movement”. The panchayat in Sisauli went on for over four hours in which different aspects of the movement and issue of no increase in sugarcane rate were discussed. Meanwhile, after the meeting, Baliyan said that the discussion was regarding the farmers’ movement. He said that they had decided to approach Khaps and farmers to brief them about the farm laws. “Reservations and doubts of farmers will be cleared and their feedback will be sent to senior leaders and government. If the laws have any flaws then they will be corrected,” he said, reiterating that the farmers didn’t explain what was wrong in the new laws. On being asked about the government’s readiness to bring some amendments, he said, “The farmer leaders didn’t mention anything about amendments. Their only demand is to ‘ repeal’ the laws.” The minister said that western UP only had gur ( jaggery) mandi and the state government had already exempted it from 2.5% mandi tax. Therefore, the agricultural produce market committee (APMC) had no impact here. Replying to a question about the dilution of Essential Commodities Act in the laws, which could encourage hoarding, he said, “We will give the government the feedback we receive and act as per the directions of the party”. Reacting to this, Digamber Singh said that it was too late for BJP leaders to have a dialogue with farmers. Latiyan said, “Instead of talking to farmers they should work on finding a solution to the issue. It would be better if they convince the government to repeal the farm laws.”Rashtriya Lok Dal’s regional president Chaudhary Yashbeer Singh said that farmers would not fall prey to such gimmicks because they were extremely annoyed “at the way the Prime Minister mocked farmers in Parliament and used objectionable words for the ongoing movement.” Besides, over 200 farmers had died so far and the BJP leaders had not said even a single word of condolence. They had rubbed salt in the farmers’ wounds by not increasing the rate of sugarcane in the past three years, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/no-invite-to-bjp-leaders-for-any-function-till-farm-laws-scrapped-up-panchayat-101613616965636.html
18-02-2021||Delhi||Farmers’ protest: Delhi borders closed, traffic diverted to avoid jams||Ghazipur, Tikri and Singhu borders continue to be blocked as farmers continue their agitation demanding withdrawal of the three farm laws. The Delhi Police have diverted the traffic that may possibly lead to heavy traffic jams in parts of the Capital during the peak travel hours. Delhi Traffic Police officers said Delhi and Ghaziabad are facing heavy traffic jams in peak hours as the Ghazipur-Ghaziabad (UP Gate) border has remained completely closed due to the ongoing agitation. All the six lanes of Delhi-Meerut, NH-9 and NH-24 are closed because of the UP Gate border blockade and vehicles entering Delhi from Ghaziabad are being diverted to the alternate border routes such as Anand Vihar, Surya Nagar, Apsara, Bhopra, Loni, Kondli, Chilla, New Ashok Nagar, DND, and Kalindi Kunj, they said.Also Read | A second toolkit was in works: Delhi PoliceHowever, NH-24 road is kept open for traffic going to Delhi from Ghaziabad through Ghazipur roundabout. So, motorists entering Delhi from Anand Vihar, Surya Nagar or Apsara border may take a right turn from the Ghazipur roundabout and take NH-24 road from there to move towards south and central Delhi via Sarai Kale Khan and the Ring Road.“Also, commuters can take Vikas Marg after taking a right turn from under the Patparganj Industrial Area flyover from Anand Vihar-Ghazipur road. No traffic is being allowed on Delhi-Meerut expressway while NH-9 is kept open only during morning and evening peak hours when traffic remain heavy,” a traffic police officer said.Apart from the UP Gate border, Singhu, Tikri, Saboli and Piau Maniyari borders are also closed. Traffic police officials said that Jharoda and Auchandi borders are opened only during morning and evening peak hours while Lampur, Safiabad, Singhu school and Pall toll tax borders are open for traffic.As traffic is expected to remain heavy on GT Karnal Road, Outer Ring Road and NH-44, the traffic police have asked motorists to avoid these routes and take the alternate or diverted routes.Chilla border between Noida and Delhi remains open on both sides.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/farmers-protest-delhi-borders-closed-traffic-diverted-to-avoid-jams-101613616004738.html
18-02-2021||Delhi||R-Day clashes: Car mechanic held, two swords recovered||A 30-year-old car air-conditioning mechanic from north-west Delhi’s Swaroop Nagar was arrested for swinging swords and dancing with the weapons at the Red Fort on Republic Day, acts that “motivated” protesters to cause “more mayhem” at the monument, the Delhi Police said on Wednesday.Pramod Kushwaha, deputy commissioner of police (special cell), said the accused, Maninder Singh, was arrested after being identified in a video that showed him wielding the two swords. “We have recovered the two 4.3-feet-long swords from his home,” said Kushwaha.The Red Fort was one of the epicentres of violence and vandalism on Republic Day after a tractor march planned by the farmers protesting against the three farm laws descended into chaos with the protesters clashing with the police at several locations in central, east Delhi and north-west Delhi, and a large group storming the Mughal-era fort.Three others have already been arrested in connection with the vandalism and violence at the Unesco World Heritage site. These include Deep Sidhu, an actor-turned-activist who was arrested on February 8, for allegedly instigating protesters at the monument and destroying property. Sidhu remains in police custody for interrogation.Sidhu was arrested after the Delhi Police announced a total reward of R6 lakh for information leading to the arrest of eight men, including Sidhu, gangster-turned-activist Lakha Sidhana and Jugraj Singh. The latter is accused of hoisting a religious and a farmers’ body flag at the Red Fort.Police teams are continuing to carry out raids in Punjab and Haryana to arrest Sidhana and Singh.Kushwaha said Singh was “radicalised” by watching various “provocative” videos on Facebook and was “motivated” by speeches made by leaders at the Singhu border, a protest site frequented by him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/rday-clashes-car-mechanic-held-two-swords-recovered-101613610688374.html
18-02-2021||Delhi||Man who ran a youtube local news channel found shot dead in Dwarka||A 34-year-old man who ran a YouTube channel for local news and also worked as a housekeeper in a housing society was found shot dead in a street in west Delhi’s Bharat Vihar, close to Dwarka, in the early hours of Wednesday, the police said.Santosh Meena, deputy commissioner of police (Dwarka), said prima facie it appeared to be a case of murder over personal enmity. “The crime doesn’t appear to have anything to do with his journalism,” said Meena.The case remained unsolved until Wednesday evening, the officer said, adding that multiple teams were put on the job to identify the killer.The DCP identified the dead man as Dalbir Singh, a resident of Bharat Vihar.“A little after midnight, someone noticed Singh lying injured on the road, a few metres from his home. His scooter was lying nearby,” said the officer.Believing him to be involved in a road mishap, his wife rushed him to a nearby hospital where even doctors believed he was involved in a vehicular accident. “We received a call from the hospital at 1.47 am. When we took a close look at the body, we found a gunshot wound to his left forehead. That is when we realised that it was a murder,” the officer said, adding that the autopsy report is yet to arrive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/man-who-ran-a-youtube-local-news-channel-found-shot-dead-in-dwarka-101613610581190.html
18-02-2021||Delhi||Chandni Chowk to be revamped by March-end||Work on the redevelopment of Chandni Chowk is likely to be completed by March 31, said officials of Shahjahanabad Redevelopment Corporation (SRDC), the agency which is overseeing the project.The project envisaged revamping the 1.3 km stretch between Red Fort and Fatehpuri mosque flanked by the Chandni Chowk market on both sides by making it a pedestrian-only zone, provide broad walkways, water ATMs, toilet complexes, and street furniture mimicking the Mughal-era architecture.Senior officials of the Public Works Department (PWD) said over 90% work was complete. They said currently “finishing touches” were being given and stone work was going on near Town Hall. A toilet complex near Fountain Chowk was also nearing completion, they said.PWD minister Satyendar Jain said the officials have been directed to complete the project within the stipulated deadline.The idea of the project first came up in 2004. In 2008, the chief minister Sheila Dikshit set up the Shahjanahabad Redevelopment Corporation as a nodal agency to oversee the implementation of the project by bringing all stakeholders on a common platform. It was launched in August 2018 by the AAP government and work began in December that year. The initial deadline was fixed at March 2020, but it was revised to March 2021 due to several delaying factors such as the Covid pandemic and the legal issues in removing encroachments, including some religious structures.Read more: Delhi Gymkhana to get govt administrator, rules NCLATGarima Gupta, managing director, SRDC, said the deadline of the project has been rescheduled to March-end this year. “The work is underway in full swing and we hope to complete it within the timeline. The deadline of the project has now been revised to March 31, 2021,” Gupta said.Explaining the reasons behind the delay, a PWD official who declined to be named said even though work resumed in June this year after the government began the unlock process after the nationwide Covid-induced lockdown, progress was slow due to shortage of labour. “Now the project is inching towards completion. We have completed over 90% work, which includes major construction works such as digging and shifting of utilities. Overhead wires have also been made underground and drains in the area are being fixed and beautified. We will complete the project by March 31, 2021,” the official said.PWD engineer-in-chief Shashi Kant conducted an inspection last week to review the progress of the project. He directed the officials to expedite work and finish it within the deadline.The corridor will strictly be a “no vehicle zone” during the daytime and only non-motorised vehicles such as rickshaws and e-rickshaws will be allowed to move on the stretch. However, loading and unloading of goods will be allowed during the night, officials said.Read more: Youth Congress activists protest in Delhi against fuel price hikeSanjay Bhargava, president Chandni Chowk Sarv Vyapar Mandal, said it is the maintenance of the redeveloped portion, which is required as it is being spoiled by encroachment. “Stretches that have been beautified on the corridor can be seen occupied by beggars, illegal vendors. The authorities should also take care of this problem of encroachment as it will only malign the beauty of the redeveloped areas,” Bhargava said.He said besides the remaining civil work, the agencies were yet to install CCTV cameras and streetlights.AGK Menon, a consultant with Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage (INTACH), said the project will improve shopping experience in the area. “There were practical problems that delayed the project. It should not be delayed further. Hopefully, it will be completed by the revised deadline,” Menon said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/chandni-chowk-to-be-revamped-by-marchend-101613611322869.html
18-02-2021||Chandigarh||Amid farm stir, Congress wins key local body polls in Punjab||Results of civic body elections in Punjab reflect the long shadow of the farmer’s protest with the state’s ruling Congress, which is opposed to the farm laws at the heart of the issue, winning a clear majority in six of the seven municipal corporations for which results were declared on Wednesday.In the last elections, conducted in 2015, it did not win a majority in any of the corporations that went for polls on Sunday. Elections to the state assembly are to be held in early 2022 and analysts see the Congress’s strong performance as a boost for the ruling party, which has been facing the headwinds of anti-incumbency.“The results are a prelude to the state polls scheduled in 2022. The reasons for this are its committed grassroot workers’ [reach] and historically it’s the single largest party and has an umbrella organisation character,” said Amanpreet Gill, a professor of political science in Khalsa college in Delhi.Results of the eighth municipal corporation, Mohali, will be announced on Thursday. The six where the Congress has won a majority are Bathinda, Hoshiarpur, Kapurthala, Abohar Batala and Pathankot. Neither party has won the majority in Moga.The Congress was also ahead of all other political parties in the majority of municipal councils and Notified Area Councils.Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh termed the results as a validation of his government’s policies and the rejection of anti-people and anti-farmer parties. The Shiromani Akali Dal’s Sukhbir Badal, in a Twitter message, thanked his party workers for fighting the polls and challenging the “corrupt” and “incompetent” government.In all, 2,302 wards across 117 civic bodies including eight municipal corporations went to polls on February 14. Results for 2,150 wards were announced on Wednesday. Of these, the Congress won 1,360 wards. The BJP, contesting alone (its long-term ally, the SAD broke up with it over the farm bills) won 50, compared to the 248 it did in 2015, when 2,044 wards went to the polls. SAD won 281 fewer than the 870 it did in 2015. The Aam Aadmi Party, which did not contest the last elections, won 60 and independents won 390, down from 624 last time.Read more: Punjab to have 9 more fast-track courts under Pocso ActState Congress chief, Sunil Jakhar, said, “Maintaining communal harmony would be the central plank of Congress government to steer the state on path of unprecedented growth, development and prosperity.”The analysts said the Congress’s strong performance should be seen in the context of the farm protests.Thousands of farmers have been protesting at Delhi’s borders for 84 days, seeking a repeal of the new farm laws, which they say will erode their bargaining power, weaken a system of assured prices, and leave them vulnerable to exploitation by big agri businesses.Read more: Punjab municipal polls highlights: AAP demands recounting of votes in JagraonThe government has maintained that the laws aim to ease restrictions on farm trade by setting up free markets, allow traders to stockpile large stocks of food for future sales and lay down a framework for contract farming.“We are prepared for a lone fight and we will be successful,” said a SAD spokesperson Daljeet Singh Cheema. BJP candidates were heckled during the campaign on account of the laws.The polls evoked a strong response, witnessing a 71% turnout; it was 78% in 2015.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/amid-farm-stir-congress-wins-key-local-body-polls-in-punjab-101613595221612.html
18-02-2021||Chandigarh||589 athletes to compete at national athletics meet in Chandigarh on Feb 21||After almost a decade, Chandigarh is going to host the National Cross Country Championship athletics meet on February 21 at ATS Golf Meadows in Dera Bassi. As many as 589 athletes from all over India will be competing at the championship. It is being organised by the Chandigarh Athletics Association (CAA) in association with UT sports department.Harjinder Singh, president of CAA, said, “The meet will be organised under the auspice of Athletics Federation of India (AFI). It will give athletes of various age groups a chance to compete and showcase their talent.” He added that the events will be held in four age categories including boys’ and girls’ (U-16, U-18 and U-20) and mens’ and womens’. Those competing in the U-20 and mens’ and womens’ categories can vie for the team championship title.Many former and current international athletes including Lalit Bhanot, Milkha Singh and Anju Bobby George will be witnessing the day-long event. The organisers said the meet will be held keeping in mind Covid protocols and spectators won’t be allowed at the venue. Fifteen technical officials from AFI will be officiating the event. The president added that 27 teams will be participating in the championship.Defending champions Services Sports Control Board and runner-ups Indian Railway team have confirmed their participation. For the first time, athletes from Ladakh will also be taking part.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/589-athletes-to-compete-at-national-athletics-meet-in-chandigarh-on-feb-21-101613595318127.html
18-02-2021||Chandigarh||Table tennis nationals: Manika, Sreeja through to semi-finals||Top seed Manika Batra moved into the semi-finals of the 82nd Senior National Table Tennis Championships at the Tau Devi Lal Indoor Stadium in Panchkula on Wednesday with an impressive 4-3 win over Archana Kamath.Manika will take on Sreeja Akula, who beat Prapti Sen 4-3, in another tight match. Takeme Sarkar of the Railways beat Pooja Sahasrabudhe to book her berth in the semi-finals.PSPB’s Reeth Rishy also made it to the semi-finals by defeating Kaushani Nath.In the pre-quarterfinals, defending champion and second seed Sutirtha Mukherjee lost to Rishya 3-4.Earlier in the day, three other seeds tumbled in the round of 32. Third seed Ayhika lost to Pooja Sahasrabudhe 4-2; 14th seed Madhurika Patkar went down to Poymantee Baisya 3-4; and former national champion Ankita Das was beaten by seventh seed Kaushani Nath.Womens’ singlesresultsQuarter-finals: Manika Batra beat Archana Kamath 13-11, 11-9, 4-11, 5-11, 9-11, 11-8, 11-4; Akula Sreeja beat Prapti Sen 7-11, 11-13, 11-8, 11-7, 7-11, 11-6, 11-7; Takeme Sarkar beat Pooja Sahasrabudhe 11-8, 9-11, 1-11, 11-9, 11-8, 11-9; Reeth Rishya beat Kaushani Nath 11-2, 6-11, 9-11, 11-7, 11-7, 11-9.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/table-tennis-nationals-manika-sreeja-through-to-semifinals-101613595243341.html
18-02-2021||Chandigarh||Organ Donation: Brain-dead Mohali man gives new lease of life to two||Before he passed away, a 55-year-old Mohali resident gave a new lease of life to two terminally-ill kidney patients, at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER).On January 30, Kuldeep Singh was on his way home after work, when he was hit by a speeding two-wheeler coming from the wrong side, leaving him with grievous head injuries.He was rushed to the Kharar civil hospital from where he was admitted to PGIMER the next day. But, he succumbed to his injuries and was declared brain dead on February 8.His wife Manjit Kaur and two sons, Maninder and Manpreet, gave their consent for the organ donation. This has come as a boon to a 31-year-old woman from Mauli Jagran and a 62-year-old woman from Mohali, both terminally ill renal failure patients.Vipin Koushal, nodal officer, Regional Organ and Tissue Transplant Organisation, PGIMER said, “I think you develop a different level of respect for the donor family and their spirit of unconditional love amid their own pain. There cannot be better teaching in humanity than organ donation. Hope their sacrifice inspires others to follow in their footsteps.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/organ-donation-brain-dead-mohali-man-gives-new-lease-of-life-to-two-101613594584477.html
18-02-2021||Chandigarh||Cycle4Change challenge: Chandigarh shortlisted for second round||Chandigarh has become one of the 25 cities in India shortlisted for the second stage of the nation-wide Cycle4Change challenge, organised under the Smart Cities Mission.As many as 107 cities had participated in the challenge aimed at making cities cycling-friendly post-Covid. Among them, 41 cities had given their proposal and strategy presentation for evaluation by the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs.The Chandigarh Smart City Limited (CSCL) had initiated strategic action plans based on three broad principles of social media engagement, community involvement and implementation of pilot intervention at Sukhna Lake and in Sector 36 to promote cycling.Several activities were taken up in the last six months such as free cycle repair workshop, online perception survey, pilot launch of the public bicycle sharing system (PBSS), cycle rallies, cycle-themed photo and video competitions, and lighting of cycle tracks among other initiatives.CSCL also initiated the Draft Bicycling Plan for the city to be taken up by the Healthy Street Cell and to be finalised by the apex committee headed by the Chandigarh municipal commissioner. Now, the city is further preparing for the second round to give a presentation to the jury to get selected among 11 cities to receive a scale up support of ₹1 crore.The CSCL has already constructed a dedicated 200-km cycle track in the city and more will be constructed to connect the periphery and the city’s industrial areas. Chandigarh is also gearing up for the launch of the first phase of the PBSS with 1,250 bicycles at 155 docking stations spread across the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cycle4change-challenge-chandigarh-shortlisted-for-second-round-101613594583247.html
18-02-2021||Other||Ambala councillor booked for murder, husband held||The police arrested the husband of the newly-elected councillor from the Haryana Democratic Front (HDF) Rubi Sauda on Wednesday for his alleged involvement in the murder of a 27-year-old in Ambala.The accused was identified as Rishi, and the deceased was identified Arun, alias Annu. The police had earlier booked Sauda and her nine family members on charges of murder and attempt to murder on Tuesday night.The FIR comes after a resident of Govardhan Nagar, Deepak, alleged that the councillor’s family members had attacked his kin after he had objected to them feeding the pigs in the middle of the road. This had led to an argument between the families, that had turned into a violent quarrel with one dead and four injured.“We had a heated argument, but my father pleaded for peace and we left for home. Later, Rishi along with 8-10 men came with weapons and the three brothers, Rishi, Lucky and Rimpi, attacked my brother Arun. Me and my father were also injured. Sauda was also holding a stick and threatened dire consequences,” he said in his police statement.Sources said that Sauda’s family had political rivalry with the complainant’s side, who had supported the Bharatiya Janata Party’s ally Jannayak Janata Party in the MC elections in December last year.Station in-charge of Baldev Nagar, Hamir Singh, said that Rishi was arrested. Deepak’s father was undergoing treatment at GMCH, Sector 32, he said.“Arun’s autopsy was conducted earlier in the day and the body was handed over to the family. The investigation is going on and the rest of the accused are expected to be arrested soon,” Singh added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ambala-councillor-booked-for-murder-husband-held-101613594464688.html
18-02-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University senate polls: HC reserves order on plea of ex-senators||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Wednesday reserved its order on a plea of seven former Panjab University senators, who had moved HC in December, seeking directions to the varsity to hold senate elections. The matter has been heard by the bench of justice Fateh Deep Singh. The plea alleges that the political party at the Centre and people affiliated with it, were deliberately delaying the polls. On the other hand, PU has told court that it has initiated process to hold senate elections. The varsity has also told HC that Vice-President M Venkaiah Naidu, who is the varsity’s chancellor, has constituted a high level committee of experts to examine the varsity’s present governing structure. PU is governed by a 91-member senate, the elections of which are pending since August last year. The senate polls were postponed twice last year by vice-chancellor Raj Kumar amid the Covid pandemic. The term of the PU senate ended on October 31 and the varsity is currently functioning without a governing body.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panjab-university-senate-polls-hc-reserves-order-on-plea-of-exsenators-101613594463256.html
18-02-2021||Chandigarh||Farmers’ stir: Khaps agree to follow Samyukt Kisan Morcha’s lead||Khap representatives from Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi and Rajasthan unanimously decided to follow the lead of Samyukta Kisan Morcha, a united front of around 40 farmers’ unions, with regards to the stir against the three farm laws on Wednesday. Hundreds of representatives, including those from prominent khaps such as Nandal, Malik, Dalal, Dahiya, Hooda, and Ahlawat, attended the meeting. Khap-84 head, Hardeep Singh Ahlawat, who chaired the meeting, said, “The representatives agreed to support all decisions taken by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha pertaining to intensifying the stir and starting talks with the Centre to end the deadlock.” Khaps condemn Dalal’s statement on farmers’ deaths While condemning Haryana agriculture minister JP Dalal’s controversial statement on farmers’ death on the Delhi borders, the khap bodies said the minister will be boycotted. On February 13, Dalal had said the farmers who lost their lives during the protests would have died even if they had stayed back on their fields.Ahlawat said the minister had hurt the farming community’s sentiments. “How can a minister laugh at farmers’ death? The khaps have decided to disassociate themselves from the minister as such people can only defame the community. We will not hold any talks with Dalal in future,” he said.Dismissing rumours that the khap was willing to intermediate between the protesters and government, Ahlwat said, “ Such rumours are being spread to weaken the agitation. The khaps firmly stand with the Samyukta Kisan Morcha.” Independent MLA from Dadri, Sombir Sangwan, who also heads the Sangwan Khap said they will also participate in the ‘rail roko’ stir from noon to 4pm. “We will return only when the government repeals the three farm laws. Farmers are fighting for legitimate rights. The government should guarantee them minimum support price,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farmers-stir-khaps-agree-to-follow-samyukt-kisan-morcha-s-lead-101613594343237.html
18-02-2021||Chandigarh||65-year-old Chandigarh woman loses gold bangles after accepting lift||A 65-year-old woman lost her gold bangles to a gang of thieves, who offered to drop her home, the police said on Wednesday.Kailash Rani, who stays in Sector 44, told the police that she was returning home on February 16 from Laxmi Narayan temple, when a woman sitting in the rear seat of a white car pulled her arm urging her to sit in the vehicle, saying that she too stayed in the same lane as her. Kailash said another girl standing outside also got in, while a man was driving.The accused then dropped her near the market and drove away. When Kailash reached her house, she found her gold bangles were missing.A case under Section 379 (theft) of the Indian Penal Code was registered. Police are scanning the CCTV footage to identify the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/65yearold-chandigarh-woman-loses-gold-bangles-after-accepting-lift-101613594103228.html
18-02-2021||Chandigarh||Mustard seed prices soar in Haryana, fetch ₹1500/quintal over MSP||Mustard seed growers in Haryana are elated as the price of their produce has crossed the minimum support price. As per reports from mandis in northern districts where harvesting begins early, the price of yellow mustard (desi sarson), climbed to ₹6,500 per quintal and the price of black or hybrid mustard seeds has increased to around ₹5,800 per quintal.However, the minimum support price (MSP) for this staple oilseed, is fixed at ₹4,650. Government agencies will begin procurement in April.In the absence of government agencies, private traders are purchasing the seeds in open auctions.“I had cultivated mustard over four acres this year. The seeds were sold for ₹5,680 per quintal against the MSP of ₹4,650,” said Mohan Lal, who sold his produce at a mandi in Kurukshetra. However, farmers said the per acre yield of mustard was underwhelming at around 6-7 quintals.Traders say the hike in prices can be attributed to increased demand for mustard oil, the price of which has touched ₹160 per litre and may soar further.“This is for the first time in the several years that the price of mustard seeds has crossed the ₹6,000-mark,”said Naresh Kumar, a commission agent at Ladwa grain market.As per officials from the state agriculture department, the prices of mustard seeds have increased due to reduction in area under mustard cultivation after many farmers failed to get MSP after the government made registration mandatory on the Meri Fasal Mera Byora (MFMB) portal. “Last year, I had to sell mustard cultivated on six acres below MSP as government agencies imposed restrictions on procurement, which is why this year I only sowed mustard over two acres,” said Praveen Kumar, a farmer.In 2019, the government procured around 5.19 lakh tones of mustard from farmers who had registered themselves on the MFMB portal. In 2020, the government had procured only 4.53 lakh tonnes of mustard seed on MSP..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mustard-seed-prices-soar-in-haryana-fetch-1500-quintal-over-msp-101613593623213.html
18-02-2021||Other||Civic polls in Punjab: Congress wins hands down in Mohali||The Congress secured clear majority in five of the seven municipal councils in Mohali, while the contest in the remaining two ended in a hung house.Winning comfortably in Kurali and Banur, the party also snatched Dera Bassi, Zirakpur and Lalru – all bastions of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD).The Congress also bagged the most seats in Kharar, but couldn’t dominate the House; while in Nayagaon, SAD led the tally, also without majority, causing a hung house in both civic bodies.In all, the grand old party was victorious on 85 of the 145 seats in the seven municipalities. SAD won on 34 seats, while the Bharatiya Janata Party was restricted to five and the Aam Aadmi Party managed to win on only one.Stronghold of late Akali minister Captain Kanwaljit Singh and then SAD MLA NK Sharma, Dera Bassi constituency didn’t see the party lose any MC election for 18 years in Zirakpur, and 10 years in Dera Bassi and Lalru, until the Congress on Wednesday wrested 48 of the 67 seats in the three towns.Even, in Banur and Kurali, Congress won with clear majority, securing 21 of 30 seats.ZirakpurThe largest municipality among the seven and traditionally a fiefdom of SAD, Zirakpur chose Congress on 23 of the 31 seats and Akali Dal on eight, while BJP and AAP drew a blank.The Zirakpur MC was formed in 2000 and saw its first elections in 2003, when NK Sharma became its president. He was re-elected in 2008 and resigned in 2012 on becoming the local MLA, when his close aide Kulwinder Singh Sohi took the reins of the post, never allowing the Congress to make its presence felt in the area. Since 2015, the MC here had 28 councillors from the SAD-BJP combine, while three were independents.Lalru Dethroning SAD, which ruled Lalru for 10 years, Congress won on 12 of the 17 seats, while two seats went to SAD and three to independents. For the past five years, the Lalru MC House had only SAD-BJP councillors. This time, Congress and SAD had fielded candidates from all wards, AAP 15 and the BJP only seven.Dera BassiSnatching the municipality from SAD after 10 years, Congress bagged 13 of the total 19 seats, while SAD was restricted to three. Independents won on two seats and BJP managed to secure one seat, while AAP failed to open its account. In the last term, all 19 seats were won by the SAD-BJP alliance. While Congress and SAD had contested these elections on all 19 seats, BJP fielded 14 candidates, AAP 18 and BSP had one candidate in fray. BanurIn Banur, which was once the stronghold of SAD under late Captain Kanwaljit Singh, the Akali Dal managed to win on only one seat, while the remaining 12 went to Congress. SAD had fielded eight candidates, while Congress contested from all seats. Even AAP had contested from seven wards, but was not picked anywhere. BJP did not even enter the fray here. In the last term, Congress had six members in the House, SAD four, three were independents and one member was from BJP.KuraliKurali voted for Congress on nine of the 17 seats. Winning five seats, independent candidates here bagged more seats than the SAD (2) and BJP (1). For the past one decade, SAD was ruling the House. In 2015, SAD-BJP had won nine seats, Congress six and two were won by independents, who later joined SAD. Nayagaon It’s only in Nayagaon where SAD managed to save face by securing 10 of the total 21 seats, yet could not secure a majority. Here, Congress won on six seats, while three went to BJP and two to independents. Nayagaon, which falls under the Kharar assembly constituency, is represented by AAP MLA Kanwar Sandhu. Congress and SAD fielded all candidates, while BJP contested from 15 wards and AAP from seven. In the last term, SAD ruled the council with only its councillors in the House.KhararCongress secured the most seats in Kharar, winning in 10 of the 27 wards, but could not manage a majority, leading to a hung house just like in Nayagaon. Here, eight independents won, the most in all seven councils, while SAD also clinched eight seats and one went to AAP. According to Congress, they have the support of the eight independents, who will help elect a president from the party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/civic-polls-in-punjab-congress-wins-hands-down-in-mohali-101613593504284.html
18-02-2021||Chandigarh||HC initiates contempt proceedings against Haryana CJM for ‘disobeying order’||The Punjab and Haryana high court has initiated contempt proceedings against a Haryana chief judicial magistrate, observing that prime facie he had violated court orders, which warranted disciplinary action.The high court bench of justice Manoj Bajaj, while seeking response from Yamunanagar chief judicial magistrate (CJM) Arvind Kumar observed that the officer passed the order in question despite the HC directions being ‘absolutely clear and unambiguous’.The CJM, in his January 13 order, had dismissed the plea of one Puran Chand Sharma, who upon the HC’s directions had approached the CJM court seeking release of the ₹1.1 lakh deposited by him in a criminal case. The judicial officer dismissed the plea for release of money observing that the February 2014 order, in which Sharma was asked to deposit the money ‘carried prohibition against the release of the amount till the disposal of the case, instead of trial’.Justice Bajaj observed that after a court order, Sharma had deposited the requisite amount on March 3, 2014 with the trial court and was granted bail. As per conditions imposed at the time, it was ordered that the amount deposited would be finally adjusted against the claim of the complainant against the petitioner (Sharma), if any, in civil litigation. The trial ended with Sharma’s acquittal and thereafter, Sharma moved an application before the high court for directions to the CJM court to release the deposited amount. Acting on the same, the high court on November 6, 2020 had ordered that the amount deposited by the petitioner be refunded to him. However, the CJM dismissed the plea filed by Sharma for release of the said amount.“ ..prima facie this court is of the opinion that the chief judicial magistrate, Yamunanagar at Jagadhri, while passing the impugned order has not only shown judicial indiscipline warranting disciplinary action, but has deliberately and wilfully disobeyed the orders of this Court and this amounts to contempt of Court,” justice Bajaj observed, issuing notice of motion on the plea for February 25.The bench further observed that even though notices were yet to be served to Sharma against the appeal filed in that acquittal case, the trial court declined the prayer compelling him to seek clarification or direction from the high court. Apart from it, the condition contained in the February 2014 order was imposed in a pre-arrest bail matter and could not have been stretched beyond the conclusion of the trial, the bench added.Sharma had to deposit the said money in securing a pre-arrest bail in a case of criminal intimidation among others charges registered at police station in Yamunanagar on September 16, 2012.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-initiates-contempt-proceedings-against-haryana-cjm-for-disobeying-order-101613593022897.html
18-02-2021||Chandigarh||Rohtak wrestling arena firing: Accused coach murdered victims one by one||The accused coach, who had on February 12 shot dead six people, including a three-year-old boy, on Wednesday said he had called the victims one by one to two rooms on the first floor of the gymnasium at Jat Collage. The accused, Sukhvinder, a National Institute of Sports (NIS)-certified coach, told the special investigation team (SIT) that he had been acting alone. Rohtak wrestling arena firing: Toll rises to six as 3-year-old succumbsAn SIT member, on condition of anonymity, said, “Sukhvinder first killed coach Pradeep Malik. He then proceeded to kill coaches Manoj Kumar and Satish Dalal, Manoj’s wife Sakshi and national-level wrestler Pooja.He killed the three coaches in one room and the two women in another and locked the gates.” “After shooting five people dead, Sukhvinder brought Manoj and Sakshi’s three-year-old son, who had been playing with his cousin on the ground floor, to the room where his mother and Pooja were lying dead and shot at his head,” the official said. “He then called coach Amarjeet Singh outside Maharani Kishori Jat Kanya Mahavidyalaya (MKJK) College, nearly 800 metres away from the wrestling arena, and shot at him, the official said. Rohtak wrestling arena firing: Day on, accused nabbed from DelhiAmarjeet, who was injured in the firing, is still undergoing treatment at Medanta Hospital in Gurugram. The murdered couple’s three-year-old son, who was grievously injured succumbed to his injuries at the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS) on February 16, five days after he was shot.Revenge primary motive “Sukhvinder said he plotted the killings after Manoj and the other coaches asked him to leave the wrestling arena on February 14 after two women players filed complaints against him. We are probing the case from every angle,” the senior official said.Manoj’s younger brother, Pramoj Malik, said his nephew was playing with his five-year-old daughter when Sukhvinder picked him up and told him that his mother was calling him. “He also asked my daughter to come upstairs but she refused. Our cousin, Vishal, was also there and when he called Sukhvinder to ask about Manoj’s whereabouts, he told him that Manoj was ‘lying on the first floor’. We will meet Rohtak superintendent of police Rahul Sharma to demand a thorough probe of the case. We want to know how the accused managed to flee to Delhi after committing the crime,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rohtak-wrestling-arena-firing-accused-coach-murdered-victims-one-by-one-101613592423519.html
18-02-2021||Other||Clean sweep for Congress in all six municipal councils of Ludhiana||The Congress emerged a clear winner as the election commission, on Wednesday, announced the results for six municipal councils in Ludhiana that went to the polls on February 14. The party’s candidates won by huge margins on most seats, even as the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) alleged discrepancies in counting at some places.In all, the grand old party bagged 81 out of the total 112 seats in the six municipal councils of Khanna, Jagraon, Samrala, Raikot, Doraha and Payal. It also emerged victorious in ward number 8 of Mullanpur Dakha nagar panchayat, where bypolls were held. It, however, lost to Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) in the bypoll at ward number 6 of Sahnewal nagar panchayat.The SAD remained the first runner up in the district, winning 15 seats in all. It won six seats in Khanna, five in Samrala, two in Doraha and one in Payal. The party failed to bag any seat in Raikot. The party had fielded 86 candidates in all. The Bharatiya Janata Party, meanwhile, was reduced to just two seats in the entire district. Its two winning candidates were from the Khanna municipal council. The party had fielded only 45 candidates in view of the growing hostility against it in the backdrop of the farm protests on Delhi borders. A large number of turncoat leaders from BJP, in fact, fought on SAD tickets. It is for the first time in several years that the SAD and BJP fought the elections separately in Punjab. It is pertinent to mention that the SAD had severed ties with the BJP last year, over the issue of farm laws. AAP won two seats in Khanna and one in Doraha but failed to add any seat to its kitty from the other municipal councils. While the AAP had fielded candidates on 109 seats, Bahujan Samaj Party was vying for 13 seats. The BSP did not win a single seat. As many as 123 independents had also fought the election, of which 11 emerged victorious. Of these, four independents were from Khanna, five from Jagraon and one each from Doraha and Payal. AAP alleges discrepancies in countingMeanwhile, the AAP alleged discrepancies in the counting process in Jagraon and Raikot. The party staged protests and blocked the Raikot main road and National Highway-5 near Jagraon for over two hours, seeking recounting of votes. The protest was still going on outside the counting centre in Jagraon at the time of filing of this report.SAD’s Jagraon unit president Gurcharan Singh Grewal said, “The Congress party used every unethical tactic to threaten our candidates, but our 16 candidates still came out victorious. Our councillors will continue to serve the public and we will actively perform the duties of opposition in the municipal councils.”Meanwhile, deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma said the counting remained largely peaceful and there was no report of any untoward incident from any part of the district.The counting had begun around 9am and as soon as the results were declared, Congress supporters burst into celebrations, and danced to the beats of dhols and took out victory rallies. Some of the vehicles, used by the party during its road show, were seen bearing the flags of farmers union.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/clean-sweep-for-congress-in-all-six-municipal-councils-of-ludhiana-101613590863201.html
18-02-2021||Bangalore||Fresh demand for reservation by Vokkaligas add to CM Yediyurappa’s challenges||The Vokkaliga community, led by influential seers and former bureaucrats, on Wednesday demanded an increase in reservation allocations from the B S Yediyurappa-led Karnataka government.The demand from the Vokkaliga community adds to the piling reservation-related requests from various communities in the state.“A meeting was held under the aegis of Swami Nirmalananda and several others in Bengaluru demanding that a board be created with a corpus and reservation be increased to provide opportunities for the community,” said a person aware of the developments, requesting anonymity.The forum also demanded that reservation be provided for less fortunate members of the community living in urban areas like Bengaluru.The forum, in a statement on Wednesday, said that there were over 115 sub-sects within the community who have been deprived of benefits as they were left out of the other backward classes list.The leaders of the campaign vowed to fight till their demands were met and constituted two bodies--Vokkaliga Reservation Struggle Committee and State Vokkaliga Development Board.The demands come at a time when Yediyurappa finds himself cornered over the rising number of requests for increasing reservation and change of category among others.Other dominant and politically influential communities like Panchamsali Lingayats, Kurubas and Valmikis among others have made clarion calls for increase in reservation.The chief minister has given assurances to look into demands that have raised hope among members of various communities to use the opportunity to make fresh demands.Already hit by dissent and cash-crunch ahead of the state budget, 77-year-old Yediyurappa continues to brave the relentless challenges that threaten his term as chief minister.Vokkaligas are a dominant community and can be found in large numbers in southern Karnataka. The Janata Dal (Secular) or JD(S) enjoys the backing of the community.Yediyurappa has gone out of his way to make assurances, which he may not be able to keep, in the hope to consolidate support from communities that back the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and those seen backing others to help its chances of returning to power in 2023.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/fresh-demand-for-reservation-by-vokkaligas-add-to-cm-yediyurappa-s-challenges-101613589086351.html
18-02-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra Congress, BJP gear up for protests across state||The Congress has announced that it will take to the streets against the Central government over hike in fuel prices, while the Bharatiya Janata party (BJP) is planning a jail bharo agitation against state government on February 24 over the disconnection of power for non-payment of bills in the state.State Congress chief Nana Patole said the party will announce a statewide protest against fuel and gas prices hike after the meeting of their parliamentary board next week. “Modi had attacked the previous Manmohan Singh government for fuel price hike and assured the people of the country of reducing the price once elected to power. Today, petrol and diesel prices have touched ₹96 and ₹86 for one litre respectively, while domestic gas cylinder costs ₹800,” he said.Patole said the Modi government has been acting in the interest of a few select industrialists, by hurting the interest of the general public. “Despite the fall in crude oil prices, retail prices of fuel are on the rise every day. If international crude oil prices are considered, petrol should be sold at ₹35 for one litre in the country. Petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan has expressed his helplessness in Rajya Sabha over rising prices,” he said.The state Congress chief also questioned why celebrities such as Amitabh Bachchan and Akshay Kumar are silent even after fuel prices skyrocketing. “When petrol price touched ₹70 a litre during Manmohan Singh government’s tenure, Bachchan and Kumar had expressed their anger on social media. Why are they silent now? Are they afraid of the Modi government?” he questioned.On the other hand, the BJP took on the state government for power disconnection move undertaken by the state discom for non-payment of bills by domestic consumers. Former energy minister and BJP leader Chandrashekhar Bawankule said the party would stage a state-wide jail bharo protest if their demands are not met. Their demands include directions to stop the disconnection drive, rectification of excessive bills issued during the lockdown, and free electricity to consumers with usage of less than 100 units.“Government authorities have started disconnecting electricity supply to more than 6 million farmers and domestic consumers for non-payment of bills. Farmers and the common people are not in position to pay the bills owing to crop loss and Covid-19 lockdown. The state had announced to give free electricity to consumers with less than 100 unit usage, but has failed to keep the promise. The government also backtracked on its promise to rectify excessive bills issued during lockdown. We will stage unprecedented jail bharo if the government does not act immediately,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-congress-bjp-gear-up-for-protests-across-state-101613590444158.html
18-02-2021||Other||Bhiwandi building collapse victims’ kin to get ₹3 lakh compensation||Chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday announced a compensation of ₹3 lakh from the CM Relief Fund to the families of victims of the Jilani building collapse. On September 22, 2020, 38 people were killed and 25 others injured after Jilani building at Patel Compound, Dhamankar Naka, Bhiwandi collapsed. This marked the highest toll due to a building collapse in Bhiwandi. Rescue operations at the collapse site continued for more than 80 hours with the help of a team of over 100 personnel. “The CM has sanctioned ₹3 lakh to each of the 38 victims’ families who died in the Jilani building collapse. The CM has sanctioned ₹1.14 crore for this from the CM’s relief funds,” read a statement released by the CM’s office. Nilopar Mohammad Ali Shaikh, 34, who lost her sister Shabnam Mohammad Ali Shaikh, 28, in the collapse, said, “My mother, who was injured in the incident, lives with me now. She used to live with Shabnam in the building. She is still traumatised and has health issues. Her blood pressure is not normal. We have to give her medicines and treatment on time. The money if given will help us a lot.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bhiwandi-building-collapse-victims-kin-to-get-3-lakh-compensation-101613590443021.html
18-02-2021||Mumbai||Burglars steal ornaments worth ₹2.82 core from Mumbai jewellery shop, take CCTV footage||Unidentified thieves burgled a jewellery shop at Kalachowki and stolen over 5kg of gold and 9kg of silver ornaments worth ₹2.82 crore. The accused also took the DVR that was recording the CCTV footage to ensure that they could not be identified.According to Kalachowki police, a morning walker on Monday spotted the partially-opened shutter of Mangal Jewellers in Ambewadi, Kalachowki and informed another passer-by, who happened to be a friend of the store owner. “The owner rushed to the shop and discovered that burglars had broken the locks of the shutter and the internal iron door and had stolen all the jewellery,” said an officer from Kalachowki police station.The thieves had also tried to break open the safe vault that contained more jewellery but were unable to do so.“The accused also took away the DVR of the CCTV installed inside the shop, to make it difficult for police to identify them. The accused were smart and climbed on the electric pole opposite the shop and broke its bulb to ensure darkness around the shop so that they could not be spotted by anyone,” said Gokulsingh Patil, senior inspector of Kalachowki police station.Police have registered a case under sections 380 (theft) and 457 (night housebreaking) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and are investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/burglars-steal-ornaments-worth-2-82-core-from-mumbai-jewellery-shop-take-cctv-footage-101613590322854.html
18-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Actor’s wife, mother-in-law booked for abetting his suicide||Goregaon police on Wednesday booked the wife and mother-in-law of an actor, who died by suicide, on charges of abetment. Police said the actor left behind a suicide note on his Facebook account as well as a video message, accusing his wife and mother-in-law of torturing him. The mother-daughter duo was booked on the basis of a complaint lodged by the father of the deceased. However, no arrest has been made so far.“We are at present recording statements of his family members, including his wife and mother-in-law,” said an officer from the Goregaon police station. The officer said they would take action against the two women after preliminary investigation.The police on Monday registered a case of accidental death after the actor was found dead in his Goregaon apartment. On Tuesday, the police handed over the body to his parents and brother who have taken his body to Punjab for performing last rites.The actor, in his suicide note, said he was being harassed by his wife and mother-in-law and that his confidence had been shattered. However, he also mentioned that no action should be taken against his wife.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-actor-s-wife-mother-in-law-booked-for-abetting-his-suicide-101613590262949.html
18-02-2021||Mumbai||3 private hospitals in Mumbai start vaccinating their staff||Three private hospitals in the city started vaccinating their own healthcare workers (HCWs) on Wednesday. In addition to the 23 centres at government hospitals and Covid-19 jumbo facilities, Jaslok, Dr LH Hiranandani and Sir HN Reliance Foundation Hospitals are administering vaccines to their staff. Public hospital Cama and Albless also started a vaccination centre.The three private hospitals are among 20 private hospitals shortlisted by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to join the vaccination drive. Sixteen more private hospitals are expected to set up vaccination centres for their healthcare staff. All 20 will continue to function as vaccination centres once BMC enters the third phase of the drive, in which senior citizens and those in the general public with comorbidities will be inoculated. About 3 million Mumbaiites will qualify for vaccination in this phase, according to BMC’s door-to-door survey.Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani, who is also in charge of BMC’s public health department, said, “All 20 hospitals have a go-ahead from us to remain vaccination centres during the third phase, if they chose to do so. Over the next few days, all 20 will start functioning as vaccination centres for their own healthcare workers.On Wednesday, 8,400 beneficiaries were inoculated in Mumbai, of which 1,374 were HCWs who got their first dose of the vaccine and 393 HCWs received the second dose. While the turnout for HCWs was 59%, it was 115% for frontline workers (FLWs) with 6,633 FLWs receiving the first dose. BMC started vaccinating FLWs from February 4 and they will receive the second dose 28 days after the first shot.At the threeprivate hospitals, 201 HCWs received the first dose of the vaccine. Jaslok Hospital administered the second dose to two HCWs.Three beneficiaries reported minor adverse events following immunization (AEFI) on Wednesday when they complained of dizziness. They were kept under observation for 30 minutes and then discharged.So far, BMC has vaccinated 133,349 people, of which 38,953 are FLWs. Additionally, 676 HCWs received their second dose. For the third day in a row, there were technical glitches with the Co-WIN app, which is managing the vaccination drive, and as a result not all the beneficiaries who visited centres for their second dose could be vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/4-private-hospitals-in-mumbai-start-vaccinating-their-staff-101613590143444.html
18-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai crosses 700-new Covid-19 case mark after over a month||Over 700 new cases of Covid-19 were reported in Mumbai on Wednesday, after more than a month. On Wednesday, the city recorded 721 new cases and three deaths, taking the case tally to 315,751 and toll to 11,428. Mumbai had last reported over 700 cases on January 6. This is the highest since January 13 when Mumbai had reported 675 cases. The city has been reporting a minor spike in daily Covid-19 cases since February 10. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has attributed this spike to several reasons including gradual unlocking, carelessness by citizens, resuming local trains for all.Anticipating a spike in cases, BMC has in the past one week taken several measures including tightening grip on housing societies. This was followed by forming teams in the city to ensure that banquet and marriage hall owners are taking adequate safety measures of not allowing gathering of more than 50 people at a time.Last week, BMC also announced that though state had allowed reopening of colleges from February 15, the civic body will take a final call for colleges in the city after February 22.Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar on Tuesday said, “We need to ensure that we do not lower our guards. Covid-19 has not gone anywhere. The city might head towards lockdown if citizens do not follow Covid-19 precautions. There were deliberations to reopen school in next two to three days, but now even that has been postponed.”Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, said, “We are witnessing an increase in cases, and any further decision on relaxations or restrictions will be taken by BMC after a review meeting on February 22. Citizens have to continue wearing mask, maintaining social distancing and washing hands frequently to curb the spread of Covid-19.”He added, “We are targeting marriages and social gatherings for which ward officers have been given targets. I have asked officers to visit shopping malls, restaurants, clubs, etc., to ensure Covid-19 compliance at these establishments.”Meanwhile, Dr Shashank Joshi, member of the Maharashtra Covid-19 taskforce, said, “We are seeing a surge in cases and Mumbai is slowly heading towards red zone again. To avoid any further worsening of the situation, BMC needs to reinforce the basics. This includes strict masking, testing, tracing, quarantining. We need to regulate all types of gatherings and ensure that Covid-19 appropriate behaviour is followed here.”According to figures by the state health department, Mumbai’s fatality rate stands at 3.61% while 298,933 patients have recovered, taking the recovery rate to 94.67%. The city’s overall positivity rate is 10.30% and 3.058 million tests have been conducted so far, according to BMC data.The city’s average growth rate is 0.16%, but in areas like Mulund, Chembur, Sion, Goregaon, it is above 0.20%. City’s active cases stand at 4,530 with the highest number of active cases from western suburbs including Borivli, Kandivli, Malad, Andheri etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-crosses-700-new-covid-19-case-mark-after-over-a-month-101613590083270.html
18-02-2021||Mumbai||When will Mumbai-Pune e-way toll collection stop, Bombay HC asks state||The Bombay high court (HC) has sought to know from the state government as when it will stop toll collection on Mumbai-Pune expressway. The directive came on a public interest litigation (PIL) that complained that the total capital outlay of the project had been recovered in 2019, but toll was still being collected. The PIL further alleged that the excess toll collected has been pocketed by the contractor who was assigned the contract of toll collection till 2019.The PIL, while seeking directions to Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC) to discontinue the toll collection contract, also urged that the toll amount collected by the contractor since 2019 be deposited to the state exchequer. When the PIL filed by advocate Pravin Wategaonkar came up for hearing before the division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni, the court expressed concerns over the continuation of toll collection on Mumbai-Pune Expressway. In the praecipe moved by Wategaonkar and other petitioners Sanjay Shirodkar, Vivek Velankar and Shrinivas Ghanekar, the court was informed that the previous contract had exceeded its collection target of ₹4,330 crore in the 15-year contract period which ended in 2019 by nearly ₹2,343 crore. The bench has asked MSRDC whether it had received the excess toll revenue. In view of the submissions, justice Kulkarni expressed concerns and agreed that travelling from Mumbai to Kolhapur entailed paying a large sum towards toll. “Till when do you plan to continue collecting toll, now that the project cost is recovered,” justice Kulkarni asked MSRDC. He also enquired whether the government was receiving its share of toll revenue from the contractor as it raised a larger issue of public interest. While responding to the court’s query, the advocate for MSRDC said the contract has been given after payment of upfront amount by the contractor and the government had a right to collect toll in view of the Motor Vehicles Act. He further sought time to file a detailed reply to address the other queries, which was allowed. The court while directing MSRDC to file a reply within two weeks also asked it to serve copy to the petitioner and directed listing of the PIL ‘High on Board’ after three weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/when-will-mumbai-pune-e-way-toll-collection-stop-bombay-hc-asks-state-101613589849440.html
18-02-2021||Mumbai||Notify mangroves as reserved forest: Maharashtra mangroves cell to JNPT||The state mangrove cell has written to the Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust (JNPT) to begin the process of notifying mangrove land in its possession as reserved forest, in compliance with a Bombay high court (HC) order. In a letter issued to the chairman of JNPT on February 12, Virendra Tiwari, additional principal chief conservator of forests and an ex-officio executive director of the state mangrove foundation, asked the port authority to notify mangrove area under its control under section 4 of the Indian Forest Act, 1927, “at the earliest”. Once notified, the mangrove area has to be handed over to the mangroves cell for better conservation. “It has come to our notice that JNPT has not yet started the process of notifying mangrove land despite a court order in 2018. Since we do not have any information regarding mangrove area owned or controlled by the JNPT, we had been waiting for the port trust to start the process on its own. Since it has not happened, we have now written to them to start the process at the earliest,” said Tiwari. In 2005, an interim order by the HC had stated that all mangrove areas on government land were to be handed over to the forest department. The HC reiterated its order on September 18, 2018. While district bodies are yet to hand over 1,592.8 hectare (ha) of mangrove land, state agencies such as the Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) and JNPT have failed to transfer approximately 1,147 ha to the forest department. An email to the JNPT spokesperson did not elicit any response. However, HT has accessed a letter issued to the mangrove cell on January 16, in which JNPT had sought details on its share of mangrove land to be transferred to the state forest department. In December last year, environment group Vanashakti had issued contempt notices to all Konkan district collectors, the Konkan divisional commissioner and JNPT for failing to hand over mangrove land under their jurisdiction to the Maharashtra forest department. In January this year, Vanashakti filed a petition in the HC seeking immediate transfer of all mangrove lands to the forest department. “After receiving the notices, the state agencies have now started acting on the court order. JNPT is yet to transfer around 900ha of mangroves land,” said Stalin D, founder and director of Vanashakti.“This letter from the mangrove cell to JNPT is a welcome development. As per JNPT’s official admission on its website, there is 900ha of mangroves in its area. By the thumb rule of 1,000 mangroves-per-hectare, JNPT is sitting on 900,000 mangroves,” said BN Kumar, director, NatConnect Foundation, another NGO that has been complaining of destruction of mangroves in the JNPT special economic zone (SEZ).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/notify-mangroves-as-reserved-forest-maharashtra-mangroves-cell-to-jnpt-101613589848230.html
18-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai mayor takes local train to work, appeals citizens to wear mask||A day after warning citizens that the city might head towards another lockdown if they do not take Covid-19 precautions, Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar on Wednesday travelled by local train between Byculla and Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) and requested passengers to wear mask.Pednekar, on her routine visit to Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) headquarters on Wednesday, took a local train from Byculla, where her official residence is located, to CSMT. She asked food stall operators at stations, stall owners outside railway stations and passengers inside local trains to wear mask, maintain social distancing, wash hands and use sanitiser.Pednekar had on Tuesday said, “If citizens do not follow Covid-19 guidelines, there will be no option for the state but to go for another lockdown. It is on the citizens to ensure that proper masking, sanitisation and social distancing are maintained.”Apart from this, BMC has also set up squads on ward level to keep a watch on passengers travelling in local trains without wearing a mask.According to railway officials, daily around 3.7 million passengers are travelling via Western and Central Railways.Meanwhile, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday directed district authorities to strictly enforce the standard operating procedures (SOPs) laid down to facilitate unlocking in the state. Taking a serious note of the laxity in Covid-appropriate behaviour, Thackeray had warned that a lockdown would be imposed again if people do not prevent crowding or wear masks in public.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-mayor-takes-local-train-to-work-appeals-citizens-to-wear-mask-101613589662770.html
18-02-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra to get new skill development university, 6 centres of excellence||In a bid to increase skilled manpower and increase employment opportunities in the state, the Maharashtra government on Wednesday approved a proposal to set up its first public skill development university and six centres of excellence (CoE) that would offer degree and post-graduate courses. The government will introduce a bill in this regard in the budget session of the state legislature which will start on March 1.Maharashtra currently has one private skill development university in Pune, while there are seven other such universities across the country, including three private ones. According to skill development minister Nawab Malik, currently, the skill development courses are largely limited to diploma courses. He added that the proposed university will provide courses keeping in mind the requirement of the day and the future.“There will be degree and post-graduate courses offered through the university. Besides that, different colleges will be allowed to offer skill development courses. Courses will be designed keeping in mind the requirement of the industries so that more and more people get trained and get jobs,” said Malik. “We will also have six CoEs, which will be sub-centres of the university. Campus training and the courses will be conducted at these sub-centres,” he added. The CoE will be set up in each of the six revenue divisions of the state. “The university will receive annual funding of ₹50 crore from the government for 10 years, following which it will become a self-sustaining university,” Malik said.Meanwhile, the state is still deliberating where to set up the university. Some of the short-listed locations include Mumbai, Thane and Pune. “We are still discussing where to set up the university; whether to do it in Mumbai, Thane or Pune or around the [Mumbai-Nagpur] Samruddhi Mahamarg. We intend to set it up near a city so that it is easier for faculty and students, and so that they get all the facilities,” Malik said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-to-get-new-skill-development-university-6-centres-of-excellence-101613589542824.html
18-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body to depute 300 marshals at railway stations for mask check||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) will depute 300 marshals at railway stations across the city by the end of the week to enforce the rule of wearing face masks in public places. Since local train services have resumed for the general public, Mumbai has seen a spike in the number of reported cases of Covid-19. Wearing the face mask is mandatory for all those travelling by local train. Health officials believe the violation of Covid-safety norms while travelling in trains is a contributing factor to the uptick in the number of cases. To ensure Covid-19 appropriate behaviour among commuters, BMC will station 100 marshals on Western (WR), 100 marshals on Central (CR) Railway and 100 marshals on Harbour line. “Since we are still fighting the pandemic, people cannot be careless and need to follow all precautionary measures to stop further spread of the infection. So we have decided to keep marshals at railway stations to implement safety rules by issuing fines,” said additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani. In April 2020, BMC had issued a directive that set a fine of ₹1,000 for being outdoors without wearing a mask and/ or spitting in public places. The penalty was reduced to ₹200 in September after citizens complained that the amount was too high. Since February 1, when local trains opened up to the general public after almost a year, on an average of 2 million people are using local trains daily. Although social distancing is among the prescribed Covid-safety norms, commuters have reported overcrowding and maintaining a one-metre distance from the next person to be a significant challenge. “Buses and trains are as crowded as they used to be earlier [before the lockdown] due to reduced frequency and high demand for public transport. It is all the more essential, therefore, that masks be used by everyone,” said Dr Vispi Jokhi, chief executive officer, Masina Hospital. Commuters have also complained that few are taking Covid guidelines seriously, particularly in matters like wearing face masks. “People keep their masks below the mouth, and don’t use a handkerchief when sneezing or coughing. Then they hold the side handle bars without sanitising their hands. We never know who is infected, which makes me anxious,” said Shreyas Salvi, who runs a construction firm and has been travelling daily from Vasai from Borivli for work. Dr Jokhi said wearing face masks properly offered almost as much protection as the vaccine. “The [face] mask protocol is almost 80% as effective as the vaccine in terms of the control of the pandemic as it reduces the spray of droplets when worn over the nose and mouth. Although the vaccination drive in India is at a nascent stage, if coupled with the precautions of maintaining [face] mask protocol, then we have a better chance to control the pandemic and ensure the second wave doesn’t come in the country,” said Dr Jokhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-to-depute-300-marshals-at-railway-stations-for-mask-check-101613589483227.html
18-02-2021||Mumbai||20% students needed help for mental health issue but never sought help during their IIT stint||A survey of some students of the graduating batch of the Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B) has revealed that at least 20% needed to consult a mental health professional during their time at the institute, but never sought one, while 16.3% consulted a mental health professional for a brief period and 5.6% received counselling through their stay.However, 55.8% of students who participated in the survey said they never needed any such help throughout their course.These figures were part of the Senior Survey released by the institute’s in-house magazine, Insight, this week.“Stigma attached to mental health is a big problem and to date, seeking professional help from mental health experts is considered a sign of weakness and low confidence. This could be one of the reasons for students to not seek help despite having the opportunity to do so anonymously on campus,” said a mental health expert who formerly worked with IIT-B.He added that the institute has a professional set-up and students are always encouraged to share their concerns, however, since many students come from smaller cities, they are still not open to the idea of sharing their problems.The survey, which took into account responses from 215 students from the graduating batch, also shed light on the time these students spent on campus, their future plans as well as their political inclinations, to name a few.Demographically, a majority of the students came from Maharashtra, followed by Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat. Of these, 32.5% grew up in metros while 38.6% and 23.7% came from small cities and towns across the country, respectively.According to the survey, almost 38.4% of the respondents admitted to being chain smokers, revealing that they smoked around a pack a day, whereas one in 10 students admitted that they rarely smoke or smoke at least once a day.“A lot of students start smoking once they joined the institute because they allegedly find it easier to try such vices once they are away from their families, while others just fall prey to peer pressure,” said a student of the institute, on condition of anonymity.Almost 50% of respondent agreed that they used unfair means at the time of submission of assignments/projects as well as in quizzes, due to various reasons including lack of confidence or no interest in the course.The survey further revealed that almost 40% of the respondents were neither happy with the hostel nor the food served in the hostel mess. Nearly 25.4% of respondents also highlighted how studying in the competitive environment of the IIT did not help them develop any social skills.Around 38.1% of the respondents said they planned to appear for the GRE (Graduate Record Examinations), whereas 27.9% will appear for the Common Admissions Test (CAT) for MBA admissions. “Of those surveyed, 74.2% said that job-wise, they have been posted in India, whereas 12% have been posted in the US, and another 4.7% have been posted in Japan, Korea and Taiwan,” highlighted the survey.In terms of political inclination, 21.4% said they were inclined towards the left, 18.5% were inclined towards the right and around 37.6% stated that they had no political inclination at all.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/20-students-need-help-for-mental-health-issues-during-iit-b-stint-survey-101613589422927.html
18-02-2021||Mumbai||2 held for destruction of mangroves in Mumbai’s Mahul area||Almost a fortnight after the state mangrove cell found evidence of destruction of mangroves on government land at Mahul in Chembur, it arrested two persons on Wednesday.On February 4, Neenu Somaraj, deputy conservator of forest (mangrove cell) had visited Mahul following complaints of debris dumping and illegal construction on the protected land.On Wednesday, the mangroves cell arrested the accused, Rani Mani Arjun and Shafiqullah Chaudhary for illegally dumping debris on the mangrove land. The arrests were made under sections 63 (penalty for counterfeiting or defacing marks on trees and timber and for altering boundary marks0 and 26 (1) a, d, f, and h (punishment for prohibited acts in forests) of the Indian Forest Act, 1927. Somaraj said that since the land belongs to the state government, the mangroves cell will work with all stakeholders and decide on joint action for the restoration of the mangroves and wetlands in the area. Earlier this month, NGO Vanashakti had written to the state government and the mangrove cell, highlighting the extensive destruction of mangroves, wetlands and buffer zones in Mahul. Citing that Vanashakti had documented the destruction, Stalin D, founder of the NGO, said, “Close to 700 truckloads of debris and mud have been dumped on mangroves and wetlands, over an area of around 10 acres or more. In some locations, the dumped material is over 15 metres high. Construction pillars are also coming up on the reclamation. Illegal road admeasuring almost half a kilometre has been made by dumping debris on mangroves near an SRA building.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/2-held-for-destruction-of-mangroves-in-mumbai-s-mahul-area-101613589182883.html
18-02-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra government clears Metro Neo line in Pimpri||The Maharashtra cabinet on Wednesday approved a proposal to extend the Pune Metro from Pimpri to Nigdi. The 4.41-km elevated Metro Neo corridor is being built as an additional route after the Pune-Swargat Metro corridor was altered. The project will have three stations between Pimpri and Nigdi, including Nigdi, Akurdi and Chinchwad.Metro Neo is the rubber tyre-based articulated bus system which will draw power from an overhead electric conductor. It will have a dedicated elevated right of way which will ensure uninterrupted mass transit of commuters. Being implemented by the Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation, the project will cost ₹946.73 crore. The Centre will fund 10% of the cost, while the state government will provide ₹170.3 crore, including ₹90.63 crore as a secondary loan. Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation will also chip in with funds, while the remaining 60% will be raised through loans, said a government official.The official added that the clearance for the project was stuck due to a change in the percentage of funds provided by Centres and state. As per an earlier practice, the Central and state government would provide 20% of the funds, each. “But since the Central government had said it would provide 10% of the funds, the matter had come before the state government for its approval,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-government-clears-metro-neo-line-in-pimpri-101613589003069.html
18-02-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra government clears policy to allow caravan tourism, parks||In a boost to tourism in the state, the Maharashtra government has cleared the caravan policy, which will allow private players to get the vehicles for tourism and setting up of caravan parks in public and private places. The decision was taken in the state cabinet meeting held on Wednesday. Maharashtra is the third state after Madhya Pradesh and Karnataka to get such a policy. Specially built vehicles (home on wheels) used for the purpose of travel, leisure and accommodation are called caravans. A caravan park is a place where caravans can stay overnight in allocated spaces, providing basic or advanced amenities and facilities to the travellers. According to officials, the policy is expected to help provide an experience other than the traditional stays and family trips at hotels and resorts. It will allow appropriate use of no-development zones, promote tourism in remote areas and also create job opportunities in the state, they said. Each caravan is expected to have facilities such as beds for stay at night, kitchen, toilet, sofa and table for comfort of the travellers and maintenance of proper hygiene. The state government has allowed use of different sets of caravans – single axle and twin axle caravans, folding caravan, camper trailer – under the policy. One of the essential pre-requisites for caravan tourism is the presence of sufficient caravan parks in the identified circuits. “The policy is to allow privately owned caravans to be used on trips and encourage them. They will come under the tourism policy and will be eligible for all incentives in stamp duty and registration, electricity duty and Good and Services Tax (GST),” said Valsa Nair Singh, principal secretary, state tourism department. The concept of caravan tourism has gained popularity across the world owing to the freedom and flexibility it provides while holidaying, along with itineraries and accommodation. It promotes family-oriented tours even in circuits and destinations, which don’t have adequate hotel accommodation. There are many places where the state cannot build any structure as they come under NDZ (no-development zone) or CRZ (coastal regulation zone) laws or near heritage sites or forest. “The areas where construction is not permitted by the law, caravans can be allowed and they can do well in these areas because one can go on a foothill, park the caravan and explore it,” she said. The state government has also allowed setting up of caravan parks at public and private places by the owner or a developer. “We will be setting up caravan parking bays across the state. Like abroad, 10-15 caravans can be parked at a particular place. The land available from irrigation department, forest department, revenue department or MTDC etc. will be identified and developed as caravan parking bays having all the basic infrastructure water, electricity, security, safety. A memorandum of understanding will be signed with the private tour operator for its use,” the principal secretary said. The state will also allow developing hybrid parks. It means a private tour operator can tie up with a resort for using its open space as a caravan parking bay. For instance, Maharashtra Tourism Development Corporation (MTDC) can tie up with any caravan operator for it, she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-government-clears-policy-to-allow-caravan-tourism-parks-101613588703078.html
18-02-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra sees biggest 1-day Covid case spike in 70 days; curbs slapped in 7 districts||After 21 of Maharashtra’s 36 districts reported a rise in active Covid-19 patients between February 9 and February 15, at least seven of them have imposed restrictions on the movement of people, while the state government has reiterated its warning of imposing a lockdown if the case curve keeps moving northward. Experts have also attributed the spike in cases to a drop in tests and poor contact-tracing in districts where cases are on the rise.Maharashtra on Wednesday reported 4,787 new Covid-19 cases (second 4,000-plus spike in the past four days) and 40 deaths, taking the tally to 2,076,092 and toll to 51,631.More importantly, Wednesday’s spike in infections is Maharashtra’s highest in the past 70 days. The state had earlier clocked 4,981 cases on December 9. Amid the rise in cases, the district administrations in Amravati, Nagpur, Buldhana, Yavatmal, Akola, Parbhani and Jalna have either restricted gatherings to less than five people or have started to strictly implement the standing government standard operating procedure (SOP) that was meant to facilitate unlocking. The district administrations are also fining people heavily for not following SMS (social distancing, masking and sanitising) protocol, besides keeping schools and colleges shut for at least another two weeks.In a video conference with the district collectors and municipal commissioners, Dr Pradeep Vyas, principal secretary, public health department, had directed to ramp up contact-tracing in the ratio of 1:20. “Aggressive tracing and testing could help them in bringing the positivity rate in control. They have been told to take help of revenue and police machinery to keep the crowding under control and for the awareness among people. The districts and corporations have also been directed to revive the containment zones and seal the affected areas,” an official from the department said. Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar reiterated the government’s stand and said if the people do not follow the protocol the government will be forced to impose lockdown. He also warned that the state will have to pay a heavy price if cases continued to rise. “In some cases, 5,000 to 10,000 invitees attend wedding ceremonies, people forget to wear masks and maintain social distancing. In local trains in Mumbai, too, we have been witnessing heavy crowding. The positivity rate in some of the districts is high. We will have no option, but to impose the lockdown if this continues,” he said.The daily caseload in districts like Pune (864), Nashik (114), Nagpur (512), Amravati (625) continued to be on the rise. Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) reported 1,237 cases on Wednesday with the highest contribution from Thane (113) and Kalyan-Dombivli (131) after Mumbai.In the past week (February 9-15), as many as 21 districts have witnessed a rise in active cases, while the weekly positivity rate in few districts such as Amravati (24.79%), Akola(20.94%), Nashik (16.31%) has been much above the state rate. The state administration has expressed concerns over the poor contact tracing and testing. In districts with high positivity rate, the per million test rate isreported to be poor. Buldhana (568), Dhule (568), Nanded (670) were among the top districts with low rate of per million testing.Dropped testing and poor tracking is also one of the reasons for the rise in the cases and positivity rate, according to public health experts. The daily testing in the state dropped to 48,705 in past 16 days in February, against the daily average of 60,308 tests in January. Against the protocol of tracing of 20 contacts per positive patients, many districts saw it much below the parameter. “With the drop in the cases over last three months, the district authorities had stopped taking it seriously, clinically and administratively. The spike in the cases is also because of it,” said the official from the health department. “There should be strict tracking and testing across the state. It is true that the administrations in some areas have lowered their guard in term of tracking and testing, but they should immediately take corrective measures,” said Dr Gautam Bhansali, consultant physician, Bombay Hospital.Dr Pradeep Awate, state surveillance officer, said, “We have been conducting about 60,000 tests per day. But the tests in the districts and areas with the rise in cases and positivity, the testing has been increased. The district administrations have been directed to go for aggressive contact tracing and testing.”Dr Awate said the cold wave witnessed in parts of the state, recently held gram panchayat elections in over 14,000 panchayats, crowd at the wedding ceremonies and public gatherings are mainly the reasons for spike in cases. “We have been concentrating on the districts with high number of cases and the positivity rate. Our state level teams of experts visited these districts to take a review and guide local administration,” he said.Meanwhile, the turnout for the vaccination with the first dose to healthcare and frontline workers continued to remain low. 7959 HCWs and 21,112 FLWs took their first shot, while 7065 HCWs turned up for their second dose of vaccine. Of the 1,054,822 registered HCWs, 575,046 have taken their first dose and 16,181 the second dose of vaccine. 186,279 FLWs of the total 5,94,471 enrolled on CoWIN app have taken their first dose after vaccination for them began from February 03.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-sees-biggest-1-day-covid-case-spike-in-70-days-curbs-slapped-in-7-districts-101613587982988.html
18-02-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra Governor BS Koshyari directs to hold election for Speaker’s post||In a rare development, Governor BS Koshyari has directed the Maharashtra legislature to hold elections for the post of Speaker of the Assembly, which is lying vacant following the resignation of Nana Patole who was appointed as state Congress chief. Koshyari’s directive assumes significance in the context of the on-going tussle between him and the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in the state. It also comes barely a week after Thackeray denied a state aircraft to Koshyari to travel to Uttarakhand last Thursday. Koshyari has written a letter to the state legislature secretariat on Tuesday in connection with the Speaker’s election.Patole resigned as Speaker on February 4 to take up new responsibility as the state Congress president. The ruling coalition has been deliberating whether to hold the election at the beginning of the budget session of the state legislature that starts on March 1, or later. Coalition leaders are wary of holding the election immediately since it needs to be held through a secret ballot. MVA leaders are wary that the Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) may encourage cross-voting to defeat their nominee, which would mean the collapse of the Thackeray government. Koshyari, in his letter, directed the legislative secretariat to hold the election in the first week of the budget session, said a senior official, requesting anonymity.The issue was discussed in a state cabinet meeting on Wednesday. The ministers expressed unhappiness over the move. “This is the first time the Governor wrote such a letter as he cannot issue such a directive without the recommendation of the state government,” said a senior minister, on condition of anonymity.The ministers also expressed discontent over the delay in appointment of 12 names under the Governor’s quota to the legislative Council. It has been over three months since the state cabinet recommended the 12 names to Koshyari to nominate them to the upper House as per the norms, on November 6, last year.Rule 6 of the Maharashtra legislative Assembly rules states: “If more than one member has been so nominated, the Assembly shall proceed to elect the Speaker by ballot.”Deputy speaker Narhari Zirwal is in charge of the Speaker’s responsibilities at present.Last Thursday, the Thackeray government had denied permission to Koshyari to use the state’s aeroplane to travel to Dehradun. This has led to a controversy and blame game between the Raj Bhavan secretariat and the state.According to Raj Bhavan, Koshyari had reached the international airport and even boarded the state’s aircraft, but he was told that the plane would not take off as the chief minister’s office (CMO) had not approved the travel. Consequently, permission to fly had not been sought from the aviation authority. The Governor then took a commercial flight to Dehradun.The CMO blamed the secretariat for the entire episode. In a clarification, the CMO said that the Raj Bhavan secretariat should have ensured that they had permission to use the aircraft before the Governor departed from his official residence. The chief minister also directed to take action against the officials responsible for the negligence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-governor-bs-koshyari-directs-to-hold-election-for-speaker-s-post-101613587922721.html
18-02-2021||Other||Farmers’ protest: Sugarcane hub western Maharashtra remains largely silent||When 60-year-old Mahavir Tamgave from Sangli’s Kavathe Piran village decided to sow soya bean and wheat last year in his partially irrigated 3-acre land, his family did not approve of his decision. He, however, went ahead with the move and got a good produce, which he sold in the open market to a trader. He received ₹4,000 per quintal on soya bean, a rate higher that other farmers from the neighbouring Satara district got. “I was happy about my decision. The rain was good and so was the produce. The rate I got was equally good,” said Tamgave. When asked if he participated in last year’s December 8 Bharat Bandh to extend support to the farmers protesting at Delhi borders against, the three farm laws, Tamgave answered in negative. Western Maharashtra, mainly known for the sugarcane produce, has largely been silent against the farm laws. The few protests were largely driven by political outfits such as the Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatana and its leader Raju Shetti. On the eve of Republic Day, Shetti with his supporters took out a protest march on tractors from Sangli to Kolhapur. One reason, the region has not seen much protests is because sugarcane is a cash crop, for which the three laws may not directly be applicable, given that farmers have to sell their produce to nearby sugar factory. “The highly institutionalised cooperatives engaged in sugar sector, along with firms owned by farmers who purchase the agriculture produce, have largely kept the farmers assured about rates,” said Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) legislator Rohit Pawar, who is party chief Sharad Pawar’s grandnephew. For those growing other crops such as soya bean and wheat, the Agricultural Produce Market Committees (APMC) Act, 2003, adopted in 2006, allows farmers to sell their produce either at APMC markets or to private traders. The law was enacted during the NCP-Congress rule when Shetkari Sanghatana, one of the first farmers’ outfits in western India, had demanded for freeing agriculture. If farmers from North India have been excessively relying on single crop, their western Maharashtra counterparts have been cultivating multiple crops on small plots. The multiple crops along with vegetables, according to agriculture experts, have ensured that money flows into the hands of farmers. Sanjay Suryawanshi, a 53-year-old farmer from Loni Bhapkar village in Baramati tehsil, has been cultivating wheat and jowar in his 4.5-acre non-irrigated land. In 2020, Suryawanshi sold his 10 quintals of wheat grown on 0.5 part of the land at ₹1,500 per quintal to APMC in Baramati, Sharad Pawar’s home town. “I could hardly recover the money I had put in producing the wheat as I had to pay the head-loader, middlemen and transporter,” said Suryawanshi. He said if the Centre implements the three laws properly, there’s no problem with some of the provisions of the laws, such as contract farming. On minimum support price (MSP), he said that farmers are not getting much anyway. The critics of the farmers’ protest have often pointed out the benefits of contract farming, which is in existence in Maharashtra. One such firm – Baramati Agro – started by Rohit’s grandfather Appasaheb Pawar in 1988, underlined several benefits of contract farming. As per its website, the firm deals with various sectors such as animal and poultry feed, sugar and ethanol manufacturing, co-generation of power, trading of agri-commodities, fruits and vegetables, dairy products, and retailing. Rohit said he has not faced any problem from farmers even while running a firm involved in contract farming. “One reason why our firm never faced issues from farmers is because we have always safeguarded their interests. However, the same cannot be said about big companies whose owners farmers may not even know.” On the current protests by farmers from Punjab and Haryana, Rohit said the main concern of farmers is on MSP. “Under MSP system, farmers can sell their produce to private players if they are getting better rates. However, under contract farming, farmers do not have this freedom [to sell produce to entities they have not signed agreement with]. The Centre is stressing that farmers have freedom to come out of contracts. However Clause 11 in the law says: “At any time after entering into a farming agreement, the parties to such agreement may, with mutual consent, alter or terminate such agreement for any reasonable cause”. This means unless both parties agree on the terms, they cannot come out of contract.” The farmers HT spoke to feel that the alternate arrangement of allowing produce outside APMC may not be bad if the mandis are going to stay. “I have been alternatively growing vegetables and pulses. I sell vegetables in APMC and pulses to private traders who pay in cash,” said Balaji Sawate, a farmer from Malshiras in Solapur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/farmers-protest-sugarcane-hub-western-maharashtra-remains-largely-silent-101613587742796.html
18-02-2021||Other||Farm stir: In north Maharashtra, farmers divided over pvt traders, contract farming||Thirty-year-old Pandurang Kadali who owns a 4-acre plot at Suryagadh, a small hamlet in Nashik, is constantly worried about the fate of his land, which is a part of the forest area. Kadali wants the land rights of this plot, on which he has been cultivating from the past 15 years. “Despite promises and various agitations, the government is not transferring the land in our name. It’s our only asset and source of livelihood,” said Kadali. His father Madhukar was among the 35,000 farmers who had trekked 180km to Mumbai to press for their rights for land in March 2018.Somnath Aher’s situation is different. Aher cultivates a variety of crops such as sugarcane, onions, tomatoes and soya bean in 5 acres of land and earns at least ₹8- ₹10 lakh per annum. However, he rues that the government has not been supporting farmers like him. “The government announces various schemes such as subsidies on seeds, compensation for unseasonal rains and loan waivers, but they never reach us. We have to struggle as we get electricity for an average of just nine hours daily and at erratic timings. At times, we need to irrigate even at midnight,” said Aher.Kadali and Aher represent the farmers of northern Maharashtra, who are largely unaware of the three farm laws. They are more troubled by local issues which they face on a daily basis. Over 80 lakh people in this region depend on agriculture and predominantly cultivate onions, sugarcane, grapes, soya bean, tomatoes and bananas.Sahyadri Farms, a company of small farmers, said the farm laws will hardly create any impact in Maharashtra. “Farmers here have the freedom to sell where they want to and hence it does not make much of a difference to them,” said Vilas Shinde, managing director, Sahyadri Farms. He said even contract farming, which finds a prominent place in these laws, is prevalent in Maharashtra and farmers have already tied up with private parties. “We have grape farmers in Nashik who have inked contracts with wine-making companies. Such practices have been there in Maharashtra for years,” said Shinde.Aher agreed with Shinde and cited his own example. “I was getting ₹4,100 for 100-kg soya bean outside APMC (agriculture produce market committee), while the same produce was being offered ₹3,900 at APMC. So I sold my produce outside,” said Aher.Sandeep Ranapratap, who cultivates on his 2-acre land, has to work in a cushion-making unit to supplement his family income. “The produce in our farm is mainly for our household. I have to work outside to sustain my family,” said Ranapratap. He earns ₹300 as a daily wage worker in the unit.The All India Kisan Sabha (AIKS), which is affiliated to the Communist Party of India (Marxist), enjoys a strong base in north Maharashtra. It said there is lack of awareness on the laws among the farmers. “A majority of the farmers are unaware of the new laws and hence, we are spreading awareness of the ill-effects, among them,” said Sunil Malusare, joint secretary, AIKS (Maharashtra). “It’s true that there is not much opposition among the Maharashtra farmers like that expressed by the Punjab and Haryana farmers,” he added.Dattatray Ganpat Chile, whose family of five are engaged in the cultivation of the 3-acre land in Sawrichamal village, said he is not fully aware of the new farm laws. “There was neither an attempt by the government nor the opponents to educate us about the laws. Last year, I suffered a huge loss, as our cauliflower crop was destroyed due to unseasonal rains, and we didn’t even get any compensation. We are more worried about our crops than these laws,” said Chile. However, he cautioned that the government needs to ensure that small landholders are also accommodated in the law and that their land is not gobbled up by the corporates.Former state minister Sadabhau Khot and the chief of Rayat Kranti Sanghatana said farmers are not bothered as the new laws will not affect them. “The largest contract farming takes place in Nashik in the grape sector. These laws will not enslave the farmers but in fact make them stronger,” said Khot, who has been campaigning in favour of the laws across Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/farm-stir-in-north-maharashtra-farmers-divided-over-pvt-traders-contract-farming-101613587682703.html
18-02-2021||Mumbai||1.5 million people fined ₹30.96 crore for not wearing mask: Mumbai civic body||In the past 10 months, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has collected ₹30.96 crore in fines from 1.5 million citizens for not wearing face masks in public areas. Wearing masks in public is mandatory and violating this Covid-19 protocol attracts a fine of ₹200. According to BMC, the civic body has collected ₹30.96 crore in fines as of February 16. The highest fine collection was from K-West ward, which includes Andheri (West), Jogeshwari (West) and Oshiwara, where 108,912 citizens were fined of ₹2.22 crore. S ward (Bhandup, Powai and Vikhroli) came next with 85,119 citizens being fined ₹1.70 crore; followed by L ward (Kurla), where ₹1.69 crore was collected from 83,932 citizens. B ward, which is the smallest ward in the city and covers areas like Pydhonie and Bhendi Bazaar, has recorded the lowest collection with 30,876 citizens fined ₹61 lakh. Meanwhile, Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar on Thursday directed BMC officials to register a case against a hotel in the western suburbs to which four citizens had fled instead of entering institutional quarantine upon returning from international travel. Passengers from the United Kingdom, Middle East, Europe and South Africa are required to quarantine because of new variants of Covid-19 have been found in these countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/15-million-people-fined-30-96-crore-for-not-wearing-mask-mumbai-civic-body-101613587622768.html
18-02-2021||Other||Farm laws stir: At Maharashtra’s Vidarbha, farmers wary of private traders||The Vidarbha region has been in the news for ignominious reasons for decades. The region’s farmers, predominantly cotton growers, have remained in distress, and many of them have been driven to commit suicide, essentially due to non-remunerative income for their produce. But the locals in the epicentre of country’s farmer suicides are completely oblivious to the provisions of the new farm laws which have triggered massive protests in the national Capital for over two months. Dabhadi in crisis-ridden Yavatmal district is one such typical dry land village where 18 farmers have committed suicide in the past few years after being unable to bear the perils of perennial losses either due to the vagaries of nature, pricing or policy paradigms. Dabhadi hit the headlines in the run-up to the parliamentary elections in 2014 when Narendra Modi, then the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Prime Ministerial candidate, held ‘Chai Pe Charcha’, a nationally televised conversation with farmers. Promises made during the election campaign remained unfulfilled, villagers said. The situation in the village has not changed a bit, though farmers are receiving the dole of Rs6,000 per year, under the Modi government scheme started in 2019. “Modi had promised us so many things…better prices for our produce, facilities for value addition of crops, efficient crop insurance, among others. But the promises remained hollow as none of them materialised,” said 80-year-old Rajeshwar Dabhodkar, a former panchayat samiti member who was present at the Chai Pe Charcha event with Modi on March 20, 2014, at his village. Former sarpanch Santosh Take, who had interacted with Modi during the event, said that situation is just a shade better, but grossly unsatisfactory. He insisted that farmers must get remunerative prices for their produce. “We have both the open market and mandi but farmers hardly get the MSP (minimum support price) as private parties purchase the produce from the needy farmers at throwaway prices before the government comes out with MSP. This must stop,” he said. Pushpa Ingle, a newly elected gram panchayat member from Dabhadi village appreciated PM for transferring Rs6,000 annually to her husband’s account. But she believes that Modi did not keep the promises made during the Chai Pe Charcha event. Though the farmers of the region are not agitating as fiercely as their counterparts from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, they claim to be equally unhappy with the government over the prevailing prices of agriculture produce in the market, the approach of the banks and the government’s attitude in the event of a natural calamity. Ingle pointed out that Modi had in 2014 promised that if elected, his government would function as “kisan mitra (a friend of farmers)”, and that agriculture would be a priority sector, where farmers would feel proud to be in the profession. “But the situation in the villages is rife with suffering, anguish and misery. No one in the village is proud to be a farmer. In fact farmers find it difficult to get a bride,” said Ingle. He, along with all other 10 gram panchayat members of Dabhadi, have a Congress leaning and were elected last month by defeating BJP-supported candidates. But Ingle, Dabhodkar, Take and other farmers also admit that they have no idea about the three new farm laws which are being contested by the Opposition parties and the protesting farmers in Delhi. One reason being that the farmers at Dabhadi are so neck-deep worried about earning a living that they feel the new contentious farm laws are not worth their attention. This is perhaps the reason that Vidarbha has not so far witnessed any farmers’ agitation over the farm laws despite the fact that farmers continue to end their lives amid agrarian crisis. The Vidarbha Janandolan Samiti floated by Kishore Tiwari, the chairman of state-run Agriculture Mission, which has been documenting farmers’ suicide since 2002, claimed that as many as 12 farmers have killed themselves in the region since January, while the figure was 278 last year. Former Shetkari Sanghatana chief Vijay Jawandhia from Wardha, who was once vocal against the Congress’s agriculture policies, is today a disillusioned man on Modi’s agriculture policy. His disappointment stems from what he terms as “unfulfilled” promises made by PM to the region’s farmers ahead of the 2014 elections. Now that the Modi government is into its second term, farmers are still doubtful of any meaningful and visible changes in their lives. The uproar over the new agriculture laws has only emboldened their doubt, said Jawandhia. Farmers get a raw deal from the government for the rising input costs that they face and the wildly fluctuating prices they receive for their produce. Jawandhia believes farmers’ incomes in real terms have remained stagnant or even declined in several years. A dole of a few thousand rupees a year does not make much of a difference if one takes into account factors such as inflation, he said, while justifying the agitation in Delhi for repealing the farm laws. Farmers from Punjab and Haryana are now in a grinding standoff with the Modi government, demanding calling for the repeal of the three laws. One of the biggest changes in the laws is that farmers will be allowed to sell their produce at market price directly to private players – agricultural businesses, supermarket chains and online grocers. Most Indian farmers currently sell a majority of their produce at government-controlled wholesale markets or mandis at assured floor prices. The reforms give farmers the option of selling outside the mandi system. Farmers at Vidarbha are mainly concerned that this will eventually lead to the end of wholesale markets and guaranteed prices, leaving them with no backup. If they are not satisfied with the price offered by a private buyer, they cannot return to the mandi or use it as a bargaining chip during negotiations, said Jawandhia, adding that the contentious reforms will loosen rules around the sale, pricing and storage of farm produce, which have protected India’s farmers from an unfettered free market for decades.Meanwhile Tiwari, a staunch Shiv Sena supporter, said he was in favour of the reforms. “In Maharashtra and particularly at Vidarbha, we have private mandis and farmers are being allowed to sell outside. But are they getting the remunerative prices for their produce?” he asked and insisted on a law for minimum guarantee price. He pointed out that Modi had promised that his government would ensure that it was always with farmers in every situation, provide quality seeds, fertilizers, crop credits, and crop insurance and formulate a progressive agriculture policy for the overall development of farmers during the Chai Pe Charcha event at Yavatmal. But in reality, farmers hardly got anything, he alleged. Tiwari says the banks are not farmers’ friendly. Over 40% of farmers from the region do not get crop loans from the banks on technical grounds and hence, they get trapped by moneylenders, agriculture traders and the mushrooming micro-finance institutions who charge exorbitant rates of interest. Unsurprisingly, for a large number of farmers, incomes are dwindling, he said and claimed that farmers end their lives because of the agricultural crisis in the region. The working president of Maharashtra Congress and former minister Shivajirao Moghe also said batted for a law on MSP, so that farmers have a sense of security instead of treading with trepidation about fetching remunerative prices for their produce. He also feels that there would be a monopoly on essential commodities, particularly on rice, wheat and pulses if the government allows corporate farming in the country. “The partial corporate farming and private trading of agriculture produce in Maharashtra totally failed and hence, the government should refrain from making a law in this regard,” he said, and announced that his party would , soon launch a massive agitation across the state against the new farm laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/farm-laws-stir-at-maharashtra-s-vidarbha-farmers-wary-of-private-traders-101613587562756.html
18-02-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: A place to call home||The doors are locked, their wood rotting. The window jaalis are cobwebbed. The balconies are blocked with bricks. The weather-beaten building must be empty inside.Yet, it shelters very many people. Outside.Those people are nowhere to be seen this late afternoon but their residences are as visible as daylight. Their possessions—all the essential stuff that makes up a house—are laid out in a great display across the length of this building, on the footpath, here in central Delhi’s Ansari Road. One of the doors is clipped with a string on which are hanging shorts, pants, a pithu bag, and a hand bag, which has a white banian (vest) coming out of it. A sheet of plywood is plonked against the door. It is the size of a single bed, and perhaps is used by its owner to spread out on the ground at night as a bed.The building faces a motor workshop. A middle-aged mechanic, his clothes greased in black, wearily says, “Majdoor (labourers) live by this pavement... this is their home.” Currently, the labourers are away at work and are likely to return only by sunset, he says, slipping under the car he is repairing.Read more: Delhiwale: Vasudev’s worldLooking at these open-air living spaces feels like entering a gated apartment complex without permission. The limited variety of domestic things arranged across the building’s exterior repeats itself in quick successions—individual clotheslines with bags and kitchen utensils. It is a bit similar to seeing a Gurugram residential high-rise, with its hundreds of flats duplicating each other’s lifestyle, though here the fellow citizens don’t have the luxury of roofs and rooms.The kitchen in each living quarter comprises spice boxes and cooking oil bottles arranged about tiny gas cylinders with single-burner stoves. The metal dinner plates lie on the ground, as if the evening’s table had already been laid out. Chakla-belan (rolling-pin and board) to make rotis are shoved into rusting bins.Read more: Delhiwale: Capital’s most beautiful door, perhapsA few places have overstuffed suitcases. A few doors have helmets hanging from them.The board at one end of the building terms the area an “authorised parking” with a disclaimer at the bottom, saying—“No responsibility of loosing parts like cash, bag, mobile phone etc.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-a-place-to-call-home-101613587365398.html
18-02-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC extends Eknath Khadse’s interim protection to February 24||The Bombay high court (HC) on Wednesday extended interim protection to Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader Eknath Khadse against coercive action by the Enforcement Directorate till February 24. The court took the decision after it was informed by Khadse that he apprehended being arrested on responding to the summons issued to him by the investigating agency under section 50 of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). Senior counsel Aabad Ponda, for Khadse, stressed on the fact that while responding to the summons if he refused to disclose any incriminating evidence or documents during the interrogation, then the agency would invoke the power vested in the said section to arrest him on the grounds of non-cooperation. In view of this, Khadse was seeking quashing of not only the summon issued to him on December 23 but the proceedings arising out of the enforcement case information report (ECIR) filed by ED. While hearing Khadse’s petition, the division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice Manish Pitale was informed by Ponda that Khadse was prompted to file the petition as he was apprehensive of being arrested in connection with the ECIR. He further said that though the NCP leader was not named in the ECIR, the report was prepared in view of the FIR registered against Khadse and others in the Bhosari land deal case at Pune. ED had, in an earlier hearing, through additional solicitor general Anil Singh submitted that the petition was not maintainable as the summons were actually show-cause proceedings and no appeal could lie against show cause proceedings. In response, Ponda submitted that the summons were issued by the ED director under section 50 of PMLA and hence the petition was valid. Singh then requested the court to allow the investigation agency to rely on previous judgements which held that petitions which challenged issuance of summons in show-cause proceedings were not maintainable, which the court allowed. After receiving an affirmative reply to whether ED will continue to not take coercive action, the court posted the petition for hearing on February 24.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-extends-eknath-khadse-s-interim-protection-to-february-24-101613587383073.html
18-02-2021||Mumbai||Thane civic body sets up call centre to meet vaccination target||The Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has set up a call centre to meet the daily immunisation target. A team of 12 people work at the call centre and make daily calls to 1,800 registered beneficiaries to prepare them for vaccination the next day. These callers also counsel those who have apprehensions to come for the immunisation. The civic body has also permitted walk-ins for registered healthcare and frontline workers. These measures have helped TMC to achieve a target of 97% immunisation, the highest in the district. The vaccination drive began on January 16 and by the first week of February, the city witnessed more than 100% immunisation with some centres going beyond the target set for the day. Gradually, the civic body also increased the number of vaccination centres to 12 and roped in private mid-level hospitals as well. “We have set up a team of 12 people who focus on calling the registered beneficiaries and preparing them for the vaccination process for the next day. Each person from this team makes around 150 calls per day. These calls also help understand if any individual has any apprehensions regarding the vaccine. We also counsel them and create awareness related to the vaccination process. As the call centre helps in reaching out to almost 2,000 beneficiaries, we can expect around 1,000 to 1,500 people to turn out on a daily basis; which helps us reach our target,” said Dr Raju Murudkar, medical health officer, Thane. With the start of the booster vaccination drive, the number of daily immunisation within Thane city has seen a dip. “In order to create awareness and ensure that the buzz related to the vaccines does not fade, we are urging senior officials to get vaccinated. This week, civic chief Vipin Sharma got vaccinated and two weeks ago commissioner of police Vivek Phansalkar got vaccinated. We are using various mediums to reach out to the public and highlight that the process does not have any major side effects,” added a senior health official from TMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/thane-civic-body-sets-up-call-centre-to-meet-vaccination-target-101613587203091.html
18-02-2021||Mumbai||Kalyan civic body blames CoWIN glitches for slow vaccination||With only 58% of vaccination target for healthcare, frontline and police department workers achieved in Kalyan Dombivli so far, the Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) claimed it was facing various glitches while operating CoWIN app. The application is used for registration, data entry and sending messages to Covid-19 vaccine beneficiaries.Civic officials said that staffers had to call up beneficiaries a number of times as the messages are not sent to them automatically through the app. The civic body, which is planning to start the second dose of vaccination, claimed those who have received the first dose, are not getting the messages. So far, KDMC has managed to give the second dose to 66 beneficiaries till Tuesday. “We have to send the messages to batches of people one after another as the messages are not sent automatically. This takes time, thus delaying the work. Those who have taken the first dose of vaccination should get the message for second dose automatically which is not happening,” said Ashwini Patil, data entry operator, KDMC. The employees also claimed the names of the beneficiaries are repeated, leading to confusion.“Sometimes even after a beneficiary is vaccinated, the name of that particular beneficiary is still seen in the list. This causes confusion; so we have to cross check and make changes accordingly and then call up some other beneficiary for vaccination,” added Patil. Apart from this, the app is also allegedly not allowing any fresh entry of healthcare workers, due to which the vaccination is delayed. Thane collector Rajesh Narvekar said,”There was technical issues earlier and we had reported about it. Now the app is working better way. However, since it is used all across the country, it sometimes has issues for time beingKDMC had on January 16, the first day of vaccination drive, met the target while getting all the work done manually.“With data entry of new health workers not happening on the app, we adjust them with frontline workers and give them the dose. We collect their data and try to do the entry later as the vaccination should not stop,” said an official from KDMC health department.According to KDMC records, 7,291 of the 9,075 listed health workers, which is 80% of the total target, have been vaccinated, and 1,499 of 8,856 frontline workers and police personnel, which is 23.7%, got vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/kalyan-civic-body-blames-cowin-glitches-for-slow-vaccination-101613586782783.html
18-02-2021||Other||Architects, urban design students to help Pune civic body to beautify roads||Architects, urban design students and practitioners will help the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) beautify the city’s roads.Recently, the civic body held a competition on innovative design solutions and received responses from at least 50 participants.Dinkar Gojare, superintendent engineer, PMC road department, said, “The purpose of the initiative is to provide better solutions to road design. We are developing roads under the urban street design guidelines.”“Under the Smart Cities Mission, the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs wants to collaborate with designers to develop proposals, engage citizens for feedback and build public support for walking and cycling initiatives,” he said.“We have received responses from 50 architects. Besides that, we are in a discussion with Abhinav Kala Mahavidyalaya to participate in the design competition and give us new ideas for better road design,” he said.Over the years, the civic body has engaged experienced urban designers through the Pune street design programme to transform nearly 100 kilometres of the city’s streets.Pune’s street design initiativeThe Pashan-Sus road and its neighbouring residential streets are being beautified under the design initiative. Architecture and urban design students and practitioners in the city can participate in the initiative. An expert jury panel will select three best designs and award ₹25,000, ₹15,000 and ₹10,000 respectively.The best solution or design will be tried and tested through collaboration with PMC for permanent implementation in the future.The city would integrate the design solutions through the process of tactical urbanism as well..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/architects-urban-design-students-to-help-pune-civic-body-to-beautify-roads-101613586183268.html
18-02-2021||Pune||Pune civic body to purchase 50 medium-sized AC buses||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) will purchase 50 medium-sized buses to keep its promise of starting an AC bus service for just Rs10 in crowded areas.Standing committee chairman Hemant Rasne said, “Standing committee approved Rs13.47 crore for purchasing 50 new medium-sized air conditioned buses. The price of each bus is Rs26.95 lakh.”Rasne said, “While presenting the 2019-20 budget, I introduced the scheme to start the bus service at the cost of Rs10 in the core areas of the city. Most of the old city areas are crowded and with narrow roads. Regular PMPML buses cannot ply on these routes, hence, we decided to purchase medium-sized buses.”PMC will purchase these buses and hand them over to the PMPML for operations. The bus ticket for these buses would be Rs10. “We are sure that this bus service will help bring down traffic problems in the city,” he said.The standing committee of the PMC had given nod for this proposal on February 16. With the elected members’ nod, the administration will now start the process of procuring these buses. The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is planning to start this bus facility in the next three-four months considering the upcoming municipal elections this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-civic-body-to-purchase-50-medium-sized-ac-buses-101613586181783.html
18-02-2021||Pune||Grape festival to be held in Junnar from February 19 to 21||The state government’s tourism department will host a three-day grape festival in Junnar, one of the tourism destinations in Maharashtra from February 19 to 21.The festival, according to officials, aims at placing Junnar grape yards as the most-sought-after tourist destination in the state and promote grape agro-tourism.Junnar festival is part of 20 small festivals through February and March organised by tourism department which will be held across six regions of the state - Pune, Nashik, Aurangabad, Nagpur, Konkan and Amravati.Supriya Karmarkar, deputy director, Pune region, said, “The tourists will be able to enjoy a special tour of farm-fresh grapes, consume and purchase beverages on the spot and witness the entire wine-making process at the festival.”“We will have a variety of grapes and grape products such as raisins, black currents, grape juice among others. Tourists will also get an opportunity to purchase freshly-plucked grapes directly from the farm,” he said.“It is an excellent way of helping the grape harvesters extend their reach while giving a chance for them to meet and exchange experience with tourists, experts and business enterprises. To get the first-hand experience of the festival, the participants must register can register till February 18. They can visit https://bit.ly/3tUCoQL and fill the form to participate,” she added.Some of the key attractions of the festival will include local food and rural rides, heritage walks and enthralling cultural programs. Their itinerary will comprise visits to less explored places such as grape farm visit, Junnar heritage walk, winery visit, Naneghat, boating, Ozar Ganpati temple, Gibson statue, Lenyadri Ganpati Temple, Tamhane Museum, Amba- Ambika caves and Junnar weekly market.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/grape-festival-to-be-held-in-junnar-from-february-19-to-21-101613586123360.html
18-02-2021||Other||State sanctions ₹33.50 crore to redevelop Mahabaleshwar on the lines of Manali, Shimla||In a bid to redevelop Mahabaleshwar on the lines of Shimla and Manali, Maharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar has sanctioned ₹33.50 crore for the hill station.Mahabaleshwar along with Wai and Panchgani are few prominent tourists destinations in Maharashtra where people from Pune and Mumbai come in large number.“The walls and signboards will be painted with the same colour to maintain uniformity, while main roads and lanes of hill station will be developed on the lines of “Mall road” in Manali,” said Pawar after a meeting held on Tuesday in Mumbai when tourism minister Aditya Thackeray and others were also present.Announcing the decision, Pawar in his tweet said, “Orders have been given to immediately start the redevelopment work of tourism development in Mahabaleshwar. While doing this the beauty of old infrastructure and buildings will be retained, also underground work of water pipelines will be done. There will be separate space given for the parking lots for the tourists.”“To attract tourists at various spots street lighting will be done. The historical “Petit Library” in Mahabaleshwar will be renovated under this project,” said Pawar.Throughout the year tourists visit Mahabaleshwar and various points in and around the town.Last year due to Covid-19 pandemic all the tourist’s spots were closed down for public due to state government’s orders. Now gradually the tourist destinations and hotels are opening up for tourism purpose.Suryakant Jadhav, vice-president, Mahabaleshwar hotel owners association, said, “It is necessary to redevelop the hill station. Our only demand is that the state government while undertaking the project should take local shop owners in confidence and keep a check that less space of shops is acquired for the project.“There is a need for washrooms for tourists in Poonam chowk, as most of the time tourists go back to the hotel and if public toilets come up here it will be beneficial for shop owners and hoteliers,” he said.“Also, road construction work undertaken from Venna Lake toll naka to Mahabaleshwar market and Kshetra Mahabaleshwar road via Venna lake dam flyover bridge to Panchagani road should be completed soon. This will solve the traffic issue in the area,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/state-sanctions-rs-33-50-crore-to-redevelop-mahabaleshwar-on-the-lines-of-manali-shimla-101613586122746.html
18-02-2021||Pune||Taste of life: How an Italian barfi became a pop cultural icon in the Puneri peths||Around 1880, Federico Peliti, renowned Italian pastry chef and caterer living in India, went on a trip with a group of Italian friends to the island of Elephanta, a few miles from the coast of Mumbai. Known for his ability to serve a perfect lunch anywhere, he had brought with him everything he needed to prepare a grand feast on the island. He took a photograph which portrayed him in the company of his wife, his guests and some of the Indian servants against the backdrop of the island’s rupestrian temples. The element that strikes the most in this photograph is the presence of two male figures in the centre mimicking the typical Neapolitan gesture of eating spaghetti, pulling it up with their hands.Before the nineteenth century, the stereotype of Italians eating pasta was already widespread outside Italy. The stereotype, as it normally happens, was constructed by non-Italians, to identify and in some way mock the newcomers and their “strange” eating habits. However, the situation of the Italians in India was poles apart from that of their compatriots who immigrated to, say, America. In Anglo-Indian society, Italians were associated with a completely different food – sweets. And they were well aware that they were often identified with their pastry shops in Calcutta, Bombay and Poona. Therefore, a choice of pasta as a metaphor for Italian identity, as can be seen from the photograph by Peliti, can be attributed to the perception that Italians had of themselves and of their food culture, and to the desire to represent themselves and therefore, stand out through it, in India.Food acts as an essential cultural symbol on an individual as well as collective level. In India, the Italian confectioners were never a part of large or small local communities, hence, they were able to fully reproduce the food of their motherland. Since their clientele mostly comprised Europeans and the Indian elite, they and their pastry shops and restaurants were largely unknown to the natives. An exception to this was Enrico Muratore. While several celebrities like V Shantaram, Vishram Bedekar, PK Atre would regularly dine at Muratore’s, it was out of bounds for most of the population of Poona living in the peths. Still, Muratore and his pastries became part of the local pop culture in the first half of the 20th century.Muratore was an Italian migrant who started his confectionery and bakery on Main Street in Camp around 1898. He soon expanded his business to start a restaurant on the same premises and later shifted to East Street where Kwality restaurant and Kayani bakery are located today.Muratore was of course known for his confections and these confections became a symbol of “liberal, progressive, Western, and hence anti-religion and anti-national values”, as perceived by the locals. “Usha”, a Marathi magazine published from Mumbai, carried a short story written by one “Balwant Gopal” in February, 1932. The hero of this story travels to Germany to study. Upon his return to Poona after spending a few years in Berlin, his father insists that he travel to Nashik and perform certain religious rituals to “purify” himself. His wife refuses to talk to him till he seeks atonement (crossing the ocean, eating non-vegetarian food being the sins!). Our hero refuses. He quotes GG Agarkar and MG Ranade, the early Indian progressives. His father, a staunch follower of Tilak, reminds him of the virtues of “true Indian values”. He is finally made to leave his house when his father finds out that his son has been secretly dining at Muratore’s twice a week. The story ends by cautioning the readers about the perils of “Western” education and popularity of European and Irani restaurants.While a few other stories published in Marathi magazines like “Kirloskar”, “Mouj” and “Vasudha” mentioned Muratore and linked it with “liberal and Western” values, the real claim to fame (or notoriety!) was the mention of “Muratorechi barfi” (Muratore’s pastry) in songs specially composed for Ganeshotsav in Poona.The famed Ganesh festival in the early part of the last century was also known for its several song and dance troupes, known as Ganpati Mele. Children and young men who were part of these groups would sing songs and dance during the ten days of the festival. The songs were meant to inculcate patriotism and valour in the hearts and minds of the young and the old and make them aware of certain social issues. The songs often ridiculed and denigrated women who sought education, young men who frequented clubs and restaurants, widows who remarried, and progressive, liberal leaders like GK Gokhale and Pherozeshah Mehta.I have come across six songs sung by Shilimkar mela, Navtarun mela and Gopal mela which chided youth for embracing “modern” values. The youth in these songs all had a thing for “Muratorechi barfi’”. As the songs suggested, these young men espoused liberal values and hence, were anti-national. That the pastry baked by an Italian confectioner would be called by an indigenous name (barfi) and would symbolise values which went against popular, conservative beliefs is truly interesting. But, this is not the only interesting story about E Muratore and his restaurant. The Second World War triggered a chain of events that resulted in Muratore shutting down a few years after India gained independence. That story is for next week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/taste-of-life-how-an-italian-barfi-became-a-pop-cultural-icon-in-the-puneri-peths-101613586121818.html
18-02-2021||Delhi||PWD gets notice for demolition waste on forest department land||The Delhi forest department has issued a restraining order to the public works department (PWD) to stop it from dumping construction and debris waste on a green belt near Brar Square in Delhi Cantonment, which is deemed forest land.Officials of the PWD did not comment on the order.The order, issued by deputy conservator of forests (DCF- west zone) Navneet Srivastava on February 11, said the PWD was found “dumping construction waste/malba inside the green belt located near Brar Square railway crossing on the Ring Road”.It further said, “..the green area on the said road (inner Ring Road) is a deemed forest and dumping construction waste in the said area is a violation of Section 2 of the Forest Conservation Act (1980).”The order stated that the PWD is restrained from “all kinds of construction work/dumping construction waste on the entire inner Ring Road with immediate effect”.In Delhi’s context, “an area above 2.5 acres having a density of 100 trees per acre as well as green stretches along roads and drains having a length of one kilometre” are considered deemed forests.According to the rules, to undertake any “non-forest related activity” in such area, permission has to be sought from the Union ministry of environment, forest and climate change.The green belt near the Brar Square railway station features in the original list of areas identified as deemed forest land, in an affidavit submitted by the Delhi forest department in 1997 before the Supreme Court in the TN Godavarman Thirumulpad vs Union of India case. In any case, any area that fulfils the conditions of the definition of ”deemed forest” is to be protected by the forest department.Further, dumping of construction waste is not just prohibited on forest land but is also illegal in any public space, according to the Delhi Municipal Corporation ActThe forest department order came on a complaint received by the office of the deputy conservator of forests, stating that on November 4, 2020, the PWD was found undertaking “some kind of earth levelling work by dumping construction and demolition waste on the green belt”.Such activity was also noticed on November 19 and then again on December 10, according to the complaint.A follow-up on that complaint, sent on January 20, 2021, asserted that the activity was still continuing.Deputy conservator of forests Srivastava said no fine has been imposed on the PWD yet. “We have not levied any monetary penalty yet. The matter is being investigated now. Since the restraining order was issued, no fresh dumping has been noticed at the site,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/forest-dept-issues-restraining-order-to-pwd-for-dumping-construction-waste-on-forest-land-101613584562416.html
18-02-2021||Delhi||Delhi government leans on poll data for scaling up vaccine centres||The Delhi government will be using booth level poll data for further scaling up of Covid-19 vaccination centres to ensure a proportionate distribution of sites across the city, before the drive is opened to people aged over 50 years, which is likely to happen by mid-March, said senior government officials on Wednesday.The government estimates suggest that there are 4.24 million people in Delhi who are aged over 50 years. This is the biggest priority group in terms of numbers and opening up the vaccination drive to them would require a major scaling up of sites. The numbers are being fed into the database from the electoral rolls. Booth level poll data will be used to ensure proportionate distribution of vaccination sites -- areas which have more beneficiaries will get more centres,” said the government official who did not wish to be identified, adding that the government is likely to open up the vaccination drive to the 50+ group by mid-March.Currently, the vaccination drive is open to health workers (240,000 registered beneficiaries) and front-line workers (450,000 registered beneficiaries) – and 228,290 of them have been vaccinated so far, government records show.Read more: 'Karnataka will go to square one': Minister on lockdown amid Covid clusters in BengaluruThe national capital currently has 261 functional Covid-19 vaccination centres of which 228 administer Covishield vaccine -- the Indian variation of the Oxford/AstraZeneca vaccine that is manufactured by the Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) – and the others administer Covaxin, which was developed by Bharat Biotech, an Indian firm. On January 16, when the vaccination drive was rolled out across the country, Delhi had started with 81 sites.A second official, also on condition of anonymity, said the government is likely to further break up the 50+ category into smaller chunks in terms of age and prioritise the most elderly of them. “Several recent meetings have discussed this issue but specific directions are awaited from the Union ministry,” said the official.The second official further said that once vaccination of people aged over 50 years begins, the government will also be setting help desks where eligible people can get themselves registered on their own – by submitting documents that qualify as proof of residence.Read more: Fewest new Covid-19 cases in Delhi since April 30By late-March, the government also plans to start vaccinating people with comorbidities (such as blood pressure and hypertension). They are still ascertaining the number of such people from the findings of the socio-economic survey conducted in 2019, health surveys conducted during the pandemic, hospital data, and records of several government departments, said the second official.Dr K Srinath Reddy, president , Public Health Foundation of India, said, “Using granular data to scale up vaccination capacity is a good way to ensure maximum coverage with minimum inconvenience. Also, elderly people are more vulnerable to Covid-19. With age, the probability of having comorbidities is higher and the body’s immune system weakens. It would be a good strategy to further break down the beneficiary group of people aged over 50 years into smaller segments and prioritise the most elderly of them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-to-use-poll-data-for-better-distribution-of-vaccine-sites-for-50-plus-category-101613584505022.html
18-02-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Vasudev’s world||The night is cold. Vasudev has rustled out a small fire from wooden twigs he picked up from the pavement. Dressed in cap and woollen overcoat, he is fortifying himself with a glass of steaming ginger chai. He is alone in his tea stall, which lies on the roadside, midway between Hauz Khas village and Aurobindo Market in south Delhi.The establishment is very modest but very comfortable. A plank of cement laid across two chunks of concrete serves as a seat for customers. The boundary wall on the back is crowded with idols of many gods, giving the stall a homely feel, as if this open space were part of a cosy god-loving household. And even in the dark, you can sense the shadows of the many dogs milling about—they all are strays, but they feel loved here.Read more: Delhiwale| Capital’s most beautiful door, perhapsPointing each of the shadows one by one, Vasudev says, “That’s Cheeku, Tiger, Meena—she is a lady, and Sheru.” Vasudev looks after their well-being. “Each day I buy one litre of milk, four packets of bread and a few packets of ‘biskuts’ for them,” he says in a flat tone, implying that these expenses are facts of life and thus non-negotiable.A long-time resident of Hauz Khas village, Vasudev, 62 and a native of Madhubani in Bihar, founded his stall 35 years ago. This is like a fraction of a second compared to the centuries-old monuments scattered across this area. But compared to the highly unstable nightlife scene of the village, Vasudev’s stall is an ancestor to most of cafes and restaurants.Read more: Delhiwale| Paradise in the midst of rosesHe lives with his two sons, whom he raised as a single parent. “My wife, Seema Devi, died of a heart attack 25 years ago,” he says, drinking down the last dregs of chai from his glass.Now Vasudev gets up, quietly fills up a large bowl with milk and bread, and walks towards one of the dogs sitting under a tree. “It’s his dinner time.” After serving the other strays their dinner, Vasudev will close the stall and walk home. His sons, back from work, will be waiting for him with freshly cooked dal chawal. His stall is open daily from 6am to 10pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-vasudev-s-world-101613497265011.html
18-02-2021||Other||47 killed as bus falls into 20-ft canal in MP||At least 47 passengers were killed after an overcrowded and overspeeding bus run by a private agency plunged into a 20-foot-deep canal in Madhya Pradesh’s Sidhi district on Tuesday, officials said.Preliminary investigations suggest that the driver of the 32-seater bus, which was carrying around 60 people, had taken a short-cut and was driving at a high speed, police said.While seven passengers were rescued, the driver and at least five others were missing till the time of going to press.Of the 47 deceased, 24 are men, 21 women and two children, Umesh Joga, inspector general of police, Rewa, said.Half of the victims were between 20 and 30 years and headed for Satna and Rewa for a government recruitment exam, Joga said. It took rescuers about three hours to locate the bus, which fell into the Bansagar Canal, due to heavy water flow, he said.Read more: PM announces ex-gratia of ₹2 lakh for MP’s Sidhi accident victims’ kinThirty-seven bodies were found trapped in the bus, while 10 were fished out of the canal, he added. The survivors were admitted to a hospital in Rewa, where their condition is said to be stable.The accident took place in Piprav village of the district while the bus was on its way from Sidhi to Satna.“…it was found that the driver took a short route as there was a traffic jam on the regular road...The job aspirants, who were in the bus, were requesting the driver to increase the speed as they were getting late for the exam. The driver lost control and the bus plunged into a canal,” Pankaj Kumawat, SP, Sidhi, said.“A 17-year-old girl, Shivrani Loniya, and her brother, Ramprasad, who live near the canal, helped at least seven people come out of water. Loniya informed the others that a bus has fallen into the canal.”The bus was running at a very high speed when the driver lost the control, Loniya told reporters at the accident site. “…we jumped into the canal to save the passengers, but could save only seven people who managed to come out of the bus,” she said.Watch: Madhya Pradesh bus accident: Over 45 dead, PM Modi announces ex-gratiaRewa divisional commissioner Rajesh Jain said the bus, owned by a private travel agency, had “about five dozen people” on board.“The permit of the bus has been cancelled. A magisterial inquiry has been ordered into the matter,” he said. Transport minister Govind Singh Rajput announced a separate inquiry into the accident.PM Narendra Modi extended condolences to the affected families. “PM @narendramodi has approved an ex-gratia of ₹2 lakh each from PM’s National Relief Fund for the next of kin of those who have lost their lives due to the bus accident in Sidhi. ₹50,000 would be given to those seriously injured,” the Prime Minister’s Office tweeted.Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan announced an ex-gratia of ₹5 lakh each to the families of the deceased.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/four-killed-50-missing-after-bus-falls-into-canal-in-mp-101613455915583.html
18-02-2021||World||Experts warn against Covid-19 variants as states reopen in US||As states lift mask rules and ease restrictions on restaurants and other businesses because of falling case numbers, public health officials say authorities are overlooking potentially more dangerous Covid-19 variants that are quietly spreading through the USScientists widely agree that the US simply doesn’t have enough of a handle on the variants to roll back public health measures and is at risk of fumbling yet another phase of the pandemic after letting the virus rage through the country over the last year and kill nearly 500,000 people.“Now is not the time to fully open up," said Karthik Gangavarapu, a researcher at Scripps Research Institute whose team works closely with San Diego health officials to watch for mutant versions of the coronavirus. “We need to still be vigilant.”Over the past two weeks, the daily averages for both coronavirus cases and deaths have dropped by about half in the US, according to data from Johns Hopkins University. And as of Wednesday, over 40 million people — about 12% of the population — had received at least one dose of a vaccine.But experts including Dr. Anthony Fauci and CDC Director Dr. Rochelle Walensky say the downward trend could reverse itself if new variants take hold.The problem, as experts see it, is that the US has been slow to ramp up a rigorous genetic surveillance system for tracking the variants’ spread and measuring how much of a foothold they have gained here.“The fact of the matter is we’re kind of in the dark,” said Dr. Diane Griffin, who studies infectious diseases at Johns Hopkins. She said the variants are “probably widespread even if we don’t know it.”On Wednesday, the Biden administration announced it will spend $200 million for the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention to triple its levels of genetic sequencing to identify mutations that might make the coronavirus more infectious or more deadly. Separately, Congress is considering a bill that would provide $1.75 billion for such work.A more contagious and possibly more deadly variant that was first identified in Britain has been found in at least 42 states. Other variants first detected in South Africa and Brazil have been been reported across the US in low numbers. The South Africa one is especially worrisome because of evidence it may diminish the effectiveness of the vaccines.“We’re chasing a moving target. It’s changing a little too fast for comfort,” said Dr. Lucio Miele a geneticist at LSU Health Sciences in New Orleans. “We need to be proactive. We’re not invulnerable.”Detecting variants and knowing where and how widely they are spreading could be critical to preventing another deadly wave of Covid-19 like the one that overwhelmed hospitals this winter.In Europe in late 2020, once surveillance began flagging variants like the one that was causing cases to rage out of control and overwhelm hospitals in England, governments across the continent responded by imposing strict travel restrictions and lockdowns.But in the US, the emergence of variants has been met with a shrug among many state and local officials amid the overall drop-off in confirmed infections.Florida, for example, has the country's highest tally of cases of the British variant, according to the CDC. But state leaders seem to have already moved on from the coronavirus, including Gov. Ron DeSantis.When asked about the rise of new strains last week, DeSantis told reporters, “The media is worried about that, obviously. You guys really love that.”Florida has repealed many restrictions and hosted 25,000 fans for the Super Bowl in Tampa and 30,000 spectators at the Daytona 500 a week later in what was the largest sporting event in the nation since the start of the pandemic.Restrictions are also being eased in California, which is recovering from a surge of Covid-19 that overran its hospital system in recent months. California officials expect a substantial number of counties to be allowed to offer limited-capacity indoor dining and open up theaters, museums and gyms. The state is also reporting the country's second-highest case count for the British variant.Elsewhere, states such as North Dakota, Montana, Iowa have lifted mask mandates in recent weeks, and many more have eased restrictions on businesses like restaurants, bars and stores.Public health experts say part of the problem is that the latest statistics may be misleading. The CDC, for example, has reported only about 1,300 cases of emerging variants nationwide.“That is an undercount,” said Johns Hopkins epidemiologist Dr. Caitlin Rivers. She and others say that figure reflects the country's underdeveloped genetic surveillance system.Local health authorities are facing the same statistical problem.Last month, Minnesota was the first state to detect the Covid-19 variant identified in Brazil. By testing about 2% to 3% of the state’s positive Covid-19 samples, Minnesota's Department of Health has since identified two cases of the Brazilian variant and 40 of the British one.“It is somewhat a meaningless number,” said Kathy Como-Sabetti, an epidemiology manager for the health department. “It is a small fraction of our total number of cases.”Como-Sabetti said the state is bracing for a potential wave of illness if variants proliferate unchecked.Some scientist have called for the US to test about about 5% of positive Covid-19 samples — which, this week, would represent about 3,900 sequences — to stay on top of variants. Currently, the US sequences between 0.3% to 0.5% of virus samples. Britain sequences about 8% of its positive cases and Denmark around 12%.“We are woefully behind when it comes to sequencing technology,” Miele said.In the meantime, Chicago and surrounding suburbs allowed indoor dining to resume in January for the first time since October and reopened, with crowd limits, major cultural attractions including the Field Museum and Shedd Aquarium. Boston opened up gyms, movie theaters and sightseeing harbor cruises this month.New York City restaurants got the green light to open for indoor dining last week, despite concern from some local officials.“Are we defying the global pattern of variants doubling every 10 days?" tweeted City Council member Mark D. Levy. "Or are variants in fact growing here and we just aren’t being told?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/experts-warn-against-covid-19-variants-as-states-reopen-in-us-101613672085498.html
18-02-2021||World||NATO chief urges Afghan govt, Taliban to step up peace talks||NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg on Thursday urged the Afghan government and the Taliban to step up the pace of peace talks amid doubts over whether the military alliance will pull thousands of troops out of the country by a May deadline.NATO has just under 10,000 troops in the war-ravaged country, helping to train and advise the Afghan security forces. Most are not US forces, but those troops could not continue the NATO operation if American transport, logistics and other support were withdrawn.President Joe Biden is reviewing his predecessor’s 2020 deal with the Taliban, which includes a May 1 deadline for a final US troop withdrawal. In Washington, calls are mounting for the United States to delay the final exit or renegotiate the deal to allow the presence of a smaller, intelligence-based American force.“The problem is that we are in a situation where we have a date — the 1st of May — approaching and so far we have seen that the peace talks are fragile,” Stoltenberg said after chairing a meeting of NATO defense ministers, including new US Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin.“The talks are fragile, and progress is slow. So, it is now imperative to re-energize the peace process,” Stoltenberg said, referring to the stalled negotiations in Qatar between the Afghan government and the Taliban.Violence is also spiking and culprits include the Taliban, the Islamic State group, warlords and criminal gangs. Earlier Thursday, two lecturers at Kabul University were killed when a bomb attached to the car they were traveling in went off. No group immediately claimed responsibility.None of the 30 NATO member governments has publicly argued that security conditions are right for a withdrawal, and many allies would probably support a longer stay if the US requires it, diplomats say.“At this stage, we have made no final decision on the future of our presence,” Stoltenberg said.With the US review ongoing it’s unlikely that any firm decision on the future of NATO’s operation will be made before the organization’s foreign ministers meet in mid-March.Asked whether NATO might, on the contrary, increase troops numbers, Stoltenberg said that “we will do what is necessary to make sure that our troops are safe. We have adjusted the troop numbers before, but I will not speculate because now the focus is on making sure that the peace talks are successful.”NATO took control of international security operations in Afghanistan in 2003, two years after a US-led coalition ousted the Taliban for harboring former Al Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden. It’s the military alliance’s longest, costliest, and most ambitious operation ever.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nato-chief-urges-afghan-govt-taliban-to-step-up-peace-talks-101613671745020.html
18-02-2021||World||Texas power outages below 500,000 but water crisis persists||Power was restored to more Texans on Thursday, with fewer than a half-million homes remaining without electricity, and many still were without safe drinking water after winter storms wreaked havoc on the state's power grid and utilities this week.Meanwhile, the Appalachians, northern Maryland and southern Pennsylvania braced for heavy snow and ice. Snow fell in Connecticut, New Jersey and New York.Little Rock, Arkansas, got 15 inches (38 centimeters) of snow in back-to-back storms, tying a 1918 record, the National Weather Service said.More than 320,000 homes and businesses were without power in Louisiana, Mississippi and Alabama. In Tennessee, 12 people were rescued from boats after a dock weighed down by snow and ice collapsed on the Cumberland River on Wednesday night, the Nashville Fire Department said.The extreme weather has been blamed for the deaths of more than three dozen people, some of whom perished while struggling to keep warm. In the Houston area, one family succumbed to carbon monoxide from car exhaust in their garage. A woman and her three grandchildren died in a fire that authorities said might have been caused by a fireplace they were using.In Texas, just under 500,000 homes and businesses remained without power, down from about 3 million on Wednesday. The state's grid manager, the Electric Reliability Council of Texas, said the remaining outages are largely weather-related, rather than forced outages that were made early Monday to stabilize the power grid.“We will keep working around the clock until every single customer has their power back on,” said ERCOT Senior Director of System Operations Dan Woodfin.Adding to the misery, the weather jeopardized the state's drinking water systems.Texas officials ordered 7 million people — a quarter of the population of the nation’s second-largest state — to boil tap water before drinking it, following days of record low temperatures that damaged infrastructure and froze pipes.Some Austin hospitals faced a loss in water pressure and heat.“Because this is a state-wide emergency situation that is also impacting other hospitals within the Austin area, no one hospital currently has the capacity to accept transport of a large number of patients,” said David Huffstutler, CEO of St. David's South Austin Medical Center.Water pressure has fallen because lines have frozen, and many people left faucets dripping in hopes of preventing pipes from icing over, said Toby Baker, executive director of the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality.Gov. Greg Abbott urged residents to shut off water to their homes, if possible, to prevent more busted pipes and preserve pressure in municipal systems.At Houston Methodist, two of its community hospitals did not have running water but still treated patients, with most non-emergency surgeries and procedures canceled for Thursday and possibly Friday, said spokeswoman Gale Smith.Pipes had burst in Methodist’s hospitals but were being repaired as they happened, Smith said.Texas Children’s Hospital’s main campus at the Texas Medical Center and another location had low water pressure, but the system was adequately staffed and patients had enough water and “are safe and comfortable,” spokeswoman Jenn Jacome said.The hospitals were “all experiencing very crowded emergency rooms due to patients being unable to meet their medical needs at home without electricity,” she said.Weather-related outages also struck Oregon, where some customers have been without power for almost a week. A Portland supermarket threw its perishable food into dumpsters, leading to a clash between scavengers and police.The damage to the power system was the worst in 40 years, said Maria Pope, CEO of Portland General Electric. At the peak of the storm, more than 350,000 customers in the Portland area were in the dark. More than 100,000 customers remained without power Thursday in Oregon.“These are the most dangerous conditions we’ve ever seen in the history of PGE,” said Dale Goodman, director of utility operations, who declined to predict when all customers would have power restored.Utilities from Minnesota to Texas have implemented rolling blackouts to ease the burden on strained power grids. Southwest Power Pool, a group of utilities covering 14 states from the Dakotas to the Texas Panhandle, said rolling blackouts were no longer needed but asked customers to conserve energy until at least 10 p.m. Saturday.The weather also disrupted water systems in several Southern cities, including New Orleans and Shreveport, Louisiana, where fire trucks delivered water to hospitals and bottled water was brought in for patients and staff, Shreveport television station KSLA reported.Power was cut to a New Orleans facility that pumps drinking water from the Mississippi River. A spokeswoman for the Sewerage and Water Board said on-site generators were used until electricity was restored.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/texas-power-outages-below-500-000-but-water-crisis-persists-101613671370848.html
18-02-2021||World||Lawmakers face off with GameStop saga's key players||Key players in the GameStop saga are testifying to a House committee Thursday. Lawmakers are examining whether the wild swings in the stock price of the video game retailer exposed conflicts in the market's structure that can hurt unsophisticated investors.The episode has been portrayed as a victory of the little guy over Wall Street titans, but not everyone is buying it. Lawmakers from both parties are among the skeptics.GameStop shares soared 1,600% in January before falling back to Earth. The drama entangled huge short-selling hedge funds, a social media message board and ordinary investors wanting in on the hottest new trade.The head of the Financial Services Committee, Rep. Maxine Waters, D-Calif., opened the hearing by saying the GameStop drama "has put a maximum spotlight on institutional practices by Wall Street firms,” and potential conflicts of interest.“Many Americans feel that the system is stacked against them and no matter what Wall Street always wins.”The panel’s senior Republican, Rep. Patrick McHenry of North Carolina, put forward conservatives’ view that the GameStop episode shouldn’t be used by Washington to bring new regulations on the markets.Among those testifying remotely are Vlad Tenev, CEO of Robinhood, which operates an online trading platform that is popular with individual investors. In his opening testimony, Tenev defended Robinhood against allegations that trading restrictions it put in place disadvantaged those smaller investors in favor of bigger institutional clients.“Any allegation that Robinhood acted to help hedge funds or other special interests to the detriment of our customers is absolutely false and market-distorting rhetoric,” Tenev said in written testimony prepared for the hearing.Tenev said Robinhood imposed the trading restrictions solely to meet capital requirements set by regulators. Still, he apologized to Robinhood customers.“Despite the unprecedented market conditions in January, at the end of the day, what happened is unacceptable to us. To our customers, I apologize, and please know we are doing everything we can to make sure this can’t happen again.”Also appearing is Keith Gill, who earned a handsome profit and a legion of online followers for making the case for GameStop shares on Reddit and YouTube long before the big surge in the price in January. Gill, known as Roaring Kitty on YouTube, is known for his cat-themed T-shirts and a bright red runner’s headband in widely followed videos.For the hearing, Gill wore a jacket and tie, although the headband could be seen hanging on poster of a kitten with the words "Hang in There.As they question Tenev and other witnesses, lawmakers will look to see if there was manipulation of any kind in the GameStop trading frenzy or other conflicts that put smaller investors at a disadvantage.“We don’t know whether it will just be warnings versus actual findings in terms of (stock) manipulation. That’s going to take time,” Quincy Krosby, chief market strategist at Prudential Financial, said in an interview Wednesday. “It’s clear the concern is there. We’ll see how the (Biden) administration handles this.”Gill told lawmakers that he reaped a profit on his investment because he did his homework, and not because he touted the stock to “unwitting investors,” according to his prepared remarks.“I did not solicit anyone to buy or sell the stock for my own profit,” Gill said. “I had no information about GameStop except what was public.”Also appearing is Ken Griffin, the CEO of Citadel, one of the biggest hedge funds and a large client of Robinhood.Griffin told the panel that Citadel “had no role in Robinhood’s decision to limit trading in GameStop or any of the other meme stocks.” Besides GameStop, shares in companies such as AMC Entertainment and Blackberry saw unusual volume and price spikes.Hedge funds, which cater to the uber-rich, command trillions in assets are are known by their penchant for risk and prolific use of short-selling. Griffin is politically influential and has been a heavy donor to Republican politicians.With short-selling, investors bet a stock’s price will drop. Defenders of the practice say it’s a tool for uncovering a stock’s true value and hedging against possible losses.Chicago-based Citadel stepped in with a few other funds to rescue Melvin Capital Management after it sustained billions in losses on its GameStop bets. Gabriel Plotkin, Melvin Capital’s founder and chief investment officer, also is scheduled to appear for the hearing.Steve Huffman, the CEO and co-founder of Reddit, said that its WallStreetBets forum at the heart of the GameStop drama “is first and foremost a real community."As the frenzy escalated, the acting head of the Securities and Exchange Commission said the agency is examining the trading restrictions imposed by Robinhood and other online brokerages as well as possible stock manipulation, and the role that short-selling may have played in GameStop’s extreme price swings.The small investors were seen as the winners after they mobilized against Wall Street heavies on the subreddit. Their buying swelled the share prices of GameStop and other beaten-down companies beyond anyone’s imagination. Not coincidentally, it inflicted billions in losses on the hedge funds that had placed bets that the stocks would drop.The populist traders’ strategy was risky. GameStop stock plunged 60%, to $90 on Feb. 2, wiping out hundreds of thousands of dollars in a few hours. The stock dropped another 42%, to $53, on Feb. 4 and currently trades around $44, still more than double their value at the start of the year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/lawmakers-face-off-with-gamestop-saga-s-key-players-101613671041228.html
18-02-2021||World||US lawmakers to unveil legislation to overhaul immigration||US lawmakers will introduce on Thursday a comprehensive immigration reform bill that will seek to pave the way to citizenship for undocumented immigrants and, of interest to those from India, cut the wait time for green cards and allow dependents of some H-1B visa holders to work in the country.The legislation, entitled the US Citizenship Act of 2021, will be introduced in the House by Representatives by Linda Sanchez and in the Senate by Bob Menendez.It mirrors President Joe Biden’s immigration legislation, outlined in an announcement the day he took office on January 20.This is the first attempt at a comprehensive immigration reform since 2013, when the measure put together by a bipartisan group passed the Senate with overwhelming support. But it collapsed because the House refused to even consider it. The last successful immigration reform was 30 years ago.That’s the headwind faced by the Citizenship Act 2021. Republicans have already expressed reservations; their support will be critical to the passage of the legislation and enactment.The bill establishes an eight-year path to citizenship for undocumented immigrants who arrived in the US by January 1, an estimated 11 million. And an expedited process for farmworkers or those fleeing dangerous conditions in home countries, and to immigrants brought unlawfully as children.Most importantly for Indians seeking US citizenship through work-based or family-linked visas, the country limit will be removed, which can keep some Indian-origin applicants in queue for green cards for decades. The legislation, the text of which will be released by its co-sponsors later, will reflect these elements from Biden’s January 20 announcement: make it easier for graduates of US universities with advanced STEM degrees to stay; and eliminate other “unnecessary hurdles for employment-based green cards”. The bill also provides dependents of H-1B visa holders work authorisation, and children are prevented from “aging out” of the system.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-lawmakers-to-unveil-legislation-to-overhaul-immigration-101613670463765.html
18-02-2021||World||At Quad meeting, US reaffirms commitment to ‘free’ Indo-Pacific||The Biden administration on Thursday reiterated Washington’s commitment to an annual meeting of the foreign ministers of the Quad countries — with India, Japan and Australia — and its central cause of ensuring a “free and open Indo-Pacific region”, while India highlighted “practical cooperation in different domains to give our agenda a concrete shape”.US secretary of state Antony Blinken met his counterparts — India’s S Jaishankar, Australia’s Marise Payne and Japan’s Toshimitsu Motegi— virtually. This was Blinken’s first Quad engagement and took place amid talk of a first summit-level meeting of the informal grouping that is said to be mulling steps towards formalising its engagements. At least one annual meeting of the foreign ministers, which was announced in 2020, is a step in that direction. The United States is said to be pushing for it and an announcement to this effect is awaited. The four ministers discussed “cooperation on Covid-19 response and recovery and climate change and committed to working together to address these global challenges”, state department spokesperson Ned Price said in a readout of the meeting.They also discussed “countering disinformation, counterterrorism, maritime security, and the urgent need to restore the democratically elected government” in Myanmar, which witnessed a military coup earlier this month.The Biden administration signed on to the other elements of the Quad by reaffirming their mutual support for ASEAN centrality, which has been a key Indian position. “They reiterated their commitment to the Quad meeting at least annually at the ministerial level and on a regular basis at senior and working levels to strengthen cooperation on advancing a free and open Indo-Pacific region, including support for freedom of navigation and territorial integrity.”External affairs minister Jaishankar said in a tweet after the meeting: “Our positive agenda underlines our shared commitment to global good. Discussed contemporary challenges, especially impact of Covid19.”He added: “Exchanged perspectives on regional issues across the Indo-Pacific. Highlighted practical cooperation in different domains to give our agenda a concrete shape.”The timing of the Quad ministerial appeared to be aimed at indicating the Biden administration buy-in — the last ministerial took place in October 2020 — to the grouping and in line with its emphasis on working with allies and partners, reversing the Trump administration’s tendency to go it alone, sometimes by questioning and alienating longstanding allies and alliances. Blinken was to meet other allied groups on Thursday such as the so-called E-3, comprising France, Germany and the United Kingdom later in the day. On Monday, he is scheduled to participate in the European Union’s foreign affairs council at the invitation of EU High Representative Josep Borrell, Price said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/at-quad-meeting-us-reaffirms-commitment-to-free-indopacific-101613669924051.html
18-02-2021||World||Pfizer plans to test Covid-19 vaccine booster made for South African variant||A top Pfizer Inc scientist said on Thursday the company is in intensive discussions with regulators to test a booster shot version of its coronavirus vaccine specifically targeted for a highly contagious variant that is spreading widely in South Africa and elsewhere.Phil Dormitzer, one of Pfizer's top viral vaccine scientists, said in an interview that he believes the current vaccine - developed with Germany's BioNTech SE - is highly likely to still protect against the concerning variant first discovered in South Africa."We're not doing that primarily because we think that that means that we're going to need to change that vaccine," he said. "It's primarily to learn how to change strain, both in terms of what we do at the manufacturing level, and especially what the clinical results are."So if a variant comes along for which there is clinical evidence of escape, we're ready to respond very quickly," Dormitzer added.Dormitzer, chief scientific officer of viral vaccines at Pfizer Vaccines Research and Development, said the company has already made a DNA template for a prototype vaccine and plans to manufacture a batch of that prototype.The company is proposing to do a Phase I clinical trial of a booster shot of that prototype vaccine that it would test against a booster for the current vaccine."This will be a immunogenicity study where you look at the immune response. And those studies are much, much smaller than the giant efficacy studies," Dormitzer said."In immunogenicity studies you can look at the immune response of every person in the study. So that enables you to have much smaller, easier studies to run. It's not as definitive as efficacy data, for sure. But it can be gathered much more quickly," he explained.The US Food and Drug Administration has not yet released a roadmap for how companies should design trials of booster shots.A laboratory study released on Wednesday suggested that the South African variant of the coronavirus may reduce protective antibodies elicited by the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine by two-thirds, but it is not clear how much that reduces the shot's effectiveness against the variant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pfizer-plans-to-test-covid-19-vaccine-booster-made-for-south-african-variant-101613667822798.html
18-02-2021||World||Quad meet stresses on rules-based world order, respect for territorial integrity||Against the backdrop of continuing concerns over China’s actions across the region, the first ministerial meeting of the Quad since the Biden administration assumed office reiterated the group’s commitment to a rules-based world order underpinned by respect for territorial integrity and sovereignty.At the virtual meeting on Thursday, external affairs minister S Jaishankar, Australian foreign minister Marise Payne, Japan’s foreign minister Toshimitsu Motegi and US secretary of state Antony Blinken agreed that changes underway around the world made a “strong case for their countries working closely together”, the external affairs ministry said in a statement.The ministers also discussed countering disinformation, counter-terrorism, maritime security, and the “priority of strengthening democratic resilience in the broader region”, according to a readout from the US state department.This was the third such meeting since the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue or Quad was upgraded to the ministerial level in September 2019. It was held less than five months after the last meeting in Tokyo in October, signalling the new US administration’s commitment to the Quad as a key formation in the Indo-Pacific.There was speculation in some quarters on whether India would continue to work closely with the Quad following progress in its efforts to end the standoff with China in Ladakh sector of the Line of Actual Control (LAC). India and China recently agreed on disengagement on the northern and southern banks of Pangong Lake, one of the friction points on the LAC.While the former Trump administration had talked about formalising and expanding the Quad, questions had been raised on whether the Biden administration would adopt a more cautious approach to the group as a counter-balance to China.The external affairs ministry’s statement said: “The ministers emphasised their commitment to upholding a rules-based international order, underpinned by respect for territorial integrity and sovereignty, rule of law, transparency, freedom of navigation in the international seas and peaceful resolution of disputes.”The four countries highlighted their “shared attributes as political democracies, market economies and pluralistic societies” and said it is important for the world community to ensure that the “direction of changes remains positive and beneficial to all”, the statement added.The Quad members reiterated their “common vision for a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific region, with clear support for Asean cohesion and centrality” and noted that the Indo-Pacific concept had “gathered growing international support, including in Europe”, the statement said.The Indian statement and the US readout reflected the difference in the approach of the two sides to the February 1 military coup in Myanmar against the elected government of Aung San Suu Kyi.The US readout said the ministers discussed the “urgent need to restore the democratically elected government” in Myanmar. The Indian statement adopted a more cautious approach, saying the Indian side had reiterated the “upholding of rule of law and the democratic transition”.The ministers discussed efforts to combat the Covid-19 pandemic, including vaccination programmes, and agreed to cooperate on enhancing access to affordable vaccines, medicines and medical equipment. “India’s efforts at providing vaccines to 74 countries was recognised and appreciated,” the external affairs ministry said.The meeting also discussed climate change and cooperation in humanitarian assistance and disaster relief and supply chain resilience.The four countries agreed on holding ministerial meetings of the Quad at least once a year and meetings at senior and working levels on a regular basis to bolster cooperation on advancing a free and open Indo-Pacific.Chinese officials have likened the Quad to a “mini NATO” and said its activities are aimed at targeting third parties, a charge rejected by the four members of the group.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/quad-meet-stresses-on-rules-based-world-order-respect-for-territorial-integrity-101613666990384.html
18-02-2021||World||Bomb hits Pakistani paramilitary vehicle, killing soldier||A roadside bomb went off near a vehicle carrying Pakistani paramilitary troops in southwestern Baluchistan province on Thursday, killing a soldier and wounding another, police and a provincial minister said.The attack took place on the outskirts of Quetta, the provincial capital of Baluchistan, said Home Minister Ziaullah Langove. He condemned the attack and promised all efforts will be made to arrest those behind the bombing.No one immediately claimed responsibility for the attack but previous such roadside bombings and gun attacks on police and troops in the area have been claimed by separatist groups in Baluchistan. Islamic militants also have a presence in the province and often stage attacks there.Baluchistan has been battling an insurgency for more than a decade by separatists demanding complete autonomy or a larger share of the province’s gas and mineral resources.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/bomb-hits-pakistani-paramilitary-vehicle-killing-soldier-101613667578859.html
18-02-2021||World||US House committee to 'probe' events in Texas after winter storm, outages, says Nancy Pelosi||US House of Representatives Speaker Nancy Pelosi said on Thursday that the House Energy and Commerce Committee will be probing the events in Texas, where a winter storm paralysed the state's energy grid, leaving many without power amid freezing temperatures.Pelosi told reporters the committee would be examining "how things could've turned out better and will turn out better in the future."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-house-committee-to-probe-events-in-texas-after-winter-storm-outages-says-nancy-pelosi-101613667322605.html
18-02-2021||World||Defence minister tells Nigerians not to 'be cowards' when facing armed bandits||Nigeria's defence minister prompted criticism on Thursday for urging Nigerians not to "be cowards" and to stand up to armed bandits, while security forces embarked on a mission to rescue 42 people kidnapped from a boarding school this week.The comments by Bashir Salihi Magashi, a retired army major, came on Wednesday, hours after gunmen abducted dozens of people, including 27 students, from the Government Science secondary school in the Kagara district of north-central Niger state.The Nigeria Police Force, in a statement on Thursday, said a massive search and rescue mission was being carried out alongside the military in which helicopters, counter-intelligence unit forces and intelligence agents had been deployed.Niger state government officials have said they believe the attack was carried out by "bandits" - the term used in Nigeria to describe armed gangs who attack communities and kidnap for ransom. A spate of attacks have been carried out by such groups in the last year.On Wednesday, speaking about such gangs in the wake of Wednesday's attack, the defence minister told reporters: "We shouldn't be cowards.""I don't know why people are running away from minor, minor, minor things like that," he said. "They should stand. Let these people know that even the villagers have the competence and capability to defend themselves."The comments attracted widespread criticism."People cannot defend themselves with bare hands while confronted with bandits are who are increasingly acquiring more sophisticated weapons," said Isa Sanusi, a spokesman for rights group Amnesty International.He said Nigerian authorities had a duty to protect lives and property and should not resort to "blaming the people".Many expressed frustration on social media.Kayode Ogundamisi, a commentator on Nigerian affairs with nearly 600,000 Twitter followers, tweeted: "Simply put, he's saying YOU ARE ON YOUR OWN!"A spokesman for Magashi did not immediately respond to a request for comment.In Kagara, where the school building stood empty on Thursday following the early hours attack a day earlier, businessman Ahmed Yakubu said gunmen were attacking communities that lack protection from security forces."The security situation is so bad," he said."I see no reason why people will come on motorcycles... and they will enter a village, carry out an operation successfully and leave without any challenge."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/defence-minister-tells-nigerians-not-to-be-cowards-when-facing-armed-bandits-101613665551734.html
18-02-2021||World||India, US, Australia, Japan call for return of democracy in Myanmar||Japanese Foreign Minister Toshimitsu Motegi said on Thursday he had agreed with his US, Indian and Australian counterparts that democracy must be restored quickly in Myanmar.Myanmar's military has arrested civilian leaders, including Nobel laureate Aung San Suu Kyi, and announced a year-long state of emergency, alleging that November's election was beset by fraud. The electoral commission dismissed the army's complaints.Motegi made his comment after a phone conversation with US Secretary of State Antony Blinken, Indian Foreign Minister Subrahmanyam Jaishankar and Australian Foreign Minister Marise Payne -- countries in the so-called "Quad" framework.In October, Japan hosted an in-person meeting of foreign ministers in the Quad grouping, seen as part of efforts to balance China's growing military and economic might.The virtual meeting on Thursday was the first one since the start of the new US administration of President Joe Biden."I stressed (in the meeting) that, with challenges to existing international order continuing in various fields, the role we, the countries that share basic values and are deeply committed to fortifying free and open international order based on the rule of law, play is only getting bigger," Motegi said."And the other ministers agreed."The four ministers also agreed to strongly oppose unilateral attempts to change the status quo with force, Motegi said.China claims almost all the energy-rich waters of the South China Sea, and has established military outposts on artificial islands. Brunei, Malaysia, the Philippines, Taiwan and Vietnam also have claims to parts of the sea.In the East China Sea, China claims a group of uninhabited islets that are administered by Japan, called the Senkaku in Japan and Diaoyu in China. That dispute has plagued bilateral relations for years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/india-us-australia-japan-call-for-return-of-democracy-in-myanmar-101613662385015.html
18-02-2021||World||Britain sanctions Myanmar generals for post-coup rights violations||Britain on Thursday announced it was imposing sanctions on three generals in Myanmar for serious human rights violations following the military coup in the southeast Asian country.The UK's foreign ministry said in a statement that it was imposing sanctions on the senior generals, two of whom head the ministries of defence and home affairs, and had begun work to stop UK businesses working with the Myanmar junta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/britain-sanctions-myanmar-generals-for-post-coup-rights-violations-101613662523188.html
18-02-2021||World||Uber, Lyft rerouted for post-pandemic profitability||Uber and Lyft are taking different routes around the roadblock the virus pandemic dropped on their paths to profitability.The companies have racked up tens of billions of dollars in losses since starting up, and the slump in passenger activity has pushed profitability ever further off into the future. A mix of cost-cutting and shifting the focus from moving people to delivering food has helped them weather the downturn, while raising investors' confidence that each could finally make a profit before 2021 ends.Uber has been the most proactive of the two passenger-focused businesses. Its food delivery business has either approached or surpassed the rides business in terms of sales for each of the last three quarters. The company expanded Uber Eats with the acquisition of food delivery service Postmates last year, and recently made a deal to buy alcohol delivery service Drizly. Although it lost nearly $1 billion last quarter, that was Uber's smallest loss since going public in May of 2019.Meanwhile, rival app Lyft posted a loss of $458.2 million during the same period. That was typical for the ride-sharing company in 2020. The company has been dipping into the food delivery business with partnerships, but has mainly focused on cutting costs to hold the line until the pandemic ends and ridership returns to normal.Both companies say they'll reach profitability in 2021, and analysts have been mostly positive about their prospects.“We see continued strength in food delivery as the pandemic has created a permanent shift to on-demand delivery,” said KeyBanc Capital Markets analyst Edward Yruma in a note to investors.While food delivery will likely be a winner for Uber, both companies are likely to also benefit later in the year as the world hopefully returns to normal with a pandemic tamed by vaccines.“There is pent-up demand to start moving again, and we expect an inflection in mobility in the back half” of the year, Yruma said.Uber and Lyft must start making profits to justify their values. Uber’s stock hit a record high on Feb. 10 and is hovering around that mark for a roughly 17% gain on the year. Lyft shares may not be near their all-time highs but are up about 15% for the year.Both companies have outpaced the 4.4% gains made by the broad S&P 500 index this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uber-lyft-rerouted-for-post-pandemic-profitability-101613662068733.html
18-02-2021||World||Hong Kong activist publisher Jimmy Lai denied bail again||Prominent Hong Kong democracy advocate and newspaper publisher Jimmy Lai was again denied bail on Thursday ahead of his April trial on charges of colluding with foreign forces.Lai is one of several activists facing charges and possibly lengthy prison terms under the sweeping National Security Law that Beijing imposed on the semi-autonomous southern Chinese city last year following massive anti-government protests in 2019.Critics at home and abroad say the legislation amounts to a crackdown on political dissent and free speech that is eroding the rights and freedoms promised to Hong Kong under the “one country, two systems" framework following the handover from British colonial rule in 1997.Arrested and charged in early December, Lai was at first denied bail then granted it on appeal under strict conditions amounting for a form of house arrest. That prompted a withering attack on the Hong Kong judiciary by the ruling Communist Party newspaper People's Daily.Lai was then returned to prison under a provision of the law that allows a judge to deny bail in cases where the person may again commit the crime for which they are already facing charges.Lai's latest appeal Thursday to Hong Kong's High Court was based on separate legal grounds. He also faces fraud charges related to the use of office space by his Apple Daily newspaper and other media holdings, which reported he was also arrested Wednesday on suspicion of aiding dissidents to flee Hong Kong.Along with Martin Lee, an 82-year-old veteran of Hong Kong's democracy movement, Lai is one of the most senior critics of the current Beijing-backed government and has long faced legal and commercial retaliation for his statements and activism.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hong-kong-activist-publisher-jimmy-lai-denied-bail-again-101613661806977.html
18-02-2021||World||Covid-19 an excuse to strip tropical forests: Indigenous groups||Governments worldwide are using the Covid-19 pandemic to push through destructive development projects and roll back protections of indigenous groups, according to a global report on deforestation and rule of law released Thursday.An assessment by the Forest People's Programme of post-pandemic stimulus plans in Brazil, Colombia, the Democratic Republic of Congo, Indonesia and Peru found that projects such as mines, industrial agriculture plantations and dams were fuelling a rise in rights abuses.Those five countries contain the majority of the world's tropical forests."During the pandemic, governments have not only failed to stop land grabs and human rights violations by corporate actors, but have rewritten and reversed hard-won policies that are vital at protecting human rights," said Myrna Cunningham, president of the FILAC indigenous rights group.Numerous studies have shown the vital role indigenous groups play in averting climate change and biodiversity loss.They are crucial guardians of some of the most carbon-rich and biodiverse lands on Earth, yet the report outlined how they have come under increasing threat as governments seek to power their economic recovery.In Brazil, where deforestation of the Amazon last year reached the highest level in over a decade, the government had instigated a "campaign to roll back protections of indigenous people's rights," according to Sofea Dil, a researcher at Yale Law School who worked on the report.In Colombia, deforestation of the Amazon has accelerated by 80 percent during Covid lockdown, as the government pushed through measures to weaken protections for people living in the forest.In DRC, the authors said the government had used the pandemic as a pretext for new policies that "circumvent longstanding moratoriums on resource extraction" on indigenous lands.'Impunity'In Indonesia, a new law ostensibly aimed at job creation "weakens environmental protection laws" and protections for indigenous peoples' rights, according to the report.And in Peru, the government has declared that the economy would reopen starting with the forestry, mining and oil sectors.It is deferring environmental fines and suspending environmental and social monitoring reports to kick-start its recovery."The government presents Covid-19 rules as an exception, but these exceptions merely roll things back to business as usual," said Anna Wherry, a co-author of the assessment."All five countries in this study use this approach; the Covid-19 pandemic has enabled these governments to look past indigenous rights with impunity."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-an-excuse-to-strip-tropical-forests-indigenous-groups-101613661244873.html
18-02-2021||World||US jobless claims jump to 861,000 as layoffs stay high||The number of Americans applying for unemployment aid rose last week to 861,000, evidence that layoffs remain painfully high despite a steady drop in the number of confirmed viral infections.Applications from laid-off workers rose 13,000 from the previous week, which was revised sharply higher, the Labor Department said Thursday. Before the virus erupted in the United States last March, weekly applications for unemployment benefits had never topped 700,000, even during the Great Recession of 2008-2009.The job market has stalled, with employers having added a mere 49,000 jobs in January after cutting workers in December. Nearly 10 million jobs remain lost to the pandemic. Though the unemployment rate fell last month from 6.7%, to 6.3%, it did so in part because some people stopped looking for jobs. People who aren't actively seeking work aren't counted as unemployed.Fraudulent claims may be pushing up the totals. Last week, Ohio reported a huge increase in applications, and said it had set aside about half the increase for additional review out of concern over fraud.Two federal unemployment aid programs — one that provides up to an extra 24 weeks of support and another that covers self-employed and gig workers — were extended until March 14 by a $900 billion rescue package that was enacted late last year.President Joe Biden is proposing to extend both programs through August as part of his $1.9 trillion package now before Congress. The legislation would also provide an additional $400 a week in federal jobless aid, on top of state benefits. That money would replace a $300-a-week benefit that was included in the relief package approved last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-jobless-claims-jump-to-861-000-as-layoffs-stay-high-101613655930077.html
18-02-2021||World||China says disengagement in Ladakh progressing smoothly||China on Thursday said the disengagement of border troops in eastern Ladakh was progressing smoothly and expressed hope that both countries will make efforts together to achieve the goal.Last week, the Chinese defence ministry, followed by the foreign ministry, had announced that the Chinese and Indian frontline troops at the south and north banks of the Pangong lake in eastern Ladakh had started “synchronised and organised disengagement”.Since the two statements issued on February 10, Beijing hasn’t released any details of the disengagement.On Thursday, asked to comment on the disengagement process, Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson, Hua Chunying said it was progressing in an organised way.“According to consensus of our multi-round negotiations, the frontline troops have started disengagement in a synchronised and organised way on both sides,” Hua said.“We hope the two sides will continue to observe our consensus as well as our agreements to ensure the smooth completing of the whole disengagement process,” she added.Hua, however, did not share details of the process or the likely timeline.“The relevant process is smooth on the whole. We hope that the two side will work in concerted efforts to achieve the goal,” she added.About the timeline of the disengagement of the troops, she said: “I’m not aware of the specifics. You may ask the military”.The Indian Army on Tuesday released short videos and photographs showing thinning down of troops and dismantling of bunkers, camps and other facilities by the Chinese military in the areas around the Pangong lake in eastern Ladakh in line with the agreed disengagement process between the two sides, a PTI report said.The visuals also showed China’s People’s Liberation Army (PLA) using a bulldozer to flatten structures and vehicles with troops and equipment preparing to retreat to rear bases as part of the infantry disengagement.Neither the Chinese defence nor the foreign ministries have commented on the photos or information released by India.The ongoing disengagement of troops is the first sign of a cautious resolution of the nine-month military standoff between the Indian and Chinese armies near the Line of Actual Control (LAC).The 9th round of China-India Corps Commander Level meeting was held on the Chinese side of the Moldo-Chushul border meeting point on January 24.At the meeting, the two sides had “…agreed to push for an early disengagement of the frontline troops. They also agreed to follow the important consensus of their state leaders, maintain the good momentum of dialogue and negotiation, and hold the 10th round of the Corps Commander Level Meeting at an early date to jointly advance de-escalation.”The two sides agreed to continue their effective efforts in ensuring the restraint of the frontline troops, stabilise and control the situation along the LAC in the western Sector of the China-India border, and jointly maintain peace and tranquility,” a statement from the Chinese defence ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-says-disengagement-in-ladakh-progressing-smoothly-101613655162539.html
18-02-2021||World||Prince Charles appeals to ethnic minorities to overcome vaccine reluctance||Britain's Prince Charles, who recently got his vaccine dose to protect against Covid-19, on Thursday issued an appeal to the country’s ethnic minority communities to follow his lead when called by the National Health Service (NHS) to get vaccinated.The 72-year-old royal was addressing a special virtual event organised by the British Asian Trust, his South Asian diaspora led charity which had launched an emergency Covid-19 appeal last year.The intervention follows data indicating a lower uptake of vaccines among certain communities in the UK, including South Asians, due to a mix of mistrust and doubts over the safety of the jabs.“It is clear that the virus has affected all parts of the country and all sections of society but it is also clear that there are particular challenges faced in particular sections of our society, especially in some ethnic minority communities,” said the Prince of Wales.“What saddens me even further is to hear that those challenges are being made even worse by the variable uptake of the vaccines, which finally offers a way out of the suffering of the past year… vaccination will save lives, will prevent serious illness, will protect our health service and will allow us to start to hope that things might return in some sense to normal for every member of our society,” he said.UK Vaccine Deployment minister Nadhim Zahawi’s message that no “corners were cut” in the rapid deployment of the vaccines was reiterated by Adar Poonawalla, CEO of the Serum Institute of India, who joined the virtual event from India to talk through his company’s collaboration with Oxford University to manufacture vaccines that are soon likely to be exported to the UK as well.“The important silver lining to focus on is that these vaccines protect against severe disease against all variants of coronavirus,” he said.Dr Nikki Kanani, a general practitioner (GP) and NHS medical director for primary care, addressed doubts around the ingredients within the vaccines.“There are no animal products within these vaccines and it is absolutely safe to take them. It does not impact fertility and offers strong protection," she said.Data made available this week by OpenSafely, a study run by the University of Oxford and the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, highlighted the ethnic variations in the take up of Covid vaccines.Within the South Asian cohort, Indians and British Indians were found to be in a slightly higher uptake range of 83.4% of those eligible having received their jabs as of February 11. This compares favourably to 93% among the British or Mixed British category.The lowest uptake was noted within the black communities at 51.2%, followed by Pakistanis at 62.9% and Bangladeshis at 63.7%.“Targeted activity may be needed to address lower vaccination rates observed among certain key groups: ethnic minorities, people living in areas of higher deprivation, and those with severe mental illness or learning disabilities,” notes the study, based on anonymised medical records covering 40% of GP practices in England.Several community-led drives have been underway across the UK to counter misinformation around the safety and efficacy of the vaccines currently being administered by the National Health Service (NHS) – the Pfizer/BioNTech and Oxford/AstraZeneca jabs. Temples, mosques, gurdwaras and churches have been mobilised as vaccination centres as part of efforts to create greater trust within the communities.UK Home Secretary Priti Patel is among the frontline Cabinet ministers regularly making visits to these religious hubs to reiterate the importance of people to get vaccinated when invited by the NHS.“When you get that call from your GP, when you get your text message, come to your local vaccine site and take the jab and get vaccinated. It’s safe, it’ll protect you, it’ll protect your family and save lives,” said Patel, during a recent visit to a vaccination centre in Harrow, north-west London, with a large ethnic minority population.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/prince-charles-appeals-to-ethnic-minorities-to-overcome-vaccine-reluctance-101613654306897.html
18-02-2021||World||Russia's arms manufacturer Kalashnikov eyes production in India, woos gadget lovers with hi-tech shotgun||Russian arms manufacturer Kalashnikov plans to start making its AK-203 assault rifle in India this year and wants to attract a wider audience with a hi-tech shotgun, chief executive Dmitry Tarasov said.Named after the designer of the AK-47 assault rifle that has been used for decades in wars around the world, Kalashnikov has been seeking new business and markets after being hit by US and EU sanctions over Russia's annexation of Crimea in 2014.It is targeting a 60% increase in annual revenues to more than 50 billion roubles ($675.33 million) by 2025, Tarasov told Reuters in an interview.Featuring a built-in computer, the Ultima shotgun envisages WiFi and Bluetooth connectivity and can synchronize with smartphones. It is intended to woo younger clients such as gadget enthusiasts.Also central to Kalashnikov's growth plans is India, where it aims to produce 670,000 AK-203 rifles in the next decade together with the Indian defence ministry."We are hoping to launch production of AK-203 rifles at our joint venture in India this year. I feel it is a long-term trend so other examples will follow soon," he said.Kalashnikov launched licenced production of the AK-130 assault rifle in Armenia last year and Tarasov, 37, said it wants to deepen cooperation with Latin America, where it has a well-established relationship with Venezuela."We know that there is an active demand in that market," he said, but declined to provide further details.Hi-tech shotgunKalashnikov sells weapons to 27 countries and produces 95% of Russia's small arms, but the US sanctions imposed in 2014 banned US entities from doing business with Kalashnikov.The AK-203 is an advanced version of the AK-47 invented by Soviet soldier Mikhail Kalashnikov after he was wounded during World War Two.The Ultima is an entirely new venture for the company in which state conglomerate Rostec has a 25% stake plus one share. Alan Lushnikov, a former deputy transport minister, owns a 75% stake minus one share via a firm called TKH-Invest."With Ultima we want to attract new customers who are not typically our target audience," said Tarasov. "We are targeting customers who want to get some drive or adrenaline. Entering a semi-game niche could be an option."Unmanned aerial vehicles, some of which take off like a helicopter and fly like a glider carrying video cameras, are also "a very important business," he said.Kalashnikov also sees the market in torches, knives and other branded products as promising.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/russias-arms-manufacturer-kalashnikov-eyes-production-in-india-101613653836025.html
18-02-2021||World||US reporter held by al-Qaida-linked group in Syria released||An American journalist, living in northwestern Syria for nearly a decade, has been released, six months after he was captured by an al-Qaida-linked militant group, Syrian opposition media reported.Bilal Abdul Kareem, a native of Mount Vernon, NY, has been living in the rebel-held Syrian northwest since 2012, reporting on the Syrian government military campaigns against areas in opposition hands.He had been detained last August, following a report he did about torture in the prisons of Hayat Tahrir al-Sham, the al-Qaida-linked group that dominates the area. Local prominent figures had appealed to the militants to release him.Abdul Kareem had reported and collaborated with Western news outlets, which had largely stayed out of the war-torn country after a spat of kidnapping. He later set up his own news network, On The Ground News.The US State Department designated Hayat Tahrir al-Sham a terrorist groups in 2018 despite its move to publicly disassociate itself from al-Qaida the previous year. Rights groups and the UN-backed Commission of Inquiry have accused the group of detaining and torturing civilians and those who documented the group’s abuse of Syrian protesters, journalists and women.Syrian opposition news outlets and the Britain-based Syrian Observatory for Human Rights reported Abdul Kareem's release on Wednesday. The Observatory said local mediation secured his release after a tribunal set up and run by the al-Qaida-linked group had sentenced him.Abdul Kareem could not immediately be reached for comment. A statement by Hayat Tahrir al-Sham confirmed he was released because of mediation and said Abdul Kareem had been detained because of spreading false news, working with groups that undermine security and incite against authorities in the opposition-controlled areas.Photographs of Abdul Kareem were shared online after his release, in which he appeared to have lost some weight. His wife gave birth to a daughter in January while he was held by the militant group. He was allowed to see his family twice during his six months in captivity.Abdul Kareem has spent years covering the Middle East. Born Darrell Lamont Phelps, he converted to Islam, studied Arabic in Egypt and traveled to Libya to cover the conflict there. He arrived in Syria in 2012. He had interviewed Syrian rebels and jihadi groups, developing a reputation as a sympathizer.He survived a number of airstrikes in Syria, prompting him to file a lawsuit against the US government, demanding to know whether he was on a “kill list.” In January, a federal court dismissed his case on the grounds that he did not have standing to bring the claim.Reprieve, the UK-based legal rights group that represented him in the US case, also reported his release.“Bilal’s release is welcome news, and his quest for justice in the US courts continues,” said Jennifer Gibson, who leads Reprieve’s work on the case.In 2019, he was wounded by shrapnel when he and a Sky News crew came under fire from a Syrian government tank shell, an incident that was caught on camera.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-reporter-held-by-al-qaida-linked-group-in-syria-released-101613653768571.html
18-02-2021||World||EU to push for greener trade policy, reform at WTO||The European Union will make fighting the climate emergency central to its trade policy and push for major reform at the WTO, according to a new strategy revealed on Thursday.The new thinking on EU trade policy came with hopes in Brussels for deeper cooperation with the Biden Administration in the US after four years of fractious ties with the protectionist Donald Trump.The EU, a massive market of 450 million people, has struggled to meet its trade policy objectives in the face of US protectionism and other obstacles.A top official of the European Commission, which handles trade policy for the EU's 27 member states, announced the new strategy, which is intended to help set goals over the next 10 years."The challenges we face require a new strategy for EU trade policy," EU Executive Vice President Valdis Dombrovskis, who leads the bloc's trade policy, said in a statement."Trade policy must fully support the green and digital transformations of our economy and lead global efforts to reform the WTO," he said.In its new vision, the Commission proposed that future trade deals embrace the 2015 Paris climate change agreement, whose absence from previous accords has been seen as a major shortcoming.One example is the EU's long-negotiated trade deal with the South American Mercosur countries, which is in jeopardy because of concerns over mass deforestation in Brazil.Brussels will also seek to become more assertive in projecting its independence from the US and Chinese economic behemoths, with an embrace of multilateralism to include India and African nations.This would require a major overhaul of the 164-member World Trade Organization that has been crippled by a deep rift with the US, which believes its rules are inadequate on reining in China."The global rulebook is outdated. It no longer guarantees a level playing field," Dombrovskis said.The new appointment of Nigerian-American Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala as the WTO's new head presents "an opportunity for a fresh start," the commission said.She will take over leadership on March 1 of an institution that has become weighed down and increasingly defanged, notably by Washington's refusal to replace key posts.The EU also said it would set up mechanisms to ensure that companies do not use forced labour, an especially sensitive topic after Europe signed a controversial investment deal with China in December.That deal faces a tough ratification process, with the European Parliament keen for Beijing to sign on to the International Labour Organization's ban on the use of forced labour.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/eu-to-push-for-greener-trade-policy-reform-at-wto-101613653214695.html
18-02-2021||World||Oxford University's major Covid-19 therapeutics trial goes global||A UK trial of potential Covid-19 treatments has started to enroll patients in other countries in the hope of speeding up results, Oxford University said on Thursday.CNN reported that The RECOVERY trial looks at whether existing drugs can be used to treat the virus. The trial has enrolled more than 36,000 hospital patients in the UK since March 2020 and is now expanding to countries including Indonesia and Nepal."The Randomised Evaluation of Covid-19 Therapy (RECOVERY) Trial, the world's largest clinical trial for Covid-19 treatments, has now expanded internationally with Indonesia and Nepal among the first countries to join. The first patients have been recruited to RECOVERY International," the trial said in a news release.Peter Horby, professor of Emerging Infectious Diseases and Global Health at Oxford, said he hoped that expanding the trial internationally would enable researchers to assess potential treatments more quickly.Calling the trial an "enormous success" he said that the trial has enrolled "over 36,000 patients and (is) delivering clear results on six treatments already.""By building on this success through international partnership we can speed up the assessment of novel treatments, increase the global relevance of the trial results, build capacity, and reduce wasted efforts on small uninformative studies," he said."It is particularly important to find readily and affordable treatments for Covid-19 that can be used worldwide... RECOVERY International will help us to identify effective treatments that can be used in less well-resourced settings," he added.CNN further reported that the trial has tested a number of drugs to determine which work against Covid-19 and which don't. Last year, the trial's researchers found that the "cheap" steroid dexamethasone reduced the risk of death for the sickest Covid-19 patients - but that the anti-malarial drug hydroxychloroquine was of no benefit.The trial, last week, released preliminary results showing that the rheumatoid arthritis drug tocilizumab could also save the lives of patients hospitalised with severe Covid-19."The Randomised Evaluation of Covid-19 Therapy (RECOVERY) trial has demonstrated that an anti-inflammatory treatment, tocilizumab, reduces the risk of death when given to hospitalised patients with severe Covid-19. The study also showed that tocilizumab shortens the time until patients are successfully discharged from hospital and reduces the need for a mechanical ventilator," according to RECOVERY's website.In Indonesia and Nepal, the trial will initially focus on aspirin and colchicine, a drug for gout, the trial's website stated further "since these are readily available and affordable but, like RECOVERY in the UK, the trial is adaptive and new drugs will be added over time."As per the latest updates by Johns Hopkins University, the global coronavirus cases currently stand at 109,987,995 while the fatalities due to the deadly pathogen are at 2,432,430.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/oxford-university-s-major-covid-19-therapeutics-trial-goes-global-101613651652861.html
18-02-2021||World||US life expectancy plunged in 2020 by most since World War II||US life expectancy plunged by a full year in the first half of 2020, the biggest drop since World War II, as the Covid-19 pandemic ravaged the country. Life expectancy at birth dropped to 77.8 years from 78.8 in 2019, according to provisional data from the National Center for Health Statistics. The report also showed widening disparities along racial and gender lines. Black men saw a three-year decline in life expectancy, while the gap between the sexes rose to 5.4 years, the most in more than two decades.The figures capture the impact of a pandemic that’s been directly responsible for almost half a million American deaths. A recent research paper found that the overall toll may be even higher once indirect effects are taken into account, including people who died because they delayed seeking treatment for other conditions. Life expectancy in America had already shown signs of stalling out in the years before the coronavirus, after rising steadily for most of the period since World War II. Possible explanations include higher suicide rates and a surge in drug-related deaths as opioid abuse spread -- and there are signs that the pandemic could be making both those problems worse.In 2020, some long-term trends in mortality went into reverse. Racial differences had been steadily narrowing since the early 1990s. But last year life expectancy for Black Americans fell to 72 years, and the gap with their White counterparts rose to 6 years -- the most since 1998.The study also found a growing gap between men -- whose life expectancy fell to 75.1 years from 76.3 -- and women, who experienced a slightly smaller drop to 80.5 years from 81.4. By the age of 85, the gender gap in life expectancy shrinks to about six months.The NCHS cautions that its figures are based on provisional death counts in the first half of the year, so they won’t capture the full effects of the pandemic and aren’t adjusted for seasonal patterns that typically see more deaths in winter months than summer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-life-expectancy-plunged-in-2020-by-most-since-world-war-ii-101613651499095.html
18-02-2021||World||Pfizer begins vaccine trial in pregnant women in a bid to fill global data void||Covid vaccine developers are set to begin trials in pregnant women, looking to provide reassurance the shots are safe for expectant mothers.Pfizer Inc. and German partner BioNTech SE are starting trials for their messenger RNA vaccine in 4,000 women in the latter stages of pregnancy, according to the US online clinical trial registry. The companies will run a mid-stage study for 350 volunteers between 27 and 34 weeks gestation to confirm safety before moving into advanced trials for women between 24 and 34 weeks pregnant.AstraZeneca Plc. and Johnson & Johnson are planning to run trials in the coming months. It’s good news for pregnant people, who until now have faced a difficult dilemma: excluded from vaccine studies, yet more vulnerable to severe Covid-19. Some studies have also linked the disease to premature birth.“While it’s good news that vaccine trials in pregnant women are finally beginning, the results from these trials are unlikely to be available before the autumn,” said Marian Knight, professor of maternal and child population health at the University of Oxford.Pregnant women were kept out of vaccine studies due to a lack of safety information and a potentially higher risk of adverse events, despite calls from many scientists and doctors for their inclusion. As a result, the US, UK, and World Health Organization have advised against vaccinating pregnant women unless they’re at high-risk, such as front-line health-care workers.The Pfizer-BioNTech study will be run in the US, Europe, South America, and Africa and focuses on the third trimester of pregnancy to minimise risk to unborn children, BioNTech said in an e-mailed statement. The companies aren’t planning to evaluate whether the vaccine could have a preventative effect for babies after birth.Most companies have also set up registers to monitor participants who conceived after taking part in vaccine trials. Astra and partner Oxford told a US panel in January that 21 women from the trials had become pregnant after vaccination, while 23 women from the Pfizer-BioNTech studies reported last year they were expecting.Andrew Pollard, lead investigator on the Oxford-Astra UK trials, said the university will report findings once all babies conceived in its study population have been followed up.Current UK guidance advises a second vaccine dose be delayed if a low risk woman becomes pregnant after the first shot.Vaccine trials for children also only started in recent months, with the first data expected by summer. While kids don’t generally suffer from severe Covid, they could be key to preventing transmission to vulnerable people, including pregnant women at home.“It is a gap and it’s one that we’re looking to see how we can address,” June Raine, chief executive officer of the UK Medicines & Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency, said at a board meeting Tuesday. “We do appreciate there’s a need for some more robust data.”The US National Institutes of Health said Wednesday it’s beginning a study on the effects of Covid-19 treatment Remdesivir in pregnant women. The antiviral drug from Gilead Sciences Inc. has been shown to accelerate recovery from severe disease and was approved by the US for use in Covid-19 patients last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pfizer-begins-vaccine-trial-in-pregnant-women-in-a-bid-to-fill-global-data-void-101613651121886.html
18-02-2021||World||No jab, no job: Vatican gets tough with Covid-19 anti-vaxxers||The Vatican has told employees that they may risk losing their jobs if they refuse to get a Covid-19 vaccination without legitimate health reasons.A decree by Cardinal Giuseppe Bertello, effectively the governor of Vatican City, said getting a vaccine was "the responsible choice" because of the risk of harming other people.Vatican City, at 108 acres the world's smallest state, has several thousand employees, most of whom live in Italy. Its vaccination programme began last month and Pope Francis, 84, was among the first to get the jab.The seven-page decree says that those who cannot get vaccinated for health reasons may be given another position, presumably where they would have contact with fewer people, but will receive the same pay even if the new post is a demotion.But the decree said those who refuse to get a vaccination without sufficient reason would be subject to a specific provision in a 2011 law on employee rights and duties.The article in the 2011 law says employees who refuse "preventive measures" could be subjected to "varying degrees of consequences that could lead to dismissal".The decree was signed on Feb. 8 and later posted on the website of the governor's department.Pope Francis is a big supporter of vaccines to stem the spread of the coronavirus."It is an ethical choice because you are gambling with your health, with your life, but you are also gambling with the lives of others," he said in an interview with an Italian television station last month.The Vatican has made a Covid-19 vaccination obligatory for journalists accompanying Pope Francis on his trip to Iraq next month.Bertello, who signed the decree, tested positive for coronavirus in December and went into self-isolation.There have been fewer than 30 cases of coronavirus in the Vatican City, most of them among the Swiss Guard, who live in a communal barracks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/no-jab-no-job-vatican-gets-tough-with-covid-19-antivaxxers-101613650353606.html
18-02-2021||World||Saudi Arabia approves AstraZeneca Covid-19 shot as it aims to ramp up program||Saudi Arabia approved use of the Covid-19 vaccine developed by Oxford University and AstraZeneca Plc, boosting its inoculation drive as a government minister laid out plans for a significant acceleration.The Saudi Food and Drug Authority has now approved shots developed by Pfizer Inc. and BioNTech SE, and AstraZeneca.Deputy Minister for Public Health Hani Jokhdar said in an interview Thursday that the kingdom has the capacity to give 200,000 Covid-19 vaccinations a day and aims to secure enough supply to ramp up its inoculation program.“We will be able to deliver 1.4 million doses every week,” he said. Jokhdar said the kingdom planned to roll out the AstraZeneca vaccine as soon as “this weekend.”It has administrated about 1.4 vaccine doses per 100 people -- 460,000 shots for a population of about 34 million -- a much slower rate than in the neighboring United Arab Emirates, which has approved a range of jabs, including one made in China.The kingdom has reported more than 370,000 coronavirus cases and 6,000 deaths.Jokhdar also said:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/saudi-arabia-approves-astrazeneca-covid-19-shot-as-it-aims-to-ramp-up-program-101613649098822.html
18-02-2021||World||Britain must take bigger role to support businesses, public: Labour leader||The British state must take a bigger role in supporting businesses and the public just like it did in the aftermath of World War Two, opposition Labour Party leader Keir Starmer will set out in a speech on Thursday.Starmer, who took over as leader of the main opposition to Prime Minister Boris Johnson's Conservative Party in 2020, will sketch out his alternative vision for the country's post-Brexit and post-Covid future.“I believe people are now looking for more from their government - like they were after the Second World War," Starmer will say according to advance extracts of his speech.“They’re looking for government to help them through difficult times, to provide security and to build a better future for them and their families."His speech comes amid criticism from some quarters that his leadership has failed to inspire the British public, even as Johnson's government oversee a stuttering response to a pandemic that has inflicted worse economic damage and more deaths on Britain than its European peers.Next month, Conservative finance minister Rishi Sunak will set out a budget plan expected to underline the eye-watering cost of supporting the British economy through the pandemic.Sunak is expected to defer most of the toughest decision about how to pay for that support.Starmer will argue that the crisis has paved the way for a permanently larger state, calling on Sunak to extend some of the temporary support programmes for low earners and businesses forced to close by lockdown restrictions."To invest wisely and not to spend money we can’t afford. Those are my guiding principles. But I think that Covid has shifted the axis on economic policy: both what is necessary and what is possible have changed," he will say.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/britain-must-take-bigger-role-to-support-businesses-public-labour-leader-101613647339984.html
18-02-2021||World||China defends use of Twitter, Facebook in Covid-19 'disinformation' campaign||The Chinese government defended its use of Twitter and Facebook on Thursday, following a report that it had used its growing social media presence to spread disinformation about the origins of the Covid-19 pandemic.When asked about the report, the Foreign Ministry’s top spokeswoman, Hua Chunying, didn't directly address the allegations about China's role in spreading virus disinformation. However, she called the report hype and said China should have the right to use social media too.An Associated Press investigation, conducted in collaboration with the Atlantic Council’s Digital Forensic Research Lab, found that powerful political figures and allied media in China as well as the US, Russia and Iran flooded the globe with disinformation about the virus.The report, published earlier this week, said that Chinese officials went on the offensive in reaction to a narrative — nursed by former US President Donald Trump among others — that the virus had been manufactured by China. Experts have largely ruled out that possibility.Hua, asked about the AP report at a daily Foreign Ministry briefing, said that some people in Western countries, such as the US, don't want to hear China's objective and true voice."They are afraid that more people will learn the truth, so that they can no longer spread false information unscrupulously and do whatever they want to mislead and monopolize international public opinion," she said.China's response, though, was to start spreading rumours that the virus had been created by a US military lab and released during an international competition for military athletes in Wuhan, the Chinese city where the new coronavirus was first detected in late 2019.The search for the origins of the virus has become highly politicized. Trump sought to pin the blame on China, in part to deflect criticism of his administration's response to the pandemic in the United States.China, in turn, has played up reports that the virus was circulating outside of the country before the outbreak in Wuhan, suggesting it may have been brought in from elsewhere.Determining where the virus started is likely to take years of research and may never be known. Most scientists say the most likely scenario is it was first carried by bats in southwest China or neighboring Southeast Asia, and then spread to another animal before infecting humans.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-defends-use-of-twitter-facebook-in-covid-19-disinformation-campaign-101613647139911.html
18-02-2021||World||It’s so cold on the American Plains that calves’ ears are falling off||In Arkansas, ranchers are fitting pantyhose over the heads of calves in a desperate attempt to keep them warm. In Montana, they’ve been duct-taping calves’ ears to their necks to stop them from falling off. In Oklahoma, newborns arrived onto snow-packed frozen ground and perished while ranchers were reportedly sticking the hardest-hit animals in the front seat of pickup trucks and even inside their homes.Across the American Plains, South and Southwest, the unprecedented cold of this past week has been brutal on millions of residents. For the flora and fauna -- as well as those who make their living cultivating them -- it’s been equally disastrous, a Darwinian mix of outlandish and gruesome.“It’s survival of the fittest right now,” said Tyler Beaver, a founder of brokerage Beaf Cattle Co. in Arkansas. “Lot of hay having to be put out on a daily basis just to keep the cows warm enough to not freeze to death.”Scores of broiler houses, where chickens are raised, were without power. In Mississippi, four broiler houses were destroyed from collapsed roofs overwhelmed by snow and ice.Dale Murden, who raises both citrus and cattle in Harlingen, Texas said, “The whole state from the panhandle to the tip of Texas is just a mess.”Farmers are struggling to get food and water to their herds.Cattleman Clay Burtrum lost two calves Wednesday in Stillwater, Oklahoma. He’d been making the rounds to animals, rolling out bales of hay, replenishing feed and breaking ice in watering stations. With calving season in full swing, he couldn’t keep up.“They were born on the snow, there wasn’t anything that could be done,” he said.Jake Feddes in Manhattan, Montana has been duct-taping the ears of baby calves to their necks.“Their ears will get frostbit and fall off,” Feddes said by phone, adding that they can succumb to hypothermia.Beef packers including Cargill Inc. and Tyson Foods Inc. were forced to shut down meat plants due to energy constraints. Consumers stocking up have also cleared store shelves of food while there are long lines at fuel stations.The weather woes, in addition to killing some young animals, will slow the rate of weight gains in cattle as they use energy to stay warm. Lighter animals will mean smaller supplies later this year, a time when consumers already were expected to be paying higher prices for meat due to soaring animal feed prices.Chicago cattle futures rose to a one-year high earlier this week as the industry was hit by the weather. Prices fell 1.3% on Wednesday.Meanwhile, a cow whose calf died will be a sunk cost. “I won’t reap the benefits of that cycle for two more years” when they have another calf, Burtrum said.Beaver, who helps connect farmers and ranchers with buyers for their animals and raises a small number of animals in North Arkansas, said some calves were freezing to the ground while diesel trucks unable to move in the cold prevented deliveries of hay, needed for both food and warmth.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/its-so-cold-on-the-american-plains-that-calves-ears-are-falling-off-101613646466927.html
18-02-2021||World||Anti-coup hackers target Myanmar govt sites as protesters jam Yangon roads||Hackers targeted Myanmar government websites Thursday to protest against the military coup, as the junta pressed on with its attempts to stymie nationwide opposition with internet blockades and troop deployments.The cyberattacks came a day after tens of thousands of people rallied across the country to protest against the generals toppling Aung San Suu Kyi's civilian government earlier this month.A group called Myanmar Hackers disrupted websites including the Central Bank, the Myanmar military's propaganda page, state-run broadcaster MRTV, the Port Authority, and the Food and Drug Administration."We are fighting for justice in Myanmar," the group said on its Facebook page."It is like mass protesting of people in front of government websites."State-run newspaper New Light of Myanmar also confirmed that military websites were "under attacks", with delays on Wednesday.Cybersecurity expert Matt Warren from Australia's RMIT University said it was likely the aim was to generate publicity."The sorts of attacks they would be undertaking are denial of service attacks or defacing websites which is called hacktivism," he told AFP."The impact will be potentially limited but what they are doing is raising awareness."Internet access was severely curtailed for the fourth night running at about 1:00 am on Thursday (1830 GMT Wednesday), according to NetBlocks, a Britain-based group that monitors internet outages around the world.It said connectivity had dropped to just 21 percent of ordinary levels, and was restored eight hours later ahead of the start of the working day."The practice is detrimental to public safety and incites confusion, fear and distress in difficult times," NetBlocks tweeted.Traffic blockadesFor a second day, motorists in Yangon blockaded roads with vehicles, leaving their bonnets up and pretending they were broken down to stop security forces from moving around Myanmar's biggest city.Buses and cars could be seen on live feeds parked around a bridge at North Dagon on Thursday morning, as protesters chanted: "Don't attend the office, leave it. Join the civil disobedience movement.""We need the US Army to save our situation," read a sign held by a monk in saffron robes.Dozens of police patrolled the vicinity of Myaynigone junction as motorists also blocked roads."We are doing this to cause difficulties for police. If they come and it's a little bit tense, we leave then," said a 30-year-old taxi driver.Thousands of protesters crowded key junctions, shouting slogans at the police and flashing a three-finger salute.- Tensions across country -Nationwide protests continued Thursday, despite overnight tensions in Myanmar's second biggest city Mandalay where police and soldiers broke up a protest blocking the railway, according to two sources.A member of a local emergency rescue service said security forces opened fire, though it was not clear whether rubber bullets or live rounds were used, adding one person was injured.Four train drivers participating were arrested at gunpoint, then taken to a Mandalay locomotive factory and forced to drive to the northern city of Myitkyina, the Assistance Association for Political Prisoners said.The group has reported that close to 500 people have been arrested since the coup.In the early hours of Thursday morning 11 foreign ministry officials in Myanmar's capital Naypyidaw were arrested for taking part in the anti-coup movement, a colleague told AFP.Later in the day, some protesters painted a massive white "Save Myanmar" sign on a Naypyidaw street. After they were done, police washed it off.Up in Myanmar's northern city of Myitkyina, local media showed armed soldiers in rows of military trucks looking on as thousands of protesters marched by.The massive show of force comes the same week that police in Myitkyina fired tear gas and shot into a crowd of protesters late Sunday night, briefly detaining journalists before releasing them the following day.March 1 hearing for Suu KyiThe military has justified its power grab alleging widespread voter fraud in November elections won by Suu Kyi's party in a landslide.Western powers and the United Nations have repeatedly condemned the coup.Suu Kyi has been charged with possessing unregistered walkie-talkies as well as holding an election campaign event last year which the junta claims breached coronavirus restrictions.Her lawyer Khin Maung Zaw has not been able to meet with his client and is worried about the confidentiality of discussions if he is only allowed to speak to her by phone or video call ahead of a March 1 hearing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/anticoup-hackers-target-myanmar-govt-sites-as-protesters-jam-yangon-roads-101613646356691.html
18-02-2021||World||China calls West’s criticism of Covid-19 data sharing 'political interference’||China’s foreign ministry pushed back on criticism from the US and UK over data sharing and access for World Health Organization experts, saying Beijing had cooperated with its team during a Covid-19 fact-finding trip to Wuhan.“This is yet another case in point of political interference in science,” foreign ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying told a briefing on Thursday in response to a question on the criticism.“The WHO experts have applauded the high degree of cooperation they received from the Chinese side,” Hua said. “They said they have met the people they want to meet and they share important new data. I believe this is what professionalism means.”Both the US and UK have called for China to make available raw data relating to the Covid-19 outbreak. US National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan said in a statement on Saturday that the US has “deep concerns about the way in which the early findings of the Covid-19 investigation were communicated and questions about the process used to reach them.”UK Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab also told the BBC that Beijing must cooperate with the WHO probe into the virus’s origins.“We do share concerns that they get full cooperation and they get the answers they need,” he said, according to Reuters, “and so we’ll be pushing for it to have full access, get all the data it needs to be able to answer the questions that I think most people want to hear answered around the outbreak.”White House Voices Skepticism on China’s Role in Covid-19 ProbeCovid-19 origin tracing has been contentious, with China trying to fight off criticism of any mishandling of the pandemic and stepping up efforts to recast the virus narrative amid growing scrutiny over the pathogen’s origins. Beijing has suggested the virus may have arrived in China through imported frozen seafood and urged the WHO to carry out investigations in other countries.WHO investigators who recently visited China concluded that it was extremely unlikely that the coronavirus leaked from a lab in the city of Wuhan -- a theory promoted by former US President Donald Trump.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-calls-west-s-criticism-of-covid-19-data-sharing-political-interference-101613645581655.html
18-02-2021||World||Applications for asylum in Europe drop sharply amid pandemic||Applications for asylum in the European Union dropped by more than 30% in 2020 compared to the previous year, reaching their lowest level since 2013, according the bloc's asylum agency.The European Asylum Support Office said on Thursday that a decrease of 31% in the 27 member states plus Norway and Switzerland is mainly the result of emergency travel restrictions put in place during the coronavirus pandemic.The agency noted that despite the virus crisis, national asylum authorities “showed resilience in sustaining many activities, resulting in a decrease in backlogs of pending applications."According to figures provided by the office, 461,300 applications were lodged in 2020, compared to 671,200 in 2019.The agency said that about 4% of all applications were lodged by people claiming to be unaccompanied minors.As in 2019, Syrians lodged the most applications (14%), followed by Afghans, Venezuelans, Colombians and Iraqis.“Together, the five top nationalities lodged over two fifths of all asylum applications," the European asylum office said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/applications-for-asylum-in-europe-drop-sharply-amid-pandemic-101613646064966.html
18-02-2021||World||US reaches 65,000 H-1B visa cap for fiscal year 2021||The US has received enough petitions needed to reach the Congressionally-mandated 65,000 H-1B visa cap for the fiscal year 2021 and successful candidates for the most sought-after work visa among foreign professionals, including Indians, would be decided by a computerised draw of lots.The H-1B visa is a non-immigrant visa that allows the US companies to employ foreign workers in speciality occupations that require theoretical or technical expertise. The technology companies depend on it to hire tens of thousands of employees each year from countries like India and China.US Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) has said it has received a sufficient number of petitions needed to reach the congressionally mandated 65,000 H-1B visa regular cap and the 20,000 H-1B visa US advanced degree exemption, known as the master’s cap, for fiscal year (FY) 2021.Successful applicants would be decided by a computerised draw of lots.“We have completed sending non-selection notifications to registrants’ online accounts,” a media release said.“We will continue to accept and process petitions that are otherwise exempt from the cap,” it said.Petitions filed for current H-1B workers who have been counted previously against the cap, and who still retain their cap number, are exempt from the FY 2021 H-1B cap.The USCIS will continue to accept and process petitions filed to extend the amount of time a current H-1B worker may remain in the US and change the terms of employment for current H-1B workers.The Biden administration this month announced that it was delaying the H-1B policy of the previous Trump administration on the allocation of the popular foreign work visas by continuing with the lottery system until December 31, 2021, to give the immigration agency more time to develop, test and implement the modifications to the registration system.On January 7, the US Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) announced to do away with the traditional lottery system in deciding the successful applicants for the H-1B visas.The Trump-era rule was scheduled to go into effect on March 9.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-reaches-65-000-h-1b-visa-cap-for-fiscal-year-2021-101613644285490.html
18-02-2021||World||6 children killed playing with old bomb in Uganda: Police||Six children were killed and five others injured in northwest Uganda after an old explosive they found in the bushes detonated as they played with it, police said Thursday.Three children died instantly while three others succumbed to injuries en route to hospital in Adjumani, a district of West Nile region that witnessed years of conflict and insurgencies."The children were playing in the bushes on Tuesday afternoon when they came across an object, and it exploded as they were playing with it," Josephine Angucia, a regional police spokeswoman, told AFP on Thursday."Preliminary investigations suggest the explosion was from a hand grenade abandoned during the Lord's Resistance Army (LRA) insurgency that affected West Nile region, and in particular, Adjumani which was greatly affected."Five children were seriously wounded and being treated at the district hospital, Angucia said.It was the second fatal accident in Adjumani in less than two weeks involving leftover munitions, with a separate recent explosion killing two people, the police spokeswoman said.In the 1990s, government forces battled rebels from the West Nile Bank Front and the LRA across northern Uganda, with civilians suffering a horrific toll.The West Nile Bank Front was crushed by the end of the decade but the LRA survived, continuing its bloody rebellion against President Yoweri Museveni until being forced out of Uganda in 2006.The United Nations says the LRA killed more than 100,000 people and abducted 60,000 children in a campaign of violence that spread beyond Uganda to Sudan, the Democratic Republic of Congo and the Central African Republic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/6-children-killed-playing-with-old-bomb-in-uganda-police-101613644881987.html
18-02-2021||World||Muddled promises on schools pose political problem for Biden||President Joe Biden is in a political firestorm over how and when to get more schools open during the coronavirus pandemic, with Republicans seizing on confusion surrounding Biden's goal to reopen a majority of schools within his first 100 days to paint the president as beholden to teachers’ unions at the expense of American families.Biden's administration in recent weeks has sent muddled and at times contradictory messages about his goal. On Tuesday night, the president said his 100-day goal was to have most elementary schools open five days a week, seeming to conflict with his own press secretary, who had said last week that schools would be considered “open” if they held in-person classes even one day a week.Biden’s aides dismiss the controversy as a flareup that will disappear once the coronavirus is better under control and more school districts reopen, pointing to recent polls suggesting the public so far believes Biden is doing a good job in handling the issue.But there could be lingering damage if Biden is seen to break an early promise on an issue so important to so many Americans.Teachers’ unions have said they support reopening schools once officials are able to make the buildings safer, but they need the $130 billion included in Biden's proposed American Rescue Plan to make it happen. And even if the bill passes Congress by the Democrats' mid-March deadline, it’s unclear whether districts would be able to make changes in time to hasten school openings before the end of Biden’s first 100 days.Dan Domenech, executive director of the School Superintendents Association, said teachers are willing to go back to in-person learning “only if this bill is passed, only if the dollars get to the school districts in time for them to be able to do the work that they need to do in terms of spacing, in terms of sanitizing, and only if we get the majority of our teachers vaccinated.”“It’s possible. But at this stage, at this point, it’s not probable,” he said.American Federation of Teachers President Randi Weingarten said in an interview she hopes Biden will meet his goal, and has said teachers should return to school when Covid-19 mitigation strategies are in place. But she noted that with social distancing, school still won't feel normal.“You’re not going to be able to have every single child in every single school in the normal way that we think about normal school,” she said.Until the nation reaches herd immunity with the widespread distribution of the vaccine, Weingarten said, “we’re not going to be normal.”This leaves Biden caught between teachers’ unions expressing caution towards his expanded goal on reopening, and critics who say just one day of classroom time a week for a majority of schools is far too little. Data from Burbio, a service that tracks school opening plans, recently reported that 66% of K-12 students already are learning in-person to some degree.Republicans have been using the issue to hit at Democrats for weeks, pointing to data suggesting that many schools are safe to open now and charging that the Biden administration is siding with teachers’ unions over science and the needs of American families.“In places across America where public education depends on the whims of a powerful public sector union, the best interests of children have often come dead last,” Mitch McConnell, the top Republican in the Senate, said during a floor speech earlier this month. “As the months have rolled by and the data have poured in, it’s become clear that schools can open safely.”“An administration that puts facts and science first would be conducting a full-court press to open schools,” McConnell said.Republicans see the issue as one that has an urgent and immediate impact on nearly every American family, and one that’s particularly salient for the kinds of suburban swing voters who can be decisive in tough House districts and statewide races.Republican strategist Rory Cooper said the issue is particularly relevant in "collar counties around major urban areas." He and other parents are “enraged with the state of schooling right now,” he said.Children face "mental health issues, academic issues, physical and social issues. And the priority seems to be on the adults who worked in the school system, rather than the children who are supposed to benefit from it,” Cooper said.Democrats believe they can turn the issue back on any Republicans who vote against the COVID-19 aid bill, and plan to hammer those lawmakers for blocking funding to get kids back to school.But Republicans are already using the issue against Democrats in races this year. One of California Gov. Gavin Newsom's Republican opponents, Kevin Faulconer, launched his campaign hammering Newsom on the issue after stepping off a yellow school bus, a symbol of the frustration of parents whose kids remain locked out of classrooms because of the pandemic.While teachers’ unions have embraced what they say was much-needed leadership from the president after the Trump administration left educators worried about their heath and without adequate protection, they also acknowledge that Biden’s goal has put pressure on the unions to deliver.“Has it made it harder, you know, on everyone to have an ambitious, bold goal for the American people? Of course,” Weingarten said, adding that she gives Biden "credit for wanting to help families get to a sense of hope.”Part of what's contributing to the confusion, according to National Education Association President Becky Pringle, is that there's no one-size-fits-all program that schools can implement to meet Centers for Disease Control and Prevention guidelines on how to safely reopen. She said she felt that's what was guiding the Biden administration's now-discarded one-day-a-week standard for reopening.“It was an acknowledgment that every school has different challenges in meeting those guidelines," Pringle said, noting that implementing social distancing guidelines, for example, would be a different challenge in crowded urban schools than it would be in more sparsely attended rural schools.”Another challenge for Biden in getting teachers and students fully back to in-person learning is the question of vaccinations for teachers, where the administration's message has been muddled.While Biden said Tuesday that teachers should move up in priority for getting vaccinated, White House press secretary Jen Psaki clarified his stance on Wednesday, saying that while teachers should be a priority, vaccinating teachers was just a recommendation and not required for schools to reopen. And Dr. Anthony Fauci, the administration's top infectious disease expert, said it would be “non-workable” for every teacher to get vaccinated before schools reopen.Domenech said the comments from the administration are certain to be met with frustration from teachers.“To say that vaccination should not be a prerequisite, I think that sets up an unnecessary issue," he said.And with his 100-day goal for schools, Biden is taking responsibility for something that he cannot ultimately control.Even if school districts receive the money they need to quickly implement changes, the decision on whether to reopen is left up to teachers’ unions and local officials, and is made on an individual basis across the nation’s more than 13,500 school districts.Psaki acknowledged that during a briefing Wednesday, declaring that while the federal government can help with money and guidelines on how to safely reopen, “this is going to be up to local schools and school districts.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/muddled-promises-on-schools-pose-political-problem-for-biden-101613645251709.html
18-02-2021||World||Researchers urge delay in administering Pfizer vaccine's second dose||Two Canada-based researchers on Wednesday urged governments to delay administering the second dose of Pfizer Inc's Covid-19 vaccine, which they said had an efficacy of 92.6% after the first dose, as it was not significantly beneficial in the short term.Danuta Skowronski and Gaston De Serres said their findings were derived from Pfizer's documents submitted to the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA).These findings were also similar to the first-dose efficacy of 92.1% reported for Moderna Inc's mRNA-1273 vaccine, Skowronski and De Serres said in their letter published in the New England Journal of Medicine.They cautioned that there may be uncertainty about the duration of protection with a single dose, but said that the administration of the second dose a month after the first provided "little added benefit in the short term"."Given the current vaccine shortage, postponement of the second dose is a matter of national security that, if ignored, will certainly result in thousands of Covid-19–related hospitalizations and deaths this winter in the United States," the authors warned.In its response, Pfizer said that alternative dosing regimens of its vaccine had not been evaluated yet and the decision to do that resided with the health authorities."We at Pfizer believe that it is critical for health authorities to conduct surveillance on implemented alternative dosing schedules to ensure that vaccines provide the maximum possible protection," the company added.In Britain, authorities have said that data supported its decision to move to a 12-week dosing schedule for Pfizer's Covid vaccine. Both Pfizer and its partner BioNTech have warned that they had no evidence to prove it.However, the US FDA and the European Medicines agency (EMA) have stuck by the interval tested in the trials.EMA has said there should be a maximum interval of 42 days between the first and the second shot of the vaccine, while FDA mandates a gap of 21 days between the two doses of the Pfizer vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/researchers-urge-delay-in-administering-pfizer-vaccine-s-second-dose-101613641628344.html
18-02-2021||World||Malala questions Imran Khan, Pak Army over threatening post by Taliban terrorist||A terrorist outfit, Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan's (TTP) former spokesperson Ehsanullah Ehsan, who took the responsibility for having shot Malala Yousfzai in 2012, has now threatened Nobel Laureate on Wednesday by posting on Twitter, "next time, there would be no mistake."The threat by Ehsan prompted Yousafzai to question Pakistan's military (DGISPR) and Prime Minister Imran Khan on Twitter to explain how her shooter, Ehsan, had escaped from the government's custody."This is the ex-spokesperson of Tehrik-i-Taliban Pakistan who claims responsibility for the attack on me and many innocent people. He is now threatening people on social media. How did he escape @OfficialDGISPR@ImranKhanPTI?," tweeted Yousafzai.Also Read: Taliban tweet threatens Malala Yousafzai; Twitter removes accountMeanwhile, Twitter has permanently suspended Ehsanullah's account on Wednesday.Ehsanullah Ehsan, ex-spokesperson of TTP nine years ago had shot and wounded Malala Yousafzai.The escape of Ehsan in 2020 created an uproar in Pakistan where the opposition has accused the government of "sheer incompetence".In an audio message released in Jan 2020, Ehsan could be heard saying that he has succeeded in escaping from Pakistan's jail. Ehsan had escaped on January 11 but no confirmation has been made by the Pakistan Army yet."I am Ehsanullah Ehsan. I am the former spokesman of Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan and Jamaatul Ahrar. I had surrendered to the Pakistani security authorities on February 5, 2017, under an agreement. I honored this agreement for three years, but the Pakistani authorities violated it and kept me in a prison along with my children," Ehsan said.Ehsan said that he will release a detailed statement later in which he will mention the agreement he made with the Pakistani security authorities."I will also mention on whose approval this accord was made with me. And what were the terms and conditions of the agreement and which prominent figure had assured me that the agreement will be implemented," he said, adding that he will also explain the conditions in which he and his family were held in Pakistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/malala-questions-imran-khan-pak-army-over-threatening-post-by-taliban-terrorist-101613644967527.html
18-02-2021||World||Joe Biden's immigration agenda takes shape as lawmakers unveil Bill||President Joe Biden’s proposed immigration overhaul will be introduced in Congress on Thursday, kicking off what will likely be one of his most difficult legislative challenges.The legislation, known as the U.S. Citizenship Act of 2021, hews closely to the outline that Biden sent to Congress on his first day in office. The proposal includes an eight-year path to citizenship for most of the roughly 11 million immigrants living illegally in the U.S., bolsters the nation’s refugee and asylum systems and calls for additional technology to be used to help secure the southern border, administration officials told reporters late Wednesday.Also Read: Biden faces pressure as US sets new course on immigrationThe citizenship path is not explicitly tied to the implementation of border security measures, a trade-off included in past immigration bills designed to earn Republican support.Representative Linda Sánchez, a California Democrat, will introduce the bill in the House on Thursday, according to an administration official. The bill’s lead sponsor in the Senate, New Jersey Democrat Robert Menendez, plans to introduce the legislation early next week in the upper chamber, which is now in recess.Previous attempts at reforming the nation’s immigration system have failed over the past two decades, and Biden’s bill could face an even more daunting path because GOP lawmakers’ opposition to legalizing undocumented immigrants, which they decry as amnesty, hardened during the Trump era.The White House has previously signaled it is open to breaking the package into pieces and presenting them separately in order to win over at least some Republicans. Biden said in a CNN town hall on Tuesday said smaller measures could help fix the system “in the meantime.”Yet his team plans to defer to leaders in the House and Senate on the best path forward, including whether to try to use a procedural maneuver known as budget reconciliation to pass it using only Democratic votes while it builds support for broader legislation. The Democrats are employing the reconciliation process to pass Biden’s $1.9 trillion coronavirus relief plan.The focus of the White House now, the administration official said, is to see how much support the immigration measure can garner on its own.Several bills could serve as vehicles to move parts of the Biden plan.A bipartisan group of lawmakers has reintroduced the Dream Act, which would offer deportation protections and a citizenship path to immigrants, known as Dreamers, who were brought illegally to the U.S. as children. Democrats have also supported legislation that would offer immediate relief to farmworkers.Biden’s proposal makes Dreamers, farmworkers and migrants with Temporary Protected Status eligible to apply for permanent legal residence right away, which would allow them to apply for citizenship within three years. That faster path to citizenship is meant to signal that those groups are important but it doesn’t mean the White House has decided to pursue piecemeal bills, an administration official said.Also Read: Biden to slowly allow 25,000 people seeking asylum into USRepresentative Joaquin Castro of Texas is also introducing a bill that would offer permanent legal status to about 5 million undocumented immigrants who have worked in front-line jobs during the coronavirus pandemic, as well as so-called Dreamers and those with Temporary Protected Status.The comprehensive legislation would also expand legal immigration for those seeking employment- and family-based visas by clearing backlogs of those waiting for green cards, lifting per-country visa caps, and exempting spouses and minor children from annual green card quotas.It also contains provisions designed to please labor unions, which have in the past complained that certain visa programs allow companies to employ lower-paid migrant workers instead of American citizens. The bill would tie green card levels to macroeconomic conditions and establish a commission on workplace conditions comprised of union officials, civil rights advocates and others, administration officials said.Biden has already signed a number of executive actions intended to roll back former President Donald Trump’s hard-line immigration policies, including reversing a travel ban on some predominately Muslim nations, allowing certain asylum seekers to begin entering the U.S. while their cases are being processed and beginning the process of winding down Trump’s “public charge” rule, which sought to deny green cards to immigrants who used Medicaid, food stamps, housing vouchers or other forms of government assistance.Work visa issueThe president also ordered construction halted on Trump’s wall at the Mexican border. His proclamation rescinded the national emergency that Trump declared to secure funding for the project.The administration is facing pressure from business groups to end Trump’s bans on most work visas, which the former president put in place shortly after the pandemic hit the U.S. The White House has put the visa bans under review but has yet to revoke them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-s-immigration-agenda-takes-shape-as-lawmakers-unveil-bill-101613644385114.html
18-02-2021||World||Facebook says we've been forced to block media in Australia because of the law||Facebook Inc said on Thursday that it blocked media content in Australia because the draft law did not provide clear guidance on the definition of news content and said its commitment to combat misinformation had not changed."The actions we're taking are focused on restricting publishers and people in Australia from sharing or viewing Australian and international news content," a company spokesman said."As the law does not provide clear guidance on the definition of news content, we have taken a broad definition in order to respect the law as drafted. However, we will reverse any Pages that are inadvertently impacted," the spokesman said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/facebook-says-we-ve-been-forced-to-block-media-in-australia-because-of-the-law-101613644020218.html
18-02-2021||World||US Citizenship Act of 2021 to be introduced in Congress on Thursday||Proposed by President Joe Biden, the US Citizenship Act 2021 - which among other things intends to eliminate the per-country cap for employment-based green cards would be introduced in Congress on Thursday, a move that would benefit hundreds and thousands of Indian IT professionals in America.In a major move, those waiting for a Green Card for more than 10 years, would get the legal permanent residency immediately as they would be exempted from the visa cap. Indian IT professionals, waiting for more than a decade now, and whose number runs into thousands, are likely to be the biggest beneficiary of this provision of the bill.To be introduced by Senator Bob Menendez in the Senate and Congresswoman Linda Sanchez in the House of Representatives, US Citizenship Act 2021, which creates an eight-year path to citizenship for the 11 million undocumented immigrants, needs to be passed by Congress before it can be sent to the White House for Biden to sign into law.The Biden administration now calls them non-Citizens to better reflect the president’s values on immigration, a senior administration official said.The bill, which was sent by Biden to Congress hours after he was sworn in as the president on January 20, clears employment-based visa backlogs, recapture unused visas, reduces lengthy wait times, and eliminates per-country visa caps.The bill makes it easier for graduates of US universities with advanced STEM degrees to stay in the United States; improves access to green cards for workers in lower-wage sectors; and eliminates other unnecessary hurdles for employment-based green cards.It provides dependents of H-1B visa holders work authorisation, and children are prevented from "aging out" of the system.“Spouses and permanent partners and children under the age of 21 of lawful permanent residents are now exempt from the caps. This is a change in law. It's what is in place right now for US citizens.There's an admission rate I think probably people know seven per cent per-country cap and we raise that to 20 percent,” a senior administration official said.The bill also repeals the three in the 10-year unlawful presence bar. It also increases diversity visas from the current 55,000 to 80,000.The bill, the official said, aims at reducing the backlog for employment-based Green Card, a move which would benefit hundreds and thousands of Indian IT professionals.In addition to eliminating per-country cap in this category, the bill exempts spouses and children the principal applicants from the numbers for family in employment."We also exempt from the numbers anyone who has been waiting for a visa to become available for more than 10 years,” said the senior administration official, on condition of anonymity."In addition to that we exempt those who have advanced stem degrees, so they can stay in the country and contribute to the economy and innovation,” the official said.Notably, the largest number of foreign students on STEM (Science, technology, engineering, and mathematics) degrees are from India."We create a pilot programme to stimulate regional economic development. And so it gives the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) the authority to establish a five-year pilot programme to allow any county or municipal executive to petition for additional immigrant visas to support the region's economic development strategy,” the official said.The bill also creates a pilot programme to stimulate regional economic development, gives the DHS the authority to adjust green cards based on macroeconomic conditions, and incentivises higher wages for non-immigrant, high-skilled visas to prevent unfair competition with American workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-citizenship-act-of-2021-to-be-introduced-in-congress-on-thursday-101613643215869.html
18-02-2021||World||US military's 1st India-born female Muslim chaplain graduates from Chaplain College||Saleha Jabeen, US military's first India-born female Muslim chaplain, has graduated from Air Force Basic Chaplain Course, vowing to take her duty as a spiritual mentor very seriously.The historic graduation ceremony was held on February 5, an official statement said on Wednesday.Jabeen said she was grateful for the opportunity and aware of the responsibility that she has to set an example and show that there is a place in the military for anyone who wants to serve."I did not have to compromise on any of my religious beliefs or convictions. I am surrounded with people who respect me and are willing to receive what I bring to the table as a woman, a faith leader, and an immigrant,” she said."I am provided with numerous opportunities to learn and develop skills that best equip me to be a successful officer and a chaplain in a pluralistic environment,” Jabeen said.Jabeen was commissioned in December as a Second Lieutenant at the Catholic Theological Union in Chicago, becoming the first female Muslim chaplain in the Department of Defense. She came to the United States 14 years ago as an international student."I get to provide spiritual care to all service members, guardians and families and advise the commanders on religious and moral matters regardless of my faith, ethnicity or gender. Like our boss says, it has never been a better time to serve as a chaplain in the US Air Force Chaplain Corps,” she said.Capt. John Richardson, Air Force Chaplain Corps College staff chaplain, said that his goal is to create chaplains who are ready to provide front-line ministry upon graduation."They are trained to lead the units they serve spiritually. The bottom line is to care for Airmen - every single Airman. When they care for Airmen in a professional way, every other aspect of our calling falls into place: advising leaders and providing for the religious needs of our force,” Richardson said.Capt. Mara Title, Air Force Chaplain Corps College staff chaplain, said Jabeen’s addition to the chaplain corps will be of great benefit to everyone."The Air Force Chaplain Corps endeavours to promote diversity in all respects,” Title said."Chaplain Saleha Jabeen’s presence enables an even broader scope of spiritual care for our Airmen, and for this we are very grateful. She is as determined to take on the role of chaplain as she is kind, caring and compassionate. We are thrilled to have had the opportunity for her to graduate with the class of BCC 21A,” she said.Jabeen said she was passionate about her role as a chaplain, and takes her duty as a spiritual mentor very seriously."We all have a purpose that is specifically meant for us to fulfill,” she said."We must listen to our heart and follow our conviction. It is important to have people in our lives who model that for us. Choose that kind of mentorship and choose good companionship. I just want people to remember that God, or higher power or the values that people uphold, remind us that we all are created with a plan: to become the best versions of ourselves,” she said.According to her LinkedIn profile, Jabeen completed her BA in Business and Economics at North Park University, followed by an MA in Theology–Interreligious Dialogue from Catholic Theological Union and course in counselling psychology from Trinity Christian College.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-military-s-1st-india-born-female-muslim-chaplain-graduates-from-chaplain-college-101613640010073.html
18-02-2021||World||Australian media law raises questions about 'pay for clicks'||Sir Timothy Berners-Lee, the British computer scientist known as the inventor of the World Wide Web, says Australian plans to make digital giants pay for journalism could set a precedent that renders the Internet as we know it unworkable.“Specifically, I am concerned that that code risks breaching a fundamental principle of the web by requiring payment for linking between certain content online,” Berners-Lee told a Senate committee scrutinizing a bill that would create the New Media Bargaining Code.It's a question dividing proponents and critics of the proposed Australian law: does it effectively make Google and Facebook “pay for clicks” and might it be the beginning of the end of free access?The battle is being watched closely in the European Union, where officials and lawmakers are drafting sweeping new digital regulations.Google contends the law does require it to pay for clicks. Google regional managing director Melanie Silva told the same Senate committee that read Berners-Lee's submission last month she is most concerned that the code “requires payments simply for links and snippets.”“The concept of paying a very small group of website or content creators for appearing purely in our organic search results sets a dangerous precedent for us that presents unmanageable risk from a product and business-model point of view,” Silva said.Facebook regional vice president Simon Milner agreed that the potential cost for news under the code was “entirely uncapped and unknowable.”Uniquely, Australia's code includes a negotiation safety net. An arbitration panel would prevent digital giants from abusing their dominant negotiating positions by making take-it-or-leave-it payment offers to news businesses for their journalism.In the case of a standoff, the panel would make a binding decision on whose best-offer wins.Peter Lewis, director of the Australia Institute's Center for Responsible Technology think tank, said the monetary value of public interest journalism has yet to be established.“The reason it's such as ephemeral process, if you like, is that no one's ever tried this before,” Lewis told Australian Broadcasting Corp.“How do you value fact-based news absent advertising? News has always been valued on the back of how much ads that the outlet can sell. Because Google and Facebook have dominated the advertising market and taken that out of the equation, we're now trying to work out the value of public interest journalism,” Lewis added.Google has reacted to the threat of compulsory arbitration by stepping up negotiations on licensing content agreements with Australian media companies through its own News Showcase model.Facebook responded Thursday by blocking users from accessing and sharing Australian news.Treasurer Josh Frydenberg amended draft legislation after weekend talks with Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg and Sundar Pichai, chief executive of Alphabet Inc. and its subsidiary Google, to make it clear the platforms would not be charged per news snippet or link.“We never intended that . . . if the arbitrator was overseeing a deal between a television station and one of the digital platforms, that they would make that digital platform pay 2 cents, for example, for every click over the forthcoming year,” Frydenberg said. “That was never the intention. It was always the intention was to have a lump sum payment and that's what we have made explicit in the code.”Dan Stinton is managing director of Guardian Australia and New Zealand which is negotiating a licensing deal through Google's News Showcase.Stinton said Google has benefitted from news through engagement with search users who link to journalism, the consumer data Google collects from publishers and from its revenue share from ads that are published with news articles.“Google have been prosecuting an argument that they're being asked to pay for links in Search and that is not the case,” Stinton said.“They're not stealing published content, but I do believe they are using their market power to preference their own businesses to the detriment of publishers and that's not right,” Stinton said.“It's not just paying for links and snippets within search, it's paying for the entire benefit that Google receives,” he added.Google has reached pay deals with more than 450 publications globally since it launched News Showcase in October.The EU's executive Commission has proposed new rules aimed at taming the biggest digital “gatekeepers.” Proposals working their way through negotiations among lawmakers from the 27-member bloc's parliament could be amended to include elements of Australia's model.Britain, which recently left the EU, is planning similar digital reforms that include shaking up the relationship between online platforms and news publishers.“There's definitely an influence” from Australia, said Angela Mills Wade, executive director of the European Publishers Council, a lobbying group for media companies. “It is being closely monitored by all who have a stake in the outcome.”Publishers in European countries already can request payments from tech companies for using their stories under recently revamped copyright rules. France was the first country to adopt those rules into national legislation and Google initially balked at payments. It changed its tune when a court ordered it into negotiations that resulted in a deal with a group of French publishers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/australian-media-law-raises-questions-about-pay-for-clicks-101613639629915.html
18-02-2021||World||Indonesia weighs plan to allow private Covid-19 vaccinations||Indonesia is finalizing a plan to allow private businesses to fund and distribute Covid-19 vaccines to meet a goal to inoculate more than 180 million people by the end of the year.The private campaign will use different types of vaccine and it will remain free for Indonesians, the government said in a statement Thursday. Around 5,300 companies have signed up to take part in the program, Rosan Roeslani, head of the Indonesian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, said in an interview.Private vaccinations may help the world’s fourth largest population reach herd immunity by the end of the year as infection numbers continued to climb. As of yesterday, only 1.15 million people have received their first shot of the Sinovac Biotech Ltd.’s vaccine in Indonesia. The nation added 9,687 new coronavirus cases yesterday, bringing its total to 1.24 million, the worst in Southeast Asia.Based on recommendations from institutions, including the Anti-Corruption Agency, the government will continue to hold control of the database and is sole regulator of the inoculation process. Private vaccinations will not be held at public health facilities and it will take place after the first round to vaccinate health workers and public servants is completed, according to the government statement.Roeslani said he expects the private program to start as soon as next month, or in the second quarter at the latest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indonesia-weighs-plan-to-allow-private-covid-19-vaccinations-101613639284492.html
18-02-2021||World||China steps up 'massive campaign' of online controls with new rule for bloggers||Ma Xiaolin frequently wrote about current affairs on one of China's leading microblogging sites, where he has 2 million followers. But recently, he said in a post, the Weibo site called and asked him not to post original content on topics ranging from politics to economic and military issues.“As an international affairs researcher and a columnist, it looks like I can only go the route of entertainment, food and beverage now,” the international relations professor wrote on Jan. 31.Ma, who often posted on developments in the Mideast, is one of many popular influencers working within the constraints of China's heavily censored web who is finding that their space to speak is shrinking even further with the latest policy changes and a clean-up campaign run by the country's powerful censors. He declined an interview request.Beginning next week, the Cyberspace Administration of China will require bloggers and influencers to have a government-approved credential before they can publish on a wide range of subjects. Some fear that only state media and official propaganda accounts will get permission. While permits have been needed since at least 2017 to write about topics such as political and military affairs, enforcement has not been widespread. The new rules expand that requirement to health, economics, education, and judicial matters.“The regulators want to control the entire procedure of information production,” said Titus Chen, an expert in Chinese social media policy at National Sun Yat-Sen University in Taiwan.The latest move is in line with ever more restrictive regulations under President Xi Jinping that constrict an already narrow space for discourse. The Chinese leader has made “digital sovereignty” a central concept of his rule, under which authorities have set limits and increased control of the digital realm.The new credential requirement could restrict individuals from posting original content, including people like Ma who aren’t openly challenging the line of Xi's ruling Communist Party. Weibo CEO Wang Gaofei, responding to Ma on the platform, said commentary on news released by official media was permitted but commentators could not “release news” themselves.The policy revision is meant “to standardize and steer public accounts and information service platforms to be more self aware in keeping the correct direction of public opinion,” according to a statement posted by the Cyberspace Administration.A week after unveiling the new rules in late January, the administration held a nationwide conference on the importance of “strengthening order in online publishing." The head of the agency, Zhuang Rongwen, said the agency must “let our supervision and management grow teeth.”On Feb. 4, the agency publicly announced a month-long clean-up drive targeting search engines, social media platforms and browsers. Such campaigns, in which companies take steps to meet government demands, aren’t new, but enforcement was looser in the past: In 2017, Weibo backed off after complaints it was lumping gay content in with a pornography ban.It appears to be happening in concurrence with a crackdown to enforce existing rules.“It is a big deal, it’s a massive campaign,” said Xiao Qiang, an expert on digital censorship at the University of California at Berkeley. “And these are people who didn’t write something sharp. They are intentionally not being edgy about things.”A notice on Sohu in January, which also hosts microblogs, said public accounts without credentials must not issue or republish current affairs news. Banned topics include “articles and commentary on politics, economics, military affairs, diplomatic and public affairs; Taking out of context and distorting the content of the Party and country's history; breaking news and commentary.” Internet giant Baidu, which also has a publishing platform, issued a similar notice.It is unclear to what extent bloggers will be punished if they publish commentary without the credentials.A current affairs account on Tencent's WeChat messaging app was shut down last week on “suspicion of providing an internet news information service.” Called “August Old Yu,” it was run by Yu Shenghong, a former journalist at state broadcaster CCTV, He did not respond to a request for comment.Representatives of Baidu, Sohu and Weibo did not respond to requests for comment. Tencent declined comment. The Cyberspace Administration did not respond to a faxed request.The coronavirus pandemic appears to have in part spurred the tightened regulations. In the early days of China's outbreak much of the news coverage was driven by online accounts and digital-only media outlets which circulated both news and rumors.During the pandemic, "‘self-media’ maliciously created rumors and casually disregarded others’ privacy, severely impacting the stability and harmony of society and damaged the legal rights and interest of others,” the Cyberspace Administration said in a notice explaining the new policies.Ultimately, the new rules reflect the censors' worries, even if it isn't precisely clear what they are so insecure about, said Berkeley's Xiao.“In the past entire year, the control has been so tight that hardly anyone can speak about anything,” Xiao said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-steps-up-massive-campaign-of-online-controls-with-new-rule-for-bloggers-101613638576245.html
18-02-2021||World||Russian court weighs jail term for anti-Kremlin activist under 'undesirable' law||A Russian court on Thursday was expected to hand down a verdict in the trial of Anastasia Shevchenko, an anti-Kremlin activist whom state prosecutors want jailed for five years for carrying out activities on behalf of an "undesirable" group.Shevchenko, 41, a mother of two in southern Russia's Rostov-on-Don, was put under house arrest in early 2019 in what her supporters say is a politically motivated case to stop her activism and punish her for showing dissent publicly.She is accused of carrying out activities on behalf of Open Russia, a British-based group founded by exiled former oil tycoon and Kremlin critic Mikhail Khodorkovsky.It is one of more than 30 groups that Russia has labelled as undesirable and banned under a law adopted in 2015.Shevchenko's supporters say the specific activities she is accused of - taking part in an anti-Kremlin rally and a political seminar - were legal forms of political expression.They also say that the Open Russia movement, which she was part of, is a separate entity to the outlawed organisation.State prosecutors have asked the court to jail Shevchenko for five years.The verdict comes amid a crackdown on allies of jailed Kremlin critic Alexei Navalny who returned to Russia last month after recovering from a nerve agent poisoning in Siberia.Rights advocates say the laws on "undesirable" organisations and "foreign agents" can be used to pressure and target civil society members. Russia denies that and says the laws are needed to protect its national security from outside meddling.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/russian-court-weighs-jail-term-for-anti-kremlin-activist-under-undesirable-law-101613636998588.html
18-02-2021||World||Thailand’s second locally-made vaccine set to enter human trials||Thailand is set to begin human trials of a Covid-19 vaccine that deploys the same technology used by Moderna Inc. as the Southeast Asian nation pushes ahead with plans to develop its own shots against the coronavirus.Bangkok-based Chulalongkorn University will begin clinical trials as early as April, making it Thailand’s second inoculation program to enter clinical trials, according to Kiat Ruxrungtham, head researcher at the university’s Center of Excellence in Vaccine Research and Development. The center is using new mRNA technology, and testing in transgenic mice showed the vaccine can prevent clinical symptoms and viremia after two shots, he said.The university will enroll 72 participants in the first phase of human trials, while Phase 2 may involve between 300 to 600 participants. The two-dose vaccine will be administered three weeks apart and will be enlisted for a rolling review with the Thai drug regulator, Kiat said.Thailand last week announced that the first locally developed vaccine will enter clinical trials in March as authorities seek to cut reliance on imports. The country is likely to kick off its vaccination drive after the arrival of the first lot of 2 million doses ordered from China’s Sinovac Biotech Ltd. next week. The government has ordered an additional 61 million doses from AstraZeneca Plc. to inoculate 50% of its population by the end of the year.“Even though by the end of next year, we may have an oversupply of vaccine, we want to complete the vaccine development so that Thailand can be self-dependent for the next pandemic,” Kiat said on Thursday.If the trials are successful, Bangkok-based BioNet-Asia Co. can produce as many as 5 million doses of Chulalongkorn University’s vaccine by the end of this year and 20 million doses annually from 2022, Kiat said. The developer expects Thailand to approve the vaccine for emergency use after the completion of the second phase of clinical trials.The university has also started research on a second generation vaccine against the UK and South African variants of Covid-19 with a target to test it in mice in the next two months, Kiat said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/thailands-second-locally-made-vaccine-set-to-enter-human-trials-101613634595099.html
18-02-2021||World||Kunduz: Afghan Army frees 23 security personnel from Taliban jail||Afghan National Army (ANA) commandos have freed 23 security personnel and a civilian from a Taliban-run prison in northern Kunduz province, reported Pajhwok Afghan News.The rescue operation by ANA was carried on Wednesday night, reported Xinhua."The special operation was launched in Kabuli Qishlaq village of Haqtash district Wednesday night. No armed clash took place following the raid as the militants manning the Taliban hideout fled before troops' arrival," Mohammad Omar Haqtash, a local official.The freed people received medical treatment after they were shifted to an army camp, according to the official, reported Xinhua.The Taliban is yet to comment on the ANA rescue operations.More details are awaited.Meanwhile on Wednesday, the Afghan National Defense and Security Forces (ANDSF) killed 11 Taliban terrorists and wounded another four in the Babur area of Arghandab district, Kandahar province.The operation conducted by the ANDSF with the help of the air force aimed to clear the Babur area from the Taliban insurgents. The local Babur school, closed for a long period of time due to security reasons, has now reopened to students.The Taliban controls around two-thirds of Afghan territory, including all districts around the capital.Despite the claims of general support in the controlled lands, the Taliban continue to oppose all attempts at holding democratic elections in the country. The peace efforts also appeared to be undermined by the Joe Biden administration's ongoing revision of the Taliban-US deal, signed by Donald Trump administration in February 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/kunduz-afghan-army-frees-23-security-personnel-from-taliban-jail-101613634098715.html
18-02-2021||World||Global Covid-19 infections drop to slowest pace since October||Almost a year after the World Health Organization declared the coronavirus a pandemic, there are some encouraging signs as new global infections fall sharply.Fresh Covid-19 cases for the week ended February 14 were the lowest since October, at 2.7 million, according to data from Johns Hopkins University. That resulted in a 2.5% increase in total infections from the previous week, the weakest gain since the start of the pandemic and less than half the rate seen a month earlier.The death toll is also beginning to ease, yet at a less dramatic pace. Daily fatalities have averaged less than 10,000 over the past five days, down from a peak of more than 18,000 in mid-January.It’s too early to count vaccines as a major reason for the improvement in the data, and some of the trend may partly reflect lower testing because of holidays and severe winter storms in the US. But it’s clear that social-distancing behavior and lockdown efforts around the world are helping to keep down the numbers.Of course, it’s also too soon to declare a victory against the coronavirus. Variants -- those already identified as well as others that may emerge -- present a very real threat to the recovery, and could send infections climbing once again. Health officials are warning against complacency. Global herd immunity is years away, according to some calculations, and so is the revival of long-haul travel.Two factors will likely help keep cases and deaths lower in the months ahead. The first is the coming of spring in the Northern Hemisphere, as the virus tends to be less active during warmer weather. The other is that the biggest vaccination campaign in history is just getting started. Already, more than 186 million shots have been administered across 82 countries, and more regions are set to start inoculations in coming weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/global-covid-19-infections-drop-to-slowest-pace-since-october-101613633787363.html
18-02-2021||World||Myanmar coup: UN rights expert 'terrified' as more military deployed in cities ahead of public demonstrations||The UN Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights in Myanmar has warned of the potential surge in violence, as protests continue against the military who overthrew the democratically elected government.This comes after reports emerged that a "secretive trial" of State Counsellor Aung San Suu Kyi and President Win Myint began being conducted on Tuesday, United Nations said in a statement on Wednesday.On Tuesday, Special Rapporteur Tom Andrews had said in a statement that he is "terrified" that violence could break out, as additional soldiers have been deployed in towns and cities, including the commercial hub Yangon, where demonstrations are planned."I am terrified that given the confluence of these two developments - planned mass protests and troops converging - we could be on the precipice of the military committing even greater crimes against the people of Myanmar," Andrews said, as quoted by UN news.The Special Rapporteur also called on the international business community to take "immediate" action.As the military coup continues to persist, Myanmar's online businesses are struggling due to night-time curfew and internet outage from 1 am to 9 am, reported Myanmar Times. Online shop owners said that the sales have declined by half in recent days following disruptions in connectivity and slow internet speed."Online shops function by selling and buying on the internet. If the connection between sellers and buyers is lost then we cannot sell anything," said Ma Thiri, an online entrepreneur.On February 1, Myanmar's military staged a coup and overthrew the democratically elected government of the NLD, alleging voter fraud in November 2020 elections that saw the NLD securing a resounding victory.The military detained several political officials and activists including State Counsellor Suu Kyi and President Win Myint, and declared a one-year emergency.Despite military repression, widespread protests continue across Myanmar, including Yangon and other key cities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/myanmar-coup-un-rights-expert-terrified-as-more-military-deployed-in-cities-101613633484344.html
18-02-2021||World||Nepal approves Chinese Covid-19 vaccine for emergency use, to get 500,000 doses||Nepal approved on Thursday the emergency use of a Covid-19 vaccine developed by an affiliate of China’s Sinopharm , a government official said, the second vaccine cleared after AstraZeneca's product.The move paves the way for China to donate 500,000 doses of the Sinopharm vaccine to the Himalayan nation, which last month received one million doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine free of charge from its other big neighbour India.Nepal will also buy the AstraZeneca vaccine from India."Conditional permission has been granted to the Chinese vaccine for its emergency use in Nepal," said Santosh K.C, a senior official in the Department of Drug Administration.Nepal launched its immunisation drive on Jan. 27 beginning with medical workers, and plans to eventually cover 72% of the South Asian country's 30 million people.Health and Population Minister Hridayesh Tripathi told Reuters Nepal would soon buy two million doses of the AstraZeneca shot, made by the Serum Institute of India, for $4 each, the same price that Bangladesh is paying."We have received a good price … we must not miss this opportunity to purchase it,” Tripathi said.Authorities say Nepal is also expecting vaccines from alliances backed by the World Health Organisation which distribute shots to poorer countries.Two other vaccines – Russia's Sputnik V and one made by India’s Bharat Biotech - are waiting to be cleared by the government.In recent years, China and India have jockeyed for influence in Nepal and poured millions of dollars into aid and investment in infrastructure.But demand for vaccines in the country with poor health infrastructure has offered India, the world's biggest vaccine maker, a way to claw back ground. India has donated or sold Covid-19 shots to two dozen countries.Nepal has reported 273,070 Covid-19 cases and 2,055 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nepal-approves-chinese-covid-19-vaccine-for-emergency-use-to-get-500-000-doses-101613632831385.html
18-02-2021||World||Sri Lanka cancels Imran Khan's planned address to its Parliament: Report||Sri Lanka has cancelled Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan’s planned address to its Parliament during his upcoming visit to Colombo, according to media reports.Sergeant-at-Arms of Parliament, Narendra Fernando said he has informed Parliament that the Pakistan Prime Minister’s visit to Sri Lanka will go ahead as scheduled, the Colombo Gazette website reported on Wednesday.However, the Foreign Ministry had informed Parliament officials that his proposed visit to the Parliament complex will not take place.Pakistan Prime Minister Khan will arrive in Sri Lanka on February 22 on a two-day official state visit.Khan, who will be the first head of state to visit the country since the Covid-19 pandemic, is to hold talks with President Gotabaya Rajapaksa, Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa and Foreign Minister Dinesh Gunawardena during the visit.It is said that the speech to Parliament had been included in Khan’s itinerary at the Pakistan government's request. However, it was later cancelled and Sri Lankan media gave various reasons for the cancellation of Khan’s address, Pakistan's Dawn newspaper reported on Thursday.The address was scheduled for February 24.Also read| Facebook Australia’s strike on media blocks government pages, satire sitesAccording to Sri Lanka’s daily Express, Foreign Secretary Jayanath Colombage said that Speaker Mahinda Yapa Abeywardena had requested for the cancellation of Khan's address, citing Covid-19.Dawn newspaper quoting Sri Lankan media reports that there were elements within the Sri Lankan government, who did not want the speech to take place as they feared that doing so could further harm ties with India, which have already been strained after the cancellation of a deal over the East Container Terminal in Colombo port, Dawn newspaper said.It was expected that Khan would raise the Kashmir issue during his speech, which could have upset Delhi, it said.Tensions between India and Pakistan spiked after New Delhi abrogated provisions of Article 370 of the Constitution to withdraw Jammu and Kashmir''s special status and bifurcated it into two Union Territories in 2019.Pakistan has been trying to internationalise the Kashmir issue but India has asserted that the abrogation of Article 370 was its "internal matter".Also read| No electricity, no water, Texans struggle through historic coldAnother speculation doing the rounds is that the Sri Lankan government was concerned about Khan speaking about the rights of Muslims in Sri Lanka, who have faced abuses at the hands of Buddhist majority, rising anti-Muslim sentiments, and biased government actions.The Sri Lankan government had made compulsory cremation rule for those dying from Covid-19, enraging the Muslim community in the country.The government, however, earlier this month exempted the Muslims from cremation and allowed them to bury their dead after a global outcry over the issue.Khan had welcomed the Sri Lankan government’s decision.The Pakistan Prime Minister’s visit, scheduled a month after Indian External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar’s three-day visit to Colombo, will coincide with the 46th UN Human Rights Council session in Geneva, where a new resolution on Sri Lanka is likely to be adopted.Prime Minister Narendra Modi had addressed Sri Lanka's Parliament in 2015.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/sri-lanka-cancels-imran-khan-s-planned-address-to-its-parliament-report-101613631407223.html
18-02-2021||World||Mutation in spike protein makes coronavirus 8 times more infectious: Study||The D614G mutation in the spike protein of the novel coronavirus renders it up to eight times more infectious in human cells than the initial virus that originated in China, according to a study.The spike protein is used by SARS-CoV-2, the virus which causes Covid-19, to enter the host cells.The research, published in the journal eLife, confirms findings that D614G -- one of several mutations in the concerning variants that have emerged in the UK, South Africa, and Brazil -- makes the coronavirus more transmissible."The mutation has reached near universal prevalence and is included in all current variants of concern," said Neville Sanjana, assistant professor of biology at New York University (NYU) in the US."Confirming that the mutation leads to more transmissibility may help explain, in part, why the virus has spread so rapidly over the past year," said Sanjana.The researchers noted that the D614G mutation in the coronavirus spike protein likely emerged in early 2020, and is now the most prevalent and dominant form of the virus in many countries around the world.Scientists have been working to understand the functional significance of these mutations and whether they meaningfully change how infectious or deadly the virus is.In the latest study, the researchers introduced a virus with the D614G mutation into human lung, liver, and colon cells.They also introduced the version of the virus without the mutation found early on in the pandemic into these same cell types for comparison.The team found that the D614G variant increased transmissibility of the virus up to eight-fold as compared to the original virus.The researchers also found that the spike protein mutation made the virus more resistant to being split by other proteins.This provides a possible mechanism for the variant's increased ability to infect cells, as the hardier variant resulted in a greater proportion of intact spike protein per virus, they said."The D614G variant infects human cells much more efficiently than the wild type," said Zharko Daniloski, a postdoctoral fellow in Sanjana's lab at NYU and the New York Genome Center.The findings support a growing consensus among scientists that the D614G variant is more infectious, the resaerchers said.They noted that findings on the increased transmissibility of the D614G variant may influence Covid-19 vaccine development.It may be beneficial for future booster shots to include diverse forms of the spike protein from different circulating variants, according to the researchers.This is because the vaccines with emergency use authorisation, as well as those under development, were created using the original spike sequence, they said.Studies are underway to understand how well these vaccines protect against the variants that emerged in the UK, South Africa, and Brazil, all of which contain the D614G mutation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/mutation-in-spike-protein-makes-coronavirus-eight-times-more-infectious-study-101613631845043.html
18-02-2021||World||SA variant could reduce vaccine protection by two-thirds: Pfizer, BioNTech||A laboratory study suggests that the South African variant of the coronavirus may reduce antibody protection from the Pfizer Inc/BioNTech SE vaccine by two-thirds, and it is not clear if the shot will be effective against the mutation, the companies said on Wednesday.The study found the vaccine was still able to neutralize the virus and there is not yet evidence from trials in people that the variant reduces vaccine protection, the companies said.Still, they are making investments and talking to regulators about developing an updated version of their mRNA vaccine or a booster shot, if needed.For the study, scientists from the companies and the University of Texas Medical Branch (UTMB) developed an engineered virus that contained the same mutations carried on the spike portion of the highly contagious coronavirus variant first discovered in South Africa, known as B.1.351. The spike, used by the virus to enter human cells, is the primary target of many Covid-19 vaccines.Researchers tested the engineered virus against blood taken from people who had been given the vaccine, and found a two- thirds reduction in the level of neutralizing antibodies compared with its effect on the most common version of the virus prevalent in US trials.Their findings were published in the New England Journal of Medicine (NEJM).Because there is no established benchmark yet to determine what level of antibodies are needed to protect against the virus, it is unclear whether that two-thirds reduction will render the vaccine ineffective against the variant spreading around the world.However, UTMB professor and study co-author Pei-Yong Shi said he believes the Pfizer vaccine will likely be protective against the variant."We don't know what the minimum neutralizing number is. We don't have that cutoff line," he said, adding that he suspects the immune response observed is likely to be significantly above where it needs to be to provide protection.That is because in clinical trials, both the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine and a similar shot from Moderna Inc conferred some protection after a single dose with an antibody response lower than the reduced levels caused by the South African variant in the laboratory study.Even if the concerning variant significantly reduces effectiveness, the vaccine should still help protect against severe disease and death, he noted. Health experts have said that is the most important factor in keeping stretched healthcare systems from becoming overwhelmed.More work is needed to understand whether the vaccine works against the South African variant, Shi said, including clinical trials and the development of correlates of protection - the benchmarks to determine what antibody levels are protective.Pfizer and BioNTech said they were doing similar lab work to understand whether their vaccine is effective against another variant first found in Brazil.Moderna published a correspondence in NEJM on Wednesday with similar data previously disclosed elsewhere that showed a sixfold drop antibody levels versus the South African variant.Moderna also said the actual efficacy of its vaccine against the South African variant is yet to be determined. The company has previously said it believes the vaccine will work against the variant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/sa-variant-could-significantly-reduce-vaccine-protection-by-two-thirds-pfizer-101613630892162.html
18-02-2021||World||Back-to-basics Agbal hopes this time is different at Turkey's central bank||Naci Agbal, Turkey's new central bank governor, began his career as a financial inspector three decades ago. He hopes such devotion to the rules will see him - and the economy - through one of the trickiest turnaround jobs in emerging markets.Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan appointed Agbal in early November as the lira touched a record low and double-digit inflation was rising even higher. He has since hiked interest rates to 17% from 10.25%, sending the lira rallying beyond all peers.For Agbal, 53, a former finance minister who is close to Erdogan, emphasizing the need to finally get inflation down to an official 5% target is the obvious strategy given it is a central banker's raison d'etre.But for foreign investors and Turks alike, disillusioned by what many call economic mismanagement in recent years, it has come as an abrupt and pleasant surprise.They also wonder how long it will last given Erdogan fired Agbal's two predecessors after only brief stints, and the president continues to publicly criticise high rates and espouse the unorthodox view that they cause inflation.Agbal's answer, according to interviews with the man himself and several colleagues, is that this time will be different.His supporters say straight talk about Turkey's economic challenges, early evidence that an orthodox monetary policy is working, and Agbal's ties with Erdogan should allow the central bank to keep rates sufficiently high without political interference."Given the point we had reached, it is obvious that a strong monetary tightening must be implemented in order... to restore the disinflation process as soon as possible, and that this will continue for a long time," Agbal told Reuters this month."If you abandon a tight policy stance... at an early stage, past experiences show that inflation moves upward again," he said on Feb. 5 in his first interview as governor.A senior official who worked with Agbal at the finance ministry said "he does what he considers to be right" above all."If a step is necessary that Erdogan will not like he would go to the presidential palace and say: 'Mr. President, this needs to be done' and he would explain why," the person said, requesting anonymity.The presidential palace did not respond to a request for comment on central bank independence. The government has previously said the bank sets policy independently.LITTLE ALTERNATIVESAgbal started working up the ranks at the finance ministry in 1989. He later became vice chair of the inspections board, then headed the general directorate of revenues and later became undersecretary. He was finance minister from 2015-2017.Seen as a well-prepped technocrat working mostly behind the scenes, Agbal was also a former lawmaker in the ruling AK Party.But his success will hinge on whether Erdogan, slipping in some opinion polls, now privately acknowledges there is little alternative to high rates if he hopes to relieve public angst over soaring costs of living and lost jobs.The central bank's FX reserves are badly depleted and its reputation damaged after years of financial engineering and unorthodox moves analysts said were meant to boost economic growth rather than lower inflation, which was 15% last month.The test of Agbal's sway over the government may come when inflation begins to dip later this year, analysts say."The only thing which matters is to what extent Erdogan will leave monetary policy experts to do their job and remain patient with high rates," said Commerzbank analyst Tatha Ghose.Agbal's comments in his Reuters interview, Ghose said, "highlight conventional monetary policy thinking (and) display keen awareness of which topics the market needs more convincing on."The palace did not respond to a request for comment on the president's views on higher interest rates. Erdogan said after Agbal's first rate hike in November that such "bitter pills" were necessary.The bank's policymakers are expected on Thursday to hold rates steady at 17%, the highest in any advanced or developing economy.SIMPLIFYAgbal's predecessor, Murat Uysal, had slashed rates from 24% before he was ousted in the Nov. 7 shock leadership overhaul.Before he left, Uysal formally lifted rates only once but he also used "backdoor" measures including regulations and a late liquidity window to hike average funding costs to more than 14% from 7.5% in July.The backdoor moves were understood by the market, if not the public, as the policy tightening long reviled by Erdogan.Agbal's headline-grabbing hikes to the key one-week repo rate, totalling 675 points, only tightened real funding costs by 225 to 275 points.Yet Agbal has moved to simplify things: he returned to funding the market at the main rate; re-wrote policy committee statements to stress a "permanent" inflation drop; and told Reuters this month the bank no longer sought foreign swap lines.After two years of burning through FX reserves - which buffer a country against financial crisis - no one expects the central bank under Agbal to support state-bank interventions worth some $130 billion to support the lira.Since Agbal took the reins, the currency has soared 20%, by far the best in emerging markets."There could be steps that are necessary but they will not be liked by politicians," said a senior economic policymaker who also requested anonymity. "If it needs to be done he will do it. I think he received that authority."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/backtobasics-agbal-hopes-this-time-is-different-at-turkey-s-central-bank-101613623295126.html
18-02-2021||World||Indonesia to punish those who refuse to take Covid-19 vaccine||Indonesia is requiring those eligible for the Covid-19 vaccine to take the shots as the country seeks ways to quicken its inoculation program to curb Southeast Asia’s largest outbreak.The government can punish those who refuse the vaccine by stopping or delaying social assistance programs and administrative services as well as impose fines, according to a revised presidential rule. The actual form of the sanctions are left to local governments to decide.Making the Covid-19 vaccine compulsory is an unusual move amid widespread hesitance toward the shots that were rushed in its development.Also read| India’s Covid-19 tally soars past 10.95 million with 12,881 cases in 24 hoursA survey last September found that about 65% of Indonesians would want to get the shots, while the rest were concerned about the cost, health risks and whether the vaccine would be halal. The government has since made the vaccine free of charge.Indonesia has administered more than 1.7 million shots in a program that started with President Joko Widodo himself receiving the first dose, a bid to bolster public confidence in the Sinovac Biotech Ltd. vaccine. That’s a long way from the more than 180 million people that the government seeks to inoculate by the end of the year.The country has also signed deals with other manufacturers including AstraZeneca Plc and Novavax Inc., though those shots haven’t been shipped.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indonesia-to-punish-those-who-refuse-to-take-covid-19-vaccine-101613623280218.html
18-02-2021||World||Facebook Australia’s strike on media blocks government pages, satire sites||Facebook Inc.’s move to block the sharing of articles from Australian news media has swept up government information outlets like the weather bureau, nonprofit charities and even political satire pages.The pages for the Queensland and South Australia health services were among those affected, preventing them from serving Covid-19 information days ahead of a national vaccination program rollout. Australians were also prevented from accessing Foodbank Australia, Women’s Legal Shelter, the sites of some politicians and emergency service departments as well as the Australia Council of Trade Unions.“Government Pages should not be impacted by today’s announcement,” a Facebook spokesperson said. “As the law does not provide clear guidance on the definition of news content, we have taken a broad definition in order to respect the law as drafted. However, we will reverse any Pages that are inadvertently impacted.”The page for the Bureau of Meteorology has since been rectified, but other pages that were not intended to be caught up in the news-sharing block remain inaccessible in Australia. This has raised a chorus of criticism for the California-based company’s brute-force approach in its dispute with the government over how to compensate news outlets whose stories are shared on its platform.“They’ve created chaos, and it’s quite deliberate,” said Daniel Angus, an associate professor in digital communication at Queensland University of Technology. “It would be farcical for Facebook to suggest it can run a platform of that size with that global reach and claim it blocked government websites by mistake.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/facebook-australia-s-strike-on-media-blocks-government-pages-satire-sites-101613624410894.html
18-02-2021||World||US military's first India-born female Muslim chaplain graduates Chaplain Course||Saleha Jabeen, US military's first India-born female Muslim chaplain, has graduated from Air Force Basic Chaplain Course, vowing to take her duty as a spiritual mentor very seriously.The historic graduation ceremony was held on February 5, an official statement said on Wednesday.Jabeen said she was grateful for the opportunity and aware of the responsibility that she has to set an example and show that there is a place in the military for anyone who wants to serve."I did not have to compromise on any of my religious beliefs or convictions. I am surrounded with people who respect me and are willing to receive what I bring to the table as a woman, a faith leader, and an immigrant,” she said."I am provided with numerous opportunities to learn and develop skills that best equip me to be a successful officer and a chaplain in a pluralistic environment,” Jabeen said.Jabeen was commissioned in December as a Second Lieutenant at the Catholic Theological Union in Chicago, becoming the first female Muslim chaplain in the Department of the Defense. She came to the United States 14 years ago as an international student."I get to provide spiritual care to all service members, guardians and families and advise the commanders on religious and moral matters regardless of my faith, ethnicity or gender. Like our boss says, it has never been a better time to serve as a chaplain in the US Air Force Chaplain Corps,” she said.Capt. John Richardson, Air Force Chaplain Corps College staff chaplain, said that his goal is to create chaplains who are ready to provide front-line ministry upon graduation."They are trained to lead the units they serve spiritually. The bottom line is to care for Airmen - every single Airman. When they care for Airmen in a professional way, every other aspect of our calling falls into place: advising leaders and providing for the religious needs of our force,” Richardson said.Capt. Mara Title, Air Force Chaplain Corps College staff chaplain, said Jabeen’s addition to the chaplain corps will be of great benefit to everyone."The Air Force Chaplain Corps endeavors to promote diversity in all respects,” Title said."Chaplain Saleha Jabeen’s presence enables an even broader scope of spiritual care for our Airmen, and for this we are very grateful. She is as determined to take on the role of chaplain as she is kind, caring and compassionate. We are thrilled to have had the opportunity for her to graduate with the class of BCC 21A,” she said.Jabeen said she was passionate about her role as a chaplain, and takes her duty as a spiritual mentor very seriously."We all have a purpose that is specifically meant for us to fulfill,” she said."We must listen to our heart and follow our conviction. It is important to have people in our lives who model that for us. Choose that kind of mentorship and choose good companionship. I just want people to remember that God, or higher power or the values that people uphold, remind us that we all are created with a plan: to become the best versions of ourselves,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-military-s-first-india-born-female-muslim-chaplain-graduates-chaplain-course-101613623762069.html
18-02-2021||World||BOJ's Kuroda tell Suga March review aimed at sustaining easy policy||Japan's central bank governor said on Thursday he told the country's prime minister the bank would conduct a review of its policy tools in March to ensure it can maintain ultra-loose monetary settings for a long period.Governor Haruhiko Kuroda said he also told Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga that the global economy appeared to be picking up, based on estimates issued by the International Monetary Fund."I explained to the prime minister the Bank of Japan would conduct a review (of its tools) to make its policy more effective and sustainable, and announce the findings at its March rate review," Kuroda told reporters after meeting with Suga.The BOJ governor and the prime minister hold meetings once every few months as a regular practice to exchange views on the economy and policy.Kuroda's comments about the review follow the BOJ's December announcement that it would assess its policy tools in March as the hit to growth from the pandemic forces the central bank to maintain a massive and prolonged stimulus programme.Kuroda said Suga did not have any particular comment on the BOJ's March review and the two did not discuss the Tokyo Olympic Games.He also told reporters that while service spending remains sluggish, Japan's consumption was "picking up somewhat" and that exports and output were recovering to levels seen before the pandemic struck, Jiji news agency reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/bojs-kuroda-tell-suga-march-review-aimed-at-sustaining-easy-policy-101613621771057.html
18-02-2021||World||Amid Texas freeze, oil producers still shut; governor bans natural gas exports||Texas oil producers and refiners remained shut for a fifth day on Wednesday after several days of blistering cold, and the governor ordered a ban on natural gas exports from the state to try to speed the restoration of power.The cold snap, which has killed at least 21 people and knocked out power to more than 4 million people in Texas, is not expected to let up until this weekend.Governor Greg Abbott directed Texas natural gas providers not to ship outside the state until Sunday and asked the state energy regulator to enforce his export ban."That will also increase the power that’s going to be produced and sent to homes here in Texas," Abbott said at a news conference Wednesday.The ban prompted a response from officials in Mexico, which relies on imports via pipeline from Texas. More than 40% of US natural gas exports come from Texas.Texas produces more natural gas and oil than any other US state, and its operators, unlike those in North Dakota or Alaska, are not used to dealing with frigid temperatures.The state accounts for roughly one-quarter of US natural gas production, about 27.8 billion cubic feet per day, but it consumes only part of that, shipping the rest to other states or via pipeline to Mexico, according to the US Energy Information Administration.Texas' energy sector has been hit hard by the cold, with about 4 million barrels per day (bpd) of daily refining capacity shuttered and at least 1 million bpd of oil production out as well.Natural gas output also slumped. At this time a week ago, Texas was producing about 7.9 billion cubic feet per day, but that fell to 1.9 billion on Wednesday, according to preliminary data from Refinitiv Eikon. Natural gas accounts for half of Texas' power generation.Christi Craddick, chair of the Texas Railroad Commission, the state's oil and gas regulator, said late Wednesday the agency had received the governor's request and was reviewing it.The request set up a game of political football, according to a person familiar with the matter, between groups that do not have the authority to interfere with interstate commerce.US gas pipeline exports to Mexico dropped to 3.8 billion cubic feet (bcf) per day on Wednesday, down from an average over the past 30 days of 5.7 bcf, according to data from Refinitiv, about three-quarters of which comes from Texas.Mexico's economy minister, Tatiana Clouthier, said Wednesday she had contacted the US government's representative in Mexico, seeking to guarantee supplies of natural gas for Mexico during the cold snap."By not acting together, the results could be more complicated," she said on Twitter.One cargo of liquefied natural gas (LNG) loaded at Freeport LNG in Texas on Wednesday had been slated to sail to Mexico, according to Refinitiv Eikon data. The tanker remained off the coast of Texas. A Freeport LNG spokeswoman declined to comment.Operations at Cheniere Energy's Corpus Christi plant, the state's largest LNG producer, were halted by weather disruptions this week. A spokesman declined to comment on the governor's order.Overall, daily US natural gas production is down by roughly 19% from the end of last week to 71.9 bcf per day on Wednesday, according to preliminary Eikon data.With more snow expected in key oil-and-gas production areas like the Permian and northern Louisiana, production is expected to stay offline through Friday, said Anna Lenzmeier, energy analyst at BTU Analytics."The second half of this week is shaping up to be just as tumultuous as the long weekend, and natural gas prices could continue to top triple digits before the weekend," she said.Several Texas ports, including Houston, Galveston and key LNG exporting sites at Freeport and Sabine Pass were closed due to weather, according to US Coast Guard Petty Officer Jonathan Lally.One bcf of gas can supply about 5 million US homes per day.Producers in the Permian Basin, the largest US oilfield, said electrical outages were the main issue, and that until power was restored, restarting any frozen equipment would be challenging.Roughly 1 million bpd of crude production has been halted, according to Wood Mackenzie analysts, and it could be weeks before it is fully restored.The supply disruptions drove further increases in oil prices, which ended the session up more than 1.5%. US natural gas climbed to a more than three-month high after rising more than 10% on Tuesday.The freeze has also sent Canadian natural gas exports to the United States soaring to levels last seen in 2010, said IHS Markit analyst Ian Archer.Net Canadian exports have jumped above 7.5 bcf a day for the last couple of days and Archer estimated they were close to 8 bcf per day on Wednesday."We are seeing just absolutely huge withdrawals and exports to the US," Archer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/amid-texas-freeze-oil-producers-still-shut-governor-bans-natural-gas-exports-101613623260546.html
18-02-2021||World||Chinese Cancer Screening Firm Soars 185% in Hong Kong IPO Debut||Chinese cancer screening biotech firm New Horizon Health Ltd. soared 185% on its Hong Kong debut on Thursday, the latest initial public offering to pop on its first trading day after attracting billions of dollars of orders from retail investors.New Horizon Health opened at HK$76, up from the offer price of HK$26.66, which was already at the upper end of a marketed range. The biotech company raised $263 million in the IPO.Thursday’s pop shows that the IPO frenzy gripping Hong Kong is not abating, coming two weeks after short-video company Kuaishou Technology leaped 161% in its debut, the second-best ever for an IPO over $1 billion in the world.Over 1 million Hong Kong investors put in orders worth some HK$844 billion ($109 billion) for New Horizon Health’s IPO. That represents a subscription rate of 4,133 times, the second-highest on record after Most Kwai Chung’s 2018 IPO, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.First-time share sales have had their best start to the year on record in Asia, helped by Kuaishou’s mammoth offering and fueled by markets awash with liquidity, a stock rally, as well as hordes of retail investors bidding for shares. The dizzying first-day pops as well as the flurry of IPOs by blank-cheque companies in the US have led some to warn of overheated markets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinese-cancer-screening-firm-soars-185-in-hong-kong-ipo-debut-101613613257843.html
18-02-2021||World||No electricity, no water, Texans struggle through historic cold with more dark days ahead||Texas officials warned of "disasters within the disaster" of historic cold weather that left millions without heat for a third day on Wednesday, telling residents to prepare for energy to not return until the weekend.Residents in over 100 counties in Texas have been told to boil their drinking water as treatment plants continue to suffer from energy blackouts, officials said. Upward of 12 million people in the state -- the country's second largest with a population of roughly 29 million -- have either have no drinking water on tap in their homes or have drinking water available only intermittently.Energy remains out for 2.7 million households, officials said. With freezing temperatures expected through the weekend, getting the lights back on will be a slow process, as the state has lost 40% of its generating capacity, with natural gas wells and pipelines, along with wind turbines, frozen shut.Hospitals in Houston, the state's largest city, and elsewhere in Texas have reported they have no water. Nearly two dozens deaths have been attributed to the cold snap. Officials say they suspect many more people have died - but their bodies have not been discovered yet.On Wednesday evening, officials told residents in the most populous parts of the state to brace for another round of freezing rain and snow in the next 24 hours.The cold forced some residents to choose between staying in dark and cold homes, some with frozen or broken water pipes, or face possible COVID-19 exposure at local relief centers."This is in many ways disasters within the disaster," said Judge Lina Hidalgo, the top elected official in Harris County, which encompasses Houston. "The cascading effects are not going to go away."COLD AND SILENCEGovernor Greg Abbott told a news conference that he expected a nuclear plant in south Texas to come back online Wednesday night, which along with coal-fired plants' returning to operations should provide enough power for 400,000 homes.Abbott, a Republican, has demanded an investigation into the management of the Electric Reliability Council of Texas (ERCOT), a cooperative responsible for 90% of the state's electricity.Critics say ERCOT did not heed federal warnings after a similar cold-weather meltdown in 2011 to ensure that Texas' energy infrastructure, which relies primarily on natural gas, was winterized."Every source of power the state of Texas has access to has been compromised because of the cold temperature or because of equipment failures," Abbott said.Laura Nowell, a 45-year-old mother of four in Waco, said her family has been without electricity since before dawn on Monday and has tried to keep warm by bundling up and sitting in their car for short stints."We've never had this much cold. There is ice everywhere," Nowell said, adding that she was frustrated by the lack of communication about rolling blackouts to conserve the power grid. "Tell me what's going on. It's silence."'WE'RE MAKESHIFTING'Texas' deregulated energy market gives few financial incentives for operators to prepare for the rare bout of intensely cold weather, an issue critics have been pointing out for years.ERCOT, which instituted blackouts to cope with the surge in demand, asked that people focus on fixing the problem first before assigning blame. It said it hoped that soon customers would have to cope only with short rolling blackouts."The best case at this point is that today or tomorrow we're able to at least get back down to the point where all the consumers are experiencing outages that are no longer than 30 minutes to an hour at a time," Dan Woodfin, ERCOT's senior director of system operations, told a briefing.Austin Mayor Steve Adler, a Democrat, blamed the power failures on a lack of preparedness and also called for reforms."We need to start taking a look at extreme weather. It's not as unusual as it used to be," Adler told MSNBC.The Federal Emergency Management Agency has supplied Texas with generators and is preparing to provide diesel fuel to help ensure availability of backup power, White House spokeswoman Jen Psaki told reporters on Wednesday. President Joe Biden approved an emergency declaration for the state on Sunday.People were coping the best they could.Trilby Landry, a 57-year-old homeless man, was escaping the cold at the Gallery Furniture store in Houston, which opened its doors as a warming center, joining people who had fled homes with busted heating systems and water pipes."We're makeshifting," Landry said in an phone interview. "Everybody's in a whirlwind right now. They are letting people sleep on couches and chairs. People just want to go home."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/no-electricity-no-water-texans-struggle-through-historic-cold-with-more-dark-days-ahead-101613613985194.html
18-02-2021||World||Australian emergency services hit by Facebook ban on news||Several Australian emergency services were hit by Facebook's local ban on news content Thursday, with pages that warn the public about Covid outbreaks, bushfires and cyclones rendered blank.Fire, health and meteorological services around the country saw problems with their Facebook pages, amid several serious public emergencies.The accounts were affected as Facebook moved to block news content in the country, with the government poised to adopt legislation that would force digital platforms to pay for news content.Environment Minister Sussan Ley confirmed the government's Bureau of Meteorology's page "has been impacted by the sudden Facebook news content restrictions", urging people to visit the website instead.This happened as the bureau issued a series of flash flooding warnings for parts of Queensland state after heavy rainfall overnight.The Western Australia fire department's Facebook page was also wiped clean as the state braced for "catastrophic fire danger" conditions.Western Australian MP Madeleine King described the situation as "Incredible. Unbelievable. Unacceptable" and there were mounting calls for Facebook to quickly fix the situation.At least three state health departments, which issue regular updates on the coronavirus pandemic to hundreds of thousands of Australians, were also affected.Several government accounts in the Australian Capital Territory -- which incorporates the national capital Canberra -- were affected, along with its health department."The ACT Government account is verified by Facebook and we have contacted them to rectify the situation," a spokesperson said."The ACT Health Facebook page in particular is an important channel for distributing information about the COVID-19 situation."The national sexual assault and domestic violence service, some charities and even Facebook's own page also appeared blank to users in Australia.Facebook's response contrasted with Google, which in recent days has brokered deals with media groups -- including one announced earlier in the day with Rupert Murdoch's News Corp. -- in response to the regulatory push.Australian Treasurer Josh Frydenberg said Thursday he had agreed with Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg "to try to find a pathway forward".The country of 25 million has between 16 and 18 million daily users, according to local media.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/australian-emergency-services-hit-by-facebook-ban-on-news-101613613340786.html
18-02-2021||World||Chinese markets reopen with stocks poised for all-time high||Chinese stocks jumped after reopening for the first time after the Lunar New Year break on Thursday, poised to close at a new record high.The CSI 300 rose 2% to 5,922.07 points, taking it above its 2007 closing peak. During the break, Chinese stocks listed in Hong Kong gained 3.5% since onshore markets last traded, while the offshore yuan has been steady after hitting its strongest level versus the greenback in 32 months this week.Even though the Chinese equity benchmark is trading at its highest valuation in nearly six years, traders remain bullish about the market, driven by strong corporate earnings, ample cash in China’s financial system and low borrowing costs.Thursday’s reopening amid the pandemic recovery is a stark contrast to 2020, when Chinese markets plunged by the most value on record after an extended Lunar New Year break.Also read| Nearly 5,000 Hong Kong citizens sign up for new UK visa - The Times“The market will stay bullish,” said Kingston Lin, managing director of the asset management department at Canfield Securities in Hong Kong. “The only matter is how much it will rise.”Traders had bid the CSI 300 Index up to 13-year highs in January, but momentum cooled as investors shifted a record level of money into Hong Kong stocks as domestic prices surged. The city’s $7.8 trillion equity market should also benefit from the reopening of trading links with the mainland, after an influx of mainland cash helped propel a world-beating rally for the Hang Seng Index.China provided medium-term funds to lenders on Thursday, giving banks some relief after its cash drainage last month triggered the country’s worst liquidity squeeze since 2015.The People’s Bank of China offered 200 billion yuan ($31 billion) of one-year liquidity with its medium-term lending facility, according to a statement. That helped offset the loans that mature this month. It kept the interest rate on the funds unchanged at 2.95%.Also read| Southeast Asia's support for US over China increased under Biden admin: ReportHow China’s central bank balances support for an uneven economic recovery without fueling excessive speculation is a key driver of investor sentiment. Traders were rattled by January’s liquidity squeeze when the PBOC withdrew cash from the financial system for the first time in six months, but authorities have drip-fed funding since then to calm money markets and suppress interest rates.While there are signs China’s economic recovery from the pandemic remains unbalanced, it is outpacing the rest of the world, having roared back to pre-pandemic growth rates in the fourth quarter.“We’re all talking about the global pandemic recovery but the speed of recovery in China has been faster than any other country,” said Steven Leung, executive director at UOB Kay Hian (Hong Kong) Ltd. “While there are still sufficient funds in the market, more foreign investors will continue eyeing Chinese markets.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinese-markets-reopen-with-stocks-poised-for-all-time-high-101613612220379.html
18-02-2021||World||Microsoft Covid-19 vaccine scheduling software deal ended by Iowa||Iowa is backing out of a plan to use Microsoft Corp. software for registering patients and scheduling Covid-19 vaccinations, the latest challenge to the software giant’s efforts to make money helping states overwhelmed with residents looking for shots.Iowa Governor Kim Reynolds announced the change of heart at a news conference Wednesday, saying state officials concluded it would be too hard to combine existing scheduling systems and were trying to avoid disruptions. The state will instead focus on bolstering its current systems. Just last week, New Jersey Governor Phil Murphy and members of his administration complained about significant glitches in that state’s Microsoft-built vaccination scheduling system. “After learning more about the breadth of Microsoft's solution and reviewing the challenges faced by some other states in their rollouts, and speaking with our vaccine partners, we have made the determination not to move forward with the contract,' Reynolds said. 'It quickly became apparent that integrating the many already existing registration and scheduling platforms that are used by some of our public health departments, pharmacies, as well as other vaccine providers, it would not be possible in a timely manner without significant disruption to their current systems and we did not want to slow down the progress that we're making.'In New Jersey, the system had yet to work correctly after five weeks, two administration officials who asked not to be identified said last week. That was a high-profile stumble for Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft, which is trying to build a big business by selling software to run hospitals and health care systems and has been touting its ability to aid the nationwide effort to inoculate residents against the coronavirus. “We remain focused on helping governments manage their Covid-19 vaccination programs as quickly, safely and efficiently as possible,” Microsoft said in an emailed statement.Iowa had said last week it would use Microsoft’s tools for the vaccine rollout. The Microsoft system was expected to provide Iowans with a registration system allowing eligible residents to schedule vaccination appointments with approved providers. The state expanded vaccine eligibility to certain Iowans 65 years old or older on Feb. 3.Last week, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention reported Iowa was 47th among states ranked by the percentage of state residents receiving vaccine. Reynolds announced Wednesday that Iowa had improved its vaccination penetration rate and now ranks 22nd among U.S. states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/microsoft-covid-19-vaccine-scheduling-software-deal-ended-by-iowa-101613612749373.html
18-02-2021||World||UN: 130 countries haven't received single Covid-19 vaccine dose||United Nations chief Antonio Guterres on Wednesday (local time) slammed the "wildly uneven and unfair" distribution of coronavirus vaccines and said that only 10 countries have administered 75 % of all vaccinations and demanding a global effort to get all people in every nation inoculated as soon as possible.According to a report by Al Jazeera, Guterres, while addressing a high-level meeting of the UN Security Council, said 130 countries have not received a single dose of vaccine."At this critical moment, vaccine equity is the biggest moral test before the global community," he said.The UN chief called for an urgent 'Global Vaccination Plan' to bring together those with the power to ensure fair vaccine distribution - scientists, vaccine producers and those who can fund the effort - to ensure all people in every nation get inoculated as soon as possible, Al Jazeera reported.He urged the leading economic members of G20 to establish an emergency task force to bring together "the pharmaceutical companies and key industry and logistics actors".Also read| Coronavirus spread in England falls sharply ahead of Johnson reviewEarlier on Wednesday, US State Department Secretary Antony Blinken at the United Nations Security Council (UNSC) had emphasised the need to expand access to safe and effective Covid-19 vaccines.He also urged the countries to not allow "usage of the vaccine as an excuse to violate human rights or fundamental freedoms"."To better understand this pandemic and prepare for the next one, all countries must make available all data from the earliest days of any outbreak. And going forward, all countries should participate in a transparent and robust process for preventing and responding to health emergencies, so the world learns as much as possible as soon as possible.Transparency, information sharing, access for international experts - these must be the hallmarks of our common approach to what is truly a global challenge," he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/un-130-countries-haven-t-received-single-covid-19-vaccine-dose-101613610627744.html
18-02-2021||World||In US, power outages linger for millions as another icy storm looms||Utility crews raced Thursday to restore power to nearly 3.4 million customers around the US who were still without electricity or heat in the aftermath of a deadly winter storm, and another blast of ice and snow threatened to sow more chaos.The latest storm front was expected to bring more hardship, especially to states that are unaccustomed to such frigid weather — parts of Texas, Arkansas and the Lower Mississippi Valley.“There's really no letup to some of the misery people are feeling across that area,” said Bob Oravec, lead forecaster with the National Weather Service, referring to Texas.The system was forecast to move into the Northeast on Thursday. More than 100 million people live in areas covered by some type of winter weather warning, watch or advisory, the weather service said.At least 30 people have died in the extreme weather this week, some while struggling to find warmth inside their homes. In the Houston area, one family succumbed to carbon monoxide from car exhaust in their garage. Another perished as they used a fireplace to keep warm.Record low temperatures were reported in city after city. Scientists say the polar vortex, a weather pattern that usually keeps to the Arctic, is increasingly spilling into lower latitudes and staying there longer, and global warming caused by humans is partly responsible.Utilities from Minnesota to Texas and Mississippi have implemented rolling blackouts to ease the burden on power grids straining to meet extreme demand for heat and electricity. In Mexico, rolling blackouts Wednesday covered more than one-third of the country after the storms in Texas cut the supply of imported natural gas.The worst US power outages by far have been in Texas, where 3 million homes and businesses remained without power as of midday Thursday. The state's power grid manager, the Electric Reliability Council of Texas, said electricity had been restored to 600,000 homes and businesses by Tuesday night, Officials did not know when power would be restored, but council President Bill Magness said he hoped many customers would see at least partial service restored by later Thursday or Friday.Magness also defended the decision to force outages “to prevent an event that would have been even more catastrophic than the terrible events we've seen this week.”Dashawn Walker, 33, was thrilled to find the power back on in his Dallas apartment Wednesday. He stayed at a suburban hotel Tuesday night after being without power since Sunday, but said he was charged $474 for one night.“It's crazy,” Walker said. “I mean why would y'all go up on the hotels in the middle of a crisis?"More than 200,000 additional customers were in the dark in four Appalachian states, and nearly that many in the Pacific Northwest, according to poweroutage.us, which tracks utility outage reports.Oklahoma's largest electric utility reported no outages Thursday, a day after rolling blackouts in and around Oklahoma City stopped electric-powered space heaters, furnaces and lights in minus-8 degree weather. But Oklahoma Gas & Electric warned customers of the potential for more short-term service interruptions due to the extreme cold and high demand for natural gas.Nebraska also avoided another round of rolling power outages as subzero temperatures started to ease.Entergy imposed rolling blackouts Wednesday night in Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi and Southeast Texas at the direction of its grid manager, the Midcontinent Independent System Operator, according to a statement from the New Orleans-based utility.The Southwest Power Pool, a group of utilities covering 14 states, said the blackouts were “a last resort to preserve the reliability of the electric system as a whole.”The weather also caused major disruptions to water systems in several Southern cities, including in Shreveport, Louisiana, where city fire trucks delivered water to several hospitals, and bottled water was being brought in for patients and staff, Shreveport television station KSLA reported.In Austin, Houston and other cities, residents were asked to stop letting water drip from pipes, a practice to prevent freezing, because of a major drop in water pressure. Houston residents also were told to boil their water — if they had power — because the pressure drop was allowing bacteria to seep into the pipes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/in-us-power-outages-linger-for-millions-as-another-icy-storm-looms-101613610824052.html
18-02-2021||World||Brooks-LaSure, Joe Biden's medicare pick becomes 1st black woman to lead post||President Joe Biden has picked a former Obama administration official to run the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services. The agency oversees government health insurance programs covering more than 1 out of 3 Americans and is a linchpin of the health care system.If confirmed by the Senate, Chiquita Brooks-LaSure would be the first Black woman to head CMS, which has under its umbrella Medicare, Medicaid, children’s health insurance and the Affordable Care Act, better known as “Obamacare.” The programs cover more than 130 million people, from newborns to nursing home residents.Brooks-LaSure has a long track record in government, having held health policy jobs at the White House, in Congress, and at CMS during the Obama administration. Most recently she led the Biden transition's “landing team” for the Department of Health and Human Services, laying the groundwork for the new administration. Before her return to government service, Brooks-LaSure was a managing director at the Manatt Health consultancy.Her nomination was confirmed by a person familiar with the White House decision, who spoke on condition of anonymity ahead of a formal announcement.Also read| Iran's Khamenei demands 'action' from Biden to revive nuclear dealCMS also plays a central role in the nation’s $4 trillion health care economy, setting Medicare payment rates for hospitals, doctors, labs and other service providers. Government payment levels become the foundation for private insurers. The agency also sets standards that govern how health care providers operate.Brooks-LaSure "gets the imperative of securing greater affordability for beneficiaries, taxpayers, and Medicare, Medicaid and the ACA marketplaces,” said Chris Jennings, a longtime health policy adviser to Democrats. “She is well-respected and liked by the department veterans who have worked with her in the past.”Years ago, Brooks-LaSure worked with Biden's nominee to run HHS, California Attorney General Xavier Becerra. She was a staffer on the House Ways and Means Committee and he was a senior member of the panel during the 2009-2010 drive to pass President Barack Obama's health care law. Senate committees will hold hearings next week on Becerra's nomination.Under Biden, Brooks-LaSure will be expected to grow Obamacare enrollment by promoting HealthCare.gov and trying to persuade holdout states to adopt Medicaid expansion. She's also expected to roll back Trump administration policies allowing states to impose work requirements on Medicaid recipients, as well as insurance rules seen as undermining Obamacare.Also read| Elon Musk should come clean: Tesla’s emissions are risingThroughout her career, Brooks-LaSure has worked on Medicaid policy, and that program has now grown to become a mainstay of coverage for many low-income working people. At CMS she'll have to confront Medicare's long-term financial problems, aggravated by a decline in payroll tax collections because of Covid-related job losses.Prescription drugs will be a tricky policy area for Brooks-LaSure. Biden wants to legally authorize Medicare to negotiate prices with drugmakers, but he may not be able to marshal enough support in a closely divided Congress. Brooks-LaSure will be tasked with finding ways to use the agency’s rule-making powers to rein in prices.Biden's pick was first reported by The Washington Post.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/brookslasure-joe-biden-s-medicare-pick-becomes-1st-black-woman-to-lead-post-101613607840911.html
18-02-2021||World||Boeing reminds pilots to monitor planes closely following Indonesia crash||Boeing Co has issued a technical bulletin to airlines reminding them to ensure pilots closely monitor the airplane's state and flight path to prevent a loss of control in flight, according to two people with knowledge of the matter.The bulletin was sent after Indonesia issued a preliminary report into a January 9 Sriwijaya Air crash that killed all 62 people on board a 737-500.It was not explicitly linked to that crash and covers other Boeing models but it addresses one of the potential areas of interest for investigators following the accident, pending the discovery of the cockpit voice recorder memory unit.Manufacturers have periodically issued such reminders and Boeing said it regularly communicates with customers on how they can safely and confidently operate their airplanes."In close coordination with investigative and regulatory authorities, these latest communications reinforce the importance of industry-wide and Boeing guidance and training materials on aircraft upset prevention and recovery," the US plane maker said.Bloomberg first reported on the issuance of the bulletin.Boeing, which was criticised for blaming pilots over a 2018 737 MAX crash in Indonesia later tied to a faulty system, has not issued any comment on the causes of the Sriwijaya crash.According to an industry-wide safety analysis issued by Airbus SE last year, loss of control in-flight represents the largest category - or 33% - of all accidents since the start of the jet age.Safety experts caution it is too early to say what caused the Sriwijaya crash. Most accidents are caused by a chain of separate factors.The Sriwijaya preliminary report found the plane had an imbalance in engine thrust that eventually led it into a sharp roll and then a final dive into the sea.When the plane reached 8,150 feet (2,484 m) after take-off, the left engine throttle lever moved back while the right lever stayed in its original position.One of the pilots was speaking to air traffic control and there is no evidence in the report that they noticed a difference in thrust.At about 10,900 feet, the autopilot disengaged and the plane rolled to the left more than 45 degrees and started its dive, crashing around 25 seconds later, the report said.The report highlighted the importance of upset recovery training for pilots and the recognition of repetitive plane defects, just over six years after an AirAsia Indonesia A320 crash where those were among the issues raised.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/boeing-reminds-pilots-to-monitor-planes-closely-following-indonesia-crash-101613607917886.html
18-02-2021||World||Nearly 5,000 Hong Kong citizens sign up for new UK visa - The Times||Nearly 5,000 Hong Kong citizens have applied for visas to live, work and study in the United Kingdom since changes that make it easier for people in the Asian financial hub to be granted entry, The Times newspaper reported.Britain changed its visa application programme in late January, allowing Hong Kong residents who hold a British National Overseas (BNO) passport to live in the UK for five years and eventually apply for citizenship.Britain made the visa changes after Beijing's imposition of a controversial national security law in Hong Kong last year.China and Hong Kong have said they will no longer recognise the BNO passport as a valid travel document from Jan. 31. BNO status was created by Britain in 1987 specifically for Hong Kong residents.Also read| Covid-19: About 2.6 million UK workers expect to be fired soonAbout half of the 5,000 applications received were from Hongkongers who were already in Britain, The Times reported, citing sources. Those people had already been offered temporary settlement in the UK for those fleeing China's security crackdown while waiting for the visa change.Britain and China have been arguing for months about what London and Washington say is an attempt to silence dissent in Hong Kong after pro-democracy protests in 2019 and 2020.Britain says it is fulfilling a historic and moral commitment to Hong Kong's people after Beijing imposed the security law on the semi-autonomous city that Britain says breaches the terms of agreements under which the colony was handed back to China in 1997.The UK government has forecast the new visa could attract more than 300,000 people and their dependants to Britain. Beijing said it would make them second-class citizens.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nearly-5-000-hong-kong-citizens-sign-up-for-new-uk-visa-the-times-101613607822948.html
18-02-2021||World||Coronavirus spread in England falls sharply ahead of Johnson review||Coronavirus infections in England have fallen “significantly” in recent weeks, a boost to U.K. Prime Minister Boris Johnson as he weighs how quickly to re-open Britain’s economy.National prevalence of the virus was down by two-thirds in the first half of February compared to January, according to a survey by Imperial College London and Ipsos Mori, one of the country’s largest coronavirus studies. The number of infected people fell to 51 per 10,000 at the time of the latest survey in February, down from 157 per 10,000 in January.Signs that a national lockdown are curbing the pandemic are welcome news for Johnson, who is under pressure to ease restrictions and help the U.K. economy rebound from its worst recession in 300 years. Johnson is due to set out a “road map” for easing the rules on Feb. 22, and has said he will look closely at the data regarding infections, hospitalizations and deaths due to the disease before making any decisions.“These findings show encouraging signs infections are now heading in the right direction across the country, but we must not drop our guard,” Health Secretary Matt Hancock said in a statement. “Cases and hospital admissions remain high.”Non-essential shops could be open from mid-April, followed by hospitality venues, hotels and some leisures facilities later in the month, Sky News reported Wednesday, citing an unpublished Whitehall document. Johnson has said he hopes face-to-face teaching in schools can begin again from March 8.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/coronavirus-spread-in-england-falls-sharply-ahead-of-johnson-review-101613608397315.html
18-02-2021||World||Oil extends gain with US crisis slamming nation’s crude output||Oil extended its rally toward $62 a barrel as a worsening US energy crisis took out almost 40% of the nation’s crude production.Futures in New York climbed as much as 1% after closing at a 13-month high on Wednesday. More than 4 million barrels a day of output is now offline, according to traders and executives, amid an unprecedented cold snap that’s frozen well operations and led to widespread power cuts. However, a spate of refinery outages has curbed demand for crude in the US, while gasoline consumption is also down as the cold keeps more Americans off the road.See also: Big Freeze in Texas Is Becoming a Global Oil Market CrisisThe supply shock is aiding an already frothy global oil market and is starting to impact global energy flows, with traders snapping up ocean-going tankers to haul millions of barrels of European diesel to the US Adding to the bullishness, the American Petroleum Institute reported an almost 6 million-barrel drop in US crude stockpiles before official data due later on Thursday.Crude has surged 27% this year as Saudi Arabia’s deep output cuts and an improving demand outlook encouraged investors. The rally was tempered somewhat on Wednesday following a Dow Jones report citing unnamed advisers that the kingdom is planning to boost production in the coming months. Many investors do expect that the Saudis will pump more from April.Saudi Arabia’s energy minister, meanwhile, urged fellow members of the OPEC+ oil alliance to remain cautious as they prepare to consider further output increases. The group will gather in early March to decide whether they can revive some more of the production halted during the coronavirus crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/oil-extends-gain-with-us-crisis-slamming-nation-s-crude-output-101613607940977.html
18-02-2021||World||Robinhood, Citadel reject conspiracies they halted ‘meme’ trades||Robinhood Markets and Citadel, central players in the GameStop Corp. saga that gripped markets last month, are using congressional testimony to push back against conspiracy theories circulating in Washington that they coordinated to restrict retail investors from adding to their bets.Robinhood Chief Executive Officer Vlad Tenev said in written testimony for a Thursday House Financial Services Committee hearing that the brokerage halted trades to meet demands from its clearinghouse. Claims it sought to help hedge funds are “absolutely false and market-distorting rhetoric,” he said.Ken Griffin, Citadel’s billionaire founder, said in his prepared remarks that he didn’t learn Robinhood had barred GameStop buy orders until after the restrictions were publicly announced. “I want to be perfectly clear: we had no role in Robinhood’s decision to limit trading in GameStop or any other of the “meme” stocks,” said Griffin, whose financial empire includes a hedge fund and massive market-maker Citadel Securities.The virtual hearing will offer lawmakers their first chance to grill executives involved in the recent stock-market frenzy, which alarmed both Wall Street and Washington. Chairwoman Maxine Waters, a California Democrat, has said she wants to scrutinize all players tied to the tumult to assess whether new rules are needed to curtail the influence of hedge funds and to strengthen guardrails for smaller investors.Gabe Plotkin, a hedge fund manager whose firm took heavy losses during last month’s Reddit-fueled trading, plans to tell Congress that he was “humbled” by the experience.“Melvin Capital played absolutely no role” in the decisions of trading platforms to limit the buying and selling of GameStop shares, according to Plotkin’s written testimony. “In fact, Melvin closed out all of its positions in GameStop days before platforms put those limitations in place.”‘Difficult Time’Plotkin used his testimony to clarify that Melvin Capital wasn’t “bailed out” by the $2.75 billion it received from Citadel, Point72 Asset Management and others last month. Even though the firm was going through a “difficult time,” it always had adequate funding and wasn’t seeking a cash injection. Citadel proactively reached out to become an investor, seeing it as an opportunity to “buy low,” Plotkin said in his remarks.Melvin Capital lost billions closing out its GameStop position and reducing other wagers. The firm’s assets fell to about $8 billion in January after starting the year with $12.5 billion.Keith Gill, a Reddit user known as “Roaring Kitty” who is credited with inspiring GameStop’s rally, will testify that he was merely an individual investor using public information to study companies. Gill, one of the most influential participants pushing GameStop on the WallStreetBets Reddit forum, was sued this week in Massachusetts for misrepresenting himself as an amateur investor and profiting by artificially inflating the price of the stock.“I did not solicit anyone to buy or sell the stock for my own profit,” Gill said in his testimony. “I did not belong to any groups trying to create movements in the stock price. I never had a financial relationship with any hedge fund. I had no information about GameStop except what was public. I did not know any people inside the company, and I never spoke to any insider.”Jennifer Schulp, director of financial regulation studies at Cato Institute and a late addition to the hearing’s lineup of speakers, will testify that rule changes may not be warranted in light of the minimal impact on markets. “By no means, though, should the GameStop phenomenon result in changes that restrict retail investors’ access to the markets,” she said.In his testimony, Tenev described the morning of Jan. 28, when the brokerage halted purchases of GameStop and other “meme stocks.” At 5:11 a.m., the industry’s clearinghouse -- a body that manages system-wide risk -- demanded a deposit of more than $1 billion from Robinhood, he said. Because the sum demanded was even larger than the amount of net capital the online brokerage had on hand, an additional charge of $2.2 billion was slapped on top, bringing the total amount due to about $3 billion. Robinhood complied with its net capital requirements at all times during this period, the company says.Around 7:30 a.m., in a scramble to meet the requirements, Robinhood decided to stop customers from buying GameStop and other volatile stocks. The clearinghouse then agreed to waive the entire $2.2 billion charge it had initially added, according to Tenev’s account. With an additional $737 million deposit that morning, combined with the amount Robinhood had already posted at the clearinghouse, the broker met its requirements for that day.To help prevent last month’s events from happening again, Robinhood has called on regulators to make the settlement period for stock trades instantaneous. Citadel’s Griffin also called for a shorter settlement time.Griffin, whose Citadel Securities pays Robinhood and other brokerages for the right to execute their customers orders, said the current two-day requirement “exposes firms to more risk in the time between execution and settlement, requiring higher capital levels.” He also advised that clearinghouse capital requirements be made more transparent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/robinhood-citadel-reject-conspiracies-they-halted-meme-trades-101613607367316.html
18-02-2021||World||Southeast Asia's support for US over China increased under Biden admin: Report||Southeast Asia's support for the United States has likely increased with the winning of Joe Biden in the presidential elections, according to an annual survey by Singaporean think tank ISEAS Yusof-Ishak Institute.According to the State of Southeast Asia survey released last week, 61.5 per cent of respondents prefer to choose America over Beijing in case they are forced to align amid the ongoing US-China rivalry."China as a choice dropped from 46.4 per cent in 2020 to 38.5 per cent in 2021, even despite intensive Covid-19 diplomacy seen in the region," the survey stated.It further said, "The region's support for Washington may have increased as a result of the prospects of the new Biden Administration".The survey was conducted from November 18, 2020 to January 10, 2021 covering regional affairs and geo-political developments, including but not limited to current issues such as the Covid-19 pandemic.Also read| UN chief Guterres urges global plan to reverse unfair vaccine accessA total of 1,032 respondents from ten Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) memberstates participated in the survey.While maximum people among the respondents preferred the US over China, about 76.3 per cent consider Beijing as the most influential power in Southeast Asia.Moreover, the survey found that out of 76.3 per cent people, 72.3 per cent worry about China's growing economic influence."China continues to be seen as the most influential political and strategic power (49.1 %), which also engenders considerable anxiety over Beijing's strategic clout in the region (88.6 %)," the survey said."Only time will tell if the region's renewed trust in the US is misplaced or not," the survey highlighted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/southeast-asia-s-support-for-us-over-china-increased-under-biden-admin-report-101613605228753.html
18-02-2021||World||Covid-19: About 2.6 million UK workers expect to be fired soon||About 2.6 million people in the UK, or 8% of workers, expect to lose their jobs in the next three months, according to a survey that suggests long-lasting damage to the economy from the coronavirus.The figures include people who have already been told that they will be made redundant, with young people and the lowest earners at greatest risk, the Resolution Foundation said Wednesday.The analysis found about 2 million people had been unemployed or on furlough for the past six months, a length of time that leaves them at higher risk. A separate British Chambers of Commerce survey found a quarter of the 1,100 businesses polled planning job cuts if government support programs end as planned.The findings puncture forecasts that the economy and most jobs will quickly recover once lockdown restrictions are lifted. Prime Minister Boris Johnson hopes a rapid vaccination program will allow shops, restaurants and bars to reopen by the summer, returning most of those unemployed to work.“While the UK’s economic prospects are finally looking up, job insecurity remains high, particularly among those who have spent long periods not working, or who are currently furloughed,” said Nye Committing, senior economist at the Resolution Foundation.Also read| Mentally ill 'ignored' in most European Covid vaccine plans: ExpertsBank of England policy maker Michael Saunders is set to speak on unemployment at an event hosted by the think tank on Thursday. His comments and the foundation’s report will help feed a debate about how aggressively Chancellor of Exchequer Rishi Sunak should support workers through the pandemic in his budget statement on March 3.The central bank is forecasting unemployment will rise from 5% currently to 7.8% by the third quarter, leaving the total number of jobless at 2.7 million.Resolution called on the Treasury to extend furlouging beyond the end of Covid restrictions. Earlier this week, the Institute for Fiscal Studies also recommended Sunak taper back the furlough program, which is current due to expire in April, giving companies an incentive to adjust to the new economic reality.The Resolution analysis counts almost 2 million workers as either unemployed or fully furloughed for the six months through January. Those would have remained out of work in September, October and parts of December when restrictions were loosen in much of the country. The foundation surveyed almost 6,000 people age 18 to 65.A full national lockdown came into force in January, forcing all restaurants, bars and non-essential shops to shut. About 4.5 million people were on furlough last month, half the level prevailing when restrictions were first imposed in March 2020, the report said.Those people who haven’t worked for longer risk losing skills and missing out on earnings growth, Resolution warned. For those on furlough for the past six months, 21% are bracing for a redundancy notice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-about-2-6-million-uk-workers-expect-to-be-fired-soon-101613606930740.html
18-02-2021||World||Big Tech’s critics work to strike back in White House||Congressional Democrats in the United States have begun discussions with the White House on ways to crack down on Big Tech including making social media companies accountable for the spread of disinformation on matters such as the US Capitol riot and addressing the abuse of market power to harm corporate rivals.The conversations, described by a lawmaker and congressional aides, have included the contentious topic of what to do with a measure called Section 230, part of a 1996 law called the Communications Decency Act, that shields social media platforms from lawsuits over much of the content posted by users.President Joe Biden as a candidate last year called for revoking Section 230, and his Republican predecessor Donald Trump unsuccessfully pressed Congress to repeal it.Many lawmakers in recent years have called for laws and regulations to rein in dominant tech companies such as Facebook, Twitter, Alphabet’s Google, Amazon and Apple. Democratic lawmakers also have expressed alarm over social media’s role in the lead-up to a pro-Trump mob’s January 6 attack on the US Capitol.The conversations between lawmakers and Biden aides represent the first sign that the White House has begun actively getting involved in considering how to take on Big Tech.Democratic Representative Tom Malinowski, a member of the House committee on homeland security, said he has begun conversations with the White House on how to hold large social media platforms accountable for amplifying radicalising content that triggers violence.Malinowski said he discussed legislation he sponsored last year that would hold these companies legally liable if they promote content, using algorithms designed to increase readership, that leads to violence. “This is a priority for me, and we have had preliminary conversations with the White House on a path forward,” Malinowski said.The legislation would amend but not revoke Section 230.Several congressional aides, speaking on condition of anonymity, said members of Biden’s team are listening to concerns by lawmakers on Big Tech, and participating in conversations about potential future action. The White House declined comment on these discussions.Democratic Representative David Cicilline, chairman of the House Judiciary Committee’s antitrust subcommittee, has raised with the White House the topic of more stringent antitrust enforcement against Big Tech, a source familiar with the matter said. A Cicilline spokesman declined comment.Based on Cicilline’s previous public comments, that could mean he actively pursues legislation based on recommendations from his subcommittee’s 400-page October report into the state of competition in the digital economy. Some antitrust experts said this also could mean broadening the US Justice Department’s October lawsuit that accused Google of misusing its market power to crush rivals.Addressing Section 230Aides to Democratic Senator Ron Wyden, a co-author of Section 230, have spoken to the White House about reforming the provision, a Wyden aide said. Those talks, the aide added, were aimed at a “deliberate approach to reforming the law” rather than repealing it. “We have conveyed Senator Wyden’s view that it would be tremendously harmful to repeal or change 230 without great care,” the aide said.Republican lawmakers including Trump ally Senator Josh Hawley have pushed for repealing Sec 230. Biden aides have previously said he is open to debate on how to reform Sec 230.Dumping it was so important to Trump that he vetoed $740 billion defence legislation in December because lawmakers had not heeded his demand for language repealing Section 230.Trump was angered after Twitter, in cracking down on election misinformation, labelled some of his posts as containing disputed or misleading content. Twitter in January banned Trump’s account.Wyden’s aides have circulated material among Senate Democrats to build consensus on changing not dumping Sec 230.Scott Wallsten, president of the Washington-based Technology Policy Institute think tank, said the conversations can inform Biden’s thinking on issues related to tech and at the very least get White House advisers thinking about what needs to be done. “I think they are trying to develop a more well-thought-out position,” Wallsten said of White House officials. “A lot of this will take time - nothing in terms of policy positions will be immediate.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/big-tech-s-critics-work-to-strike-back-in-white-house-101613606667226.html
18-02-2021||World||Iran's Khamenei demands 'action' from Biden to revive nuclear deal||Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei demanded "action, not words" from the United States if it wants to revive Iran's 2015 nuclear deal with world powers, challenging new President Joe Biden to take the first step toward a thaw.Iran has set a deadline of next week for Biden to begin reversing sanctions imposed by his predecessor Donald Trump, or it will take its biggest step yet to breach the deal - banning short-notice inspections by the U.N. nuclear watchdog."We have heard many nice words and promises which in practice have been broken and opposite actions have been taken," Khamenei said in a televised speech. "Words and promises are no good. This time (we want) only action from the other side, and we will also act."Biden aims to restore the pact under which Iran agreed to curbs on its disputed uranium enrichment programme in return for the lifting of sanctions, a major achievement of the Obama administration that Trump scrapped in 2018, calling the deal one sided in Iran's favour and reimposing a wide range of sanctions.Iran and the United States are at odds over who should make the first step to revive the accord. Iran says the United States must first lift Trump's sanctions while Washington says Tehran must first return to compliance with the deal, which it began violating after Trump launched his "maximum-pressure" campaign.Highlighting the urgency of a diplomatic solution to the standoff, German Chancellor Angela Merkel held a rare phone call with Iranian President Hassan Rouhani in which she urged Tehran to take steps ensuring its return to full compliance."It is now time for positive signals that create trust and increase the chances of a diplomatic solution," Merkel told Rouhani, according to a statement by the chancellor's spokesman.Iran has accelerated its breaches of the deal's restrictions in recent months, culminating in an announcement that it will end snap inspections by the International Atomic Energy Agency on Feb. 23.Such inspections, which can range anywhere beyond Iran's declared nuclear sites, are mandated under the IAEA's "Additional Protocol" that Iran agreed to honour under the deal. It signed up to the Protocol in 2003 but has not ratified it.MORE ADVANCED CENTRIFUGES ON TAPAn IAEA report on Wednesday said Iran had informed the IAEA of plans to install more of its advanced IR-2m centrifuges at its main underground enrichment plant at Natanz, in a further move apparently meant to pile pressure on Washington.The IAEA reported on Feb. 1 that Iran had brought a second cascade, or cluster, of IR-2m machines online at Natanz, and was installing two more. The 2015 deal says Iran can only enrich with far less efficient, first-generation IR-1 centrifuges.Iran recently began enriching uranium to 20% fissile purity at another site, Fordow, well above its previous level of 4.5% and the deal's 3.67% limit, though still well before the 90% that is weapons grade. Iran had enriched to 20% before the deal.Refining uranium to high levels of fissile purity is a potential pathway to nuclear bombs, though Iran has long said it its enrichment programme is for peaceful energy purposes only.European parties to the deal, which have called on Tehran not to halt snap inspections, will discuss the issue with the United States on Thursday, the French Foreign Ministry said.Rouhani played down the importance of the snap inspections, saying that ending them would not be a "significant step", as Iran would still comply with obligations under a so-called Safeguards Agreement with the IAEA."We will end the implementation of the Additional Protocol on Feb. 23 and what will be implemented will be based on the safeguards," Rouhani said at a televised cabinet meeting. "The Additional Protocol is a step beyond safeguards."Iran's envoy to the IAEA said on Wednesday that the agency's director general, Rafael Grossi, would visit Tehran on Saturday to discuss the country's plan to scale back cooperation with inspectors next week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/irans-khamenei-demands-action-from-biden-to-revive-nuclear-deal-101613606647885.html
18-02-2021||World||News Corp strikes global deal with Google after years of feuding over payments||News Corp struck a global news deal with Alphabet Inc’s Google, the Rupert Murdoch-controlled media company said on Wednesday, in one of the most extensive deals of its kind with big tech.The companies will develop a subscription platform, share advertising revenue through Google’s ad technology services, build out audio journalism and develop video journalism by YouTube. The deal comes after years of public feuding between Murdoch and Google, most recently in Australia, where Google has threatened to shut down its search engine to avoid “unworkable” content laws.It is a capstone for the 89-year-old media mogul, his son Lachlan and News Corp chief executive Robert Thomson to seek compensation for premium content from platforms. Murdoch previously secured payments from Apple Inc and Facebook Inc. The company declined to comment on financial details of the deal.“This has been a passionate cause for our company for well over a decade and I am gratified that the terms of trade are changing, not just for News Corp., but for every publisher,” CEO Thomson said.The agreement includes titles such as the Wall Street Journal, Barron’s and the New York Post, as well as about 30 local and regional News Corp newspapers in Australia.The News Corp deal comes after Google agreed to pay $76 million over three years to a group of 121 French news publishers to end a more than year-long copyright spat.In Australia, the country’s two largest free-to-air TV broadcasters have struck deals with Google collectively worth A$60 million a year, according to media reports. Google has also moved to secure deals with major publishers in the UK, Germany, Brazil and Argentina.Australia plans to pass laws that would allow it to appoint an arbitrator to set Google’s content fees if it cannot strike a deal privately.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/news-corp-strikes-global-deal-with-google-after-years-of-feuding-over-payments-101613605074181.html
18-02-2021||World||Mentally ill 'ignored' in most European Covid vaccine plans: Experts||Most European countries are ignoring mentally ill patients in their Covid-19 vaccine strategies despite such patients being highly vulnerable to contracting and dying from the disease, the leading mental health organisations warned on Wednesday.Out of 20 European countries surveyed for a study, only the Netherlands, Britain, Germany and Denmark were found to recognise severe mental illness as a high-risk medical condition and to have made specific provisions for vaccinating patients."These patients are completely disregarded in most vaccination plans, and this needs to change," said Livia De Picker, a professor at the University Psychiatric Hospital Campus Duffel in Belgium who co-led the research."Recent work shows that if you have a psychiatric disorder your risk of Covid infection rises by 65%, and severely mentally ill patients are between 1.5 and 2 times more likely to die."The findings were published in the Lancet Psychiatry journal late on Wednesday.Researchers who conducted the survey, together with Europe's main clinical and patient mental health organisations, called on the European Union to set region-wide standards for ensuring vulnerable mental health patients are prioritised for vaccines."Countries often look to what's happening elsewhere when setting vaccine priorities, and given how few countries prioritise mental health this risks perpetuating the neglect of mental health issues," said Marion Leboyer, a co-author of the study and a professor at University of Paris Est Créteil."This is a huge problem in Europe, and will continue unless action is taken."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/mentally-ill-ignored-in-most-european-covid-vaccine-plans-experts-101613606070151.html
18-02-2021||World||Elon Musk should come clean: Tesla’s emissions are rising||At a time when most major companies are working on plans to cut their carbon emissions, one of the darlings of green investing is working to increase its emissions footprint. You read that right. Thanks to its explosive expansion in China and a planned car plant in India, Tesla Inc. is in the process of not just increasing the total sum of its emissions — a pretty inevitable consequence of growth in our current carbonized world — but increasing the amount of pollution each of its vehicles generates, too.That’s because carmakers’ emissions aren’t just a product of the energy consumed in their factories — they’re a result of the pollution their products pump out while they’re being driven around. Thanks to all the gasoline and diesel that gets burned over the lifetime of the cars they sell, Volkswagen AG is responsible for more greenhouse gases than oil producer Total SE. Toyota Motor Corp.’s footprint exceeds that of BP Plc(1). Cummins Inc., which makes engines for commercial vehicles, has a higher total than Exxon Mobil Corp.Electric vehicles like those sold by Tesla are at a substantial advantage on that front. As my colleagues Liam Denning and Elaine He have written, they’re so much more efficient in converting produced energy into vehicle power that even in coal-heavy grids like China’s they’re more efficient than the gasoline equivalent.The differences from one country to another, however, are substantial.Take the lifecycle emissions calculator produced by Transport & Environment, a European non-profit dedicated to zero-carbon transport. A current-model large car with a battery produced and charged in an average European Union country emits about 88 grams of CO2 per kilometer, compared to 284 grams for a petrol-powered equivalent. In a country with a low-carbon grid like Sweden or France, that drops to 50 grams or less. If you use a proxy for a high-emissions grid like those in China or India, though, the picture changes substantially. A car with its battery made in China and charged up in Poland, where coal makes up about two-thirds of the electricity mix as it does in China and India, puts out 193 grams per kilometer.An essential element of the climate potential of electric vehicles is that they’re able to switch to lower-carbon fuels over the course of their lifetimes, as heavily-emitting power plants are disconnected from the grid and replaced with renewables. That process is likely to be quite rapid in developed countries — but in the two countries where Tesla hopes to catch the next leg of growth, China and India, it’s going to be unusually slow.As a result, the more cars Tesla sells in China and India, the more the intensity of its emissions — the emissions per vehicle sold, or per dollar of revenue — will rise.Perhaps this doesn’t matter. Any electric vehicle sold anywhere in the world is likely substituting for one powered by petrol or diesel. What the climate needs is for the market share of battery-powered vehicles to increase vis-a-vis conventional ones. If that means a lot get sold in markets where the immediate greenhouse benefits are lesser than they are in the U.S. and Western Europe, it’s still, on balance, a plus.Even so, this is the sort of information the climate-focused investors who’ve driven Tesla’s stock price so high ought to be given, so they can make their own decisions about how their shareholdings reflect their own emissions-reduction commitments.That’s not the case at Tesla. Not only does it not disclose the Scope 3 emissions (those dominated by emissions from the cars it sells), it doesn’t even lay out Scope 1 (from on-site power consumption) or Scope 2 (from purchased electricity). Nor does it disclose its electricity consumption, and its behavior indicates that, for all the rhetoric, this isn’t exactly a priority. Four years after production started at its Gigafactory battery plant in Nevada, the solar panels that were to cover its roof and help make it independent of Nevada’s gas-fired grid are still only gradually being added.Companies that make products to accelerate the transition to clean energy while providing scrappy documentation of their own carbon footprint may be better than the alternative — ones that provide exemplary historic disclosures but only the vaguest assurances about how their net-zero commitments are going to be met.Still, a clean-energy business with a market cap roughly equivalent to the S&P 500’s entire oil and gas sub-index should be capable of producing the information to help investors make their own minds up. Tesla’s slapdash emissions disclosure is a stain on an otherwise impressive record. A company that thrives on the power of the sun shouldn’t hide the footprint of its own operations in shadow.Although BP's disclosed emissions are lower than they probably should be, as we've written.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/elon-musk-should-come-clean-tesla-s-emissions-are-rising-101613605448505.html
18-02-2021||World||CDC gearing up to track 3 Covid-19 variants in US, says chief||Three worrisome Covid-19 variants are now circulating in the U.S. and the federal government needs significance resources to track their progress, according to the head of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.The variants, which emerged initially in the U.K., South Africa and Brazil, have all now been seen in the U.S., said Rochelle Walensky, the CDC chief, in a question and answer session hosted by the Journal of the American Medical Association.The agency has already warned that the highly contagious mutant strain that emerged in the U.K. could become dominant among Americans in the next two months. There are now 19 cases of the mutation first reported in South Africa in the U.S., she said, and two cases of a variant initially detected in Brazil in two states.One priority for fighting the variants in the U.S. is to put strong public health surveillance in place that can track changes in the virus, according to Walensky. The CDC is partnering with state laboratories to get 750 samples a week to sequence, she said, and has arranged with private and academic laboratories to contribute data as well.Additionally, the CDC is already working with makers of current vaccines to see if they can tweak their shots to work better against the variants, according to Walensky. “So that if down the line we need a bivalent vaccine or a booster vaccine, we’re ready to go,” she said.On Wednesday, a laboratory study showed that the current Pfizer Inc.-BioNTech SE vaccine stimulated roughly two-thirds lower levels of neutralizing antibodies against the variant that emerged from South Africa.What the lab data means in practice, though, remains to be seen.“It is unclear what effect a reduction in neutralization by approximately two-thirds would have” on protection from Covid-19 caused by the South Africa variant, the Pfizer study concluded. Pfizer and BioNTech said in a statement that there’s no real-world evidence that the South African variant can elude their shot.Resources NeededIn the JAMA session, Walensky indicated the CDC needs significant resources to keep on top of the issue. Each sample can cost $150 to sequence, she said, and there remains a question of who is going to be able to analyze all the samples quickly and efficiently.The first priority, though, is simply to have less virus circulating, she said. She estimated that about 20% of the population likely has natural immunity already from being infected, she said, and about 5% of Americans have had two doses of a vaccine so far.That’s a good start, according to Walensky. But “if the variants are more transmissible,” she said, “we have a higher bar to get to in terms of herd immunity,” the point when enough people have immunity to contain spread. Health officials have said the U.S. has to have 70% to 85% of its population immunized to reach that level.330 Million IndividualsCome Spring, Walensky’s concerned that many Americans will have had enough of masks and social distancing and start abandoning still-needed mitigation strategies. “How this goes depends on 330 million individuals,” she said.Walensky, who most recently was chief of infectious diseases at Massachusetts General Hospital, has treated patients on the front lines of the Covid-19 outbreak.She’s inherited an agency whose reputation has been tarnished. Early in the pandemic, the Trump administration halted the CDC’s briefings and the agency faded from view. By the fall, mounting evidence showed how administration officials interfered in the agency’s work, slowing down publication of guidance and stalling access to $1 billion in pandemic aid Congress intended for the agency.Since moving into the CDC’s top spot, she has been highly visible in public briefing and events like the JAMA Q&A session.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/cdc-gearing-up-to-track-3-covid-19-variants-in-us-says-chief-101613605498344.html
18-02-2021||World||Harassment cases revive worries of racism at Boston College||Students are demanding a stronger response from Boston College after two recent cases in which white students were accused of harassing Black and Hispanic students in a campus dorm.The incidents, which took place three days apart, have revived longstanding concerns about racism on a campus where most students are white and just 4% are Black. Some students say the recent cases are part of a pattern of bias that seems to be tolerated at the Jesuit Catholic school.“We have been dealing with this since our freshman year,” said senior Kathryn Destin, 20, who is Black and a member of a campus anti-racist group called FACES. “I’ve sort of lost that sense of safety.”Both recent incidents took place in a stretch of dorm hallway that mostly houses Black and Hispanic women. Known as the Multicultural Learning Experience, it’s part of program intended to foster diversity on campus. Men in the program are housed in a different area of the dorm.Residents of the hall say they were awakened by an eruption of noise Jan. 30 as rows of trashcans lining the hall were upended and tossed around. Litter was left scattered everywhere. Farther down the hallway, past the end of the multicultural section, trash bins were left untouched.Three days later, students reported that two white, male students walked down the hall singing about “colored girls.” A staff member was notified and found the two men, but they denied using the language, officials said.The hall’s residents say it follows other cases in which they have been threatened or harassed by white students this school year.College officials said they’re responding to “several incidents” of alleged student misconduct in the hall last month. They have identified and disciplined two students found responsible for the Jan. 30 vandalism, said Jack Dunn, a college spokesperson. Officials declined to disclose the discipline, citing privacy laws.The two other students accused of singing racist lyrics are going through a school discipline process this week, Dunn said.“BC has zero tolerance for actions that make any student feel unwelcome, and will hold students accountable for their actions,” he said in a statement.In a message to students, Michael Lochhead, the school’s executive vice president said he will review campus diversity efforts “so that they can be improved and have greater impact.” He said officials will develop new campus events to help students understand the harms of bias.“I recognize that the university has more work to do so that all BC students feel welcomed and valued,” he said.To many Black students, however, the message fell flat. They say the college’s response has failed to connect the latest cases to a string of racist incidents on campus in recent years. And they say nothing is being done to show that students will face stiff penalties for carrying out racist acts.“Boston College does not see racism as an emergency. It does not see it as a threat to its student body,” Destin said. “The priority is protecting Boston College and the image it presents.” In 2017, two Black Lives Matters signs were defaced in a dorm, with the word “don’t” added so they read “Black Lives don’t Matter.” A year later, a student was barred from campus after officials said he scrawled racist graffiti in a residence hall.Ellana Lawrence, a leader of the Black Student Forum campus group, said the administration has failed to acknowledge that racism is a problem at Boston College. Without stronger action — and transparency around discipline — it sends the message that racism is tolerated, she said. At the same time, it leaves Black students with “a feeling of not being welcomed, of being an outsider or excluded," she said.Some students see a stark contrast between the school's response to the incidents and its attempts to crack down on violations of Covid-19 restrictions. Amid a recent uptick in infections, the college sent a tough message threatening punishment if students violated rules against gatherings. Students say the harassment cases drew a delayed and much milder response.Some residents of the multicultural floor are demanding changes including a new process to report racial violence to the college. Other students want the college to divulge sanctions against students who are found to have committed acts of racism. Some are calling for more training and other efforts to fight racism among students and faculty.Among some seniors, the latest cases have contributed to a feeling of exhaustion and defeat. Among some younger students, there’s a sense of loss. Typhania Zanou, a sophomore, said her feeling of security is gone, replaced by the stress of wondering if she’ll be targeted next.“It made me realize this campus is not a safe place for me or anyone who looks like me,” she said. “I’m still kind of grappling with that.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/harassment-cases-revive-worries-of-racism-at-boston-college-101613605048227.html
18-02-2021||World||UN chief Guterres urges global plan to reverse unfair vaccine access||UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres sharply criticized the “wildly uneven and unfair” distribution of Covid-19 vaccines on Wednesday, saying 10 countries have administered 75 percent of all vaccinations and demanding a global effort to get all people in every nation vaccinated as soon as possible.The UN chief told a high-level meeting of the UN Security Council that 130 countries have not received a single dose of vaccine and declared that “at this critical moment, vaccine equity is the biggest moral test before the global community.”Guterres called for an urgent Global Vaccination Plan to bring together those with the power to ensure equitable vaccine distribution -- scientists, vaccine producers and those who can fund the effort.And he called on the world’s major economic powers in the Group of 20 to establish an emergency task force to establish a plan and coordinate its implementation and financing. He said the task force should have the capacity “to mobilize the pharmaceutical companies and key industry and logistics actors.”Guterres said Friday’s meeting of the Group of Seven major industrialized nations -- the United States, Germany, Japan, Britain, France, Canada and Italy -- “can create the momentum to mobilize the necessary financial resources.”Thirteen ministers addressed the virtual council meeting organized by Britain on improving access to Covid-19 vaccinations, including in conflict areas.The coronavirus has infected more than 109 million people and killed at least 2.4 million of them. As manufacturers struggle to ramp up production of vaccines, many countries complain of being left out and even rich nations are facing shortages and domestic complaints.The World Health Organization’s COVAX program, an ambitious project to buy and deliver coronavirus vaccines for the world’s poorest people, has already missed its own goal of beginning coronavirus vaccinations in poor countries at the same time that shots were rolled out in rich countries. WHO says COVAX needs $5 billion in 2021.US Secretary of State Antony Blinken told the council the Biden administration “will work with our partners across the globe to expand manufacturing and distribution capacity and to increase access, including to marginalized populations.”President Joe Biden has rejoined the WHO and Blinken announced that by the end of February the United States will pay over $200 million in previously assessed and current obligations to the U.N. agency, which Washington will seek to reform.America's top diplomat said the U.S. also plans to provide “significant financial support” to COVAX through the GAVI vaccine alliance, and will work to strengthen other multilateral initiatives involved in the global Covid-19 response. He gave no details.China’s Foreign Minister Wang Yi criticized the growing “immunity divide” and called on the world to “come together to reject `vaccine nationalism,’ promote fair and equitable distribution of vaccines, and, in particular, make them accessible and affordable for developing countries, including those in conflict.”At WHO’s request, he said, China will contribute 10 million doses of vaccines to COVAX “preliminarily.”China has donated vaccines to 53 developing countries including Somalia, Iraq, South Sudan and Palestine, which is a U.N. observer state. It has also exported vaccines to 22 countries, he said, adding that Beijing has launched research and development cooperation on Covid-19 with more than 10 countries.India’s External Affairs Minister Subrahmanyam Jaishankar also called for a halt to “vaccine nationalism” and encouragement for internationalism. “Hoarding superfluous doses will defeat our efforts towards attaining collective health security,” he warned.Jaishankar said India has been at the forefront of the global fight against the Covid-19 pandemic, initially providing medicine, ventilators and personal protective equipment and now directly sending made-in-India vaccines to 25 nations across the world, with 49 additional countries from Europe and Latin America to Africa, Southeast Asia and the Pacific Islands slated to receive vaccines “in the coming days.”Two vaccines, including one developed in India, have been granted emergency authorization, the minister said, and as many as 30 vaccine candidates are in various stages of development.Jaishankar announced “a gift of 200,000 doses” of vaccine for about 90,000 U.N. peacekeepers serving in a dozen hotspots around the world.Mexican Foreign Minister Marcelo Ebrard, whose country is currently president of the Community of Latin American and Caribbean States, called for speeding up COVAX and stopping the ”undue hoarding” and “monopolization of vaccines.”He urged that priority be given to countries with limited resources, saying “it’s been pointed out that these countries won’t have generalized access until the middle of 2023 if current trends persist.”“What we are seeing is a huge gap,” Ebrard said. “In fact, I don’t think we’ve ever seen such a huge division affecting so many in such a short space of time. That is why it’s important to reverse this."He urged the international community not to establish mechanisms that could prevent the speedy delivery of vaccines but instead to strengthen supply chains “that will promote and guarantee universal access.”British Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab, whose country holds the Security Council presidency this month and presided at the virtual meeting, urged the U.N.’s most powerful body to adopt a resolution calling for local cease-fires in conflict zones to allow the delivery of Covid-19 vaccines.“Cease-fires have been used to vaccinate the most vulnerable communities in the past,” he said. “There’s no reason why we can’t... We have seen it in the past to deliver polio vaccines to children in Afghanistan, just to take one example.”Britain says more than 160 million people are at risk of being excluded from coronavirus vaccinations because they live in countries engulfed in conflict and instability, including Yemen, Syria, South Sudan, Somalia and Ethiopia.Britain’s U.N. ambassador, Barbara Woodward said: “Humanitarian organizations and U.N. agencies need the full backing of the council to be able to carry out the job we are asking them to do.”Britain has drafted a Security Council resolution that the U.K. hopes will be adopted in the coming weeks, she said.Russia’s U.N. ambassador, Vassily Nebenzia, objected to the council focusing on equitable access to vaccines, saying this went beyond its mandate to preserve international peace and security.Indicating Moscow was not interested in a new resolution. he said Russia is ready to discuss progress on implementing the only resolution the Security Council has adopted on the pandemic. After three months of difficult negotiations, the council last July 1 endorsed fhe secretary-general’s call for cease-fires in major global conflicts to tackle Covid-19.Britain’s Raab argued that the council needs to follow up and call for cease-fires “specifically to enable Covid vaccines to be carried out in those areas so badly affected by conflict.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/un-chief-guterres-urges-global-plan-to-reverse-unfair-vaccine-access-101613604585102.html
18-02-2021||World||US still unraveling 'sophisticated' hack of 9 government agencies||US authorities are still working to unravel the full scope of the likely Russian hack that gave the “sophisticated” actor behind the breach complete access to files and email from at least nine government agencies and about 100 private companies, the top White House cybersecurity official said Wednesday.Anne Neuberger, the newly appointed deputy national security adviser for cyber and emerging technology, also warned that the danger has not passed because the hackers breached networks of technology companies whose products could be used to launch additional intrusions.A task force is investigating the extent of the damage from the breach, assessing potential responses and trying to confirm the identity of whoever was behind it — a process Neuberger warned will take more time.“This is a sophisticated actor who did their best to hide their tracks,” she told reporters at the White House. "We believe it took them months to plan and execute this compromise. It will take us some time to uncover this layer by layer.”US authorities have said the breach, disclosed in December, appeared to be the work of Russian hackers. Neuberger, a former senior official at the National Security Agency who was appointed by President Joe Biden this month, went no further.“An advanced, persistent threat actor likely of Russian origin was responsible," she said, without providing any further details and sounding a cryptic note on potential responses.“This isn’t the only case of malicious cyber activity of likely Russian origin, either for us or for our allies and partners,” Neuberger added. “So, as we contemplate future response options, we are considering holistically what those activities were.”The Russian government has denied involvement.Private security company FireEye was first to identify the breach, revealing that hackers hijacked widely used network software from SolarWinds Inc. to install malicious software through a what appeared to be a routine security update.Intelligence agencies did not detect the breach because they largely have "no visibility into private-sector networks," and it was launched within the U.S., Neuberger said. The Biden administration supports changes to “culture and authorities” that prevented the hack from being detected on the federal civilian systems, she added.The hack, Neuberger said, highlights the need to modernize the nation's IT infrastructure and its cyber defenses, issues that will be addressed in an upcoming executive order from Biden aimed at addressing security and technology gaps highlighted by the breach.Several agencies have acknowledged that they were breached, including the Treasury Department and Justice Department, but the full list has not been publicly released. Once inside, the hackers had full access to the victims' data.“The techniques that were used lead us to believe that any files or emails on a compromised network were likely to be compromised," Neuberger said.Some members of Congress have criticized the response based on what they have been told so far, all in private. “The briefings we have received convey a disjointed and disorganized response to confronting the breach,” Sen. Mark Warner, a Democrat from Virginia, and Sen. Marco Rubio, Republican from Florida, said in a recent letter to the White House.Neuberger said she intended to return to the Capitol to brief lawmakers in the coming days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-still-unraveling-sophisticated-hack-of-9-government-agencies-101613599855112.html
18-02-2021||World||New York lawmaker says Cuomo threatened him; governor says he’s liar||New York Assemblyman Ron Kim said he was threatened by Governor Andrew Cuomo after criticizing his administration’s handling of nursing-home deaths during the pandemic. A spokesman for Cuomo called the lawmaker a liar.Kim said Cuomo called him last Thursday, yelled at him for 10 minutes and threatened to “destroy” him, the New York Times and CNN reported. An aide in Kim’s office confirmed the lawmaker’s account and said he wasn’t immediately available to comment. The conversation with Cuomo took place after Kim told the New York Post that an admission by Cuomo’s top aide that the administration withheld nursing-home data from lawmakers made it appear as if the governor were trying to dodge incriminating evidence.”Mr. Kim is lying about his conversation with Governor Cuomo Thursday night,” said Cuomo spokesman Rich Azzopardi, who said he was in the same room as the governor when the phone call occurred. “At no time did anyone threaten to ‘destroy’ anyone with their ‘wrath’ nor engage in a ‘coverup.’ That’s beyond the pale and is unfortunately part of a years-long pattern of lies by Mr. Kim against this administration.”Kim, a Democrat like Cuomo, represents Flushing, a Queens neighborhood hit hard by the virus. The lawmaker has said he believes his own uncle died from Covid in a nursing home last year. Kim has accused Cuomo of covering up the extent of pandemic-related nursing-home deaths, and has joined more than a dozen lawmakers calling for an investigation into his administration and a rollback of Cuomo’s emergency powers.Earlier Wednesday, Cuomo denied his administration did anything illegal or unethical with regard to Covid in nursing homes. He said his administration takes responsibility for failing to better communicate with state lawmakers and the general public. “My administration created the void, and that I feel bad about,” he said in a virus briefing. “Not illegal, not unethical, but just failed people in that moment.”Cuomo said Kim’s accusations of a coverup were “100% wrong and he knows it.”Kim released a general statement on Wednesday: “The governor can smear me all he wants in an effort to distract us from his fatally incompetent management. But these facts are not going away because they are the facts — unacceptable facts that hold him accountable.”Kim has called on the governor to apologize to family members for a Health Department order that urged nursing homes to admit recovering coronavirus patients discharged from hospitals.That order may have put residents at risk, state Attorney General Letitia James, another Democrat, said in a report last month. Her report also said Cuomo’s administration may have under-counted coronavirus-related deaths in New York nursing homes by as much as 50%.Before James released her report, the Health Department reported 8,700 nursing-home deaths due to Covid-19. In the last month the Cuomo administration has almost doubled the count to more than 15,000 after adding already reported deaths that occurred in hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/new-york-lawmaker-says-cuomo-threatened-him-governor-says-he-s-liar-101613599868986.html
18-02-2021||World||South Carolina House passes bill banning most abortions||The South Carolina House on Wednesday overwhelmingly passed a bill banning nearly all abortions, following the lead of other states with similar measures that would go into effect if the U.S. Supreme Court were to overturn Roe v. Wade.The bill faces a final procedural vote in the House on Thursday that is unlikely to change the outcome and will then be sent to the governor for his signature. Republican Gov. Henry McMaster has promised to sign the measure as soon as possible.The Senate approved the measure on Jan. 28, after years of failed attempts. Republicans gained three seats in the 2020 elections and the newly energized 30-16 Republican majority made the proposal Senate Bill No. 1.“This is the greatest pro-life bill this state has ever passed,” said Republican Rep. David Hiott of Pickens.The “ South Carolina Fetal Heartbeat and Protection from Abortion Act " requires doctors to perform ultrasounds to check for a heartbeat in the fetus. If one is detected, the abortion can only be performed if the pregnancy was caused by rape or incest or the mother’s life is in danger.The bill would not punish a pregnant woman for getting an illegal abortion, but the person who performed the abortion could be charged with a felony, sentenced up to two years and fined $10,000 if found guilty.About a dozen other states have passed similar or more restrictive abortion bans, which could take effect if the U.S. Supreme Court — with three justices appointed by Republican former President Donald Trump — were to overturn Roe v. Wade, the 1973 court decision supporting abortion rights.Groups that oppose the bill will likely sue, keeping the law from going into effect. All of the bans passed by other states are tied up in court challenges.While Wednesday's House approval was nearly a foregone conclusion, the road there was rocky. One Republican lawmaker who wanted a stricter law saying fetuses have the rights of all citizens at conception threw up his papers and stormed out in a ruckus that angered the speaker. Most Democrats walked out of the chamber to protest the bill. They had to come back when a member of the party who left and returned made the rare request to have the clerk read the whole bill out loud before the vote, prompting Republicans to require that all lawmakers be present.During the walkout, Republicans wiped out more than 100 proposed amendments. After holding a news conference to speak against the bill, several Democrats returned to express their opposition to the measure, which has come up for debate in the legislature numerous times over the past decade. Lawmakers approved the bill by a vote of 79-35. Two Democrats voted for the ban, and two Republicans voted against it.“You love the fetus in the womb. But when it is born, it’s a different reaction,” said Rep. Gilda Cobb-Hunter of Orangeburg, the House’s longest serving member at 29 years. Cobb-Hunter noted how the General Assembly made the abortion bill a priority over education, several COVID-19 bills and almost everything else, and how some supporters of the ban balked at any requirement earlier this year that they wear masks while on the House floor and in committee meetings.“'The government not having any business mandating face masks' sounds to me real close to ‘the government not having any business telling a woman what to do with her body,’” Cobb-Hunter said.Numerous Republican lawmakers spoke in favor of the bill and many cheered after the vote. Supporters of the ban stood outside the House chambers applauding and hugging the lawmakers that pushed the hardest for the measure.Rep. Melissa Lackey Oremus said she was 16 and in the top of her class when she had “a little fun one night — too much” and got pregnant.The Republican from Aiken and now 42-year-old mother of three said she was unsure what to do until she had an ultrasound wand rubbed over her belly and heard her child's heartbeat.“That sound to me was, I had a human being inside of me,” Oremus said. “That sound, it was the most beautiful sound to me. How could I have a choice to kill that sound, to make it go away?”The debate was briefly stopped by a Republican when Rep. Jonathon Hill, apparently angry his amendments to completely ban all abortions weren't being considered, stormed to the House's center aisle, threw his amendments up in the air and walked out.Another representative picked up the papers.“If it had been me, it would have stayed on the floor and I would have not allowed him back in the chamber until he picked it up," House Speaker Jay Lucas said. “We are a legislative body. We have debate. We are not children. We don't throw tantrums when we lose.”Hill wasn't immediately punished for his behavior.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/south-carolina-house-passes-bill-banning-most-abortions-101613599875034.html
18-02-2021||World||Israel's PM Netanyahu says he spoke to Biden about Covid, Iran||US President Joe Biden and Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu spoke by phone on Wednesday after a month of silence that raised concerns in Israel about a frostier relationship between the two allies.Netanyahu's office was first to announce the conversation Wednesday night, releasing a photo of a smiling prime minister holding a phone to his ear. The statement said the conversation was “warm and friendly” and lasted about an hour.“We had a good conversation,” Biden said during a brief exchange with reporters before the start of an Oval Office meeting with labor leaders.The office of the prime minister, who is facing a tough fight ahead of the March 23 election, was more descriptive.“The two leaders noted their longstanding personal connection and said that they would work together to continue strengthening the steadfast alliance between Israel and the U.S.,” said the statement. Topics discussed, it added, included “the Iranian threat” of developing nuclear weapons, their efforts to fight the coronavirus pandemic and the desire to expand Israel's accords with Arab nations.Israelis had been complaining since Biden's inauguration in January that the new president had not reached out to Netanyahu, concerned that the silence could forecast a chillier relationship between the two close allies after former President Donald Trump’s warm embrace.Netanyahu has long boasted of his close relations with American presidents and other world leaders. He’s hoping to dissuade Biden from rejoining the Iranian nuclear deal, to which Israel is strongly opposed.Biden had been holding off calling Netanyahu, in part, because he first wanted to speak with key European allies as he weighs his next steps with Iran, according to a senior administration official who spoke on condition of anonymity.Many Israelis fear that Biden, who served as President Barack Obama’s vice president, will revive his approach to the region, both by returning to the Iran deal and by pressing Israel to make concessions to the Palestinians.During last year's presidential campaign, Biden criticized Trump’s decision to pull out of the 2015 Iran accord. But the new president publicly has insisted that Iran adhere to its commitment under the 2015 pact before his administration engage Tehran on potentially lifting Trump-imposed sanctions.The United States is Israel’s closest ally, providing about $3.8 billion in annual military aid and shielding it from censure in international forums over its policies toward the Palestinians.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/israels-pm-netanyahu-says-he-spoke-to-biden-about-covid-iran-101613599884080.html
18-02-2021||World||US vice president Harris to host women’s event to boost support for virus relief||Vice President Kamala Harris plans to meet with a group of female Democratic lawmakers and advocacy groups on Thursday as part of the White House’s push to build support for its $1.9 trillion virus relief bill.The virtual meeting will focus on the economic struggles women have faced as a result of the pandemic and how President Joe Biden’s proposal would address them, according to Harris’s office.Senate Health, Education Labor and Pensions Committee Chairwoman Patty Murray and House Appropriations Committee Chairwoman Rosa DeLauro will participate, as will Senator Catherine Cortez Masto and Representative Barbara Lee.The meeting comes as the White House redoubles efforts to pass its stimulus following the impeachment trial of former President Donald Trump, which had largely consumed the Senate’s agenda. Harris has helped Biden sell the plan to lawmakers and the public, and has also been vocal about ensuring that relief targets women and minorities in particular.Republicans have objected to the size and scope of Biden’s proposal, offering a $600 billion plan instead. But the president has signaled he is not interested in a smaller package and indicated he’s willing to pass the bill with only Democratic votes using a procedure called budget reconciliation.The groups participating in the Thursday meeting with Harris are mostly left-leaning. Service Employees International Union President Mary Kay Henry and Tina Tchen, CEO of the anti-sexual harassment group Time’s UP, are expected to join, as are nine other leaders of organizations representing Black women, Native Americans, mothers and female business owners.Harris plans to highlight how the pandemic has taken a disproportionate toll on women. Nearly 2.5 million women have dropped out of the workforce since it began, her office said. Job loss, closures of small businesses and lack of childcare options have hit women particularly hard.The vice president’s office says several provisions of Biden’s plan would aid women, including $3,000 direct payments to parents for each child, a $40 billion investment in childcare and $15 billion in grants to small businesses.Harris’s efforts to promote the rescue package through television interviews and public meetings have boosted her profile in the early days of Biden’s presidency.But her efforts haven’t always been smooth. An interview with a West Virginia news station was criticized by Senator Joe Manchin, a moderate Democrat who has yet to endorse Biden’s stimulus. Manchin said he had not been informed about the interview ahead of time; the White House later said it was in touch with the West Virginia senator and called him a “key partner” on its agenda.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-vice-president-harris-to-host-women-s-event-to-boost-support-for-virus-relief-101613599983066.html
18-02-2021||World||Facebook cuts off news in Australia in fight over payments||Facebook Inc. has started restricting the sharing of news on its service in Australia, defying a controversial proposed law that would require technology companies to pay publishers when their articles are posted by users.The ban constitutes the strongest action yet in response to the proposed legislation, which would force companies like Facebook and Alphabet Inc.’s Google to pay publishers for the value their articles generate on the digital platforms. News outlets have demanded such payments, arguing they should be fairly compensated for their journalism as Google and Facebook capture much of the advertising market.Facebook’s decision blocks those in Australia from sharing news stories and stops users globally from sharing articles from Australian publishers. The action threatens to cut off one of the most widely used ways for people to access news and information online.While they oppose the measure in Australia, Google and Facebook have struck separate, voluntary agreements to pay publishers. Earlier Wednesday, Rupert Murdoch’s News Corp., a supporter of the Australian proposal, said it had reached a deal with Google for the search giant to pay for journalism from the Wall Street Journal and its other newspapers.Last summer, Facebook had threatened to block people and publishers in Australia from sharing news on its main social network and Instagram if the legislation were to become law. Google has similarly threatened to shut its search engine in Australia.Google ContrastOn Wednesday, Facebook tried to draw a contrast with Google, arguing that publishers don’t voluntarily provide articles that appear in Google search results, while they willingly post news on Facebook, which helps them reach a larger audience.The Australian proposal penalizes Facebook “for content it didn’t take or ask for,” William Easton, managing director for Facebook in Australia and New Zealand, said Wednesday in a blog post.“The proposed law fundamentally misunderstands the relationship between our platform and publishers who use it to share news content,” he said. “It has left us facing a stark choice: Attempt to comply with a law that ignores the realities of this relationship, or stop allowing news content on our services in Australia. With a heavy heart, we are choosing the latter.”Publishers already reap tangible benefits from links on Facebook, Easton said. Last year, Facebook generated about 5.1 billion free referrals to Australian publishers, worth an estimated A$407 million ($315 million), he said, without providing a basis for the calculation.What Is News?Facebook said it will rely on machine learning software to determine what links are considered news. The software looks for “news-specific signals like timeliness, presence of bylines, and attributed sources” in an effort to predict whether something should be classified as news, according to a company help page.It’s possible non-news stories, like opinion pieces, will also be restricted if they come from predominantly news-focused organizations, a spokeswoman confirmed.Just 4% of the posts that people see in Facebook’s News Feed are news, the company said. Facebook previously cut back on articles in user feeds in early 2018 as a way to increase the number of posts that people see from friends and family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/facebook-cuts-off-news-in-australia-in-fight-over-payments-101613599992008.html
18-02-2021||World||US lawmakers to face off with GameStop saga's key players||The GameStop saga has been portrayed as a victory of the little guy over Wall Street giants but not everyone agrees, including some lawmakers in Washington.GameStop shares soared 1,600% in January before falling back to earth. Entangled in the drama are massive short-selling hedge funds, a social media message board and ordinary investors wanting in on the hottest new trade, among others. The House Financial Services Committee is ready to dig into the confounding episode at a hearing on Thursday.The players include a swaggering 34-year-old YouTube personality and GameStop evangelist; one of the richest and most prominent investment tycoons; and the CEO of the online platform Robinhood that hosted a tsunami of speculative GameStop trading but faced intense criticism for restricting trading at the height of the frenzy.The CEO, Vlad Tenev, is denying speculation from some lawmakers that Robinhood acted to favor its big Wall Street clients when it blocked customers on Jan. 28 from buying shares of GameStop and a dozen other companies. The restrictions lasted in some form for days.The accusation is that Robinhood changed the rules of the road midway through to favor big clients that stood to lose money if GameStop shares kept rising.“Any allegation that Robinhood acted to help hedge funds or other special interests to the detriment of our customers is absolutely false and market-distorting rhetoric," Tenev says in written testimony prepared for the hearing. “Our customers are our top priority."Tenev reiterated Robinhood's position that it imposed the trading restrictions solely to meet capital requirements set by regulators.As they question Tenev and other witnesses, Lawmakers and regulators will look for answers about what the GameStop trading frenzy says about the fault lines and potential conflicts in the structure of the market that can hurt unsophisticated investors.The online GameStop booster, Keith Gill, who goes by Roaring Kitty, plans to tell the lawmakers that he reaped a profit on his investment because he did his homework on the company, and not because he touted the stock to “unwitting investors,” according to prepared remarks.Expected to testify remotely at Thursday's hearing are:—Tenev, an early-thirties entrepreneur who started Robinhood in 2013 with a fellow Stanford University math student. Claiming 13 million users, the mobile app’s popularity has grown, fueled by a simplified trading format and first-stock-for-free inducement appealing to millennials. The Silicon Valley company is said to be looking to go public this year; the GameStop debacle has brought unwanted attention.With its mission “to democratize finance for all,” Robinhood offers commission-free trading. Critics say its users pay in another, more hidden way, because Robinhood provides the data on stocks they’re buying and selling to big Wall Street firms. And the firms pay companies like Robinhood to send their customers’ orders to them for execution.Tenev is certain to be asked whether Robinhood’s abrupt freeze on individual users buying GameStop shares was done at the behest of Wall Street titan Citadel — its biggest trading partner — or other major firms.Citadel says it “has not instructed or otherwise caused any brokerage firm to stop, suspend or limit trading or otherwise refuse to do business.”—Ken Griffin, Citadel CEO. One of the wealthiest hedge fund managers in an industry full of multi-billionaires that commands trillions in assets and is known by its penchant for risk and prolific use of short-selling, in which the funds essentially bet a stock’s price will drop. Griffin is politically plugged in and has been a heavy donor to Republican politicians.Chicago-based Citadel is one of the biggest hedge funds, and its separate securities-dealing business handles an estimated 25% of all U.S. stock trading. Citadel stepped in with a few other funds to rescue Melvin Capital Management after it sustained billions in losses on its GameStop bets. Gabriel Plotkin, Melvin Capital's founder and chief investment officer, will also appear at the hearing.—Gill, AKA Roaring Kitty. The most visible protagonist and GameStop booster on the WallStreetBets subreddit with his R-rated energy, bright red headband and colorful T-shirts. The 34-year-old operating out of the basement of his home in a Boston suburb drew legions of investors into his orbit as they joined his livestream chats on YouTube.Now regulators in Massachusetts are investigating Gill for potential conflict of interest because of his work as a licensed securities broker and “financial wellness educational director” for insurance company MassMutual while he was egging on GameStop investors online. Gill has been ordered to testify later this month in the inquiry; as of Wednesday he hasn't responded to the state regulators. He's also the target of a separate lawsuit that claims his misrepresented himself as an amateur investor while convincing other investors to buy shares of GameStop.—Steve Huffman, Reddit CEO and co-founder. A major force in social media, Reddit claims some 430 million “Redditors” worldwide. Its WallStreetBets forum is at the center of the GameStop drama.As the frenzy escalated, the acting head of the Securities and Exchange Commission said the agency is examining the trading restrictions on GameStop and other stocks by Robinhood and other online brokerages as well as possible stock manipulation, and the role that short-selling may have played in GameStop’s extreme price swings.The small investors were seen as the winners after they mobilized against Wall Street heavies on the subreddit. Their buying swelled the share prices of GameStop and other beaten-down companies beyond anyone’s imagination. Not coincidentally, it inflicted billions in losses on the hedge funds that cater to the uber-rich and had placed bets that the stocks would drop.The populist traders’ strategy was of course risky. GameStop stock plunged 60%, to $90 on Feb. 2, wiping out hundreds of thousands of dollars in a few hours. The stock dropped another 42%, to $53, on Feb. 4 and currently trades around $46.A raft of lawsuits were filed against Robinhood in federal court by platform users who suffered losses when they were frozen out of GameStop trading. There are indications that contrary to the populist fable, it was the Wall Street titans that mostly benefited in the end from the GameStop rollercoaster.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-lawmakers-to-face-off-with-gamestop-saga-s-key-players-101613599998071.html
18-02-2021||World||Maduro lodges new allegation of US spying on Venezuela firm||Venezuela’s president said Wednesday he is open to dialogue with the new U.S. administration on calming tensions between the two governments and easing his nation's economic crisis, even while doubling down with fresh accusations that six American oil executives jailed in Caracas spied for the CIA.Nicolás Maduro, who spoke at a news conference with international reporters at the Miraflores presidential palace, refused to say whether he has had any direct contacts with the Biden administration, which took office nearly a month ago.Maduro repeated a phrase he commonly uses, saying he is ready for a dialogue with the U.S. at any moment. The two nations broke ties two years ago when the Trump administration and dozens of other governments backed Maduro's leading adversary, Juan Guaidó, arguing that Maduro's presidency was illegitimate because his reelection was fraudulent.The Trump administration heavily sanctioned Maduro and the Venezuelan oil sector as well as brought an indictment levying narcotrafficking charges against Maduro that carry a $15 million reward for his arrest.Maduro is leading a campaign to resurrect his once-wealthy oil nation's decimated economy after more than two decades of socialist rule. Maduro seek relief from sanctions, blaming them for Venezuela's problems.“Is there room for dialogue?” Maduro said in response to a question from The Associated Press on whether he has started conversation with of U.S. President Joe Biden's administration. “There's always room for dialogue.”But the new accusations of spying against Citgo, a U.S.-based subsidiary of Venezuela's state oil company, will likely complicate efforts to win sympathy in Washington, where officials in Biden’s State Department have already branded him a “dictator” who should not be engaged with in direct talks.While Venezuela's economic and political crisis deepened, the six Citgo executives were lured back to Caracas from the firm's headquarters in Houston and jailed on financial charges. Their trial ended in November, with a judge finding them all guilty and sentencing them to prison.Maduro's allegation of spying came in response to a question from AP on whether he could consider releasing U.S. citizens jailed in the U.S., including the so-called Citgo 6, as a goodwill gesture to the new U.S. administration.He said that while diplomatic efforts are always available, he wouldn't get involved with criminal cases that had been tried in a Venezuelan court.“I'm not a judge or prosecutor, and I shouldn't get involved in this subject,” Maduro said, but he then accused the CIA of infiltrating Citgo. “They started to work as agents of the Central Intelligence Agency. ... This is the truth."Maduro did not offer proof of his claim, which drew immediate pushback from Venezuelan attorney Jesus Loreto, who represented one of the six Citgo executives.Loreto told AP that Venezuelan state officials presented no allegations of spying at trial of the six men.“They were never tried for any spying related offenses. They were not convicted on any charge in any way related to spying," Loreto said. "That’s the very first time I heard about spying, regarding my client.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/maduro-lodges-new-allegation-of-us-spying-on-venezuela-firm-101613600006098.html
18-02-2021||World||US govt seizes over 10 million phony N95 masks in Covid-19 probe||Federal agents have seized more than 10 million fake 3M brand N95 masks in recent weeks, the result of an ongoing investigation into counterfeits sold in at least five states to hospitals, medical facilities and government agencies.The most recent seizures occurred Wednesday when Homeland Security agents intercepted hundreds of thousands of counterfeit 3M masks in an East Coast warehouse that were set to be distributed, officials said.Investigators also notified about 6,000 potential victims in at least 12 states including hospitals, medical facilities and others who may have unknowingly purchased knockoffs, urging them to stop using the medical-grade masks. Officials encouraged medical workers and companies to go to 3Ms website for tips on how to spot fakes.“Not only do they give a false sense of security, how dangerous is the exposed individual without any protective gear? They have no utility whatsoever,” Homeland Security Secretary Ali Mayorkas said of the fake masks.The masks do not come through 3M's regular distributors, they come from outside the normal supply chain, officials said. But hospitals and medical groups have increasingly gone around normal purchasing routines during mask shortages in the global pandemic, officials said. They said the scams are taking advantage of the panic over masks.Homeland Security officials would not say which states the phony masks were sent to, but said criminal charges would be forthcoming.The phony masks are not tested to see whether they meet strict N95 standards and could put frontline medical workers at risk if they are used while treating patients with Covid-19.Nearly a year into the pandemic, fraud remains a major problem as scammers seek to exploit hospitals and desperate Americans. Federal investigators say they have seen an increase in phony websites purporting to sell vaccines as well as fake medicine produced overseas and scams involving personal protective equipment. The schemes deliver phony products, unlike earlier in the pandemic when fraudsters focused more on fleecing customers.3M, based in Maplewood, Minnesota, is among the largest global producers of the N95 mask, which has been approved by the U.S. National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health. It is considered the gold standard in protection against the coronavirus. The company delivered some 2 billion N95 masks in 2020 as the pandemic intensified, but in the earlier months, when masks were in short supply, fraudsters took advantage.So far during the pandemic Homeland Security Investigations has used its 7,000 agents, along with border officials, the Food and Drug Administration and the FBI, to investigate the scams, seizing $33 million in phony products and arresting more than 200 people. The effort is based at the National Intellectual Property Rights Coordination Center, a government watchdog aimed at enforcing international trade laws and combating intellectual property theft.Over the past two weeks, federal agents have executed search warrants and seized masks in five different states, and more action is expected. But phony masks have already made it to front-line workers in other cases.3M has been dealing with increasing instances of fraud. Over the past year there has been more than 1,250 raids by law enforcement resulting in the seizure of millions of fake masks. The company has filed more than a dozen lawsuits over reports of fraud, counterfeiting and price gouging.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-govt-seizes-over-10-million-phony-n95-masks-in-covid-19-probe-101613600075000.html
18-02-2021||World||US charges North Korean computer programmers in global hacks||The Justice Department has charged three North Korean computer programmers in a broad range of global hacks, including a destructive attack targeting an American movie studio, and in the attempted theft and extortion of more than $1.3 billion from banks and companies, federal prosecutors said Wednesday.The newly unsealed indictment builds off an earlier criminal case brought in 2018 and adds two additional North Korean defendants. Prosecutors identified all three as members of a North Korean military intelligence agency, accusing them of carrying out hacks at the behest of the government with a goal of using stolen funds for the benefit of the regime. Alarmingly to U.S. officials, the defendants worked at times from locations in Russia and China.Law enforcement officials say the prosecution highlights the profit-driven motive behind North Korea's criminal hacking, a contrast from other adversarial nations like Russia, China and Iran who are generally more interested in espionage, intellectual property theft or even disrupting democracy. As the U.S. announced its case against the North Koreans, the government was still grappling with an intrusion by Russia of federal agencies and private corporations that officials say was aimed at information-gathering.“What we see emerging uniquely out of North Korea is trying to raise funds through illegal cyber activities,” including the theft of traditional currency and cryptocurrency, as well as cyber extortion schemes, said Assistant Attorney General John Demers, the Justice Department's top national security official.Because of their economic system and sanctions imposed on the country, he added, “They use their cyber capabilities to try to get currency wherever they can do that, and that's not something that we really see from actors in China or Russia or in Iran.”None of the three defendants is in American custody, and though officials don't expect them to travel to the U.S. anytime soon for prosecution, Justice Department officials in recent years have found value in indicting foreign government hackers — even in absentia — as a message that they are not anonymous and can be identified and implicated in crimes.At the same time, prosecutors unsealed a plea deal with a dual U.S.-Canadian citizen who investigators say organized the sophisticated laundering of millions of dollars in stolen funds. Ghaleb Alaumary, 37, of Ontario, Canada, agreed to plead guilty in Los Angeles to organizing teams of co-conspirators in the U.S. and Canada to launder funds obtained through various schemes.The indictment unsealed Wednesday charges Jon Chang Hyok, Kim Il and Park Jin Hyok with crimes including conspiracy to commit wire and bank fraud. Park was previously charged in 2018 in a criminal complaint linking him to the hacking team responsible for the hack of Sony Pictures and the WannaCry global ransomware attack, among other acts.Besides naming two additional defendants beyond the original case, the new case also adds to the list of victims from around the world of hacks carried out by the Reconnaissance General Bureau.The hackers, according to the indictment, were part of a conspiracy that attempted to steal more than $1.3 billion of money and cryptocurrency from banks and businesses, unleashed a global sweeping campaign and that targeted Sony Pictures Entertainment in 2014 in retaliation for a Hollywood movie, “The Interview,” that the North Korean government didn't like because it depicted a fictionalized assassination of leader Kim Jong Un.The indictment says the hackers engaged not just in cybertheft but also in “revenge-motivated computer attacks, at times executing commands “to destroy computer systems, deploy ransomware” or otherwise render victims' computers inoperable.“The scope of these crimes by the North Korean hackers is staggering," said Tracy Wilkison, the acting U.S. Attorney in the Central District of California, where Sony Pictures is located and where the indictment was filed. “They are the crimes of a nation-state that has stopped at nothing to extract revenge and to obtain money to prop up its regime.”Wikilison would not say how much money the hackers actually received, though the indictment does charge them in connection with an $81 million theft from Bangladesh's central bank in 2016 and with multiple other multi-million-dollar ATM cashouts and cyber extortion schemes. All told, the conspirators “attempted to steal or extort more than $1.3 billion," according to the indictment.To empty the cryptocurrency accounts of victims, the cyberthieves seeded malware posing as cryptocurrency-trading software on legitimate-seeming websites to trick victims, according to an alert published by the FBI and other U.S. agencies. Once infected, a victim’s computer could be entered and controlled by remote access. Later, hackers used other techniques including phishing and social engineering to infect victims' computers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-charges-north-korean-computer-programmers-in-global-hacks-101613600165980.html
18-02-2021||World||To work towards inclusive Indo-Pacific, Quad to hold 3rd ministerial meet today||The Quadrilateral Security Dialogue or Quad will hold its third ministerial meeting on Thursday to discuss practical cooperation for maintaining a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific.The third meeting of the foreign ministers of the group that includes India, Australia, Japan and the US is being held less than five months after the last meeting in Tokyo in October, signalling the Biden administration’s commitment to the Quad as a key formation in the Indo-Pacific.The meeting will “provide an opportunity to continue the useful exchange of views from their last meeting in Tokyo” on October 6, 2020, the external affairs ministry said in a brief statement.The foreign ministers will “exchange views on regional and global issues especially practical areas of cooperation towards maintaining a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific region”, the statement said.External affairs minister S Jaishankar and his counterparts from the other members of the Quad will also discuss efforts to combat the Covid-19 pandemic, addressing global climate change and other issues of mutual interest, the statement said.US state department spokesperson Ned Price told a news briefing in Washington that the virtual meeting of the Quad foreign ministers is “critical to advancing our shared goals of a free and open Indo-Pacific and rising to the defining challenges of our time, including coordinating our efforts on Covid-19 response as well as climate change”.“This administration has made clear that the US values our alliances and will work with our partners and friends around the world to pursue common interests across the globe,” Price added.There had been speculation in some quarters on whether India would continue to work closely with the Quad following progress in its efforts aimed at disengagement with Chinese forces in Ladakh sector of the Line of Actual Control (LAC).After several rounds of talks at the political and diplomatic level, India and China agreed on disengagement on the northern and southern banks of Pangong Lake, one of the friction points in Ladakh sector.At the last Quad ministerial meeting in October, members of the group had pushed for a rules-based global order and peaceful resolution of disputes in the face of China’s growing aggression across the Indo-Pacific.Then US secretary of state Mike Pompeo had indicated at the time of the meeting that Washington wanted to formalise and expand the informal group.While speaking at the Quad meeting in Tokyo, Jaishankar had said that India and the other members of the group remain committed to a rules-based international order, “underpinned by the rule of law, transparency, freedom of navigation in the international seas, respect for territorial integrity and sovereignty, and peaceful resolution of disputes”.The Quad was upgraded to the ministerial level in September 2019. Recent reports have suggested that the Biden administration is keen on further upgrading the Quad by organising a meeting of leaders of the four countries.Chinese officials have likened the group to a “mini NATO” and said its activities are aimed at targeting third parties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/to-work-towards-inclusive-indo-pacific-quad-to-hold-3rd-ministerial-meet-today-101613593376883.html
18-02-2021||World||Rush Limbaugh, radio talk show host, dead at 70||Rush Limbaugh, the talk radio host who ripped into liberals and laid waste to political correctness with a gleeful malice that made him one of the most powerful voices in politics, influencing the rightward push of American conservatism and the rise of Donald Trump, died Wednesday. He was 70.Limbaugh said a year ago that he had lung cancer. His death was announced on his show by his wife, Kathryn.Unflinchingly conservative, wildly partisan, bombastically self-promoting and larger than life, Limbaugh galvanized listeners for more than 30 years with his talent for sarcastic, insult-laced commentary.He called himself an entertainer, but his rants during his three-hour weekday radio show broadcast on nearly 600 U.S. stations shaped the national political conversation, swaying ordinary Republicans and the direction of their party.Blessed with a made-for-broadcasting voice, he delivered his opinions with such certainty that his followers, or “Ditto-heads,” as he dubbed them, took his words as sacred truth.“In my heart and soul, I know I have become the intellectual engine of the conservative movement,” Limbaugh, with typical immodesty, told author Zev Chafets in the 2010 book “Rush Limbaugh: An Army of One.”Forbes magazine estimated his 2018 income at $84 million, ranking him only behind Howard Stern among radio personalities.Limbaugh took as a badge of honor the title “most dangerous man in America.” He said he was the “truth detector,” the “doctor of democracy,” a “lover of mankind,” a “harmless, lovable little fuzz ball” and an “all-around good guy.” He claimed he had “talent on loan from God.”Long before Trump’s rise in politics, Limbaugh was pinning insulting names on his enemies and raging against the mainstream media, accusing it of feeding the public lies. He called Democrats and others on the left communists, wackos, feminazis, liberal extremists, faggots and radicals.When actor Michael J. Fox, suffering from Parkinson’s disease, appeared in a Democratic campaign commercial, Limbaugh mocked his tremors. When a Washington advocate for the homeless killed himself, he cracked jokes. As the AIDS epidemic raged in the 1980s, he made the dying a punchline. He called 12-year-old Chelsea Clinton a dog.He suggested that the Democrats’ stand on reproductive rights would have led to the abortion of Jesus Christ. When a woman accused Duke University lacrosse players of rape, he derided her as a “ho,” and when a Georgetown University law student supported expanded contraceptive coverage, he dismissed her as a “slut.” When Barack Obama was elected president in 2008, Limbaugh said flatly: “I hope he fails.”He was frequently accused of bigotry and blatant racism for such antics as playing the song “Barack the Magic Negro” on his show. The lyrics, set to the tune of “Puff, the Magic Dragon,” describe Obama as someone who “makes guilty whites feel good” and is “Black, but not authentically.”Limbaugh often enunciated the Republican platform better and more entertainingly than any party leader, becoming a GOP kingmaker whose endorsement and friendship were sought. Polls consistently found he was regarded as a voice of the party.His idol, Ronald Reagan, wrote a letter of praise that Limbaugh proudly read on the air in 1992: “You’ve become the number one voice for conservatism.” In 1994, Limbaugh was so widely credited with the first Republican takeover of Congress in 40 years that the GOP made him an honorary member of the new class.During the 2016 presidential primaries, Limbaugh said he realized early on that Trump would be the nominee, and he likened the candidate’s deep connection with his supporters to his own. In a 2018 interview, he conceded Trump is rude but said that is because he is “fearless and willing to fight against the things that no Republican has been willing to fight against.”Trump, for his part, heaped praise on Limbaugh, and during last year's State of the Union speech, awarded the broadcaster the Presidential Medal of Freedom, the nation’s highest civilian honor, calling his friend “a special man beloved by millions.”Both men ultimately found Florida more comfortable than New York: The former president’s Mar-a-Lago estate is eight miles down the same Palm Beach boulevard as Limbaugh’s $50 million beachfront expanse.Trump called into Fox News Channel to discuss his friend's death Wednesday, saying they last spoke three or four days ago, lauding him as “a legend” with impeccable political instincts who “was fighting till the very end.”Former President George W. Bush said Limbaugh “spoke his mind as a voice for millions of Americans.”Limbaugh influenced the likes of Sean Hannity, Glenn Beck, Bill O’Reilly and countless other conservative commentators who pushed the boundaries of what passes as acceptable public discourse.His brand of blunt, no-gray-area debate spread to cable TV, town hall meetings, political rallies and Congress itself, emerging during the battles over health care and the ascent of the tea party movement.“What he did was to bring a paranoia and really mean, nasty rhetoric and hyperpartisanship into the mainstream,” said Martin Kaplan, a University of Southern California professor who is an expert on the intersection of politics and entertainment and a frequent critic of Limbaugh. “The kind of antagonism and vituperativeness that characterized him instantly became acceptable everywhere.”Such criticism echoed again and again, but Limbaugh seemed only to push further, assembling an ever-growing list of those branded enemies, of the issues the public was purportedly being fooled on, and the lies the mainstream media was supposedly feeding.He offered a litany of it to his listeners, as in a 1991 broadcast he heavily quotes in his first book, “The Way Things Ought to Be.” In that single show, in one breathless segment, he railed against the homeless, AIDS patients, criticism of Christopher Columbus, aid to the Soviet Union, condoms in schools, animal rights advocates, multiculturalism, the social safety net and on and on.His foes accused him of trafficking in half-truths, bias and outright lies — the very tactics he decried in others. Al Franken, the comedian and one-time senator, came out with a book in 1996 called “Rush Limbaugh Is a Big Fat Idiot and Other Observations.”Earlier this year, Limbaugh took a dismissive tone to those calling for an end to violence after the ugly scenes of a mob insurrection at the Capitol, comparing the rioters to the colonists who sparked the American Revolution.“We’re supposed to be horrified by the protesters,” Limbaugh told his listeners the next day after the Jan. 6 attack. “There’s a lot of people out there calling for the end of violence ... who say that any violence or aggression at all is unacceptable regardless of the circumstances.”“I am glad Sam Adams ... Thomas Paine ... the actual tea party guys ... the men at Lexington and Concord, didn’t feel that way," he added.In 2003, Limbaugh admitted an addiction to painkillers and went into rehab. Authorities opened an investigation into alleged “doctor shopping,” saying he received up to 2,000 pills from four doctors over six months.He ultimately reached a deal with prosecutors in which they agreed to drop the charge if he continued with drug treatment and paid $30,000 toward the cost of the investigation.He lost his hearing around that time. He said it was from an autoimmune disorder, while his critics said hearing loss is a known side effect of painkiller abuse. He received cochlear implants, which restored his hearing and saved his career.A portly, cigar-chomping, round-faced figure, Limbaugh was divorced three times, after marrying Roxy Maxine McNeely in 1977, Michelle Sixta in 1983 and Marta Fitzgerald in 1994. He married his fourth wife, the former Kathryn Rogers, in a lavish 2010 ceremony featuring Elton John. He had no children.Rush Hudson Limbaugh III was born Jan. 12, 1951, in Cape Girardeau, Missouri, to the former Mildred Armstrong, and Rush Limbaugh Jr., who flew fighter planes in World War II and practiced law at home.Rusty, as the younger Limbaugh was known, was chubby and shy, with little interest in school but a passion for broadcasting. He would turn down the television during St. Louis Cardinals baseball games, offering play-by-play, and gave running commentary during the evening news. By high school, he had snagged a radio job.Limbaugh dropped out of Southeast Missouri State University for a string of DJ gigs, from his Missouri hometown, to McKeesport, Pennsylvania, to Pittsburgh and then Kansas City. Known as Rusty Sharpe and then Jeff Christie on the air, he mostly spun Top 40 hits and sprinkled in glimpses of his wit and conservatism.“One of the early reasons radio interested me was that I thought it would make me popular,” he once wrote.But he didn’t gain the following he craved and gave up on radio for several years, beginning in 1979, becoming promotions director for baseball’s Kansas City Royals. He ultimately returned to broadcasting, again in Kansas City and then Sacramento, California.It was there in the early 1980s that Limbaugh really garnered an audience, broadcasting shows dripping with sarcasm and bravado. The stage name was gone.Limbaugh began broadcasting nationally in 1988 from WABC in New York. While his know-it-all commentary quickly gained traction, he was dismayed by his reception in the big city. He thought he would be welcomed by Peter Jennings, Tom Brokaw and Dan Rather.“I came to New York,” he wrote, “and I immediately became a nothing, a zero.”Ultimately, Limbaugh moved his radio show to Palm Beach and bought his massive estate. Talkers Magazine, which covers the industry, said Limbaugh had the nation’s largest audience in 2019, with 15 million unique listeners each week.“When Rush wants to talk to America, all he has to do is grab his microphone. He attracts more listeners with just his voice than the rest of us could ever imagine,” Beck wrote in Time magazine in 2009. “He is simply on another level.”Limbaugh expounded on his world view in the best-selling books “The Way Things Ought to Be” and “See, I Told You So.”He had a late-night TV show in the 1990s that got decent ratings but lackluster advertising because of his divisive message. When he guest-hosted “The Pat Sajak Show” in 1990, audience members called him a Nazi and repeatedly shouted at him.He was fired from a short-lived job as an NFL commentator on ESPN in 2003 after he said the media had made a star out of Philadelphia Eagles quarterback Donovan McNabb because it was “very desirous that a Black quarterback do well.” His racial remarks also derailed a 2009 bid to become one of the owners of the NFL’s St. Louis Rams.“Do you ever wake up in the middle of the night and just think to yourself, `I am just full of hot gas?’” David Letterman asked him in 1993 on “The Late Show.”“I am a servant of humanity,” Limbaugh replied. “I am in the relentless pursuit of the truth. I actually sit back and think that I’m just so fortunate to have this opportunity to tell people what’s really going on.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/rush-limbaugh-radio-talk-show-host-dead-at-70-101613583555469.html
18-02-2021||India||Parts of wire and battery found from blast site in Bengal, minister stable||Sleuths probing the explosion, which left minister Jakir Hossain and at least 26 others injured, have found parts of battery and a piece of wire from the spot.Contrary to what was believed on Wednesday that bombs were hurled at Hossain, officials said that the explosives were kept in a bag on the railway platform. His condition was stated to be stable after surgery.Whether the explosion was triggered remotely using an IED or it was just some crude bombs that were kept in the bag which exploded when someone kicked it, is what officials are trying to verify.“Samples have been collected from the spot for forensic analysis. While a battery was found on the railway tracks, a piece of wire was found at a distance on the platform,” said an official.Hossain, who is the minister of state for labour in West Bengal, was critically wounded in a blast on Wednesday night when he went to the Nimtita railway station to board a Kolkata-bound train. At least 26 others were injured. Some had their limbs blown off and at least 15 of the victims had to be shifted to Kolkata.Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee also pointed towards an IED blast saying: “Those who were with him have claimed that the blast was remotely controlled. Police is investigating so nothing concrete can be said as of now. But prima facie it appears that it was pre-planned,” she said.Officials said that there was hardly any light on the platform at that time. Some of the people who were walking with the minister said that they had spotted the bag which exploded.“It is clear from a video which was taken seconds before the blast that a man walking next to Hossain had alerted the people that there was a bag lying on the way. Seconds after the explosion took place,” said an officer.Banerjee has already ordered a high-level investigation into the incident by three state-run investigation agencies – the Criminal Investigation Department, Special Task Force and Counter Insurgency Force. CID officials have already rushed to the spot and inspected the platform and the railway tracks.While addressing a BJP rally, the party's state president Dilip Ghosh demanded a CBI probe into the bomb attack while other leaders of the party said in Kolkata that the probe should be done by the NIA.Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar has said that the probe should be done by the NIA.“I understand that the state government has formed a Special Investigation Team. But since the offence is under the Explosives Act, a very expert investigation is required. I am sure the National Investigation Agency (NIA), that has the required expertise to probe the matter, should be involved,” said Dhankhar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parts-of-wire-and-battery-found-from-blast-site-in-bengal-minister-stable-101613671713922.html
18-02-2021||India||Senior BJP, RSS leaders meet Tripura CM after 'BJP in Nepal' remark||Few days after Tripura chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb made a controversial statement that BJP has plans to expand its base in Nepal and Sri Lanka, BJP and RSS top leaders met him on Thursday.Sources from the BJP said that the senior leaders met to discuss the party's organisational matter. They, however, didn't confirm if the purpose of their visit was to discuss Deb's controversial statement."I met BJP's regional general secretary Ajay Jamwal, Ullas ji from Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangha and Prant Pracharak Nikhil ji," Deb tweeted.During a party event in Agartala, Deb had said Union home minister Amit Shah, during his tenure as party president, had shared plans of expanding party's base and winning Nepal and Sri Lanka. Deb said that Shah's comments came during a meeting in Tripura with the party leaders.Clarifying Deb's comment, state's law minister Ratan Lal Nath said that what Deb meant was that the BJP's thoughts would be accepted by the other countries and didn't mean expanding party base there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/senior-bjp-rss-leaders-meet-tripura-cm-after-bjp-in-nepal-remark-101613671984991.html
18-02-2021||India||Puducherry floor test: BJP trying to topple elected govt, says CM Narayanasamy||Puducherry chief minister V Narayanasamy on Thursday accused the Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) of trying to topple his democratically elected government, as Lieutenant Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan ordered a floor test in the House by 5pm on February 22.“Today I held a meeting with the MLAs and discussed the floor test. No decision has been taken in today’s meet. We will hold a meeting again on February 21. We are also consulting with our alliance partner DMK," news agency ANI quoted Narayanasamy as saying after the meeting."The BJP is behind all these things. They are all out to bring down a democratically elected government. This is an attempt to bury democracy," Narayanasamy further said.Soundararajan issued orders for the floor test just hours after taking oath as the new Lieutenant Governor of the poll-bound Union territory, succeeding Kiran Bedi, whose tenure was marred with multiple spats with the chief minister.The Congress-led Puducherry government has fallen into turmoil after four MLAs, including two ministers, resigned from their posts. This has brought down the party’s strength in the 30-member legislative assembly to ten, including the speaker, while its ally DMK has three representatives. The ruling alliance and the Opposition now have 14 members each in the House, just two short of the magic figure of 16.In her orders, Soundararajan, who is also the Telangana governor, said that the government has been reduced to a minority and should prove its strength on the floor of the legislative assembly. The order further stated that the meeting shall be confined to a "single" agenda, "namely whether the government of the incumbent chief minister continues to enjoy the confidence of the House." Voting shall take place by show of hands and the entire proceedings be videographed, as per the official release.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/puducherry-floor-test-bjp-trying-to-topple-elected-govt-says-cm-narayanasamy-101613670683333.html
18-02-2021||India||5 things to know about Maharashtra’s worrying Covid-19 situation||The coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation in Maharashtra has worsened in the past few days. According to the daily bulletin by the health department, the state reported 5,427 new Covid-19 cases on Thursday, the highest single-day infection tally this year. In the wake of rising Covid-19 cases, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and other state officials have even warned of another lockdown if people don’t abide by social distancing norms recommended by the health authorities. A fresh surge in Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra’s capital Mumbai prompted the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to issue updated Covid-19 guidelines.Here are 5 things to know about Maharashtra’s Covid-19 situation:Maharashtra has, so far, reported a total of more than 2,081,520 Covid-19 cases and at least 51,669 related deaths. As of Thursday evening, as many as 15,521,198 samples have been tested of which 65,930 samples were tested in the last 24 hours.Maharashtra chief secretary Sanjay Kumar has directed district collectors of Amaravati, Akola and Yavatmal to declare containment zones in areas with a high number of Covid-19 patients. The schools and colleges in Yavatmal will stay closed till February 28, while restaurant and marriage halls have been allowed to operate at a maximum capacity of 50 per cent.Read | ‘Won’t let Covid-19 get better of Mumbai’: BMC updates norms to tackle pandemicMumbai alone reported 736 new Covid-19 infections on Thursday and many believe the resumption of local train services has contributed to the rise in cases. Mumbai’s total death toll related to the viral infection stands at 11,432 as the city, on Thursday, added four fresh fatalities to the list.In order to minimise the virus transmission in local trains of Mumbai, the BMC has decided to appoint 300 marshals to take action against those travelling without face masks. Police personnel have also been authorised to impose fine on residents those are found roaming without masks.The variants of concern (VOC) detected in several countries with higher transmissibility and reduced vaccine efficacy prompted the BMC to announce a compulsory 7-day institutional quarantine for travellers arriving from Brazil, where P.1 is dominant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-things-to-know-about-maharashtra-s-worrying-covid-19-situation-101613669808885.html
18-02-2021||India||'New laws, ending of J&K's autonomy affect rights of minorities': UN experts||India’s decision to scrap Jammu and Kashmir’s special status and enact new laws could curtail political participation of Muslims and other minorities and lead to potential discrimination in employment and land ownership, two UN human rights experts said on Thursday.The concerns were expressed by Fernand de Varennes, special rapporteur on minority issues, and Ahmed Shaheed, special rapporteur on freedom of religion or belief, even as a delegation of 24 envoys wound up a two-day visit to Jammu and Kashmir to assess the ground situation.There was no immediate response from Indian officials to the comments by the special rapporteurs who are part of independent fact-finding and monitoring mechanisms of the UN Human Rights Council.In the past, India has bristled at adverse reports by UN special rapporteurs and described them as interference in the country’s internal matters.In a statement issued in Geneva, de Varennes and Shaheed said, “The loss of autonomy and the imposition of direct rule by the Government in New Delhi suggests the people of Jammu and Kashmir no longer have their own government and have lost power to legislate or amend laws in the region to ensure the protection of their rights as minorities.”Also read: ‘Won’t let Covid-19 get better of Mumbai’ - BMC updates norms to tackle pandemicThe experts said the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir was “established with specific autonomy guarantees to respect the ethnic, linguistic and religious identities of its people,” and it was the only Indian state with a Muslim majority.They contended the government had “unilaterally and without consultation revoked the constitutional special status of Jammu and Kashmir” on August 5, 2019, and passed “domicile rules which removed protections given to those from the territory” in May 2020. “Subsequent changes to land laws are further eroding these protections,” they said.They added, “The number of successful applicants for domicile certificates that appear to be from outside Jammu and Kashmir raises concerns that demographic change on a linguistic, religious and ethnic basis is already underway.”The new legislation “overrides previous laws which granted the Kashmiri Muslim, Dogri, Gojri, Pahari, Sikh, Ladhaki and other established minorities rights to buy property, own land, and access certain state jobs”.“These legislative changes may have the potential to pave the way for people from outside the former state of Jammu and Kashmir to settle in the region, alter the demographics of the region and undermine the minorities’ ability to exercise effectively their human rights,” de Varennes and Shaheed said.The special rapporteurs urged the government to ensure that economic, social and cultural rights of the people of Jammu and Kashmir are protected, and they are able to “express their political opinions and participate meaningfully in matters affecting them”.The experts also said they are in contact with the Indian government on this matter.India has said its decision to scrap Jammu and Kashmir’s special status and to split the region into two Union territories was aimed at ending decades of poor governance and bolstering development and efforts to counter terrorism backed by Pakistan. The government has dismissed all criticism of its actions, saying they amount to interference in the country’s internal affairs, and also pointed out that the region’s special status was of temporary nature.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-laws-ending-of-j-k-s-autonomy-affect-rights-of-minorities-un-experts-101613670043473.html
18-02-2021||India||Carcass of Gangetic Dolphin found floating in Odisha river||The carcass of a Gangetic Dolphin weighing a little more than 50 kg was caught in the net of a fisherman in a river in coastal Bhadrak district, officials said on Thursday.Forest department officials said the carcass of the Gangetic Dolphin was caught by a fisherman of Kruttibaspur village in Bhadrak district when he was pulling in his net in Salandi river on Wednesday. Forest ranger of Bhadrak, Subas Nayak said the sarpanch of Govindpur gram panchayat informed him about the dead dolphin.“The dolphin was at least 5.5 feet long and did not have any injury mark. After inspecting the carcass, I was certain that it was a Gangetic Dolphin as it had a long, pointed snout that is characteristic of all river dolphins. Both the upper and lower jaw sets of long sharp teeth were visible even when the mouth was closed. We are carrying out a post-mortem of the carcass to know how it died,” said the ranger.DFO in-charge of Bhadrak Wildlife Division, Bikash Ranjan Das said in November last year a smaller female Gangetic Dolphin was found floating in Gobari river of Kendrapara district. “It may have travelled upstream from the sea or may have travelled from some other river. In 2005 too, we had found a Gangetic dolphin in Budhabalanga river of Balasore district,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/carcass-of-gangetic-dolphin-found-floating-in-odisha-river-101613664190070.html
18-02-2021||India||'BJP loss in Punjab municipal polls not linked to farm laws': Tomar||Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Thursday said that the loss of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the recent municipal polls in Punjab should not be linked to the three farm laws introduced by Centre and the ongoing agitation by farmers against them.“It would be incorrect to link the Punjab municipal polls with the farmers’ agitation. Our party was weak in Punjab and we had a tie-up with Shiromani Akali Dal there. This time both the parties contested the polls separately and it resulted in a loss for us,” he said in Guwahati during a press conference.Also read: ‘Won’t let Covid-19 get better of Mumbai’ - BMC updates norms to tackle pandemicThe ruling Congress in Punjab has swept the municipal polls in the state winning most of the wards in the eight municipal corporations.“With regards to the farmers’ agitation, I have been in regular talks with the Kisan Union. The Central government is ready for a clause by clause talks on the farm laws and if anything is against the interest of the farmers, we are ready to discuss it,” the minister said.Tomar, who’s the BJP’s election in-charge for the upcoming assembly polls in the state in April-May, predicted a win for the party due to the policies of the incumbent state government in the past five years.“In Assam, instead of anti-incumbency, there’s pro-incumbency in favour of the ruling BJP government. I am confident that the party will form a government again in the state,” Tomar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-loss-in-punjab-municipal-polls-not-linked-to-farm-laws-tomar-101613668390926.html
18-02-2021||India||Defence secretary advises IAF to avoid closure of Jammu airport for 15 days||Defence secretary Ajay Kumar on Thursday advised the Indian Air Force (IAF) to work in tandem with the Airports Authority of India (AAI) and find a way out to avoid closure of Jammu Airport for civilian traffic for 15 days next month, officials privy to the meeting said.Kumar chaired a meeting in Delhi with the IAF, the AAI and the MES. Deputy secretary of the civil aviation ministry was also present at the meeting.The IAF recently wrote a letter to the AAI proposing the closure of Jammu Airport for 15 days from March 6 to March 20 for resurfacing runway and undertaking other allied works.“Defence secretary, who chaired the meeting, asked the IAF to work out a solution with the AAI on the grounds stating that closure of the Jammu Airport for civilian traffic for 15 straight days was not desirable,” they said.Also read: EAM Jaishankar to visit Maldives, Mauritius this week to review bilateral tiesHe said that doing so will cause grave inconvenience to the administration and people alike and therefore the IAF should find a way out in tandem with the AAI, they added.Officials informed that for now, the proposed closure of the airport for 15 straight days may not take place from March 6. Jammu and Kashmir lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha has also taken up the matter with defence minister Rajnath Singh.Nearly two dozen flights operate to and from the Jammu airport.On Wednesday, Jammu and Kashmir chief secretary BVR Subrahmanyam had also written to the civil aviation secretary Pradeep Singh Kharola requesting the resurfacing of the runway to be done in a phased manner to avoid disruption of civilian traffic. Subrahmanyam said in his letter that complete closure of the airport for 15 days would create huge administrative issues for Jammu and Kashmir.Following the IAF’s letter, private airliners have stopped taking bookings for the 15 day period. The runway work is scheduled to begin on March 5 and end on March 20.Officials said Air Force Station, Jammu wants a complete closure of the runway for 15 days towards laying of final two top DAC-II layers on the runway surface from March 6 to 20 which has been approved by the Air Headquarters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/defence-secretary-advises-iaf-to-avoid-closure-of-jammu-airport-for-15-days-101613663700812.html
18-02-2021||India||Shivaji Jayanti 2021: All you need to know about the founder of Maratha dynasty||Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj, the founder of the Maratha Kingdom, was born on February 19, 1630, a day celebrated as Shivaji Jayanti in India, particularly in the state of Maharashtra. Friday marks the 391st birth anniversary of the courageous Maratha warrior and the day is celebrated in Maharashtra with great fanfare. The Maharashtra government declared Shivaji Jayanti to be a public holiday in the state.Here’s all you need to know about the great Maratha warrior:This year, however, celebrations are expected to be toned down because of the restrictions announced by the Maharashtra government to contain the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The home department has banned processions and bike rallies while restricting the number of people in celebratory gatherings to 100.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shivaji-jayanti-2021-all-you-need-to-know-about-the-founder-of-maratha-dynasty-101613664383768.html
18-02-2021||India||15 activists hurt in baton-charge in Kerala’s Thiruvananthapuram, 6 cops injured||Nearly 15 youth activists, including women, were injured on Thursday after the police resorted to baton-charge on protesting workers of the Kerala Students Union (KSU), the student wing of the Congress, outside the state secretariat. Women activists later alleged that they were brutalized by policemen ignoring all norms. Six policemen were also injured in the clashes.The Kerala secretariat turned into a battle ground for many hours after police and youth activists clashed. KSU activists came to greet two fasting Congress legislators, K S Sabarinathan and Shafi Parambhil, but their rally turned violent after they broke barriers and tried to enter the secretariat. Police resorted to lathi-charge when efforts to dissuade them failed. KSU state president K B Abhijith and Secretary Sneha Nair were among the injured.The secretariat has been witnessing a series of protests for more than two weeks over the delay in recruiting job aspirants who figured in the public service commission merit list and alleged back door appointments in many government departments. On Thursday, many national games medal winners tonsured their heads protesting the government’s failure in giving them jobs. After the national games, the government had offered jobs to them and sports minister E P Jayarajan had held a big function to felicitate them.“The state has never seen such an insensitive CM. Youngsters were brutally attacked by police. And some of the policemen were not even carrying their badges or name plate. Pinarayi Vijayan is trying to enact Nandigram in Kerala which led to the fall of the last CPI (M) government in West Bengal,” said Youth Congress state president Shafi Parambhil who has been on a fast for the last six days in support of agitating job aspirants.Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, however, justified the police action. “Police resorted to lathi-charge when they were attacked. The Congress is trying to create mayhem by unleashing violence,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/15-activists-hurt-in-baton-charge-in-kerala-s-thiruvananthapuram-6-cops-injured-101613661185901.html
18-02-2021||India||News updates from HT: S Jaishankar scheduled to visit Maldives, Mauritius and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.EAM Jaishankar to visit Maldives, Mauritius this week to review bilateral tiesExternal affairs minister S Jaishankar will make a visit to the Maldives and Mauritius later this week to review bilateral ties and development cooperation; especially measures aimed at helping the Indian Ocean states overcome the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. Read More‘Aim was to kill him’: Mamata condemns attack on ‘popular’ leader JakirWest Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday said the bomb attack on state labour minister Jakir Hossain was aimed at killing him and sought a 'proper' investigation into the incident. Read MorePuducherry political crisis: LG orders floor test on Feb 22Amid political turmoil in Puducherry, Lieutenant Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan on Thursday ordered a floor test. Read MoreDog trapped in middle of frozen lake in Texas’ Odessa rescued. WatchThe animal rescue stories often put a smile on people’s face. ReadJuhi Chawla proud to see Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan and her daughter Jahnavi at IPL auction, cheers for 'KKR kids'Actor and co-owner of the Kolkata Knight Riders (KKR) team Juhi Chawla was filled with pride to see her daughter, Jahnavi, and actor Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan Khan at the ongoing IPL auction in Chennai. Read MoreHeiress Paris Hilton gets engaged to entrepreneur beau Carter ReumA day before Valentine's Day, heiress and businesswoman Paris Hilton got engaged to her 'soulmate', venture capitalist Carter Reum on Saturday, February 13. Read MoreRecipe: Pilates? No, we prefer pie-lattes especially if its protein pumpkin pieWhat’s better than ‘real’ pumpkin pie? A protein pumpkin pie with additional perks of not making us immobile even. Read MoreNana Patole questions Amitabh Bachchan, Akshay Kumar’s silence on fuel pricesMaharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole on Thursday said if actors Amitabh Bachchan and Akshay Kumar do not take a stand on the issue of fuel price hike, then screening of their films and shootings would not be allowed in the state.Talking to reporters here, Patole said Bachchan and Kumar had tweeted about fuel price rise during the previous UPA government, but are now silent on the issue. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-s-jaishankar-scheduled-to-visit-maldives-mauritius-and-all-the-latest-news-101613660156213.html
18-02-2021||India||No proposal to hike PDS prices of food grains under NFSA, says Piyush Goyal||The government currently has no proposal to hike the prices of foodgrains sold through ration shops under the National Food Security Act (NFSA), Union Food Minister Piyush Goyal said on Thursday.Currently, the government supplies highly subsidised foodgrains at ₹1-3 per kg to over 81 crore people through public distribution system (PDS).Under the NFSA, which was passed in 2013 during the previous UPA regime, there is a provision for revision of the issue prices of foodgrains every three years. However, foodgrains prices have not been revised since the introduction of the Act although economic cost has increased every year."At present, there is no such proposal before the food ministry to increase the prices of products given under the Food Security Act," Goyal said in a virtual press conference.And, the PDS prices of rice, wheat and coarse grains will continue to be sold at ₹3, ₹2 and Re 1 per kg, respectively, he said.The minister was responding to a query if the Centre has plans to hike the PDS rates as the Economic Survey 2021 has recommended increasing the prices of foodgrains sold under PDS to reduce food security bill.The government supplies 5 kg of subsidised foodgrains to each person per month through 5.5 lakh ration shops. NFSA has been rolled out across the country since November 2016.On the progress made in ration card portability, the minister said the work in this regard under the scheme 'One Nation, One Ration Card (ONORC)' began two years ago and today, the facility is available in 32 states and Union Territories.Under the ONORC plan, beneficiaries can lift their entitled foodgrains from any electronic point of sale device (ePoS)-enabled fair price shops of their choice by using their existing ration cards with biometric authentication.Goyal said, "Two years back, the work had begun when it was implemented in four states. In a short span of time, this facility has now been provided in 32 states/UTs covering about 69 crore beneficiaries."About 1.5 crore beneficiaries are taking advantage of the ration card portability facility, he added.Stating that four more states are expected to implement the ONORC by March 31, Goyal said, "The speedy work is in progress in Delhi, Assam, Chhattisgarh and West Bengal. Due to elections in Assam and West Bengal, there might be some delay of 2-3 months."The central government is in regular touch with the rest of the states where ration card portability is yet to be implemented and encouraging them to put necessary systems in place, he added.To ensure seamless service of ration card portability, a food ministry official said all ration cards given under the NFSA have been fully digitalised, Aadhaar seeding has been completed in 91 per cent of the ration cards and ePoS machines have installed in 4.9 lakh ration shops so far.On a monthly basis, 70 per cent biometric transactions are happening at ration shops, he added.On foodgrains procurement, the minister said there has been a substantial rise in wheat and paddy buying at minimum support price (MSP) directly from farmers in the past seven years.During 2020-21, the MSP payment was at "all-time high" as ₹75,000 crore worth of wheat was purchased from 43.46 lakh farmers, while ₹1.72 lakh crore worth of paddy from 1.54 crore farmers, he added.To ensure MSP reaches farmers, a senior food ministry official said states have been directed to make online payment via state or FCI portals.Even Haryana and Punjab have been asked to ensure online payments to farmers are done through e-mode from the upcoming season, he added.That apart, procurement through bio-authentication of farmers has been introduced in Uttar Pradesh. Odisha, Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh are also keen to adopt bio-authenticated procurement which will ensure transparency and tracking end-use beneficiary.The ministry is also looking at monetisation of assets of the Food Corporation of India (FCI) and the Central Warehousing Corporation (CWC), which will lead to large investments in modernisation of warehousing and storage infrastructure, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-proposal-to-hike-pds-prices-of-food-grains-under-nfsa-says-piyush-goyal-101613661237227.html
18-02-2021||India||'Metro man' E Sreedharan: All you need to know about the engineer who is set to join BJP||Elattuvalapil Sreedharan, popularly known as the ‘Metro man’ of India, made headlines on Thursday by announcing to join the Kerala unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Sreedharan is an engineer by profession who retired as the chief of Delhi Metro and was involved with metro projects in cities of Kochi, Lucknow and Jaipur.E Sreedharan, an engineer who has worn many hats including that of a lecturer, was the person behind the country’s first metro service, Kolkata Metro. He has worked on the restoration of the picturesque Pamban Bridge, India’s first sea bridge, that connects Rameswaram to mainland Tamil Nadu. He was involved in the Konkan Railway project and, towards the tail end of his career, he was in charge of the Delhi Metro project and retired as its chief in 2011. He was awarded the Padma Shri in 2001 and the Padma Vibhushan in 2008.Sreedharan was a classmate of the former chief election commissioner T N Seshan, who is known for initiating groundbreaking electoral reforms. They both studied at the BEM High School and later at Victoria College in Palakkad, Kerala.In 2019, Sreedharan grabbed headlines when he wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, asking him not to agree to the Aam Aadmi Party-led Delhi government’s proposal to make metro travel free for women commuters. Since Delhi Metro was constructed with the help of a loan from the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA), he was worried about its repayments.“One shareholder cannot take a unilateral decision to give concession to one section of the community and push Delhi Metro into inefficiency and bankruptcy,” he wrote to the prime minister in June.Worried about a possible surge in the cost of commuting for other passengers, Sreedharan cited it as one of the reasons for not allowing travel concessions when he served as the chief. “Sir, when the first section of the Delhi Metro was to be opened, I had taken a firm and conscious decision that no one would be given any travel concession on Delhi Metro. This stand was taken to maximize revenues so that Metro fares could be kept low so as to be affordable to ordinary citizens,” he wrote in the letter.In 2018, Sreedharan had also criticised the prime minister’s ambitious bullet train project. In an interview with Hindustan Times, the ‘Metro man of India’ had said that "bullet trains are only for the elite...India needs a safe railway system." He commented that the project was "highly expensive and beyond the reach of the common people."The BJP has only one MLA in the 140-member Kerala legislative assembly and has been trying to make in-roads in the southern state as assembly polls are scheduled in April-May. The 88-year-old engineer, a household name in the state, told Hindustan Times on Thursday that his decision to join active politics is well thought out and that the BJP, he believes, is the only party that can do justice to the state of Kerala.“It is not an impulsive decision but well thought out one. I feel the BJP is the right party which can do justice to the state. Kerala has immense potential but I feel sorry about the state of affairs,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/metro-man-e-sreedharan-all-you-need-to-know-about-the-engineer-who-is-set-to-join-bjp-101613660331354.html
18-02-2021||India||No untoward incident amid ‘Rail Roko’, negligible impact on services: Railways||The four-hour long ‘Rail Roko’ agitation on Thursday called by farmers against the Centre's three agriculture laws ended without any untoward incident, the ministry of railways said on Thursday adding that the majority of the railway zones reported no incident due to the protest.Ahead of the protesting farmers’ call for a four-hour rail blockade across the country from 12 noon to 4 pm on Thursday, the railways tightened security and deployed additional forces across Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal, according to officials aware of the development.The Railway Protection Force (RPF) had deployed 20 additional companies, or around 2,000 personnel, across the four states. Regulating trains means that the trains have either been cancelled, short terminated or re rerouted.In total 25 trains along the Northern Railways zones were “regulated,” railways said.“The Rail Roko agitation passed off without any untoward incident. There was negligible or minimal impact on running of the trains across the country. Train movement in all the zones is normal now,” the spokesperson for the ministry said.“Majority of the zones have not reported a single case of any stoppage of train by the agitators. Few trains were stopped in some areas of some Railway Zones but now train operation is normal and trains are being operated smoothly. While dealing with the Rail Roko agitation, utmost patience was exercised by all concerned,” he added.Within an hour of the agitation being over, the Railways said that all its services were running normally across the country.Farmer groups had called for a Rail Roko agitation on Thursday in a bid to amplify their protest against the three contentious farm laws. Samyukta Kisan Morcha, a united front of farmers’ unions, is spearheading the agitation.Earlier, farmers in Punjab had called for rail blockades across the state in September last year in protest against the farm laws, resulting in complete suspension of trains in the state for nearly two months. In November, amid the tussle between the Centre and the Punjab government over allowing the passage of trains in the state, the Railways claimed losses of nearly ₹1,200 crore in freight revenue with more than 2,225 goods trains suspended and 1,350 passenger trains cancelled and diverted.The railway ministry had also informed Parliament last week that it suffered losses of ₹1,462.45 crore in FY 2020-21 due to “various agitations/strikes including dharnas at platforms and near tracks”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-untoward-incident-amid-rail-roko-negligible-impact-on-services-railways-101613658165473.html
18-02-2021||India||EAM Jaishankar to visit Maldives, Mauritius this week to review bilateral ties||External affairs minister S Jaishankar will make a visit to the Maldives and Mauritius later this week to review bilateral ties and development cooperation; especially measures aimed at helping the Indian Ocean states overcome the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic.With the easing of Covid-19-related travel restrictions, Jaishankar made his first foreign visit to Sri Lanka last month and there are plans for him to travel to Bangladesh on March 4 to prepare the ground for a visit by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.The Indian Ocean states occupy a special place in India’s “Neighbourhood First” policy and the Maldives has been a key beneficiary of India’s efforts to help countries in the neighbourhood overcome the effects of the pandemic. Last year, India extended urgent budgetary support of $250 million to the Maldives and provided another $500 million for the Greater Male Connectivity Project.Jaishankar will be in the Maldives during February 20-21 and have meetings with President Ibrahim Mohamed Solih and the ministers for foreign affairs, defence, finance, economic development and planning and infrastructure.He will also hold talks with Speaker Mohamed Nasheed, a key supporter of better ties with India, and meet political leaders.“During this visit, [Jaishankar] will review the entire gamut of our bilateral ties as well as progress of ongoing bilateral projects and hold discussions on the ongoing Covid-19 situation, including India’s continued assistance to the Maldives for its post-Covid economic recovery,” the external affairs ministry said.On his visit to Mauritius during February 22-23, Jaishankar will meet President Pritivirajsing Roopun and Prime Minister Pravind Jagnauth. He will also hold talks with foreign minister Alan Ganoo. Jaishankar will review bilateral ties, implementation of infrastructure projects by India and hold talks on bilateral, regional and global issues, including India’s assistance to Mauritius, the ministry said.Mauritius received 100,000 doses of Indian-made Covid-19 vaccines as a grant last month, becoming one of four Indian Ocean states to benefit from the “Vaccine Maitri” initiative.The Maldives and Mauritius are “key maritime neighbours in the Indian Ocean region and occupy a special place in [the] Prime Minister’s vision of ‘SAGAR’ (Security and Growth for All in the Region)”, the ministry said.Jaishankar’s visit is “testimony to the importance that India attaches to its close and friendly relations with the Maldives and Mauritius and is expected to lend further momentum to substantive cooperation and robust people-to-people ties between the two countries,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eam-jaishankar-to-visit-maldives-mauritius-this-week-to-review-bilateral-ties-101613658832129.html
18-02-2021||India||Reality check for Chirag Paswan as more than 200 workers dump LJP to join JD (U)||In a major setback to Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) chief Chirag Paswan, more than 200 party leaders, including its state secretary Keshav Singh, joined the Janata Dal (United) on Thursday.Welcoming the leaders into the JD (U), its national president R C P Singh said there was no place for family and dynasty in his party. “If one is honest, dedicated and has merit, he can get any post in the JD(U), which is the only party which believes in socialist ideology,” said Singh.On Wednesday, Rameshwar Chaurasia, a former MLA and once a prominent BJP face, had resigned from the primary membership of the LJP which he had joined just before the 2020 Bihar Assembly election.Chaurasia had contested Assembly elections from Sasaram on an LJP ticket after being overlooked by the BJP but lost. Chaurasia hasn’t joined any party yet but there is speculation that he could return to the BJP.In the 2020 election, the LJP played the role of a spoilsport as it damaged the JD(U)’s prospects by fielding candidates in almost all the seats that the latter contested. While the JD(U) could win only 43 seats, the LJP itself won only one seat.Keshav Singh, who is said to be have been a confidant of Chirag Paswan, accused his former boss of selling the party. “We took the LJP to every nook and corner of Bihar but after he (Chirag) took over, he was instrumental in giving tickets to those involved in scams who went on to become Lok Sabha MPs. Very soon, he will be in jail as he is involved in an income tax scam,” said Singh.Meanwhile, the JD(U) has decided to celebrate chief minister Nitish Kumar’s birthday on March 1 as Vikas Diwas.The JD (U) chief said party workers will take to every village to highlight the development ushered in by Kumar. “Nitish Kumar has given a new identity to Bihar. He believes in the service of Bihar and Bihar is his family,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/reality-check-for-chirag-paswan-as-more-than-200-workers-dump-ljp-to-join-jd-u-101613657315048.html
18-02-2021||India||'Metro man' E Sreedharan set to join BJP, says 'party can do justice to Kerala'||The 'Metro man of India', E Sreedharan (88), sprang a surprise on Thursday by announcing his decision to join the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) which is trying desperately to get a foothold in bipolar politics of Kerala.“It is not an impulsive decision but well thought out one. I feel the BJP is the right party which can do justice to the state. Kerala has immense potential but I feel sorry about the state of affairs,” Sreedharan told the Hindustan Times after party state president K Surendran announced his debut in politics.He will be given a membership during Surendran’s state-wide pre-poll yatra next week.A household name in the state, Sreedharan’s entry will be a big boost to the saffron party in Kerala where it is a distant third-runner. Surendran said he will be a candidate in the upcoming assembly elections.Leading a retired life in his ancestral house in Ponnani in Malappuram district, his decision has created enough ripples in political circles.“I have been staying in the state for the last ten years and have been observing the political climate closely. Both fronts, the ruling LDF and the opposition UDF, are interested in furthering their organisations. The state has immense potential but development takes a backseat. If I can do something positive, I will be happy,” he said.Also read: After 11-month shutdown, Kashmir train services may be partially restoredWhen asked whether any national leader talked to him, he refused to comment. But party insiders said national party chief JP Nadda and Union home Minister Amit Shah were in touch with him.When asked whether it was a late decision, he evaded a direct reply, saying if his decision can inspire others he will be happy. “The pace of development is very slow in Kerala. I love taking up challenges. Personally, I feel more eminent people should join politics and you can serve people better here,” he said, adding that he was all for healthy politics, not mud-slinging or gimmicks.He said the BJP has a different perspective when it comes to development and it attracted him to the party. “The Prime Minister is taking the country fast ahead and it is the duty of all to strengthen his hands,” he said. Sreedharan said he will give more emphasis on development-related issues.The railway civil engineer acquired the sobriquet of the 'Metro man' of India after he oversaw the launch of the metro rail project - a showpiece of the modern urban infrastructure. He retired as the chief of Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) in 2011 but continues to be associated with many projects. He revolutionised the way urban India commutes.Sreedharan and former election commissioner TN Seshan were classmates in BEM High School, Palakkad. He graduated from the Government Engineering College, Kakinada and later joined the Indian Railways. Besides Delhi Metro, Lucknow Metro, Pambhan bridge in Rameswaram, Konkan railways and many prestigious projects carry his signature.In one of the earlier interviews with the HT, he said the underground metro line from Mumbai airport to Colaba was most challenging in his six-decade-long career. He was conferred several honours, including the Padma Shri and the Padma Vibushan.The ruling CPI(M) and the Congress said his political entry was unexpected. “It is his personal decision. But we feel he chose a wrong party in Kerala,” said Congress leader Mathew Kuzhalnadan. “His joining reiterates the fact people of calibre, credibility & concern for the development of the nation choose BJP,” tweeted Minister of State External Affairs V Muraleedharan.Political analyst J Prabash said his sudden entry will bring some kind of legitimacy to the BJP in Kerala. “A man of high integrity and status, he will be a good asset to the party. But in the highly political conscious state, it remains to be seen how it can translate into votes,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/metro-man-e-sreedharan-joins-bjp-says-party-can-do-justice-to-kerala-101613658191655.html
18-02-2021||India||Maharashtra NCP chief Jayant Patil tests positive for Covid-19||Maharashtra NCP chief and water resources minister Jayant Patil has tested positive for Covid-19. Patil was on a statewide tour called ‘NCP Parivar Samwad Yatra’ which began on January 28 in an effort to strengthen the party.On Thursday, he took to Twitter to confirm the news of his infection. “I have tested Covid-19 positive. Whilst I am doing fine, I am taking appropriate medical advice and hope to recover soon. I shall be undertaking my duties via video-conference. I request those who have come in contact with me recently, to be observant and self-isolate,” Patil said.The senior NCP leader concluded the first phase of his statewide tour on February 14 in Jalgaon district and was about to start the second leg from February 20. But now it is going to be delayed as doctors have advised him to take complete rest at least for eight days, said one of his aides.Patil has planned to visit each and every assembly constituency during his tour where he is discussing issues faced by the party workers and also attempting to resolve their problems. In the first phase, the water resources minister held meetings and public rallies in 82 assembly constituencies situated in 14 districts covering the Vidarbha region and parts of north Maharashtra by travelling around 3000-km.Patil is considered to be one of the most trusted aides of NCP supremo Sharad Pawar. In the run-up to the Lok Sabha elections, he was appointed head of the state NCP unit in April, 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-ncp-chief-jayant-patil-tests-positive-for-covid19-101613655273816.html
18-02-2021||India||'No link to farm stir': Narendra Tomar as BJP routed in Punjab local body polls||Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Thursday said it would be inappropriate to link the results of the municipal corporation elections in Punjab with the ongoing farmers’ protests against the three central farm laws. Tomar’s Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), whose government at the Centre enacted the laws, was wiped out in the elections while the ruling Congress, which has backed the agitation, registered a clean sweep.Also Read | Congress sweeps Punjab municipal polls: All you need to know“It is inappropriate to link the result of municipal corporation polls in Punjab with farmers’ agitation. We were weak in Punjab and used to fight polls in alliance with the Akali Dal. But we fought separately this time, which caused losses to us,” news agency ANI quoted Tomar as saying in Assam’s Guwahati. Tomar has been appointed as the BJP’s election in-charge in the poll-bound northeastern state, where the party has an incumbent government.It is inappropriate to link the result of municipal corporation polls in Punjab with farmers' agitation. We were weak in Punjab and used to fight polls in alliance with Akali Dal. But we fought separately this time, which caused losses to us: Union Agriculture Minister NS Tomar pic.twitter.com/zTZD1yqQTcThe BJP’s total wipeout in the Punjab local body elections has been linked directly with the three legislations, as the state has been the epicentre of the anti-farm law protests. It has also never been the saffron party's stronghold. The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), with whom the BJP governed Punjab as recently as early 2017, after which the Congress came to power, parted ways with it in protest against the laws. Harsimrat Kaur Badal, who was the lone SAD representative in the central government, resigned last September, just days after the passage of the laws.The Punjab local body elections saw the BJP suffer defeat even in Pathankot, which is considered its bastion. The party currently has three Members of Parliament (MP) from the northern state -- two in Lok Sabha and one in Rajya Sabha. Union minister Som Parkash, who, along with central colleagues Tomar and Piyush Goyal has been holding talks with the farmers’ unions, is the party’s Lok Sabha MP from Hoshiarpur, while actor Sunny Deol represents Gurdaspur in the Lower House. In both places, the party suffered heavy losses.Also Read | Congress steals the show in Majha, defeats BJP in PathankotOn Thursday, the protesting farmers held a four-hour nationwide rail blockade to put pressure on the central government to revoke the laws. Total 11 rounds of talks have failed to resolve the deadlock between the Centre and farmers’ unions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-link-to-farm-stir-narendra-tomar-as-bjp-routed-in-punjab-local-body-polls-101613654758232.html
18-02-2021||India||Uncertainty over Kailash Mansarovar Yatra, preparatory meetings yet to be held||By BD KasniyalUncertainty looms large over this year’s Kailash Mansarovar yatra as preparatory meetings are yet to be held and the district administration has not got any information from the Centre whether it will be held this year or not.The preparatory meetings for the yatra are held every year in January and February. The yatra from Lipulekh Pass commences every year from June to September. The yatra is managed by Kumaon Mandal Vikas Nigam with the help of the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) and the local administration. Last year, due to Covid-19 epidemic, the yatra was not held.RD Paliwal, in-charge district magistrate (DM) Pithoragarh, said they have not got any information about the yatra this year. “As of now, we don’t know whether it will be held or not,” he said.Also read: Puducherry political crisis - LG orders floor test on Feb 22Ashok Joshi, general manager, Kumaon Mandal Vikas Nigam (KMVN), said, generally, the preparatory meetings for the yatra are held in January and February every year. "First few meetings are convened by the Ministry of External Affairs in Delhi followed by a meeting in Pithoragarh which is attended by the representatives from the KMVN, the district administration and the ITBP. But this year, no meeting has been convened so far and we don’t know whether yatra will be held this year or not," said Joshi, General manager, KMVN.“After the first few meetings in Delhi, the schedule for the yatra is prepared and sent to all concerned agencies by February first week so that final preparations could be made from March when the snow starts melting on the track,” he said.According to KMVN officials, who look after matters related to Kailash Mansarovar Yatra in Uttarakhand, the sacred yatra costs around ₹1.75 lakh per pilgrim. The yatra is held every summer for 25 days, including 8 days in China.From Lipulekh route through Uttarakhand, the yatra is conducted in 18 batches with up to 60 pilgrims in each batch, while from Nathu La route through Sikkim, the yatra is held in 10 batches with 50 pilgrims each.The KMVN provides logistical support and facilities for the pilgrims through Uttarakhand route.In 2019, when the yatra was held the last time, 998 pilgrims had visited Kailash Mansarovar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uncertainty-over-kailash-mansarovar-yatra-preparatory-meetings-yet-to-be-held-101613655033587.html
18-02-2021||India||Odisha has potential to emerge as global steel, aluminium hub: CM Naveen Patnaik||Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik Thursday said the state has the potential to emerge as a global hub in steel, aluminium and other mining industries.Patnaik was speaking after inaugurating two iron ore mines at Guali and Jilling in Keonjhar district along with Union Minister of Coal and Mines Pralhad Joshi in virtual mode.These two mines were allocated to the state owned Odisha Mining Corporation (OMC).Patnaik said he is hopeful that the quick operationalisation of OMCs mines will meet the requirement of the iron ore market and bring positive changes in the supply situation.The two new mines will produce 12 million tons of iron ores per annum and the annual production of OMC will reach 20 million tons per annum, he said.While environmental clearance has been obtained for production of 6.28 million tons of iron ore from Jiling mines against its reserve of 79.12 MT, as much as 5.7 million tons of iron ore will be mined from Guali where 194.12 mt of iron ore is estimated to be reserved, official sources said.Patnaik said that Odisha has always taken early initiatives especially in the mining sector and supported reforms. Odisha government has rolled out helpdesk and feedback system under 5T initiative for ease of doing business in operation of i3MS Application and auction process of many major mines have been done with greater success in past few years.The chief minister said the Centre and the state governments need to work together to make Odishas huge potential in mining and mineral sectors.He thanked Joshi for allocating Guali and Jilling iron ore mines to the OMC.Joshi said that Odisha is rich in mines and minerals. The economy of both the state and country will grow if the work is done with coordination.Joshi said the state will receive ₹4,000- ₹5,000 crore revenue annually from these two mines and create employment opportunities. This apart, the two mines are expected to meet the requirement in the iron ore market.The coordination between the state and Centre will lay the foundation for the beginning of a new era in economic growth of the country, a statement released by the Chief Ministers Office said quoting Joshi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-has-potential-to-emerge-as-global-steel-aluminium-hub-cm-naveen-patnaik-101613655239105.html
18-02-2021||India||After 11-month shutdown, Kashmir train services may be partially restored||After remaining suspended for around 11 months owing to Covid-19, the Railways authorities are considering restoring the train services partially within Kashmir in the last week of February, officials said Thursday.The train in Kashmir is yet to be connected to the rest of the country and runs in a standalone route from Banihal, the gateway to Kashmir in the south, to Baramulla in north Kashmir – a distance of 137 km.Chief Area Manager, Northern Railways, Srinagar, Saqib Yousuf has written to the railway police expressing the transporter’s intention for partial restoration of the service between Banihal and Baramulla section.“In reference to the above mentioned subject, train services are to be partially restored in Banihal-Baramulla section from 22nd February 2021 onwards. Kindly inform the office of undersigned whether your office has any objection in restarting the passenger services between Banihal-Baramulla section,” said the official communication on February 17.Yousuf told Hindustan Times that they would be announcing their final decision on February 21. “We will finalize the plan by February 21 to decide whether the train will run on February 22,” he said.The rail services were suspended on March 19, 2020 owing to the novel coronavirus pandemic.In winter during normal days, there used to be 24 services of which eight were end to end while rest used to originate/terminate at central Kashmir’s Budgam railway station.People familiar with the developments said that the authorities are considering starting one to and fro service between Banihal and Baramulla to begin with.“Only one train service between Banihal and Baramulla and vice versa has been approved for the time being,” they said.The shutdown of train service has resulted in a lot of losses to the railway authorities. In Kashmir rail used to have 100 percent occupancy. In summers, every day, 35,000 to 40,000 commuters use train services while in winters around 25,000 people travel daily by train.The train service in the valley has often been marred by political developments. In August 2019, the service was suspended and subsequently restored after 100 days following the Centre’s decision to abrogate Article 370 of the Constitution and to bifurcate the erstwhile state into two Union territories.During 2010 agitation, the services came to a halt after the coaches were damaged. In 2016, after the killing of Hizbul commander Burhan Wani, the services remained suspended for over six months. It also remained shut for over two months during 2014 floods.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-11-month-shutdown-kashmir-train-services-may-be-partially-restored-101613653252759.html
18-02-2021||India||'Send some real tourists': Omar Abdullah stings foreign envoys' on visit to J-K||National Conference leader Omar Abdullah took a dig on Thursday at the visit of 24 foreign envoys to Kashmir, asking them to send real tourists from their countries to Jammu and Kashmir."Thank you for visiting Kashmir. Now please send some real tourists from your countries to visit J&K. #envoysvisitJK," the former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister said in a tweet.The envoys from European, Latin American and African countries arrived here on Wednesday on a two-day visit to Jammu and Kashmir for assessing the ground situation in the Union Territory following the abrogation of Article 370 of the Constitution in August, 2019.Senior Congress leader Saifuddin Soz described the visit of the envoys as a futile exercise on Wednesday.Most of the prominent mainstream politicians from the Union Territory have maintained a silence on the visit of the ambassadors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/send-some-real-tourists-omar-abdullah-stings-foreign-envoys-visit-to-kashmir-101613652842492.html
18-02-2021||India||After Rajasthan, petrol crosses ₹100-mark in Madhya Pradesh||After Rajasthan, petrol price on Thursday crossed the ₹100 per litre mark in Madhya Pradesh after fuel rates were increased for the tenth day in a row.Petrol price was hiked by 34 paise per litre and diesel by 32 paise, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers.While branded or additive-laced petrol, which attracts higher taxes, had crossed the ₹100-mark in some places in states like Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan, regular petrol crossed the physiological mark in Sriganganagar town of Rajasthan on Wednesday, and on Thursday it went past that mark in Madhya Pradesh.In Anuppur of Madhya Pradesh, petrol is priced at ₹100.25 per litre and diesel at ₹90.35.Fuel prices differ from state to state depending on the incidence of local taxes such as VAT and freight charges. Rajasthan levies the highest value-added tax (VAT) on petrol in the country, followed by Madhya Pradesh.Madhya Pradesh levies 33 per cent plus ₹4.5 a litre and 1 per cent cess on petrol. On diesel, it charges 23 per cent plus ₹3 per litre and 1 per cent cess.After Thursday's price increase, petrol in Delhi costs ₹89.88 per litre and diesel ₹80.27.In Mumbai, petrol price rose to ₹96.32 a litre and diesel was priced at ₹87.32.Oil Minister Dharmendra Pradhan had on Wednesday blamed output cut by oil-producing nations for the rally in international oil prices that have translated into higher retail rates in India.He urged Saudi Arabia and other global oil producers to ease production cuts, saying rising international oil prices are hurting economic recovery and demand.Demand recovery should take "primacy" over oil prices at least for the next few months, he had said.International oil prices have been on the boil since Saudi Arabia pledged additional voluntary output cuts of 1 million barrels per day in February and March under a deal between the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) and its allies including Russia, a group known as OPEC .This has resulted in oil prices rising to USD 63 per barrel, the highest level in more than a year."The rising crude oil prices during the last few weeks is hurting the fragile global economic recovery due to significant demand contraction, which might even mirror the impact of COVID-19 in its initial stages," Pradhan had said at the 11th IEA IEF OPEC Symposium on Energy Outlooks.India, he said, had contained the inflationary pressures on several fronts but not those impacted by crude prices."The price-sensitive Indian consumers are affected by rising petroleum product prices. It also affects demand growth, which could potentially impact the delicate aspirational economic growth trajectory not just in India but in other developing countries as well," he said.Also, on Wednesday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi blamed India's over 85 per cent import dependence for the "burden" the common man was facing.In Sriganganagar, petrol price soared to ₹100.49 a litre on Thursday.The record price in Rajasthan is despite the state government late last month cutting VAT on petrol and diesel by 2 per cent.VAT on petrol, after the cut, at 36 per cent plus ₹1.5 per litre road cess is still the highest in the country. On diesel, the state levies 26 per cent and ₹1.75 per litre road cess.Diesel in Sriganganagar is priced at 92.47 a litre.In 10 straight days, prices have gone up by ₹2.93 per litre for petrol and ₹3.14 per litre for diesel.The relentless hike in prices has been criticised by the opposition parties including the Congress, that has demanded an immediate cut in taxes to ease the burden on the common man.Pradhan last week had told Parliament that the government is not considering a reduction in excise duty to cool rates from their record highs.Central and state taxes make up for 60 per cent of the retail selling price of petrol and over 54 per cent of diesel.The union government levies ₹32.90 per litre of excise duty on petrol and ₹31.80 a litre on diesel.Retail petrol rates have risen by ₹20.29 per litre since mid-March 2020, after the government raised taxes by a record margin to mop up gains arising from fall in international oil prices. Diesel rates have gone up by ₹17.98.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-rajasthan-petrol-crosses-rs-100-mark-in-madhya-pradesh-101613652429275.html
18-02-2021||India||J&K Delimitation Commission holds first meeting, Farooq Abdullah and other NC leaders not present||The Delimitation Commission for Jammu and Kashmir held its first meeting on Thursday to seek suggestion/views on the process of delimitation in respect of the union territory.An overview on the process of delimitation based on the Jammu and Kashmir Reorganization Act, 2019 and Delimitation Act, 2002 was presented before the members.The meeting of the commission was attended by two of the five associated members - Union minister Jitendra Singh and BJP leader and MP from Jammu, Jugal Kishore Sharma.The two members appreciated the commission’s efforts and suggested that delimitation of constituencies should be practicable. They also said that regard should be given to physical features, existing boundaries of administrative units, facilities of communication and public convenience.The members suggested that special attention should be given to the difficult terrains while carrying out the delimitation exercise.The other three associated member of the commission - National Conference leaders Farooq Abdullah, Mohammad Akbar Lone, Hasnain Masoodi - skipped the meeting. They had already informed Delimitation Commission chairperson Justice (Retd) Ranjana Prakash Desai in a letter about their inability to be present for the meeting.They also urged Justice Desai to go ahead with the delimitation process as the Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation Act, 2019 is under judicial scrutiny."In our view, the Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation Act, 2019 is palpably unconstitutional and has been enacted in disregard and violation of mandate and spirit of the Constitution of India and therefore not to be acted upon," the MPs said in the letter.The Delimitation Commission for Jammu and Kashmir was constituted by the Centre on March 6 last year to redraw Lok Sabha and assembly constituencies of the union territory in accordance with the provisions of the Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation Act, 2019, which bifurcated the state into union territories of J&K and Ladakh.The union territory of Jammu and Kashmir came into being on October 31, 2019 after the state was reorganised.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jk-delimitation-commission-holds-first-meeting-farooq-abdullah-and-other-nc-leaders-not-present-101613652028113.html
18-02-2021||India||Rail Roko: Uttarakhand farmers stage protests in Haridwar and US Nagar||Participating in the nationwide Rail Roko agitation, farmers in Uttarakhand’s Haridwar and US Nagar districts staged protests on Thursday, demanding the withdrawal of three farm laws enacted by the Centre. However, there was no disruption of rail services.Farmer unions had given a call for a four-hour Rail Roko agitation across the country on Thursday as a part of their campaign against the three farm laws.In Haridwar district, farmers staged an hour-long protest at Roorkee railway track, demanding the rollback of these newly enacted laws. After the arrival of district administration officials, the protesting farmers agreed to stop the agitation and submitted a memorandum to the sub- divisional magistrate. Under the aegis of the Bharatiya Kisan Union, Uttarakhand Kisan Morcha, Kisan Kamgar Morcha and Akhil Bharatiya Kisan Union, the farmers staged a protest at the Roorkee railway station.No other incident of farmers stopping trains on railway tracks was reported from the district. Trains operated normally with only one train --- the Haridwar-Bandra train arriving fifty minutes late, railway officials said.The police tried to stop the farmers from reaching the railway tracks at platform number 1 but after heated arguments, the farmers went ahead and staged a sit-in protest on the tracks.Bharatiya Kisan Union Garhwal division president Sanjay Chaudhary while addressing the farmers said that until the Centre rolls back the three farm laws passed in September 2020, they would not give up their agitation.Haridwar Railway Station superintendent MK Singh said that arrival and departure of trains was normal on the Haridwar-Laksar-Roorkee line barring the late arrival of the 9020 Haridwar-Bandra Express.According to Superintendent of Haridwar Rural Police, Padmendra Dobhal,, the farmers staged a protest for an hour and then handed over a memorandum to SDM Pooran Singh following which they ended their protestIn US Nagar district, farmers staged a protest on the railway track in Bazpur area. Many farmers also protested near a road toll plaza on Kichha road for five hours to express solidarity with Kisan Sanyukat Morcha’s call.Tajendra Singh Virk, president Terai Kisan Sangthan said, “Farmers protested for the withdrawal of the three farm laws. We want to open the eyes of the Modi government.”“Farmer leader Rakesh Tikait and other farmer leaders will address a Mahapanchayat to be held here on March 1. We will gather more than 30,000 farmers across US Nagar district for the Mahapanchayat,” said Virk.There was no disruption of train services in the district as they were suspended in the region due to the Covid-19 outbreak.In Almora, the Uttarakhand Kisan Sabha held a public meeting at Gandhi Park in support of the Rail Roko agitation and demanded withdrawal of the new farmer laws.In Nainital, an alert was sounded by the authorities. However, there was no incident of train stopping in the district.Randeep Kumar, in-charge Kathgodam Railway Police Force (RPF) said, “An alert was sounded for the Rail Roko agitation. Accordingly, we deployed 23 personnel at 15 gates. Also, leave of RPF personnel was cancelled,” he said.“There was no protest here under Rail Roko. Nevertheless, as a precaution, the GRP force had also been deployed along with the RPF,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rail-roko-uttarakhand-farmers-stage-protests-in-haridwar-and-us-nagar-101613651097241.html
18-02-2021||India||Gender gap in employability improving with Indian digital revolution: Survey||Given the strategic changes that occurred during the pandemic year, a study revealed that youth employability has reduced due to growing demand for technology but the employability of women has improved with digital revolution.The youth employability stood at 45.9% consisting of highly employable resources, that is significantly lower than 46.2% in the previous year, according to the India Skills Report 2021 by talent management specialist Wheebox, in partnership with Taggd, CII, AICTE, AIU and UNDP.The study found that software and hardware knowledge is becoming a growing demand in industries ranging from travel and tourism to energy and manufacturing.This has fuelled a decline in employability among students for the second year in a row, after a jump in employability witnessed between 2016-2018, it added.However, the employability of women has improved to 46.8% compared to 45.91% of men, it added.“Finally Gender Gap in Employability is improving with the Indian Digital revolution. One great structural change that we found is that women participation is higher than in the previous 5 years. Women consist of 36% of the workforce, while men comprise 64% of all workers," Wheebox Founder and CEO Nirmal Singh said.The highest percentage of women in any sector was recorded in the Banking and Financial Services Industry (BFSI) making up to 46% of the employable talent in this industry, he said adding that the trend is one of the most positive ones for the future, especially with the Work from Home possibilities, the study added.Meanwhile, Singh stated that the skill gap that emerged with the Covid-19 pandemic has given rise to Computer Courses, Language Classes and Online Skill Assessments."Establishing the direct correlation of technology with employability in India is vital to realising the path forward. In fact, the employability landscape of India is evolving with technology that makes workplaces more collaborative and operations more efficient. The pandemic revealed how central technology is to everyday lifestyle,” Wheebox Founder and CEO Singh added.The India Skills Report, a combination of an assessment of final year 65,000 candidates across India, who appeared for the Wheebox National Employability Test (WNET) and over 150 corporates across 15 industries who participated in the India Hiring Intent survey.Further, the study revealed that Delhi-NCR, Odisha and Uttar Pradesh have the highest pool of employable talent in the country.Mumbai is the city with the most highly employable resources with 70% of the test takers scoring above 60% followed by Hyderabad, it stated.It also found out that candidates from Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh and Karnataka had the most of the resource pool with most of the employable talent while Hyderabad, Bangalore and Pune were the cities with most employable talent.On hiring intent, the study revealed that India will be hiring most in the banking and financial sector along with IT and ITeS led businesses, closely followed by Health Sector, Automotive, Retail Segment, Logistics and Core Sector including Energy.While digital connectivity and internet-based business will remain the most important base for hiring and expansion, the job markets will be led by states like Delhi-NCR, Karnataka and Maharashtra, it said.Additionally, companies across India have a hiring intent of 19% in 2021, compared to 10% last year, a clear reflection of the positive changes in the job landscape this year, it said.Notably, the highest employable percentage was found in the age group between 18-21 at 40%, indicating the structural changes at the core of the employability landscape of India, the study added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gender-gap-in-employability-improving-with-indian-digital-revolution-survey-101613650685191.html
18-02-2021||India||Flipkart signs MoU with Tamil Nadu government to boost small-scale businesses||E-commerce marketplace Flipkart has signed a memorandum of understanding with Tamil Nadu MSME Trade and Investment Promotion Bureau to bring local artisans, weavers, craftsmen and SMBs into the e-commerce fold.The partnership under the Flipkart Samarth programme will enable Tamil Nadu's local artisans, weavers, craftsmen and smaller industries to showcase their hallmark products.Anu George, Industries Commissioner and Director of Industries and Commerce, said there are 294 industrial cooperative societies functioning under the department. Many of them are involved in production of handicraft items including GI registered products."The MoU will provide these societies with a new vigour and link them to a national market for their products," he said.The state government recently announced MSME Policy 2021, which has set a target to attract new investments worth ₹2 lakh crore in the sector by 2025 and create additional employment opportunities for 20 lakh people.Rajneesh Kumar, Chief Corporate Affairs Officer of Flipkart Group, said Flipkart Samarth is a nationwide initiative which aims to help skilled local artisan communities set up their business on the Flipkart marketplace in an efficient, transparent and cost-effective manner.The programme seeks to break entry barriers for local artisans and weavers by extending incubation support, which includes benefits in the form of seamless onboarding, cataloging, marketing, account management, business insights and warehousing support."This will create avenues to increase business and trade inclusion opportunities for these very important segments of society," he said in a statement on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/flipkart-signs-mou-with-tamil-nadu-government-to-boost-small-scale-businesses-101613651098632.html
18-02-2021||India||Puducherry political crisis: LG orders floor test on Feb 22||Amid political turmoil in Puducherry, Lieutenant Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan on Thursday ordered a floor test to ascertain the majority of the ruling Congress-led coalition on the floor of the House. The floor test, the LG said, is to be done by 5pm on February 22.In an official statement, the LG noted that both the ruling coalition and Opposition have a strength of 14 members each in the legislative assembly, thus necessitating a floor test in the 30-member legislative assembly, where 16 is the magic number. As per the statement, voting shall take place by show of hands and the proceedings will be videographed."The floor test in pursuance of the above directions shall be concluded by 5 pm on 22.02.2021 and the proceedings shall not be adjourned/delayed or suspended at any cost," the statement said.The development came just hours after Soundararajan took oath as Kiran Bedi’s successor and took charge as the Lieutenant Governor of the Union territory where legislative assembly elections are likely to take place in April-May. Bedi, who was removed from office in a sudden move Tuesday night, was frequently engaged in a tussle with chief minister V Narayansamy.Puducherry has been plunged into a political crisis following resignations of Congress MLAs from the Narayanasamy-led government. This has brought down the party’s strength in the legislative assembly to ten, including the speaker, while its ally Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) has three members in the legislative assembly.Since January, four Congress MLAs have resigned, two of whom have joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/puducherry-governor-orders-floor-test-in-the-legislative-assembly-on-feb-22-101613651146734.html
18-02-2021||India||Maoists in Chhattisgarh kill villager suspected of being police informer||Maoists killed a villager on suspicion of being a police informer in Rajnandgaon district which comes under the newly formed newly formed MMC zone (Maharashtra-Madhya Pradesh-Chhattisgarh) of CPI (Maoist), the police said on Thursday.Police said that around a dozen Maoists came to Khursipar Khurd village under Bortalav police station area looking for one Munna Verma on Wednesday evening.The Maoists then abducted Verma and later shot him in the jungle, police said.The police also claimed that leaflets and pamphlets were recovered from the spot in which the Maoists alleged that Verma was acting as a police informer.Verma is the third person to be killed by Maoists in the last 24 days in two villages of Rajnandgaon district on suspicion of being a police informer.On January 24, Ramsay Gadve (30) a resident of Morarpani village was killed by sharp-edged weapons by a group of Maoists and a day later, Inder Sai Mandavi (75), a resident of Kamkheda village was beaten to death by the Maoists. Both were relatives of panchayat representatives.The police estimate that there are about 200 armed cadres of CPI (Maoist) working in the MMC zone. Police say that since operations against Maoists have increased in Bastar, the left-wing extremists were moving towards the MMC zone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maoists-in-chhattisgarh-kill-villager-suspected-of-being-police-informer-101613650731913.html
18-02-2021||India||No permission given for Tikait's rally, says Yavatmal collector||Amid growing number of coronavirus cases, the administration in eastern Maharashtra's Yavatmal district has not yet given permission for a `Maha Panchayat' of farmer leader Rakesh Tikait on February 20."Looking at the increase in coronavirus cases over the last two days, the Superintendent of Police has given a report that permission should not be given," Yavatmal Collector MD Singh said."Also, we have ordered lockdown in the district from tonight, so we have not given permission for the rally," he told PTI.Tikait, one of the leaders of farmers' agitation against the new farm laws on Delhi borders, was scheduled to address the rally at Azad Maidan ground in Yavatmal city on Saturday.In Nagpur, Sanyukt Kisan Morcha leaders Shrikanth Taral and Sandip Gidde, organizers of the Maha Panchayat, said they have applied to the administration for permission afresh and promised to follow all norms for Covid-19 prevention. PTI CO||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-permission-given-for-tikait-s-rally-says-yavatmal-collector-101613649356533.html
18-02-2021||India||Commercial markets across India to remain shut on Feb 26 due to 'Bharat Bandh'||Traders' body CAIT on Thursday said all commercial markets across the country will remain closed on February 26 in view of its 'Bharat Bandh' call demanding a review of the provisions of the goods and services tax (GST) regime.The Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) said dharnas (protests) will be held nationwide in 1,500 places demanding the Centre, state governments and the GST Council to keep in abeyance the "draconian" provisions of GST.It also called for a review of the GST system and its tax slabs to simplify and rationalise it for easier compliance by traders.Addressing a press conference, CAIT Secretary-General Praveen Khandelwal said it is also talking to the government on this issue.He said the All India Transporters Welfare Association (AITWA) will also support CAIT's Bharat Bandh call and hold a 'Chakka Jam' on February 26."All commercial markets across the country will remain closed and protest dharnas will be organised in different cities of all states," Khandelwal said adding that along with CAIT, over 40,000 traders' associations across the country will support the Bandh.He observed that voluntary compliance is the key to a successful GST regime, as it will encourage more people to join the indirect tax system, increase tax base and boost revenue.Khandelwal said that almost 950 amendments have been made so far to GST rules in the past four years. Issues related to glitches in GST portal and the continuous increase in compliance burden are the major lacunae in the tax regime, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/commercial-markets-across-india-to-remain-shut-on-feb-26-due-to-bharat-bandh-101613649572369.html
18-02-2021||India||Congress' 'Kisan panchayat' by Priyanka Gandhi in Mathura postponed to Feb 23||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra's Kisan panchayat' scheduled in Uttar Pradesh's Mathura district on February 19 has been postponed to February 23, due to the demise of former Union Minister Captain Satish Sharma."Kisan Panchayat to be held in Mathura on 19 February 2021 has been postponed to 23 February due to the untimely demise of Captain Satish Sharma ji. Priyanka Gandhi Vadra will be attending his funeral tomorrow to be held at Dayanand Mukti Dham, Lodhi Road," read an official statement from the office of Priyanka Gandhi Vadra."Captain Satish Sharma was a dear friend who stood by the family through thick and thin. People of Amethi and Raebareli will always remember him as a people's person who stood by them during difficult times. While expressing her sorrow, Congress General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said that she and her family have lost a true friend," the statement added.Former union minister and Congress leader Captain Satish Sharma passed away in Goa on Wednesday. He was 73.Sharma was Union Minister of Petroleum and Natural Gas from 1993 to 1996.Earlier, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra addressed the Kisan panchayat in the Bijnor district of Uttar Pradesh on February 15.Earlier on February 10, the Congress leader visited Saharanpur to attend Kisan Mahapanchayat. Addressing the Kisan Mahapanchayat, she alleged that the new farm laws are designed to help billionaires.Farmers have been protesting at different borders of the national capital since November 26 last year against the three newly enacted farm laws: Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-kisan-panchayat-by-priyanka-gandhi-in-mathura-postponed-to-feb-23-101613649633139.html
18-02-2021||India||Rail Roko hits train traffic at several places in Rajasthan||Rail traffic on the Delhi-Mumbai route passing through Kota railway division in Rajasthan was halted since 12 pm on Thursday as agitating farmers demanding the repeal of three farm laws blocked the track in Gamach region of Bundi district during a countrywide rail roko programme.There were also reports of trains being stopped and farmers’ demonstrations at railway tracks and on platforms in different parts of Rajasthan.Farmers led by Naresh Meena also blocked a railway crossing at Jagatpura in Jaipur while several farmers and other allied organisations demonstrated at Gandhi Nagar and Durgapura railway stations in Jaipur.On the call of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), farmers led by Dulichand Borda, Mahendra Neh and others demonstrated against the three contentious farm laws of the Delhi-Mumbai railway track in Gamach region of Bundi from noon. Railway Protection Force (RPF) and Government Railway Police (GRP) personnel were deployed along the railway track to maintain law and order.Railway authorities in Kota railway division also halted traffic on Delhi-Mumbai railway track owing to the farmers’ protest.When asked about the disruption in railway traffic on Delhi-Mumbai railway track from Senior Divisional Commercial Manager, Kota Railway Division, Ajay Kumar Pal, said, "Railway traffic has been halted as precautionary measures on intelligence input to prevent any untoward incident".He said while three passenger trains were stopped at Kota railway station, one train was halted at Dadhdevi in Kota, one train at Sawai Madhopur and nearly 10 goods trains in Kota."Adequate security personnel of the RPF have been deployed to prevent any untoward incident", he said.Asked about when the railway traffic would resume, he said that resumption of railway traffic would depend on intelligence input about the agitation.Farmers insisted that their agitation was peaceful.“We are carrying out peaceful agitation at railway tracks and will not damage railway property,” Dulichand Borda said.Farmers’ unions also stopped an intercity express train at Sawai Madhopur and protested at Durgapura and Gandhi Nagar railway stations in Jaipur.In Gandhi Nagar farmers got into an argument after climbing atop a goods train and in Durgapura they tried to stop a train.In Bharatpur, farmers staged a protest inside the railway station, accusing the central government of exploiting them.There was heavy deployment of police on rail routes and stations. At many places, police prevented farmers from going to railway tracks.Farmer leader Manudev Sinsini said the agitation will continue till the central government agrees to withdraw the farm laws.(With inputs from Suresh Foujdar in Bharatpur)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rail-roko-hits-train-traffic-at-several-places-in-rajasthan-101613647928505.html
18-02-2021||India||Farmers stage 'Rail roko' protests in Aurangabad, Maharashtra against farm laws||Members of a farmers' union staged a 'rail roko' at Lasur railway station in Maharashtra's Aurangabad district on Thursday to protest against the Centre's three farm laws.The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of farmer unions, which has been spearheading the protest at Delhi borders, had announced this nationwide rail blockade to press for its demand to repeal the legislations.At least 12 persons were detained that the agitation staged by Lal Bawta Shet Majur Union at Lasur station, around 40 km from Aurangabad, an official said."The Jalna-Mumbai Janshatabdi train was stopped at the station for around 30 minutes. We have detained around 12 agitators and further probe is underway," the official from the railway police said.The agitation commenced at around 9 am and farmers from 12 villages participated in the protest, president of the union Ram Bharti said.Similarly, the Akhil Bharatiya Kisan Sabha (AIKS) staged a protest outside Aurangabad railway station.The agitation, which started at 12 pm, was led by AIKS' district president Bhagwan Bhojane, an official said.Thousands of farmers have been protesting since late November at Delhi's borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, demanding a rollback of the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; and Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-stage-rail-roko-protests-in-aurangabad-maharashtra-against-farm-laws-101613648072200.html
18-02-2021||India||Tamil Nadu custodial death case: Trial begins after eight months||The trial in the alleged custodial killings of P Jeyaraj and his son, J Bennicks, began on Thursday at a district court in Tamil Nadu’s Madurai even as their family has sought speedy justice. The two were picked up in June for allegedly keeping their mobile shop open beyond Covid-19 induced lockdown timings and tortured in custody.Lawyer Rajiv Rufus said nine accused were produced before the court on day one and the judge asked the public prosecutor to furnish details of the charges before adjourning the proceedings until February 22.Jeyaraj’s daughter, J Percys, said they want a speedy trial within two months and justice so that such killings are prevented. Percys and her mother, Selvarani, have filed a petition in the high court seeking the speedy trial. The trial in the case was to begin in November but was delayed as the accused were previously produced before Madurai’s chief judicial magistrate amid jurisdictional issues.The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), which took over the probe into the case in July, has charged the nine for wrongful confinement and murder.Selvarani, who lived with her husband and son, has since moved to Percys’s home in Puliyangudi, where the Tamil Nadu government has offered her a job. “It is still so painful for us. We have not told our mother about the details of the charge sheet. No one will be able to bear such details. She still has sleepless nights,” said Percys.The CBI’s charge sheet last year detailed the torture the two allegedly underwent for six hours in June at the Sathankulam police station. They were allegedly made to bend over a wooden table, wearing only their undergarments. Police allegedly beat them with lathis. A magistrate’s report earlier said their blood was found on the lathis, a table, and police station walls.Police picked up Jeyaraj on June 19 from his shop. Bennicks followed him to the police station to seek his father’s release. Selvaranai last saw her husband an hour before he was taken into custody when he had come home with a packet of milk and told her that he would return with Bennicks and have tea together.Selvarani last spoke to her son and husband over the phone when they were being taken to a court the next day where the magistrate did not question their visible injuries. Bennicks succumbed to his injuries on June 22, and Jeyaraj the next morning.The family was hoping to have Bennicks married by the end of the year. A close-knit middle-class family, they would speak to each other every day since they lived in different cities. Jeyaraj would call his three daughters thrice daily. “Now, I follow the same routine,” said Selvarani. “We cannot get them back, but we must get justice. Custodial deaths should end with my husband and son. It should not happen to anybody else.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-custodial-death-case-trial-begins-after-eight-months-101613647994039.html
18-02-2021||India||'Rail roko agitation passed off without any untoward incident': Indian Railways||The four-hour-long 'rail roko' agitation by farmers against the Centre's three agriculture laws ended without any untoward incident, the Indian Railways has said."Rail roko agitation passed off without any untoward incident. There was negligible or minimal impact on running of the trains across the country," it said, adding that train movement in all zones was back to normal."Train movement in all zones is normal now. Few trains were stopped in some areas but now train operation is normal," the Indian Railways said.The Railways deployed 20 additional companies of RPSF troops across the country, with focus on Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal, ahead of the protest which was organised to pressurise the government into repealing the laws.Director General of Railway Protection Force Arun Kumar on Wednesday said, "I appeal to everyone to maintain peace. We will be liaising with district administrations and will have a control room in place.""We will gather intelligence. States such as Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal, and some other areas will be our focus. We have deployed 20 companies of the Railway Protection Special Force (RPSF) in these areas," he added.The protest was announced last week by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), the umbrella body of farmer unions spearheading the agitation.Earlier on Thursday, the leader of Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), Rakesh Tikait, had assured the public that the agitation will be done in a peaceful manner."Rail roko protest will begin at 12 pm and go on till 3-4 pm. Trains are not plying anyway. It'll be done peacefully. We'll provide water, milk, lassi and fruits to people who are stranded. We will inform them about our issues," he had said."Today we have two rallies in Hisar and I am going there. I am going to a rally in Mumbai tomorrow. We will hold rallies all over the country. Farmers are suffering everywhere. The only way to get rid of the problems is to give legal backing to MSP," he added.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rail-roko-agitation-passed-off-without-any-untoward-incident-indian-railways-101613647254341.html
18-02-2021||India||News updates from HT: Banks to deduct TDS at higher rates for senior citizens and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Senior citizens stare at TDS deduction by banks at higher rateBanks may start deducting tax deducted at source (TDS) at higher rates as the newly proposed TDS rule doesn’t provide for any exception in cases in which a person is exempted from filing his/her income tax return (ITR). Read moreStep inside Janhvi Kapoor, Khushi Kapoor and dad Boney's home which is an eclectic dreamA pretty room that reflects their personality is a dream for most women and girls. Even sisters Janhvi Kapoor and Khushi Kapoor have given a beautiful look to their room at their house in Mumbai. Read moreFitness enthusiast Anil Kapoor's latest sprinting spree inspires fansDil Dhadakne Do actor Anil Kapoor may be aged 64-years-old on paper but his physique and taut skin make him look as young as any of the younger generation of actors, if not better than them. Read moreWoman gets trapped under moving train in Haryana. Watch how she escapes unhurtA woman saved herself from getting run over by lying down on the railway track beneath a moving train. A video of the scary incident left people with thoughts after it was shared on Twitter by ANI. Read moreWatch: ‘Rail roko’ in Punjab, Haryana & other states against farm lawsFarmers protested in several parts of the country as part of the ‘rail roko’ call given by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha. From Punjab to Patna, farmers were seen squatting on railway tracks demanding withdrawal of the farm laws . Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-banks-to-deduct-tds-at-higher-rates-for-senior-citizens-and-all-the-latest-news-101613646026556.html
18-02-2021||India||Regional countries back PM Modi's suggestions to boost cooperation in South Asia||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday proposed five measures to prepare countries in South Asia and the Indian Ocean region to cope with future medical emergencies, including a special visa regime for medical personnel and technology-driven steps to counter pandemics.Modi made the suggestions in a video message to a virtual workshop on the theme “Covid-19 Management: Experience, good practices and way forward” organised by India for health officials and experts from the eight members of the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC) and Mauritius and Seychelles.Representatives from Pakistan participated in a meeting organised by India after a long gap, though the country was part of a meet of SAARC leaders convened by Modi in March last year to forge a coordinated response to the Covid-19 pandemic.People familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity that all the countries, including Pakistan, backed the five measures and proposed a structured discussion on regional cooperation to take them forward.Barring Pakistan, which hasn’t requested vaccines from India, the other participating countries thanked India for supplies of vaccines, medicines and equipment amid the pandemic, the people said.Noting that health cooperation within the region over the past year has resulted in significant achievements, Modi said the time had come to “think of raising our ambition further”.He suggested the 10 countries should consider creating a special visa scheme for doctors and nurses so that medical personnel can travel quickly within the region during health emergencies, while the civil aviation ministries should coordinate on a regional air ambulance agreement for medical contingencies.“Can we create a regional platform for collating, compiling and studying data about the effectiveness of Covid-19 vaccines among our population? Can we similarly create a regional network for promoting technology-driven epidemiology for preventing future pandemics?” Modi said.Looking beyond the pandemic, Modi suggested the countries share their successful public health policies and schemes. He said India’s Aayushman Bharat and Jan Arogya schemes could be case studies for the region.The workshop was chaired by India’s health secretary Rajesh Bhushan. The other countries – Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, the Maldives, Mauritius, Nepal, Pakistan, Seychelles and Sri Lanka – were represented by health officials and head of technical teams in-charge of Covid-19 management.Modi pointed out countries in the region met the challenges of Covid-19 with a coordinated response after “many experts voiced special concern about our densely populated region”. South Asia was among the first regions to come together in recognising the threat and committing to fight it together, he said.The countries in the region created a Covid-19 emergency response fund and shared resources, equipment and knowledge. “This spirit of collaboration is a valuable takeaway from this pandemic. Through our openness and determination, we have managed to achieve one of the lowest fatality rates in the world,” Modi said.“Today the hopes of our region and the world are focused on rapid deployment of vaccines. In this too, we must maintain the same cooperative and collaborative spirit,” he added.Modi said collaboration on healthcare and medical issues could “become the pathway for greater regional cooperation among us in other areas too”.In an apparent message to Pakistan, Modi said: “After all, we share so many common challenges – climate change, natural disasters, poverty, illiteracy, and social and gender imbalances – but we also share the power of centuries-old cultural and people-to-people linkages. If we focus on all that unites us, our region can overcome not only the present pandemic but our other challenges too.”Modi said if the 21st century is to be the Asian century, it “cannot be without greater integration among the countries of South Asia and the Indian Ocean island countries”. He added, “The spirit of regional solidarity that you have shown during the pandemic has proven that such integration is possible.”India has so far supplied more than 23 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines to more than 20 countries around the world and the government has plans to roll out more doses to different regions of the world in the coming weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-calls-for-cooperation-among-south-asian-states-on-medical-emergencies-101613645893870.html
18-02-2021||India||At workshop with 10 nations, PM Modi stresses on regional cooperation and integration||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday called for greater integration among South Asian countries as well as creation of a regional air ambulance pact. He said this while addressing a workshop on coronavirus management titled ‘Covid-19 Management: Experience, Good Practices and Way Forward’.Nine countries - Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Nepal, Sri Lanka, Pakistan, Maldives, Mauritius and Seychelles - participated in the event.PM Modi gave Hindi a miss and switched over to English while addressing the workshop. After starting off with a namaste, PM Modi praised India’s response in tackling the Covid-19 pandemic.“We created the Covid-19 emergency fund to meet the immediate cost of fighting the pandemic. We shared our resources, medicines, PPE, testing equipment, and above all we shared the most important commodity-knowledge," the Prime Minister said.Talking about the regional air ambulance system, PM Modi said, “Can our civil aviation ministries create a regional air ambulance agreement for medical contingencies? Can we create a regional platform for collating, compiling, data about the effectiveness of the Covid-19 vaccines among our population? Can we similarly create a regional network for promoting technology driven epidemiology for preventing future pandemics?”PM Modi highlighted two of his government’s flagship health schemes - Ayushman Bharat and Jan Arogya - as useful case studies for other countries.“Beyond Covid can we also save our successful public health policies and schemes. From India our Ayushman Bharat and Jan Arogya scheme may be useful case studies for our friends in the region. Such collaborations can become the pathway for greater regional collaboration amongst us in other areas too” he said at the online workshopThe Prime Minister ended his speech by urging nations to focus on what unites all the countries so that the South Asian region can come together to fight against other common ills like poverty, climate crisis, and illiteracy. He added that for 21st century to be the Asian century, greater integration is needed for the countries of South Asia and Indian Ocean Island.“If we focus on all that unites us our region can overcome not only the present pandemic but our other challenges too,” PM Modi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-workshop-with-10-nations-pm-modi-stresses-on-regional-cooperation-and-integration-101613645613842.html
18-02-2021||India||'We will harvest as well as protest,' says Rakesh Tikait, vows to continue stir over farm laws||Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait on Thursday asserted that the government should not be under the misconception that farmers' protest will end with the onset of the farming season. "We will harvest as well as protest," said Tikait, in a warning to central government, ANI reported. "If they insist, then we will burn our crops. They shouldn't think that protest will end in two months," the new agency further quoted Tikait as saying.Since the last week of November, thousands of farmers mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh are camping at Delhi borders demanding Centre to three farm laws passed by Parliament. In the latet bid to intensify their protests, the farmers have given a call for 'rail roko' on Thursday. As per the statement by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of farmer unions which is spearheading the protest, the four-hour-long strike will continue till 4 pm.Click here for live updates on famrers' protestMeanwhile, Delhi Police have tightened the security in the national capital in view of the rail blockade. Entry and exit at several metro stations, including at Tikri Border, one of the epicentres of the farmers’ agitation, were also closed under the safety measure. The Tikri Border metro station is just near the farmers’ protest site.Earlier, farmer unions had called a "chakka jam" on February 6 and a "tractor parade" in Delhi on January 26, during which a section of protesters clashed with police, overturned vehicles while some hoisted a religious flag from the ramparts of the Red Fort.Also Read | Rail roko: Local train service unaffected in MaharashtraFarmers are agitating against the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.Calling the agriculture reforms anti-farmers, the protesters are demanding a repeal of the laws. Agitating farmers claim that the new laws will weaken the minimum support price (MSP) system, despite the Centre seeking to assure them in vain that the MSP system was here to stay and the new laws would only provide more options for farmers to sell their produce.The government has held several rounds of talks with the leaders of the farmers but it failed to bring any resolution to the matter so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-will-harvest-as-well-as-protest-says-rakesh-tikait-vows-to-continue-stir-over-farm-laws-101613645078765.html
18-02-2021||India||Shringla urges greater interaction among strategic affairs analysts of India, Russia||Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla on Thursday highlighted the unique nature of India's close and trust-based partnership with Russia, as he called for greater interaction among the think tanks and strategic affairs analysts of the two nations in line with their strong comprehensive bilateral cooperation.Shringla arrived in Moscow on Tuesday on his first foreign trip this year and called on Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov and held wide ranging talks with Deputy Foreign Minister Igor Morgulov on Wednesday.On Thursday, he exchanged views with leading Russian academics and strategic thinkers on the India-Russia relationship in view of the fast-changing geopolitical landscape."Foreign Secretary @harshvshringla called for greater interaction among the think tanks and strategic affairs analysts of #India and #Russia in line with our strong comprehensive bilateral cooperation," the Indian embassy in Russia tweeted."Foreign Secretary @harshvshringla exchanged views with leading Russian academics and strategic thinkers on #India-#Russia relationship in view of the fast-changing geopolitical landscape. FS highlighted the unique nature of our close and trust-based partnership with Russia," the mission said.Shringla on Wednesday had "fruitful and productive" meetings with top Russian diplomats on bilateral issues as well as regional and global issues of mutual interest and the two sides discussed ways to further strengthen the bilateral Special and Privileged Strategic Partnership.He also had "excellent discussion" with Russia’s Deputy Foreign Minister Morgulov on bilateral issues, cooperation in multilateral organisations as well as regional and global issues of mutual interest.Speaking at the Russian Diplomatic Academy on Wednesday Shringla said: "I had excellent meetings at the Russian Foreign Ministry, with Mr Morgulov, where we reviewed our bilateral relations, including forthcoming high-level exchanges."We also discussed India-Russia cooperation in multilateral forums and exchanged views on issues of regional and international importance," he said.During Shringla's meeting with Foreign Minister Lavrov, he conveyed greetings of External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar."I just called on Mr Lavrov and it was an opportunity to listen to him. He spoke on Russia India relations, that it is very close, very special, very privileged, and strategic, so these were his words and for me, this was very instructive to listen to a personality like him.""Given the significance, we attach to the India-Russia Special and Privileged Strategic Partnership, it is only fitting that Moscow is the destination for my first visit abroad in 2021," he said.In his address to the budding diplomats of the Diplomatic Academy, the foreign secretary emphasised that a multipolar world and multipolar Asia are not possible without India and Russia.Shringla’s two-day official visit will add momentum to the India-Russia special and privileged strategic partnership and exchange views on topical issues of regional and international importance. The trip is also expected to lay the groundwork regarding the high-level bilateral visits planned for this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shringla-urges-greater-interaction-among-strategic-affairs-analysts-of-india-russia-101613642293747.html
18-02-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi says UP govt crushing honour of women, human rights||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday took on the Uttar Pradesh government over reports of crimes against women in the state and accused it of crushing human rights.Gandhi's tweet comes after two girls of the same family were found dead in their field in Unnao district on Wednesday evening. A third girl is critical in a hospital in Kanpur."Not only of the Dalit society, but the UP government is also crushing women honour and human rights. But they should remember that I and the entire Congress Party stand as the voice of the victims and will continue to provide justice to them," Gandhi said.Earlier in the day, locals in Unnao opposed the burial of the two minor girls demanding their bodies should first be handed over to the families.The villagers also protested the detention of four family members of the victims and sought a CBI inquiry into the deaths."The family members of the three girls took them to the common health clinic in the district in an unconscious state. Two of the girls were declared brought dead by the doctors, and one was referred to a higher center for treatment. Prima facie they show symptoms of poisoning," said Anand Kulkarni, Superintendent of Police, Unnao.The SP said there were no injury marks on the bodies of the girls, and the police are waiting for the post-mortem reports to determine their cause of death."We are trying to reconstruct the crime scene to get to the bottom of the matter. The investigation is underway. Police have deployed six teams to look into the matter, the villagers are being interrogated," Kulkarni added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-says-up-govt-crushing-honour-of-women-human-rights-101613628686072.html
18-02-2021||India||One killed, two hurt in two accidents on Mumbai-Pune Expressway||One person was killed and while two others were injured in two separate accidents on Mumbai-Pune Expressway in Raigad in the early hours of Thursday, police said.In the first accident, three vehicles piled up near Khalapur around 3.30 am. The driver of a truck heading for Mumbai lost control of the vehicle and rammed into two buses which were moving ahead of it. Two persons in the buses suffered minor injuries.In the second accident, an SUV hit an unknown vehicle near Rasayani around 6 am.“The SUV was also coming towards Mumbai from Pune. While crossing the Rasayni area, it hit an unknown vehicle which was also coming in the same direction,” said a police officer from Rasayani police station.“There were two persons inside the SUV and one of them suffered severe injuries. He was later declared dead in a nearby hospital. The other person escaped unhurt. We are yet to get all the details about them,” he said.On Tuesday, five people died and at least five others were injured in a five vehicle pile-up on the expressway in Raigad in the early hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/one-killed-two-hurt-in-two-accidents-on-mumbai-pune-expressway-101613642281546.html
18-02-2021||India||Haldiram's partners with Futurelife to bring nutritional product range to India||Food and snack company Haldiram's has partnered with Africa's Futurelife to bring its nutritional food product range to India.The two companies on Thursday announced the launch of a range of four products -- Smart Foods, Smart Oats and Ancient Grains, Crunchy Granola and High Protein-- in India."Haldiram's is committed to being part of an increasing trend being seen across urban India with regards to better eating habits, reflecting a marked shift towards the consumption of healthier food and beverages.“Given its varied portfolio that blends high quality, nutritious and tasty food products and is highly acclaimed by consumers globally, Futurelife has emerged as the partner-of-choice for Haldiram's in India," the company said in a statement.A K Tyagi, Executive Director, Haldiram's said: "At Haldiram's, we are not only seeing an increasing consumer preference in India for health foods but also a growing inclination to try new, non-traditional food products....(we) are eagerly looking forward to retailing their products across our retail stores across North India.”In the first phase of the launch, the products will be available across north India states including Delhi-NCR, Haryana, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Himachal Pradesh. These products will be available at Haldiram's retail outlets and online on Amazon, Big Bazaar, Flipkart, Milk Basket, Big Basket and Grofers.Mark Bunn, Managing Director of Futurelife said the company has partnered with Haldiram's and will tap into their retail network across north India.“World over we are seeing an increasing preference for health foods as consumers focus more on their health and nutritional requirements."The global work-from-home phenomenon due to the pandemic has further increased the demand for such products. We are witnessing similar trends in India and see this as an important market that would be, we believe, very receptive to our range of products," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/haldirams-partners-with-futurelife-to-bring-nutritional-product-range-to-india-101613641771632.html
18-02-2021||India||Big recovery of assault rifles and ‘war-like’ stores from forest area in Jammu||Automatic assault rifles including AK 47 and other arms and ammunition were recovered in large quantity from Makkhidhar forest of Reasi district in Jammu on the intervening night of Wednesday and Thursday, said security officials. The recovery comes at a time when a group of foreign envoys is visiting Jammu and Kashmir for a first-hand account of the ground situation and the developmental works after the abrogation of Article 370 from the erstwhile state."On Wednesday late evening, an intelligence input was received from a reliable source regarding suspicious activity in the remote and dense forests of Makkhidar in the Reasi district. These war-like stores were spread over a large area in remote uninhabited forests,” said a Defence spokesman.The recovered cache of arms comprises AK-47 rifles, SLR rifle, 303 rifle, 2 pistols with magazines, ammunition, 4 under-barrel grenade launcher (UBGL) grenades, an entire box of AK-47 ammunition, and radio sets.Persistent and coordinated joint search by Indian Army and police, duly supported by local intelligence units, led to the successful unearthing of weapons and ‘war-like’ stores, the spokesperson said.A group of foreign envoys, on a two-day visit to Jammu & Kashmir, arrived in Jammu on Thursday and met chief justice Pankaj Mithal and other judges of the high court before having a luncheon meeting with lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha. The envoys were scheduled to interact with political leaders and members of the civil society before flying back to Delhi in the evening.Also Read: IAF proposal to shut Jammu airport for 15 days sends J-K govt into a tizzySecurity officials say terrorists are facing an acute shortage of weapons and are desperate to disrupt peace and development in the region after the successful conclusion of the district development council (DDC) elections process.Reasi district recorded more than 80% voting during the DDC elections- the highest in the Union Territory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/big-recovery-of-assault-rifles-and-war-like-stores-from-forest-area-in-jammu-101613641966116.html
18-02-2021||India||Gadkari hails flagging off of bridge in poll-bound Assam, says will reduce distance with Meghalaya||Union minister of road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari on Thursday addressed an event in Assam where Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched the ‘Mahabahu - Brahmaputra’ initiative virtually over video conferencing.During the program, the Prime Minister also laid foundation stone for a bridge over the Brahmaputra river connecting Assam and Meghalaya.“Demand for a bridge over river Brahmaputra, between Dhubri in Assam and Phulbari in Meghalaya, is 10 years old. With this, distance between Dhubri and Phulbari will be shortened by 203 km,” news agency ANI quoted Gadkari as saying. “Assam and Meghalaya will have a direct connection with West Bengal through this bridge. The 55 km-long road construction from Serampore in West Bengal to Dhubri in Assam will begin this October. It will save the distance and time needed to travel to Bhutan, Bangladesh,” he added.Also read | PM Modi launches projects worth over ₹9,500 cr in AssamThe proposed Dhubri-Phulbari Bridge will be located on NH-127B, originating from Srirampur on NH-27 (East-West Corridor), and terminating at Nongstoin on NH-106 in Meghalaya. It will connect Dhubri in Assam to Phulbari, Tura, Rongram and Rongjeng in Meghalaya.Addressing the event, PM Modi said, “In the past few years, the double engine government of Centre and Assam made an effort to reduce the geographical and cultural gaps of this entire region. Distance between Assam and Meghalaya is around 250 km by road. In the future, it will only be 19-20 km. This bridge will also prove to be significant for the international movement of traffic to other nations.”A statement by the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) said that the launch of ‘Mahabahu-Brahmaputra’ will be marked by the inauguration of the Ro-Pax vessel operations between Neamati-Majuli Island, North Guwahati-South Guwahati and Dhubri-Hatsingimari; Shilanyas of Inland Water Transport (IWT) Terminal at Jogighopa and various tourist jetties on River Brahmaputra and launch of digital solutions for Ease-of-Doing-Business.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gadkari-hails-flagging-off-of-bridge-in-poll-bound-assam-says-will-reduce-distance-with-meghalaya-101613641013903.html
18-02-2021||India||Tripura policewoman among two held in drug smuggling case||Two people, including a Tripura police head constable, have been detained for questioning for their alleged involvement in drug smuggling racket. Gayatri Das, the head constable, has been suspended and an inquiry has been initiated against her. The second accused has been identified as Prashanta Chakraborty.“ She Das as been detained and is being interrogated in connection with the investigation,” said assistant inspector general of police Subrata Chakraborty.Two personal guards of minister Santana Chakma were earlier arrested with drugs in 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-policewoman-among-two-held-in-drug-smuggling-case-101613641753799.html
18-02-2021||India||Foreign envoys visit Jammu, to meet politicians before return||A group of foreign envoys, which is on a two-day visit to Jammu & Kashmir, arrived in the region’s winter capital of Jammu on Thursday and met chief justice Pankaj Mithal and other judges of the high court before having a luncheon meeting with lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha.The envoys were scheduled to interact with political leaders and members of the civil society before flying back to Delhi in the evening.Also Read | HT Editorial: In J&K, the unfinished democratic agendaOn the first day of their visit on Wednesday, the envoys interacted with elected representatives of all political parties in Srinagar.The group includes European Union ambassador Ugo Astuto, and envoys of some 10 European countries, including French ambassador Emmanuel Lenain. Envoys and senior diplomats of Bangladesh are also part of the group.This is the third batch of diplomats to visit Jammu & Kashmir since the government scrapped the region’s special status in August 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/foreign-envoys-visit-jammu-to-meet-politicians-before-return-101613641325515.html
18-02-2021||India||Toolkit case: Delhi HC to hear Disha Ravi's plea on Feb 19||The Delhi high court on Thursday said that the petition filed by arrested climate change activist Disha Ravi seeking an order to prevent the police from leaking investigation material accessed as part of the probe into the 'toolkit case' would be heard on Friday as it required consideration. It also issued notice to the News Broadcasters Association (NBSA), Network 18 and Times Now. According to Ravi, the police had pre-judged her guilt and had been putting out a “biased and defamatory narrative” about her role in violation of the Union home ministry’s guidelines. She has also sought a ban on private TV channels from publishing contents of her WhatsApp conversations.While Solicitor General (SG) Tushar Mehta and Additional Solicitor General (ASG) Chetan Sharma, appearing for the police, said that no leaks were made by the police and they were ready to file an affidavit in this regard, senior advocate Akhil Sibal, appearing for Ravi, argued that police was behind the leakage of information.Sibal also sought a statement by police that no information on the case will be shared with the media in future. However, the SG opposed this and said that the demand was being made for media attention.In her petition, Ravi said that police had taken her mobile phone in their custody on February 13 and had forced her to provide them with credentials of her private accounts.“Thus, only Respondent No. 1 had access to the contents of the Petitioner’s private conversations and any leaks of the same necessarily constitutes the commission of a cognizable offence and is a violation of Petitioner’s dignity, reputation, and fundamental right to privacy, guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution,” the petition said.The 22-year-old activist was arrested on February 13 on charges of sedition, criminal conspiracy and intending to riot. According to the police, she edited a protest toolkit backing the farmers’ agitation against the Centre’s contentious farm laws.The same toolkit was shared on social media by Swedish activist Greta Thurnberg and later deleted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/toolkit-case-delhi-hc-to-hear-disha-ravi-s-plea-on-feb-19-101613640929948.html
18-02-2021||India||In midnight train robbery in Bihar, passengers looted, CRPF aspirant shot||A gang of robbers shot a passenger and looted valuables and cash worth ₹5 lakh from others in the Barauni-Gwalior train in Bihar’s Saran district shortly after Wednesday midnight, police said Thursday.The dacoity took place around 12.30 am on Hajipur-Gorakhpur rail section between Sonpur and Dighwara railway station, about 100 km from Patna.Police said the incident occurred shortly after the train left Sonpur Junction at 12.15 am. As soon as it reached Dighwara station by 12.30, the criminals started looting the passengers. When some passengers resisted, the robbers opened fire, injuring a passenger. The injured passenger was identified as Shivam Yadav, 22 of Itawa Nagar in Uttar Pradesh.According to the station house officer (SHO) of Chhapra Government Railway Police (GRP), Dharmendra Kumar, Yadav was shot when he resisted an attempt by the dacoits to loot him. The injured was returning home after appearing at a recruitment test for the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) in Muzaffarpur.“Yadav was rushed to Chhapra sadar hospital in a critical condition”, the SHO said.Police said that the dacoits pulled a chain to stop the train and escaped under the cover of darkness ahead of the Dighwara station.Passenger said the gang comprised 12 to 15 men. Jitendra Kumar of Chhapra who was traveling in the train said the robbers looted cash, jewellery and mobile phones from the passengers before escaping.When the train reached Chhapra Junction, angry passengers got down and staged a protest. Some of the injured passengers showed their wounds to policemen. Even the women were beaten up and their earrings were snatched. The train was stopped for a couple of hours to facilitate the treatment of injured passengers.Railway officials rushed to the station to pacify the agitated passengers.The passengers claimed that there was no security personnel train when it began the journey from Barauni. Vipin Das, Sashank Singh, Ramesh Sinha, Phoolwa Rani and several other passengers narrated a similar tale. But a policeman familiar with the development said five GRP men armed with lathis who were on the train on escort duty have been suspended.The train proceeded for its onward journey after police recorded the statements of passengers.Superintendent of Railway Police (Muzaffarpur) Ashok Kumar Singh said the robbery was being investigated and a special investigation team (SIT) has been constituted to crack the case. “Raids are being conducted at Sonpur, Chhapra, Siwan and its adjoining areas,” he said.Preliminary investigations hinted the miscreants boarded the train at either Sonpur or Hajipur, a policeman said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-midnight-train-robbery-in-bihar-passengers-looted-crpf-aspirant-shot-101613640746220.html
18-02-2021||India||Nagaland assembly adopts resolution on separatist issue||The Nagaland Legislative Assembly (NLA) on Thursday adopted a four-point resolution on the protracted Naga political issue, urging the government of India and Naga groups to reach a conclusion via political discussions and bring about “one solution” without further delay.The Naga insurgency began in 1950s seeking independence, but over the years that gave way to demand for other things like more autonomy, integration of all Naga-inhabited areas in Nagaland, Assam, Arunachal Pradesh and Manipur.“That, this August House urges the Government of the Union of India and the Naga political groups to sit across the table for the conclusion of the political negotiation, that is honourable, inclusive and acceptable to the people as ‘One Solution’ without any further delay,” the resolution stated.Also Read | In dry Nagaland, over 1000 liquor cases registered during peak of Covid pandemicThe resolution, introduced in the assembly by Chief Minister Neiphiu Rio and later adopted by the House, endorsed and reiterated all the past NLA resolutions on the Indo-Naga political issue, and resolved to work unitedly in facilitating the political negotiations. The House also put on record its appreciation the continued efforts made by the Centre to resolve the Indo-Naga political issue through peaceful means and for acknowledging the unique history and identity of the Nagas by upholding the Naga political talks. The House also acknowledged the efforts made by all Naga groups, political parties, civil society, churches and NGOs towards finding a peaceful resolution of the Indo-Naga political issue, and appealed to everyone to continue working towards strengthening Naga unity, by coming together in the spirit of oneness for larger interest of the Naga people. The prominent Isak-Muivah faction of the National Socialist Council of Nagaland, or NSCN-IM, has been holding peace talks with the Union government since 1997, while a conglomeration of seven different Naga national political groups (NNPGs) have also been engaged in separate talks with the centre since 2017.The Centre had signed a “framework agreement” with NSCN (IM) in 2015, and an “agreed position” with the NNPGs in 2017.Meanwhile, the Naga tribal and civil society, along with the state government, have been reiterating that the armed groups must come together to facilitate “one solution” for the sake of the Naga people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nagaland-assembly-adopts-resolution-on-separatist-issue-101613638685344.html
18-02-2021||India||Lucknow CJM court quashes cases against 11 Indian, 8 Indonesia Jamaatis||Chief Judicial Magistrate Sushil Kumari on Wednesday dismissed all cases against 11 Indian and eight Indonesian members of the Tablighi Jamaat during the Covid-19 lockdown as the investigating officer’s report failed to point out any wrong doing on their part.All of them are currently out on bail.The CJM also released all personal bonds of Indian Jamaatis which they had furnished in court at the time of bail.The court quashed cases against Indonesian Jamaatis as the case dairy presented in court by the investigating officer did not mention that they were taking part in any religious activity, giving religious speech or distributing religious audio.The court pointed out that there was no mention of violation of quarantine rules by Jamaatis in the investigating officer’s report.The case daily also did not mention that the eight Indonesian Jamatis violated visa rules by taking part in religious activities in India.All these arrests were made in Prayagraj district in April 2020.During the lockdown in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak, a large number of cases related to Jamaatis were lodged across Uttar Pradesh.After intervention of the Supreme Court, the Allahabad high court divided Uttar Pradesh into three zones- Lucknow, Meerut and Bareilly - for clubbing cases related to Jamaatis and their quick disposal.In Lucknow district court, cases related to Jamaatis from Prayagraj and adjoining districts of Lucknow were transferred.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lucknow-cjm-court-quashes-cases-against-11-indian-8-indonesia-jamaatis-101613637551580.html
18-02-2021||India||PM Modi launches projects worth over ₹9,500 cr in poll-bound Assam||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday launched several connectivity projects worth over ₹9,500 crore in poll-bound Assam. Modi launched the Mahabahu-Brahmaputra project to improve inland water transport connectivity, laid the foundation stone of one bridge and performed ground-breaking ceremony (bhumi pujan) of another via video conferencing. “In the past few years, the amount of work that should have been done to improve connectivity on the Brahmaputra was not undertaken. The Mahabahu-Brahmaputra project has already started working on addressing that,” the PM said, while blaming previous governments at the Centre for neglecting road and waterways’ connectivity in Assam and the rest of northeast. Also Read | Cattle smuggling flourishing in Assam under BJP govt’s rule, alleges BaghelTo be implemented at a cost of ₹3,231 crores, the Mahabahu-Brahmaputra project involves the launch of Ro-Pax ferry services at three places on the Brahmaputra, construction of an inland water transport (IWT) terminal, tourist jetties at four places and launch of two e-portals for ease of doing business. The new Ro-Pax ferry service between Majuli and Neamati will reduce the 11 hours taken to travel between these two places to just one hour. The ferry service between North and South Guwahati will cover the three hours’ distance by road in 30 minutes and the service between Dhubri and Hatsingimari will reduce the eight hours of road travel to three hours. The IWT terminal to be constructed at Jogighopa is expected to boost the local economy with enhanced trade via the waterways. The tourist jetties to be set up at Pandu, Jogighopa, Neamati and Biswanath Ghat are likely to increase river-based tourism. The PM laid the foundation stone for the four-lane bridge over Brahmaputra between Dhubri in Assam and Phulbari in Meghalaya. To be constructed at a cost of ₹5,000 crore, the 19km long bridge over Brahmaputra will be the longest river bridge in India and is expected to benefit 2 million commuters. According to the Assam government, the bridge will improve connectivity among Assam, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Manipur and Tripura and will reduce the distance between Dhubri and Phulbari from 205km to 19km. The distance which used to take six hours earlier will now be reduced to 20 minutes. Modi also performed the ‘bhumi pujan’ for the two-lane bridge on the Brahmaputra between Majuli, the world’s largest river island, and Jorhat. The bridge will connect Neematighat (in Jorhat) and Kamalabari (in Majuli). “The Majuli-Jorhat bridge will address a long-standing demand of the people of Majuli who will now have road connectivity as well. The Dhubri-Phulbari bridge will not just reduce distance between Assam and Meghalaya, but will improve connectivity of Manipur, Mizoram and Tripura to Assam and also reduce distance to Bhutan and Bangladesh,” the PM said. Foundation stone of the North East Data Centre at Guwahati, to be built at a cost of ₹350 crore, was also laid by the PM. The centre will act as a data hub for all states in northeast. Addressing the gathering, union minister for road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari announced the start of a road network project in Majuli worth ₹8,730 crore that will improve connectivity of the island with neighbouring towns. Thursday’s event is the continuation of the BJP-led state government’s recent announcements ahead of the assembly polls in Assam due in April-March. On January 23, the PM had addressed a rally in Sivasagar and distributed land allotment certificates to 106,000 landless families. On February 7, he had addressed another rally at Dhekiajuli, laid foundation stones of two medical colleges and launched the Asom Mala road network project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-launches-projects-worth-over-9-500-cr-in-poll-bound-assam-101613638085522.html
18-02-2021||India||Farmers block tracks, stop trains: Nationwide 'rail roko' agitation in photos||Farmers unions, who have been protesting against Centre’s new agricultural laws, have called for a four-hour countrywide railway blockade on Thursday. Thousands of farmers were seen blocking rail tracks and stopping trains across several states, especially in Punjab.Many women also joined the mass demonstration at rail tracks to demand a complete rollback of three farm legislation enacted by the Centre in September last year. The protesters have vowed to intensify their agitation and mobilise more farmers for support as they demanded that the government must immediately resolve the issues of peasants.The police and railway personnel have heightened security on the tracks and stations so as to prevent any untoward event. An additional 20 companies of the Railway Protection Special Force (RPF) have been deployed across the country.Here’s a look at the ‘rail roko’ protest in pictures||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-block-tracks-stop-trains-nationwide-rail-roko-agitation-in-photos-101613636402557.html
18-02-2021||India||News updates from HT: Uttarakhand flash flood death toll mounts to 59 and all the latest news||Here are today's top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Uttarakhand flash flood: Death toll mounts to 59 Rescuers on Thursday recovered another body from the Tapovan dam tunnel in Uttarakhand’s flash flood-hit Chamoli district, taking the toll from the tragedy to 59, said Praveen Alok.. Read moreNC MPs to skip meeting of delimitation commission todayMembers of the Lok Sabha from the National Conference (NC) have declined to be present for a meeting of the delimitation commission for Jammu and Kashmir that is taking place today.. Read moreFarmers call for 4-hour nationwide 'rail roko' protest, railways step up securityFarm unions have called for a four-hour 'rail roko' demonstration across the country on Thursday as they continue to agitate against three agricultural laws enacted by the Centre in September last year.. Read more'Impressive': Foreign envoys after visiting Jammu and KashmirOn the first day of their visit to Jammu and Kashmir, a group of foreign envoys interacted with elected representatives of all political parties on Wednesday.. Read more'It felt like a Roll Royce was batting in the middle': Ramiz Raja's high praise for India skipper Virat KohliThere were two centurions from the Indian side – Rohit Sharma and Ravichandran Ashwin - that beat England in the second Test in Chennai but according to former Pakistan captain Ramiz Raja.. Read moreAhead of Kareena Kapoor's delivery, Karisma Kapoor, Babita, Ibrahim Ali Khan visit the actor. See picsAhead of her delivery, Kareena Kapoor got a visit from her sister Karisma Kapoor and mother Babita on Wednesday. The Good Newwz actor is due to deliver her second child anytime now.. Read more 'Virat was exceptional, his shot selection impressive': Geoffrey Boycott wants England to learn from India captainFollowing England batsmen's inability to tackle spin in the second Test against India at Chepauk, former England captain Geoffrey Boycott has urged the players to learn.. Read more When Waheeda Rehman spoke about why she refused to take on a 'sexy and juicy' name upon entering BollywoodIn olden times, it was almost customary to change one's name upon becoming a part of the Hindi film industry. Sometime, it was done to cater to the audiences of more pan-India temperament.. Read moreNew bride Dia Mirza's pink couture anarkali suit is the star of her trousseauNewly-wed actor Dia Mirza had a lowkey wedding but it sure made a lot of headlines and for all the right reasons. First, it was her simple yet elegant Banarasi wedding saree that stole the show.. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-uttarakhand-flash-flood-death-toll-mounts-to-59-and-all-the-latest-news-101613632842228.html
18-02-2021||India||Ramani's acquittal in defamation case vindication of women journalists: IWPC||The Indian Women's Press Corps (IWPC) on Thursday termed the acquittal of journalist Priya Ramani in a defamation case filed against her by former minister MJ Akbar as vindication of women journalists who have forever protested sexual harassment and shied away from unwelcome attention in the newsroom.Ramani had made allegations of sexual misconduct against Akbar in the wake of #MeToo movement in 2018. Akbar had filed the complaint against Ramani on October 15, 2018 for allegedly defaming him.A Delhi court had on Wednesday acquitted Ramani in the case, saying a woman has the right to put grievances before any platform of her choice even after decades.In a statement, the IWPC said it is delighted to welcome the court verdict declaring Ramani not guilty of defaming Akbar."Priya Ramani's courage as well as that of a key defence witness and journalist, Ghazala Wahab, in testifying against Mr Akbar has been characterised as vindication of the #MeToo movement in India, but it is much more than that," the women's press body said."It is a vindication of us women journalists, who have forever protested sexual harassment and assault and shied away from unwelcome attention in the newsroom. All we want is a safe working space, so that we can hold the outside world to account; instead, we often find that the predators are within," it added.The IWPC further said it applauds Ramani's determination not to give up, for breaking the silence around this issue."Fact is, even at the height of the #Metoo movement, only 20 women journalists decided to go public about their ordeal, consumed by a misplaced sense of honour. The IWPC hopes that women journalists across the country will find the courage to emulate Priya Ramani and Ghazala Wahab. They have shown us the way," the IWPC said.Akbar had resigned as a Union minister on October 17, 2018. He has denied all allegations of sexual harassment of the women who came forward against him during the #MeToo campaign.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ramanis-acquittal-in-defamation-case-vindication-of-women-journalists-iwpc-101613636743829.html
18-02-2021||India||‘Metro man’ Sreedharan to join BJP, says will contest Kerala elections||Elattuvalappil Sreedharan (88) better known as India’s Metro Man, will join the Bharatiya Janata Party, said BJP state president K Surendran on Thursday in Kozhikode.He said Sreedharan will be inducted into the party during his pre-poll ‘Vijya Yatra’ which will be flagged off on February 22.“It is true, I will join the BJP. I have been staying in the state for the last ten years and observing the political climate. Both fronts, ruling LDF and opposition UDF, are interested in furthering their organizations. The state has immense potential, but development takes a backseat always. If I can do something positive, I will be happy,” said Sreedharan who is leading a semi-retired life in his ancestral home in Ponnani (Malappuram) district.Sreedharan wields a lot of respect and standing in Kerala and his entry could boost the BJP in the state where the party remains far behind the Congress and the Left Front.He said the BJP’s state leaders had approached him last week and he agreed to their request to join the party.“They suggested that I should contest in the upcoming assembly election. I agreed to this also. It is for the party to decide where I should contest,” he said adding he will be into healthy politics and Metro mannot interested in mere mudslinging or gimmicks.The BJP has an unwritten code of not giving tickets to contest an election to candidates who are above 75 years of age. Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa has been an exception to the unwritten rule.A retired civil engineer from Indian railways he revolutionised the way the urban people commute. The Pambhan bridge in Rameswaram, Konkan railways and the Delhi Metro are among the prestigious projects that carry his signature.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/metro-man-sreedharan-to-join-bjp-says-will-contest-kerala-elections-101613636353363.html
18-02-2021||India||‘Assam's development a priority’, says PM Modi as he flags off Ro-Pax service between Majuli and Neamati||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday said that his government has priortised Assam's development and efforts are being made day and night to fulfill this."Now Assam's development is also a priority, efforts are being made day and night for this. Steps have been taken one by one to re-establish multi-modal connectivity of Assam in the last 5 years," PM Modi said in his address while launching the 'Mahabahu-Brahmaputra' initiative.The Prime Minister also laid the foundation stone of Dhubri Phulbari Bridge today via video conferencing.Explaining the difficulties in development projects in Assam, PM Modi said, "Steps have been taken one by one to re-establish multi-modal connectivity of Assam in the last 5 years. The work related to connectivity on the Brahmaputra should have been done earlier. Because of this, connectivity in Assam and North East remained a challenge."With the blessings of Mahabahu Brahmaputra, fast work is now being done in this direction, the PM said. Praising the BJP-led government in the state and Centre, PM Modi said, "Over the years, the double-engine government of the Center and Assam have tried to reduce both the geographical and cultural distances of the entire region."The proposed Dhubri Phulbari Bridge will be located on NH-127B, originating from Srirampur on NH-27 (East-West Corridor), and terminating at Nongstoin on NH-106 in Meghalaya. It will connect Dhubri in Assam to Phulbari, Tura, Rongram and Rongjeng in Meghalaya.The bridge, to be built with a total cost of approximately ₹4,997 crores, will meet the long-standing demand of the people from Assam and Meghalaya who were depending on ferry services to travel between the two banks of the river. It will reduce the distance of 205 km to be travelled by road to 19 km, which is the total length of the bridge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assams-development-a-priority-says-pm-modi-as-he-flags-off-ro-pax-service-between-majuli-and-neamati-101613634785396.html
18-02-2021||India||Rail roko: Trains halts in Punjab as hundreds of farmers lay siege to railway tracks||As the nationwide 'rail roko' protest by farmers against Centre's farm laws started, scores of protesters blocked the railway tracks across south Malwa region.Rail roko protest: Track live updatesMany leaders of the farmer unions blocked trains at more than 40 spots in Ferozepur railway division in Punjab. Officials said the security has been beefed up to prevent any untoward incident.The 'rail roko' protest will continue for four hours - from 12 noon to 4 pm.A large number of women have also joined the protesters to press the Centre to rollback the three contentious farm laws passed in September last year.Ferozepur divisional manager Rajesh Agarwal said that no train was cancelled or diverted on Thursday before the ‘rail roko’ agitation started.“Train services in the division, comprising of a major part of Punjab, Himachal Pradesh and Jammu, ran as per schedule till 11.30 am. After that, the trains were stopped till 4 pm at main railway stations. As per the inputs, the farmer unions are expected to stage demonstrations at about 50 sites,” said Agarwal.In Fatehgarh Sahib and Patiala too, hundreds of farmers have laid siege to railway tracks at multiple locations. Trains running under Ambala division have been halted at major railway stations across the region so that inconvenience to passengers can be avoided.Train services will be resumed after the protesters vacate tracks.“After the safety audit of the railway tracks, trains will be back in service after 4 pm. The railway authorities are in constant touch with the state police administration,” said the DRM.The farmer leaders have accused the Centre of not paying heed to their demands. A farmer activist Jung Singh said they are not going to relent till the government accepts their demands.Security has been tightened at railway stations across the country with special focus on Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal.State Police, Government Railway Police (GRP), Railway Police Force (RPF) are on high alert. The Railways has deployed 20 additional companies of the RPF.After the tractor rally and 'chakka jaam', 'rail roko' is the next major protest by the farmers against the three farm laws.Farmers have been protesting at the different borders of the national capital since November last year, against the three newly enacted farm laws - Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rail-roko-trains-halts-in-punjab-as-hundreds-of-farmers-lay-siege-to-railway-tracks-101613635321805.html
18-02-2021||India||Uttarakhand passes ordinance to give land ownership to daughters and wives||Uttarakhand government has passed an ordinance to give land ownership rights to daughters and wives of male landowners by amending the Uttarakhand Zamindari Abolition and Land Reforms Act ahead of the budget session of the assembly.The ordinance was passed by the government at a cabinet meeting chaired by chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Wednesday evening, an official privy to the matter said on condition of anonymity."Under the ordinance, the daughters will have ownership rights on the land owned by her father. Similarly, a wife will also be the joint owner of the land of her husband," the official said.He said that the move is aimed to "facilitate the women who are working in fields owned by their husbands or fathers especially in the hilly areas of the state. So far in Uttarakhand, the land ownership rights are transferred to men in the family which are then passed on to their sons."Traditionally in the hilly areas of Uttarakhand, men and their wives are involved in the farming on their land. However, men are largely involved in just heavy labour intensive work like ploughing the field while about 90% farming-related works are done by their wives. Despite that they don't have any ownership of that piece of land."Due to this, if any woman wants to take some loan for any farming related work on the field, they are denied because they don't have ownership of the land. Once this amendment is introduced in the aforementioned Act, they will also have the ownership rights of the land along with their husbands and take a loan," said the official.The cabinet also approved the decision to legalise residential and non-residential buildings that do not have their maps."The buildings would be legalised in a one-time settlement. For the residential buildings in the hilly areas, the application fees would be ₹2,500 and that in plain areas would be ₹5,000. For the non-residential buildings in hilly areas the application fees would be ₹5,000 and that in plain areas would be ₹10,000," said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-passes-ordinance-to-give-land-ownership-to-daughters-and-wives-101613634870610.html
18-02-2021||India||SC seeks govt on plea for voting rights to people outside their constituencies||The Supreme Court Thursday sought response from the Centre and the Election Commission on a plea seeking voting rights through postal ballot for people stationed outside their constituency.A bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde issued notices to the Ministry of Law and Justice and the poll body seeking their replies on the petition."What kind of plea is this? Sitting in England you will vote here? If you can't care enough to go to your constituency why should law help you," said the bench also comprising Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian.Also read| Over 120K died due to air pollution in India in 2020: GreenpeaceThe apex court was hearing a plea filed by S Sathyan seeking voting rights for students, NRIs and other people stationed outside their constituency at the time of elections.The PIL has sought extension of postal ballot facility or electronically transmitted postal ballot system to all registered voters stationed outside their constituency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-seeks-govt-on-plea-for-voting-rights-to-people-outside-their-constituencies-101613633344590.html
18-02-2021||India||Uttarakhand flash flood: Death toll mounts to 60||Rescuers on Thursday recovered two more bodies from the Tapovan dam tunnel in Uttarakhand’s flash flood-hit Chamoli district, taking the toll from the tragedy to 60, said Praveen Alok, a spokesman for the State Disaster Response Force. Thirteen of the bodies have been found in the tunnel while the rest downstream the Rishiganga and Reni village.Alok said the tunnel dinging has progressed beyond 146 metres at the Tapovan Dam site as 145 people remain missing in the flash flood aftermath. He said despite challenges due to the recovery of decomposed and mutilated bodies, their identification process is on. “So far, 31 bodies have been identified.”The rescuers have also recovered 27 human body parts, of which the identity of one has been ascertainedThe rescuers face difficulties in removing muck from the tunnel due to the presence of big boulders and water percolation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-flash-flood-death-toll-mounts-to-60-101613632865233.html
18-02-2021||India||People's Party of Arunachal says Statehood Act 'defective', demands amendment||The People's Party of Arunachal (PPA) has urged Chief Minister Pema Khandu and MPs from the state to initiate fresh dialogue with the Centre for amendment of the "defective" Statehood Act of 1987.Arunachal Pradesh celebrates Statehood Day on February 20.PPA secretary General Kaling Jerang, in a statement, alleged the act passed by Parliament without the constitutional backing of the assembly, overlooked genuine concerns and grievances of the indigenous people of the state."The PPA has always been reminding the people of the state how we have been living with this defective act, which is hollow and empty and does not hold anything worthwhile for the indigenous people in terms of ownership rights over its land, rivers, forests and minerals," Jerang said."Now that both the Centre and the state are ruled by the same political party, there could not have been a better opportunity to initiate a fresh dialogue with the Centre on the long-pending issue," he said.Jerang said the party has also been demanding that the state be provided with similar constitutional rights extended to people in states like Nagaland and Mizoram.The Statehood Day should be an occasion to introspect on the strength and viability of the continued relevance of Bengal Eastern Frontier Regulation (BEFR) 1873, as well, he said."With doubts and fear of the Citizenship Amendment Act looming large, it is time that the people of the state speak in unison for the BEFR to be given the status of a Parliamentary act rather than continuing to live with the British-made regulation," Jerang added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/peoples-party-of-arunachal-says-statehood-act-defective-demands-amendment-101613630530604.html
18-02-2021||India||NC MPs to skip meeting of delimitation commission today||Members of the Lok Sabha from the National Conference (NC) have declined to be present for a meeting of the delimitation commission for Jammu and Kashmir that is taking place today. NC president and Lok Sabha member Farooq Abdullah said his party has conveyed to the commission in writing the reasons for not attending the meeting.The Delimitation Commission is scheduled to hold its first meeting with associate members, including Union minister of state in the Prime Minister’s Office Dr Jitendra Singh, today.Also Read | 24 diplomats visit J&K in third delegation since Article 370 moveLok Sabha MPs from Kashmir Dr Farooq Abdullah, Mohammad Akbar Lone and Hasnain Masoodi will not be present. Lok Sabha member from Jammu, Jugal Kishore, could not be reached for a comment. The commission was set up by the Union Law Ministry on March 6, 2020, under Section 3 of the Delimitation Act 2002, the Delimitation Commission for J&K with the mandate to redraw the constituencies of the UT of Jammu and Kashmir in accordance with the provisions under the Jammu and Kashmir Reorganization Act 2019 which bifurcated the state into Union Territories of J&K and Ladakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nc-mps-to-skip-meeting-of-delimitation-commission-today-101613632625262.html
18-02-2021||India||Man dies of heart attack while playing cricket in Pune district||A 47-year-old man died of a heart attack while playing cricket at Junnar in Pune district on Wednesday, health officials said.The man was identified as Babu Nalwade. A video showing Nalwade collapsing on the ground while standing at the non-striker's end went viral.Officials said the incident took place during a local tournament organised near Jadhavwadi village. Following the incident, Nalwade was taken to a private hospital by fellow players. “However, he was declared brought dead," said an official from Narayangaon police station.An autopsy confirmed that he suffered a heart attack, the official said||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-dies-of-heart-attack-while-playing-cricket-in-pune-district-101613632162006.html
18-02-2021||India||Tension in UP's Unnao, locals stop district officials from burying the 2 girls found dead in a field; demand CBI probe||Locals in Unnao in Uttar Pradesh on Thursday opposed the burial of two minor girls who were found dead in a field late Wednesday evening unless their bodies are first handed over to the families.The villagers are also protesting the detention of four family members of the victims and are demanding a CBI inquiry into the deaths.The post mortem of the victims are being conducted out by a panel of four doctors- three males and one female.Dr Ashutosh Vaishnav, Dr Sanjeev Kumar, Dr Kaushalendra Kumar and Dr Archana are in the panel. The entire process would be video graphed, officials said.Unnao’s sub-divisional magistrate Nanhku is also present at the post mortem.The local administration brought in an earth mover to dig the graves. As per tradition minors are not cremated. The earth mover has been parked outside the village amid the protest by the villagers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tension-in-up-s-unnao-locals-stop-district-officials-from-burying-the-2-girls-found-dead-in-a-field-demand-cbi-probe-101613631729127.html
18-02-2021||India||‘Police leaked private WhatsApp chat’: Disha Ravi asks court to stop cops, media||Climate activist Disha Ravi on Thursday petitioned the Delhi High Court to stop the police from leaking “any investigation material” accessed by the Delhi Police as part of the probe, asserting that the police had pre-judged her guilt and had been putting out a “biased and defamatory narrative” about her role in violation of the Union home ministry’s guidelines.The 22-year-old activist was arrested by a team of Delhi Police officers from her Bengaluru home on Saturday on charges of sedition, criminal conspiracy and intending to riot. Police said she edited a protest social media toolkit backing the farmers’ agitation against the Centre’s new farm laws, which seek to open up agricultural trade in the country, and later shared it with others “to tarnish India’s image” and incite unrest.Two other suspects in this case, a Mumbai-based lawyer Nikita Jacob and Beed resident Shantanu Muluk, have been granted protection from arrest by the Mumbai high court to enable them to approach a court in Delhi for relief.Also Read: Disha Ravi’s arrest is wrong | HT EditorialIn her petition filed on Thursday, Disha Ravi said the police had taken custody of her mobile phone on 13 February and compelled her to supply passwords to access her phone, email addresses, and social media accounts. “Thus, only Respondent No. 1 had access to the contents of the Petitioner’s private conversations and any leaks of the same necessarily constitutes the commission of a cognizable offence and is a violation of Petitioner’s dignity, reputation, and fundamental right to privacy, guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution,” the petition said.The petition will be taken up by the high court later in the afternoon. The Centre’s second most senior law officer, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, will appear for the Delhi Police.The activist cited a string of media reports that had appeared in recent days citing alleged contents from her WhatsApp contents, underlying that these one-sided reports based on the narrative put out by the police were defamatory in nature.Besides, the Delhi Police was also putting out posts on Twitter that are in violation of the Union home ministry’s guidelines issued in 2010 because these tweets “prejudge the guilt of the petitioner and disclose confidential and prejudicial information about the status of investigation stating that the petitioner was a “key conspirator in the document (toolkit’s) formulation & dissemination. She started WhatsApp Group & collaborated to make the Toolkit doc. She worked closely with them to draft the Doc”.“Such tweets constitute an opinionated and judgmental statement and significantly impinge on the right to privacy and fair trial of the petitioner,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/police-leaked-private-whatsapp-chat-disha-ravi-asks-court-to-stop-cops-media-101613631458005.html
18-02-2021||India||IAF proposal to shut Jammu airport for 15 days sends J-K govt into a tizzy||Jammu and Kashmir lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha has spoken to defence minister Rajnath Singh following a proposal by the Indian Air Force to close the Jammu Airport for civilian traffic for 15 days next month for runway resurfacing work, officials privy to the development said.“A letter had come from IAF proposing closure of the airport for civilian traffic for 15 days next month. In this context we are leaving on Thursday for Delhi for a meeting with civil aviation and defence secretaries,” Jammu Airport Director Pravat Ranjan Beuria said Wednesday evening.A final decision will be taken at Delhi on Thursday, he said.“No decision has been taken as yet to shut the airport for 15 days next month. The IAF had proposed it and that is why we have taken up the matter with secretary defence, who is the competent authority. The lieutenant governor has also spoken to the defence minister about the issue. By Thursday evening something may come out of it (meeting)”, he said.Nearly two dozen flights operate to and from the Jammu airport.Jammu and Kashmir chief secretary B V R Subrahmanyam has also written to the civil aviation secretary Pradeep Singh Kharola requesting that resurfacing of the runway be done in a phased manner to avoid disruption of civilian traffic.Subrahmanyam said in his letter that complete closure of the airport for 15 days would create huge administrative issues for Jammu and Kashmir.“In the eventuality of the closure for 15 days, air traffic would have to be diverted to the nearest civil airport in Punjab, which would result in various logistical issues,” he has said in his letter.It has been learnt that the civil aviation secretary has taken up the matter with defence secretary Ajay Kumar seeking his intervention into the matter.Following the IAF’s letter, private airliners have stopped booking for the 15 day period. The runway work is scheduled to begin on March 5 and end on March 20.Officials said Air Force Station, Jammu wants complete closure of the runway for 15 days towards laying of final two top DAC-II layers on the runway surface from March 6 to 20, which has been approved by Air Headquarters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iaf-proposal-to-shut-jammu-airport-for-15-days-sends-j-k-govt-into-a-tizzy-101613630871547.html
18-02-2021||India||India third country with highest cumulative Covid-19 vaccination numbers: Health ministry||India is third globally, after the US and the UK, in highest cumulative vaccination numbers, the Union health ministry said on Thursday.Till 8 am on Thursday, the cumulative vaccination coverage of healthcare workers (HCWs) and frontline workers (FLWs) against Covid-19 in the country has crossed 94 lakh, the ministry said.The daily Covid-19 positivity rate has also seen a constant decline in the last seven days. From 1.89 per cent on February 1, it has dropped to 1.69 per cent on Thursday, it said.A total of 94,22,228 vaccine doses have been given to beneficiaries through 1,99,305 sessions till 8 am on February 18, as per the provisional report.These include 61,96,641 HCWs (first dose), 3,69,167 HCWs (second dose) and 28,56,420 FLWs (first dose).The administration of the second dose of Covid-19 vaccination started on February 13 for those beneficiaries who had completed 28 days after receipt of the first dose.The vaccination of the FLWs started from February 2.Also read| Post-Covid, Indian Institute of Advanced Study in Shimla opens doors for touristsAs on day 33 (February 18) of the vaccination drive, a total of 4,22,998 vaccine doses were given across 7,932 sessions.Of which, 3,30,208 beneficiaries were vaccinated for the first dose and 92,790 received the second dose.The ministry said 58.20 per cent of those who have received the second dose are concentrated in seven states while Karnataka alone accounts for 14.74 per cent (54,397 doses).India's cumulative recoveries have surged to 1.06 crore (1,06,56,845) on Thursday, the ministry said. "Rising recoveries along with contained daily deaths have ensured a sustained fall in the Covid-19 active caseload," the ministry underlined.India's present active cases (1,37,342) constitute just 1.25 per cent of the total infections with 11,987 patients having recuperated in a span of 24 hours, it said.The distribution of new cases depicts a positive picture. Only two states have registered more than 1,000 new cases during the period, it said.Sixteen states and UTs have not reported any Covid-19 deaths in the last 24 hours, it said.These are Delhi, Odisha, Jammu and Kashmir, Jharkhand, Himachal Pradesh, Lakshadweep, Manipur, Meghalaya, Sikkim, Ladakh, Nagaland, Mizoram, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Tripura, Daman and Diu, Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Arunachal Pradesh.Also read| India to test travellers from Brazil, South Africa, UK after new virus strainsIn a span of 24 hours, only one state has recorded more than 20 deaths, the ministry said.Kerala and Maharashtra account for 75 per cent of the new cases, 72 per cent of new recovered cases and 55 per cent of new deaths, it said.According to the ministry, 85.14 per cent of the new recovered cases are concentrated in six states.At 4,932, Kerala has reported the maximum number of single day recoveries while 3,853 people recovered in Maharashtra followed by Karnataka (537).A total 12,881 new daily cases have been recorded in a span of 24 hours.The ministry said 86.61 per cent of the new cases are from six states.Kerala continues to report the highest daily new cases at 4,892 followed by Maharashtra (4,787), while Tamil Nadu reported 454 new cases.Meanwhile, 101 fatalities were recorded in the last 24 hours, officials said, adding that five States account for 76.24 per cent of the new deaths, it said.Maharashtra saw the maximum casualties (40) followed by Kerala (16) and Punjab (10), it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-third-country-with-highest-cumulative-covid-19-vaccination-numbers-health-ministry-101613630688287.html
18-02-2021||India||Bharat Biotech seeks Covid-19 vaccine approval in over 40 countries||India's Bharat Biotech is in the process of filing regulatory documents for approval of its Covid-19 vaccine, Covaxin, in more than 40 countries, the company told Reuters late on Wednesday."We have submitted our documentation in Brazil and other countries and await their approval. We plan to export several million doses to Brazil," the company said in an emailed statement. "Pricing of Covaxin for international markets will be based upon supply timelines, purchase commitments and procurement volumes," it added.Bharat Biotech, which last Tuesday had told Reuters it may export doses of Covaxin to Brazil and the United Arab Emirates by the end of the week, did not name other countries and did not give exact figures on doses it expects to export.The company has also entered into an agreement with US drug developer Ocugen Inc for the commercialization of Covaxin in the United States, which has seen the most number of infections in the world.Covaxin is one of the two vaccines approved for emergency use in India, though efficacy data from its late-stage trial is yet to be published.Bharat Biotech expects results from an ongoing trial involving 25,800 participants in India only by March, though the country's drug regulator has called the vaccine safe and effective amid criticism from some doctors and health experts.Covaxin is currently being used by India in its vaccination campaign, which has already covered more than 9 million health workers, and aims to cover 300 million people by August. Bharat Biotech has supplied 5.5 million doses to the government and will sell an additional 4.5 million doses.India, with nearly 11 million coronavirus cases, has the second highest number of infections in the world, though some experts believe the worst of the disease has passed in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-biotech-seeks-covid-19-vaccine-approval-in-over-40-countries-101613631309684.html
18-02-2021||India||Quad to hold first ministerial meeting after Biden administration assumed office||The Quadrilateral Security Dialogue or Quad will on Thursday hold its first ministerial meeting since the Biden administration assumed office in the US to discuss practical cooperation for maintaining a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific. This will be the third meeting of the foreign ministers of the group that includes India, Australia, Japan and the US, and it is being held less than five months after the last meeting in Tokyo in October, signalling the Biden administration’s commitment to the Quad as a key formation in the Indo-Pacific. The virtual meeting will “provide an opportunity to continue the useful exchange of views from their last meeting in Tokyo” on October 6, 2020, the external affairs ministry said in a brief statement. The foreign ministers will “exchange views on regional and global issues especially practical areas of cooperation towards maintaining a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific region”, the statement said. External affairs minister S Jaishankar, Australian foreign minister Marise Payne, Japanese foreign minister Toshimitsu Motegi and US secretary of state Antony Blinken will also discuss efforts to combat the Covid-19 pandemic, addressing global climate change and other issues of mutual interest, the statement said. There had been speculation in some quarters on whether India would continue to work closely with the Quad following progress in its efforts aimed at disengagement with Chinese forces in Ladakh sector of the Line of Actual Control (LAC). After several rounds of diplomatic and military talks, India and China have agreed on disengagement on the northern and southern banks of Pangong Lake, one of the friction points in Ladakh sector. US state department spokesperson Ned Price told a news briefing on Thursday that the Quad is “critical to advancing our shared goals of a free and open Indo-Pacific and rising to the defining challenges of our time, including coordinating our efforts on Covid-19 response as well as climate change”. A statement from Japan’s foreign ministry said the four ministers will hold “wide-ranging discussions to advance practical cooperation” for a “free and open Indo-Pacific” and also discuss regional issues. Australia’s foreign ministry described the Quad as a “key pillar” of the country’s international agenda that complements other regional and multilateral engagement, including with the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (Asean). “This dialogue will allow our nations to advance our shared interest in a secure and prosperous region. The Quad’s positive agenda will enable us to progress cooperation among four Indo-Pacific democracies across a range of areas, including to support the region recover from the economic and health impacts of Covid-19,” it said in a statement. At the last Quad ministerial meeting in October, the group pushed for a rules-based global order and peaceful resolution of disputes in the face of China’s growing aggression across the Indo-Pacific. Then US secretary of state Mike Pompeo had also indicated at the time of the meeting that Washington wanted to formalise and expand the informal group. While addressing the Quad meeting in Tokyo, Jaishankar said India and the other members of the group remain committed to a rules-based international order, “underpinned by the rule of law, transparency, freedom of navigation in the international seas, respect for territorial integrity and sovereignty, and peaceful resolution of disputes”. The Quad was upgraded to the ministerial level in September 2019. Recent reports have suggested the Biden administration too is keen on further upgrading the Quad by organising a meeting of leaders of the four countries. Chinese officials have likened the group to a “mini NATO” and said its activities are aimed at targeting third parties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/quad-to-hold-first-ministerial-meeting-after-biden-administration-assumed-office-101613631365201.html
18-02-2021||India||Modi’s leadership helped BJP gain ground across the country: Anurag Thakur||Union minister Anurag Thakur has said Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government works for the development of all and that the biggest beneficiaries of its social welfare schemes are the sections misled by the Congress for decades. In an interview with Smriti Kak Ramachandran, Thakur also spoke about the government’s attempts to break the logjam over the farmers’ protests against the three farm laws passed in September and its commitment to doubling farm incomes. Edited excerpts:The agitation has continued despite the government’s assurances and outreach. Now it threatens to stoke unrest in the Jat-dominated areas...The government is committed to agriculture reforms and doubling the farmers’ income. The misleading of farmers by certain political parties led to this situation. The government believes in dialogue and will be able to resolve this through dialogue because this is in the interest of the farmers. From the government’s side, senior leaders including Union agriculture and home ministers have interacted with groups [of farmers] and we are open to the idea of meeting them again.How would you respond to the Congress’s criticism that the Budget is directionless?I think Rahul Gandhi‘s speech on the Budget exposed the Congress. They have nothing to say on the Budget; nothing to criticise. They are ill-prepared on the subject and they could not digest that the media, economists, industrialists, and even our critics said this is a great Budget. The market responded positively, not only on day one but for the last two weeks. We have seen a positive sentiment in the market.Also Read | Budget shows hope to build new, self-reliant India, says Anurag ThakurIs this an honest and transparent Budget that has not hidden our problems?Prime Minister Modi made it very clear that there should be no additional tax burden. There should be more transparency...the finance minister made sure that should happen. And even MPs [members of Parliament] from the Opposition parties appreciated this move of the government.Is there a shift of focus from the infrastructure to healthcare and education? How do you see the linkages in the economy for this?...we had hundreds of video conferences with various stakeholders to take their feedback during the pandemic...lots of Budget meetings also. One suggestion was about [increasing] the liquidity during the pandemic. That has been addressed with schemes like Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme, Subordinate Debt Scheme, and Income Tax refund of over ₹2 lakh crore, etc. In the pre-budget meetings, most of the stakeholders said there should be an increase in capital expenditure. And the government increased it by 34.5%... this will have a multiplier effect… more jobs will be created, and better infrastructure will be created. And you can monetise this in the future and repay your debt.Do you think welfare schemes will help the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the assembly polls over the next few months? And will they override the schemes run by the states?The states are getting more revenue share--from 32% to 41%. They have their own schemes. But the central schemes such as Ayushman Bharat and the PM Kisan Yojana have benefitted millions across states. For example, take the agriculture infrastructure cess, the more money generated will be spent in states.The BJP seeks to wrest power in West Bengal, and do you think it will emerge as an alternative in states such as Tamil Nadu and Kerala, which are not its strongholds?People are fed up with the aunt-nephew government in West Bengal. They are upset with the politics of appeasement and corruption. In other places, there used to be nepotism, here [West Bengal], the nephew [of chief minister Mamata Banerjee, Abhishek Banerjee] is running the government. We will do well in Tamil Nadu, Kerala, and Puducherry also because people in these states have seen the performance of the Modi government at the Centre and how effectively we have worked during the pandemic. In Kerala, we have lost hundreds of workers to political violence. At the same time, the local government is again indulging in politics of appeasement. Kerala has seen enough of communists, Congress, and corruption. Now they are looking for good governance and the BJP is the only alternative.The BJP is criticised for not having chief ministerial candidates and lacking leadership...Where were the faces in Haryana…in Maharashtra, we did not have a chief ministerial candidate. In Tripura, we were nowhere and in Assam, we were not that strong. Where was the leadership? It is the party’s ideology, clean governance and good governance. Modi’s leadership and charisma have helped the BJP gain ground across the country, from the East to the West, from the North to now the South.There is a perception that the government is cracking down on any kind of dissent...For us, national security and the security of Indians is the most important. You vote at 18. It is your action not the age, which forces you to face police action. And if you are trying to destroy the social fabric, then action should be taken.There also seems to be a disconnect between the government and social media companies...We have to see whether the social media platforms are being used for destroying the social fabric or misused for fulfilling the desire to do so. If so, the government has as per the law, every right to take action. If the government indicates the concerned platform to take action against those [destroying the social fabric] or give information, then it is as per the law.You have also been criticised for some of your election speeches. There is a study that says that BJP leaders have the most cases of hate speeches against them...The BJP believes in good governance. It believes in the agenda of development and we always contest elections on the issue of development. And we will contest future elections on the same agenda. And we have delivered. We have cut down the instances of stone pelting in Kashmir, cases of violence. and terror attacks in various parts of the country... The BJP believes in Prime Minister Modi‘s Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas, Sab Ka Vishwas mantra. Post-elections also, you will see that the biggest beneficiaries of all the social welfare schemes have been those sections who have been misled by the Congress for decades.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modis-leadership-helped-bjp-gain-ground-across-the-country-anurag-thakur-101613630645036.html
18-02-2021||India||Kumbh Mela 2021 to begin from April 1: All you need to know||The Uttarakhand government has decided to restrict one of the most sacred pilgrimages, the Kumbh Mela, to 30 days this year. The government will issue the notice about the updated dates by the end of March. The grand fair will now be held from April 1 to April 30 in Haridwar.The state government has taken the decision due to the ongoing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. "The decision has been made to prevent and contain the spread of the Covid-19 virus," news agency ANI quoted Uttarakhand chief secretary Om Prakash as saying.Here is an all you need to know about the Kumbh Mela:> The Kumbh Mela is celebrated every 12 years staggered among four sacred sites along the holy rivers - Haridwar, Ujjain, Nashik and Prayag.> Religious tourism is the backbone of Uttarakhand's economy. Hence, the event comes as a hope of revival for the people associated with the sector, said Seema Nautiyal, Haridwar District Tourism Officer.Also Read | Uttarakhand to limit crowd using cameras with head count software at Kumbh Mela> On its website for the Kumbh Mela, the tourism department said it was earlier expecting a footfall of 10 crore pilgrims everyday, but the Covid-19 safety restrictions will reduce the number.> Preparations for accommodation of around 1.25 lakh pilgrims any day is going on in 800 hotels and 350 ashrams in Haridwar, it further said.> In order to regain business during religious congregation, a 156-sq km 'mela area' has been marked in three districts of Haridwar, Dehradun and Pauri Garhwal for people linked with hospitality, tourism and civil supplies.>The district administration has demanded 70,000 doses of Covid-19 vaccines for the personnel on duty.> Passes will be required to take part in the Kumbh Mela. The passes for entry will be issued only after a negative RT-PCR test report, medical certificate and identification proof, said Haridwar District Magistrate C Ravishankar. ANI reported.> Thousands of temporary toilets, urinals and bathrooms will be established. with the major emphasis Solid Waste Management (SWM) and sanitation amid the raging pandemic.Also Read | Odisha: Devotee donates over 4 kg gold, 3 kg silver to Puri Jagannath Temple> CCTVs at multiple locations, deployment of police personnel (CRPF, SDRF, NDRF, etc), medical centres and dispensaries have been established to ensure safety in Kumbh 2021.> Several cultural initiatives like paint my city, laser shows, branding, water screen projection, facade improvement, intersection development, riverfront development, road restoration and construction, and Railway Station as well as Bus shelter beautification have been taken for attracting tourists.> Under the 'Paint My City' campaign executed by the Haridwar-Roorkee Development, Mela Deputy Officer Harbir Singh told ANI that colorful mythological graffities depicting the epics and culture of Uttarakhand has been done across walls, bridges, government buildings, and other spaces in Haridwar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kumbh-mela-2021-to-begin-from-april-1-all-you-need-to-know-101613626352786.html
18-02-2021||India||Rail roko will be peaceful, will not join politics: Rakesh Tikait||Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait on Thursday said that 'rail roko', the blockade of trains as part of protests against farm laws, will be done in a peaceful manner and food and refreshments provided to people stranded due to the protest. He also stated that he will not join politics as he considers it "a big disease"."Rail roko protest will begin at 12 pm and go on till 3-4 pm. Trains are not plying anyway. It'll be done peacefully. We'll provide water, milk, lassi and fruits to people who are stranded. We will inform them about our issues," he said."Today we have two rallies in Hisar and I am going there. I am going to a rally in Mumbai tomorrow. We will hold rallies all over the country. Farmers are suffering everywhere. The only way to get rid of the problems is to give legal backing to MSP," he said.He also condemned the violence that happened at Red fort on January 26 and said that Bharatiya Kisan Union has no connection with those responsible.Speaking about his upcoming visit to West Bengal and the extension of the agitation to West Bengal, he said: "We will talk to farmers there. Their crops are not being sold at MSP. We have got nothing to do with elections."He dismissed any possibility of him entering the political arena."Politics is a big disease, I will stay away from it," he said.In view of the protest, Railways has deployed 20 additional companies of the Railway Protection Special Force across the country with a focus on Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal.Farmers have been protesting at the different borders of the national capital since November last year, against the three newly enacted farm laws - Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rail-roko-will-be-peaceful-will-not-join-politics-rakesh-tikait-101613627158660.html
18-02-2021||India||'Metro man' E Sreedharan set to join Bharatiya Janata Party||Elattuvalapil Sreedharan, the man behind India's expansive and ambitious metro rail project in Delhi, is expected to join the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) next, he announced on Thursday. Sreedharan, who is leading a semi-retired life in his ancestral home in Ponnani (Malappuram) district, confirmed the report. “It is true, I will join the BJP. I have been staying in the state for last ten years and observing political climate. Both fronts, ruling LDF and opposition UDF, are interested furthering their organizations," the 88-year-old said. Explaining his entry and politcal debut, he said, "The state has immense potential, but development takes a backseat always. If I can do something positive, I will be happy,” he said.Also read | Sreedharan: India's 'Metro man' put Delhi on fast trackSreedharan said that he found the BJP different from other parties. He said party state leaders had approached him last week and he agreed to their suggestion. When asked whether some central leaders have called him, he refused to comment.“They suggested me to contest in the upcoming assembly election. I agreed to this also. It is for the party to decide where I should contest,” he said. The veteran engineer said he will be into healthy politics and not interested in mere mudslinging or gimmicks.Wielding enough respect and standing, his entry will be a big boost to the saffron party in Kerala where the party remains a distant third-runner.Sreedharan retired as chief of Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) on December 31, 2011.The Indian engineer acquired the sobriquet of the 'Metro man' of India after he oversaw the launch of the metro rail project - a showpiece of the modern urban infrastructure.Sreedharan's entry into ruling Bharatiya Janata Party comes ahead of the state's legislative assembly elections this year as the party faces a bitter fight with the Kerala's chief minister-led Communist Party of India (Marxist) - a key player in alliance of United Democratic Front (UDF).The 88-year-old helmed the affairs of the DMRC since its inception and played an instrumental role in the completion of the project within the budget and well ahead of schedule.Delhi Metro uses some of the most advanced technology in the field of civil, electrical, signalling and telecommunication engineering worldwide.Delhi Metro started its services in 2002, and has increased its network to about 389 km with 285 stations (including Noida-Greater Noida Corridor and Rapid Metro, Gurugram) in record time. The rail connectivity has boosted the idea of public transport in the national capital as the network is used rapidly by millions every day for office, school, business and daily commute. The network connects people of the National Capital Region (NCR) to Delhi by including stations in Noida and Ghaziabad in Uttar Pradesh, Gurgaon, Faridabad, Bahadurgarh and Ballabhgarh in Haryana.Also read: Delhi Metro to go contactless as DMRC pushes for QR code, RuPay-based ticketingThe Delhi metro makes 2,700 trips per day with average daily ridership at 2.86 million, who on an average travel a distance of 17 kilometres each, the rail network had said in its release.The DMRC served 100 crore riders in the financial year 2019-20.Born on June 12, 1932 in Palakkad district of Kerala, Sreedharan has been among the driving force behind some of the most successful railway and metro projects in India. To his credit, he also has the successful construction of Konkan Railways - the largest rail project in India after independence by linking the west coast of India.Sreedharan graduated from the Government Engineering College, Kakinada, and later joined the Indian Railways in its Service of Engineers.He has been conferred several honours, including the country's fourth highest civilian award Padma Shri in 2001. The Time magazine named him an Asian Hero in 2003.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/metro-man-e-sreedharan-set-to-join-bharatiya-janata-party-101613629452445.html
18-02-2021||India||RJD MP Manoj Jha slams Giriraj Singh after controversial tweet, asks Centre to make him ambassador to Italy||Slamming Union Minister Giriraj Singh for tweeting in Italian, RJD MP Manoj Jha on Wednesday said that he would request Prime Minister Narendra Modi to make Singh the Ambassador to Italy."We know the reality of his (Giriraj Singh's) ministry. Today I saw his tweet in Italian and I would urge the Prime Minister that since he is not interested to work for his ministry, and has such immense knowledge about Italy, he should be appointed as the ambassador to the country. His knowledge about the country will help in bettering the relationship between the two countries," said Jha.Jha's comment came after Giriraj Singh, while taking a swipe at Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, tweeted in Italian."Caro Raul (Rahul Gandhi), Non esiste un Ministero della pesca separato in Italia. Viene sotto Ministero delle Politiche Agricole e Forestali," Tweeted the Minister which roughly translates to "Dear Rahul, There is no separate Ministry of Fisheries in Italy. It comes under the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry,"Earlier, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi while talking to the fishermen community in Puducherry had said, "Government passed three bills against farmers, the backbone of a nation. You must be wondering why am I talking about farmers at a meeting of fishermen. I consider you as farmers of the sea. If farmers of land can have a ministry in Delhi, why is it that farmers of the sea don't have the same."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rjd-mp-manoj-jha-slams-giriraj-singh-after-controversial-tweet-asks-centre-to-make-him-ambassador-to-italy-101613629083763.html
18-02-2021||India||Disha Ravi moves Delhi HC to stop police from leaking probe material to media||Climate activist Disha Ravi, arrested for alleged involvement in sharing a toolkit backing the farmers' protest, on Thursday moved the Delhi High Court seeking to restrain police from leaking to the media any probe material in relation to the FIR lodged against her.Advocate Abhinav Sekhri, one of the lawyers representing Ravi, said he is waiting for the matter to be listed for hearing in the high court and then only he can comment about it.The petition also seeks to restrain the media from publishing the content or extract of any alleged private chats, including those on WhatsApp, between her and third parties.The Delhi Police, probing the "toolkit Google doc" backing the farmers' agitation shared by climate activist Greta Thunberg, had arrested Ravi while Mumbai lawyer Jacob and Pune engineer Shantanu Muluk have been granted pre-arrest bail by courtA Delhi court had on February 14 sent Ravi to five day police custody after the agency said her custodial interrogation was required to probe an alleged larger conspiracy against the government of India and to ascertain her alleged role relating to the Khalistan movement.Ravi was arrested by a Cyber Cell team of the Delhi Police from Bengaluru on February 13 and was produced before a court here seeking her police custody for seven days.While seeking her custody, the police had told the court that the activist had allegedly edited the toolkit and many other people were involved in the matter. A toolkit is a document created to explain any issue. It also provides information on what one needs to do to address the issue. This might include information about petitions, details about protests and mass movements.Earlier, the Delhi Police had asked Google and some social media giants to provide information about email id, URLs and certain social media accounts related to the creators of the toolkit shared by Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg and others on Twitter in connection with the farmers' protest.The Cyber Cell had lodged an FIR against "pro-Khalistan" creators of the toolkit for waging a "social, cultural and economic war against the government of India".The case against unnamed persons was registered on charges of criminal conspiracy, sedition and various other sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).The toolkit was aimed at spreading disaffection and ill-will against the government of India and creating disharmony among various social, religious and cultural groups, the police had claimed. PTI HMP DV DV||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/disha-ravi-moves-delhi-hc-to-stop-police-from-leaking-probe-material-to-media-101613628913800.html
18-02-2021||India||'On popular demand': PM Modi's 'Pariksha pe Charcha' to also include parents and teachers||In the fourth edition of dialogue with students appearing for their examination, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will also engage with parents and teachers - a departure from last three years - in this year's interaction.The Prime Minister's annual interaction with students - aimed at boosting morale and confidence - will be held online this year in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal said on Thursday.Shortly after the announcement of initiative, PM Modi wrote in a tweet, "As our brave #ExamWarriors start padding up for their exams, ‘Pariksha Pe Charcha 2021’ returns, this time fully online and open to students all over the world.""Come, let us appear for the exams with a smile and without stress!" the PM said.Fulfilling a 'popular demand', PM Modi informed that this year's edition will also invite parents and teachers for the dialogue."On popular demand, ‘Pariksha Pe Charcha 2021’ will also include parents and teachers. It’ll be a fun filled discussion on an otherwise serious subject. I call upon my student friends, their amazing parents and hardworking teachers to take part in #PPC2021 in large numbers," PM Modi said in a tweet.On popular demand, ‘Pariksha Pe Charcha 2021’ will also include parents and teachers. It’ll be a fun filled discussion on an otherwise serious subject. I call upon my student friends, their amazing parents and hardworking teachers to take part in #PPC2021 in large numbers.The interaction with students from classes 9 to 12 ahead of their exams will be held in March, officials said.The registration for the programme will begin on Thursday and conclude on March 14. Students who will get to ask questions will be selected through a competition.The first edition of the Prime Minister's interaction programme with school and college students ‘Pariksha Pe Charcha 1.0’ was held at Talkatora Stadium on February 16, 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ppc2021-on-popular-demand-pm-modi-s-pariksha-pe-charcha-to-also-include-parents-and-teachers-101613626465926.html
18-02-2021||India||Odisha govt to spend ₹200 crore to revamp Kalinga Studio||The Odisha government has decided to invest ₹200 crore to renovate Kalinga Studio here to boost the Odisha film industry and create employment opportunities in the sector, an official said on Thursday.During a meeting held on Wednesday, Chief Secretary S C Mohapatra directed the authorities to develop the facility as a film hub and tourist destination."Kalinga Studio stands over an area of around 26 acres. The facility can be developed as a modern film centre with promising business prospects," industries secretary Hemant Sharma said after presenting the ₹200-crore renovation plan at the meeting.The facility currently has recording and editing units, indoor shooting space, gardens, temples and cottages, and was generating an average revenue of ₹4 lakh per month, the official said.Mohapatra had recently visited the premises of Kalinga Studio and suggested to run the unit on a "functional outsourcing model"."The revamped studio will have indoor shooting floors, theme-based gardens, film tech zone, snow world, adventure land, food courts, lodging facilities for members of film production teams and space for social programmes," the official said.The Odisha Industrial Infrastructure Development Corporation will be the implementing agency, he said, adding that the government has set a target to complete the construction and landscaping of the core area by December 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-govt-to-spend-rs-200-crore-to-revamp-kalinga-studio-101613626091448.html
18-02-2021||India||Over 120K died due to air pollution in India in 2020: Greenpeace||Over 120,000 people died in India (at least 12,000 in Bengaluru alone) in 2020 as a result of air pollution and related problems, according to the Greenpeace Southeast Asia Analysis of IQAir data. The report also stated that air pollution caused economic damages to the tune of ₹2 lakh crore in India, including about ₹12,365 crore in Bengaluru.The report titled “Greenpeace: Cost to Economy Due to Air Pollution Analysis 2021” was released by Greenpeace, a global climate action advisory group, on Thursday.“The cost estimator also estimated air pollution-related economic losses to be about ₹1,23,65,15,40,000 in six Indian cities. The damage is equally worrying in other Indian cities. An estimated 25,000 avoidable deaths in Mumbai in 2020 have been attributed to air pollution. Bengaluru, Chennai, Hyderabad and Delhi estimated an approximate 12,000, 11,000, 11,000, and 54,000 avoidable deaths respectively due to polluted air,” Greenpeace said in a statement on Thursday.Also Read | How commuters are exposed to pollutionA cost estimator is an online tool that tracks the real-time health impact and economic costs of air pollution in major world cities, Greenpeace said.Indian urban centres are becoming increasingly congested due to migration for education, employment and better quality of life. But the increasing population has led to a rise in pollution levels due to the use of private cars, felling of trees to widen roads, construction of new housing and public infrastructure to accommodate migrant workers—both white and blue collar.Bengaluru has 9.4 million vehicles in an area of just around 820 square kilometres.Vehicular pollution is the single biggest reason for deteriorating air quality in India’s IT capital, followed by construction and other reasons, according to the government.While the Covid-19-induced lockdown brought some reprieve to the environment, lifting of restrictions has hastened the deteriorating quality of air, water and overall quality of life.“Despite recording relatively better air quality this year due to strict lockdown, air pollution continues to be a serious public health issue which also drastically impacts our economy. For the governments of the day, it is crucial that investments are made towards green and sustainable solutions. When we choose fossil fuel over clean energy, our health is put at stake. Polluted air increases the likelihood of deaths due to cancer & stroke, spike in asthma attacks and worsens severity of Covid-19 symptoms,” Avinash Chanchal, climate campaigner, Greenpeace India, said in a statement.Air pollution claimed 160,000 deaths globally in 2020, according to the report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-120k-died-due-to-air-pollution-in-india-in-2020-greenpeace-101613628725846.html
18-02-2021||India||Petrol price hike impact: Cheap fuel smuggled in from Nepal||The rising price of petrol has led to an interesting development in states which border India's neighbouring country Nepal. Petrol is cheaper by around ₹22 there.According to Hindustan Times' sister publication Livehindustan, some people in Bihar's Araria and Kishanganj are crossing the border using narrow tracks, away from the main roads, to smuggle in the petrol. Many such people have been caught by local police and SSB jawans, Livehindustan reported.While petrol is retailing at ₹93.50 per litre in Bihar's Araria, it is available at ₹70.62 in Nepal, according to Livehindustan.Also Read: Petrol price touches ₹100 mark in RajasthanNepal gets the supply of petrol from India. According to an old treaty between the two countries, Indian Oil Corporation (IOC) imports petrol for Nepal from the Gulf countries. It is sold at the cost price, only refinery fees is charged due to which the fuel retails cheap in the Himalayan country."The smuggling of petrol from Nepal is affecting the sales in domestic market," said Sudhir Kumar, who owns a fuel station in Jogbani town.The Deputy Inspector General (DIG) of SSB, SK Sarangi, was quoted as saying by Livehindustan that patrolling has been intensified in border areas. Kishanganj SP Kumar Ashish said the patrolling will be done along with SSB and instructions will be given to all police stations.There are many areas in interior parts of Bihar where people easily cross the border through narrow tracks. The petrol that is brought in illegally from Nepal is sold to small retailers at less price.Meanwhile, petrol price was hiked by 34 paise per litre and diesel by 32 paise on Thursday, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers.After the relentless hike over the last 10 days, petrol is nearing ₹100 mark in many cities across India.Fuel prices differ from state to state depending on the incidence of local taxes such as VAT and freight charges. Rajasthan levies the highest value-added tax (VAT) on petrol in the country, followed by Madhya Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/petrol-price-hike-impact-cheap-fuel-smuggled-in-from-nepal-101613628078991.html
18-02-2021||India||Indian president-elect of Oxford student union quits after racism row||Rashmi Samant, the first Indian woman to be elected president of the Oxford University Student Union, has quit after the emergence of old social media posts that were deemed to be “racist” and “insensitive”. The posts, mostly on Instagram, included one with a play on words about the Holocaust and a photo of her visit to Malaysia with the caption “Ching Chang”. Both were deemed offensive by Jewish and Chinese students. She also upset others by comparing imperialist Cecil Rhodes to Adolf Hitler in a Student Union debate, and for separating “women” and “transwomen” in an Instagram caption. Although Samant initially offered an apology for the social media posts, some of which dated back to 2017, in the form of an open letter, she quit as president-elect on Wednesday after facing continued criticism. She announced her resignation on Facebook, writing: “In light of the recent events surrounding my election to the Presidency of the Oxford SU, I believe it is best for me to step down from the role. It has been an honour to be your President-elect.” Also Read | Indian elected as Oxford University Student Union presidentSamant, an alumna of Karnataka’s Manipal Institute of Technology, was elected president of the student union last week. The student of MSc in energy systems at Linacre College received 1,966 of the 3,708 votes in the highest turnout for a student union election. She belongs to Manipal town in Udupi district. Her father, Dinesh Samant, is a businessman and her mother, Vathsala, a homemaker. Samant did her schooling in Udupi and graduated in mechanical engineering in 2020. She had positioned herself as an “inclusivity” candidate in the election and campaigned to “decolonise” the Oxford syllabus and to remove all statues proven to be imperialist, including that of Christopher Codrington at the Conference of Colleges. One Instagram post that showed her at the Holocaust Memorial in Berlin in 2017 was captioned: “The memorial *CASTS* a *HOLLOW* dream of the past atrocities and deeds.” Samant contended this was an attempt at punning on words that was hampered by the fact that she is a “non-native English student” and that she “wouldn’t even dare to be insensitive” about such a topic but the post led to her being accused of being “insensitive” by Jewish students. Another post showing her outside a Buddhist temple in Malaysia had the caption “Ching Chang”. Though Samant claimed the phrase translated from Mandarin to “eat the plants” and was a joke about her being unable to find any vegetarian food at the temple, Chinese students said the term was a reverse Google Translation not used by native Mandarin speakers. Samant upset others by writing “women, transwomen and men” – thus separating women from transwomen – in an Instagram caption and was accused of transphobia. She quit after facing pressure from the Oxford University Chinese Society, Oxford Campaign for Racial Awareness and Equality and the LGBTQ+ Campaign. The Oxford University Chinese Society (OUCS) responded to Samant’s initial apology by saying: “Regrettably, we have not yet heard anything directly from Rashmi Samant. Her long-overdue public apology does not seem sincere to the OUCS. In her apology letter, Rashmi seems to be avoiding addressing her mistakes directly, and it does not show her taking responsibility for her insensitivity to race or ignorance towards the trans-community. We cannot see Rashmi as the SU president we ‘rightfully deserve’ or trust.” However, the Free Speech Union defended Samant, saying it was disappointed to see her resign. “She has apologised for the things she said and that should have been enough,” a spokesperson for Free Speech Union told MailOnline. “Publicly shaming young people and hounding them from the public square just because they’ve said something a bit daft on social media will deter all but the most boring to get involved in student politics,” the spokesperson added. The Oxford Student Union Sabbatical Officers issued a statement to apologise for the “hurt and discomfort caused by the actions of the president-elect” and said: “Oxford SU has a no tolerance policy towards discrimination. Racism, transphobia, and anti-Semitism have no place in our organisation.” A by-election will now be held to choose a new student union president.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-president-elect-of-oxford-student-union-quits-after-racism-row-101613628244954.html
18-02-2021||India||SC disposes of suo motu proceedings on larger conspiracy against ex-CJI Ranjan Gogoi||The Supreme Court on Thursday closed the suo motu proceedings initiated by it in April 2019 to probe into the larger conspiracy behind allegations of sexual harassment leveled against then CJI Ranjan Gogoi.A report filed by the one-man judge Committee headed by former SC judge, Justice (Retd) AK Patnaik that was set up to examine the veracity of allegations of conspiracy leveled by a lawyer Utsav Bains, was submitted to the Court.After going through the report, a three-judge bench headed by Justice SK Kaul said, "The report acknowledges the existence of conspiracy cannot be ruled out."However, in view of the limited mandate given to the Committee set up only to go into allegations made by Utsav Bains and not the merits of sexual harassment charges against ex-CJI Gogoi, the Committee felt constrained to proceed further. Also this exercise would require collection of electronic evidence in form of conversations on WhatsApp and Telegram.As two years have elapsed and recovery of this electronic evidence would be difficult, the bench said, "No purpose will be served in continuing the proceedings. Accordingly the suo moto proceedings are closed."The Justice Patnaik Committee recorded in its report that the Director Intelligence Bureau was of the view that the then CJI Gogoi having taken several tough decisions relating to the National Register of Citizens (NRC), there was "strong reasons to believe that such judgments may have acted as trigger to make such allegations (of sexual harassment) against then CJI".Also, Justice Patnaik in his report said that some tough administrative decisions taken by then CJI to streamline the Registry of SC could also have acted as the trigger.However, in view of limited mandate given to the Committee, the three-judge bench said, "in view of the limited mandate under the April 24, 2019 order the report opines that it cannot really enquire whether decision of CJI on judicial side in sensitive matters triggered off the conspiracy against the then CJI as remit of the Committee was only to enquire allegations made by Utsav Bains. Also in view of fact 2 years have passed and recovery of electronic record is unlikely, specifically keeping in mind the scope of enquiry.... No purpose will be served in continuing these proceedings."The suo motu proceedings were initiated by a bench headed by former SC judge Justice Arun Mishra in April 2019. Later a lawyer Utsav Bains filed an affidavit making allegations of a conspiracy to malign then CJI hatched by persons in collusion with two dismissed employees of SC Registry. All his allegations were handed to Court in sealed cover and the same was forwarded to Justice Patnaik Committee.Following the hearing today, Court ordered the report submitted by Justice Patnaik to be placed in sealed cover.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-disposes-off-suo-motu-proceedings-against-former-cji-ranjan-gogoi-in-sexual-harassment-case-says-conspiracy-can-t-be-ruled-out-101613627495617.html
18-02-2021||India||Ahead of ‘rail roko’ protest, Rakesh Tikait says ‘trains aren’t plying anyway’||As farmers gather support for their nationwide ‘rail roko’ call on Thursday afternoon, Bharatiya Kisan Union Rakesh Tikait asserted that the demonstration will be peaceful and added that they will also offer refreshments to passengers stuck during the four-hour blockade.He told the new agency ANI that the demonstration will begin at 12noon and go on till 3-4pm. “Trains aren't plying anyway. It'll be done peacefully. We'll provide water, milk, lassi & fruits to people who will be found stranded. We will tell them our issues,” he said ahead of the blockade."We will welcome trains and passengers will flower garlands. We have intensified the campaign to keep farmers active on social media. We instructed dozens of farmers today and also created their profiles on social media,"Kisan Andolan Committee spokesperson Jagtar Singh Bajwa told ANI.Follow latest updates on farm stir here When asked if the ‘rail roko’ agitation will be extended to poll-bound West Bengal too, Tikait told ANI, “Their crops are not being sold on MSP. We have got nothing to do with elections. We will talk to the farmers there.”On Wednesday, the farm union leader had reiterated his stand to hold panchayats in the eastern state and said that he will raise issues of farmers there. Tikait and other farmers’ leaders have been holding panchayats regularly in Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and other areas in the national Capital region to gather support for the ongoing agitation.The railways have stepped up security and deployed 20 additional companies across Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal to prevent the protests from taking a violent turn. They have also appealed to farmers to ensure that the protest remains peaceful and no inconvenience is caused to passengers.High security was also seen at Haryana’s Palwal railway station and Ghaziabad Junction in Uttar Pradesh ahead of the blockade.A day before the ‘rail roko’ programme, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha had on Wednesday accused the Centre of trying to "counter and destroy" the farmers' movement against the new agricultural laws.Earlier this month farmer unions had called a 'chakka jam' and a 'tractor parade' in Delhi on January 26. The Republic Day protest had turned violent as clashes broke out between the police and protesters. A section of protesters also hoisted a religious flag from the ramparts of the Red Fort following which several cases have been registered and arrests have been made in connection with the violence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-rail-roko-protest-rakesh-tikait-says-trains-aren-t-plying-anyway-101613626630408.html
18-02-2021||India||Maharashtra minister Jayant Patil tests positive for Covid-19||Maharashtra water resources minister and state NCP chief Jayant Patil on Thursday said he has tested positive for coronavirus.In a post on Twitter, the minister also said he is doing fine and taking appropriate medical advice.Patil, who earlier this month visited parts of the state during the 'Rashtravadi Parivar Samvad Yatra' (an initiative to reach out to NCP leaders and workers), also asked those who came in contact with him recently to be observant and self-isolate."I have tested Covid positive. Whilst I am doing fine, I am taking appropriate medical advice and hope to recover soon. I shall be undertaking my duties via video-conference," he tweeted.Also read| India to test travellers from Brazil, South Africa, UK after new virus strainsEarlier this month, state ministers Anil Deshmukh, Satej Patil and Rajendra Shingne also tested positive for the coronavirus infection.Deshmukh was discharged from a hospital in Nagpur, where he was undergoing treatment, on February 15.Last year, over a dozen state ministers, including Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar, were infected by the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-minister-jayant-patil-tests-positive-for-covid19-101613625039427.html
18-02-2021||India||5 Indian-origin persons, Indian activist feature in TIME magazine's list of 100 emerging leaders||Five Indian-origin personalities, including Twitter’s top lawyer Vijaya Gadde and UK’s finance minister Rishi Sunak, and an Indian activist feature in TIME magazine’s annual list of 100 “emerging leaders who are shaping the future".The 2021 TIME100 Next, released on Wednesday, is an expansion of TIME’s flagship TIME100 franchise of the most influential people in the world and highlights 100 emerging leaders who are shaping the future.“Everyone on this list is poised to make history. And in fact, many already have,” Dan Macsai, the editorial director of the TIME100, said.Other Indian-origin personalities on the list are Instacart founder and CEO Apoorva Mehta, doctor and Executive Director of nonprofit Get Us PPE Shikha Gupta and founder of nonprofit Upsolve Rohan Pavuluri.Bhim Army chief Chandra Shekhar Aazad is also on the list.Sunak’s profile in the TIME feature says that a little over a year ago, the 40-year old was an “unknown junior minister in the British government” but after he was named to lead Britain’s Treasury last year, he “quickly became the benevolent face of the government’s response to the Covid-19 pandemic, approving large handouts for many citizens whose jobs were disrupted by the virus.”Sunak has however also been criticised for advocating early relaxation of lockdown rules, the profile said."Nonetheless, Sunak remains the country’s most popular politician, according to the pollster YouGov. And he’s the oddsmakers’ favourite to be Britain’s next Prime Minister,” it added.On Mehta, 34, the TIME profile said that in the initial days of the Covid-19 pandemic, Instacart “faced a tidal wave of orders, as people with means opted en masse to pay the service’s workers to buy groceries for them.” Mehta describes that period as a “wartime moment,” it said.However, later Instacart also “faced new criticism about the way it treated its workers, including labyrinthine sick-pay policies, frequent rule changes for shoppers and demanding performance metrics.” Instacart continues its focus on expansion. “The smartphone is the supermarket of the future. We are going to help co-create that,” Mehta said in the TIME article.The TIME profile described Gadde, 46, as “one of Twitter’s most powerful executives” who was the one to convey the news to CEO Jack Dorsey that President Donald Trump’s Twitter account had been suspended following the Capitol attack of January 6.Dorsey "has delegated to her Twitter’s content-moderation decisions; she was the architect of the 2019 decision to ban all political advertising, and is responsible for the warning labels that Twitter applied to Covid-19 and election-interference misinformation in 2020."While Twitter is still home to much misinformation and harassment, Gadde’s influence is slowly turning the company into one that sees free speech not as sacrosanct, but as just one human right among many that need to be weighed against one another,” the TIME profile said.Aazad, 34, is the leader of the Bhim Army, which runs schools to help Dalits escape poverty through education and also “practices a distinct brand of assertiveness, sweeping into villages on loud motorbikes to protect victims of caste-based violence and organising provocative demonstrations against discrimination,” the TIME profile on him says.Aazad and the Bhim army also “spearheaded a campaign for justice” in the case of the fatal gang-rape of a 19-year old Dalit woman in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras.TIME said Gupta and her team stepped up to meet the growing demand for personal protective equipment for healthcare professionals at a time when there was a “leadership vacuum” from the White House.“In a crisis, small acts can make a big impact. And in extraordinary times, ordinary people, driven by service, can do extraordinary things. The early days of the Covid-19 pandemic were some of the darkest in America’s history. A leadership vacuum from the White House contributed to health care professionals across the country lacking the personal protective equipment they needed to stay safe and save lives,” it said.Gupta, who “wasn’t on the White House Task Force” or a governor or member of Congress, took action to solve the problem.Gupta leads the Get Us PPE organisation and along with a group of medical professionals and team members, the organisation helped distribute more than 6.5 million pieces of PPE to frontline workers.Pavuluri is the 25-year founder of the free online tool that helps users fill out bankruptcy forms on their own.TIME said that as the Covid-19 pandemic brought varied economic hardships to Americans, filing for personal bankruptcy was seen as an effective way to eliminate debt but entailed high legal costs and complex paperwork.Upsolve, which Pavuluri founded in 2018, has till date helped American users relieve more than USD 300 million in debt, the TIME profile of him said.“We’ve found a way to use technology to address a civil rights injustice at scale,” Pavuluri said in the TIME profile.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-indian-origin-persons-indian-activist-feature-in-time-magazine-s-list-of-100-emerging-leaders-101613625092634.html
18-02-2021||India||Maha Kumbh 2021 limited to 30 days, to begin on April 1||Due to the ongoing coronavirus pandemic, the Uttarakhand government has decided to limit the Kumbh this year for 30 days, Chief Secretary Om Prakash said on Thursday.The government will issue the notice by the end of March stating that this time Kumbh will be held from April 1 to April 30. The decision is taken to prevent the spread of Covid-19 infection, he added.The state government has also emphasised reducing the duration of Kumbh as they fear becoming a hot spot of the virus.Earlier, the Haridwar District Magistrate C Ravishankar said that pilgrims will need passes to attend Kumbh."Pilgrims will need passes for Kumbh and the passes will be issued only after submission of a negative RT-PCR test report, medical certificate, and identification proof. Those without passes will be denied entry," said Ravishankar.Also read| India’s Covid-19 tally soars past 10.95 million with 12,881 cases in 24 hoursHe also informed that the district administration has demanded 70,000 doses of Covid-19 vaccines for the personnel posted on duty to ensure their safety.The Kumbh administration has also put cameras at the Ganga Ghats to monitor the crowd.Haridwar has been turned into a hub of mythology-themed colourful wall graffiti to make devotees and tourists aware of its significance in the ongoing Maha Kumbh Mela, under the campaign called "Paint My City", run by the Haridwar-Roorkee Development Authority.Describing Kumbh as a festival of colours, Mela Deputy Officer Harbir Singh said that graffiti depicting Hindu mythology and Uttarakhand culture has been installed across walls, bridges, Government buildings, and other spaces available in Haridwar.The Maha Kumbh is celebrated in a cycle of 12 years at four river-bank pilgrimage sites across India. The fair will conclude in the last week of April.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maha-kumbh-2021-limited-to-30-days-to-begin-on-april-1-101613620599502.html
18-02-2021||India||PM Modi’s 'Pariksha Pe Charcha' to be held online due to Covid-19: Union minister Pokhriyal||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s annual interaction with students 'Pariksha Pe Charcha' will be held online in this year in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ said on Thursday.The interaction with students from classes 9 to 12 ahead of their exams will be held in March, the minister said."I feel happy to share that the interaction every student was waiting for is back! Get ready to smile your way through exams with PM @narendramodi in #ParikshaPeCharcha2021," he said in a tweet.विद्यार्थियों के परीक्षा के तनाव को कम कर उन्हें प्रेरणा एवं मार्गदर्शन प्रदान करने हेतु यशस्वी PM श्री @narendramodi जी का अद्वितीय संवाद कार्यक्रम #ParikshaPeCharcha2021 का चौथा संस्करण मार्च 2021 में आयोजित किया जा रहा है। @mygovindia @EduMinOfIndia @PMOIndia #PPC2021 pic.twitter.com/uu3t2NhxPP“In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, this year the interaction will be conducted online,” he said in another tweet.The registration for the programme will begin from Thursday and conclude on March 14. Students who will get to ask questions will be selected through a competition.The first edition of the prime minister's interaction programme with school and college students ‘Pariksha Pe Charcha 1.0’ was held at Talkatora Stadium on February 16, 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-s-pariksha-pe-charcha-to-be-held-online-due-to-covid-19-union-minister-pokhriyal-101613623719565.html
18-02-2021||India||SP leaders protest outside Uttar Pradesh Assembly as budget session begins||The Samajwadi Party (SP) is protesting against the Yogi Adityanath government outside the Uttar Pradesh Assembly. the protest comes on a day when the budget session of the state assembly is slated to begin.The SP leaders are raising issues related to farmers, law and order and unemployment. Two of party's MLCs - Anurag Bhadauria and Sunil Singh Yadav - even came on a tractor to the assembly.Uttar Pradesh finance minister Suresh Khanna is expected to table the budget at 11 am on Monday, news agency ANI reported. The session will continue till March 10.Like the Union Budget, Khanna too will present a paperless budget this year. He will read the budget presentation from a tablet.SP leader Ram Govind Chaudhary, Leader of Opposition in state Assembly, had opposed the idea of the paperless budget saying that it would result in many people suffering financial losses or even losing their jobs."I oppose the paperless budget because Uttar Pradesh is a state of manpower. With the budget going paperless, there would be three losses. If everything goes paperless, farmers will bear losses as they grow raw materials for paper," he said."At printing press, people will not have work as the paper will not be printed. If paper factories shut down, then lakhs of people will get unemployed. The state government sees only benefits of technology but it is not seeing who will suffer due to it," Chaudhary added.Speaker Hriday Nath Dikshit had called an all-party meeting on Wednesday to seek cooperation from state leaders in smooth conduct of the session."We are hoping that Uttar Pradesh will get something from this budget. This is the last budget of the BJP government. This budget should be paperless but not 'vikasless' (without development). In the last 4 years, BJP leaders, ministers, and officials looted money allocated in the budget," SP leader Sunil Singh Yadav said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sp-leader-protest-outside-state-assembly-as-budget-session-begins-101613623063673.html
18-02-2021||India||Farmers call for nationwide ‘rail roko’ protest today: Key points||The railways has deployed 20 additional companies of the Railway Protection Special Force across the country with focus on Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal ahead of the four-hour rail roko protest called as part of the farmers’ agitation against the three farm laws passed in September. Here is all you need to know about the protest:• The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of farmer unions spearheading the protest, last week announced the rail blockade to press for its demand to repeal the legislation.• Director-General, Railway Protection Force, Arun Kumar on Wednesday appealed for peace and said they will liaison with district administrations and have a control room to monitor the protest.• He said states such as Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal will be their focus.• The SKM had said that the rail blockade will be held across the country from 12pm to 4pm.Also Read | Farmers call for 4-hour nationwide rail roko protest, railways steps up security• Northern railways is expecting the rail roko to be concentrated in Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh.• No decision was immediately taken on train movement in the backdrop of the blockade. • Officials said once they get a better picture of the status of the protests and have identified sensitive spots, they will put in place a plan of action. • They have identified around 80 trains which run through potentially sensitive areas and most of them would have crossed them before 12pm.• Railway unions, which had earlier supported the farmers’ movement, have distanced themselves from the rail roko protest.• The SKM on Wednesday accused the Centre of trying to “counter and destroy” the ‘ movement and said it has appealed for peaceful protests during the rail roko.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-call-for-nationwide-rail-roko-protest-today-key-points-101613623204901.html
18-02-2021||India||Bihar Budget Session from Friday, Congress yet to name House leader||The Congress is yet to nominate its leader in the Bihar legislative council nine months after the post was left vacant following Madan Mohan Jha’s retirement. Officials said Congress member Prem Chandra Mishra was invited to a meeting on Wednesday ahead of the Budget Session from February 19, as there was no authorised leader from the party. The Congress has four members in the 75-member House.Jha, who has been re-elected since, could not be contacted for comments.Also Read | Bihar Speaker tells departments to submit timely replies to members’ questionsCongress’s Bihar in-charge, Bhakta Charan Das, said he was unaware of the leadership vacancy and will discuss the issue with the party seniors on February 19, and take appropriate action.The budget session will continue till March 24 and is expected to be stormy. Opposition parties are gearing up to corner the government on issues such as law and order and farmers’ unrest.Mishra said they will raise issues related to the people’s interests during the session. “Deteriorating law and order, inordinate delay in launching recruitment process, rising prices of petroleum products...[will be raised].”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-budget-session-from-friday-congress-yet-to-name-house-leader-101613623084737.html
18-02-2021||India||Puducherry CM translates fisherwoman's complaint as a praise to Rahul Gandhi||Puducherry chief minister V Narayansamy on Wednesday falsely translated a fisherwoman's complaint to the Congress leader Rahul Gandhi during the latter's visit to the union territory.The Congress leader had gone to meet with the fishermen community, when the incident took place.The fisherwoman complained in Tamil, "He (CM Narayanasamy) is here. Did he visit us during Cyclone?"Also Read | No one can get justice without fearing consequences: Rahul GandhiWhen Gandhi looked upto the chief minister for translation, he said she is praising the government's efforts. "During the Nivar cyclone, I came and visited the area and gave relief to them. She says," the chief minister told Gandhi.A Twitter user highlighted the chief minister's false translation.During Rahul Gandhi interaction with fishermen lady says (in TAMIL) CM V Narayanasamy never visited us after Cyclone NiravNarayanswamy Translates to Rahul Gandhi : She saying that CM visited us after cyclone and gave relief materials to us. pic.twitter.com/2sw0bEKyjbRahul Gandhi's interaction with the community created much social media buzz after he asked for a separate ministry of fisheries for the fishermen community.Giriraj Singh, Union minister for fisheries, animal husbandry and dairying, along with Union textiles minister Smriti Irani took to Twitter to take a dig at the Congress leader's comment. The ministers tweeted in Italian to say that the Wayanad MP is trying to spread misinformation.Caro @girirajsinghbjpSanno solo una cosa. Diffondere bugie, paura e disinformazione. https://t.co/mBY7amqcqXGandhi had visited the union territory to kickstart the Congress' assembly election campaign ahead of the upcoming polls. Congress is keen to retain its government in the seaside city.During his visit, he met with the fishermen community, which constitutes a major segment of the union territory. He expressed the desire to travel with them in their boats and experience and understand more about their problems."...there is only so much one can understand by asking questions. Some things cannot be spoken. Some experiences cannot be explained. So I need one favour from you. Next time I come here, I want to go with you in the fishing boat to see what you experience," PTI reported Gandhi as saying.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/puducherry-cm-translates-fisherwoman-s-complaint-as-a-praise-to-rahul-gandhi-101613622241560.html
18-02-2021||India||UP Budget Session begins today; Opposition to corner govt on farmers’ protest||As the Uttar Pradesh assembly’s Budget Session begins today, major Opposition parties are set to corner the state government on issues concerning farmers, unemployment, rising inflation and the law and order situation.Governor Anandiben Patel’s address before the joint sitting of the two Houses would be 11am, marking the beginning of the Budget Session. Political parties are holding meetings of their legislature parties to work out their respective strategies.“We will raise a host of issues...We are demanding more sittings to allow a debate on various important issues and the Opposition has perfect floor coordination,” said Leader of Opposition Ram Govind Chaudhary after attending the all-party meeting that Speaker Hridaya Narain Dikshit had convened here on Wednesday to seek cooperation of all political parties for a smooth conduct of the business of the House.Also Read | UP Assembly Speaker seeks cooperation of all parties for smooth budget SessionChief minister Yogi Adityanath said the state government would present paperless budget for 2021-2022 in the House. He referred to state government’s successful strategy of checking the spread of Covid-19 and said the state government would like to have a meaningful debate on important issues in the House.Besides the chief minister, minister for parliamentary affairs and finance Suresh Khanna, Apna Dal leader Neel Ratan Singh Patel, BSP leader Lalji Verma and Congress Legislature Party leader Aradhana Mishra ‘Mona’ attended the meeting. Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party’s Triveni Ram attended the meeting in place of Om Prakash Rajbhar.CLP leader Mishra said, “We have requested the state government to have a longer Budget Session to have more time for debate on important issues.”After the Governor’s address on February 18, the House is likely to pay homage to former president Pranab Mukerjee and former UP governor Motilal Vora on February 19. The House is likely to begin debate on motion of thanks to the Governor for her address on the same day.The state assembly has allowed the members to attend the House virtually. As social distancing will be followed for the seating of members, arrangements have been made in galleries too.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/upbudget-session-begins-today-opposition-to-corner-govt-on-farmers-protest-101613622604907.html
18-02-2021||India||Petrol touches ₹100/litre mark in Rajasthan’s Ganganagar: All you need to know||Petrol price touched ₹100 a litre in Rajasthan’s Sri Ganganagar district and rose to record highs elsewhere on Wednesday. Here is all you need to know about the price rise:• ₹100 per litre retail price of petrol in Sri Ganganagar is the first time the fuel was sold at rates in the three digits anywhere in the country. In Delhi, petrol retailed at ₹89.54 a litre.• Sri Ganganagar pays the highest rate for the fuel since it is the furthest from a nearby dispatching facility, which adds to transportation costs that are passed on to the consumer.• Taxes account for more than 60% of the pump price of fuel. Part of these is central taxes and part, those levied by the state. Also Read | Petrol price climbs to ₹89.88/L in Delhi, diesel crosses ₹80-mark• In the case of Delhi, data available on the Indian Oil website shows that central excise duty and state value-added taxes added ₹32.9 and ₹20.61 per litre to the cost of petrol. • The base price, freight and dealer commission amounted to just ₹35.78 per litre for petrol. In effect, almost 60% of what people pay for petrol is taxes.• Prime Minister Narendra Modi criticised the previous governments for not doing enough to address India’s dependence on imports for oil.• Petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan appealed to major oil producers to relax their self-imposed production cuts.• Rising global crude oil prices and tight fiscal headroom appeared to limit the government’s ability to restrain the increase. • The government has urged the oil producers’ cartel – the Organisation of Petrol Exporting Countries – as well as allies such as Russia to ease production cuts as higher prices are hitting demand and adding to inflation.• Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot blamed the Centre for the high fuel prices as the latter has not reduced the taxes. He said if they reduce the taxes, then their revenue will decline. Gehlot said in view of the public sentiments, despite the pandemic, the state reduced 2% Value-Added Tax bringing a loss of ₹1,000 crore. • Experts say despite much lower global oil demand, the restricted supplies and production cuts by oil-exporting countries are some of the major reasons for high oil prices.• The government is not believed to be considering reducing the excise duty on fuel because of revenue concerns. • India’s fiscal deficit is high at 9.5% of the gross domestic product in 2020-21 because of the Covid-19 pandemic. The Budget has also proposed ₹12 lakh crore borrowings in FY22 that would mean a high fiscal deficit of 6.8% next fiscal year. • In these circumstances, the government has no space to immediately cut excise duties on petrol and diesel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/petrol-touches-100-litre-mark-in-rajasthan-s-ganganagar-all-you-need-to-know-101613622544821.html
18-02-2021||India||Mumbai witnesses rise in Covid-19 cases, records highest single-day spike||The number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases are on a rise in Mumbai. On Wednesday, the city recorded the highest single-day spike in cases since January 7 as it reported 721 new cases..The total number of cases in the metropolitan now stands at 315,751, while active cases are 5,943. Meanwhile, the doubling rate of Covid-19 cases has decreased in the city. On February 16, it would take 445 days for the coronavirus cases to double, this number decreased to 436 days on February 17, as per the data of BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC).Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19The average growth rate of the virus in the city is 0.16 per cent.Since the beginning of this week, the metropolitan had reported less than 500 daily coronavirus cases. On Monday, 493 new cases were reported and 461 fresh cases were reported on Tuesday.As per the BMC data, as of February 16, 2020, the city has a total of 61 active containment zones, with most number of them in ward N consisting of Ghatkopar, Vidyavihar and Pant Nagar and ward S having Bhandup, Powal, Kanjurmarh, Vikhroli and Nahur.Mulund in ward T has the most number of sealed buildings to contain the spread of coronavirus. 171 buildings in Mulund are sealed to curb the spread of the disease.Also Read | Petrol price climbs to ₹89.88/L in Delhi, diesel crosses ₹80-markThe BMC had on Wednesday reported an incident of severe negligence towards the Covid protocol. On a surprise inspection visit to a quarantine hotel in Santacruz, the mayor of Mumbai Kishori Kishor Pednekar and deputy mayor Suhas Wadkar had found that four quarantined travellers had fled the centre.A surprise inspection of a quarantine hotel in Santacruz by @mayor_mumbai Kishori Kishor Pednekar & Dy. Mayor @AdvSuhasWadkar revealed that 4 quarantined travellers had fled the center.Orders have been given to find & quarantine them & initiate due legal action.#NaToCorona pic.twitter.com/2zzfMBWL2VMaharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had earlier expressed his concern regarding the serious coronavirus situation in the state. He had said that the citizens have become carefree and not adhering to Covid safety protocols. The mayor of Mumbai, citing the same reasons, had also warned of imposing another lockdown in the city. Maharashtra on Wednesday had reported less than ,000 new Covid-19 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-witnesses-rise-in-covid-19-cases-records-highest-single-day-spike-101613613952346.html
18-02-2021||India||Priya Ramani vs MJ Akbar case: 5 takeaways from the order||A Delhi court acquitted former journalist Priya Ramani in a defamation case filed by former Union minister MJ Akbar. The latter had sued Ramani after she accused him of sexual harassment. The court said that a woman has the right to voice grievance several years after the alleged crime took place. Hindustan Times' National Political Editor Sunetra Choudhury explains 5 key takeaways from the verdict.1- Victim had to prove her intention: At the outset, Priya Ramani has won this historic case against sexual harassment but the biggest takeaway is that a woman who was sexually harassed had to prove her motives, that she was not guilty of defamation and was not making false allegations. It took more than 2 years for Priya to clear the tag of being an accused. Why? Because at the height of the #MeToo movement in 2017, she wrote an article that revealed how years ago then journalist MJ Akbar had harassed her by inviting her to his hotel room for a job interview. Ramani's charges were actually the mildest. Witness Ghazala Wahab's testimony reveals serious charges of assault and even rape by a journalist working in the US, Pallavi Gogoi2- Didn't “do'” anything: The judgment is significant because it drives the message home that you don't have to touch someone inappropriately to sexually harass them. MJ Akbar tried to use Priya Ramani's words that he ‘didn't do anything' to his defense and claimed, she tarnished his reputation. However, the judgment came down on such predatory behaviour. 16 women came out publicly to say that Akbar harassed them and the court upheld them all, from physical rape to just making someone feel uncomfortable.3- Women & the workplace: Judge Ravindra Kumar Pandey makes a strong argument for creating a better workplace for women in India. He uses journalist Ghazala Wahab's testimony to make the point that prevention of sexual harassment is a woman's right and is the reason why women make up only 25% of the workforce. Ghazala, who was harassed by Akbar in the '90s, recalls in her testimony how she got no help from her seniors and was even afraid to tell her parents because they would just make her quit her career. Now all workplaces have to have Prevention of Sexual Harassment at the Workplace (POSH) complaint cells but women are still wary for this very reason.4- `Women have a right to complain even after decades': One of the biggest challenges in sexual harassment cases is that women often don't speak up immediately after they've been harassed. In the 91- page judgment, the allegations came to light two decades later, and yet the court believes the women making the allegations. The court didn't get distracted by the gaslighting that it was all a conspiracy to tarnish a brilliant journalist's image. In the end, the fact that she had a witness who backed her up was enough for the court to believe her. The court says women have a right to speak about their experiences on any platform, even decades later.Also Read: Journalist Priya Ramani acquitted in defamation case5- Court on Akbar: Not a man of stellar reputation: MJ Akbar as former union minister has a long CV that he uses as a weapon against Priya Ramani. That he's written several books, been editor of several newspapers, and therefore he is the victim of a grand slander campaign. The court simply says that the accounts of the women prove that he “is not a man of a stellar reputation.” The court goes on to say that however respectable such a man is, “a woman cannot be punished for raising voice against sex abuse on the pretext of criminal complaint of defamation”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/priya-ramani-vs-mj-akbar-case-5-takeaways-from-the-order-101613621211188.html
18-02-2021||India||Congress sweeps Punjab municipal polls: All you need to know||The ruling Congress swept the local polls in Punjab and won a clear majority in six of the seven municipal corporations amid anger in the state over the three farm laws passed September that farmers say will hurt their livelihoods and help big corporations. The Congress has opposed the laws that have prompted farmers to stage sit-in protests at Delhi’s borders. Here is all you need to know about the civic polls:• 2,302 wards across 117 civic bodies including eight municipal corporations went to the polls on February 14. • Results for 2,150 wards were announced on Wednesday. Of these, the Congress won 1,360 wards. • The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which contested alone after its long-term ally, the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), quit their alliance, won 50, compared to the 248 in 2015 when 2,044 wards went to the polls. • SAD won 281 fewer than the 870 it did in 2015. Also Read | Farmers’ stir: Khaps agree to follow Samyukt Kisan Morcha’s lead• The Aam Aadmi Party, which did not contest the last elections, won 60 and independents 390, down from 624 last time.• The Congress in 2015 could not win a majority in any of the corporations that went to the polls on Sunday. • Elections to the state assembly are due in early 2022.• Results of the eighth municipal corporation, Mohali, will be announced on Thursday.• The six where the Congress has won a majority are Bathinda, Hoshiarpur, Kapurthala, Abohar, Batala, and Pathankot. • No party won the majority in Moga.• The Congress was also ahead of all other political parties in the majority of municipal councils and notified area councils.• Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh called the results a validation of his government’s policies and the rejection of anti-people and anti-farmer parties. • SAD’s Sukhbir Badal thanked his party workers for fighting the polls and challenging the “corrupt” and “incompetent” government.• Analysts said the Congress’s strong performance should be seen in the context of the farm protests.• Thousands of farmers have been protesting at Delhi’s borders for 84 days, seeking a repeal of the new farm laws, which they say will erode their bargaining power, weaken a system of assured prices, and leave them vulnerable to exploitation by big agri-businesses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-sweeps-punjab-municipal-polls-all-you-need-to-know-101613621705243.html
18-02-2021||India||Ramani acquitted in MJ Akbar defamation case: Key takeaways from the verdict||A Delhi court on Wednesday acquitted journalist Priya Ramani in a criminal defamation case filed after she accused former Union minister MJ Akbar of sexual misbehaviour during a work interview in December 1993. Here is all you need to know about the verdict:• The court emphasised that the right to protect one’s reputation cannot be at the cost of a woman’s right to dignity.• It pointed out that even a person of high social standing can be a sexual harasser, and that a woman cannot be punished for raising instances of abuse.• The court underlined the right of reputation cannot be protected at the cost of the right of life and dignity of woman guaranteed in the Constitution under Article 21, and right of equality before the law and equal protection of the law under Article 14.• It said the woman has a right to put her grievance at any platform of her choice and even after decades.Also Read | ‘Priya Ramani stood up for all who screamed #MeToo’: Twitter exults• Ramani hoped the verdict will encourage more women to speak up. • Her lawyer, Rebecca John, said that the path-breaking judgment upheld that no truth is exempted from the purview of defamation.• The case was filed after Ramani in October 2018 shared an article on Twitter written in 2017 in Vogue India magazine following allegations of sexual assault and misconduct against Hollywood producer Harvey Weinstein as part of the Me Too movement in the US. • The article did not name MJ Akbar. It described her experience of an interview with a newspaper editor for a reporter’s position. She named him in the tweet.• Akbar, who was a minister in the Bharatiya Janata Party-led government at the time, resigned shortly after a host of women, besides Ramani, made allegations of sexual misconduct and harassment against him.• He filed a criminal defamation suit under Section 500 of the Indian Penal Code, arguing that the incident was not as she described it in her article. He also said that a tweet by Ramani describing him as a predator had caused irreparable damage to his reputation.• Akbar’s lawyer Geeta Luthra argued that Ramani’s statements on Twitter were “per se defamatory” and questioned her decision to speak up several years after the purported incident. • Luthra pointed out that Ramani had no evidence in the form of CCTV footage or phone records to back her claim.• But the court recognised that no legal remedies were available to Ramani when she was sexually harassed.• The Vishaka Guidelines against sexual harassment, the Sexual Harassment of the Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act and Section 354 A, which made sexual harassment a criminal offence, came up in the subsequent years.• The court noted that many women opt not to complain even now due to the fear of stigma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ramani-acquitted-in-mj-akbar-defamation-case-all-you-need-to-know-about-the-court-verdict-101613621104976.html
18-02-2021||India||Farmers call for 4-hour nationwide 'rail roko' protest, railways step up security||Farm unions have called for a four-hour 'rail roko' demonstration across the country on Thursday as they continue to agitate against three agricultural laws enacted by the Centre in September last year. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), the umbrella body of 40 farm unions, has called for a peaceful protest between 12noon and 4pm, expecting to get support for the programme from across the nation.The railways, meanwhile, have stepped up security to prevent any untoward incident. Additional forces have been deployed across Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal. The Railway Protection Force (RPF) has deployed 20 additional companies across the four states.“We appeal to everyone to maintain peace calling for peaceful protests so as not to inconvenience passengers,” a railway ministry spokesperson said.As farmers prep for the blockade, director general, Railway Protection Force, Arun Kumar said, "I appeal to everyone to maintain peace. We will be liaisoning with district administrations and will have a control room in place," according to news agency PTI."We will gather intelligence. States such as Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal, and some other areas will be our focus" he said, adding that they want to persuade the protesting farmers to not cause inconvenience to passengers.“We have a four-hour window and we want it (rail roko) to get over peacefully," Kumar told PTI.An official, according to PTI, said that no decision has yet been taken on train movement in the backdrop of the rail blockade. "Once we get a better picture of the status of the protests and have identified sensitive spots, we will put in place a plan of action. We have around 80 trains which run through potentially sensitive areas and most of them would have passed through them before 12 pm," the official was quoted as saying.The SKM, meanwhile, criticized the government’s “attitude” and demanded that a solution to the farmers’ issues be arrived at without any further delay. "It is clear that instead of resolving the ongoing struggle's demands, BJP is trying its best to counter and destroy it...SKM vows that it will intensify the struggle and mobilise more farmers in its support," ANI quoted Darshan Pal of SKM as reading from a release.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-call-for-4-hour-nationwide-rail-roko-protest-railways-steps-up-security-101613620133114.html
18-02-2021||India||Farmers’ protest: Union minister Sanjeev Balyan chairs meet on Jat outreach||Union minister and BJP’s Jat leader Sanjeev Balyan on Wednesday pinned the blame on the Opposition for prolonging the farmers’ agitation and said political parties that have lost the people’s mandate are using the farmers’ stir to remain relevant. “We will explain to the farmers that the issue is being politicised by those Opposition parties that were nowhere… the Congress and the RLD have begun joining rallies. The farmers must have also realised this by now,” he said after a meeting with his party colleagues at his residence here. A Jat leader who represents the Muzaffarnagar constituency in the Lok Sabha and is also the minister of state for animal husbandry, dairying and fisheries, Balyan was closeted with elected representatives from the Jat dominated areas of Haryana, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh a day after the party brass instructed them to reach out to the Khaps and dispel their resentment against the farm laws. Also Read | Farmers’ protest: Sugarcane hub western Maharashtra remains largely silentParty chief JP Nadda and Union home minister Amit Shah had met these elected representatives on Tuesday to draw up a plan to stem a possible Jat agitation. The minister, who emerged as the face of the Jat community after defeating RLD strongman Ajit Singh, said the government is committed to finding a resolution to the stir through dialogue. He also tried to dispel concerns about the new laws in UP, especially in the western UP area, where the party fears a fallout of the agitation. “Contact farming is already happening in western UP. Farmers decide the prices at which they will sell to the sugar mills; if they feel the prices are more in the open market, they are free to sell outside also. APMC Act has also not affected the sugarcane farmers…” he said. While farmers from the region have thrown their weight behind Rakesh Tikait who has emerged as the face of the farmers’ agitation, Balyan pointed out how his father Mahendra Singh Tikait had advocated the need for allowing farmers to sell anywhere in the country. Also Read | No invite to BJP leaders for any function till farm laws scrapped: UP panchayatWhile the farmers have threatened to intensify their stir, the government is pulling out all stops from ensuring that a mobilisation of the Jat communities across states does not take the shape of an anti-BJP force. “There is a view in the party that the Jat leaders failed to read the sentiment on the ground and the crisis that could have been nipped in the bud has now turned into a problem for the party. Now all efforts are being made to ensure that the agitation does not hurt the BJP in the upcoming elections in UP,” said a leader privy to the meeting. The meeting of the Jat leaders coincided with the BJP’s setback in the municipal elections in Punjab, the epicentre of the protests against the farm laws. While the Congress swept all seven municipal corporations in the state local body elections, the BJP had poor showing even in stronghold such as Pathankot. “There is a concern that the Jats, who are a considerable votebank for the party, can benefit our opponents. Tikait himself has political ambitions and he has, in the past, lobbied for a ticket (from the BJP). He is using the agitation for fulfilling his political ambition and that is what we will go to people with,” the functionary said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-union-minister-sanjeev-balyan-chairs-meet-on-jat-outreach-101613620384705.html
18-02-2021||India||India’s Covid-19 tally soars past 10.95 million with 12,881 cases in 24 hours||India recorded 12,881 new cases of the coronavirus disease in the last 24 hours, according to Union health ministry update on Thursday. With this, the nationwide tally of the infection reached 10,950,201.The number of active cases went down by 793 and currently stand at 1,37,342.The country also recorded 101 fresh fatalities due to the disease in the said period, which pushed the death toll up to 1,56,014, according to health ministry.Principal Secretary to the Prime Minister Dr P K Mishra on Wednesday chaired a high-level meeting to review in detail the progress of the Covid-19 vaccination drive across the country and steps to accelerate the pace of inoculation.During the meeting, plans to involve private sector healthcare facilities in the vaccination drive for its expansion were also discussed, the health ministry said in a statement.So far, over 90 lakh Covid-19 vaccine doses have been administered to healthcare and frontline workers, according to government data.The national recovery rate has reached 97.33 per cent, the health ministry had said on Wednesday.India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, the 30-lakh mark on August 23, the 40-lakh mark on September 5 and the 50-lakh mark on September 16.It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and the one-crore mark on December 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-covid-19-tally-soars-past-10-95-million-with-12-881-cases-in-24-hours-101613619866610.html
18-02-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Petrol hikes to ₹89.88/L in Delhi, diesel crosses ₹80 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Petrol price climbs to ₹89.88/L in Delhi, diesel crosses ₹80-markFuel prices witnessed a hike for the 10th day in a row on Thursday with the rate of petrol increasing by 34 paise to cost ₹89.88 per litre in Delhi while diesel sold at ₹80.27 per litre, up by 32 paise. Read moreAustralian emergency services hit by Facebook ban on newsSeveral Australian emergency services were hit by Facebook's local ban on news content on Thursday, with pages that warn the public about Covid outbreaks, bushfires and cyclones rendered blank. Read moreFarmers’ protest: Delhi borders closed, traffic diverted to avoid jamsGhazipur, Tikri and Singhu borders continue to be blocked as farmers continue their agitation demanding withdrawal of the three farm laws. Delhi Police diverts traffic for peak travel hours. Read moreIsrael researchers test drug to prevent severe Covid casesIsrael researchers claim to have developed a drug that can help modulate the immune system and prevent a cytokine storm - that leads to the deaths of most Covid-19 patients. Read more Japanese dance group shakes a leg to Chammak ChalloShared on Instagram, a video featuring the Asianz dancers dancing to a popular Bollywood song is just what you need to freshen up your mood. Read morePriyanka Chopra blushes as she recalls falling in love with Nick JonasPriyanka Chopra and her husband, Nick Jonas, took fan questions in a recent promotional event for her memoir, Unfinished. A question that Nick was 'dying to know' the answer to was 'when did you fall in love with me?' Read more'They need to take pressure off Kohli, de Villiers': Gambhir on superstar player RCB should buy at IPL auctionGautam Gambhir feels the one thing RCB need the most right now is a good fast bowler. Calling Umesh's release a mistake, Gambhir reckons it will be interesting to see which department gets the most investment on Thursday. Read more‘Disclose religion before marriage…’: Assam minister on BJP manifesto for polls | Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-petrol-hikes-to-89-88-l-in-delhi-diesel-crosses-80-and-all-the-latest-news-101613614694258.html
18-02-2021||India||After Srinagar, group of foreign envoys to visit Jammu today||A group of 23 foreign envoys and senior diplomats will arrive in Jammu on Thursday morning.Thursday is the second day of the foreign envoys’ visit to Jammu and Kashmir (J&K). Soon after arriving in Jammu, the envoys will meet with the chief justice of J&K high court.Later they will meet with J&K’s lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha at Raj Bhavan. He is likely to brief the envoys about the development projects in J&K and the situation in the Union territory.The envoys will be meeting several delegations comprising civil society members, District Development Council (DDC) members and political leaders at a hotel in Jammu. The delegation will leave for New Delhi in the evening.The group includes European Union (EU) ambassador Ugo Astuto, and envoys from Brazil, Cuba, Estonia, Finland, Tajikistan, France, Ireland, Netherlands, Portugal, EU, Bangladesh, Malawi, Eritria, Cote d’Ivore, Ghana, Senegal, Swedan, Italy, Malaysia, Bolivia, Belgium and Kyrgyzstan.Also Read | ‘Impressive’: Foreign envoys after visiting Jammu and KashmirIn Srinagar, the envoys had an hour-long meeting with DDC and panchayat members on Wednesday.The diplomats also met different groups at the Sher-e-Kashmir International Conference Centre (SKICC) on the banks of the Dal Lake, including some writers, artisans, businessmen and people running NGOs. The group also visited the Hazratbal shrine and meet a small group of local journalists in the evening to receive first-hand information about the situation in J&K. They also meet mayor Junaid Mattu and DDC members in Srinagar—mostly from Apni Party and independent candidates.This is the third batch of diplomats to visit Jammu and Kashmir since the government scrapped the region’s special status in August 2019 and split it into two union territories in an effort to improve governance, boost development and tackle cross-border terrorism.The first two groups visited Jammu and Kashmir in January and February 2020, and plans to send a batch of envoys from EU states last year were put on hold because of the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-srinagar-group-of-foreign-envoys-to-visit-jammu-today-101613618524599.html
18-02-2021||India||PM Modi to launch Mahabahu-Brahmaputra initiative in Assam today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi would launch the Mahabahu-Brahmaputra initiative and lay foundation stones of one bridge and perform ground-breaking ceremony (bhumi pujan) of another in Assam on Thursday via video conferencing. “Tomorrow, 18th of February is a landmark day for Assam’s development journey. The Mahabahu-Brahmaputra initiative will be launched. The foundation stone of 2 bridges will also be laid,” the PM had tweeted on Wednesday. According to a PIB release, the launch of Mahabahu-Brahmaputra, which aims to improve connectivity in the eastern states, will be marked by the inauguration of the Ro-Pax vessel operations between Neamati-Majuli Island, North Guwahati-South Guwahati and Dhubri-Hatsingimari. Foundation stone of Inland Water Transport Terminal at Jogighopa and various tourist jetties on Brahmaputra and launch of digital solutions for Ease-of-Doing-Business will also be a part of the initiative. “The programme is aimed at providing seamless connectivity to the eastern parts of India and includes various development activities for the people living around River Brahmaputra and River Barak,” said the release. The PM will lay the foundation stone for a four lane bridge over the Brahmaputra between Dhubri (on North Bank) and Phulbari (on South Bank). Also Read | Just 4% houses built this fiscal year in PM Modi’s rural housing planThe proposed bridge will be on NH-127B, originating from Srirampur on NH-27 (East-West Corridor), and terminating at Nongstoin on NH-106 in Meghalaya. It will connect Dhubri in Assam to Phulbari, Tura, Rongram and Rongjeng in Meghalaya. “The bridge, to be built with a total cost of approx ₹4,997 cr, will meet the long-standing demand of the people of Assam and Meghalaya who were depending on ferry services to travel between the two banks of the river. It will reduce the distance of 205km to be travelled by road to 19km, which is the total length of the bridge,” said the release. Modi will also perform bhumi pujan for a two-lane bridge on the Brahmaputra between Majuli, the world’s largest river island, and Jorhat. The bridge will be located on NH-715K and will connect Neematighat (on Jorhat side) and Kamalabari (on Majuli side). The construction of the bridge has been a long-standing demand of the people of Majuli who, for generations, have been dependent on the ferry services to connect with the rest of Assam. Thursday’s event is in continuation with the BJP-led state government’s recent announcements ahead of the assembly polls in Assam due in April-March. On January 23, the PM had addressed a rally in Sivasagar and distributed land allotment certificates to 106,000 landless families. On February 7, he had addressed another rally at Dhekiajuli, laid foundation stones of two medical colleges and launched the Asom Mala road network project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-launch-mahabahu-brahmaputra-initiative-in-assam-today-101613618464734.html
18-02-2021||India||Cattle smuggling flourishing in Assam under BJP govt's rule, alleges Baghel||Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel has alleged the BJP government in Assam has been running a "systematic syndicate" and said that cow smuggling is flourishing in the state."The situation in Assam is frightening due to the 5-year-old Sonowal government. Cow smuggling is flourishing under the government in Assam. BJP has been seeking votes in the name of cows countrywide but in Assam, it has been hand and glove in sponsoring and carrying out cow trade across the border with Bangladesh. In fact, the Sonowal government has been running a systematic syndicate," Baghel said."It is a fact that the meat export of Bangladesh has grown many folds in last few years. Ever since BJP has come to power in Assam in 2016, cow trade and exports of cow meat in Bangladesh have gone up by 211 per cent just in two years," he added.In January, Congress had appointed Baghel, General Secretary Mukul Wasnik, and Bihar MLA Shakeel Ahmed Khan as party observers of Assam in the view of upcoming state Assembly elections.Countering the Sonowal government for claiming that they are stopping this cow trade, Baghel asked -- "if it is true then where are the cows being kept, and which gaushala have they been kept at".He alleged that the task of cow protection has been given to the Animal Husbandry Department instead of the police."The Syndicate is not limited to just cow trading, the Sonowal government has broken all records in coal brokerage and illegal coal trading. Almost 500 trucks of illegal coal transportation are taking place every day. Besides this, there are syndicates dealing in bamboo, pan, fish etc," Baghel said.The Chief Minister said 16.42 lakh people were unemployed in Assam between 2016 and 2018 and this figure has increased to 20 lakhs in 2020."This implies that instead of giving employment, the BJP government has snatched jobs of around 5 lakh people. I am told that today, an estimate of 15 to 18 lakh youths have migrated from Assam, looking for job opportunities. In Assam, we have seen the closure of two big paper mills which left thousands unemployed, some even committed suicide," he said.Drawing comparisons between Assam and Chhattisgarh, Baghel said the BJP government is unable to provide the minimum support price (MSP) to the farmers."We are buying paddy from the farmers at MSP. Apart from MSP, we have started a new scheme called "Rajiv Gandhi's Kisan Nyay yojana", where we are paying ₹10,000 per acre to the farmers for paddy, sugar cane, and maize. Forget about anything extra, the Sonowal government is unable to provide MSP to the farmers and subsequently, they have to sell paddy at the rate for ₹900-1000 per quintal," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cattle-smuggling-flourishing-in-assam-under-bjp-govt-s-rule-alleges-baghel-101613610772047.html
18-02-2021||India||‘Facebook, Twitter can’t be accountable to state assemblies’: Centre to SC||The Union government on Wednesday submitted in the Supreme Court that Facebook or Twitter cannot not be made accountable before any state assembly, even as the Centre said that the social media platforms had the “powers to de-stabalise a country” and the “propensity to create law-and-order problems”.Representing the Centre, solicitor general Tushar Mehta said that only Parliament and its committees had the authority to deal with the issues pertaining to social media and intermediaries such as Facebook since a “national response” to this problem was required.“It would be hazardous if every unit of the Union of India starts examining these things. Facebook, Twitter etc. have powers to destabilise a country but the response has to be a national response. If there is a problem with the Facebook, the answer is not to allow a state assembly to take it up. We cannot have over two dozen assemblies using their subjective wisdom to deal with this problem,” Mehta told a bench headed by justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul.Read more: SC denies registering suo motu contempt against Rajdeep SardesaiAccording to the SG, apart from Parliament, no state government and assemblies were empowered to call upon Facebook or Twitter, through their functionaries, for recording their statements on oath, or to make any recommendation regarding social media because the power to legislate on this subject was only with the central government.The government’s submissions came as the bench, which also included justices Dinesh Maheshwari and Hrishikesh Roy, was hearing a petition by Ajit Mohan, head of Facebook India. Mohan has challenged the summons issued to him by peace and harmony committee of the Delhi assembly, asking him to appear and answer some queries on the role of the social networking portal in the Delhi riots in February 2020.Experts said it will be a strange situation if a state government or assembly is told it cannot conduct an inquiry because the Centre is empowered to make the law on that subject.Read more: No link between Char Dham road widening and glacier burst, govt tells Supreme Court; hearing adjourned for 2 weeks“There is a huge difference between power to make laws, which is the legislative competence, and the enforcement of laws. A law can be made by the Central government but it is the states that have to apply those laws. How can a law be enforced without an inquiry or summoning certain individuals?” said PK Malhotra, former secretary, ministry of law and justice.“It would be a very strange situation if a state government cannot even initiate an inquiry only on the ground that the law is a central law.” he added.When the hearing began on Thursday, the bench asked Mehta to clarify if the Centre’s stand in this matter was that only the Parliament and parliamentary committees had the power to summon Facebook, WhatsApp or Twitter.The court pointed out that in the case of Delhi, an argument was made that inquiring into the riots was a law-and-order issue, which was outside the ambit of the Delhi assembly, and hence, Facebook India head could not have been summoned. “But what about other states where law-and-order is with them, unlike the peculiar position in Delhi? Or what if Delhi assembly wants to discuss something which does not relate to law-and-order? Is it your stand that the Central government is the sole repository of what Facebook does in India and no other state assembly can summon them for anything?” the bench asked Mehta.Read more: Supreme Court agrees to consider issue of priority vaccination for members of legal fraternity, issues notice to CentreMehta outlined his submissions and asserted that if there was no power to make a law on a subject, like social media in the present case, a state assembly lacked power to examine the issue or make any recommendation in that matter.“Can you (a state) regulate social media? If the answer is no, then you cannot summon anyone. Don’t even recommend something on which you don’t have legislative competence. The problem is global, uncontrollable but there has to be a national response and each assembly cannot be allowed to examine it,” Mehta replied.He added that Parliament was aware of the problem and a standing committee was already looking into it. “If you are more popular, you have more potential to create problem. And Facebook is very popular. It is not that the central legislature is not aware of the problem. A parliamentary panel is seized of all these issues,” said the S-G.Mehta also sought permission from the bench to file an affidavit on the Centre’s stand in the matter. The court gave him time till Monday to submit the affidavit and fixed the matter for hearing next week.Contending that since Facebook was already appearing before the parliamentary panel, the Delhi government and its Peace and Harmony Committee have complained that the social networking platform could not be allowed to “pick and choose” where to appear. They have added that Mohan was being called only as a witness and that he could not choose not to show up on conjectures about what could be asked by the panel. Later, the Delhi government told the bench that Facebook could even send anybody else from the firm if Mohan did not want to appear.Mohan, on the other hand, has underlined his “right to silence,” and that he was under no legal or constitutional obligation to appear before the assembly panel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/facebook-twitter-can-t-be-accountable-to-state-assemblies-government-101613610284320.html
18-02-2021||India||A second toolkit was in works: Delhi Police||The Delhi Police on Wednesday said the activists involved in the creation of a social media toolkit on the ongoing farmers’ protests prepared a second document to organise a Twitter storm aimed at “creating unrest” in Delhi on February 4 and 5 with hashtags related to the violence during January 26 tractor rally, but could not execute it.Investigators said the second document was created by Nikta Jacob, Shantanu Muluk -- two activists who have been accused of creating and sharing the first document -- and and a UK-based activist Marina Patterson, who is allegedly linked with the global movement “Extinction Rebellion” also referred to as “XR”.According to its website, Extinction Rebellion is an international movement that uses non-violent civil disobedience in an attempt to halt mass extinction and minimise the risk of social collapse.“The plan mentioned in the second toolkit, however, could not be executed. We suspect it happened because the toolkit was accidentally tweeted by Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg on February 3, the day Ravi shared it with her and coaxed her to act on it. Since the Google toolkit documents contained objectionable content, Ravi panicked, asked Greta to delete the tweet, took the admin rights and removed her name from the toolkit,” said a second senior police officer associated with the case, requesting anonymity.According to the officer, the investigating team has already written to Google seeking details of both toolkit documents to ascertain where they were actually created, who drafted and edited them, and with whom it was shared.The Delhi Police on Saturday arrested 22-year-old climate activist Disha Ravi from Bengaluru on charges of sedition, intending to riot and criminal conspiracy, for editing and creating a toolkit, essentially a Google document. The police have alleged that the toolkit was created to spread misinformation and incite unrest. They have also alleged that Disha shared the document with Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg who tweeted it but later removed it.Both Muluk and Jacob have been grated pre-arrest bail court.Activists from various organisations have said that creating a toolkit was standard operating procedure for advocacy and media outreach, and did not constitute a crime as it was entirely up to people whether or not to follow what toolkits suggested.Protests against the arrests of the activists continued on Wednesday with members of the Congress-backed NSUI demonstrating in Delhi, accusing the police of an “authoritarian crackdown”In a statement, NSUI president Neeraj Kundan said, “The government uses tough laws and misuses them to silence all dissenting voices.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-second-toolkit-was-in-works-delhi-police-101613610717926.html
18-02-2021||India||To enhance accountability, Cabinet clears changes to Juvenile Justice Act||The Union cabinet on Wednesday approved a raft of changes to the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015, or JJ Act, and plans to introduce measures to strengthen the set-up to protect the interests of children.The amendments, once approved by Parliament, will increase the role of district magistrates and empower them to undertake inspections of childcare institutions.Union minister for women and child development Smriti Irani said the move would enhance the accountability of those involved in the process of safeguarding children’s interests. “The decisions have been taken keeping in mind the need to increase protection of children,” she said.There have been reports of an increase in child abuse and trafficking during the Covid-19 lockdown. A substantial increase was noted in the number of distress calls received by 1098, the childcare helpline set up the ministry of women and child development, between March and August, a news report said.Read more: Israel researchers test drug to prevent severe Covid casesThe ministry implements a centrally sponsored Child Protection Services (CPS) Scheme for supporting children in distress conditions. Under CPS, financial assistance is provided to the states and Union territories, for, inter-alia, undertaking a situational analysis of children in difficult circumstances and for setting up and maintaining Child Care Institutes (CCIs) for providing rehabilitative services.The primary responsibility of the execution of the JJ Act rests with the states/UTs.The amendments include authorizing district magistrates and additional district magistrates to issue adoption orders under Section 61 of the JJ Act, in order to ensure speedy disposal of pending adoption cases and enhance accountability.District magistrates have been empowered under the Act, to ensure its smooth implementation, as well as put in place synergized efforts in favour of children in distress conditions, defining eligibility parameters for the appointment of child welfare committee members, and categorizing previously undefined offences as “serious offence.”According to Swagata Raha, a legal researcher based in Bengaluru, district magistrates already have a significant role to play when it comes to monitoring the implementation of the JJ Act.“It would be important to understand how they have dealt with those responsibilities, including holding review meetings and addressing grievances, and the challenges that have arisen before vesting them with additional responsibilities,” Raha said. “Prima facie, introduction of eligibility parameters for CWCs and clarifying undefined offences are necessary, but without looking at the actual amendments, it is hard to comment.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/to-enhance-accountability-cabinet-clears-changes-to-juvenile-justice-act-101613610823797.html
18-02-2021||India||Phishing attack targets Indian officials through rogue email from government ID||A number of senior government officials, including those from the ministries of defence and external affairs, were targeted in a phishing campaign earlier this month, with the attackers using compromised government domain email accounts to launch their hacking attempts, according to government officials and emails seen by HT.The attacks highlight the constant threat from hackers, and the need for better authentication protocols, experts said. The National Informatics Centre (NIC) issued an alert soon after the attack, although it isn’t clear at this time whether any of the targeted computers were compromised.Read more: US charges North Korean computer programmers in global hacksThe targets were senior officials from at least three internal government mailing lists, according to emails seen by HT. Attached with the mails these officials received were documents that, if clicked, would install a malware on the system of the targets, giving the hackers back-door access, potentially allowing complete spying on the targets.Altogether, two emails were sent from @gov.in and @nic.in email addresses. “In both cases, GoI officials have been targeted through compromised email IDs of NIC (senders’ email domain: @gov.in and @nic.in) to make email users believe that these emails were genuine,” said an alert issued by at least one of the ministries that was affected. HT has reviewed a copy of the mail warning.Read more: ‘Another ploy’: Govt rebuts claim that letters were planted in Wilson’s laptop“The phishing emails were sent on February 10 to various officials across the ministries of external affairs and defence and others, with attached documents asking the recipients to click on the files. Soon after, NIC alerted the concerned branches of the potential security breach and notified all officials across ministries of the compromised emails,” said an official, who asked not to be named.NIC runs the official email service for the government, handing out addresses with the two domain names. Employees and officers under Union and state governments as well as those in state-owned companies are eligible for accounts. The process to obtain one follows a multilayer verification system that requires approvals by designated NIC authorities attached with the ministries these employees work for or come under.Read more: Over 2.9 lakh cyber security incidents related to digital banking reported in 2020HT could not immediately determine the total number of officials targeted, and if any computers were successfully breached. NIC, the Indian Computer Emergency Response Team (Cert-IN), and the ministry of electronics and information technology (Meity) did not respond to questionnaires seeking details of those targeted, whether any systems were compromised and if investigations had been launched.A cybersecurity analyst who has worked with the government on investigating cyber attacks said that such methods have been seen in the past, in particular during a campaign in 2008-2009. “Dormant accounts of NIC were used to launch attacks against several top government officials at the time,” this person said, asking not to be named.At the time, mails from a compromised government domain email address were sent to at least 450 top officials, including to accounts used by the then Prime Minister’s Office, the national security adviser, and the external affairs ministry. The analyst quoted above was part of the team that investigated the campaign.Read more: Beware, Mumbai recorded more cybercrimes in 2020: Data“The latest attack seems very basic, but the attackers might have compromised one account using this technique and then gradually expanded their footprint,” added this person, after reviewing available details of the attack at HT’s request. Only a technical analysis can reveal who is behind the attack, the person cited above said, since similar methods can be deployed by a wide variety of adversaries.The campaign in 2008-2009, which lasted till late 2010, was suspected to have been carried out by hackers linked to China.Such phishing campaigns are not novel, and most organisations now sensitise their employees to not respond to or interact with emails from people they don’t know. But using a government domain email address expands an attackers’ ability to target a wide range of senior officials since official email distribution lists often do not accept mails from outside organisations.“Having access to a privileged email domain is always a great vector from an attacker’s perspective because this way, they are able to reach directly into the inbox of their targets and defeat filters that usually flag suspicious messages. This way, they can also chain attack, compromising one official after the other,” said Yash Kadakia, chief technology officer at Security Brigade, a cybersecurity firm that works with the government.By using this technique, attackers can reach officials even if they are not aware of their exact address. “It gives the attacker that ability to choose targets based on a particular profile, whose email addresses they may not have. For example, a phishing mail can be targeted to a mailing list used by an operation’s divisions to reach people involved in such roles,” Kadakia said.“The larger question to ask here is whether the government accounts were protected by two-factor authentication. An OTP (one-time password) for sign-in is one easy way to stop such attacks even if basic login credentials are compromised,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/phishing-attack-targets-officials-through-rogue-mail-from-government-id-101613605003186.html
18-02-2021||India||Just 4% houses built this fiscal year in PM Modi’s rural housing plan||About four out of every 100 houses targeted to be built this financial year under the Centre’s flagship rural housing scheme have been completed so far, according to government data. The lag is due to the Covid-19 lockdown, financial constraints and other issues, officials said.The Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojna-Grameen, or PMAY-G, was created to provide pucca house to every homeless poor in rural areas. While it has been consistent in chasing targets, this year, some large states have faltered.A senior official aware of the matter pointed out that the scheme, rolled out in November 2016, “has already completed 2.02 crore houses. And we are confident that we will cross the target of building 3 crore houses by March 2022, well before the deadline of August 2022.”A performance audit of the rural development ministry has flagged several issues, including the impact of Covid-19. HT has seen the audit report.Read more: Government chalks up plan to protect police evidenceAccording to latest government data, while the Centre has set the annual target of building 6.377 million houses in FY20-21, states have sanctioned only 3.557 million, or 56% of the target. Of these, only 265,250 (or 4.16% of the year’s target) have been completed.The slow place was flagged in the agenda paper of the ministry’s Performance Review Committee (PRC), which meets at regular intervals to take note of the progress and identify the bottlenecks in different projects.A senior rural ministry official pointed out that states that have contributed 40% of the costs of each house have faced cash crunch as they had to redirect funding to fight the pandemic. “...some states are not in a position to release the funds for housing scheme. But the situation will improve.”The states sanctioned just 56% of the targeted houses this year, a massive drop from FY19-20, when, against the Centre’s target of 5.976 million houses, the states sanctioned 5.966 million. The gap between targets and sanctions has widened from 440,000 in the previous financial year to 2.79 million in this one.Read more: Bengal minster injured in bomb attack in Murshidabad; rushed to hospital“The states of Chhattisgarh, Assam, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, West Bengal, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu have huge gaps in pending sanctions, and need to expedite daily rate of sanctions to achieve the target,” said the report.Expressing concerns, the report said, “The pace of completion has slowed down drastically. This slow pace can be attributed to some factors like inactivity due to Covid-19, elections in few states, saturation of eligible beneficiaries from the SC and ST category, slow pace of working of remand module and lack of timely allocation of targets to districts.”The Centre’s performance audit, however, added that “while the lockdown due to Covid-19 was largely an unavoidable factor”, intense follow-ups are being done with the States/UTs which are lagging behind.While the ministry has asked states to beef up the completion rate of PMAY-G houses by March 31—a tough task by all measures—it has once again identified some big states that have pulled down the rate of completion to an abysmal low.“West Bengal, Bihar, Jharkhand, Maharashtra, Rajasthan and Odisha need to expedite daily rate of completion to achieve the target,” it said.MP minister Gopal Bhargava said the previous Congress government had “not made any provision for rural housing under PMAY in the budget for 2019-20” but the BJP government rectified it. “The MP government has set a target to provide housing to all by 2023 and we are sure of achieving it,” said Bhargava.A senior Trinamool Congress leader said on condition of anonymity that in “West Bengal, projects in several districts got delayed last year because of the Covid-19 pandemic and cyclone Amphan.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/just-4-houses-built-this-fiscal-year-in-pm-modi-s-rural-housing-plan-101613605128083.html
18-02-2021||India||Government chalks up plan to protect police evidence||With the mountain of evidence seized during police investigations and stockpiled in the Malkhanas of 16,670-odd police stations reaching unmanageable proportions, the ministry of home affairs has chalked out a plan to protect the assets, which are of considerable financial and evidentiary value, from decay, pilferage, theft and embezzlement.The report, Malkhana Management System, prepared by the apex police think-tank and approved by the MHA, has recommended the use of RFID tags, bar codes/QR codes, and 24x7 CCTV monitoring of the seized property kept inside theMalkhanas, which are the repositories of seized evidence. The plan has already been shared with states and Union territories.The Bureau of Police Research and Development (BPRD) report asserts that Malkhanas plays a key role in the criminal justice system.Read more: Popular Bengali actor joins BJP, another movie veteran and TMC MLA wants to quit“Failure to manage the evidence/seized property can affect the successful prosecution of criminal cases, resulting in law enforcement agency liability and loss of public confidence. The incidents of theft, replacement, pilferage, embezzlement and destruction of the seized property on account of the wholly unsatisfactory and unscientific methods of storage taint reputation of law enforcement agencies. At times, explosions have occurred due to unscientific storage of explosives atMalkhana,” said the report.It stated that items seized by the police or kept inside Malkhanas during pending trials or after convictions and which have not been disposed of should be kept in paper/plastic envelopes/containers with proper labels, a description of the items/items, quantity, case number, date of seizure, place from where it was seized, and name of the investigating officer.It suggested the installation of compactors in Malkhanas for ensuring safe storage. For QR coding of items, it has recommended following the Andhra Pradesh police model, which has put in place detailed standard operating procedure (SOP).Read more: Bengal minster injured in bomb attack in Murshidabad; rushed to hospitalThe management of Malkhanas, BPRD said, has become increasingly complex because of several factors: the large volume of evidence being collected, absence of adequate space and safe storage systems, preservation of biological/DNA-related material, and lack of training for personnel posted there.For example, currently, there are 599,000 items kept in Delhi’s 208 police stations. A Delhi Police officer, requesting anonymity, said there was no exact data of seizure on each item, but the maximum number of items were typically liquor and cars/bikes.“There could be around 15,000 to 20,000 vehicles in Delhi’s police stations,” the officer said.The arms and ammunition are also stored in Malkhanas. The BPRD has recommended proper tagging and lockers for these as well.Read more: BSF team seize smuggled snake venom worth ₹24 cr near Indo-Bangladesh borderAmong the seized property, vehicles usually occupy substantial space in police stations because of prolonged trials or because they have been left unclaimed by their owners. They are parked in the open and are prone to rapid natural decay on account of weather conditions as well as theft. BPRD has recommended using the Kerala Police model by creating centralised vehicle yards in each district of the states to park the seized vehicles.BPRD asked police forces to follow Supreme Court directions on storing seized and prohibited drugs in the police stations by creating a separate exclusive storage.With use of biological and technical evidence becoming ever important, the MHA think-tank has said that there should be a separate refrigerated storage at every police station for biological evidence and electrostatic bags with labels and tagging for electronic evidence.Read more: India rejects SGPC request for Jatha’s travel to Pak, cites threat to safetyIt said there was also an urgent need to revisit the police manuals/regulations in the light of changes in laws, forensics/technology, and judicial pronouncements to frame a written policy and bring out a procedural manual on maintaining Malkhanas.The report said if Malkhanas are maintained efficiently, it would reduce the burden on the state exchequer as a result of saving where evidence is stored and ensuring timely justice.“It is true that seized items are decaying in the police stations due to improper handling and training,” said N Rao, a retired Delhi Police deputy commissioner of police. “The police stations have limited space and items are not claimed by owners for years. Such a report by BPRD should be implemented for better management.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/government-chalks-up-plan-to-protect-police-evidence-101613605155608.html
18-02-2021||India||Toolkit case: Nikita Jacob gets pre-arrest bail||The Bombay high court on Wednesday granted protection from arrest for three weeks to Mumbai-based lawyer Nikita Jacob, accused of helping edit a social media toolkit on the farm protests, even as Delhi Police said it was expanding its probe into the alleged plot to foment unrest in the Capital.Jacob, 30, applied for transit anticipatory bail after a non-bailable warrant was issued against her in Delhi earlier this week. The 30-year-old approached the high court after Delhi Police’s cyber crime unit raided her residence on February 11, and seized her computer and phone in connection with the toolkit.Another activist, Beed resident Shantanu Muluk, who is accused of creating the document, already received protection from arrest for 10 days by the high court on Tuesday; climate activist Disha Ravi is in jail in Delhi and faces charges of sedition, criminal conspiracy and intending to riot.Read more: Toolkit case: Some relief for activists as police defend actionThe police’s decision to charge Bengaluru-based Ravi has stoked allegations of muzzling dissent and procedural lapses – though the police have repeatedly denied these charges.“The applicant (Jacob) apprehends that she will be arrested at any point of time. She has to make arrangements to seek relief from a court in another state. Hence, this court is of the opinion that protection as sought by the applicant can be granted for a temporary period,” justice PD Naik said.The court said if Jacob is arrested in the three-week period, then she shall be released after furnishing a bond of ₹25,000. “There is nothing in the toolkit about violence, it is only for creating awareness about farm laws, it’s not for creating violence,” said Sanjukta Dey, Jacob’s lawyer.Delhi Police say the document, first publicised by Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg on February 3 in support of farmers agitating against three central laws, aimed to spread misinformation, incite unrest and was linked to clashes in the Capital on Republic Day.Read more: Toolkit was only to educate people on farm stir: Nikita JacobOn Wednesday, Delhi Police said the activists prepared a second document to organise a Twitter storm aimed at “creating unrest” in the Capital on February 4 and 5 but could not execute it. Investigators said the second document was created by Jacob, Muluk and a UK-based activist identified as Marina Patterson, who is allegedly linked with the global movement “Extinction Rebellion” also referred to as “XR”. According to its website, Extinction Rebellion is an international movement that uses non-violent civil disobedience in an attempt to halt mass extinction and minimise the risk of social collapse.“The plan mentioned in the second toolkit, however, could not be executed. We suspect it happened because the toolkit was accidentally tweeted by Thunberg on February 3, the day Ravi shared it with her and coaxed her to act on it. Since the Google toolkit documents contained objectionable content, Ravi panicked, asked Greta to delete the tweet, took the admin rights and removed her name from the toolkit,” said a senior police officer associated with the case, requesting anonymity.Read more: Will ask ‘toolkit’ suspect why he was at Tikri on R-Day: CopsPolice said they will now focus on the woman identified as Patterson. “The UK-based woman joined them. She made a package and added to the document through hyperlink. The toolkit was accidentally published when she was simultaneously editing it. She wrote that police are attacking protesters... many injured, many disappearing and many individuals are already reported dead. This was created to mislead in future,” a second police officer said.Investigators also focused on a WhatsApp group named “International Farmers Strike” allegedly created on December 6 by Ravi. Police said Jacob joined the group on December 11 while pro-Khalistani group Poetic Justice Foundation (PJF) members joined it the following day.Read more: HT Editorial: Disha Ravi’s arrest is wrongMuluk was added on December 6 and the trio allegedly attended a virtual meeting by PJF on January 11.The activists denied the charges with Jacob’s lawyers telling the high court that the toolkit meant to provide digital support for the farmers’ protest and not violence.Muluk’s father Shivlal Muluk also told Beed Police that a computer hard disk and other items were seized from their house, allegedly without a search warrant, on February 12, according to PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/toolkit-case-nikita-jacob-gets-pre-arrest-bail-101613604838405.html
18-02-2021||India||24 diplomats visit J&K in third delegation since Article 370 move||A group of 24 foreign envoys began a two-day visit to Jammu and Kashmir on Wednesday under a government initiative to showcase efforts to restore normalcy and boost development in the union territory.This is the third group of diplomats to visit Jammu and Kashmir since January 2020 and the first since the government’s efforts to take envoys to the region was interrupted by the Covid-19 pandemic. The visit has been organised following the conduct of District Development Council (DDC) elections in November-December and restoration of high speed 4G mobile internet earlier this month.The group includes European Union (EU) ambassador Ugo Astuto, and ambassadors of key European states such as French envoy Emmanuel Lenain, Italian envoy Vincenzo de Luca, Swedish envoy Klas Molin, Irish envoy Brendan Ward and Dutch envoy Marten van den Berg. The neighbourhood was represented by Bangladeshi envoy Muhammad Imran.Watch: 24 foreign envoys reach J&K’s Srinagar to assess situationPeople familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity the group represents various geographical regions such as Africa, South America and Asean, and also included the envoys of Brazil, Cuba, Estonia, Finland, Tajikistan, Portugal, Malawi, Eritrea, Cote d’Ivore, Ghana, Senegal, Malaysia, Bolivia, Belgium and Kyrgyzstan.Tight security arrangements were put in place for the visit. A spontaneous shutdown was observed in Srinagar, and all business and commercial areas were closed.Soon after their arrival in Srinagar, the envoys headed for Magam in Budgam district on the outskirts of the city, where they met DDC and panchayat members and local residents. The envoys also witnessed “Block Diwas”, a public outreach initiative organised every week by the local administration, and we’re briefed on people-centric schemes being implemented by the government.“The visit to Budgam provided the envoys an opportunity to interact and hear directly from the public and local representatives about the functioning and empowerment of grassroots democratic institutions, devolution of power, developmental activities, and grievance redress mechanisms,” said one of the people cited above.The DDC chairman of Budgam, Nazir Ahmad Khan, who met the envoys with a group of DDC and panchayat members, said he had briefed the group about the panchayat system and the recent DDC elections.Read more: 'Impressive': Foreign envoys after visiting Jammu and Kashmir"I expressed appreciation for the civil and police administration for the peaceful conduct of the elections and the restoration of grassroots democracy. I also briefed them about Budgam district,” he said.The envoys spent more than an hour at the Degree College in Magam. However, a group of DDC and panchayat members of the PAGD were not allowed by the administration to meet the envoys."We are also elected members but we were not allowed to move out from our rooms to convey our viewpoint to the envoys," said a DDC member from Budgam who declined to be identified.In the afternoon, the envoys met different groups at the Sher-e-Kashmir International Conference Centre (SKICC) on the banks of the Dal Lake. During a meeting with members of civil society, some of the envoys asked the participants how they were selected for the meeting with the diplomats.Read more: Effort to mislead global community: Pakistan on visit of foreign envoys to J-KThe mayor of Srinagar, chairpersons of urban local bodies, Block Development Councils (BDCs) and DDCs outlined their vision for development-centric administration in the decentralised grassroots framework.The group also visited the Hazratbal shrine and meet a small group of local journalists in the evening to make a first-hand assessment of the situation in Jammu and Kashmir. A cultural event was also organised for the envoys in the evening.The president of the Kashmir Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Shiekh Ashiq, said his organisation didn’t receive any invitation to meet the envoys.Security was tight across Srinagar, and especially around the SKICC, where the envoys held their meetings. The spontaneous shutdown in the Kashmir Valley began shortly before the arrival of the envoys. No group had issued a call for the strike.Read more: No favour: J-K people demand compensation, apology after 4G internet restorationThis is the third batch of diplomats to visit Jammu and Kashmir since the government scrapped the region’s special status in August 2019 and split it into two union territories in an effort to improve governance, boost development and tackle cross-border terrorism.The first two groups visited Jammu and Kashmir in January and February 2020, and plans to send a batch of envoys from EU states last year were put on hold because of the pandemic.The envoys didn’t met any politicians from mainstream political parties and the people cited above said they could meet mainstream politicians in the winter capital Jammu on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/24-diplomats-visit-j-k-in-third-delegation-since-article-370-move-101613594403320.html
18-02-2021||India||Israel researchers test drug to prevent severe Covid cases||Researchers from Israel claim to have developed a drug that can help modulate the immune system and prevent a cytokine storm – a condition in which the body’s immune response goes into an overdrive and starts attacking its own tissues and organs – in patients of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). It is the cytokine storm that leads to the deaths of most patients with the viral infection.The drug, which is inhaled just like asthma medication, has been administered to 35 Covid-19 patients in different doses at the Tel Aviv Sourasky Medical Center–Ichilov Hospital. The researchers said that there was a marked improvement in their oxygen saturation and respiratory rate after the drug was administered for five days.Read more: In one US city, coronavirus vaccines for everyone 18 and overThe last patient to have been administered the medicine is still under follow-up after which the researchers will publish the data, they said in an online press briefing on Wednesday.The drug uses enriched exosomes released by cell membranes for intercellular communication from a protein called CD24. This, the researchers hypothesise, prevents the inflammatory stimuli from interacting with the body’s immune cells as well as blocking the receptor that regulates the body’s immune response to the tissue injuries.“This gives us a lot of hope. However, we cannot say it is an effective drug till we have studies comparing the therapy with placebo in randomised control trial. Our solution is fast and efficient as it can be given nasally and goes directly to the lungs. It is also easy to produce. Once proven, we can supply it to the world within a few months,” said professor Nadir Arber, Director of the Integrated Cancer Prevention Centre at the hospital.Read more: When will Covid-19 vaccine be available in open market? AIIMS Director answersThe doctors have not seen any side effects of the drug in the 35 patients, they said. The researchers are currently looking at collaborations with other countries for the phase II and III trials of the drug.In pre-clinical trials on mice, the doctors also noticed that there weren’t any lung lesions, according to the research. In Covid-19 patients, the cytokine storm damages the lung tissue, which while healing hardens, leading to a condition called Fibrosis that reduces the capacity of the lungs.Watch: Covid update: India invites Pakistan; UK to infect volunteers; new flight rules||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/israel-researchers-test-drug-to-prevent-severe-covid-cases-101613593282769.html
18-02-2021||India||Bihar CM Nitish Kumar once again bats for caste-based census||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Wednesday once again batted for caste-based census in the state.“I have been saying for a long time that once caste-based census must be done, as it will give a clear idea about the population of different castes. It will help in planning for them,” he said.Kumar said that he also sent two resolutions, passed by the Bihar Legislature, to the Centre in this regard. “It should be done once to clear the picture. It was done earlier, but since Independence it has not happened. Therefore, we need it to happen,” he said, while talking to the media at the party office.Kumar said that Bihar already has clearly identified backward classes and extremely backward classes since the days of Karpoori Thakur government. “We want the Centre to adopt the same for more benefit to the people. At present, there is only one category at the Centre,” he added.Kumar’s statement is significant in the wake of the Justice Rohini Commission’s proposal for sub-categorisation of reservation for other backward castes (OBCs) in the government sector. The commission has recommended splitting 27% reservation for the OBCs into different categories for equitable distribution of benefits among different sub-castes to ensure that the benefits reached the really deprived sections.The commission was set up in 2017 to look into the issue of sub-categorisation of within the OBCs. After several extensions, it submitted its report earlier this month, diving 2633 OBC castes in the Central list into four sub-categories for split of 27% quota into 2, 6, 9 and 10%.Though there is no official data available on the actual strengths of different castes, all the estimates are based on projections from old caste census, which was last done in 1931. There have often been demands for it and some initiatives were also taken, but it could not materialize, even as caste remained an overriding factor for getting the electoral arithmetic right. Only the economic data could come out.As per projections from figures of 1931 Census for specific Hindu castes and 1961 Census for all others, backward classes constitute 51.3% population in the state. Many political parties feel the numbers have changed and a fresh caste-based census is the need of the hour.Social economic and caste census (SECC) - 2011 was carried out by state rural development departments on instructions of central rural development ministry. However, caste data could not be made public citing discrepancies. Till date, census only makes count of religion and also the SC/ST population.In 2019, the Bihar Legislative Assembly had passed two government resolutions – one favouring caste-wise census in 2021 and another for continuing with the old 200-point roster system, which treats university as the unit, not the 13-point roster system that treats department as the unit.In 2020, ahead of the state elections, the Bihar Assembly again passed two resolutions – one against the contentious National Register of Citizens (NRC) exercise in the state and another for caste-based census in 2021. They were passed unanimously.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-cm-nitish-kumar-once-again-bats-for-caste-based-census-101613592585531.html
18-02-2021||India||Panel's recommendations far from legal reality, can't be implemented: Himanta||Senior Assam minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Wednesday said that the government cannot implement the recommendations of the central panel on Clause 6 of the Assam Accord as those are "far from legal reality".This is the first time that a senior minister spoke about the recommendations of the report, which was submitted to Assam Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal on February 25 last year for handing it over to the Union Home Minister Amit Shah."The recommendations given by the committee are far from the legal reality of this land.... How can we implement them?" said Sarma, also the convenor of the North East Democratic Alliance (NEDA), the regional arm of the NDA.The recommendations go against many Supreme Court judgements, he said at the launch of his book, "Eta Saponar Pom Khedi (Chasing a dream)", comprising 25 of his speeches.The apex court had ordered that reservations cannot exceed 50 per cent, but the panel's report suggested more than that, he added."Why did the committee not consider Supreme Court judgements? The recommendations would have to be vetted by a legal committee. I think those were not recommendations, but their (panel's) expectations only," the BJP leader said.He, however, said that the BJP-led government is implementing the Clause-6 in its own way following the Constitution and the Supreme Court rulings.On February 11, Assam Governor Jagdish Mukhi said in the assembly that the state is still examining the Clause-6 report, prepared by Justice Biplab Kumar Sarma-led High-Level Committee (HLC) of the Union Home Ministry, and has not forwarded it to the Union government for consideration.Alleging that the government was "sitting idle" on the issue, the All Assam Students' Union (AASU) and Arunachal Pradesh Advocate General Nilay Dutta, who were part of the committee, on August 11 last year released the confidential report, saying that the public has the right to know the contents.As per the Clause 6 of the Assam Accord, Constitutional, legislative and administrative safeguards, as may be appropriate, shall be provided to protect, preserve and promote the culture, social, linguistic identity and heritage of the Assamese people.The bone of contention since the signing of the Accord on August 15, 1985 has been the definition of Assamese people, which the committee tried to fix as the tribal, indigenous and all other Indian citizens residing within the territory of Assam as per the First Schedule of the Constitution on or before January 1, 1951 along with their descendants.Talking about the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, Sarma said the rules of the law, when framed, will have "striking balance" between advantages given to Hindu immigrants and interests of the Assamese people."My job is to strike a balance between Hindus and Assamese. I take pride as a Hindu. If you are a Hindu, then we will accommodate everyone who is not a threat," he added.He said that people believing in other faiths can also be a Hindu if they consider 'Bharat' as their motherland."I don't see any Hindu in the world as separate from me. My definition is cultural and for that, you may call me communal or chauvinist," he added.The BJP leader said India was not created in 1947, but it was created 6,000 years ago.On AIUDF chief Badruddin Ajmal, who has always been a target of Sarma, the senior BJP leader said that the Lok Sabha MP from Dhubri is alleged to have received funds from groups having links with Islamic terror groups.Ajmal heads All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) which has 14 MLAs mostly from the minority Muslims dominated areas of Assam at present. The party has teamed up with Congress and four other political parties to form a Grand Alliance against the ruling BJP in the assembly election likely to be held in March-April.Referring to the philanthropic activities on health and education sector by the Ajmal Foundation' set up by the AIUDF chief, Sarma said, "Do you want an IAS officer who is educated on funds from Islamic terror groups?"On his repeated usage of the phrase 'clash of civilisation' while referring to Ajmal, the minister said that it is just "a political word and not related to any person".Sarma said the BJP manifesto for the coming assembly election "will have a message of staunch nationalism with positive regionalism."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/panels-recommendations-far-from-legal-reality-can-t-be-implemented-himanta-101613592840585.html
18-02-2021||India||Uttarakhand fails to deliver early warning system 8 years after it was promised||Bharat Singh, a resident of Raini village was out with some more villagers on the hill behind his village on February 7 morning when they noticed a cloud of dust and ice heading for their village flowing through Rishi Ganga river with fierce speed.“I told myself it’s the glacier. The glacier is heading for us. We called company people (Rishi Ganga hydropower project 13.2 MW) frantically to warn them. They thought it was a joke. Then we realised Rishi Ganga project’s alarm system failed and in no time everything was engulfed,” said Singh.Warning systems failed both at Rishi Ganga and Tapovan Vishnugad hydropower project. A senior national thermal power corporation (NTPC) official at the disaster site said: “We had a system of dependence. We had an understanding that whenever water levels rise in Rishi Ganga project barrage, they communicate it to us and we inform projects downstream. But this time there was no time to respond. The volume of debris and ice was so massive alarm systems couldn’t trigger. It has now been decided that a government backed early warning system will be installed for projects here to monitor glaciers.”Watch: After Chamoli flood, why Char Dham road project is in spotlight: Ground Report“Some authorities are saying they knew a lake had formed on the glacier then why wasn't it shared with us? People are dying here and there is no warning? This winter was very warm and there was no snowfall here,” said Radha Devi of Raini village.The decision to install an early warning system comes nearly 8 years after the Union environment ministry had said in an affidavit that Uttarakhand urgently needed a flood forecasting network. An expert body appointed by SC in 2013 had observed that lack of disaster preparedness was a dangerous lacuna.Read more: Not just climate change, Chamoli disaster was human-inducedAn affidavit by MoEFCC dated December 17, 2015 said the EB headed by Ravi Chopra, director of Dehradun-based People's Science Institute had observed “very poor performance and a dangerous lacuna in terms of the disaster preparedness of existing as well as under construction hydro-electric projects. According to EB, the operation of barrages during extreme events leaves a lot of ambiguity as to when the gates should be fully lifted. Without any real time flood forecasting network or an automated weather station upstream and the possibility of massive landslides, blocking of the barrages is a hazard in June when the snow melt component is very high,” underlining that to mitigate the threat a real time flood forecasting network or automated weather stations are required. The probability of errant monsoon behaviour is only likely to increase with global warming, the affidavit had said.HT sent a query to MoEFCC on Monday as to why an early warning system hadn't been put in place in all these years. MoEFCC officials haven't replied to the query yet.Read more: 'No new lake, it's part of bigger one that caused Chamoli disaster': ExpertsIndia Meteorological Department doesn't yet have any weather monitoring stations in the higher reaches. “We don't monitor glaciers and avalanche warnings are normally issued by Snow and Avalanche Study Establishment of DRDO. We are trying to strengthen our network but as of today we don't have monitoring stations above 3500 metres,” said Anand Sharma, additional director general, IMD.“Early flood warning is definitely possible and should be implemented immediately. We need continuous monitoring of water levels, velocity and volumes in high valleys also. Indian Himalayas have 10,000 glaciers. Over 1000 are in Uttarakhand so it's not possible to monitor them individually. But we need remote sensing information and identification of hazardous ones where may be large lakes have formed. Avalanches also need continuous monitoring,” said DP Dobhal, retired geologist at Wadia Institute of Himalayan Geology in Dehradun.“There can be a system of alarm triggering during high rainfall or high snowfall particularly in landslide prone zones just like the Tsunami warning system that exists,” said DS Pai.Read more: Visit Uttarakhand without fear: State govt to tourists after Chamoli disasterLocals say alarm systems in hydropower projects have often failed. For some the Feb 7 disaster brings fears of the 2013 flash flood experience.“It was peak of the Chardham yatra in June. Water levels started rising in the Alaknanda at around 6 pm. I was at home. My house is half km away from Alaknanda bank. There was no alarm whatsoever from the dam. By 5 am next morning the river had engulfed a part of our house. We later realised water levels had gone up because all the muck and debris that had been dumped on the riverbed by the hydropower project. Around 86 homes had been inundated by Alaknanda. We live in fear every day,” recollected Chandramohan Bhatt, Srinagar Bandh Apda Sangharsh Samiti head.In a letter to SC dated February 13, Ravi Chopra has written that implementing the EB's recommendation of a flood warning system could have saved hundreds of lives at Rishi Ganga and Tapovan Vishnugad projects.Read more: Wadia institute scientists visit Chamoli disaster site, explain what caused itThe EB report submitted in April 2014 had highlighted the potential threat of paraglacial zones (above 2500 metres), valleys north of the Main Central Thrust (MCT), and emphasized them as disaster-prone areas. The EB recommended that hydropower projects not be built in these valleys.“I have never heard of any alarm systems in dams or hydropower projects triggering. I don't think these projects have a system for early evacuation in the event of a disaster like we saw on February 7. We believe this is a case of criminal negligence. Despite several disasters killing thousands of lives, the state has failed to provide basic warning and disaster preparedness infrastructure,” said Vimal Bhai of Matu Jansangathan which works on environmental issues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-fails-to-deliver-early-warning-system-8-years-after-it-was-promised-101613565935204.html
18-02-2021||India||Centre denies Char Dham road expansion link to Chamoli disaster||The Centre told the Supreme Court on Wednesday that the recent Chamoli tragedy had no link with the ongoing Char Dham road expansion project as alleged by the head of the High-Powered Committee in a letter written to the Supreme Court last week. The Committee was formed by the Supreme Court to examine the environmental damage resulting out of the project.The High-Powered Committee (HPC) Chairman Ravi Chopra in his recent letter dated February 13 said, “The recent disaster in the Rishiganga valley is located in the region north of the main central thrust (MCT), which is highly prone to landslides, flash floods and earthquake. A section of the defense road to the Indo-China border and a bridge across the Rishiganga river on that road have been swept away, lending credence to our argument for disaster resilience in the region. Vulnerability and disaster proneness of this region is bound to increase with extensive disturbances like deforestation, slope cutting, blasting, tunneling, damming of rivers, excessive tourism, etc. The cumulative impact of such activities on the nearby glaciers cannot be ignored.”Read more: 'No new lake, it's part of bigger one that caused Chamoli disaster': ExpertsThe letter further stated that several chronic landslide-prone locations and stretches, where the slope stability is precarious, exist on the three Char Dham highways identified by the Ministry of Defence (MoD) as defence feeder roads. The Ministry of Road, Transport and Highways (MoRTH) data submitted to the HPC have identified 161 sensitive locations in 574 km (on NH-94 Rishikesh to Uttarkashi, NH-58 Rishikesh to Mana and NH-125 Tanakpur to Pithoragarh), about one location every 3.5 km.Watch: After Chamoli flood, why Char Dham road project is in spotlight: Ground ReportThe Centre received Chopra’s letter on Tuesday and for this reason could not file its response to the same. On Wednesday, when the Court took up the Char Dham road project matter pending consideration in a petition filed by NGO Citizens for Green Doon, Attorney General KK Venugopal appeared for MoD seeking time for filing a response to HPC Chairman’s letter.“Yesterday we received the letter by the Chairman, HPC which he has written on his own behalf. These are unwarranted comments not based on facts. We would like to reply to it in two weeks,” AG Venugopal said. The bench of Justices RF Nariman, Hemant Gupta and BR Gavai adjourned the matter by two weeks at the request of the top law officer.Read more: Not just climate change, Chamoli disaster was human-inducedThe HPC had on December 31, 2020 given its approval for the expansion of the Chard Dham project roads after the MoD demanded these roads to have a double-lane carriageway width of 7 metre (or 7.5 metre in case there is a raised kerb) to facilitate movement of heavy vehicles carrying troops, self-propelled artillery and other heavy machinery by the Army. The Court had asked the HPC to consider this request of the MoD as the earlier prescribed width according to MoRTH notification was 5.5 metre. HPC Chairman refused to go with the majority view and gave a separate report along with two other members.In his letter to the SC, Chopra further stated that had the 2014 recommendation of an expert body (EB) chaired by him following the 2013 disaster in Uttarakhand been followed, the recent Chamoli tragedy could be averted.VS Khaira, chief engineer, regional office of ministry of road transport and highways (MoRTH) Uttarakhand and project in-charge of Char Dham road project, said, “We will submit our response to the points raised in the letter (by HPC Chairman) in two weeks’ time.”Read more: Wadia institute scientists visit Chamoli disaster site, explain what caused itChopra further stated in the letter that EB had recommended that hydro electric projects (HEPs) should not be built in these valleys “based on field visits, scientific publications, government reports and eye-witness reports” that provided evidence of irreversible damage to the Ganga river system’s Himalayan ecology.The EB’s recommendations were accepted by the Central Government and submitted to the top court in the form of an affidavit in 2014. “The flood-related concerns in all existing projects including shortcomings of Tehri Dam were also highlighted and recommendations were made by the EB to develop and install the flood warning mechanism. Had these concerns and recommendations been adopted, the massive loss of lives and property could have been avoided in the Rishi Ganga and Tapovan Vishnugad projects”, the letter states.Read more: Visit Uttarakhand without fear: State govt to tourists after Chamoli disasterFollowing the EB recommendation, the Supreme Court had stayed work on 24 proposed HEPs. But all under-construction projects continued their construction unhindered. “Instead of recognizing the sensitive nature of the area which is prone to disaster, the Union Ministries, MoRTH and MoD have been shifting their positions,” Chopra said in his letter referring to the SC judgment in 2013 in the Kedarnath tragedy case where it expressed concern that “with the mushrooming of large number of hydroelectric projects in the State of Uttarakhand…the cumulative impact of those project components like dams, tunnels, blasting, power-house, muck disposal, mining, deforestation etc. on eco-system, is yet to be scientifically examined.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-denies-char-dham-road-expansion-link-to-chamoli-disaster-101613591261625.html
18-02-2021||India||Opposition in Puducherry calls for a floor test||A day after the Congress government in Puducherry slipped below the majority mark, the Opposition led by former chief minister N Rangasamy submitted a petition seeking a floor test to the lieutenant governor (L-G)’s office on Wednesday, just months ahead of the upcoming assembly elections in the Union Territory.Telangana governor Tamilisai Soundararajan, who has been given the additional charge of Puducherry, arrived in the UT in the evening. “She will officially take charge on Thursday and we will hand over the petition for the floor test to her,” said an official from the the L-G’s office, requesting anonymity.Amidst the unfolding of the political drama, Kiran Bedi was replaced as the Puducherry L-G on Tuesday.Watch: Kiran Bedi posts message after removal as Puducherry L-G; Narayanasamy responds“I will handle Telangana and Puducherry. I’m a gynaecologist. So I can handle twins,” Soundararajan told reporters after reaching Puducherry. When asked about her appointment amidst the political instability, she said, “I can’t answer on speculations...I’m a people’s governor...for the people of Puducherry, I have come here. My activities will benefit people.”By Wednesday evening, three the BJP leaders from the UT were on a flight to Delhi after being called for a meeting with Union home minister Amit Shah and party president JP Nadda, according to BJP’s Puducherry president V Saminathan. The delegation comprised Saminthan; Nirmal Kumar Surana, who is the party in-charge for the UT; and A Namassivayam, who quit as a minister in the Congress government and joined the BJP in January.Read more: 'Created problems with her interference': Puducherry CM reacts to Bedi's oustingIn Puducherry, both the ruling and opposition sides claim the support of 14 legislators each. The assembly has 30 elected and three nominated members. With Congress legislator A John Kumar’s resignation on Tuesday, the Congress’s tally in the House dropped to 10, including speaker V P Sivakolunthu. Three more Congress MLAs have resigned since January. It also has the support of three MLAs from the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) and an independent MLA.The Opposition comprises the All India NR Congress, a splinter group of Rangasamy that holds seven seats, and the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, which has four members. Three members of the BJP have been nominated as MLAs. Unlike some other states, the nominated members can vote in the Puducherry assembly.Read more: 'Farmers of the sea': Rahul Gandhi interacts with fishing community in PuducherryPolitical analysts said the speaker can vote if there is a tie in case of a floor test and added that he cannot vote during a confidence motion. “A few more Congress MLAs will resign in the coming days…we are not sure if they want to join BJP or remain independent, but by February 20, the BJP’s majority will be proved,” said a local BJP leader.Experts said Bedi was removed so as to ensure that her actions did not hurt the BJP in the upcoming assembly polls.“Bedi’s actions may go against the BJP in the elections…so they wanted to neutralise the damage by bringing in Soundararajan, who is known to be more amicable,” political commentator Maalan Narayanan said||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/opposition-in-puducherry-calls-for-a-floor-test-101613590840635.html
18-02-2021||India||Centre issues new SOPs for international arrivals amid new Covid strains||The health ministry on Wednesday issued new guidelines for international arrival amid the spread of mutant variants of Covid-19, saying the latest rules will come into effect from 23:59 hours on February 22 and will be in force till further orders.On Tuesday, the ministry had informed that the South African variant was detected in four travelers returning from Africa and the Brazilian strain was found in a returnee from Brazil.“In the context of Covid-19, Government of India is following point of entry procedures for identifying international travellers, particularly at-risk travellers to India through multi-pronged strategy of thermal screening and testing,” the health ministry said in its updated guidelines.“There is increasing evidence that the mutant variant of SARS-CoV-2 are in circulation in many countries and these mutant variants are driving the pandemic in their country of origin.Read more: Fewest new Covid-19 cases in Delhi since April 30So far, the three SARS-CoV-2 variants in circulation viz-a-viz (i) UK variant (ii) South Africa variant and (iii) Brazil variant, have been detected in 86, 44 and 15 countries, respectively,” it added.According to the guidelines, all international travellers, except those coming on flights originating from the United Kingdom, Europe and Middle East, will require to submit a self-declaration form on the online Air Suvidha portal along with a negative Covid-19 RT-PCR report prior to travel.“This test should have been conducted within 72 hours prior to undertaking the journey. Each passenger shall also submit a declaration with respect to authenticity of the report and will be liable for criminal prosecution, if found otherwise,” the guidelines read.Read more: Covid-19: India records 11,610 new cases, 100 fatalities in 24 hoursBesides this, passengers will also require to submit an undertaking on the portal or otherwise to the aviation ministry through concerned airlines before undertaking the journey that they would abide by the decision of the appropriate government authority to undergo home quarantine/ self-monitoring of their health for 14 days, or as warranted.Arrival in India without a Covid negative report will only be allowed to those travelling in the exigency of death in the family, the guidelines read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-issues-new-sops-for-international-arrivals-amid-new-covid-strains-101613589297645.html
18-02-2021||India||SC allows NGO to challenge MP, Himachal anti-conversion laws||The Supreme Court on Wednesday allowed the Citizens for Justice and Peace (CJP), a non-government organisation (NGO), to challenge laws against religious conversion passed by Madhya Pradesh and Himachal Pradesh by amending its original plea questioning similar laws passed by Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand.In addition, the court also allowed the Muslim organization Jamait Ulama-i-Hind, to intervene in the proceedings. The organization alleged the laws led to the harassment of a large number of Muslim men and hence there was a need to oppose the legislation.On January 6 this year, the Supreme Court had issued notice to the Centre and the states of Uttarakhand and UP on two petitions challenging the validity of the Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Religious Conversion Ordinance, 2020 and the Uttarakhand Freedom of Religion Act, 2018. One of the petitions was filed by CJP, run by social activist Teesta Setalvad.Read more: SC denies registering suo motu contempt against Rajdeep SardesaiThe NGO moved an application to amend its petition by including two other similar anti-conversion laws passed by Madhya Pradesh and Himachal Pradesh. Senior advocate CU Singh who appeared for CJP, argued that the application seeks to challenge the Madhya Pradesh Freedom of Religion Ordinance, 2020 and the Himachal Pradesh Freedom of Religion Act, 2019 which raised similar questions of law relating to violation of fundamental rights.The application, filed through advocate Aparna Bhatt, stated that both the HP Act and MP Ordinance imposed obligations of “prior intimation, registration, scrutiny, and police enquiries as a precondition to marriage” which are unconscionable and obnoxious and unsustainable under Constitutional scheme.Read more: No link between Char Dham road widening and glacier burst, govt tells Supreme Court; hearing adjourned for 2 weeksA three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde allowed the application and posted the matter after two weeks. The CJP plea pointed out that the HP law contained provisions which were part of its 2006 law that was struck down by the Himachal Pradesh high court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-allows-ngo-to-challenge-mp-himachal-anti-conversion-laws-101613588745640.html
18-02-2021||India||Journalist Priya Ramani acquitted in defamation case||A Delhi court on Wednesday acquitted journalist Priya Ramani in a criminal defamation case filed by former Union minister MJ Akbar after she accused him of sexual misbehaviour during a work interview in December 1993, and emphasised in its judgment that the right to protect one’s reputation cannot be at the cost of a woman’s right to dignity.The court pointed out that even a person of high social standing can be a sexual harasser, and that a woman cannot be punished for raising instances of abuse.“The right of reputation cannot be protected at the cost of the right of life and dignity of woman as guaranteed in Indian Constitution under Article 21, and right of equality before law and equal protection of law as guaranteed under Article 14 of the Constitution,” additional chief metropolitan magistrate (ACMM) Ravindra Pandey said.“The woman has a right to put her grievance at any platform of her choice and even after decades,” the judgment stated.Shortly after the verdict, delivered at Delhi’s Rouse Avenue court, Ramani said it would “encourage more women to speak up”. Her lawyer Rebecca John said that the “path-breaking judgment” had upheld that “no truth is exempted from the purview of defamation; it has to be made for public good and in public interest.”Akbar’s lawyers said that they would comment only after studying the judgment.Read more: 'Priya Ramani stood up for all who screamed #MeToo': Twitter exultsIn October 2018, Ramani shared an article on Twitter which she had written in 2017 in Vogue India magazine following allegations of sexual assault and misconduct against Hollywood producer Harvey Weinstein made by several women as part of the Me Too movement in the United States. The article did not name MJ Akbar -- it described her experience of an interview with a newspaper editor for a reporter’s position -- but the Tweet did.Akbar, who was a minister in the BJP-led cabinet at the time resigned shortly after a host of women, besides Ramani, made allegations of sexual misconduct and harassment against him in the wake of the Me Too movement.He, however, filed a criminal defamation suit under Section 500 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), arguing that the incident was not as she described it in her article. He also said that a tweet by Ramani describing him as a “predator” had caused irreparable damage to his reputation.Read more: MJ Akbar defamation case: Judge quotes Mahabharata, Ramayana on importance of a woman's dignityAkbar’s lawyer Geeta Luthra argued that Ramani’s statements on Twitter were “per se defamatory” and questioned her decision to speak up several years after the purported incident. Luthra also pointed out during the course of the hearing—which spanned three years and saw two routine transfers of the ACMM—that Ramani had no evidence in the form of CCTV footage or phone records to back her claim.But the court, in its verdict, recognised that no legal remedies were available to Ramani when she was sexually harassed — the Vishaka Guidelines against sexual harassment, the Sexual Harassment of the Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act and Section 354 A which made sexual harassment a criminal offence, only came up in the subsequent years— and that many women opt not to complain even now due to the fear of stigma.“Most of the women who suffer abuse do not speak up about it for the simple reason of the shame or stigma attached with the sexual harassment. The sexual abuse, if committed against woman, takes away her dignity and her self confidence,” ACMM Dubey said.“The ‘glass ceiling’ will not prevent the Indian women as a road block for their advancement in the society, if equal opportunity and social protection be given to them,” the judgment stated.The judge accepted the argument put forward by John that the complainant MJ Akbar was not a man of stellar reputation on the basis of the testimonies put forward by Ramani and her witnesses, journalists Ghazala Wahab and Niloufer Venkatraman. Wahab had also levelled charges of sexual harassment against Akbar.“The court said I believe Priya Ramani, and I believe her truth… Not every truth is exempted from the purview of defamation. It has to be made for public good and in public interest. Given that sexual harassment at the workplace is one such truth, it was a defence we took and which the court upheld,” John said.“This is an exceedingly significant judgment because it upholds the dignity of women and finds that it is no less than the reputation of men in claims of defamation on account of accusations of sexual harassment or assault. The judgment also recognises that safety at the workplace is an extremely important feature for any woman to grow in her career, and that it is part of the fundamental right to life and livelihood,” advocate Mrunalini Deshmukh said.“However, as much as we must hail the victory as upholding women’s dignity and their safety at the workplace, it also puts a lot of responsibility on women to ensure that the law is followed and not abused,” she said.The case was first heard by ACMM Samar Vishal who was replaced by Vishal Pahuja in 2019. In a routine transfer late last year, Ravindra Pandey took over as ACMM of this court, which has been designated to fast-track cases against members of parliament and legislators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/journalist-priya-ramani-acquitted-in-defamation-case-101613588171536.html
18-02-2021||India||Tied with dupatta, 3 girls found unconscious in Uttar Pradesh field; 2 dead||Two out of three girls, aged between 13 and 16, were found dead in a field in Uttar Pradesh’s Unnao late Wednesday evening when they had gone to collect fodder, said police. The third girl, said to be critical, was rushed to Kanpur. The other two were declared brought dead on arrival by doctors.Froth was coming out of their mouths suggesting all of them were apparently poisoned, said the police.IG Lucknow, Laxmi Singh, and senior police officers were on the spot, which has been sealed. Forensic experts are also there. The sniffer dogs have also been roped in.According to reports, the oldest one is the aunt of two other girls.SP Unnao Anand Kulkarni said the girls had left the house around 3 pm to collect fodder from the family fields. When they did not return till late night, the family mounted a search with villagers.The girls were found in a corner of a field tied with a dupatta, belonging to one of the girls, in an unconscious state, he said.Kulkarni said several police teams were working on the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bound-with-dupatta-3-girls-found-unconscious-in-up-field-2-dead-101613586876795.html
18-02-2021||India||Popular Bengali actor joins BJP, another movie veteran and TMC MLA wants to quit||There were ripples in Bengal’s movie industry on Wednesday when Yash Dasgupta, a young and popular movie star, joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) while veteran actor and two-time Trinamool Congress (TMC) legislator Chiranjit Chakraborty wrote to chief minister Mamata Banerjee that he would quit politics if the party decided not to field him for the assembly polls to be held in March-April.A day after Bengal’s most popular actor and Bollywood veteran Mithun Chakraborty made headlines by hosting Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat at his Mumbai bungalow, stoking speculation on his return to politics, the Bengal unit of the BJP made noticeable inroads into Tollywood, as the state’s movie industry is popularly called since most of the studios are located in south Kolkata’s Tollygunge area. Chakraborty was a Rajya Sabha member of the TMC till he resigned from the Upper House in 2016.The BJP started to increase its presence in Tollywood soon after it won 18 of the state’s 42 Lok Sabha seats in 2019. On July 18 that year, as many as 13 actors joined the BJP in Delhi and Kolkata. While none of them are stars, all are popular faces on television or the big screen. For chief minister Mamata Banerjee, who has several actors among her former or sitting MPs and MLAs, this was embarrassing because most of those who joined the BJP criticised ruling party leaders of controlling the industry and not letting people work freely.“I am still young in the industry but I know that politics is not a bad thing. Politics is about change. If you want to change the system you have to be part of the system. I don’t want to remain just an actor. The BJP has always put its faith in the youth. I believe that I will get the opportunity to work,” said 35-year-old Yash Dasgupta after joining the party along with more than half a dozen actors, including Papiya Adhikari, a veteran.Dasgupta is known to be a close friend of TMC Lok Sabha member and popular star Nusrat Jahan. “Nusrat and I are good friends as actors. Our political identity has nothing to do with our friendship,” he said.The actors were welcomed into the BJP by national vice-president Mukul Roy, national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya and Rajya Sabha member Swapan Dasgupta at the party’s new media centre set up at a star-hotel in south Kolkata.“The BJP is not contesting the Bengal polls merely to capture power. We want to revive Bengal’s old glory that showed the path to the rest of the nation,” said Vijayvargiya.In an almost parallel development, Chiranjit Chakraborty, the TMC’s sitting legislator from Barasat in North 24 Parganas and who shared screen space with Mithun Chakraborty in several movies, told television channels that he had informed the chief minister about his desire to quit politics and return to acting if the party decides not to field him again.“When I was fielded for the first time in 2011, I told her that I do not belong to the world of politics. I did not want to contest in 2016 as well but she insisted that I must. I want to make it clear that I will never join any other party if I quit politics,” he said.Interestingly, speculations started since Tuesday about Prasenjit Chatterjee, another famous and award-winning actor.Anirban Ganguly, a senior member of the BJP’s think tank, met Chatterjee, the state’s most popular face among senior actors and son of former Bollywood superstar Biswajit, at the latter’s residence and presented the actor a copy of his book on Amit Shah. Since Biswajit joined the BJP in Delhi in January 2019, the meeting stoked rumours that his son, too, might join the saffron camp.Ganguly said the meeting had nothing to do with politics. “I met him at a personal level. Prasenjit is an icon in Bengal. Not everything should be judged from the political point of view. He has great regard for the Prime Minister and the Union home minister. We often meet eminent people only to interact and exchange views. Amit Shah started this,” Ganguly told HT.Till Wednesday evening, no TMC leader reacted to so many actors joining the BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/popular-bengali-actor-joins-bjp-another-movie-veteran-and-tmc-mla-wants-to-quit-101613585867092.html
18-02-2021||India||India calls for 'fresh' trade talks with US||India has called for a “fresh package” for trade talks with the United States and the new Biden administration that will go beyond, this time, the “nitpicking” and the constant shifting of goalposts that had bogged down the last round of discussions with the Trump administration.India and the United States had failed to agree on a deal that was pared down considerably in expectations to a “mini” agreement — also called an “interim” deal — to allow for a quick resolution of some long-standing issues that could pave the way for a more ambitious free trade agreement at a future date.Union commerce minister Piyush Goyal said Wednesday he will “engage with the new USTR (US trade representative) to try and put together a fresh package. I think the old one is now off the table. We’ll have to all look afresh at different ideas and see how our engagement in the future can, really, course-correct some of the problems that we’ve seen in the past”.Goyal and his US counterpart, Katherine Tai, the nominee for USTR have yet to meet or hold talks yet primarily because she had yet to be confirmed by US senate.Read more: To work towards inclusive Indo-Pacific, Quad to hold 3rd ministerial meet todayThe last round of trade talks between Goyal and Robert Lighthizer, who was the USTR for former President Donald Trump, had failed despite clear expectations of a resolution being close at hand. Goyal, in fact, had one stage expressed optimism that a deal was just a few phone-calls away.Indian officials have long complained, but privately, the Trump administration had kept adding to their list of asks and, pushing away an agreement every time it looked imminent.“I think the last time around when we were discussing, we were nitpicking with very small issues and changing the goalposts in every subsequent conversation,” Minister Goyal said at a virtual event hosted by the US-India Business Council (USIBC), conveying India’s frustration for the first time perhaps in such sharp terms.Read more: Kamala Harris as vice president further cements India-US ties: White House“I do hope this time around we can look at the big picture,” he said. “We have to sort out some of the issues which are much more relevant to a larger engagement and leave some of the small things, which earlier were kind of dealbreakers and therefore, a lot of management bandwidth or political bandwidth was going into very small issues. I think we need to leave those aside and move into the orbit of a much greater engagement.”Trade differences have been the single largest drag on India-US bilateral ties. They have withstood the growing trajectory in every other sphere and aspect of the multi-faceted engagement spanning across a wide spectrum, everything from cooperation on space to healthcare to defense and IT.The Trump administration had terminated India’s special benefits under a US trade programme to force India to give US companies access to its dairy sector and free medical devices from price regulations. Other elements got tacked as the US side tried to maximize its gains.Read more: US leaders dial Indian counterparts; talk cooperation in defence, Indo-PacificMinister Goyal spoke briefly about one of them, US demands on pharmaceuticals and medical devices. “Your American pharma companies are unhappy about our desire not to allow evergreening of pharma products, and they change the molecule a little bit and they call it a new innovation”.Goyal was referring to incremental modifications pharmaceutical companies make to their existing medicines to qualify them for higher prices as “new inventions”, a process called “evergreening”. India does not recognize them these minor changes as inventions worthy of higher prices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/india-calls-for-fresh-trade-talks-with-us-101613584022675.html
18-02-2021||India||9.06 mn doses of Covid-19 vaccines given to health staff take India to 3rd spot||The Principal Secretary to the Prime Minister, Dr. P K Mishra on Wednesday chaired a high-level meeting to review the progress of the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive and chalk out measures to expedite the pace of vaccination.The Cabinet Secretary, Secretary (Health), Secretary (Pharmaceuticals) and CEO (National Health Authority) were also present during the comprehensive review meet. The massive Covid-19 vaccination drive in the country was launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on January 16.Dr. Mishra was informed about the progress of the vaccination exercise. Till about 3.00 pm on Wednesday, the vaccination coverage in India had crossed 9.06 million doses, given mainly to healthcare workers and frontline workers. With this total number, India now ranks third globally after the United States (55.2 million doses) and the United Kingdom (16.12 million doses) — among nations that have completed more than 60 days of vaccination as compared to 31 days in the case of India.India has been the fastest country in the world to cross all milestones ranging from 1 million to 7 million total vaccinations so far.Nearly 68.3 per cent of all healthcare workers have been administered the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine, 37.6 per cent of eligible healthcare workers have been administered the second dose, 28.2 per cent of all frontline workers have been administered the first dose as well.The Principal Secretary was also informed that India has supplied Covid-19 vaccines to 13 countries as grants through the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA). Bangladesh, Myanmar, Bhutan, the Maldives, Nepal, Mauritius, Seychelles, Sri Lanka, Bahrain, Oman, Afghanistan, Barbados and the Dominican Republic are some of the countries which have received supplies of vaccines from India. In addition, the vaccine has also been sent to 14 countries (Bangladesh, Myanmar, Morocco, Brazil, Egypt, Algeria, South Africa, Kuwait, UAE, Saudi Arabia, Mexico, Dominican Republic, Saudi Arabia and El-Salvador) under commercial contracts.It was also discussed at the meeting that the version 2.0 of the Co-Win digital app for self-registration of vaccine beneficiaries is ready and would be launched soon. Plans to involve private sector healthcare facilities in a significant manner in the ongoing vaccination drive were also discussed. This will enable registration of the population in the 50 years+ category for the Covid-19 inoculation drive, which is the third population priority group after healthcare workers. Plans to involve private sector healthcare facilities in the ongoing vaccination drive were also mulled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/906-mn-doses-of-covid-19-vaccines-given-to-health-staff-take-india-to-3rd-spot-101613572804596.html
18-02-2021||India||PM Modi to address top military brass in Gujarat in March||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the country’s military’s leadership at a top conference of the armed forces to be held in Gujarat in March, people familiar with developments said on Wednesday. The Combined Commanders' Conference will be held at Kevadia in early March though the exact dates are still being worked out, they said.The conference was traditionally held in Delhi but has been organised outside the national capital during the last five years. In the past, it has been held on India’s solitary aircraft carrier INS Vikramaditya, Indian Military Academy, Dehradun, and Jodhpur.The top conference will be held at a time when India and China are in the midst of a disengagement process in eastern Ladakh, and the military is putting finishing touches to its theaterisation plan for the most advantageous utilisation of its resources to address growing security threats. The defence minister, the chief of defence staff and the three service chiefs will attend the conference.Read more: At NASSCOM event, PM Modi spotlights new mapping policy, says biggest consideration was on securityThe military is expected to make a presentation to the PM on the progress made towards the creation of theatre commands, said one of the officials cited above.India is set to begin a formal roll-out of its long-awaited theaterisation plan, with the Air Defence Command and the Maritime Theatre Command set to be launched by May, as reported by Hindustan Times on Wednesday.The commands are being set up in the backdrop of border tensions with China on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh and Pakistani hostility along the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir, with a joint threat from the two nuclear-armed neighbours being acknowledged as a reality by the country’s military leadership, and at a time when India is demonstrating a muscular stance in the Indo-Pacific region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-address-top-military-brass-in-gujarat-in-march-101613569405664.html
18-02-2021||India||Rail Roko: Railways deploys additional security across 4 states, calls for peace||Ahead of protesting farmers’ call for a four-hour rail blockade across the country from 12noon to 4pm on Thursday, railways has tightened security and deployed additional forces across Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal, according to officials aware of the development.The Railway Protection Force (RPF) has deployed 20 additional companies across the four states.“Railways has appealed for peace. We will have additional security focus on Punjab, Haryana, UP and Bengal. 20 additional companies of RPF have been deployed. We appeal to everyone to maintain peace calling for peaceful protests so as not to inconvenience passengers,” a railway ministry spokesperson said.Also Read | Farmers install CCTV cameras, toilets at Ghazipur border protest siteFarmer groups have called for a Rail Roko agitation on Thursday in a bid to amplify their protest against the three contentious farm laws. Samyukta Kisan Morcha, a united front of farmers’ unions, is spearheading the agitation.Earlier, farmers in Punjab had called for rail blockades across the state in September last year in protest against the farm laws, resulting in complete suspension of trains in the state for nearly two months. In November, amid the tussle between the Centre and the Punjab state government over allowing the passage of trains in the state, the Railways has claimed losses of nearly ₹1,200 crore in freight revenue with more than 2,225 goods trains suspended and 1,350 passenger trains cancelled and diverted.The railway ministry had also informed Parliament last week that it suffered losses of ₹1,462.45 crore in FY 2020-21 due to “various agitations/ strikes including Dharnas at platforms and near tracks”.Farmers have also suspended toll across Punjab and Haryana and Delhi NCR since December last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rail-roko-railways-deploys-additional-security-across-4-states-calls-for-peace-101613561341340.html
18-02-2021||India||Priya Ramani acquitted in MJ Akbar defamation case: What court said||Journalist Priya Ramani was acquitted by a Delhi court this afternoon over a defamation case filed by former Union minister MJ Akbar, whom she accused of sexual misconduct in 2018, at a time when the #MeToo campaign was sweeping across the globe.The court underscored that most women do not speak about harassment for the social stigma attached to it. “Right of the reputation cannot be protected at the cost of the right of a woman’s reputation guaranteed under Article 21,” the court said.Ramani, in a 2017 Vogue India article, detailed her experiences with a former boss, whom she called a “sexual predator”. Ramani, however, did not name MJ Akbar in the article. A year later, in 2018, Ramani named MJ Akbar in a tweet. The article led to more women coming out with their stories, alleging harassment at the hands of Akbar. Akbar, who was a junior minister in the first Modi government, filed a criminal defamation case against Ramani. The minister resigned shortly thereafter.The court’s top five observations:1) Two epics have been written to show the importance of dignity of a woman2) Sometimes even the victim does not understand as to what is happening. Despite going through extreme cruelty, the victim chooses to stay quiet.3) The court accepts the fact that complaint is not lodged due to the social stigma. The court said most women do not talk about the sexual harassment to prevent her dignity as she also has a family and has to go through the trauma.4) The court said that the victim has a right to put her grievance even after years and decades.5) The right of reputation cannot be protected at the cost of the right to dignity; right of reputation can't be weighed over the right of the life of a woman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/priya-ramani-acquitted-in-mj-akbar-defamation-case-what-court-said-101613558090013.html
18-02-2021||India||Uttarakhand disaster: Reni gets 1st warning system in case of sudden water surge||Reni, the most-affected village in Chamoli, has got its first siren-based early warning water-level sensor system in case of a sudden surge in Rishiganga waters.Reni was severely affected by the February 7 flash floods and authorities said that muck is still being removed from the village to recover bodies.State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) commandant Navneet Bhullar said they have set up the water-level sensor nearly one kilometre upstream of the village.“If the water level rises by few feet, the siren will be sounded and villagers will be alerted downstream to move away from the river,” he said.Also Read | Uttarakhand glacier burst: 31 of 58 recovered bodies identifiedBhullar said three SDRF teams have also been deployed to monitor the Rishiganga river upstream and downstream at Peng village, Rishiganga Dam site and Tapovan dam site to keep tabs on the water level.Ravi Chauhan, Everest summiteer and part of SDRF’s high altitude rescue team (HART), said they have conducted the final trial of the early warning water-level sensor system on Tuesday, and it is operational now.“If water rises by a few feet in the Rishiganga, the system will sound a siren to alert villagers downstream so that they can vacate the area well in time”, he said.Watch: After Chamoli flood, why Char Dham road project is in spotlight: Ground ReportA lake has formed in upstream Rishiganga, which has worried officials about the water level in Rishiganga. Even as it is slowly draining, various experts and SDRF is keeping track of the lake and taking various precautionary measures.The water level of Rishiganga had briefly risen, likely due to water draining from the lake, due to which the rescue and search operations had to be halted for over half an hour last week.The rescuers have so far recovered 58 bodies with 146 still missing. Of the 58, so far 11 bodies have been recovered from Tapovan dam tunnel. Out of the total bodies recovered, 29 have been identified. The search and rescue operation is still on inside the tunnel where rescuers have succeeded in clearing muck up to about 146 metres||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-disaster-reni-gets-1st-warning-system-in-case-of-sudden-water-surge-101613557801245.html
18-02-2021||India||Assam police arrest 4 digital journalists for salacious article on minister||Police in Guwahati have arrested two journalists of a digital news channel on charges of spreading salacious rumors about senior Assam minister Himanta Biswa Sarma and his minor daughter.Two others associated with two different digital platforms have been detained by the police for sharing the photo with sensational comments and content. They are Puli Muchahary of Bodoland Digital and Nang Noyonmoni Gogoi of Spotlight Assam.Taufiquddin Ahmad, editor-in-chief of Pratibimba Live news editor Iqbal were arrested by the Dispur police in Guwahati on Wednesday and are being questioned to probe if there was a conspiracy behind airing such news.Read more: Journalist Siddique Kappan, arrested last Oct while on way to Hathras, gets 5-day interim bail to meet ailing motherGP Singh, ADGP (Law and Order) tweeted that the case has been lodged under section 509 of IPC for insulting modesty of a woman as well as Sections 14 to 21 of the POCSO Act for spreading “salacious news article about an honourable minister of government of Assam and attempts to malign familial bond”.“People are strongly advised not to give air to such attempts since posting such pictures with malicious intention attracts provision of POCSO Act. Assam Police would take strong action against all such attempts under stringent provisions of POCSO Act,” Singh tweeted.“Action shall be taken against all persons irrespective of their place of residence who use any of the social media platforms to maliciously use such platforms for furthering their conspiracy,” he added.Read more: Journalist Priya Ramani acquitted in defamation caseFollowing the arrest of the two journalists, Sarma said he was surprised by the “conspiracies” to target him.“My wife has lodged a police case in this regard. I am surprised that people would stoop so low in their conspiracies to target me that they are now showing a photo of mine taken with my minor daughter in such manner," Sarma told journalists.The attempts at giving a scandalous twist to a photo of a father and daughter have been condemned by many in Assam.“I am totally disturbed and outraged to see few interest groups writing the most uncharitable things on an affectionate photograph of an Assam cabinet minister and his minor daughter,” wrote child rights activist Miguel Das on Facebook.“I am doubly upset to see how social media users are sharing that photograph, and those distasteful comments, without an iota of conscience,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-police-arrest-2-digital-journalists-for-salacious-article-on-minister-101613548040659.html
18-02-2021||NA||Highlights: 35-yr-old arrested for attacking Delhi Police SHO at Singhu border||The protest against farm laws entered its 82nd day on Wednesday. The protests against the three laws which were passed during the monsoon session of the Parliament last year took a fresh turn after Bengaluru-based climate change activist Disha Ravi was arrested.Ravi’s arrest has led to widespread condemnation of the government with farmers’ unions representatives and opposition parties demanding that the 21-year-old should be released from police custody immediately.BJP’s senior leaders also discussed mitigation strategies to end the deadlock between the government and the farmers’ unions representatives with party chief JP Nadda and Union home minister Amit Shah meeting party leaders who belong to farmers’ communities of Haryana, Rajasthan and western Uttar Pradesh and told them to clear misconceptions about the agri laws.Follow LIVE updates on the farm laws protests here:Follow all the updates here:35-yr-old arrested for attacking Delhi Police SHO at Singhu borderOfficials said on Wednesday that a 35-yr-old man was arrested for allegedly attacking SHO of the Delhi Police at the Singhu border. The accused has been identified as Harmeet Singh, they said.Protest will go on till Centre repeals farm laws, says UP CongUttar Pradesh Congress president Ajay Kumar Lallu said on Wednesday that the protest against the Centre's three new farm laws would continue till the laws are repealed by the Centre. He ﻿he alleged that the central government is using its majority in Parliament to crush the voice of opposition and impose the three laws on farmers.Disha Ravi was arrested without informing K'taka govt, says Cong MPCongress Rajya Sabha MP said on Wednesday that climate activist Disha Ravi was arrested without informing the Karnataka government and the state's police force. "These kinds of arrests have also been done in CAA-NRC cases, in Punjab who have been agitating against farm laws," the Rajya Sabha MP added.Farmers will not return home till they win, says BKU leaderWith the farmers protest against the Centre's three news farm laws continuing for the 82nd day, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Gurnam Singh Chaduni said on Wednesday that the Union was fighting for the rights of the farmers and they (farmers) would not return home till they have won."We are fighting for the rights of farmers and they will not return home till they win, and time does not matter in this struggle," Chaduni was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.Railways deploys 20 additional RPSF companies ahead of rail roko agitationThe Indian Railways has deployed 20 additional companies of the Railway Protection Special Force ahead of the farmers's rail roko agitation tomorrow. Special focus has been placed on states such as Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal.Cops seized hard disk from Shanatanu Muluk's house, says fatherGreen activist Shantanu Muluk's father Shivlal told local police on Tuesday that two people, claiming to Delhi Police personnel seized a computer hard disk and other items from Shantanu's house in Maharashtra's police on February 12 without producing a search warrant. Shanatanu has been named as a suspect in the "toolkit" case related to the farmers' protest.Protesters install CCTVs, toilets at Delhi's Ghazipur borderThe farmers protesting against the Centre's three new farm laws were seen installing CCTV cameras and toilets at the Ghazipur border in the national capital. Speaking to news agency ANI, one of the protesters said that goons had misbehaved with the farmers in the past and that is why cameras were being installed at the protest site to identify such anti-social elements in future.Congress MLA requests Karnataka CM Yediyurappa to 'bring back' Disha Ravi21 year old Climate Change activist Disha Ravi, from our lingayat community was taken to away to Delhi from Bengaluru and is being charged with sedition for supporting the farmers protests. I request @bsybjp to take notice and bring back our Bengaluru girl. 1/2 pic.twitter.com/V4eVJA6bzHLakshmi Hebbalkar, MLA from Belgavi, Karnataka, tweeted requesting CM BS Yediyurappa to "bring back" Disha Ravi, the 21-year-old arrested in the 'toolkit' case.She also said that two lingayat leaders, Rajat Ullagaddimath and Dhruv Jatti, had submitted a memorandum to her, on Wednesday.Nikita Jacob granted three-week transit anticipatory bail by Bombay high courtBombay High Court allows transit anticipatory bail application of Nikita Jacob, grants her transit bail for 3 weeks in connection with FIR by Delhi police in Toolkit matter. In case of arrest, she will be released on a personal bond of ₹25,000 and one surety of like amount. pic.twitter.com/2yZBhEPaYPBombay High Court allows transit anticipatory bail application of Nikita Jacob, grants her transit bail for 3 weeks in connection with FIR by Delhi police in Toolkit matter, reports ANI.Watch | Maninder Singh, arrested in connection with Red Fort violence, brandishing weapons#WATCH: Delhi Police Special Cell arrested Maninder Singh, wanted in connection with Red Fort violence. He was arrested from Pitam Pura & 2 swords were recovered from his house in Swaroop NagarVisuals from Jan 26 where Maninder Singh was seen brandishing 2 'khandas' at Red Fort pic.twitter.com/Tr51IyGLWeManinder Singh, arrested in connection with the violence at Red Fort on January 26, seen brandishing weapons during the incident, reported by ANI.MP Revanth Reddy concludes 10-day march, in support of farmers protest, with tractor rallyOn @INCIndia call to support #FarmersProtests took up the #RajivRaithuBharosaPadayatra for 10days & ended with a massive tractor rally with 1000 tractors participation.This response Shatters any misconception that there is no discontent against the #FarmLaws in south India. pic.twitter.com/lG7pCFusL3Telangana Congress MP Revanth Reddy tweeted "This response Shatters any misconception that there is no discontent against the #FarmLaws in south India."Delhi Police arrests another suspect in tractor rally violence caseA most wanted person in Red Fort violence case, Maninder Singh, arrested by Delhi Police Special Cell near Pitam Pura yesterday. Two swords recovered from his house in Swaroop Nagar. Further interrogation of the accused is underway: Delhi PoliceDelhi Police says it has arrested an individual named Maninder Singh on Tuesday. The police says Singh was among the most wanted in the Red Fort violence case. Two swords were also recovered from his house, news agency ANI reported.Delhi Police says SHO received minor injuries in a scuffle at Singhu borderA Delhi Police SHO received minor injuries after he was attacked by an agitator at Singhu border y'day. Agitator was in inebriated state & was attempting to snatch a Policeman's car. When stopped, he attacked SHO with a sharp object & was arrested near Mukarba Chowk: Delhi PoliceDelhi Police says it has arrested an agitator at the Singhu border on Wednesday. Police told news agency ANI that the individual was in an inebriated state and attempted to snatch a cop's car while trying to attack an SHO with a sharp object near the Singhu border.Farmer leader Chhotu Ram's birth anniversary celebratedAgitating farmers paid floral tribute to farmer leader Chhotu Ram on his birth anniversary &gave roses to commuters at Shambhu on Punjab-Haryana border y'day. "By giving roses, we want to send a message to govt that we love this country as much as anyone else does," a farmer said pic.twitter.com/1M4XRa8Wf0Floral tributes were paid to farmer leader Chhotu Ram during his birth anniversary at Delhi's borders yesterday where farmers' unions representatives have been protesting for almost three months.Union minister Giriraj Singh targets Rahul Gandhi over support to climate activistSingh said if Rahul Gandhi supports Disha Ravi then he should also answer if he along with opposition parties should decide the course of law. "I want to ask Rahul Gandhi and the Opposition, will they decide the course of law? If they are in support of Disha because she is 21-year-old, they should tell whether we should punish Nirbhaya convict or not. Kasab was a terrorist from Pakistan. Shouldn't Kasab be hanged to death because of his age?", the Union minister was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/latest-updates-farm-laws-live-protests-bku-narendra-tomar-disha-ravi-farmers-protests-narendra-modi-rahul-gandhi-nikita-jacob-agri-rules-tikait-kisan-mahapanchayat-101613524490327.html
18-02-2021||India||ED attaches over ₹17cr Amnesty India assets in laundering case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has attached ₹17.66 crore bank deposits of Amnesty International in connection with its money laundering probe against the human rights organisation, which shut its India operations in September last year alleging harassment by the government.In a statement issued on Tuesday, the ED said the provisional order has been issued under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) for attaching bank accounts of Amnesty International India Pvt Ltd (AIIPL) and Indians for Amnesty International Trust (IAIT). Till date, the ED has attached properties worth ₹19.54 crore belonging to Amnesty. ED had launched a probe against Amnesty in October 2018 on the basis of a case registered by Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI).Read more: Topsgrup case: ED summons Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority chiefAccording to the ED, Amnesty International India Foundation Trust (AIIFT) had been granted permission under FCRA, 2010 in 2011-12 for receiving foreign contribution from Amnesty International UK. However, the same was cancelled on the basis of the adverse inputs received.Read more: Panchkula land scam: ED files chargesheet against Bhupinder Hooda, 21 others“Since permission was denied during the year 2011-12, AIIPL and IAIT were formed in the year 2013-14 and 2012-13 respectively to escape the FCRA route and carried out NGO activities in the guise of service export and FDI ,” it said. The firm doesn’t have a spokesperson or office bearer in India anymore to offer comments on the development.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-attaches-over-rs-17cr-amnesty-india-assets-in-laundering-case-101613498602585.html
18-02-2021||India||RSS may decide on new general secretary in March meet||Will the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh get a new general secretary in 2021?That’s a question that could be decided at the upcoming meeting of its highest decision-making body, the Akhil Bharatiya Pratinidhi Sabha, in Bengaluru on March 19 and 20.The body is also expected to discuss the stir against the new farm laws; issues pertaining to the construction of the Ram Temple in Ayodhya; and the impact of Covid-19 pandemic.Read more: RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat visits actor Mithun Chakraborty, sparks off rumors ahead of Bengal pollsThe incumbent general secretary of the RSS, or Sarkaryawah as he is known, Suresh Bhaiyyaji Joshi has held the position for 12 years and there could be an election to pick his successor in Bangalore said persons aware of the details. As per the RSS constitution, elections are held every three years. Also, in keeping with the Covid-19 protocol, only 40% of the 1,300 delegates will be allowed to attend in person.Read more: RSS to lead efforts to formulate Ganga action planIn 2018, there was speculation that Joshi, now 73 would step down from his position. However, he was given a mandate for the fourth term. “The new Sarkaryawah’s appointment will be keenly watched as the Sangh is currently in the process of expanding its reach. In 2025 it will complete a centenary of its existence and the occasion will be marked by country-wide programmes,” said a Sangh functionary who asked not to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rss-may-decide-on-new-general-secretary-in-march-meet-101613497745657.html
18-02-2021||India||PM Modi: Small farmers already benefiting from new laws||Farmers are coming forward to expose the “politics of lies” by those who brought foreign companies into the sector but are now creating scare over three new farm laws that aim to open up agriculture trade, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Tuesday.Laying the foundation stone for 11th century warrior king Suheldev’s memorial via video-conferencing, he said the new laws, which have triggered widespread protests near Delhi, will benefit small and marginal farmers the most.“The new farm laws are already benefiting small farmers…But efforts are being made to spread misinformation,” Modi said, dedicating to people a medical college in Bahraich at the same event. He also inaugurated the Chittaura Lake development project near the city.Read more: Behind PM Modi’s stinging critique of the IAS, a Jan meeting holds the clue“Those who enacted laws to invite foreign companies in Indian agriculture markets are trying to scare the people using names of Indian companies. The farmers are now exposing this politics of lies,” he said in his 30-minute speech.Though Modi did not elaborate or name any political party in this context, he was apparently referring to the Congress, which has supported the protest by farmers. Modi’s Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has in the past claimed that other parties too advocated farm reforms, but failed to implement them.Uttar Pradesh Congress leader Surendra Rajput said the PM should speak about the present, and not the past or the future. “He should remember he is holding the office of the Prime Minister of India, and not working as an actor,” Rajput said. PM’s remarks came at a time when thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, are camping on Delhi’s borders to protest the three laws passed by Parliament in September.Read more: PM Modi to address webinar for effective implementation of budget provisions in infrastructure sectorFarmers say the reforms would make them vulnerable to exploitation by big corporations, erode their bargaining power and weaken the government’s minimum support price (MSP) system, which offers cultivators assured prices from the government, largely for wheat and rice. The government says the reforms were much-needed, will give farmers more options and eventually benefit them.AK Singh, former director at Giri Institute of Development Studies in Lucknow, said “both the advantages and apprehensions over the farm laws have been exaggerated”. “The PM should speak to farmers to work out a compromise on the issue.” Governor Anandiben Patel and chief minister Yogi Adityanath attended the programme organised to mark the birth anniversary of Suheldev, an icon of the state’s Rajbhar community.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-small-farmers-already-benefiting-from-new-laws-101613497487010.html
18-02-2021||Today's||Navigating Centre-state fiscal ties||India is a “Union of states”. The Constitution, in its Seventh Schedule, lays down separate and concurrent responsibilities shared by the Union government and states. Politics, however, has blurred these boundaries. Successive central governments have unleashed their centralising impulse to gain political control by directing expenditures through central schemes on state subjects.In 2015, three structural reforms fundamentally reset the terms of Centre-state fiscal relations. First, the 14th Finance Commission enhanced the share of states in the divisible pool, thereby reducing fiscal space for the Centre to direct expenditure through schemes. Second, the Planning Commission was dismantled and with it, the practice of plan funds transferred to states (perceived as a tool for centralisation) was discontinued. Third, with the roll-out of the Goods and Services Tax (GST), states traded fiscal autonomy for expected revenue enhancement and deeper cooperation with the Centre.These structural changes created new sites of tension and, in the ensuing tug-of-war, the Centre secured the upper hand. It retained fiscal space through increased levies on cess and surcharges (not shareable with states), thus reducing the size of the divisible pool. In the revised estimates for FY 20, cess and surcharge (not counting GST cess) accounts for 21% of gross revenue receipts. The divisible pool accounts for merely two-thirds of the Centre’s gross revenues. The practice of central schemes continued, and indeed expanded, and simultaneously, state contribution to schemes also increased.The final victory was in drafting the Terms of Reference (TOR) of the Fifteenth Finance Commission (FFC). The controversial TOR sought to bias FFC by nudging it to reduce the share of states in the divisible pool, explore separate mechanism for defence funding and direct State expenditure toward centrally determined goals for “New India 2022”. FFC has done a credible job of navigating this controversial TOR. However, in doing so, it has not only re-enacted the centralisation vs decentralisation tug-of-war, but opened newer sites of contestation at the local level.Consider the two key recommendations. First, on vertical devolution. To its great credit, FFC has retained vertical devolution at 41% of the divisible pool of taxes. It has also navigated the controversy over using 2011 rather than the 1971 Census as the base for determining revenue share, which the southern states feared would result in reductions in their resource pool by incorporating the demographic performance criterion in its devolution formula. On defence, FFC has artfully avoided dipping into the divisible pool and recommended the creation of a non-lapsable defence fund.But, in the fine print, the Centre has ample room to maintain, indeed deepen, the status quo. FFC has accommodated for the practice of using cess and surcharge to retain revenue. In fact, by its calculation, cess will increase during its award period. FFC is clear on the need to rationalise and reform central schemes. But it has recommended performance-based sectoral grants to states. The Centre on its part, is contemplating, in its Action Taken Report, to link these grants with existing schemes, thus reinforcing the status quo.Second, on states vs local governments. FFC recommends generous grants to local governments, but the nature of these recommendations reflects the tensions inherent in the refusal of state governments to fulfill their constitutional obligation to local governments. As Raj Chelliah infamously said, everyone wants decentralisation, but only until his level. With rare exceptions, states have deprived local governments of funding, reducing them to mere implementing agents. In responding to this failure, FFC has imposed conditions on states. No local government grants will be released if states do not set up finance commissions and implement recommendations by March 2024. It is unclear what incentives states will have to comply with. Local governments will now be more dependent on the vagaries of states than they have in the past when FC grants were assured. Moreover, funds to local governments are carefully directed to achieve central priorities rather than allowing local governments to fulfill their role as elected governments responding to the needs of their electorate.Finally, FFC’s observations on the federal structure raise important questions for the future of fiscal federalism. FFC rightly calls out the fundamental tension in India’s fiscal relations — the growing central intervention in state and concurrent subjects. In interviews, FFC chairman NK Singh has argued for re-visiting the Seventh Schedule.What this debate misses, however, is the fundamental reality of a politics that incentivises centralisation. Addressing this requires an institutional site to negotiate Centre-state dynamics. Ironically, in dismantling the overly centralising Planning Commission, the only available institutional space for these negotiations has been lost.More than revisiting the Seventh Schedule, India needs mechanisms for institutionalised deliberation with states. FFC has opened the debate. The real question is whether a government that actively seeks to centralise can credibly respond and navigate the growing tensions in Centre-state fiscal relations.Yamini Aiyar is president and chief executive, Centre for Policy Research The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/navigating-centre-state-fiscal-ties-101613570341856.html
18-02-2021||Today's||How India is weakening its case on terrorism||If there is one country that has been short-changed by the international order on issues relating to terrorism, more specifically cross-border terrorism, it is India. The Indian narrative on terrorism has been loud since the 1980s, but falling mostly on deaf ears, especially at forums such as the United Nations (UN).New Delhi’s echoes on the perils of terrorism got a voice back predominantly in the post-9/11 era, and that too with mostly residual support for historical Indian concerns. Debates in and around the fundamentals of what terrorism entails, and how to deal with it, have been unresolved at the UN for decades. Member-states have failed to conclude a universal benchmark, choosing instead to use open-ended terminologies and vacillating between academic takes and real-world policy applications predominantly led by individual States and their geopolitical aims.The lack of clarity on countering terrorism, specifically within the UN Security Council (UNSC), has cost India tremendously both in economic and human capital. Till today, almost on a weekly basis, Indian troops die in theatres such as Kashmir while battling terrorism. This is a continuous reminder of the international community, UN and UNSC’s abject and fundamental failures in achieving their most primal aims towards a peaceful world order.However, increasingly, India’s firm and correct stance on terrorism not only from its own perspective, but a global one, is arguably getting diluted with the terms “terrorist” and “terrorism” applied to the most frivolous domestic challenges. This ranges from countering political narratives to attempts to label political ideations, dissent or the simple act of disagreement, as “terrorism”. Of course, the lack of a clear definition only adds to the potential of obfuscating narratives.To put this in perspective, the eighth report of India’s Second Administrative Reforms Commission on combating terrorism, published in June 2008, highlights the conundrums of defining terrorism while listing the various sub-categories, from ideology (Left and Right-wing terror) and religion to ethno-nationalism and narco-terror. In the end, the report highlights the short legal definition proposed by Dutch scholar Alex P Schmid to the UN Crime Branch in 1992, which reads: “An act of terrorism=peacetime equivalent of a war crime”. But even this is wrapped around caveats, showcasing that a State or a commission’s most nuanced attempt on defining terror is, in no manner, the final word.So, the question then remains, why use “terrorism” as an absolutist term for messaging with regard to domestic political cracks? The broad stroke use of laws such as the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, and extending the anti-terrorism narrative to issues such as an organisation “sending too many emails” over environmental rules or localised political debates, may cause grave harm to the slow, steady and arguably positive progress New Delhi has made over decades to elbow-in its concerns about the organised terrorism it faces from its immediate neighbourhood.A hyper-connected, social media-led world has added further to the complexities that we witness regarding narrative construction and destruction. The government and its functionaries may not use such terms directly themselves. But their ecosystems, which provide them with both digital and electoral oxygen, using terms such as “terrorist”, without realising its larger implication, is equally problematic, if not more, considering no course correction is offered from the political class. We now often witness ministers and senior government functionaries using a cocktail of social media and diaspora politics to shore up support, where once again the labelling of “terrorism” is at times used in a worryingly superficial manner.Defining or classifying terrorism distinctly in two separate domains, one as part of foreign policy and one as part of domestic politics, is an unsustainable mission, and one that many countries have tried and failed to play in the past. This is a group of countries that India must not to get clubbed with. Labelling democratic actors, whether dissenters or protesters, without a watertight case of terrorism, is a slippery slope, and one that is bound to attract unwanted attention.The label of terrorism should not be seen as a play of strength to build domestic rapport. As scholar C Raja Mohan recently noted, “Without a visible and sincere political effort to promote unity at home, internal divisions will get worse and make India more vulnerable to external meddling.” Trivialising India’s posture on terrorism in the international community can undo years of steady gains, for the short-term and myopic benefits of political support, ideological one-upmanship and electoral victories in the country’s never-ending election cycles.Kabir Taneja is fellow, Strategic Studies Programme, Observer Research Foundation, and the author of The ISIS Peril: The World’s Most Feared Terror Group and its Shadow on South Asia The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/how-india-is-weakening-its-case-on-terrorism-101613569867532.html
18-02-2021||Today's||Changing the status quo for social media companies in India||The ministry of electronics and information technology (MeitY) is engaged in a tussle with Twitter over its directions to block certain accounts. While the legal framework empowers the government to act, the episode throws up larger questions on policy gaps with regard to content regulation, and areas of ambiguity even where policy exists. Globally, social media firms are protected by the “safe harbour provision”. This protects the intermediary, say Twitter or Google, from being penalised for harmful or unlawful content, if it is not created or modified by it, or if the platform did not have knowledge of such content posted by a user.The United States offers similar protection to internet companies through Section 230 of the Communications Decency Act. In Europe, the e-Commerce Directive 2000, provides protection to internet intermediaries if they act only as a conduit and do not have knowledge of unlawful content. In recent years, the Indian judiciary has tried to clarify ambiguous provisions related to the liability of intermediaries to take down unlawful content, while keeping in mind the fundamental right to freedom of expression of users.Europe is leading the effort to effectively regulate intermediaries. In 2020, building on its e-Commerce Directive, it introduced a comprehensive Digital Services Act for handling online content, liability of intermediaries and diligence requirements, and protection of the fundamental rights of individuals. Obligations of intermediaries include timely notification to law enforcement agencies in case of illegal content, content takedown obligations, transparency disclosures such as details of account suspensions and content removals, rules on digital advertising, appointment of compliance officers and conducting annual audits.Australia incorporated stricter rules after the Christchurch terrorist attack. The Criminal Code Amendment (Sharing of Abhorrent Violent Material) Act, 2019, mandates social media platforms to remove violent content and imposes a large penalty in case of non-compliance — 10% of the annual turnover of the company.In India, MeitY proposed amendments to the extant Intermediary Guidelines of 2011 in 2018 to include mandatory use of technology in content moderation and data disclosures to the government. These are still under review as the government seeks to align it with the pending Personal Data Protection Bill.While existing provisions give the State enough room to act, a change in status quo for more credible and effective interventions is urgently needed. This can only happen with the participation and deliberation of tech companies, civil society, academia and governments. Together, they can create the necessary balance between controlling misinformation/ unlawful content and protection of citizen rights, including freedom of speech. MeitY should consider following the guiding principles of transparency, accountability and grievance redressal. For transparency, each social media intermediary must disclose, in a timely manner, the process followed in moderating content, technology applied, categorisation of content between lawful and unlawful, and taking down of content. For accountability, make the principle of “duty of care” central, ie, intermediaries should be made responsible by imposing positive obligations on them to prevent users from harming others. And for grievance redress and dispute resolution, set up an independent quasi-judicial body with provisions for following the due process of law.Additionally, MeitY may consider emulating the European classification of intermediaries, which segregates social media platforms into a sub-heading, “online platforms” with separate rules. Global rules on intermediary liability or content takedown regulations are largely absent, and social media companies have been self-regulating. Here, the G20 Digital Economy Taskforce can play an important role. As internet giants have porous territorial boundaries, it can provide a neutral platform for sharing best practices to create global standards and guidelines for liability of social media intermediaries.Ambika Khanna is a senior researcher at the international law studies programme, Gateway HouseThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/changing-the-status-quo-for-social-media-companies-in-india-101613568783244.html
18-02-2021||Editorials||In J&K, the unfinished democratic agenda||Over 20 foreign diplomats are in Jammu and Kashmir (J&K), meeting political and civil society stakeholders and assessing the ground situation in the Union Territory (UT). The Centre has organised the visit — this is the third such batch of diplomats — to showcase its claims of normalcy and progress in J&K, 18 months after the decision to effectively abrogate Article 370, bifurcate the erstwhile state, and turn it into a UT. In the aftermath of the August 2019 move, there was widespread international concern over the detention of leaders, a crackdown on connectivity and rights, and the implications for regional geopolitics and security. The government has, since then, substantially restored connectivity, released key regional leaders, including former chief ministers, and held local body elections, which saw the participation of mainstream Kashmiri forces. With this, the government believes that its move to overhaul the constitutional status of J&K is slowly paying dividends.The Centre’s willingness to both open up democratic space in J&K and engage with foreign interlocutors on the issue is positive — though it would have been more credible if the diplomats were allowed to meet diverse stakeholders, including those who operate within the Indian Constitution, but are sharply critical of the Centre’s policies. More importantly, the task of restoring democracy in J&K remains unfinished.First, the government must prioritise the protection of civil liberties — do remember that juxtaposing liberty against security only breeds alienation, and while there must be no let-up in countering terrorism, ensuring citizens in J&K enjoy the same rights as citizens elsewhere in India, at all times, is important. Second, it must recognise that the situation remains politically fragile. The mood in the Valley, as reflected in the local elections and the support garnered by the Gupkar alliance, remains one of distrust of the Centre and its moves. One way to address this is by beginning the process of restoring statehood — home minister Amit Shah said this would be done at an “appropriate time”; that time should come sooner rather than later. This then will enable the third step — free and fair elections to the assembly elections, with widespread participation and legitimacy. For the sake of Indian democracy, pluralism, and its own image globally, the Centre must focus on the twin tasks of both managing peace and cementing democracy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/in-j-k-the-unfinished-democratic-agenda-101613568661596.html
18-02-2021||Editorials||Covid-19: The threat of a second wave||Maharashtra is seeing a resurgence of Covid-19 cases again, weeks after the state government relaxed some restrictions, including the wider opening of the Mumbai local trains. The spike is particularly noticeable in Mumbai and its surrounding areas, and has been attributed by experts to the resumption of trains, relaxation of curbs and the laxity in Covid-19-appropriate behaviour. The seven-day average of daily infections in the state (also referred to as the case trajectory of a region) has increased by 800 cases a day in the last six days. It was 2,415 for the week ending January 11 (the lowest since May), and has touched 3,215 on January 17. This is a worrying trend for a state that has been worst-hit by Covid-19 in the country by a massive margin.This rise has coincided with the detection of the two mutations of the Sars-CoV-2 virus in India. Scientists fear this can make vaccines less effective and trigger re-infections. India now has all three of the coronavirus variants that have caused a massive resurgence of cases globally — B.1.1.7, first discovered in the United Kingdom; B.1.351, dominant in South Africa; and P.1, from Brazil. These have a unique collection of mutations, which make them spread more readily or cheat vaccine-immunity.An increase in cases in hotspots such as Maharashtra, coupled with the presence of more dangerous variants in the country, generates fears that the pandemic may begin a much-feared second wave. Complacency now, among governments and people alike, when a vaccine roll-out is underway and cases nationwide are at the lowest level in over eight months, can undo months of progress and sacrifices made in the fight against the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/covid19-the-threat-of-a-second-wave-101613568605604.html
