22-02-2021||News||Congress needs to worry more about rebels than opponents in Puducherry||Puducherry CM V Narayanasamy exuded confidence regarding Congress winning the upcoming election after the fall of his government in the Union territory on Monday. At the same time, party strategists are worried that the fall of the government will be seen by the electorate as a sign that the Congress’s house is not in order.This could be because while Puducherry is a Congress-Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) stronghold (DMK was Congress’ partner in the Union territory’s government), the only recent electoral challenge they have faced is also from a party formed by a rebel leader—the All India NR Congress (AINRC).Also Read | Narayanasamy loses trust vote, Congress govt falls in Puducherry: What next?The Congress and DMK together have won over 50% seats in every assembly elections in Puducherry since 1980, except in 2011. The two parties were also the only winners of the lone Lok Sabha seat from the Union territory in every Lok Sabha election since 1967, except in 2014, when the seat went to the AINRC.This long record of having won in Puducherry could be the reason for the Congress’ confidence about the upcoming election. On the other hand, even winning the assembly election this year would not be a guarantee of running the government if the party’s MLAs jump ship after the election. Governments formed by the party after winning elections have fallen in Madhya Pradesh and Karnataka, and there have been intermittent crises in Rajasthan as well.The only challenge to the Congress and DMK’s dominance in the Union territory’s elections has come not from the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam or the Bharatiya Janata Party, but AINRC, which was formed by a former Congress chief minister, N Rangasamy. Whether or not the MLAs who have resigned from the Congress, leading to a fall of Narayanasamy’s government, float a joint front in the forthcoming elections, remains to be seen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/congress-needs-to-worry-more-about-rebels-than-opponents-in-puducherry-101613995941195.html
22-02-2021||Other||Laundry machines worth ₹6.25 lakh at disbanded isolation centres in Ludhiana gathering dust||Installed with an aim of maintaining hygiene at the isolation centres set up at Meritorious School and the hostel of Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), two laundry machines, which cost the administration ₹6.25 lakh each, are gathering dust ever since the isolation centres were closed about three months ago.The machines, having a capacity of 60kg each, were installed at the isolation centres in May 2020 for washing clothes, bedsheets and pillow covers used by asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic positive patients recuperating at quarantine centres. The administration had bought these machines with the money received from the State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF). The isolation centers were closed in November after the number of cases in the district saw a considerable dip and the government started allowing home isolation.Meanwhile, the Meritorious School and its hostel were thrown open to students last week. The laundry machines, however, remain a white elephant.When asked, civil surgeon Dr Sukhjeevan Kakkar said the machines will be shifted to the civil hospitals at Khanna or Jagraon or any other government-run medical facility as per the requirement.“We had bought these machines with an aim to provide the best hygiene standards to patients at isolation centres. But currently, we are facing an issue as the company which had installed the machine is stating that they will charge ₹2 lakh for disassembling, transporting and reassembling the laundry machine,” said Dr Kakkar.He added that the beds, chairs, clothes and other material from isolation centres have already been shifted. When contacted ADC (development) Sandeep Kumar said, “The representative of the company concerned, which was to shift the machines, was shown various sites, and we are hoping that the issue will be resolved soon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/laundry-machines-worth-rs-6-25-lakh-at-disbanded-isolation-centres-in-ludhiana-gathering-dust-101614018568784.html
22-02-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad identifies 188 sites to vaccinate over 6 lakh third category beneficiaries in 15 days||With just one round of Covid-19 vaccination left for frontline workers, Ghaziabad health department officials said that they are gearing up for the third and largest category of beneficiaries -- people over 50 years and those with comorbidities. This phase will have 15 rounds and 616,000 beneficiaries for their first dose in the district alone. It is expected to begin next march.“Catering to such a large number of beneficiaries is a major challenge. First issue will be of listing people. For any vaccination day, we may have to accommodate those who may be travelling or out of station. So, we have made teams who will keep a tab on beneficiaries. Next, we have limited resources and staff. We have roped in 83 private sector establishments and will be able to get support of their staff as well,” said Dr NK Gupta, the district chief medical officer. The health department has designated 188 session sites and 337 teams for 15 days. The beneficiaries will have to get their second dose of the vaccine after 28 days.“All the session sites are hospitals or healthcare facilities, and they will come in handy in case we get adverse events following immunisation (AEFI) events. Next, we are waiting for further directions from the state government,” Dr Gupta said. The health department has completed the vaccination rounds for the healthcare workers who are categorised as first category. The second category is of frontline workers whose final mop up round is scheduled for February 25. On Monday, the penultimate mop up round for frontline workers saw 2,582 of the 6,415 expected beneficiaries take their first shot.District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey also took the shots and said that he suffered no AEFI issues. Overall, about 9493 of 18100 identified frontline workers so far have taken the shots with coverage of about 52.44%. The overall figure for completed rounds for healthcare workers stood at 74.26% coverage with 17641 getting the vaccine shots of the total identified 23754 beneficiaries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-identifies-188-sites-to-vaccinate-over-6-lakh-third-category-beneficiaries-in-15-days-101614018508132.html
22-02-2021||Noida||Four held for duping people by swapping ATM cards||Noida: Four men were nabbed on Monday for allegedly duping people by swapping their ATM cards and withdrawing money from their bank accounts. As many as 70 stolen cards were recovered from their possession, police said.The suspects were identified as Ranjeet Sahni (29), Jitendra Sahni (31), Arun Singh (42), all natives of Bihar and Prakash Chauhan (26), a native of Madhya Pradesh. According to police, the suspects would target ATM kiosks that did not have a security guard.“They specifically targeted senior citizens. The suspects would stand in queue and offer to help. While helping, they would swap the ATM card with a fake one and then get the card details from the person who they would tell that the machine isn’t working. Afterwards, the suspects would withdraw money from the person’s account and would flee in an auto-rickshaw they had purchased,” said Rajneesh Verma, assistant commissioner of police, Zone 1.The gang had been active for the past two and a half years, the ACP said, adding that they came on police radar after a complaint was filed with Sector 24 police by a 78-year-old man who had alleged fraudulent withdrawals from his account.“An amount of ₹20,000 was first withdrawn and then another transaction for ₹35,000 was done using the ATM card. The suspects used the money to purchase two mobile phones. We tracked the purchases and obtained photos of the suspects. They were then traced to an ATM in Sector 22 from where they were nabbed following tip-offs,” said Verma.Police officials said that the suspects would spend the money to buy gifts for their female friends. Apart from the 70 ATM cards, police have also recovered two mobile phones, ₹2,000 cash, six Aadhaar cards, five PAN cards, two driving licences and the auto-rickshaw.The gang members are not very educated, said police, adding that they had learnt the tricks from watching videos on social media.The suspects were produced before a magistrate and later sent to jail, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/four-held-for-duping-people-by-swapping-atm-cards-101614018328147.html
22-02-2021||Noida||Man wanted in kidnapping of teen held in Greater Noida||A 20-year-old man was arrested on Sunday night in connection with the kidnapping of a 13-year-old boy on February 13 from Dankaur.The boy was kidnapped from outside his home and released the next evening near a fuel station in Dankaur.“Fifteen teams followed this case. Yesterday, checking was going on in the area around the peripheral expressway. Two men on a motorcycle were asked to stop. Instead, they tried to flee and fired on the police team. One of the suspects was injured in the retaliatory firing, while the other managed to escape,” said additional deputy commissioner of police, zone 3, Vishal Pandey.The arrested suspect was identified by his single name as Intezaar, who is from Firozabad, and was taken to the district hospital for treatment. According to police, he and his paternal cousin were involved in the kidnapping. “The cousin’s father had been duped of ₹2 lakh and the family was in financial distress. The kidnapping was not pre-planned. They had abducted the boy with the intention of ransoming him and brought him to their house in the village. Their family, however, told them to let the boy go. This and the pressure of the police probe forced them to release him,” said Pandey.He said that a search was on for the second suspect in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/man-wanted-in-kidnapping-of-teen-held-in-greater-noida-101614018268645.html
22-02-2021||Noida||Warmer days ahead as mercury rises||Noida: Warmer days are expected in Noida and neighbouring areas. A weather analyst with the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said that the change of wind directions from the cold north-westerly to the slight warmer easterly and southerly component, and clear sky will lead to a four degrees Celsius rise in temperature. On Monday, the minimum and maximum temperature for Noida was recorded at 14.3 degrees Celsius (°C) and 28.5 °C respectively, a one degree higher than a day earlier. On Sunday, Noida recorded a max and min temperature of 13.4 degrees and 27.5°C.For NCR, the maximum and minimum was recorded at 28.9°C, fur degrees higher than the season’s average, and 11°C, the season’s average.“The mercury will rise leading to slight warmer days and the situation may remain so for a few days. The region is now already experiencing both minimum and maximum temperature rising above the season’s average,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre (IMD).Meanwhile, the air quality of Noida and Greater Noida begin to drop though still within ‘poor’ category. Ghaziabad’s air quality index (AQI) however, turned very-poor again after improving to “poor” category for a just one day.Noida’s air quality entered under ‘poor’ category on February 20 but is not slowly deteriorating..According to pollution monitoring agencies, the air quality may improve slightly. So far this month, Noida has seen only four days of ‘poor’ air, two days of ‘moderate’ air, while air quality levels have been largely oscillating between ‘very poor’ and ‘severe’.According to the CPCB, the air quality index (AQI) of Noida on Mondya, on a scale of 0 to 500, was 290 against 251 a day earlier. The AQI of Greater Noida deteriorated to 294 against 300 a day earlier. The air quality of Ghaziabad was 318 against 360 a day earlier.The AQI between 101 and 200 is considered ‘moderate’, between 201 and 300 is ‘poor’, between 301 and 400 is considered ‘very-poor’ and above 400 is considered ‘severe’.According to the System of air quality and weather forecasting and research (SAFAR), the air quality is likely to improve marginally.“Surface winds are low and west-south-westerly. Marginal improvement in ventilation index is forecasted for today and tomorrow. AQI is likely to marginally improve and stay at the lower end of the Very Poor to Poor category on 22nd to 23rd February. Very Poor AQI is forecasted for 24th and 25th February,” said the SAFAR statement on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/warmer-days-ahead-as-mercury-rises-101614018268079.html
22-02-2021||Noida||Chairman, manager of old age home booked for gang rape||Police on Sunday booked the chairperson and the manager of a Greater Noida home for senior citizens for the alleged gang-rape of a staff member last year.According to the complainant, the incident occurred on May 5, 2020. The chairman and a colleague had allegedly cornered her in a room of the home.“They raped me and the manager helped them keep the incident under wraps along with the help of another staff member,” said the woman in her complaint.She alleged that her earlier attempt at filing a complaint fell flat after a police officer refused to do so. She then approached the Surajpur district court.Based on orders of the court, a case of rape was registered at a Greater Noida police station against the four, one of whom is a woman.A senior police officer said that the police conducted an investigation soon after the woman approached them the first time. “There were certain discrepancies in the statements of the victim and her husband who also worked at the same establishment. The allegations were found to be inaccurate,” he said. “It seems that the real issue was regarding the payment of the wages.”However, a probe was re-initiated following the court order.“We have registered the case and will question all the people involved. The case will be reinvestigated thoroughly and necessary action will be taken against those responsible,” said additional deputy commissioner of police, zone 3, Vishal Pandey.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/chairman-manager-of-old-age-home-booked-for-gang-rape-101614018148671.html
22-02-2021||Noida||Gathering of crowds changes government, says Rakesh Tikait||Ghaziabad:Taking a dig at Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar’s remark that mere gathering of crowds “does not lead to revocation of laws”, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tiakit on Monday said that the “gathering of crowds changes government”. “You purchase crops at half the rates and say that farm laws are beneficial. The minister says that gathering of crowds doesn’t lead to change of laws. They (the government) should understand that gathering of crowds changes governments... Presently the youth here are asking to take back the three farm laws but so far they have not given a call to change the power. They (the government) should understand this and talk to our committee,” Tikait told a panchayat in Kharkhoda, Haryana. Tikait, who is spearheading the ongoing farmers’ protest against the Centre’s three new farm laws at the UP Gate in Ghaziabad, is doing a series of rallies in Haryana to garner support of farmers and also of various Khap Panchayats who hold social dominance. Tikait reiterated that the government should hold talks with the committee comprising members of farmers’ unions. The last time when the government representatives and the farm unions’ committee members met each other for discussions was January 22 and thereafter no talks could be held. “The government should know that they are nothing in front of farmers who can destroy their crops. They should not forget that these are our own tractors (which went to Delhi on the Republic Day) and not the ones roped in on rent...,” Tikait said. On Sunday, Union minister Tomar had told reporters in Gwalior that the government is ready to hold talks and also make amendments if need be and urged the agitating farm unions to tell the government which provisions in these new laws they find anti-farmers. “Considering the issue with sensitivity, the government has held 12 rounds of talks with the farmer unions. But decisions on the basis of talks could be taken when objections (over the new farm laws) are pointed out,” Tomar had said. “You flatly say revoke the laws...It doesn’t happen that crowd gathers, and the laws get revoked,” the minister had said. The BKU national spokesperson further said that the ongoing agitation is also of poor farmers who have two cattle and even the poor who get food from ration shops, besides the vendors who put up shops in weekly markets. “The protest is not against just three laws, as more such laws will come. They will go out of hands if we do not put brakes now. They have got a lot of power given to them by farmers and the common man. So, we have to ‘break their nose’ and after that a child will also be able to make them work. After this they will take back the new laws and also the laws which they wish to bring in,” Tikait added. He said that the farmer unions have spread the message to the farmers in West Bengal and Assam that their rice crop should be sold on minimum support price (MSP). The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of about 40 farmer unions, from the Singhu border also criticized the remarks made by the Union agriculture minister. “We would like to remind Shri Tomar and others in the government that the current protests are a consequence of deep unhappiness and anger that was allowed to build up in farmers’ minds by the government. Today, farmers are getting support from all sides, nationally and internationally. The protesters are not a crowd, but our annadata, thanks to whom we are all alive today, including people in the government,” SKM said in a press statement issued on Monday.Meanwhile, Chandra Mohan, secretary of UP unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party, criticized the remarks made by Tiakit. “The language used is not called for in a democratic set-up. However, this shows the frustration of these people and also that their ongoing agitation has failed. The farmers of the country stand with the Prime Minister,” Mohan said.Thousands of farmers since November last year are on a protest at various borders of Delhi, including the one at the UP Gate protest site. They have been demanding repeal of the three farm laws and a new law on MSP. The government during the last meeting had proposed that it was ready to hold the implementation of the three laws for a period of one and half years. The proposal was rejected by the farmers’ unions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/gathering-of-crowds-changes-government-says-rakesh-tikait-101614018148083.html
22-02-2021||Delhi||Court grants bail to man accused of raping US national after she refuses to pursue matter||The Delhi high court has granted bail to a man, a co-accused in the alleged gang-rape of a US national, after the woman said she does not want to pursue her complaint further, almost three years after the incident in August 2017.The main accused is already out on interim bail.Justice Anu Malhotra, on February 11, granted regular bail to Amit Balguhar, after the court noted that the woman no longer wished to provide her testimony or to have any further involvement in the matter.The woman, through the US Department of Justice, had informed the court in August 2020 that she does not want to have any further involvement in the matter and asked not to be contacted again by the Indian authorities.The woman has earlier complained that two men—Shamim and Balguhar -- had gang-raped her in Safdarjung Enclave on August 25, 2017. Balguhar, she alleged, was privy to the crime and helped Shamim to sexually assault her and then later destroy the evidence.The court, while granting bail to Balguhar, noted that the woman had not joined the proceedings through video conferencing and her statement was recorded on September 3, 2019.“The attempts for video conferencing for recording of the statement of the prosecutrix did not succeed for long and on September 3, 2019, her counsel placed on record an email received from her stating that she was not willing to come to India as she had been medically advised against travel and that it was not within her province to arrange the video conferencing process for recording of her testimony,” the court noted.Appearing for the accused, his counsels Akshai Malik and Khawar Saleem, contended that there was a delay of 24 days in the registration of the FIR. They also said the complainant was in a consensual relationship with the accused.The court said considering the totality of circumstances, the accused is entitled to bail. The main accused Shamim is also out on interim bail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/court-grants-bail-to-man-accused-of-raping-us-national-after-she-refuses-to-pursue-matter-101614017668668.html
22-02-2021||Delhi||Man arrested from UP for murder of 17-year-old girl in Begampur; she had rejected his proposal||Three days after a 17-year-old girl was bludgeoned to death with a hammer at her home in outer Delhi’s Begampur, allegedly by a man whose proposal she had recently turned down, the police on Monday said they have arrested the suspect from Hardoi in Uttar Pradesh. The police said multiple teams were conducting searches in Delhi-NCR and Uttar Pradesh to nab the suspect, identified as 26-year-old Laik Khan.The murder case had figured prominently on social media platforms all through Saturday since the girl and the alleged accused belonged to different religions. The police, however, have maintained that religion had nothing to do with the girl’s murder.Deputy commissioner of police (Rohini) Pramod Kumar Mishra said Khan was arrested on Monday morning from his home town in Hardoi while he was about to flee for another destination. “We are interrogating him to ascertain the exact motive and sequence of events leading to the girl’s murder,” said Mishra, adding that Khan worked in a car mats manufacturing factory in Bawana and knew the girl’s family for the past five years.On Friday evening, the police said, when the girl’s parents were away at work, Khan visited her house. He allegedly sent her brothers to the market to buy vegetables. When the brothers returned, they found the house locked from outside. They initially thought their sister had left with Khan after locking the house.“But when they tried calling her and heard her phone ringing from inside the house, they suspected something amiss and broke open the door,” a police officer, who did not want to be named, said.Inside, the brothers found the girl unconscious and injured. She was rushed to a nearby hospital where she was declared dead on arrival. A murder case was registered at the Begampur police station and investigation was taken up. Khan became the prime suspect as he was the last person seen with the girl and was missing after the crime. During the probe, the officer said, it was learnt that Khan was very close to the girl’s family and was a frequent visitor to their home. He had even lived with the family for two months when they had moved from Bawana to Begumpur. He would often help the family with their day-to-day affairs,” the officer said.Police said Khan was on good terms with the girl’s family until recently, when he started developing feelings for the teenager. Recently, he proposed to the girl, but she had turned him down, the DCP said, based on what the police had gleaned from one of her cousins.Investigators suspected that an argument ensued between the girl and Khan over her rejecting his proposal and that led to him beating her to death with a hammer. “We are interrogating Khan to get a clearer picture of what had led to the murder,” the officer added.Last week in Mangolpuri, the death of a 25-year-old man who was stabbed to death by a group of men took a communal turn after his affiliation with some Hindu outfit came to fore. Many political leaders visited the house of the deceased as Delhi Police increased security in the area and transferred the case to the crime branch. Seven persons have been arrested in that case so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/man-arrested-from-up-for-murder-of-17-year-old-girl-in-begampur-she-had-rejected-his-proposal-101614017549650.html
22-02-2021||Patna||JDU donates ₹1.11 lakh for Ayodhya Ram temple construction||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar led Janata Dal (United), the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) alliance partner, on Monday donated a cheque worth ₹1,11,111 for Ram mandir construction in Ayodhya. The cheques were handed over to Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) office-bearers Mohan Singh, Ramnavmi ji and Raman Pratap by JD(U) national president RCP Singh.BJP state president Dr Sanjay Jaiswal and state general secretary Devesh Kumar were present on the occasion.Speaking on the occasion, RSS leaders said that Lord Ram "belongs to all” and just to any particular political party.Also read: 'India committed to no-first-use policy under nuclear doctrine' - ShringlaIn 2018, the JD(U) made it clear that it was not in favour of the promulgation of an ordinance to facilitate the construction of Ram temple in Ayodhya, demand for which has been made by the Sangh Parivar and a section of the BJP.Singh, at that time, had said that the party will stick to its earlier stand on the issue in its earlier avatar as the Samata Party which was - the issue should either be solved by mutual consent between the affected communities or be decided by a court of law.Even before walking out of the NDA in 2013, the JD(U) had always insisted that abrogating Article 370, Ram temple in Ayodhya, and the Uniform Civil Code should be kept out of the coalition agenda.Although chief minister Nitish Kumar had maintained silence on the issue, incumbent water resources minister Sanjay Kumar Jha made a mention of the Ram temple bhoomi pujan in one of his tweets last year.“Sita and Ram reside in the hearts of every resident in Mithila,” Jha had posted. Mithila, a region in Bihar, is said to be the birthplace of Goddess Sita.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/jdu-donates-rs-1-11-lakh-for-ayodhya-ram-temple-construction-101614017013342.html
22-02-2021||Gurugram||State refuses prosecution sanction against four cops in school murder case||The Haryana government declined prosecution sanctions against four police officials, including an assistant commissioner of police, chargesheeted by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in the 2017 Gurugram school murder case. According to the government, the sanction for prosecution was declined after examination of the CBI report, statement of relevant witnesses and relied-upon relevant documents. On January 6, the CBI filed a supplementary chargesheet against four Gurugram police officials for falsely implicating a school bus conductor and for fabricating documents against him in the case. An investigation by the CBI had concluded that these four had allegedly fabricated false evidence with intent to procure the conviction of Ashok Kumar, a bus driver. Kumar was arrested on September 8, 2017, but was later acquitted by a special court on February 28, 2018. Rapping the state government and the state police, the special CBI court on February 2 had stated that “they are sleeping like a Kumbhakarna” instead of discharging their statutory duties, over the delay in granting prosecution sanction for four Gurugram police personnel in the school murder case. The court directed that the requisite action be taken within 10 days. On February 19, Rajeev Arora, the additional chief secretary to the government of Haryana, home department, passed an order in this regard concerning Birem Singh, then ACP, Narender Khatana, then station house officer of Bhondsi police station, Shamsher Singh, a sub-inspector who was the investigating officer for two days, and Subhash Chand, an ASI, the four officials named. The state government, however, declined the prosecution sanction on the grounds that the officials made an error in the investigation, but that there was no fault in their intent. “On examination of all the materials including FIR, investigation report of CBI, disclosure statements, statements of witnesses, recovery memos and other relevant materials, it is observed that merely oral statements have been relied upon and no medical documents have been placed on record regarding voluntarily causing hurt to Ashok Kumar to extort confession. Ashok Kumar was subjected to regular medical examination during the police custody and such medical documents are required to be relied upon and to be cited in the investigation report,” said a report filed in the court on Monday. Sushil Tekriwal, the counsel for the complainant, said they will challenge the order in the Punjab and Haryana high court. The state government further argued that other charges relate to inaccurate documentation, which cannot be punishable by criminal prosecution, unless there is criminal intent and proving such intent to falsely implicate any person. “There may be instances of not adopting the correct approach depending upon the circumstances of the case, but the intent of the investigation officer to conduct the investigation in the right perspective has to be seen. The intent and ultimate objective of both the agencies was to focus on investigation of the main offence of murder of seven-year-old and crack the crime,” read the government report. The state government also took a dig at the CBI for filing a chargesheet against police officials. “The charges sought to be made against the police officials are distinct and severable from the main case entrusted to the CBI. An act or omission or lack of efficiency of failure to attain the highest standard of investigation may or not, by itself, amount to or constitute an offence.” Deepam Raghav and Mayank Raghav, the counsels for the police officials, said the state government has refused to grant sanction for the prosecution of all four officials. The court adjourned the next hearing to March 19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/state-refuses-prosecution-sanction-against-four-cops-in-school-murder-case-101614017128009.html
22-02-2021||Gurugram||Congress holds protest march to oppose rising fuel prices, farm bills||The Congress party on Monday carried out a protest march called ‘Tiranga Yatra’ against the rising prices of petrol, diesel, gas cylinder and also against the three farm laws passed by the union government last year. Party workers and leaders gathered at the Old Jail Road crossing and marched up to Rajiv Chowk, shouting slogans against government policies. The protesters alleged that the present government has failed to control inflation and the rising fuel prices. “One has to recall the amount of protests carried out by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP ) when Congress was in power. Even a small rise in the fuel price would be used have been used by the opposition to hit out at the government. Now that the prices of these fuels are increasing exponentially, the ruling government seems to have no solution. If this continues, then the day is not far when people will have to return to the days of bullock carts,” said captain (retd) Ajay Singh Yadav, former minister and a senior Congress leader. Raman Malik, BJP spokesperson, when asked about the matter, said that slogans raised in Congress protest were against the spirit of democracy and against healthy discourse. “As far as fuel prices are concerned, a comparison should be done of fuel prices in BJP-run states and Congress-run states so that truth ces out. Fuel prices in Congress-ruled states are higher across the country,” said Malik. The Congress leaders also alleged that the present government by bringing in three farm laws was trying to push agriculture and farming into the hands of a few corporate organisations. The party also said that these laws will lead to hoarding, black marketing of agricultural produce and will ultimately harm both farmers and consumers in the long run. Harpal Singh Boora, in-charge, Indian National Congress, Gurugram, said that the BJP-led government is not taking any steps for the welfare of youth and women. It has also failed to curb inflation and to tackle unemployment. Boora also alleged that the present BJP government was implementing the agenda of corporate companies and that the Congress would oppose it.Raman Malik, spokesperson, BJP, when asked about the matter said that slogans raised in Congress protest were against the spirit of democracy and against healthy discourse. “As far as fuel prices are concerned, a comparison should be made of fuel prices in BJP-run and Congress-run states so that truth comes out. Fuel prices in Congress-ruled states are higher across the country,” said Malik.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/congress-holds-protest-march-to-oppose-rising-fuel-prices-farm-bills-101614016889769.html
22-02-2021||Gurugram||Schools for students in classes 3 to 5 to reopen on February 24||Schools across the state will reopen for students in classes 3 to 5 from February 24 — nearly 11 months after they were closed across the country amid Covid-19 outbreak in March last year. Online classes for students who wish to continue to with remote learning will also continue and they will neither be bound to attend physical classroom sessions nor will their names be struck off the school roll, as per the SOP(standard operating procedure) issued by the education department on Monday.In the directive shared with all district education officers on Monday, the directorate of education said that the state government had decided to reopen schools for students in classes 3 to 5, while taking cognisance of the importance of learning and classroom lessons for students. Both government and private schools will be allowed to conduct classes of three-and-a-half hour duration from 10am till 1.30pm for students in these classes, as per the directive. Students are also required to produce a parental consent letter for school visits as per the norms. In a departure from the guidelines that were in place for school reopening for senior classes, the SOP doesn’t mention the requirement of a medical clearance. Schools will, however, continue with thermal scanning and record the daily temperature of students. Schools across the country were closed in March last year amid the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic. Voluntary visits to schools in Haryana for doubt-clearing sessions were allowed from September, followed by regular classes from November 2 for students in classes 9 to 12. Schools were reopened for students in classes 6-8 on February 1.“At the entrance itself, we will check the temperature and see if students exhibit any visible Covid-19 symptoms or not. Their temperature will be recorded in an app. If anyone has fever or cold, they will not be allowed to enter the school,” said Shyam Raghav, principal of Government Senior Secondary School, Bhondsi. Raghav said that the requirement of a compulsory medical clearance had been waived off on view of the age of children. “We can’t expect children in younger grades to get the health clearance done. It will be a hassle for them. Teachers will be conducting necessary checks in school,” he said. Most private schools are expected to continue with online classes. Aparna Erry, principal, DAV Public School, Sector 14, said that the school would call students based on feedback from parents and was presently continuing with online classes for students in grades below 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/schools-for-students-in-classes-3-to-5-to-reopen-on-february-24-101614016828832.html
22-02-2021||Gurugram||MCG sets deadline to remove encroachments from Wazirabad sports complex site||A five-year-old proposal for constructing a sports complex in Wazirabad may finally see progress as the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) has set a two-week deadline for officials to remove all encroachments at the project site and barricade its boundaries. A decision in this regard was taken during a special review meeting held at the MCG’s Sector 34 office on Monday. At the meeting, the status of all MCG projects costing more than ₹5 crore was reviewed.MCG commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh, who attended the meeting through video conferencing, directed civic body officials to ensure that there is no encroachment on any of the designated project sites before allotting any work. “There are encroachments at the Wazirabad sports stadium project, and I have given officials a two-week deadline to remove them. Further, directions have been also given to demarcate its boundary wall and fast-track the project,” said Singh.Back in June 2016, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar had made the announcement for the construction of a sports stadium in Wazirabad. A year later, the MCG had procured 12 acres of land from the Haryana Sahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) on a 99-year lease for the project.Until May 2019, the MCG had plans to construct a ₹130-crore archery range and multi-purpose indoor sports complex. However, following a meeting between Yashpal Yadav, the former MCG commissioner, and V Umashankar, the former chief executive officer (CEO) of Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA), it was decided that a ₹20-crore recreational sports complex was more feasible along the lines of Azad Maidan and Shivaji Park in Mumbai.The complex was supposed to have a ground for football, a jogging-running track for athletes, a skating rink, indoor badminton and a basketball courts. However, this project too did not come to fruition.In August last year, the MCG decided to construct a ₹200-crore sports complex instead with facilities such as a swimming pool, shooting range, basketball court, kabaddi court, among other such sports. In addition, MCG had also decided to build a hostel for accommodating over 100 male and female athletes.Overall, 19 projects were reviewed in the meeting, which included the construction of multilevel car park at Kaman Sarai, Sadar Bazar, and the main post office; a cultural and art complex in Sector 53; an auditorium in Bal Bhavan; MCG’s office in Vyapar Sadan; 45 MLD capacity main pumping stations at Gurugram Metropolitan City Bus Limited(GMCBL) depot in Sector 10; roads and stormwater drains in Palam Vihar; and strengthening of existing infrastructure at Sushant Lok 1. MCG officials informed councillors and Mayor Madhu Azad, who was chairing the review meeting, that the pumping station project at the sector GMCBL bus depot are already complete while all the remaining projects are in progress.In the meeting, Azad said that all the development works should be expedited, and the works should be completed within the stipulated time period. “All these big projects should be viewed as achievements of the MCG and the residents of Gurugram should be given an opportunity to avail the same at the earliest. A report on completed projects has also been sought from MCG officials and they have been further directed to not compromise with the quality of work while they are expediting all the concerned projects,” said Azad.The mayor also directed the officials to install sign boards in the new areas taken over by the MCG.“For each of the major projects, negligence in development works will not be tolerated. Officers have been directed to ensure that whenever they come to the next review meeting, they submit the report with complete information for each project,” said Azad.During the meeting, Singh also directed officials to ensure utilities are removed well in advance before any construction commences and to make adequate security arrangements for all large projects. Along with this, instructions were also given to place boards related to the work on every site.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/mcg-sets-deadline-to-remove-encroachments-from-wazirabad-sports-complex-site-101614016827990.html
22-02-2021||Gurugram||Poor lighting main cause of accidents: Police||Following a spate of accidents on Friday and Saturday — in which four persons died on roads connecting to the Delhi-Jaipur highway within 24 hours — the police found that the lack of streetlights was leading to accidents. Two police teams visited 12 black spots and found that six did not have functional streetlights. Lack of proper lighting is a major problem on Dwarka Expressway, Farrukhnagar crossing, Pataudi crossing, Hero Honda Chowk, Sidhrawali crossing and Manesar. Motorcyclists and pedestrians are the worst affected, as most on these stretches and the lanes don’t have a footpath. Last week, over 25 accidents were reported from the six spots, which have already been identified as black spots by the district administration. The police said that deploying personnel and PCR vans at accident-prone spots have failed to help, as drivers fail to notice the vehicles, steep turns and potholes due to poor visibility during the early hours. KK Rao, the commissioner of police, said that they have formed two teams to check the spot and submit the report, following which the stakeholders will be informed to take prompt action. “We have been analysing accident spots and Bilaspur and Manesar are two of the most dangerous spots, where (a lack of) streetlights is a major concern,” he said. On Friday and Saturday, four people were killed due to speeding, lack of streetlights and poor condition of the roads.In one of the incidents on Friday night, a mother-son duo had hitched a ride on a tractor and was on the way, when the tractor sped over a speed breaker, allegedly due to poor visibility, and the woman was thrown off the vehicle and died of severe injuries. “The Farrukhnagar crossing is dangerous and more than 10 accidents have been reported in the last four days. The authorities should at least install a few streetlights for the safety of commuters,” said Harsh Kumar, a resident of Farrukhnagar, whose mother died in the incident. Lalit Yadav a resident of Panchgaon in Manesar, said that the crossing was unsafe after dark. He said that trucks speed on this stretch and due to non-operational streetlights, the motorists and pedestrians suffer the most. “My sister-in-law and I were returning home on Friday night from the market when a speeding tractor rammed us from behind. We fell and she was run over by the tractor and died on the spot. The driver took advantage of the dark and fled the spot,” he said. The police said that service roads on both sides have poor lighting during the night and the narrow potholed road compounds the issue. Rao said they would write to the highways authority, public works and other agencies, and hold a meeting this week for prompt solutions. “We have identified the spots where streetlights are required and can save lives,” he said. Sarika Panda Bhatt, a road safety expert, said that besides lack of infrastructure, including streetlights, road safety audits of accident-prone sites also revealed that the timings of streetlights are erratic. “Often, in several areas of the city, including a major road network, streetlights aren’t turned on until 8-9pm and in many areas, they are not functional. Similarly, they are turned off around 5am, even though it’s dark. A lot of accidents have taken place due to lack of streetlights in areas like Bilaspur and Manesar,” she said. The district administration and the Road Safety Authority (RTA) is also analysing the data to pinpoint reasons for the accidents and suggest solutions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/poor-lighting-main-cause-of-accidents-police-101614016769462.html
22-02-2021||Gurugram||Over 88% turnout recorded among health workers for Covid vaccine||The turnout for Covid-19 vaccine doses improved on Monday with at least 88.2% of the 4,001 targeted healthcare workers taking the shot at a mega vaccination drive. The sluggish pace of vaccination for front-line workers, however, continued with only 49.2% of the 1,500 getting their first jab. Officials said that they have been aiming to cover majority of health workers under second-dose drive before the third phase of vaccination begins next month. “Considering the high turnout, the vaccination target will be increased to cover more than 5,000 healthcare workers at 66 session sites on Tuesday. The plan is to inoculate the maximum healthcare workers with second dose so that third phase of vaccination targeting people of 50 years and plus can be easily conducted,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer. Monday reported the maximum turnout of 3,531 healthcare staff coming forward to take the jab at the 59 vaccination booths set up in different hospitals. This is the highest turn out in the last one week since the second dose drive started on February 15. Considering the fact, the vaccination drive will be conducted only three times a week – Monday, Tuesday and Thursday – the per day target is likely to be increased for both front-line and healthcare workers. The footfall of front-line workers remained low with only 738 of the 1,500 target turning up to take the jab. Till now, almost 14,000 out of 18,000 registered staff has taken the first dose. The lowest turnout was reported from panchayati raj institutions, where only 54 people of the 300 took the shot. Even in case revenue department, of the 100 people targeted for the day, only 24 got inoculated. About 375 employees out of 500 from the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG), 116 of the 500 from the police department, and 169 National Security Guard (NSG) personnel also took their first shot. “Inoculation of front-line workers will continue until further orders. Employees of revenue and panchayati raj institutions are extremely reluctant to take the jab. They need to be motivated,” said Yadav, adding that more than 1000 frontline workers have been targeted on Tuesday at least 14 vaccination sites. An additional 152 healthcare staff from ESIC Hospital, Manesar also took the shot on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/over-88-turnout-recorded-among-health-workers-for-covid-vaccine-101614016769979.html
22-02-2021||Gurugram||36 random samples sent for testing to identify new SARS CoV-2 variant||At least 36 random Covid-19 positive samples have been sent from Gurugram to the National Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, Delhi, in the last one month to detect the new strain of SARS-CoV-2 virus, which emerged in the United Kingdom late last year. The test results have not yet been shared with the district health department, according to the health officials who raised the issue in a meeting with Dr Usha Gupta, director, health services, Haryana, on Monday. “Test results of 36 samples sent till now have not been received from the government lab in Delhi. According to the government guidelines, 5% of the random samples positive for SARS CoV-2 has to be tested for genomic sequencing to identify the new variant of the Covid-19. Even if the results are negative, the health department has not yet been updated, “said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer. The genomic sequencing started in December last year after a new strain — currently called B.1.1.7 — emerged in the United Kingdom. International travellers from UK started to be tested, which included nearly 700 people from Gurugram who travelled after November 25 last year. Only a single case of a 22-year-old man with the new strain was reported from the city in the last week of December. Since then, the health department has been sending random positive samples by public or private laboratories to the identified regional genome sequencing laboratories. On Monday, the district reported 23 new cases, taking the active case count to 233. Identification of the new strain is critical to assess whether the mutation can influence the transmission and severity of Covid-19. Since the vaccination has been ongoing, variants could reverse the progress towards herd immunity. “Random samples are being sent weekly. In case any international traveller is tested Covid-19 positive, their samples are also being sent along with it,” said Dr Jai Prakash, district surveillance officer for Covid-19. “The test results are directly being submitted by the lab to National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) for further analysis and compilation but have not been reaching us.” Hepatitis and Vector-borne disease Gupta, who is also the state officer for National Vector Borne Disease Control Programme (NVBDCP), reviewed other ongoing health programmes, with a focus on Hepatitis B and C. “Screening camps will be held in jails, TB centres, de-addiction centres, among other places, to identify cases of Hepatitis B and C. Also, the health department will now give confirmation on swine flu cases for samples that will come from Faridabad, Jhajjar and Rewari,” said Dr Sudha Gupta, deputy civil surgeon and district surveillance officer for Hepatitis and NVBDCP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/36-random-samples-sent-for-testing-to-identify-new-sars-cov-2-variant-101614016768402.html
22-02-2021||Gurugram||City bus service extends reach in Faridabad with new route launch||The Gurugram Metropolitan City Bus Limited (GMCBL) launched a new route to Faridabad on Monday and plans to add 10 more buses for the Gurugram-Faridabad route, officials said on Monday. Anju Chaudhary, chief executive officer of GMCBL, said, “We are already running four buses till NIT Faridabad and on Monday, we started two more buses from NIT till Bata Chowk. These buses will be going from Gurugram and cater to the public within Faridabad. We are further thinking of adding 10 more buses to the fleet with an increase in the number of commuters.” The GMCBL on Monday, introduced Route 902, which will follow the route from NIT Bus Stand — Bata Metro Station — NIT Bus Stand (Mudrika) Via Hardware Chowk, Bata Metro Station, Hardware Chowk, Dabua Colony, Hanuman mandir and KL Mehta College. The bus service will start at 7.15am from NIT Bus Stand and the last bus would leave at 7.35pm. With the new bus route, the city bus service is now available on 24 routes with 153 buses. “These buses will ease public mobility between the two major cities and being CNG buses, they will help reduce pollution also. Our main aim is to strengthen the intercity public transport system in Faridabad,” said Chaudhary. On Republic Day, the GMCBL had launched five new routes and added 25 new vehicles to its existing fleet. Three of the routes launched were aimed at increasing the connectivity between the busy transit hubs in the heart of the city, while two were aimed at mass transit options to distant locations. Despite the new routes, the GMCBL is still behind on its declared objective of launching 200 CNG-operated, low-floor buses by March 2019, and the addition of another 300 in the following year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/city-bus-service-extends-reach-in-faridabad-with-new-route-launch-101614016768985.html
22-02-2021||Gurugram||Admin directs all agencies to take corrective measures to prevent accidents||In a district-level road safety meeting held on February 19, the district administration directed the agencies concerned to install streetlights in areas where they are currently lacking. Although officials did not provide specific details about the areas and the agencies concerned, they said that the matter has been taken into cognisance by the recently constituted Safer Streets for Gurugram (SSFG) — a partnership between road safety experts and the district administration — and will be tackled on a priority basis.The meeting was attended by officials from the road transport authority, Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG), National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), Public Works Department (PWD) and Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA). Deputy commissioner Yash Garg, who chaired the February 19 meeting, said, “We have reviewed available safety measures at all accident-prone spots in Gurugram. Authorities have been told to execute whatever engineering changes are needed at accident-prone locations in their jurisdiction, be it installation of streetlights or speed calming measures. Essentially, we are taking all steps necessary to prevent the rate of accidents that we are seeing.” Jitender Mittal, chief engineer (infra), GMDA, who is also overseeing the operations of the GMDA’s mobility division, confirmed the development. “We will work with SSFG to identify areas which need better lighting and we will take action. There will be a detailed safety audit of all stretches across the district and we will submit the data to the district administration for review. A second audit will be conducted after the gaps have been identified to see if they are effective.” Residents, meanwhile, said that the issue is not just about safety of motorists but also that of pedestrians and women. Pancheswar Singh, a resident of Kaliyawas in Farrukhnagar, said, “On the same stretch where the recent accidents have happened, women have earlier reported incidents of molestation and snatching as well. It is unsafe for anyone to commute after it gets dark.” A transportation planning expert associated with a Delhi institute, on the condition of anonymity, said, “To blame lack of lights for accidents is a bit simplistic. You can also solve the issue by increasing the number of reflectors on the motorable surfaces, for example, or simply redesigning the roads. If most of these accidents in the last week have happened at junctions, it indicates a deeper issue than just lack of streetlights.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/admin-directs-all-agencies-to-take-corrective-measures-to-prevent-accidents-101614016767887.html
22-02-2021||Gurugram||28-year-old man shot dead in Sector 9||A 28-year-old man was shot dead by at least two unidentified assailants in Feroz Gandhi colony of Sector 9 in Gurugram on Monday afternoon. According to the police, the assailants fired 18 bullets, of which 15 hit the man, killing him on the spot.The victim was identified as Manish, a resident of Basai village, who worked for a transport agency and collected money from drivers.KK Rao, the commissioner of police, said that the victim had left his house around 10.30am and visited his employer’s house in Feroz Gandhi Colony around noon. “He entered his house, took the keys to his SUV key and the moment he sat on the driving seat, masked persons shot him dead with a pistol,” he said.Preet Pal Sangwan, the assistant commissioner of police (crime), said that several people were present at the spot but no one has come forward to give their account. “We have asked more than 20 persons, but all of them have denied seeing any firing,” he said.Sangwan said that five crime teams from sectors 17, 10, 31 and 40, and Palam Vihar were formed on Monday to investigate the incident. “The family members are in shock as Manish had no personal enmity. They were not aware that he had parked his motorbike at the employer’s house and was going in his SUV,” he said.The police said that Manish had no criminal record, but his employer had several cases against him, due to which they suspect the assailants mistook him for the owner. “We are trying to ascertain the cause of the murder. The reason behind the murder will only be known after the investigation is complete,” Sangwan said.A team of dog squad and forensic experts visited the spot and collected samples. The body was sent for a post-mortem examination.Sangwan said they are scanning the CCTV footage from six cameras in the area to identify the suspects and if more people were involved. A case under sections 302 (murder) and 34 (common intentions) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at New Colony police station on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/28yearold-man-shot-dead-in-sector-9-101614016707880.html
22-02-2021||Other||FIR against BJP leader for violating Covid norms at wedding reception||PUNE The Pune police late on Monday registered a case against Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and former Kolhapur MP Dhananjay Mahadik and two others for violating the Covid-related norms at a wedding reception held on Sunday.According to the officials, a wedding reception of Mahadik’s son was held at Laxmi Lawns in Magarpatta, Hadapsar on Sunday evening, where over 1,000 people attended the ceremony, a violation of order which has capped number to 200.Balkrushna Kadam, senior police inspector, Hadapsar police station, said, “We have registered a case against Mahadik and two others including the owner and manager of the lawn under section 188 ( Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of Indian Penal Code (IPC).”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fir-against-bjp-leader-for-violating-covid-norms-at-marriage-function-101614016467933.html
22-02-2021||Pune||Wagholi residents write to Aditya Thackeray against garbage menace||The constant garbage burning issue in Wagholi has prompted frustrated citizens of the area to approach state minister Aditya Thackeray demanding action for putting an end to the menace. The Wagholi Housing Societies Association (WHSA) stated, “Show your responsibility towards a clean environment. Wagholi, a developing suburb in Pune is deprived of garbage management system since ages, only assurances given but no work.”WHSA director Sanjeev Kumar Patil said, “We have been suffering from garbage burning issue since a long time and none of the agencies have stepped forward to provide relief. Now we have approached for direct relief from the deadly garbage burning issue.”Taking cognisance of the garbage burning issue, the central pollution control board (CPCB) had asked the Maharashtra pollution control board (MPCB) to seriously look into the issue of chronic garbage and plastic burning in Wagholi in 2018.Members of the Wagholi housing societies association (WHSA) had complained to the central pollution control board alleging that the Pune metropolitan region development authority (PMRDA), local gram panchayat and even the Maharashtra pollution control board had turned a deaf ear to their pleas demanding an end to the garbage burning menace in the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/wagholi-residents-write-to-aditya-thackeray-against-garbage-menace-101614015207831.html
22-02-2021||Pune||MSRTC Pune division tightens Covid measures||Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao declared and issued orders on Sunday about several restrictions to be imposed in Pune district to stop the increasing spread of Covid-19, the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC), Pune division has taken stricter steps to stop the spread of the virus. Already, precautionary measures are being taken at ST stands, additionally now squads have been deployed to monitor the crowd in the MSRTC Pune division. “We are running all the schedules of ST buses across Maharashtra, there is no change in it. But at the same time, the safety of passengers at ST stands and inside the bus is also equally important. Already, safety precautions as per state government guidelines are being taken at ST stands with proper social distancing. Passengers without face masks are not allowed inside the bus. Each and every bus is sanitised before going on the route, additionally, we have made squads with the help of ST bus conductors and stand staff to monitor the crowd,” said Ramakant Gaikwad, MSRTC Pune divisional controller. “During the weekends, there is lot of rush across ST stands in the division, we try our best to maintain social distancing but as the number of passengers is high, sometimes it becomes difficult to monitor the crowd. These squads will be clearing the rush of passengers by guiding them to their required ST bus or help them in getting the bus information. There will be no such impact on ST bus operations due to the newly imposed restrictions, only for the buses coming from Vidarbha side they would be reduced as lockdown is imposed in some of the cities like Amravati,” he added. While passengers are worried about the safety and infection risk at the ST stands due to the increasing number of Covid cases in Pune, Santosh Jaybhay a regular ST bus passenger said, “I regularly travel from Pune to Solapur to my village and in the few months since the ST bus service has started there is no proper social distancing maintained at the ST stands. The premises need to be cleaned more often and strict action needs to be taken on passengers who are spitting, throwing garbage and making the stand premises dirty.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/msrtc-pune-division-tightens-covid-measures-101614015149581.html
22-02-2021||Pune||SPPU faces financial crunch, appeals alumni to donate||In a bid to help the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) financially, a system will be made in place to reach out to alumni students across the globe. Along with this, several other important decisions and discussions were held on Monday at the SPPU’s management council meeting. SPPU vice-chancellor Nitin Karmalkar along with the council members and other senior office bearers of the SPPU attended the meeting. The decreasing number of SPPU’s savings, decline in interest rates and to increase the income of SPPU by various means was the topic majorly discussed at the meeting. Also, the draft for the forthcoming SPPU budget for 2021-22 was discussed at length and sanctioned during the meeting. After several changes to be made in this budget draft, it will be presented in the last week of March. “There was ₹550 crore in the SPPU saving funds earlier, which has now reduced to ₹350 crore. Government grants are reducing, and decreased interest rates of the banks have affected the SPPU yearly budget. Also, the expenditure on faculty’s salaries have increased, so to create new sources of income was the discussion made in today’s meeting. In this, a proposal was made to get help from alumni students who are at various positions across the globe. For this, we are going to create bank accounts and other systems will be made in place,” said Rajesh Pande, SPPU management council member. “We are now going to focus on fewer expenses to be made in the budget draft and only necessary allotment of funds will be done. As the saving funds have drastically gone down we need to look for alternative incomes now, as we won’t be able to sustain for long with it,” added Pandey. SPPU vice-chancellor Nitin Karmalkar said, “In today’s meeting, an important decision to give sanction to forthcoming SPPU budget was taken, also there was a discussion on clearing the audit. We are also going to appeal to our alumni students to help SPPU financially, for which an official circular will soon be issued from us.” BOX During the SPPU management council meeting, the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) Pune division student volunteers protested inside the meeting hall for various demands. One of the major demands raised by ABVP was to return back the examination fees taken from students by colleges. Last year, in March 2020 due to the Covid-19 pandemic exams of all students except last year students were cancelled and everyone passed. However, the exam fees were taken from students, so demand was made to return back the fees to the students immediately. The SPPU examination department issued a circular to all affiliated colleges to submit their report about examination fees and after taking a review, a further decision will be taken.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sppu-faces-financial-crunch-appeals-alumni-to-donate-101614015148979.html
22-02-2021||Pune||Tender for Mula-Mutha river rejuvenation project to be floated this week||City mayor Murlidhar Mohol stated that the tender for the Mula-Mutha river rejuvenation project will be floated in the next two to three days, after receiving all the permissions from the Central government. On January 27th, 2021, union minister for road transport Nitin Gadkari held a review meeting for Pune city’s river rejuvenation project which is being funded by the Japan International Co-operation Agency (JICA). Gadkari instructed the PMC to float the tender by February end. He even instructed the Central government officials to give all necessary permission. PMC standing committee chairman Hemant Rasne said, “We have received almost all clearance from the Central government. Now, the PMC would float the tender in the next two to three days.” Maharashtra irrigation minister Jayant Patil, former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, mayor Mohol, standing committee chairman Rasne and municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar were present for the meeting with Gadkari. Mohol said, “As the cost of the previous tender was inflated, it got cancelled. The Jalshakti mantralaya gave permission to scrap the project. As the project cost was high it got scrapped earlier and took a long time. Now, I am not aware of the estimated cost but whatever excess amount that was approved by the JICA would need to be paid by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC).”BOXTimeline for the Mula-Mutha river rejuvenation project The JICA provided the funding for the project and got it approved on January 13, 2016. In the last five years, despite getting approval, the project was not kick-started for various reasons. Earlier, the central government took a long time to appoint a consultant for the project. Later, the PMC floated the tenders for the same and it received higher costs. Some of the central government officials tried to pressurise the PMC to accept inflated tenders but all parties remained firmed to scrap it. Again, the Central government took almost two years to scrap the inflated tender. Now, as all the permissions have been received, the PMC is in the process to float the tenders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/tender-for-mula-mutha-river-rejuvenation-project-to-be-floated-this-week-101614015148349.html
22-02-2021||Pune||No decision on holding board exams online yet, parents advise against||The Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE) is yet to take a call on whether board exams will be held online or not. Officials from the board noted that there is still time for the examination, and the final call will be taken as the exam dates approach closer. Dinkar Patil, chairman of the MSBSHSE said that there is still time to take a final call on the nature of the exams this year. “We still have two months, as the dates approach closer we will assess the situation and then take a call whether the examination should be held online or not. As of now, there is no such decision to conduct examinations online,” Patil said. While the decision is still pending, students and parents are not happy with the online examination. Sampada Waghmare, a student of class 12 said that giving an online examination will not be a good idea. “For multiple-choice questions, it is easier but for subjective testing, the online examination can be difficult. We might have to type the answers. Or else we will have to visit a centre for writing the examination. There is no clarity on this as of now. As a student, I am more comfortable writing offline. That is how we have practiced so far. Offline exams will be more suitable for us,” said Waghmare. Sharing similar views, Pragati Kulkarni, a parent of a class 10 student said that her son is more comfortable in an offline examination, but the fear of Covid continues. “Class 10 and Class 12 are important academic years for a child. It is different to learn online but if the examinations are also online, the challenges will be different. In less than two months, the child might not be very well prepared to attempt exams online,” said Kulkarni. Nishi Parkhe, a city-based teacher said that offline examination will be a better call as class 10 and Class 12 examinations are crucial for students. “Online examination will require an entirely different centre. Subjective answers will be required to either be sent as a PDF or typed. Typing for students is not a regular activity and so may consume more time for them to answer one question. Moreover, an online centre may not be available in rural areas. The pdf for subjective answers can be difficult to check. This we have experienced during our midterm examinations,” said Parkhe. She further added that for offline exams, with due safety measures, social distancing can be adopted. “Offline examination can be conducted in a safer way by adding more examination centres. More centres will ensure that fewer children are accommodated in one class thus ensuring strict invigilation and more safety,” said Parkhe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/no-decision-on-holding-board-exams-online-yet-parents-advise-against-101614015147744.html
22-02-2021||Pune||Pune applicant allotted Gadchiroli exam centre for health department recruitment exam||Students who have applied for various posts of the state health department are facing major issues regarding the recruitment examination to be held on February 28, Sunday. Students who applied and gave preferences for an examination centre in a nearby city have been allotted a centre far away in another district. Ashish Khadke, an applicant who received a faraway centre said, “I have applied for the post of pharmacy officer, I am from Pune so had given a preference of Pune and Mumbai for the exams, but I have been allotted the Gadchiroli college examination centre which is very far away for me to travel. Only yesterday, there have been restrictions imposed in Pune district and travelling so far in such Covid times is too risky for me. Even my parents are worried to send me to Gadchiroli for the test, so our demand is that the state government should immediately do something about it and give us nearby centres to appear for the exam.” For Agatrao Vagare, a resident of Satara district who gave a preference of Mumbai or Pune has been allotted the Nagpur centre to appear for the exam. A similar situation is being faced by hundreds of other students who have applied for the posts and are going to appear for the exam. “When I filled up the application form for several posts which were opened for recruitment in the state health department, I clearly mentioned in the online form for a Mumbai centre in the preference column. Despite giving this preference, when I got my hall ticket of the examination, the exam centre allotted to me was in Nagpur city. This is just unacceptable and complete mismanagement done by the state health department, in such tough times of Covid they are not considering the safety of applicants.” said Vagare. Maharashtra state health department recruitment process for various posts is currently going on like medical officer, pharmacist, community health officer, junior clerk, laboratory assistant, multipurpose health workers, telephone operators and many more. For these posts, lakhs of people have applied, and the written examination is going to be held on February 28 at several centres across the state. Rajendra Patil-Yadravkar, minister of state for the public health department said, “I will take more information on this issue and accordingly further steps will be taken by our department.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-applicant-allotted-gadchiroli-exam-centre-for-health-department-recruitment-exam-101614015088752.html
22-02-2021||Pune||Ahead of civic polls, corporators prioritise lane concretisation work||Despite the PMC municipal commissioner’s instructions to stop using funds on non-proprietary works, a lot of money is being spent on cement concretization in narrow lanes on the background of the upcoming civic polls. On the background of the Covid-19 pandemic, PMC chief Vikram Kumar has instructed all departments to prioritise essential works like water, drainage, health and road repair. Despite that, ward offices have floated tenders of concretisation in by lanes to spend the budget as well as to show development work in light of the upcoming civic polls. As per road department statistics, there are around ₹100 crore worth tenders floated to concrete the lanes in different ward offices. The ward office has the power to float tender up to ₹25 lakh at the ward level. There is no need to take permission from the main road department. Dr Kunal Khemnar, additional municipal commissioner said, “We will check tenders and allow permission to cement concertise work for the essential ones. Earlier, the PMC commissioner was given instruction to spend only 40 per cent of budget allocation on priority work. Now, they have increased the cap up to 60 per cent. But that doesn’t mean it is wise to spend the maximum ward level budget on lane concretization.” Every year, the PMC allots around ₹500 crore for roadwork. It includes road repairing and the construction of new roads. The share of the budget for road repair and maintenance is around ₹60 crore. The other funds are used for making bituminous and cement concretization (CC) of roads. PMC makes its budgetary provision based on visual inspection before drafting the annual budget. However, corporators propose cement concrete road work in the wards to utilize the ward development funds. The amount goes to around ₹100 crore. On the eve of civic polls, the amount increases and reaches ₹150 crore at ward level. On the other hand, the civic body’s main road department spends ₹200 crore every year on cement concrete road construction. It is regular work and has nothing to do with the election period. Vivek Velankar, civic activist said, “Local corporators are wasting money on concretization of lanes. Actually, the lanes are in good condition. On the other side, due to the lack of stormwater drain, there are chances of a flood-like situation in lanes. However, the corporators are in a hurry to spend the allocated budget money.” “It is one of the ways of corruption to spend money on non-priority works as most contractors have a direct connection with the corporators. Another thing, the PMC commissioner has not mentioned a list of priority works in detail. Therefore, ward offices are taking benefit of doubts and float tenders,” he added. In the city, there is a 2,064 km long road network. Of that, around 1,800 are totally developed. The width of roads varies from 7.5 meters to 60 meters. A maximum of 18-meter-wide roads has been developed in the city. The bituminous roads have a maximum share as compared to cement concrete roads. There is 400 km of cement concretised roads. The share of main roads is 200 km, and the remaining are secondary roads. There are 50 major roads in the city with a maximum of 60 meters in width.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/ahead-of-civic-polls-corporators-prioritise-lane-concretisation-work-101614015088248.html
22-02-2021||Pune||Footpath and drainage repair season begins ahead of polls||As the financial year is coming to end, the regional ward offices started floating maximum tenders for drainage and footpath repairing related works. In order to utilise the ward development fund, it is common practice in the civic body that elected members are forced to spend a maximum amount on drainage and footpath related works. For the last two weeks, almost everyday tenders are floated by the PMC for footpath repairing works and laying drainage lines. Each tender’s estimated cost is below Rs10 lakh. One of the officials on anonymity said, “It is an elected member’s ward development fund. We need to float the tenders as works are suggested by elected members. It’s their budget.” One of the ruling party’s office-bearers accepted on anonymity that ward office levels works are unnecessary and money is spent on the same work.“year, the same footpaths are getting renovated but as elected members are aggressive about it, we cannot do much about it,” he said. A senior official from PMC said, “In almost all the municipal corporations it is general practice to carry out drainage works. The maximum number of works is unnecessary. There is no mechanism to check whether the work carried out is really necessary.” Another elected member on anonymity said, “A few years ago, it was exposed in the Bhavani peth area that only manholes were erected and there were no pipes connected to it. It means the contractor only erected the manholes and pipes were not laid.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/footpath-and-drainage-repair-season-begins-ahead-of-polls-101614015087657.html
22-02-2021||Delhi||AAP, BJP trade charges over Chandni Chowk Hanuman temple||The war of words between the BJP and AAP over a makeshift Hanuman temple at Chandni Chowk continued Monday with each attacking the other over the PWD filing a police complaint in which it termed the structure an "obstacle" in executing a beautification project.Senior AAP leader Durgesh Pathak charged that the BJP exerted pressure through the LG office to get the Public Works Department (PWD) to lodge a police complaint against the structure, an allegation the BJP termed "hilarious".A prefabricated, steel-made structure was installed by unknown persons on central verge of Main Chandni Chowk on February 18.The structure has come up close to the spot where an old temple of the deity was demolished after court order to pave way for Chandni Chowk beautification project being carried out by PWD.Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor found Pathak's statement "hilarious" and reflective of his frustration."After getting exposed that Arvind Kejriwal government's PWD has written a letter to the Delhi Police against the re-established Mandir, it clearly stands established that Aam Aadmi Party right from the beginning did not want to see this Hanuman Mandir in Chandni Chowk," he said.Pathak, however, hit out at the BJP alleging the North Delhi Municipal Corporation (NDMC) ruled by the party first paved the way for demolition of old Hanuman temple and was now indulging in "dirty" politics over the new temple."The BJP through LG office, forced the PWD engineer to file the police complaint and now it's enacting drama over the whole issue and blaming the Delhi government," Pathak charged.The PWD in a complaint to Kotwali police station, asked for action on the prefabricated structure kept in Chandni Chowk."This structure is basically an obstacle in the theme of (the) project and placed without intimation and permission from project executing authorities. In this regard, it is requested to take necessary action at the earliest so that the project can be executed within the timeline," stated the complaint.Police had said that "legal action" in the matter was taken although no case was registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/aap-bjp-trade-charges-over-chandni-chowk-hanuman-temple-101614013933729.html
22-02-2021||Other||Renowned obstetrician Dr Leela Gokhale passes away at 103||PUNE Dr Leela Gokhale (103), a well know obstetrician, passed away at 6.45 am on Monday at her home on Fergusson College road.She is survived by her daughters Aneeta, Anupama and son Atul.She had studied medicine at Grant Medical College, Bombay (1941), MD OB-Gyn – Cama and Albless Hospital, Bombay (1945), and also held a higher diploma in the Russian language from Pune University in 1973.She was an honorary consultant at nine hospitals between 1947 and 1972.Dr Gokhale is also known for her three technical/scientific publications, two books (Anubhavache Bol and Mazi Goshta) and her research on the curative treatment of primary dysmenorrhea, and was a holder of “Sahitya Pradnya,” highest achievement for the Marathi language from Maharashtra Sahitya Parishad in 2000.“I call her my superwoman mother,” said daughter Aneeta Gokhale Benninger, executive director, professor, Sustainable Development Planning Centre for Development Studies and Activities.“She was versatile, talented, hardworking and a perfectionist. She was a great doctor who said that it is important to treat the patient and not just the disease,” she said.“She was industrious and her favourite hobbies were cooking, knitting and writing,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/renowned-obstetrician-dr-leela-gokhale-passes-away-at-103-101614013467528.html
22-02-2021||Mumbai||Cops watching those spreading lockdown rumours: Maha home minister||Mumbai, Feb 22 (PTI) The cyber wing of the police is keeping a watch to nab those spreading rumours that a coronavirus-induced lockdown has been imposed in Maharashtra again, state home minister Anil Deshmukh said on Monday."The @MahaCyber1 Branch is keeping a close eye on those who are spreading false rumours that lockdown has been reimposed in Maharashtra. Stringent action has been directed against the people concerned for attempting to disseminate false information without any official information," Deshmukh tweeted.There has been a surge in Covid-19 cases in some districts of the state recently and local-level action, like night curfew, has been initiated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cops-watching-those-spreading-lockdown-rumours-maha-home-minister-101614012836669.html
22-02-2021||Mumbai||Over 57k vaccinated on Monday, majority given Covishield: All you need to know about Covid situation in Maharashtra||As many as 57,367 people were administered the coronavirus vaccines in Maharashtra on Monday, taking the total tally of inoculations to 9,83,830, according to an official statement issued by the state government.While 36,182 people got their first dose, 21,185 were administered the second dose of the vaccines, the statement added. Among those who got the first dose, 10,947 were healthcare workers and 25,235 were frontline staff.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage A majority of the beneficiaries were given shots of the Covishield vaccine, the statement said. "As many as 55,860 people were administered Covishield vaccine, while 1,507 were given Covaxin," it said.Here is all you need to know about the Covid situation in Maharashtra:1. Maharashtra has seen an unprecedented rise in coronavirus infection cases in the past week. With 5,210 fresh cases on Monday, which was lower than Sunday's 6,971, the state's total tally reached 21,06,094.2. While the state recorded 18 deaths due to Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, its total death toll has mounted to 51,806. Mumbai, one of the infection hotspots in Maharashtra, recorded 761 fresh cases, taking the total tally to 319,889. No deaths were reported in the city on Monday and its death toll remained at 11,446.3. Addressing the grim situation in the state, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday had warned the people that if they do not follow Covid-19 appropriate behaviour, the state government could impose another lockdown.4. The Centre on Monday identified the state as reporting a higher weekly positivity rate than the national average and said that it needs to exercise special caution. Maharashtra's Amravati, Nagpur, Nashik, Akola and Yavatmal were among some areas identified by the Union health ministry as "areas of concern".5. One of the state's worst-affected districts Amravati was put under a week-long lockdown from 8pm on Monday. The lockdown will be in force till 8am on March 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/over-57k-vaccinated-on-monday-all-you-need-to-know-about-covid-in-maharashtra-101614011378128.html
22-02-2021||Other||Fight over shortage of food at engagement ceremony leads to attempted murder||PUNE Three persons were remanded to police custody by a local court for attempted murder during a fight over shortage of food at an engagement ceremony in Patil Estate slums of Khadki, Pune. The three arrested were identified as Wahida Shaikh (30), Shaukat Nabu Shaikh (28) and Nisar Pangu Khan (37), residents of Patil Estate slums. They were booked along with six others. One of the accused allegedly insulted one of the guests over shortage of food, according to the police. “Of the nine accused, three have been arrested and will in police custody till February 24. We have identified two of the remaining ones. They are all distant relatives of the complainant’s family and were attendants at the ceremony,” said sub inspector Sandeep Chavan of Khadki police station, who is investigating the case. According to the police, the accused, who were attending the engagement ceremony of their woman relative from their locality, started abusing a family from the neighbourhood when the food served at the ceremony to guests started running out. A complaint was lodged by Gauri Shaikh (22), one of the neighbours of the bride. She was with her relatives identified as Majid Mehboob Khan (55) and Shaukat Majid Khan (30), residents of Lohiyanagar in Gunj peth area of Pune. The fight turned violent and the residents of Patil Estate allegedly started yelling that they were the “bhais” of the area, according to the complainant. A case under Sections for rioting, 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 307 (attempted murder), 504 (insult with an intention of provoking breach of peace) of Indian Penal Code; Section 17(1)with135 of Maharashtra Police Act; Section 4(25) of Arms Act; and Section 7 of Criminal Law Amendment Act was registered at Khadki police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fight-over-shortage-of-food-at-engagement-ceremony-leads-to-attempted-murder-101614012867569.html
22-02-2021||Noida||Ahead of ‘Kisan Mahapanchayat’, AAP leader slams farm laws||Ghaziabad: Terming the Centre’s new farm laws a ‘death warrant’ for farmers, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Sanjay Singh on Monday said that the party will try to put pressure on the government for rollback of the three legislations during the proposed ‘Kisan Mahapanchayat’ in Meerut on February 28 which is to be addressed by Delhi chief minister and AAP national convener Arvind Kejriwal.Singh, who was in Ghaziabad to review the preparations ahead of the Mahapanchayat, also slammed the state budget rolled out by the Uttar Pradesh government.“They (the Centre) have made three new farm laws which are like a ‘death warrant’ for farmers. Like they put up barbed wires at the borders, farmers and people will also put the same during the upcoming panchayat elections in UP. The way farmers’ agitation is growing, the Bharatiya Janata Party must contest panchayat election on its symbol and people will teach them a lesson,” Singh said.The UP government on Monday in its first paperless budget for 2021-22 proposed no new taxes despite high deficit and promised to please-all by “empowering different sections” by “self-reliance, integrated and inclusive development” ahead of 2022 assembly elections in the state.“There is no farsightedness seen on part of the UP government in the budget related to education, healthcare and employment. The UP chief minister is not concerned with law and order, employment, education, healthcare, mid-day meal, and is roaming in Kerala, West Bengal and Andhra Pradesh. He should look at his state first,” Singh told reporters.He termed the budget “rhetoric”. “The budget is rhetoric. They have done nothing for four years. The Prime Minister says that income of farmers will be doubled. The prices of diesel have increased. How will the income be doubled?” he added.The BJP’s UP unit, however, rubbished claims made by Singh and said that the farmers stand with the Prime Minister and the budget of the UP government is aimed to promote all round development.“The budget will be a milestone considering the effects of pandemic situation. It proposed employment, roads, water and other facilities to people and even projected the state towards the $1 trillion economy. AAP has no base in UP. They are just trying to create instability in UP before the elections, but people show them mirror each time. So, their allegations should not be taken seriously,” said Chandra Mohan, spokesperson and secretary of BJP’s UP unit.The Kejriwal-led party is trying to make inroads into UP. However, performance of its candidates has not been very encouraging during past elections. In 2014 general elections, former AAP member Shazia Ilmi (now with the BJP) had lost deposit in Ghaziabad. In 2019 polls, AAP did not field any candidate from Ghaziabad but offered unconditional support to Samajwadi Party candidate. In 2017 local body polls, AAP candidate Dr Pragati Tyagi also lost deposit. In December last year, Kejriwal had said that the party shall contest the 2022 assembly elections in UP.(With budget inputs from HTC, Lucknow)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ahead-of-kisan-mahapanchayat-aap-leader-slams-farm-laws-101614012747492.html
22-02-2021||Delhi||More than 300,000 beneficiaries vaccinated against Covid-19 in Delhi||Over three lakh beneficiaries have received Covid-19 vaccine till date in Delhi since the start of the inoculation drive a month ago, with more than 27,000 people receiving shots on Monday, according to the official data.Of these, more than 1.35 lakh are healthcare workers and over 1.71 lakh frontline workers, as per the data.On Monday, 27,219 beneficiaries received shots across 306 centres, including 5,459 people who got their second dose, as the inoculation drive picked up pace, officials said. The overall turnout was about 88 percent.Eight minor cases of AEFI (adverse events following immunisation) were reported, they added.Till date, 1,35,034 healthcare workers have been vaccinated. A total of 1,71,079 frontline workers have also received jabs, as per the data shared by the officials.Frontline workers include police personnel, civil defence staff, sanitation workers, among others.The vaccination drive, started on January 16, has picked up pace in the last one week.Under the nationwide mega vaccination drive launched on January 16, a total of 4,319 (53 per cent) healthcare workers, against a target of 8,117, were administered the shots at 81 centres across the city on day one.As per doctors, the second dose is given to a beneficiary after a gap of 28 days.On February 13, a total of 13,768 beneficiaries received vaccine shots and second doses were administered to healthcare workers who had received the first jab 28 days ago.On the second scheduled day after the roll-out of the exercise on January 16, the figures had stood at 3,598 (44 per cent of the target). The sharp fall had come after one severe and 50 minor adverse effect cases were reported, on the opening day of the vaccination drive.The count on third schedule day was relatively much higher at 4,936 (48 per cent).The district-wise distribution of total eight AEFI cases on Monday was -- Central Delhi (1), East Delhi (0), New Delhi (1), Northwest Delhi (1), North East Delhi (1), North West Delhi (0), Shahdara (0), South Delhi (1), South East Delhi (0), South West Delhi (1) and West Delhi (2), according to the data.Delhi recorded 128 fresh Covid-19 cases and one new fatality on Monday, even as the positivity rate stood at 0.30 per cent, authorities said.With this the death toll from coronavirus infection has risen to 10,901 in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/more-than-300-000-beneficiaries-vaccinated-against-covid-19-in-delhi-101614011929161.html
22-02-2021||Bhopal||RT-PCR test compulsory for people travelling to Madhya Pradesh from Maharashtra||As the Covid-19 cases started rising in Madhya Pradesh again, the state government on Monday said RT-PCR test will be mandatory for entry of people from Maharashtra by road, said an officer of the state home department.The decision was taken during a high-level Covid review meeting held on Monday after a new wave of Covid-19 cases was reported from Indore with an increase of cases by almost 86 per cent in the past two weeks.Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan asked the district collectors of regions bordering Maharashtra to arrange for screening and tests at the borders.“The CM also asked the district officials to hold crises management meetings to decide on organising fairs on the occasion of Mahashivratri as a large number of people from Maharashtra come to different districts in Madhya Pradesh to attend these fairs,” said Rajesh Rajoura, additional chief secretary, home department.Also read: 'Mamata Banerjee’s white saree, slippers a façade' - MP minister Narottam MishraIndore, which had emerged as a Covid-19 hotspot in April and September in the country and touched the positivity rate to 12 to 13 per cent, saw a decline in the number of cases in the past 40 days. Ever since the Covid-19 outbreak, the lowest number of cases in a day i.e., 19, was reported on February 8 this year. But the city has seen a sudden spurt in cases in the past four days. On Sunday, 135 cases were reported in Indore, said a health official.The Covid-19 cases in state capital Bhopal are said to be stable with 50-70 cases being reported per day.Public health expert Amulya Nidhi said, “The number of patients is still the same but the health department reduced the number of tests to about 12,000 in a day from 1.20 lakh tests per day. The situation is still alarming. The state government reduced the number of tests to pat its own back for successfully containing the spread.”“The number of cases increased in Indore as more people go for the test,” he added.Health minister Dr Prabhuram Chaudhary said, “The state government showed concern over this and instructed health and district authorities to pay special attention to control the situation over there. The number of tests has not decreased. The tests are being conducted according to the number of people visiting the test centres.”As per the state health bulletin released by the health department on Sunday evening, the tally of Covid-19 patients in the state rose to 2,59,427. As many as 3,854 patients have died so far while 2,53,522 patients have recovered from the disease or have been discharged from hospitals across the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/rtpcr-test-compulsory-for-people-travelling-to-madhya-pradesh-from-maharashtra-101614012036827.html
22-02-2021||Other||Narrow escape for passengers as PMPML bus catches fire after accident with two-wheeler||PUNE At least 20-25 passengers travelling in a Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) had a narrow escape when the bus caught fire after an accident with a two-wheeler near Kharadi bypass.A 25-year-old man riding from the wrong side of diversion inside the bus rapid transit system (BRTS) along the Kharadi bypass was killed in a head-on collision with the bus on Monday.All the passengers in the bus were safely evacuated by driver Santosh Kisan Majire (28), with the help of conductor Vijay Sanesar, according to the PMPML officials.The deceased has been identified as Ajinkya Sunil Yewale (25), a resident of Bavdhan and a native of Songirwadi, Wai in Satara. The motorbike is registered in Satara.The deceased was working as a medical representative at a private company in Wagholi.“We are yet to ascertain where he (the deceased) was heading, but he was going in the direction of Vimanagar. He was living in Bavdhan and working in Wagholi. We are in the process of registering a case against the bus driver under the relevant sections. The passengers escaped unscathed,” said assistant police inspector Rahul Patil of Vimantal police station who is investigating the case.“The bus was a CNG vehicle from Kothrud depot and was running on the Warje-Wagholi route. The two-wheeler overtook one car and another bus that was heading towards Pune on the correct side of the road and then entered the wrong side of the diversion; therefore he was already riding in high speed. He rammed into the right front side of the bus and as the petrol tank of his bike was damaged, it spilled petrol on the bumper,” said SR Pasulkar, depot manager, accident department of PMPML head office.“The silencer in a CNG bus is located in the front and is always heated. Moreover, CNG catches fire when in close vicinity of petrol. Therefore, from my experience of 14 years, I suspect that the spillage of petrol from the bike fuel tank led to the combustion,” he said.“We have an official from the accident department who conducted a punchnama on the bus who might be able to identify the cause,” he said.A case under Sections 279, 427, and 304(a) of the Indian Penal Code along with 184, 119/177 of Motor Vehicle Act was in the process of getting registered at Vimantal police station against Majire.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/narrow-escape-for-passengers-as-pmpml-bus-catches-fire-after-accident-with-twowheeler-101614012147364.html
22-02-2021||Bangalore||Covid-19 protocols: Karnataka closes borders with Kerala again||With the Karnataka government reinstating stricter control of transit passengers from Kerala in view of increasing Covid-19 positive cases, people bound to Mangaluru and other parts of Dakshina Kannada from here for various purposes, including medical needs and studies, are in a fix again. Long queues of vehicles could be seen in the border areas since morning as Karnataka authorities sealed many roads, including national highways and restricted entry only for those with Covid-19 negative certificates. The Dakshina Kannada authorities sealed all borders from Monda, except four to cross over, sources said. According to Karnataka officials at the borders,those who wish to enter the state have to produce Covid-19 negative certificate through an RT-PCR test taken 72 hours prior to their cross over time. Health and police personnel are on duty at the four borders, viz.Talapady in Mangalore taluk, Saradka in Bantwal, Nettanige-Mudnuru in Puttur taluk and Jalsoor in Sullia, to verify and allow people's entry into Karnataka. Meanwhile, Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the issue would be brought to the notice of the Centre. "Karnataka's move closing the border roads and blocking vehicles is against the central government's guidelines that no state should impose any restriction on the inter-state travel," he said. Speaking at the Covid-19 review meeting at Thiruvananthapuram, he also said state DGP Loknath Behera had already brought the matter to the notice of his counterpart in Karnataka, who assured that vehicles carrying essential commodities would be exempted from the restrictions. The state government would continue to be in touch with the Karnataka authorities to resolve the issue completely, he added. The residents in and around Kasaragod, the northernmost district of Kerala, have been thronging Mangaluru in Karnataka for decades for treatment at the specialty hospitals there. While Mangaluru is just about 10 to 50 kms fro anywhere from Kasaragod, the nearest available facility is in Kannur, which is as far as 100 km. People in and around Kasaragod had struggled a lot during the initial days of the lockdown when authorities in Karnataka restricted movement of people into their territory. Strict guidelines on producing medical certificates to get an entry for critically ill-patients had also turned out to be a nightmare for follow-up treatments during those days. There were instances of patients dying as the authorities disallowed their entry, even for critical medical care. However, the intervention of the Supreme Court had facilitated permission to critically ill patients to cross over to Mangaluru for treatment. Now the plight of the poor, but critical patients from the district is pathetic as they need to undergo a ₹1,700 RT-PCR test to enable entry into Mangaluru for follow-up treatment, local people complained.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/covid19-protocols-karnataka-closes-borders-with-kerala-again-101614009961539.html
22-02-2021||Delhi||Maximum temperature in Delhi rises slightly, reaches 28.9 degress||Mercury rose slightly in the national capital on Monday with the maximum temperature settling at 28.9 degrees Celsius, according to the India Meteorological Department.In the morning, the minimum temperature was recorded at 11 degrees Celsius. It was 10 degrees Celsius on Sunday."The city recorded a high of 28.9 degrees Celsius, four notches above normal, today at Safdarjung Observatory. Palam Observatory registered 27.7 degrees Celsius," an IMD official said.The highest maximum temperature this month has been recorded at 30.4 degrees Celsius on February 10, he said.The weatherman has forecast mainly clear sky with mist and shallow fog on Tuesday morning.The minimum and maximum temperatures are likely to hover around 11 and 31 degrees Celsius respectively on Tuesday, the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/maximum-temperature-in-delhi-rises-slightly-reaches-28-9-degress-101614010142927.html
22-02-2021||Other||Lockdown rumours have Punekars in near-panic mode; Market Yard vendors report heavy purchases||PUNE The re-imposed night curfew, which began on Monday night from 11pm to 6 am, and the closure of schools and colleges, has brought back a sense of dread and worry among the general public.This was evident as Punekars turned out in huge numbers on Monday morning at Market Yard, the wholesale market for fruits, vegetables and grains.“Normally, Monday is not a rush day at Market Yard, but there was more public today and they were talking about a lockdown getting imposed again,” said Kapil Rege, a shopper.Arun Chandore, a vegetable vendor at Market Yard said, “More people are coming to buy vegetables, but they should understand that Market Yard comes under essential services and will continue to remain open even if a lockdown is imposed.”Fruit vendor Kiran Shingote said, “If people continue to follow safety norms then there is nothing to fear. Following norms is a must and nothing will shut down.”Sachin Kapse, a grain vendor at Market Yard, said, “People are placing grocery orders like they used to place during lockdown. We are telling them that the situation is not like the previous lockdown.”“Supply will not be affected due to the night curfew as our trucks and tempos have got permission for transport,” said Vilas Bhujbal, president, Market Yard Commission Agents.Other commercial centres in Pune also witnessed a heavy rush as many seemed keen on stockpiling essential goods.“A couple of days ago a video went viral on social media which made people panic a little. Lockdown talks are back on in Mandai as well,” said Arun Veer of the Pune flower traders association.The Federation of Traders Association of Pune has told traders to be aware of false rumours.“There is a little panic among customers as they are raising questions about lockdown again. We are telling them there is nothing to fear, but following precautionary measures are must and without masks there will be no entry in shops,” said Mahendra Pitaliya, secretary, Federation of Traders’ Association of Pune.“Five days ago we had cautioned all our traders to increase safety precautions and ensure strict implementation of masks for everybody. Business is anyways not at its peak, but if all follow norms then we will be able to run our shops,” added Pitaliya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lockdown-rumours-have-punekars-in-near-panic-mode-market-yard-vendors-report-heavy-purchases-101614009927137.html
22-02-2021||Other||Shaniwarwada continues to record lower footfall on weekends||PUNE Shaniwarwada, a popular tourist destination in the city, which reopened its doors on January 7 after the lockdown restrictions were eased, has reported a steep decline in footfall on weekends.A general footfall on weekends (pre-Covid times) used to be at least 5,000 or more per day. Now, the average footfall is around 2,000, according to officials.In the last weekend (February 20 and 21) the footfall was 2,934 and 3,761, respectively, as per information provided by the Archaeological Survey of India, incharge at Shaniwarwada.“After Saniwarwada reopened for public the footfall is poor, as compared to pre-Covid times,” said Ishwar Kawade, officer incharge of Shaniwarwada, from Archaeological Survey of India.“As the new restrictions are being imposed it might further affect the footfall. The place is frequently visited by college crowd, now as colleges are closed the crowd will be less,” said Kawade.“On Monday, 1,709 people visited Shaniwarwada till 5pm. The crowd is very moderate. People are also asking whether it will be closed again after the night curfew is imposed in the city,” added Kawade.The Pune administration has still not released any order on the closure of Archaeological sites for the public.“Usually more college students visit Saniwarwada. Today the number was less,” said Sanjay Kulkarni, who owns a shoe shop near Shaniwarwada.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/shaniwarwada-continues-to-record-lower-footfall-on-weekends-101614009268153.html
22-02-2021||Other||20 held for illegal LPG sale in Pimpri-Chinchwad; 381 cylinders, 14 tempos seized||PUNE The Pimpri-Chinchwad police arrested 20 people and registered four separate cases for the illegal trade of cooking gas (LPG) in Sangvi on February 20.The total seizure of 381 cylinders and 14 tempos along with other equipment is estimated to be worth ₹24.5 lakh, according to a statement issued by the social security squad.The arrested accused in the first case have been identified as Dilipkumar Sukram Bishnoi (22), Sunilkumar Bhagwanram Bishnoi (30), Manish Narpatramji Bhawal (20) and Dinesh Bhagirathram Bishnoi.Pramod Rajveer Thakur (40), Ramratan Gavandilal Chauhan (35) were arrested in the second case. While, Hotamsingh Yashpalsingh Thakur (23), Gaurishankar Yashpalsingh Thakur (19), Netrapal Padmasingh Thakur (27), Chatrapalsingh Kisansingh Thakur (31), Dhamendrasingh Mahendrasingh Singh (28), Sureshkumar Bhagwansingh Rao (31) were arrested in the third case.Shankarpal Arjunram Bishnoi (28), Rohit Satish Chaudhury (23), Dinesh Birisingh Thakur (32) Banwari Mohanram Javhar (22), Yogeshsingh Surendrasingh Singh (30), Mahesh Hanumanram Kalirana (19), Suraj Rajkishor Singh (20), Ajaysingh Narsingh Singh (30), Pappuram Karnaram Ishwarlal (38) and Sairam Manaram Khillare (25) were arrested in the fourth case.Senior police inspector Rangnath Unde of Sangvi police station said, “All the accused will be in police custody till tomorrow (Tuesday).”The raid was conducted based on the information passed on by Krishna Prakash, commissioner of Pimpri-Chinchwad police, to senior police inspector Vitthal Kubade of the social security squad.The first raid was conducted at Morya Park in the Pimple Gurav area of Sangvi where 165 cylinders and seven three-wheeler tempos were seized. The total seizure was worth ₹12,01,100.The second raid was held at Jambhhulkar Park in Sangvi where 119 gas cylinders and four tempos were seized. The total worth of the seizure was estimated to be worth ₹7,24,510.In the third raid at Krushnaraj Colony and Morya Park, Sangvi at least 63 cylinders and two tempos were seized. The total seizure was estimated to be worth ₹3,38,280.The last raid was conducted at the Gangurdenagar area of Pimple Gurav where 34 cylinders and one tempo was seized. The total worth of the seized was estimated to be ₹1,75,780.The four cases were registered under Sections 379 (punishment for theft), 285 (negligent conduct with respect to fire or combustible matter), 34 (common intention), 120(b) (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code along with Sections 3, 7 of Essential Commodities Act, and Section 5 of Explosive Substances Act at Sangvi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/20-held-for-illegal-lpg-sale-in-pimpri-chinchwad-381-cylinders-14-tempos-seized-101614009267004.html
22-02-2021||Other||688 new Covid-19 cases on Monday; one death in Pune district||PUNE Even as 688 new Covid-19 cases were reported on Monday in Pune district, only 41% of the registered beneficiaries had been vaccinated, as per the state health department. The total number of Covid-19 cases is now at 4,0,114, of which 3,83,157 have recovered, 8,083 is the death toll and 9,874 are currently active patients in home isolation or in hospitals undergoing treatment. One more death was reported from the district on Monday. Of the 688 new cases, Pune city reported 336 cases which took its progressive count to 2,04,758.Pune rural saw 145 new cases which took its progressive count to 96,262. PCMC crossed the one lakh mark (1,00,094 ) with 207 new cases on Monday. One death was reported from Pune rural which took the death toll there to 2,145.Pune city reported 4,564 deaths and PCMC reported 1,326 deaths due to the infection.Only 41% of beneficiaries vaccinated The district saw only 41% of its beneficiaries vaccinated on Monday, i.e., 3,649 of the 8,900 registered. Of the beneficiaries who got vaccinated on Monday, 1,397 healthcare workers (HCW) and 2,252 frontline workers got vaccinated with their first dose. Also 1,450 beneficiaries got vaccinated with their second dose. No adverse effect following vaccination was reported. Pune city saw 54% of its beneficiaries vaccinated, PCMC reported 335 vaccinations and Pune rural saw a 35% vaccination rate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/688-new-covid-19-cases-on-monday-one-death-in-pune-district-101614009147034.html
22-02-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand petroleum dealers body demands reduction of VAT on diesel||Jharkhand Petroleum Dealers Association (JPDA) on Monday demanded that the Hemant Soren government reduce the Value Added Tax (VAT) on diesel by at least four per cent to bring it at par with neighbouring states.JPDA president Ashok Singh and general secretary Sanjiv Rana said that the price of petroleum products in Jharkhand was higher than in neighbouring states due to the high VAT rate.They claimed that many petrol pumps in the state are losing business as long route vehicles are filling their tanks in neighbouring states as the price of diesel in Bengal is ₹2.50 less than in Jharkhand and in Uttar Pradesh, it is ₹5 cheaper.In Jharkhand VAT on diesel is higher than in West Bengal. "So we have demanded Jharkhand government to reduce VAT on diesel to 18 per cent from 22 per cent for bringing diesel price at par with neighbouring states", said Rana.Singh said that a delegation of the association would soon meet Chief Minister Hemant Soren to demand reduction of VAT on diesel by four per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhand-petroleum-dealers-body-demands-reduction-of-vat-on-diesel-101614008489320.html
22-02-2021||Other||Oxygen requirement of Covid-19 patients up to 64% in Jan, from 16% in Jul 2020||PUNE According to data from the Pune municipal corporation’s (PMC) iHeal app, the oxygen requirement of Covid-19 patients has been increasing, despite the number of cases falling in the city between October 2020 and January 2021. The data compiled by the app through information from various hospitals found that in July 2020, while 16.30% of Covid-19 patients required oxygen, this number went up to 64.30% in January 2021. The data has also revealed that the number of Covid-19 patients requiring ventilators, and those requiring no oxygen, has also gone down. PMC’s iHeal app which was specially designed to collect information from various hospitals regarding patients admitted and those who are critical. The app compiles information on the medicine requirement of these patients, gender-wise bifurcation and also the underlying comorbid conditions of the patients. A total of 64.30% of Covid-19 patients admitted to various city hospitals required oxygen in January 2021. While 14.40% of Covid-19 patients required ventilators as of July 2020, this number went down to 2.20% in January 2021. This report is based on patients admitted to hospitals from 25/7/2020 to 26/1/2021, and data of a total of 13,311 was studied. The average age of the patients was 53.69. Of these, 68% were male; 14.4% had diabetes and 16% had hypertension. Dr H K Sale, executive director at Noble hospitals, said, “Even in home isolation, there are patients who require oxygen. However, if we are talking about percentages, then surely patients who came to the hospital in October or thereafter, came at a stage when they needed oxygen or medical help. So the oxygen requirement percentage for admitted patients has gone up.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/oxygen-requirement-of-covid-19-patients-up-to-64-in-jan-from-16-in-jul-2020-101614008486972.html
22-02-2021||Mumbai||8 revenue dept staffers at Mantralaya contract Covid-19||At least eight employees attached to the Maharashtra governments revenue department and posted at the state secretariat here have tested positive for Covid- 19, an official said on Monday.The number of infected staffers may go up, he said.At least eight employees of the revenue department have tested positive for Covid-19. The number may go up, the official said.The building of Mantralaya, the administrative headquarters of the Maharashtra government, is located in south Mumbai.Since the last one week or so, Maharashtra has seen an upsurge in COVID-19 cases with Sunday recording 6,971 new infections, the highest single-day tally in nearly four months.Most of the new cases are being reported from Mumbai and some districts of Vidarbha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/eight-revenue-dept-staffers-at-mantralaya-contract-covid19-101614007694215.html
22-02-2021||City||Goa's municipalities to go to polls on March 20 with eyes on Panaji||The Goa State Election Commission has announced voting to elect new municipal bodies in Goa - eleven municipal councils and the Corporation of the city of Panaji, the state capital - will be held on March 20 with the results being declared two days later on March 22.The elections, which are not held on party lines, will nonetheless be a test of popularity for the local political strongmen in the various towns of Goa who will field their own sets of candidates to prove their popularity ahead of the next year’s general assembly elections.“Voting to eleven Municipal Councils, the Corporation of the City of Panaji, the by elections to village panchayats and zilla panchayats where there are vacancies will be held on March 20 between 8 am and 5 pm. The final hour of voting will be reserved for those who are Covid-19 positive and those under isolation,” State Election Commissioner Choka Ram Garg said.Also read: RS bypolls - BJP wins both seats from Gujarat, 1 of them held by Ahmed PatelThe elections will see nearly 3-lakh voters cast their votes in the various municipal councils. The focus, however, will be on the State capital Panaji which has seen a merger of the BJP and Congress camps after MLA Atanasio “Babush” Monserrate, who was elected on a Congress ticket, jumped ship along with ten others to the BJP. The party has now announced fielding a ‘joint’ panel comprising councillors from both erstwhile camps. But dissidence remains.“So the culture of promoting immediate kin while currently holding public office has crept into Panaji,” Utpal Parrikar, the son of former Union defence minister and four-time Goa chief minister Manohar Parrikar, tweeted.Parrikar was referring to Monserrate holding sway over the BJP state party leadership and announcing that his son Rohit Monserrate will be one among the candidates he was fielding in the elections.The elections will also be a test for Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant for whom the results of the Sankhali Municipal Council, which falls under the constituency he represents, will be crucial as well as for opposition leaders Digambar Kamat and Vijai Sardesai who will be eager to win the Margao Municipal Council.Meanwhile, the Bombay High Court at Goa, which is hearing a bunch of petitions challenging the reservation of wards in the various municipalities, is expected to pass its order on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/goas-municipalities-to-go-to-polls-on-march-20-with-eyes-on-panaji-101614008035552.html
22-02-2021||Delhi||Delhi logs 128 new Covid-19 cases; total recoveries over 626,000||Delhi on Monday registered 128 coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases and one more related death which pushed the overall tally and death toll to 638,028 and 10,901 respectively, according to the health department’s bulletin. As many as 157 patients recovered in the last 24 hours and the total recoveries climbed to more than 626,000. The cumulative recovery rate in Delhi has now gone up to 98.12 per cent.The fresh cases on Monday were a result of 42,242 tests conducted on Sunday- of which 31,234 were RT-PCR tests and the remaining 11,008 rapid antigen tests, the bulletin showed. The active cases stand at 1,041 and the positivity rate is only at 0.30 per cent. So far, 471 people continue to remain under home isolation. Monday’s tally is 11.7 per cent less than those of Sunday- when 145 fresh cases and two deaths were reported.Also Read| Metro, buses to run at current limited capacities for at least 2 more weeksDelhi Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal on Monday chaired a meeting of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) where he discussed the overall Covid-19 situation in the national capital. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, his deputy Manish Sisodia and other ministers of the Delhi government were a part of the meeting.🏥Delhi Health Bulletin - 22nd February 2021🏥#DelhiFightsCorona pic.twitter.com/mfpRq5Kic7Baijal said that there should be no lowering of guard against the virus, adding that aggressive campaigns are required in order to overcome the hesitation among people in getting vaccinated. He further advised the Delhi government on the enforcement of Covid-19 compliant behaviour and ordered for surveillance of super spreader events.Since the beginning of this year, Delhi has seen significant downfall in its daily cases. On two days, the cases stayed below the 100-mark. On February 17, only 94 cases were added which have been the lowest since April 30 last year. Ninety six cases were recorded on January 27. No deaths were recorded on two days of this month- February 9 and February 10- after a gap of more than 10 months since May 11, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-logs-128-new-covid-19-cases-total-recoveries-over-626000-101614006336205.html
22-02-2021||Kolkata||'Mamata Banerjee’s white saree, slippers a façade': MP minister Narottam Mishra||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Monday questioned Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s integrity and image for the first time in the run-up to the crucial assembly polls as the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) questioned her nephew and Trinamool Congress (TMC) Lok Sabha MP Abhishek Banerjee’s sister-in-law. The agency is all geared up to pay a visit to this wife in connection with the multi-crore coal scam.“The masses will scare her (Banerjee) now for her involvement in the coal scam. Everything is getting exposed. She used to put up a façade with her Hawaii slippers, white saree, plain living and high thinking. Everything is peeling off like the skins of an onion,” said Madhya Pradesh home minister Narottam Mishra who is touring the eastern state to boost the ongoing campaign. Bengal polls will be held in March-April.The political temperature in Bengal is on the rise since Sunday afternoon when the CBI sent a team to Abhishek Banerjee’s south Kolkata residence and left a notice seeking time to question his wife Rujira Banerjee nee Naroola as a witness under Section 160 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (Cr.PC). On Monday afternoon, five CBI officers questioned her sister, Menka Gambhir, for three hours in her apartment at a posh south Kolkata residential complex.Agency officials said on condition of anonymity that they are probing overseas bank transactions. The family of Rujira Banerjee is based in Thailand.Also read: Rahul Gandhi explains how 3 farm laws will hurt agriculture sectorMishra made the comments before the media while reacting to Mamata Banerjee’s speech at a cultural event held in Kolkata on the occasion of International Mother Language Day on Sunday.“Threats of jail sentence cannot scare us. We have stood before guns in the past. We won’t be scared of fighting rats. I will not surrender as long as I am alive. You cannot break our spine. A tiger cub is not scared of cats and rats,” Banerjee had said.“In a democracy, it is the people who decide who is a tiger and who is a rat. If their conscience is clear why are their associates on the run? Why don’t they come clean?” Mishra said on Monday.The BJP leader from MP was indirectly referring to the CBI naming Vinay Mishra, a businessman and general secretary of the youth front of the Trinamool Congress (TMC), of which Abhishek Banerjee is the president, as one of the prime suspects in the coal smuggling scam along with Anup Majhi alias Lala, a businessman whose offices have been raided and sealed. Both have been declared absconders by the CBI.BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari alleged in a tweet on Sunday that Gambhir "and related parties" were "favoured" by the government while placing orders for bicycles that are given free to school students. To counter the TMC's 'Duare Sarkar' (government at the doorstep) outreach programme, the BJP started a hashtag campaign, naming it 'Duare CBI' (CBI at the doorstep).It is alleged that illegally mined coal, worth several thousand crores of rupees, have been sold in the black market over several years by a racket operating in the western parts of West Bengal where the Eastern Coalfields Limited runs several mines. The sale proceeds were allegedly routed through numerous shell companies that the CBI, the Income Tax department and the Enforcement Directorate are probing.The TMC launched a counter-attack on the MP home minister and called him “communal” and “tainted.”No state or central leader of the BJP earlier attacked the Bengal chief minister’s integrity although they did not spare her nephew.While attending a media conclave in Kolkata last week Union home minister Amit Shah said, “I do not think Mamata Banerjee is an overhyped leader. She is a big leader and has been the chief minister twice. But she has failed and people have realized that. I do not nullify her political ideology.”TMC Lok Sabha member and party spokesperson Saugata Roy made a counter-attack on Mishra.“I condemn Mishra with all the vehemence in my command. He is a communal leader from MP. He engineered defections from the Congress. Nobody knows his name in Bengal. He is a tainted BJP leader,” said Roy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/mamata-banerjee-s-white-saree-slippers-a-fa-ade-mp-minister-narottam-mishra-101614005043348.html
22-02-2021||Other||Only five per cent or 2,895 of the 57,264 registered FLWs vaccinated in PMC||PUNE As compared with the Pimpri Chinchwad municipal corporation (PCMC) and Pune rural, Pune has recorded an abysmal rate of vaccination for frontline workers (FLWs) and healthcare workers (HCWs).The administration is now aiming to undertake confidence building measures to improve the numbers. Pune city has reported the least number of FLWs who have been vaccinated, from among the three local authorities, which include PCMC and Pune rural. As per data from the district health office, until February 21, only five per cent or 2,895 of the 57,264 registered FLWs have been vaccinated. In PCMC this number stands at 34% of the 12,000 beneficiaries, which is 4,048. Pune rural has recorded 71% of the 14,890 registered FLWs being vaccinated. While there are 100 departments that have registered over 57,000 FLWs in Pune city, the Pune municipal corporation (PMC) alone has 40,000 FLWs, of which only 4,000 have been vaccinated so far.In terms of health care workers (HCW) too, the city lags behind with only 54% of the registered 56,000 beneficiaries having been vaccinated. In PCMC, 67% of the 17, 636 beneficiaries have been vaccinated and 75% of the 32,815 beneficiaries have got the jab in rural Pune. The district’s average stands at 63% for HCWs and 21% for FLWs who have been vaccinated, of those that have registered. Despite having more session sites than PCMC (eight), Pune city (29) has not been able to vaccinate as much.A senior official from the PMC health department said, “We are now writing letters to all HODs within the PMC and also various other agencies who have registered FLWs, to encourage them to take up the vaccination. We have allowed walk-in vaccinations at our session sites, but most of the registered FLWs are unaware.”PMC has 42,000 registered FLWs of which most are from ward offices; 1,500 from the education department; and 1,700 from the security department.“Till now we have vaccinated just about 4,000 of our own employees,” the official said. The low turnout in vaccination could be because of lack of confidence among FLWs said divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao, on Sunday during a press meet. Rao said, “The vaccination percentage has been low in the city, especially among frontline workers and so we are creating awareness through daily video conferencing and also through media. Also, we have got complaints from private health care workers that many names are missing and there are technical problems with the CoWin app. We will start with the re-enrolment process soon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/only-five-per-cent-or-2-895-of-the-57-264-registered-flws-vaccinated-in-pmc-101614004706422.html
22-02-2021||Indore||Covid-19 cases surge in Indore, health official blames 'careless behaviour' of people||Indore’s nodal officer for Covid-19, Dr Amit Malakar, said on Monday that “casual and careless” behaviour of the people is behind the increase in the number of infections in the Madhya Pradesh city. “I have seen that people are not wearing masks and not using sanitiser,” news agency ANI quoted Dr Malakar as saying.He also said that seven people have lost their lives due to the disease in Indore in February. “The death rate is still less than 1.6 per cent. In Indore, we have reported 7 deaths in the month of February. We have sent around 100 positive samples from Indore to NCDC [National Centre for Disease Control], Delhi and NIV [National Institute of Virology], Pune to identify the strain,” he added.Also read | MP, Chattisgarh witness spike in daily cases of Covid-19Earlier on Saturday, the Union health ministry had said that five states, namely, Kerala, Maharashtra, Punjab, Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh have seen a spike in the number of daily new cases of Covid-19.“Since 13th Feb 2021, Madhya Pradesh is also witnessing a rise in number of daily new cases,” the ministry had said in a statement on Saturday. However, the government hasn’t mentioned Indore in its list of cities and districts that needed to exercise "special caution".On Sunday, Indore reported 135 new Covid-19 cases taking the city’s overall tally to 58,756. Also, Indore had 612 active cases, news agency PTI reported, citing a Madhya Pradesh state health official.Indore was one of India’s Covid-19 hotspots, contributing nearly 50 per cent of all cases reported in Madhya Pradesh in May last year. However, the situation started increasing and chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said a month later that the disease has been brought under control.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/indore-news/covid19-cases-surge-in-indore-health-official-blames-careless-behaviour-101614003129043.html
22-02-2021||Jaipur||Raje to attend BJP’s core committee meeting on Tuesday||Former Rajasthan chief minister Vasundhara Raje will attend the state BJP’s core committee meeting on Tuesday, party leaders said. Raje could not attend the first meeting of the committee in January, which led to speculations about her differences with the state leadership.Factionalism within Rajasthan BJP has become more evident recently with MLAs considered close to Raje writing to state party chief Satish Poonia, complaining of being ignored in the state assembly. Earlier, her supporters held a meeting in the name of a ‘chintan baithak’ in Kota city and pitched for her to be the chief ministerial candidate in the next assembly polls.Party sources said that in the national executive meeting, BJP national president JP Nadda asked leaders to set things right in the state, especially ahead of the by-polls.“The leadership is well aware of the political differences, sentiments of MLAs and party workers, and unwarranted developments that are affecting the party’s image,” a senior BJP leader familiar with the developments said on the condition of anonymity.Also read: India extends $100 mn line of credit for defence equipment to Mauritius“The core committee meeting will not only discuss the observers’ panels for the upcoming by-polls on four assembly constituencies but also the MLAs’ complaint of being neglected in the House and unwarranted statements by leaders that encourage factionalism.”Senior BJP MLA Rajendra Rathore said, “There is no factionalism in the BJP; we have only one leader, Narendra Modi.”On the MLAs’ complaint to Poonia, he said, “It’s the state party chief who can make any comments after looking into the issue. But what happened is not as per the culture of the BJP. I have no reservation in saying that the leader of opposition and I have always encouraged those who wish to speak in the assembly. We have even made arrangements for providing content to members on related subjects. I don’t know why this issue was raised.”Rathore said the letter written by the MLAs will be discussed at the core committee meeting. “I am surprised by the news. None of the MLAs raised the issue in the legislature party meeting, and around 80 per cent of the MLAs named in the news have spoken in one or other way,” he said.“We will speak to the MLAs and resolve the issue. Over 46 MLAs spoke in the assembly on the Governor’s speech.”The core committee meeting will be chaired by state party chief Poonia and will include members like Raje, Union ministers Gajendra Singh, Kailash Choudhary and Arjun Ram Meghwal, MP Om Mathur, leader of Opposition Gulab Chand Kataria, deputy LoP Rajendra Rathore, CP Joshi, Kanakmal Katara, national general secretary Bhupendra Yadav, secretary Alka Gujjar, state in-charge Arun Singh and co-in-charge Bharti Ben.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/raje-to-attend-bjp-s-core-committee-meeting-on-tuesday-101614003104327.html
22-02-2021||Jaipur||5 killed, 15 injured in road accident in Rajasthan's Churu district||Five people including three women were killed and 15 others injured after a pick-up jeep they were travelling in collided head-on with a truck in Rajasthan's Churu district, police said on Monday.The incident took place in Bhaleri area of the district on Sunday night, they said.The pick-up jeep was headed towards Sardarshahar from Haryana when it collided with the truck, the police said.The victims were going to the house of a relative who had passed away, they said.The deceased were identified as Kalawati (65), Monu (12), Bhateri (62), Ramnarayan (38) and Sunita (32). The bodies were handed over to the family members of the deceased after post-mortem, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/5-killed-15-injured-in-road-accident-in-rajasthan-s-churu-district-101614001415319.html
22-02-2021||Bangalore||Covid-19: No restrictions on inter-state travel, says Karnataka govt||The Karnataka government on Monday clarified that it had not imposed any restrictions on inter-state travel, but has mandated RT-PCR certificates not older than 72 hours for those arriving in the state from neighbouring Kerala and Maharashtra.Health Minister K Sudhakar, while stating this, also cautioned people against negligence towards observing protocol and of stricter steps if the number of cases increase and said marshals would be deployed to monitor weddings as they were taking place without following any norms or guidelines."We have not imposed any restrictions on passengers traveling from Kerala, Maharashtra or any other state to Karnataka.Let me clarify this, because other states may have got a wrong opinion....For inter-state travelers there is no restriction," Sudhakar said.Speaking to reporters here, he said Karnataka has made it mandatory for people arriving in the state to have a negative RT-PCR certificate that is not older than 72 hours.This measure was taken last week for those arriving by flights, buses, trains, personal transport from neighboring Maharashtra and Kerala, following the recent spike in Covid cases in those states.To a question on people staging protests at the Kerala borders demanding withdrawal of "restrictions", Sudhakar said no restrictions had been imposed, but checking negative test reports could have caused some inconvenience to travelers."According to Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner, there is movement of about 2-3 lakh people between both states every day.If test reports of such a large number of people has to be done, it definitely causes inconvenience, so we may not be able to do it 100 per cent, but we are trying random at least," he said.Sudhakar also said he would speak to the Health Ministers of Kerala and Maharashtra in a couple of days and request them to issue strict circulars to travelers in their states."Many people travelling from those states don't have information. We have issued a circular in our state. But if circulars are issued in those states also, it will benefit both," the minister said.He noted that events, fairs, marriages and agitations with large crowds were being held despite repeated appeals by the government, all of which were against the guidelines issued by the Covid technical advisory committee."Civic sense and responsibility is also important. If we don't understand it, in the days to come, if the cases increase, you (people) will be responsible for forcing the government to take strict measures.At a few places in Maharashtra there is lockdown...you decide if such a situation has to come in Karnataka," he said.The Minister said marshals would be deputed at weddings to ensure that not more than 500 people gather at the events, wear masks and maintain social distancing.Further, if five people in a place test positive, the area would be designated as a containment zone, he said, adding there is already a circular in this regard.Stating that more than 4.24 lakh health department employees and 1.20 lakh front line warriors have been administered the first dose of Covid vaccine,Sudhakar said the government was cleaning up registration data by eliminating duplicate entries."We have a target of 80 per cent and 90 per cent coverage for Health department staff and front line warriors respectively by the end of this month.All officials have been requested to get the dose." "Bengaluru is lagging in vaccination... instructions have been given to all districts to achieve 80 per cent target," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/covid19-no-restrictions-on-inter-state-travel-says-karnataka-govt-101614000837682.html
22-02-2021||Other||12 persons sentenced to life imprisonment in Hisar||A local court in Hisar, on Monday, sentenced life imprisonment to 12 persons for killing two persons during a dispute over encroachment on panchayat land in Hisar’s Barchhapar village 10 years ago. The court had held all accused guilty for the crime on February 11.Those sentenced are identified as Paras Ram, his son Krishan, Mala, Mohan, Bholu, Bajinder, Ganga Dutt, Kalam Singh, Devi Ram, Surender, all residents of Barchhapper village; Sonu, of Jind, and Jeevan, of Rohtak district. Two accused died during the hearing of the case, while one suspect was a juvenile.The case dates back to February 28, 2010, when complainant Ram Kesh lodged a complaint to police that two persons were killed and six were injured in a firing incident at Barchhapper village, around 25km from the district headquarters.Police had booked 15 accused under Sections 302 (murder), 307 (attempt to murder), 148 (rioting), and 149 (if an offence be committed by any member of an unlawful assembly) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the Arms Act.Mohinder Singh Nain, lawyer of the complainant, said Hisar additional district and sessions judge GS Wadhwa announced life sentence to 12 persons. He also slapped them under different Sections of the IPC and the Arms Act. According to a complaint, the accused wanted to encroach on a ‘shamilat’ (common common land). When this was opposed, they opened fire.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/12-persons-sentenced-to-life-imprisonment-in-hisar-101614001166390.html
22-02-2021||Pune||Bird flu scare leaves housing societies in Pune to seek net protection||Pune: Even though the city has not registered any unnatural death of birds in the last one week, many residential societies have installed bird protection nets to prevent entry of pigeons and other birds. The demand for bird nets has increased in the city since last 15 days, according to traders. “Though bird nets of various materials are available with us, many customers demand copper nets as it is stronger than nylon,” said Ganesh Jadhav, Alankar Hardware, Sadashiv peth. Although no avian flu virus has been detected in pigeons, residents do not want to take risk and are placing nets to get rid of the bird menace while ensuring no harm to them. “Whenever there are reports of bird flu cases in the country, people become extra cautious and put up nets as a preventive measure. Some customers are also going for double layer of net cover. However, there has been no rise in price of nets. We are keeping more varieties as residents visit our shop after checking options on the internet,” said Vishal Deshmukh, Deshmukh hardware, Raviwar peth. “While bird flu threat is looming since last one month, pigeons can be seen at every nook and corner of the city. The bird’s feathers can cause Histoplasmosis that affects lungs and other organs. Its dropping carries Salmonella bacteria that causes food poisoning, diarrhoea and fever. Its faeces could cause asthma and allergy issues. Though bird protection nets give a shabby look to the housing society, public health should be priority,” said Suhas Patwardhan, a resident of Success Towers, Panchwati, Pashan. Patwardhan is also chairman of Pune District Co-operative Housing Federation. “Many in our society used to feed pigeons. We told them how the bird could after our health. Now, we have covered our residential space with a copper net,” said Jiten Shah, resident of Balewadi High Street.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/bird-flu-scare-leaves-housing-societies-in-pune-to-seek-net-protection-101614000085604.html
22-02-2021||Lucknow||UP to set law university at Prayagraj, allocates ₹450cr for district courts||The Uttar Pradesh government in the 2021-2022 budget has decided to set up National Law University in Prayagraj while ₹450 crore has been allocated for buildings of courts in districts.An amount of ₹100 crore is proposed for construction of houses for judges of the High Court.A budget provision of ₹150 crore has been made for building construction of Lucknow Bench of Allahabad High Court and ₹450 crore for Allahabad High Court is made. ₹20 crore received from the sale of welfare stamps is being proposed for transfer to the trustee committee of Lawyers Welfare Fund.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-to-set-law-university-at-prayagraj-allocates-rs-450cr-for-district-courts-101613995380449.html
22-02-2021||Lucknow||UP govt make provision of ₹1,175 crores for metro rail projects||The Uttar Pradesh government has made a provision of ₹1,175 crores in the state budget presented in the assembly on Monday for different metro rail projects.There is a provision of ₹597 crore for the Kanpur metro rail project in the budget presented by Finance Minister Suresh Khanna.A target for starting the trial run of the first section between IIT Kanpur and Moti Jheel has been set from July 31 and the commercial run from November 30. Besides, there is a provision of ₹478 crore for the Agra metro rail project in the budget.The target for starting the trial run of the first phase of the project from Taj East gate to Jama Masjid has been set for July 31, while its commercial run from November 30. ₹100 crore have been earmarked for Varanasi, Gorakhpur and other metro rail projects in the budget.The government has also made a provision of ₹1,326 crore for construction of the Delhi- Ghaziabad-Meerut RRTS corridor in the budget.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-govt-make-provision-of-rs-1-175-crores-for-metro-rail-projects-101613998742047.html
22-02-2021||Bangalore||Bharath Bopanna: I want to explore films which create an impact and inspire people||Being a TV star for four years is not an easy task but what drives Bharath Bopanna to the sets everyday is the love and response he gets from his audiences. “When I heard the story, I knew it would break barriers as the subject was unlike what we had seen earlier. I was excited to be a part of the show as it wasn’t a routine story. Working in a TV serial, it gets monotonous after a certain time but the audinces loved the show and my character a lot and that motivated me,” says the actor who stars in Brahmagantu, a remake of the Hindi TV show Badho Bahu, and is looking forward to crossing 1000 episodes soon. Having been a part of two other Kannada serials and a Telugu one as well since he started acting in 2016, Bopanna forayed into films with Kannada film, Demo Piece, last year. “I am blessed with good opportunities and now I am greedy for good films (laughs). Demo Piece was challenging as a subject and also as I had to balance my film and TV schedule. The college-goers loved the film as they connected with the subject, which is about staying away from vices. Going forward, I want to explore films which create an impact and inspire people. I want to play roles that become memorable,” he shares. While Kannada TV content revolves around family oriented subjects, he divulges that audiences also appreciate new concepts. Though he doesn’t watch Hindi TV shows often, Bopanna admits to being a fan of Kasautii Zindagii Kay. “I enjoyed the original version as the drama was quite engaging. Kannada TV too has been improving content every year. But with the lockdown, the industry found it difficult to cope for the first 5 months. There were re-runs of my shows and so many texted saying it feels like the show started yesterday (laughs). Now, things have recovered and shooting for many projects are on in full swing,” he says, adding that OTT platforms have been a boon. “The medium has been a huge advantage for many filmmakers who couldn’t release their films in theatres due to Covid. Delays impacted the industry and the producers but having a new avenue to release movies, has been wonderful.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/bharath-bopanna-i-want-to-explore-films-which-create-an-impact-and-inspire-people-101613997986964.html
22-02-2021||Dehradun||Govt, other agencies hold crucial meeting to discuss lake formed after Uttarakhand floods||A crucial meeting was held on Monday to discuss the further course of action on the lake created after flash floods in Uttarakhand's Chamoli district.The meeting was chaired by Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla and attended by Indo-Tibetan Border Police Force (ITBP) chief SS Deswal and officials of the Uttarakhand government.In the 45-minute-long meeting, the officials decided that various agencies will observe the water level of the lake that has been created and if it increases, further course of action will be decided, news agency ANI reported quoting sources in the government. Bhalla promised continued help from central government agencies to Uttarakhand as and when needed by it. The flash flood in the Dhauliganga river on February 7, which was triggered by a glacier burst, swept away settlements along the way and destroyed a small hydel power plant. Dozens of people were trapped under the debris - some of them in the tunnels in Tapovan.Also Read| Uttarakhand flash flood: Death toll reaches 69; 135 still missingMany rescue agencies, including ITBP and National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), are looking for survivors and taking out the dead bodies. So far, the death toll due to the tragedy has reached 69.The authorities in Uttarakhand also got to know about an artificial lake which was found as a result of glacier burst. A team of DRDO and other scientists studied the lake to understand if there is any threat.On Saturday, the Indian Navy carried out a joint operation with the Indian Air Force (IAF) where divers were sent to measure the depth of the lake in Chamoli district. The operation took place at a height of 14,000 feet above the mean sea level.Also Watch| Navy divers, in IAF helicopter, measure glacial lake depth in Tapovan﻿The artificial lake is 400 metres long, 25 metres wide and 60 metres deep, as per the Central Water Commission (CWC) and was formed after sediments that the fatal flash floods brought down started blocking the mouth of a stream that joins the Rishiganga river, one of the many tributaries of Alaknanda river.Rescuers say that 135 people are still missing. Rescue operations are on in the Tapovan barrage area and tunnel and rescue workers have managed to reach up to a distance of 171 metres inside the tunnel with the NDRF adding that the excavation work went on from 11.50 pm to 2.15 am last night in order to de-water the tunnel.(With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/ukhand-floods-govt-other-agencies-hold-crucial-meeting-to-discuss-lake-formed-101613996276985.html
22-02-2021||Delhi||Metro, buses to run at current limited capacities for at least 2 more weeks||Public buses and metro trains in the national capital will run at their current limited capacities for at least two more weeks with the Delhi Disaster Management Authority on Monday deciding to maintain status quo on the number of passengers, sources said.The decision was taken as states like Maharashtra, Kerala, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh and Punjab are witnessing a surge in new Covid-19, according to sources."Delhi Metro trains and public buses will run at previously fixed limited capacities for now. It is vigilant wait and watch for another two weeks," they said.Last week, the Delhi transport department had sent a proposal to the DDMA to allow people to travel standing up in public buses.On Monday, Lt Governor Anil Baijal chaired a meeting of the DDMA, which was attended by Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, his deputy Manish Sisodia, Chief Secretary Vijay Dev and other officers.DTC and cluster buses are currently plying with full seating capacity in the national capital even as standing of passengers during travel is not allowed at present.In metro trains, commuters can sit on alternate seats, leaving a seat between them vacant. Also, standing riders have to maintain a stipulated distance between them, thus further reducing the carrying capacity of a coach.Delhi on Sunday recorded 145 fresh Covid-19 cases and two new fatalities, as the positivity rate dipped marginally to 0.23 per cent.The new fatalities pushed the death toll from the pandemic to 10,900 in the national capital.The Covid-19 positivity rate in Delhi on Saturday was 0.24 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/metro-buses-to-run-at-current-limited-capacities-for-at-least-2-more-weeks-101613996742721.html
22-02-2021||Chandigarh||AAP to hold 'Kisan Mahasammelan' in Punjab's Moga district on March 21||Punjab's main opposition party AAP on Monday said it will organise a 'Kisan Mahasammelan' in Moga district on March 21 in support of the ongoing farmers' agitation against the Centre's contentious agri laws.Party's national convenor and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal will be invited to attend the event, it said.Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at Delhi's border points for nearly three months to press for the repeal of the three agri laws enacted in September last year and a legal guarantee on the minimum support price (MSP)."The AAP has decided to hold a 'Kisan Maha Sammelan' at Bagha Purana in Moga on March 21 in order to further strengthen the ongoing farmers' agitation," party MP Bhagwant Mann said.He said farmers from across Punjab will be invited to participate in the event."We want Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal to take part in this 'mahasammelan'," he added.The Aam Aadmi Party has been vocal about its support for the farmers' agitation. Kejriwal is set to address a 'Kisan Mahapanchayat' in Uttar Pradesh's Meerut on February 28 in support of the protest.Mann, flanked by AAP's Punjab unit incharge Jarnail Singh, co-incharge Raghav Chadha and MLA Harpal Singh Cheema, said the Centre should withdraw the three farm laws and provide a legal guarantee on MSP.The government has said the new farm laws will benefit farmers by freeing them from the clutches of the middlemen and ushering in new technology in the sector.However, farmers say these legislations will remove the safety net of MSP and leave them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/aap-to-hold-kisan-mahasammelan-in-punjab-s-moga-district-on-march-21-101613996463512.html
22-02-2021||Bhopal||IISER Bhopal uses AI-supported cameras to ensure masking, social distancing||With schools and colleges reopening, the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER)-Bhopal has implemented a camera-based monitoring system to ensure that students follow social distancing and masking practices. The high definition cameras are attached to a microchip computer that uses artificial intelligence to assess crowds and alert with a pre-recorded message whenever it spots people not following the distancing or masking norms. As a result of the system, people are following the safety protocol with more caution, said the institute in a release on Monday. Also Read | Don’t lower guard against Covid, speed up vaccination drive: Delhi L-G BaijalThe researchers deployed the system at the institute in October last year and are planning to make the system open source along with a tutorial to help others install it. The system can replicate manual policing in crowded places. “We wanted a simple advisory system to warn students against breaching social distancing norms at selected locations. This device can be deployed at crowded public places to ensure that the basic safety rules are not violated ,” said Dr PB Sujit, associate professor at the department of electrical engineering and computer science at IISER, Bhopal. Wearing masks and maintaining social distance can significantly cut risk of contracting Covid-19, which mainly spreads through respiratory droplets expelled by infected individuals when they talk, scream, sneeze or cough. Others involved in the project were Dr Mitradip Bhattacharjee and Dr Santanu Talukdar, assistant professors from the same department, Dr Venkateshwar Rao, assistant professor in the department of chemical engineering, and student Kasi Viswanath.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/iiser-bhopal-uses-ai-supported-cameras-to-ensure-masking-social-distancing-101613995341313.html
22-02-2021||Mumbai||MP Mohan Delkar found dead in Mumbai hotel||Member of Parliament (MP) Mohan Sanjibhai Delkar was found dead in a south Mumbai hotel on Monday afternoon. Delkar was an independent MP and was serving his seventh term as one. A preliminary probe indicates that he died by suicide, police said. Delkar was found dead in a room in Hotel Sea Green, in the Marine Drive area of Mumbai. Police have also recovered a suicide note written in Gujarati from the room Delkar was staying in.Also Read | ‘Another lockdown unaffordable’: Maharashtra minister Tope urges people“A suicide note has been found. Investigation is on. Exact cause of death will be known after the autopsy is conducted,” said Mumbai Police spokesperson, DCP Chaitanya Siriprolu.Police sources said that he has named some people in the suicide note. However, the police have not shared details with the media, saying it is an ongoing investigation.It is not yet clear as to why the lawmaker had come to Mumbai.Delkar, 58, is survived by wife Kalaben Delkar and two children Abhinav and Divita. He represented the Dadra-Nagar Haveli Lok Sabha constituency. He had contested from Bharatiya Navshakti Party, which he had founded, and got elected. He was first elected in 1989.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mp-mohan-delkar-found-dead-in-mumbai-hotel-101613994861009.html
22-02-2021||Bhopal||'Commendable': MP Guv praises state govt for law against forced conversion||Madhya Pradesh Governor Anandiben Patel praised the BJP-led state government for bringing a law against forced conversion and for holding a special campaign to recover the missing girls in Madhya Pradesh.In her address at the start of the budget session of the Madhya Pradesh Legislative Assembly on Monday, the Governor said the state government brought the MP Freedom of Religion Ordinance 2020 against forced conversion and is also doing a good job in getting back missing girls.Patel said, “The state government was formed in the adverse condition during Covid-19 pandemic and the state treasury was also empty. But the state government did a commendable job to contain the spread.”Also read: Charles de Gaulle carrier to exercise with Vikramaditya in Indian Ocean in April“From improving health facilities to helping the 1.85 migrant labourers, the state government bore all the responsibilities effectively. ₹800 crore has been given to cooperative banks,” she added.The state government freed land worth ₹8,000 crore from the encroachment of the land mafia. The case has been registered against 384 land mafias. ₹700 crore have been provided to victims of chit-fund companies fraud, said Patel.Madhya Pradesh became the first state in the nation which is ready with a roadmap to make the state self-reliant, said the Governor.On the first day of the budget session, BJP MLA Girish Gautam was elected unopposed as the speaker of the MP Legislative Assembly.Earlier, Congress MLAs held a cycle rally to register their protest against the increase in fuel prices. However, only two MLAs - Arif Masood and Kunal Chaudhary - reached the Assembly riding cycles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/commendable-mp-guv-praises-state-govt-for-law-against-forced-conversion-101613994439559.html
22-02-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand flash flood: Death toll reaches 69; 135 still missing||Rescue and search agencies recovered one more body on Monday in Uttarakhand, taking the death toll to 69. Authorities said that 135 persons are still missing. The body was found in the Alaknanda river in Srinagar town of Pauri Garhwal district about 160km away from Tapovan. Praveen Alok, spokesperson state disaster response force (SDRF), said, “The body was recovered by SDRF search teams in Srinagar, who are scanning the Alaknanda river on foot and boats to recover the bodies of those missing in the disaster.” Also Read | Uttarakhand CM requests Union govt for glacier research centre in state“About 70 SDRF personnel are searching for bodies in the river from Reni village to Srinagar covering four districts of Chamoli, Rudraprayag, Tehri Garhwal and Pauri Garhwal. After recovering the bodies, their samples are being collected for DNA tests to ascertain their identification,” said Alok. He also informed that of the total bodies recovered, 34 have been identified. “Till now, 14 bodies have been recovered from the tunnel which is the focus of the rescue operation. The remaining bodies were recovered from various other places,” added Alok. The rescue workers have been able to clear muck up to a distance of about 164 metres in the Tapovan tunnel but are facing difficulties due to the continuous outflow of water from inside. They are using heavy pumps to drain out the water from the tunnel with the help of the NTPC experts. Of the total 204 initially missing in the disaster, 139 are from NTPC’s Tapovan power plant and 53 from the Rishi Ganga project that was also damaged in the disaster caused by a rockslide and the formation of a glacial lake in the mountainous terrain. About 12 villagers living in the vicinity are also missing. The disaster also washed away the lone bridge located near the Rishi Ganga hydel power project cutting off 12 villages and affecting 465 families.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-flash-flood-death-toll-reaches-69-135-still-missing-101613994081991.html
22-02-2021||Delhi||Don't lower guard against Covid, speed up vaccination drive: Delhi L-G Baijal||There should be no lowering of guard against COVID-19 and aggressive campaigning is needed to overcome the hesitation among people in getting vaccinated, Delhi Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal said on Monday.The Lt governor chaired a meeting of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority(DDMA) during the day.Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia and other ministers of the Delhi government were in attendance.Baijal also advised enforcement of Covid-compliant behaviour and asked for surveillance of super spreader events.He also directed that the ongoing vaccination drive be sped up, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/dont-lower-guard-against-covid-speed-up-vaccination-drive-delhi-l-g-baijal-101613992690713.html
22-02-2021||Other||PMPML to set up solar charging stations at 6 depots soon||PUNE As the Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) is in the process of increasing the number of electric buses to its fleet, the public transport body has decided to increase its charging stations too.PMPML will set up solar power charging stations for its e-buses at six of its depots in the Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad areas.The public transport body will be availing consultancy services from private agencies, and around 20 megawatts of electricity will be generated by these buses.“As we are adding more electric buses to our fleet, the electricity supply to charge these buses would be a major issue in future. So we have decided to use solar energy for charging the buses. Accordingly, we have selected six of our depots for installing solar panels on the rooftops,” said Rajendra Jagtap, PMPML chairman and managing director.Currently, there are 150 e-buses in PMPML‘s fleet. Till July 2021 additional 150 e-buses will be added and by year-end, there will be an addition of 350 e-buses.“Along with creating solar energy power, we will also be installing charging stations at these depots. We are going to start work on the same from next month and taking the help of private agencies,” he said.For its 650 electric buses, the daily requirement is about 80,000 units of electricity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmpml-to-set-up-solar-charging-stations-at-6-depots-soon-101613991800299.html
22-02-2021||Lucknow||BSP chief Mayawati says UP government's budget 'extremely disappointing'||BSP president and former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Mayawati Monday termed the state government's budget "extremely disappointing", saying it just has promises for people but nothing to address unemployment.The Adityanath-led BJP government presented a ₹5.5-lakh crore budget for 2021-22 in the Assembly with a target of making Uttar Pradesh self-reliant. With the Assembly election a year away, the budget includes new schemes worth ₹27,598 crore."The BJP government's budget presented in the UP assembly today, like the central government's budget, is extremely disappointing in the state, especially in terms of ending the cruelty of employment, and creating jobs. Like in the central government's budget, in the UP budget too, an attempt has been made to make promises and make people have beautiful dreams," Mayawati said in a tweet in Hindi.She alleged that the Adityanath government's record on fulfilling its promises to the 23 crore people of Uttar Pradesh has not been "satisfactory" despite the fact the both the state and the Centre have the BJP-ruled dispensations."This budget is extremely disappointing especially in terms of addressing the problems of the poor, weaker sections and farmers," she said in her second tweet. PTI SAB TIR TIR||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bsp-chief-mayawati-says-up-government-budget-extremely-disappointing-101613990624113.html
22-02-2021||Jaipur||Puducherry crisis: Gehlot says BJP destabilising govts to grab power unethically||Reacting to the fall of the Congress government in Puducherry, Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Monday blamed the BJP government for unethically grabbing power by destabilising Congress governments.The Congress government in the Union territory of Puducherry collapsed on Monday after the motion of confidence moved by chief minister V Narayanasamy in the Assembly was defeated. After a series of resignations from Congress, the ruling government was reduced to a strength of 12 against the opposition’s 14.In a series of tweets, Gehlot said, “What has happened in Puducherry is most unfortunate and yet another case of how the BJP is destabilising Congress governments to grab power through unethical means. First, they created problems in running the administration through the Lieutenant Governor and now this has happened.”Also read: Charles de Gaulle carrier to exercise with Vikramaditya in Indian Ocean in April“Luring the Congress MLAs has been their modus operandi in all Congress-ruled states. We saw this in Karnataka, MP and now in Puducherry. They tried it in Rajasthan but people of Rajasthan taught them a lesson,” he tweeted.In another tweet, he said, “What the BJP is doing is only undermining democracy in the country. The people are watching what tactics the BJP is adopting and the party will be taught a lesson by the electorates in the next elections in Puducherry.”BJP spokesperson Mukesh Pareek said Congress leaders have lost faith in their party leadership and because of which the Congress governments are destabilising. Levelling allegations on the BJP is out of frustration.Pareek said that CM Gehlot is aware that because of two power centres, their party is also divided into two - this problem can also arise in Rajasthan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/puducherry-crisis-gehlot-says-bjp-destabilising-govts-to-grab-power-unethically-101613990481134.html
22-02-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt launches month-long campaign for registration of construction workers||The Delhi government launched a month-long campaign on Monday for registration of construction workers in the city, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said here."The registration camps are being set up at 45 places in the national capital for construction workers. A door-step facility will also be available wherein the workers can call on 1076 and Labour department officials will visit their home at their convenience and get the registration done," he said at a press conference."There are approximately 10 lakh construction workers in Delhi. However, only around two lakh are registered as per our records. We have made a scheme for their benefit but they are not able to avail it as they have not registered," Sisodia added.The government will also run an awareness campaign at 262 labour chowks in Delhi to encourage construction workers to get their registration done.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-launches-month-long-campaign-for-registration-of-construction-workers-101613986201189.html
22-02-2021||Chandigarh||AAP to hold kisan mahasammelan at Baghapurana on March 21||The Aam Aadmi Party on Monday announced it will hold a kisan mahasammelan in Baghapurana town of Moga district on March 21 in support of the farmers’ agitation on Delhi’s borders against the Centre’s three farm laws. Punjab AAP chief Bhagwant Mann, who is also the Sangrur member of Parliament, made the announcement in Jalandhar after meeting party workers and candidates who successfully contested the February 14 civic body elections in the state. “The party will strengthen the agitation of farmers against the Narendra Modi government. It will give a clear message to the Centre that it should take back the three laws and give guarantee of minimum support price of crops to farmers,” Mann said. Mann said that AAP convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal will take part in the mahasammelan on March 21 besides the kisan mahapanchayat at Meerut in Uttar Pradesh on February 28. He claimed that Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh was toeing the BJP line. “He is the chief minister of the BJP, not the Congress. People don’t trust the Shiromani Akali Dal either as primarily it’s responsible for the new farm laws. Had former Union minister and Bathinda MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal raised her voice in the cabinet against the farm ordinances, they wouldn’t have come into effect,” Mann said. Delhi legislators and Punjab affairs in-charge Jarnail Singh and co-incharge Raghav Chadha besides Punjab leader of opposition Harpal Singh Cheema were among those present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/aap-to-hold-kisan-mahasammelan-at-baghapurana-on-march-21-101613988861221.html
22-02-2021||Chandigarh||Don’t want to lose any health worker to Covid: Punjab minister amid Covid surge||Punjab health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu on Monday once again appealed to all the healthcare workers in the state to get themselves vaccinated against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) as they have been on the frontline in the war against the outbreak. Sindhu added that the government did not want any health workers succumbing to the virus.Punjab has administered more than 136,000 vaccine doses till now and the Congress-led government had earlier extended the last date to administer first vaccine doses for health care workers from February 19 to February 25.“Matter of concern that cases are rising since 3-4 days. Have asked healthcare workers to get vaccinated as they’re on frontline. Don’t want to lose any other health worker to Covid. If cases rise anything is possible. We’ve to take precautions from our end,” Sindhu was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.The state health minister had warned on Sunday that those healthcare workers who don’t get the vaccine shot despite being given repeated opportunities will have to bear the cost of their treatment if they test positive for Covid-19. Such healthcare workers would also be barred to avail any quarantine facility or take isolation leaves, Sindhu added.Matter of concern that cases are rising since 3-4 days. Have asked healthcare workers to get vaccinated as they're on frontline. Don't want to lose any other health worker to COVID. If cases rise anything is possible. We've to take precautions from our end: Punjab Health Minister https://t.co/SYpWyUyf85 pic.twitter.com/tvaJB32yGiPunjab registered 348 new coronavirus disease cases and six more related deaths on Sunday which took the total caseload and death toll to 178,459 and 5,754 respectively, according to the health department’s bulletin. The state has witnessed a surge in its overall Covid-19 situation from the last few days with daily cases increasing in the range of 250 to 350. Due to this, the active cases have also gone up 3,019 from 2,000 three weeks back.The Shaheed Bhagat Singh (SBS) Nagar continues to be the worst hit district in Punjab followed by Ludhiana, Amritsar and Jalandhar. SBS Nagar recorded 63 cases on Sunday and the highest spike in the district was seen on February 19 when 101 cases were added.Also Read| 'If you skip vaccine now': Punjab minister's warning amid rising Covid-19 casesMeanwhile, more than 110 million beneficiaries have been administered doses across India so far, according to the Union health ministry’s update at 8am. The ministry on Monday urged all states and Union Territories (UTs) to speed up their administration of vaccines for healthcare and frontiline workers noting that a large number of them still remained to be covered.Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said that the number of days of vaccination per week should go up to a minimum of four days in order to speed up the vaccination process and also gear up to administer doses to those above the age of 50.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dont-want-to-lose-any-health-worker-to-covid-punjab-minister-amid-covid-surge-101613987839082.html
22-02-2021||Bangalore||Yatnal, Kashappanavar exploiting Panchamasali agitation: K’taka ministers||Senior ministers of the Karnataka government on Monday hit out at Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislator Basanagouda Ramanagouda Patil (Yatnal) and former legislator Vijayanand Kashappanavar for exploiting the ongoing Panchamasalis’ (a sub-sect of the Lingayat community) agitation for political gain.“The campaign is being used for selfish reasons by some people and this is something that we do not agree with,” CC Patil, a senior minister of the BS Yediyurappa-led BJP government, said on Monday.“Some people have the seer (Basava Jaya Mrutyunjaya Swami) under their grip and are misusing the forum,” he added.They also said that Kashappanavar has declared himself the national president of the sub-sect without consulting anyone. “He should have named himself the international president of the Panchamasali,” Patil said, mocking the title.Also Read | Yatnal sets Yediyurappa new timeframe for 2A reservation for PanchamasaliPatil stormed off the stage on Sunday after Yatnal said that the ministers from the community should resign if the chief minister does not cede to their demands.The statements come even as the influential seers of the Panchamasali, one of the largest sub-sects under the Lingayats, have intensified their agitation and asked that the reservation change be announced before March 4 or before the start of the budget session.Yatnal, a staunch critic of the chief minister, has repeatedly targeted Yediyurappa and his family after being left out of the state cabinet.He has levelled charges of corruption, favouritism and even inability on the part of Yediyurappa and his family members that has added to the challenges of the dissent-hit government and its remaining two-year tenure.Yediyurappa has remained silent on the issue ever since he issued an order, directing the state’s backward classes commission to conduct a review of the Panchamasalis’ demands.Several dominant and politically influential communities in the state, including Vokkaligas, Valmiki and Kurubas among others, have also sought a change in reservation category or increase in allocations.Minister Murugesh Nirani said that there is a procedure to initiate such a request and the government required some time to act on the same.He also said that there are efforts to include all sub-sects within the Lingayat community into the 2A category and not just the Panchamasalis.Nirani said that Lingayats make up around 800,000 of the total 65 million population of the state and there are several smaller sects who have not been represented at all.There are at least 36 pending applications before the state’s backward classes commission, and change of reservation category, according to people directly involved in the process, takes time.“The good intent with which the campaign started did not end on the same note,” Patil said.Meanwhile the seers and their followers have been camping in Bengaluru and have demanded that the announcement be made at the earliest or that they will initiate a fast.“The main reason for the delay is that the chief minister did not take us seriously from the beginning,” Basava Jaya Mrutyunjaya Swami told reporters in Bengaluru.He said that the government should provide an exact timeframe of the process and the community leaders would take a call based on these assurances.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/yatnal-kashappanavar-exploiting-panchamasali-agitation-k-taka-ministers-101613988081080.html
22-02-2021||Mumbai||36 per cent rise in active Covid-19 cases in Mumbai since February 8: BMC||Amid a spike in coronavirus infection in parts of Maharashtra, Mumbai has witnessed 36.38 per cent rise in the active Covid-19 cases since February 8, as per the city civic body.Careless attitude of citizens, allowing the general public to travel in local trains and opening of various other commercial activities were among reasons behind the current surge in Covid-19 cases here, civic officials said.The country's financial capital reported 5,335 active Covid-19 cases on February 8, and the number went up to 7,276 on Sunday, according to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation's (BMC) data.Notably, on February 8, the city had recorded its lowest average growth rate of Covid-19 cases at 0.12 per cent and the highest average doubling rate of 574 days, as per the statistics.At present, Mumbai's average growth rate of Covid-19 cases is 0.20 per cent and the average doubling rate is 346 days, according to the data.Though the daily Covid-19 cases have been rising in the city, the number of fatalities remained low, around three to five every day, as per the data.According to BMC officials, the surge in daily cases started in the second week of February.On Sunday, Mumbai reported over 900 Covid-19 cases, as compared to less than 500 daily cases in the first week of February.Civic officials said there are various reasons for the rise in cases, like careless attitude of people towards Covid-19 protocols, allowing the general public to travel in local trains, opening of malls, offices, hotels and restaurants.BMC's Additional Municipal Commissioner Suresh Kakani said as restrictions were eased, crowds were witnessed at various marriage functions, other social events, and in malls, restaurants, pubs and clubs.The number of passengers in local trains also increased from eight lakh (in January-end) to 22 lakh (after all members of the public were allowed in February), he said."Many people are behaving as if the Covid-19 threat is not there. They are not following protocols at public places," Kakani said.According to the BMC, it has already increased daily Covid-19 tests from around 15,000 earlier this month to over 22,000 now."Among the positive cases, the number of asymptomatic persons is more," Kakani said.The civic body is also trying to find out if the virus has mutated.Kakani said they have already sent 90 samples to the Pune-based National Institute of Virology to check for any mutation of the virus.It takes 10 to 15 days to get the report from the institute, he said.Since last week, the BMC has intensified action against those found without masks in public places, and started a crackdown on establishments like marriage halls, hotels and restaurants which are found violating the Covid-19 norms.The civic body has also filed police complaints against some establishments in the last few days, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/36-per-cent-rise-in-active-covid-19-cases-in-mumbai-since-february-8-bmc-101613987499116.html
22-02-2021||Chandigarh||MC elections to be held on party symbol in Himachal||Amid growing demand, the Jai Ram Thakur-led BJP government in Himachal Pradesh will hold the municipal corporation elections in Mandi, Palampur, Solan and Dharamshala next month on party symbols. The state urban development ministry will move a proposal to amend the rules for the corporation elections. “We will move the proposal and now it depends on the parties,” state urban development minister Suresh Bhardwaj, who also holds the law portfolio, said. The government’s proposal to hold elections on party symbols comes a fortnight after the elections to panchayats, zila parishads, and block samitis. Though these elections were not held on the party symbol, the ruling BJP claimed victory as candidates it supported won, while Congress-backed nominees could get a majority in only two zila parishads of Shimla and Kullu. The opposition Congress accused the ruling party of misusing official machinery during the elections and charged it with horse trading after the zila parishad poll. The BJP top leadership, including JP Nadda, met office-bearers in Dharamshala during a three-day conclave to ponder over the strategy for the municipal corporation and 2022 assembly elections. A majority of attendees were for fighting the MC elections on the party symbol. Move will curb horse trading: Former Shimla mayor Former chief minister Prem Kumar Dhumal had experimented with holding MC elections in Shimla on the party symbol in 2012. The posts of mayor and deputy mayor were held on the party symbol. The Communist Party of India (Marxist) captured both posts with Sanjay Chauhan getting elected as the mayor and Tikender Panwar as his deputy. “We have always favoured elections to the MC on the party symbol. In Kerala too, the civic body elections are held on the party symbol,” says Chauhan. “ At least this will help curb horse trading after the elections,” he said. Kimi Sood, the councillor from ward number 17, who represents Bemore in Shimla, says she too favoured elections on the party symbol. “The councillors are associated with ideologies. These elections should certainly be held on party lines; it will rather strengthen them,” she said. MC elections to be announced during assembly session Congress leaders have been demanding direct elections for the posts of mayor and deputy mayor. “The government should bring amendments that enable direct elections to the posts of mayor and deputy mayor. Direct elections will stop horse trading. It will also permit the elected heads to work for the welfare without any undue pressure about their tenure,” says Gokul Butail, the AICC national joint secretary. The elections to the four municipal corporation is likely to be announced during the budget session of the Himachal Pradesh assembly that begins on February 26. The state election commission is already preparing the electoral rolls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mc-elections-to-be-held-on-party-symbol-in-himachal-101613987180632.html
22-02-2021||Lucknow||₹200 cr for Ayodhya and Varanasi, cheaper loans for farmers in UP Budget | Key points||Uttar Pradesh finance minister Suresh Kumar Khanna on Monday presented a ₹5,50,270.78 crore budget for 2021-22 in the assembly to make the state ‘atmanirbhar' or self-reliant. The budget included new schemes of ₹27,598.40 crore, Khanna said while presenting the state’s first paperless budget.Chief minister Adityanath congratulated the finance minister and the people of the state after the presentation of the budget. “Focus on electricity, water, road and the size of the budget has been increased. The budget for the future of the exploited and deprived has also been enhanced. This budget is full of democratic spirit,” Adityanath said.Here are some major announcements made in the UP budget:1. With the purpose of increasing tourism in the state, the government allocated ₹100 crore each for the development of tourism-related facilities and beautification of Ayodhya and Varanasi.Read more: CM Yogi directs officials to begin recruitment for over 50,000 vacant posts2. ₹400 crore was allotted for the Ganga Expressway.3. The government announced the establishment of an electronic city near Jewar Airport and the setting up of defence electronics manufacturing cluster in Bundelkhand.4. ₹22 crore were allocated for the health water scheme and Rs. 2031 crore were allocated for the improvement of sanitation by the government.5. ₹15,000 crore provision was made by the government for the Jaljivan Mission.6. The government also announced that nine medical colleges will be built and allocated ₹1950 crore for the same. Atal residential schools will also be opened in all mandals.7. For the farmers, the government announced that 400 crores will be provided for cheaper loans.Read more: 'Politics of appeasement carving Kerala': Yogi Adityanath8. The government also plans to develop Jewar Airport as Asia's biggest airport and proposed to set aside ₹2,000 crore for Jewar Airport. The state government has also increased the number of runways of the Jewar airport to six, from two proposed earlier. The first phase of the airport, which is expected to be completed by 2023, will be spread over 1,334 hectares and would cost ₹4,588 crore.9. The government also announced new schemes for women and child welfare allocating ₹100 crore for Saksham Suposhan Yojna. Malnourished children (six months to five-year-old) and teenage girls (11 to 14-year-old) who are not enrolled in school will be provided nutritious food under the scheme. It also allocated ₹200 crore for Mahila Samrthya Yojna under which women, especially in rural pockets of the state will be motivated to form cooperatives and will be trained for the same.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/rs-200-cr-for-ayodhya-and-varanasi-cheaper-loan-for-farmers-in-up-budget-key-points-101613985548033.html
22-02-2021||Mumbai||Covid-19 spike in Maharashtra: Sharad Pawar cancels all public events||NCP president Sharad Pawar on Monday said he has cancelled all his scheduled public engagements in view of the recent rise in Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra.On Sunday, Maharashtra reported 6,971 new coronavirus cases, raising the state's infection tally to 21,00,884.The state also reported 35 fatalities due to Covid-19 on Sunday, taking the toll to 51,788, as per official data.Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday said in view of the rising Covid-19 cases, religious, social and political gatherings will be prohibited in the state from Monday.Pawar, whose party is an ally of the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi in the state, in a tweet said, "I have cancelled all my scheduled public programmes in view of the rise in Covid-19 cases and the appeal made by the honourable chief minister and deputy chief minister."Earlier, NCP MP Supriya Sule postponed her programmes scheduled between February 22 and March 7 following the appeal made by CM Thackeray and Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar.Maharashtra Higher and Technical Education Minister Uday Samant has also cancelled his public event scheduled in Mumbai on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid19-spike-in-maharashtra-sharad-pawar-cancels-all-public-events-101613977109733.html
22-02-2021||Delhi||What’s up your sleeve?||Whether puffed or ruffled, choosing the right sleeve style can spice up even the simplest of garments. Statement sleeves have been trending in the fashion world. We recently saw imaginative versions in the Paris Fashion Week 2021. “Exaggerated sleeves are one of the hottest trends this season. They add drama to your outfits, and also give a cool girl spin to your wardrobe,” says Gautam Gupta, fashion designer. Bell sleeve, ruffle sleeve and balloon sleeve are some of the popular styles this season. “Exaggerated sleeves render a formal and a classy look to the garment. One can ace the look of a garment with exaggerated sleeves by sporting a clean hair look as messy hairstyles will take over the look. A splash of Swarovski or sequin work also enhances the look of the sleeve,” says fashion designer Deepa Sondhi. Here are some tips to help you rock stylish sleeves: 1. With waterfall sleeves, keep the rest of your outfit simple and go for tailored pants or skinny jeans and basic accessories. 2. Off shoulder exaggerated sleeves look great when teamed with boyfriend jeans and heels. 3. Ruffle sleeves are perfect to recreate the magic of the ‘80s. Go for classic pants or jeans with it and wear big hoop earrings. 4. Feminine and fun, flounce sleeves add effortless elegance to your look. Pair up with denims/shorts. 5. Sport a vintage inspired blouse with ruffle sleeves tucked in a leather skirt for a classic work look. 6. Choose a sleeve style keeping in mind the silhouette of your outfit and balance it according to your body.7. One can even make Indian wear more exciting with interesting sleeves. Puff sleeve blouses teamed with saris or lehengas stand out as sangeet or wedding wear picks.With Inputs by stylist Aakansha KapoorAuthor tweets @ruchikagarg271Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/whats-up-your-sleeve-101613983703346.html
22-02-2021||Patna||Bihar assembly adjourned amid protests on fuel price hike, board exam paper leak||Bihar Assembly was adjourned on Monday following opposition protests over fuel price hike and board examination question leaks disrupting the question hour. The state Budget for the year 2020-21 will be presented in the second half of the day’s session by deputy chief minister Tar Kishore Prasad.The house proceedings started with CPI-ML members raising the issue of fuel price hike. They shouted slogans and trooped into the well of the house, where they sat in protest despite the speaker’s requests to allow the question hour, which had 82 listed questions.When the speaker tried to resume the question hour for the second time, leader of opposition Tejashwi Yadav stood up raising the issue of Bihar board examination question leak. Earlier today, Tejashwi came to the assembly on a tractor in protest against fuel price hike but was stopped at the gate.“I had raised the issue of leak of social science question paper on Friday and today again there are reports of Hindi paper question leak. What is happening? The Bihar board claims to be following the CBSE pattern, but we never hear anything of this sort about the CBSE. It is a serious issue, as it affects students,” he said.The Speaker tried to impress upon members that the house was a platform for meaningful discussions and there was a time for raising all issues. “Out of 82 questions, online replies from concerned departments have been received for 77 and the members can raise important supplementary questions only if the house functions properly,” he said.The question hour continued with the CPI-ML members protesting in the well, though not much was audible. At one point, a BJP legislator got involved in an argument with the Tejashwi, when the latter started speaking on her behalf.Also Read: Patna minor with disability raped, govt promises compensation, rehabilitationBJP MLA Gayatri Devi raised the issue of lack of a police outpost in a panchayat of Sitamarhi district, where crime incidents were being reported. When minister Bijendra Prasad Yadav responded by saying that the matter will be looked into, Gayatri Devi said she was not satisfied as she didn’t get the reply to her question.At this, Tejashwi intervened, saying it was a serious issue that a legislator of the ruling dispensation was not satisfied with the government’s reply. However, Gayatri Devi asked him not to interfere. “This is between us. Why are you jumping into it? This is our question, and we will sort it out,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-assembly-adjourned-amid-protests-on-fuel-price-hike-board-exam-paper-leak-101613983139755.html
22-02-2021||Bangalore||Congress attacks Yediyurappa, lays out red carpet for disgruntled BJP leaders||Congress has launched an offensive against Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa, who is battling internal and external dissent. While former chief minister Siddaramaiah raised issues of financial crunch, alleged unfulfilled electoral promises by the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and donation collection for Ayodhya Ram Temple, Congress state chief DK Shivakumar said any disgruntled BJP leader was welcome to join the Congress.Siddaramaiah said if Yediyurappa wasn’t able to handle the state finances, he should quit in favour of someone who has the authority to do so. The Yediyurappa government was battling a shortage due to a reduction in revenue inflows from the centre. He has made several trips to Delhi seeking funds.To add to his woes, Yediyurappa is also facing heat from the Panchamasali sect of the powerful Lingayat community, which is demanding an increase in reservation. One seer at the Panchamasali reservation rally on Sunday said there were several other Lingayat political leaders in the state, questioning the 77-year-old leader’s status as their representative. Yediyurappa’s task has been complicated even more since Vokkaliga, Valmiki and Kurubas too are seeking a change in their reservation status.The state government is scheduled to address the media on the issue on Monday. Karnataka Congress president, D K Shivakumar said the party will make its stand on issues like reservation clear in the coming days and invited all disgruntled elements within the BJP to join the Congress. Sharath Bachegowda, the legislator from Hosakote and son of BJP's Chikkaballapur member of parliament, is scheduled to join the Congress party later this month.Also Read: New quota requests add to Karnataka's existing pileOpening up another front, Siddaramaiah had questioned the collection of donations for the construction of Ayodhya Ram Mandir.“We are also building a Ram Mandir in our village. Even we have faith in God. Our beliefs are our personal issues and should not be used as a political tool. It is unfortunate that @BJP4India leaders are using the Ram Mandir construction for their political benefits,” Siddaramaiah said on Saturday.K.S.Eshwarappa, senior BJP leader and cabinet minister on Sunday hit out at Siddaramaiah's remarks. "Who is he to ask for an account?," Eshwarappa asked.Another former chief minister and Janata Dal (Secular) leader H D Kumaraswamy, who has allied with the BJP in the upper house of the state legislature, has also questioned the collection of donations in the name of the temple. He alleged he had been threatened over donating for the cause.Siddaramiah also targeted Prime Minister Narendra Modi alleging he had made false election promises."The synonym for lie is Narendra Modi. His speeches before elections and today's conditions are completely opposite of each other. People who chanted Modi, Modi have been duped. His true colours will be exposed by the Congress," he posted in Kannada on Twitter with a hashtag #BJPFailsIndia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/congress-attacks-yediyurappa-lays-out-red-carpet-for-disgruntled-bjp-leaders-101613981026888.html
22-02-2021||Other||Monday Musings:3 years since DSK’s arrest... desperation grows among investors||PUNE Till five years ago, when Pune developer DS Kulkarni, a.k.a. DSK, used to share his life experiences on All India Radio’s (AIR) morning show, many used to see his anecdotes as aspiring tales worth emulating. As the developer completed three years in jail on February 17, with most of his family members also behind the bars, those invested in his schemes are losing patient.For these investors, if the arrest of the self-made billionaire, who is looking frail these days during the court proceedings, may have initially cheered hundreds of investors awaiting their hard-earned returns, the long and complicated legal process has only extended their wait. So, if the Yerawada prison has made life difficult for DS Kulkarni, the situation of many investors outside is equally bad, given the fact that most of them are senior citizens. So much so, a few investors have initiated the process of selling their fix deposits and non-convertible debentures (NCDs) at a price one-tenth of the actual value. The buyers are those willing to take the risk and gamble. These buyers with deep pockets can afford to wait till the case is resolved and investors get their money back after land holdings of DSK find buyers in the market. It was around 2015, when DS Kulkarni was at the peak of his business. The heydays in real estate prompted the ambitious businessman to launch one of the biggest projects of the DSK group -Dream City – on a land parcel at Phursungi. The same project, however, led to his downfall as he failed to repay the depositors’ money as demonetisation wiped out cash from the market. To finance the project, DSK started raising money through bank loans and deposits from citizens, who were promised higher interest rates as compared to the market. However, his arrest paused the development at Dream City and other real estate projects in Pune and parts of Maharashtra There are around 33,000 depositors identified with 6,792 complaints filed against DS Kulkarni in various parts of Maharashtra, including Pune, Mumbai and Kolhapur, according to the chargesheet filed against the real estate developer. The developer, as per the chargesheet, had raised ₹1,083 crore through unsecured loans from the banks and financial institutions, deposits and debentures. The probe also revealed a complex web of money flow and siphoning off large sums, as revealed in the supplementary chargesheet. In some of the schemes, brokers or middlemen lured investors to put in their money. The investors, however, have failed to provide the names of these middlemen, who have benefited from these investments given that they got the bulk of commissions.In the court, the case is currently at a stage where the prosecution is likely to frame charges against DSK and the family. It may take time before the actual trial begins, and the court disposes of the case. Till then, the investors can show a little more patience. DSK is not just one scheme where investors are awaiting justice. The Covid-induced lockdown was a double whammy for investors in the Shivajirao Bhosale bank case or Pancard club investment scheme, both currently being probed by police. The Pan Card Club, which began operations in 1997 collected ₹1,400 crore from depositors nationally. The investors are now awaiting their money back. The same goes with the Shivajirao Bhosale bank case, where police have arrested the Nationalist Congress Party’s (NCP) member of the legislative council, Shivaji Bhosale, along with other bank officers, on charges of a ₹71 crore fraud and other financial misappropriations running into crores. The bank, with 12 branches and ₹430 crore deposits, across Pune district and 1.10 lakh account holders, was promoted by Bhosale. The woes of investors are unending. But, patience may be the key to some relief… if any.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/monday-musings-3-years-since-dsk-s-arrest-desperation-grows-among-investors-101613981120063.html
22-02-2021||Mumbai||Instead of taking Ram Temple donations, slash fuel prices: Shiv Sena to govt||Shiv Sena on Monday launched an attack on the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led Central government over the increasing fuel prices in the country. Slamming the BJP, an editorial in Sena mouthpiece Saamana said that instead of taking contributions for Ram Temple in Ayodhya, the government should bring down the skyrocketing prices of petrol and diesel in the country.“The people have the right to live and it is the responsibility of the government to keep the prices of essential commodities under control. If the Central government has forgotten this then the public will remind them. Instead of seeking contributions for Ram Temple, bring down the skyrocketing fuel prices. Even Lord Ram will be happy with this,” the editorial said.Also Read | Elgar Parishad case: Bombay HC grants 6 months’ interim bail to Varavara RaoYuva Sena, the youth wing of Shiv Sena, has put up banners stating “Yahi hai acche din?” at various petrol pumps and roadsides in Mumbai, in a bid to register their protest against the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance government at the Centre. The banners have mentioned rates of petrol, diesel and LPG cylinders in 2014 and 2021.The editorial on Monday said, “The BJP should celebrate that petrol has crossed ₹100, but Prime Minister Narendra Modi has decided to give the credit to Congress. ‘Had the previous governments not been so energy import dependent our middle-class would not be burdened now,’ said Modi... The previous governments built Indian Oil, ONGC, Bharat Petroleum, Hindustan Petroleum, Bombay High to look for oil reserves. Modi is now selling all these PSUs and blaming the previous governments.”There was no immediate response from the BJP.The Sena mouthpiece also commented on the issue of Bollywood stars maintaining silence over rising fuel prices.The editorial questioned why film stars Amitabh Bachchan and Akshay Kumar should be blamed for not speaking up on the rising prices since no one could dissent in the country any longer.“Before 2014, Akshay Kumar and Amitabh Bachchan spoke about the rising fuel prices through social media. But now the celebrities are quiet even after petrol crossing ₹100. They are criticised by the Opposition now. They are quiet now because they have been made to sit quietly. This means that before 2014, there was the right to show dissent against the government. Today we have lost the right to show dissent. Why blame Amitabh Bachchan and Akshay Kumar?” the editorial said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/instead-of-taking-donations-for-ram-temple-slash-fuel-prices-shiv-sena-to-govt-101613977462072.html
22-02-2021||Mumbai||Activist Varavara Rao, arrested in Bhima Koregaon case, gets interim bail for 6 months||Telugu poet and activist Varavara Rao, who is an accused in the Bhima Koregaon case, was granted interim bail for six months on medical grounds by Bombay High Court on Monday. The order came on a petition filed by the wife of 82-year-old Rao’s wife, P Hemlatha. The activist’s wife had cited Rao’s frail health and co-morbidities in her plea to the high court seeking temporary bail on medical grounds. She had pointed out that a previous Nanavati Hospital report said that Rao was fit to be discharged and could take care of himself. In January, Rao’s counsel submitted that shifting Rao to Sir JJ Hospital could result in a relapse, and hence the option was to either send him to Taloja jail or his house in Hyderabad. Additional solicitor general Anil Singh, who was appearing for the National Investigation Agency (NIA), however, had argued that there were many undertrials in Maharashtra who were suffering from various ailments and being given requisite medical care by the state while in prison. The court was also informed that the poet could meet his family in the prison ward and therefore his application for bail so that he can return to his Hyderabad home should be rejected.The court has asked Rao to stay in Mumbai, within the jurisdiction of the special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court, during the bail period.On account of Rao’s ill health, the high court had, in November 2020, directed the state and NIA to shift Rao to Nanavati Hospital, a private super-speciality hospital in Mumbai, after he tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The poet is among over a dozen scholars and rights activists arrested for their alleged links with Maoists and for allegedly instigating violence at Bhima Koregaon near Pune in 2018. Rao has been booked under the anti-terror law, UAPA, 1967, a non-bailable offence, by the special NIA court in the Elgar Parishad and Bhima Koregaon case that was transferred from the Pune Police to NIA in February 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/varavara-rao-arrested-in-bhima-koregaon-case-gets-interim-bail-for-6-months-101613973900616.html
22-02-2021||Lucknow||UP’s 1st paperless budget likely to boost infra projects before 2022 polls||Uttar Pradesh on Monday will become the first state in the country to present a paperless budget, which is likely to see an increase in size to meet the dual objectives of mitigating the negative economic impact of Covid-19 and addressing the populist concerns ahead of the all important 2022 Assembly elections in the state, said officials and experts.“Yes, the state government may increase the size of the State Budget. Revised estimates may, however, bring the same close to or less than the size of 2020-21,” said Yashvir Tyagi, former professor at the department of economics, Lucknow University.However, mobilising resources will not be easy since revenue in the first few months of financial year 2020-21 declined considerably due to Covid-19, forcing an increase in VAT (Value Added Tax) on petrol and diesel and excise duty. This will be the last full-fledged budget before the 2022 assembly elections. Yogi Adityanath government had presented the largest-ever annual budget totalling ₹512,860.72 crore in 2020-21--an increase of 6.9% against the previous year. The size of the budget is likely to be close to ₹5.25 lakh crore or ₹5.50 lakh crore, if not more, said experts. Minister for finance Suresh Khanna, too, hinted at the budget’s size increasing this year despite challenges on the resource mobilisation front.Large allocations for infrastructure projects like the Ganga Expressway and the metro project is likely apart from other existing projects/schemes.“Announcements in the budget are political compulsions for any government. The state government should, however, follow the Union government and come out with a pre-budget economic survey and outcome budget to make the people aware of the impact of the budget on the state’s economy,” said Tyagi.The government is also likely to restore the Vidhayak Nidhi or the MLA LAD (local area development) funds that was suspended for one year as a slew of measures undertaken to mobilise resources to fight Covid-19.Although minister for finance Suresh Khanna recently parried a question in this regard, he may make an announcement in his budget speech.In another milestone, Uttar Pradesh will become the first state in the country following the example of the Union government to present a paperless budget.Also Read: UP sounds alert after Covid surge in other states, to monitor visitorsA sum of up to ₹50,000 was earmarked for every legislator to buy an iPad. They have been trained to upload questions in the Assembly or download material using it. A special app, 'Uttar Pradesh Sarkar Ka Budget', has also been built and made available on iOS and Android platforms.“Yes, the budget will be completely paperless. Our staff will be there to help the legislators if they face any problem,” said principal secretary (parliamentary affairs) JP Singh.The budget can also be downloaded from the state assembly’s website or the state government’s budget website, said a senior officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ups-1st-paperless-budget-likely-to-boost-infra-projects-before-2022-polls-101613971646203.html
22-02-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Vidarbha reports highest number of Covid-19 cases||Amid a rise in Covid-19 cases, Vidarbha region is reporting the highest number of new infections in Maharashtra. It recorded 2,527 cases on Sunday, 36.25% of the total new cases in the state reported on that day.On Sunday, the state recorded 6,971 cases, its highest one-day spike in the last 121 days since October 23, when the state clocked 7,347 cases. The state’s Covid-19 case tally has reached 2,100,884.Vidarbha has surpassed Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), which reported the highest number of cases for most of the time during the pandemic. On Sunday, MMR clocked 1,678 cases and Mumbai recorded 921 cases.Amravati in Vidarbha region is also reporting the highest number of cases across the state. On Sunday, Amravati (both district and city) reported 926 cases, while on Saturday, 1,055 cases were reported in the district. Also Read | Will review the need for fresh lockdown after 8 days: UddhavThe spike has led to a week-long lockdown in Amravati city to arrest the spread of the infection. “Amravati city will be placed under lockdown for a week starting Monday, 8pm,” guardian minister Yashomati Thakur said on Sunday. Only essential services will be allowed to function during the lockdown. This will be the first lockdown after the state initiated “Mission Begin Again” or unlocking activities. A few other districts in Vidarbha and other parts of the state such as Akola, Yavatmal, Pune, Nashik, Parbhani have imposed other curbs, including night curfew, weekend lockdown, closure of schools and colleges and started penalising people and establishments for not following Covid-19 protocol.“The rise in cases is worrying as daily cases have doubled only in a few days. On February 11, 3,297 cases were reported in the state; the number rose to 6,971, more than double, on Sunday. Moreover, the daily cases are constantly rising and we require strict decisions to bring the situation back under control,” said a senior health official.On Sunday, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray issued an ultimatum to people, warning them of a lockdown if Covid-19 protocol was not followed properly. “It all depends on you, whether you want a lockdown or you are ready to follow the norms to avoid it. The lockdown this time will be more difficult to follow. It will be known only after a week or two if we are facing the second wave of pandemic,” he said. He also announced a ban on social, religious, political gatherings and protests for the next few weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-vidarbha-reports-highest-number-of-covid-19-cases-101613969960080.html
22-02-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC to hear Sherlyn Chopra’s pre-arrest bail plea today||The Bombay high court is likely to hear the anticipatory bail application of actor Sherlyn Chopra on Monday. The actor had moved the application after the sessions court had rejected a similar application on February 8. The actor was booked by the Cyber Crime cell of the Mumbai Police on November 6 under Section 292 of the Indian Penal Code, Section 67 and 67A of the Information Technology Act, 2008 and Section 3 and 4 of the Indecent Representation of Women (Protection) Act, 1986. The complaint was lodged after obscene videos of the actor were found on free-to-view sites on the Internet. Also Read | Presumptions under Pocso Act can only be rebutted at trial: Bombay HCThe actor’s application, filed through advocate Charanjeet Chanderpal, claimed that she is a victim and the said videos were pirated and uploaded on free-to-view sites by someone else without her permission. When the application came up for hearing before the bench of justice PD Naik on February 18, Chanderpal informed the court that the alleged obscene content found on free-to-view sites was created by a UK-based company of which Chopra is a director. He added that the content created by the company was paid content but someone had pirated it and uploaded the same on the Internet without the consent of his client. In light of these submissions and the fact that actor could not be present for interrogation due to personal reasons when she was called by the police in November last year, Chopra sought protection from arrest as she was willing to cooperate with the investigation. On February 18, after the cyber cell gave an oral assurance that it would not take any coercive action against the actor till her application was heard the court posted the hearing for February 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-to-hear-sherlyn-chopra-s-pre-arrest-bail-plea-today-101613968939879.html
22-02-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Four members of a family found dead in Sikar district||Four members of a family allegedly died by suicide in Sikar district of Rajasthan. The police recovered their bodies on Monday.“We found the bodies of a man, his wife and two daughters hanging,” said Virendra Sharma, circle officer, Sikar city. Also Read | Uttar Pradesh: Told they cannot get married, interfaith couple attempts suicideA note recovered at the spot stated that the family members were depressed after the couple’s teenaged son died of a heart attack in September last year. Referring to the death of his son, the man wrote that no one was to blame for the family’s decision to kill themselves. They missed him and thus had decided to end their lives. Further investigation is underway. If you need support or know someone who does, please reach out to your nearest mental health specialist. Helplines: Aasra: 022 2754 6669; Sneha India Foundation: +914424640050 and Sanjivini: 011-24311918||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-four-members-of-a-family-found-dead-in-sikar-district-101613968220316.html
22-02-2021||Delhi||Delhi air quality in poor category, significant improvement unlikely||Delhi’s air quality remained in the poor category with an air quality index of 288 on Monday, according to Sameer app of Central Pollution Control Board. An AQI of 301 to 400 puts the air quality in very poor category. AQI is likely to hover in “poor” to “very poor” category over Delhi and other parts of northwest India due to calm winds in the evening, which slow down dispersal of pollutants. “Wind speed during the day was around 10kmph but in the evening, it will be mostly calm. This is why we are not seeing any improvement in air quality. We are unlikely to record any significant improvement in the coming days either,” said VK Soni, scientist at India Meteorological Department (IMD)’s air quality division. Baghpat, Bulandshahr, Ghaziabad, Moradabad, Meerut also recorded “very poor” air quality on Monday. “As February is coming to an end we are expecting a rise in both maximum and minimum temperatures. Maximum temperature is likely to be 30 to 31 degrees Celsius while minimum is likely to be 12 to 13 degrees Celsius in the next three or four days. A western disturbance is impacting the Western Himalayan region. Once that moves away, there will be a marginal and brief drop in temperatures in the Capital as cold northwesterly winds will be blowing, but otherwise its likely to get warmer now,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre. Also Read | Foggy February: Experts explore reasons behind ‘unusual’ weather phenomenonOn Monday , Delhi’s maximum temperature was 28.9 degrees Celsius, 4 degrees above normal and minimum temperature was 11 degrees Celsius, 0 degrees above normal. Under the influence of a fresh western disturbance, widespread rainfall or snowfall is very likely over Jammu, Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit, Baltistan and Muzaffarabad; scattered rainfall/snowfall is likely over Himachal Pradesh for next 3 days and fairly widespread rainfall for the subsequent 2 days while scattered rainfall or snowfall is also likely over Uttarakhand during next 5 days. Thunderstorm or lighting is very likely over Jammu, Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit, Baltistan and Muzaffarabad during next 5 days and over Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand during February 23 to 26. Isolated hailstorm is likely over Jammu, Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit, Baltistan and Muzaffarabad on February 24 and 25; Himachal Pradesh on February 25 and 26 and over Uttarakhand during February 23 to 26. Air quality early warning system for Delhi under the ministry of earth sciences had forecast that air quality is likely to be in very poor category on Monday and Tuesday. The predominant surface wind is likely to be coming from west of Delhi with wind speed 05-15 kmph, mainly clear sky and mist or shallow fog in the morning on February 23.Meanwhile, IMD said dense to very dense fog was observed in isolated pockets over Delhi, and the visibility remained 500 metres in most parts of the city.On Sunday too, the AQI was recorded in poor category at 295. The average air quality was recorded in the poor category across Ghaziabad, Noida, Greater Noida, Faridabad and Gurgaon as well, according to data issued by a government agency on Sunday. According to CPCB’s Sameer app, AQI was 260 in Ghaziabad, 300 in Greater Noida, 251 in Noida, 264 in Faridabad and 297 in Gurugram. (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-aqi-improves-slightly-air-quality-in-poor-category-101613967199895.html
22-02-2021||Bangalore||New quota requests add to Karnataka's existing pile||At least 36 caste groups in Karnataka await their turn for a change in reservation status and category as well as corrections in spellings, among other requests, before the Karnataka Backward Classes Commission, people aware of the developments said.Some of these requests are at least 5-10 years old, highlighting the slow process and time taken for any changes related to caste groups in a state -- and the country -- where these communities are an integral part of electoral politics.The pending applications indicate that fresh demands by at least four large communities in Karnataka -- Panchamasali, Kuruba, Vokkaliga and Valmiki -- over the last couple of weeks for better reservation categories and higher allocations, among other reasons, will have to wait their turn.“The new requests (for change in reservation category) will take a long time as it involves carrying out studies on communities who are not concentrated in just one region but are spread out across the state,” said one person directly aware of the developments.“This report is then given to the state government for further action,” the person cited above said, requesting not to be named.The backward classes commission often resorts to seeking help from students at universities to collect data to make up for the shortage of personnel. The department has also continued with the services of retired officials who know the intricacies and complexities of reviewing caste categories and allocations, said the person.While pressure to announce higher reservations, opportunities pile up on chief minister BS Yediyurappa, the list of demands from other caste groups continues to increase.With elections just two years away, Yediyurappa has been making promises of increasing allocations and changing reservation categories to help consolidate groups that have traditionally backed the saffron party and those who are seen to side with the opposition parties to better its chances of returning to power in 2023.According to political analysts, the increasing number of caste groups demanding changes makes it easier for Yediyurappa to reorganise the structure by moving everyone one step forward and not seen to be favouring any one of them.“He may welcome the chance to renegotiate the caste representation. The resistance will come from backward castes who have to part with a portion from their existing quota (with a bigger community who may be moved up in category or allocations),” Narendar Pani, political analyst and faculty at the National Institute of Advanced Studies (NIAS), said.This resistance was capitalised by Siddaramaiah of the Congress who mobilised the AHINDA (Kannada acronym for Dalits, backward classes and minorities) and stormed to power with an absolute majority in the 2013 elections.Though caste plays an important role in politics across the country, Karnataka takes it to a whole new level where each group has identified itself with the major parties in the state.The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) enjoys the backing of the dominant Lingayats, while Dalits, communities that come under other backward classes and minorities back the Congress.Former prime minister HD Deve Gowda and his JD(S) rely heavily on the Vokkaliga’s, another dominant and politically influential community found largely in the Old Mysuru region.In the hope of consolidating existing caste-based support, Yediyurappa has constituted a Brahmin board and administrative entities for Maratha and Lingayat communities in the state as well.The saffron party does not yet have a credible replacement for the 77-year-old Yediyurappa, who has taken it upon himself to bring the party back to power with a majority on its own in 2023. To get a majority on their own, the BJP has to look beyond the existing support groups.Also Read: Yatnal sets Yediyurappa new timeframe for 2A reservation for PanchamasaliPolitical analysts say that Siddaramaiah, a member of the Kuruba community, tried to challenge the existing dominant caste theory in the state after his rise to power as the chief minister with the backing of AHINDA.His plan, however, to get the support of the Lingayats backfired when he, on the advice of some of his ministers, mooted to accord the community the status of a separate religion just before the 2018 assembly elections.His proposal to distinguish between Veerashaivas and Lingayats cost him dearly in the 2018 elections and forced Congress to strike a coalition with its arch-rivals, the JD(S), to keep the BJP at bay.A Social and Educational Survey-2015 or better known as caste census, commissioned by a Siddaramaiah-led Congress government in 2015, the first anywhere in the country since 1931, is yet to be officially released.Though the leaked findings bring down the percentage of Lingayats and Vokkaliga, who were believed to account for around 17% and 14%, respectively to under 10%.The renewed demands by the Panchamasalis, the largest sub-sect within the Lingayats, has now diluted the earlier consolidation and political demarcation, analysts say.Influential seers of the Panchamasali sect have renewed their demand to be categorised under 2A from 3B category, experts on caste say.“This is nothing but an attempt to scuttle the earlier unity and they have succeeded,” an expert on caste said, requesting anonymity due to the sensitive nature of the issue.The Kuruba community’s demand to be included in the Scheduled Tribe (ST) category is an attempt by the BJP to mobilise a community that has so far firmly backed its tallest leader, Siddaramaiah.The Valmiki, already classified as ST, have demanded an increase in allocation from 3.5% to 7.5%.Yediyurappa has assured to “look into” all three requests as seers and pontiffs at influential Mathas (or monasteries) have the ability to swing votes in their respective strongholds.All three campaigns have senior and prominent BJP leaders, including ministers, leading from the front.Analysts say that if the Centre backs Yediyurappa, and does consider requests for better reservation opportunities, it would make more room for upper castes in the state.If the Centre does move the politically-influential Kuruba community into ST category, then it would free up space to move the Lingayats and Vokkaligas a step higher, Pani said. “This also frees up quotas for upper castes who will now have more opportunities and play into the BJP’s narrative,” Pani added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/new-quota-requests-add-to-karnataka-s-existing-pile-101613965828340.html
22-02-2021||Bangalore||Siddaramaiah targets PM Modi and Yediyurappa over ‘unfulfilled’ promises||Former Karnataka chief minister and senior Congress leader Siddaramaiah on Sunday lashed out at Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led state and central governments over unfulfilled promises to the people.“The synonym for lie is Narendra Modi. His speeches before elections and today’s conditions are completely opposite of each other. People who chanted Modi, Modi have been duped. His true colours will be exposed by the Congress,” he posted in Kannada on Twitter with hashtag #BJPFailsIndia.Siddaramaiah also targeted chief minister BS Yediyurappa, stating that if the latter could not handle the state finances, why was he still in power. He added that Yediyurappa should step down and allow those who have the power to continue.Also Read: Narendra Modi’s new political narrativeThe Congress, the principal opposition in Karnataka, has upped the ante against the BJP whose government has been rattled by dissent and shortage of funds due to the reduction of revenue inflows from the Centre. Yediyurappa has found himself seemingly isolated within his own government and party, leaving himself more vulnerable to opposition attacks.Karnataka Congress president DK Shivakumar said the party will take decisions to corner the government and make its stand clear on issues like reservation in the coming days.Siddaramaiah has also attacked the donations collected for the construction of Ram Mandir in Ayodhya and sought details of the collections.“We are also building a Ram Mandir in our village. Even we have faith in God. Our beliefs are our personal issues and should not be used as a political tool. It is unfortunate that @BJP4India leaders are using the Ram Mandir construction for their political benefits,” Siddaramaiah had said on Saturday.KS Eshwarappa, senior BJP leader and cabinet minister, on Sunday lashed out at Siddaramaiah’s remarks. “Who is he to ask for an account?” he asked.Former chief minister and Janata Dal (Secular) leader HD Kumaraswamy, who has allied with the BJP in the upper house of the state legislature, has also questioned donations being collected by people in the name of the temple. He even said that people had threatened him over donating for the cause.Yediyurappa is facing challenges not just from the opposition or his own government but also from communities that have traditionally backed him throughout his political career.Shivakumar also invited all disgruntled elements within the BJP to join the Congress.Sharath Bachegowda, the legislator from Hosakote and son of BJP MP from Chikkaballapur, is scheduled to join the Congress later this month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/siddaramaiah-targets-pm-modi-and-yediyurappa-over-unfulfilled-promises-101613965209384.html
22-02-2021||Mumbai||Fuel price hike: Shiv Sena puts up 'yahi hai acche din?' banners at petrol pumps||Two days after petrol price touched an all-time high of ₹97 in Mumbai, the Shiv Sena’s youth wing on Monday put up banners at several petrol pumps in the city targeting the Centre over the rising fuel prices. Taking a swipe at the BJP government, whose slogan during the 2014 Lok Sabha elections was 'Acche Din Aane Wale Hain' (good days are about to come), Yuva Sena hung hoardings at petrol pumps and roadside in Bandra West. The hoardings asked ‘Yahi Hain Acche Din?’ (are these the good days?). The remark was followed by a comparison of fuel prices in 2015 and 2021, according to which the price of gas, diesel and petrol ranged between ₹50- ₹65 in the former year and corresponding prices are nearing or have already ₹90 mark in the latter. On Monday, petrol was selling at ₹97 per litre in Mumbai while diesel cost ₹88.06 per litre. Union petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan has said that India has urged the Opec (Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries) to ease the production cuts as they were hurting the consumers in the economy, which has just begun to revive after the coronavirus pandemic. "There are two main reasons for the fuel price rise. The international market has reduced fuel production and manufacturing countries are producing less fuel to gain more profit. This is making the consumer countries suffer," the minister said.The opposition has been slamming the government for soaring fuel prices triggered by production cuts by global oil producers. On Sunday, Congress president Sonia Gandhi expressed her “anguish and deep distress regarding the spiralling fuel and gas prices”.Earlier this month, key functionaries of the ruling Shiv Sena led protests in Mumbai as part of a state-wide campaign against the rising fuel and cooking gas prices. The party has warned it would intensify the protests if the Centre does not take steps to reduce the prices. “The Union government has been looting the common man for months by increasing the fuel prices... This has to stop. Shiv Sena will intensify protests if the Centre does not arrest the price rise,” Sena leader Ashish Chemburkar had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/yahi-hai-acche-din-sena-s-banners-at-mumbai-petrol-pumps-amid-fuel-price-hike-101613965012168.html
22-02-2021||Bangalore||Dark web, drugs and bitcoins send Bengaluru police into a tizzy||How do you seize a Bitcoin? This was one of the several questions that puzzled Bengaluru Police while probing a hacker caught for purchasing drugs from the dark web using bitcoins in November last year. The case was among the 30 registered by the cops over the past year, wherein synthetic drugs and other contrabands were procured from the dark web.Taking note of the surge in cases, Karnataka home minister Basavaraj Bommai last week had directed the police to focus more on crimes originating from the dark web. With the anonymity and complexity of the dark web providing a safety net for criminals, police are now forced to improvise on their conventional investigation methods to tackle the new challenge.The dark web is a part of the internet that isn’t indexed by search engines like Google. From synthetic drugs to stolen credit cards and details of weapons, users can buy from a large inventory of contrabands from this part of the internet, without any government surveillance.“The key here is anonymity. To access the dark web, the user has to use a browser which hides the identity and location of the user,” Sandeep Patil, joint commissioner of police (crime), said. This further makes it difficult to monitor the procurement of synthetic drugs from the dark web.Also Read: Bitcoin hits $1 trillion market cap, soars to a record high“We have found that many criminals have procured synthetic drugs from abroad, especially Scandinavian countries. First, we cannot track who is purchasing what from the dark web. Second, it is hard to track them when they arrive in India. To give an example, in the case of LSD, also known as acid, it is a sheet of paper. When the order arrives at an airport in India, it becomes difficult to find it among other larger consignments,” the officer added.On November 18, while interrogating eight men who were arrested for possessing hydro marijuana, police learnt that a man had helped the gang procure the drug from Amsterdam. The arrest of Srikrishna (25), who procured these drugs via the dark web, opened the pandora’s box.The accused confessed that he had hacked three three Bitcoin exchanges and 10 poker sites among others to procure the drugs. Bitcoins worth ₹9 crore were seized from him.Unlike normal money, the officer explained, seizing the bitcoins proved to be a difficult task.“There is no physical money, unlike other recoveries. This is a cryptocurrency that exists on the web. In this case, the police opened an account and asked the accused to transfer his bitcoins to this account. This is how we found a way around seizing cryptocurrency,” an official familiar with the probe said.Besides this, Srikrishna, police said, would hack into people and their companies’ WiFi accounts and mirror those devices to steal credit card details among other data. In some cases, he used to resort to online extortion, where he would hack into the internal network of companies and demand ransom for not releasing the data on the dark web.“He has sold credit cards details and much more on the dark web. We learnt a lot about the marketplaces in the dark web during this time and that there could be much more than drugs that can be obtained from the dark web,” the official added.Police say the investigation into this new era of crime carries new challenges. Unlike other crimes, where police could survey locations or trace suspects, it is difficult to track the dark web.“We can’t get into the details of how we are adapting to the new challenges but we are improvising on our investigation. For example, we are keeping an eye on consignments from certain countries with the help of customs,” an official from the cyber division said, preferring anonymity. However, the biggest challenge for them is expected to be the prosecution. According to police, communicating the nuances of such cyber-crimes would be hard. “In most of the cases, we have to argue hard to deny the suspect bail as the evidence against them are on the internet and they could easily destroy them. Making a strong case explaining the functioning of the dark web is also a challenge,” the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/dark-web-drugs-and-bitcoins-send-bengaluru-police-into-a-tizzy-101613964407423.html
22-02-2021||Delhi||Farmers’ protest: Key Delhi borders shut, traffic diverted, jams expected||Three borders around Delhi — Singhu, Ghazipur and Tikri — continued to be blocked on Monday due to the farmers’ protest, who are demanding the withdrawal of three contentious farm laws. The Delhi traffic police have had to divert vehicles, which may possibly lead to traffic congestion in parts of the city during peak hours.Officers of the Delhi traffic police said that jams may be witnessed during peak hours in Delhi as the Ghazipur-Ghaziabad (UP Gate) border remains completely closed due to the ongoing agitation. All six lanes of Delhi-Meerut Expressway, NH-9 and NH-24 are closed because of the UP Gate border blockade, and vehicles entering Delhi from Ghaziabad are being diverted to alternative border routes such as Anand Vihar, Surya Nagar, Apsara, Bhopra, Loni, Kondli, Chilla, New Ashok Nagar, DND, and Kalindi Kunj, they said.Also Read | Will soon visit Gujarat to mobilise support for farmers’ protest: Rakesh Tikait“No traffic is being allowed on Delhi-Meerut Expressway as farmers are continuing their protest. Chilla border between Noida and Delhi is open on both sides,” a traffic police officer said.Traffic police officers said that Auchandi border is open only during morning and evening peak hours while Lampur, Safiabad, Singhu school and Palla toll tax borders are open for the traffic.The traffic officers advised motorists to take alternate routes as traffic is expected to remain heavy on GT Karnal Road, Outer Ring Road and NH-44.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/farmers-protest-key-delhi-borders-shut-traffic-diverted-jams-expected-101613963299737.html
22-02-2021||Lucknow||UP sounds alert after Covid surge in other states, to monitor visitors||Sounding an alert due to rising Covid-19 cases in states such Maharashtra, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Chattisgarh, Punjab, Haryana and Kerala, Uttar Pradesh will issue guidelines for visitors to UP from these states, said a top health department official on Sunday.Health and family welfare department reviewed the situation following the spike in Covid cases in many states, including Haryana, Madhya Pradesh and Chattisgarh, who share borders with UP, said officials.An advisory for mandatory testing and quarantine for passengers coming from red zones is likely to be issued.Though Covid cases have declined in Uttar Pradesh, situation in all districts is being monitored, particularly those bordering other states. The state government is carrying out over 1.25 lakh sample tests daily along with contact tracing and surveillance work in all districts, said DS Negi, director general, health.Must Watch: 'Love jihad plot to make Kerala Islamic state': UP CM Yogi campaigns for BJPStates witnessing a surge in Covid cases have been instructed by the Centre to increase sample tests, do comprehensive surveillance and implement stringent containment curbs to check the spread of the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-sounds-alert-after-covid-surge-in-other-states-to-monitor-visitors-101613962901831.html
22-02-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Straight out of a fairy tale||All sorts of colours and curiosities spring up along the street, with shoppers and sellers engaging in a most comely harmony. This has to be Delhi’s dreamiest and most eclectic pavement market. When so many visitors come to Old Delhi for its monuments, cuisines and street life, it is astonishing that this pavement market isn’t featured in any guidebook.According to one seller, it has been functioning since the 1950s. In that sense, it is a historic landmark too. The bazar is located in the Walled City’s Chitli Qabar neighbourhood. Every day, hawkers claim the pavements from the early hours of the morning, decking their many stalls with their specialities. The entire street is clouded with impressions of all kinds, as if one were walking through a fairy tale. To list just some of the bazar sellers and what they sell is like reading that famous episode of the Iliad, in which Homer catalogues the ships and warriors of the Achaean army.Gulfam is selling ice. Bhure Khan is selling plastic dastarkhwan — dining mats for people who dine on the floor. Muhammed Ismail is selling frocks. Aamir is selling serving trays. Anish is selling a variety of unconnected things such as ear buds, wipers, kitchen lighters and combs. Muhammed Waseem is selling glass bangles. Shaad is selling boxes of “pasta masala” and “chocolate facial kit.” Nadeem is selling bedsheets. Muhammed Ismail is selling “sleeves of ladies kurtas.” Aashiq is selling track suits. Rashiq is selling “ladies suits.” Muhammed Mustakeem is selling plastic flowers. Qumar Ahmad is selling pencil boxes. Rabab is selling kitchen utensils. Ajmal is selling “ladies bra.” Iftikhar Ahmad is selling plastic bags. Mukhtar Ahmad is selling laces. Raees is selling hand bags. Vipin is selling many kinds of cello tapes. Mukeem is selling “ladies palazzos.” Rizwan is selling diapers. Muhammed Yunus is selling clocks. Muhammed Sawib is selling hairpins. Tak Shah is selling mirrors...The bazar closes by 11am, when the shops and showrooms lining the street open their shutters, and the hawkers are required to clear the way. The magic then ends and the street starts looking like any other street.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-straight-out-of-a-fairy-tale-101613959820415.html
22-02-2021||Bhopal||MP police arrest dentist who killed woman, hid body in Drishyam style||A dentist in Madhya Pradesh’s Satna district allegedly killed a woman and buried her body in an empty plot similar to the crime committed in popular Malayalam film Drishyam. But was arrested as his mobile location was traced to the plot, police said on Sunday.When asked about the reasons for being at the vacant plot for a long time, Dr Ashutosh Tripathi gave in and confessed to the crime, said Satna, superintendent of police, Dharamveer Singh Yadav.Police excavated the decomposed body of the woman, a resident of Satna, Vibha Kevat, 24, from an empty plot on Saturday. Police arrested the accused Dr Ashutosh Tripathi under section 302 (murder) of IPC for killing the woman and burying her body with a dog to dodge the police.“The woman used to work at Dr Ashutosh Tripathi’s clinic. On December 14, 2020, she didn’t return to her home from the clinic. When the woman’s parents asked Tripathi, he said Vibha was upset with her family and started living independently,” Yadav said.“The parents tried to contact Vibha many times, when they didn’t receive any response they filed a police complaint on February 1. Police started investigation and also interrogated Tripathi but he denied having any information about Vibha,” said the SP.In the investigation, police found the tower location of Vibha’s mobile and Ashutosh at the same place on December 14. Police detained Tripathi and interrogated him. Tripathi confessed to his crime, he added.Also Read: BJP leader among four booked for abduction, rape of 19-yr-old in MPIn his confession to police, Tripathi said, “We were in a relationship. Vibha was pressuring me for marriage but I didn’t want to marry her. On December 14, we fought on this issue and I strangled her to death. Later to hide the body, I asked some labourers to dig a pit to bury a dog. I arranged a dead dog. I buried the woman first and covered her body with clay and later buried the dog in the same pit. If anybody showed suspicion due to stink, I could say I buried a dog there in the empty plot.”Police are interrogating him to know whether he committed the crime alone. There are many questions still unanswered like who arranged a dead dog and how he took the body to the pit, said the SP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/mp-police-arrest-dentist-who-killed-woman-hid-body-in-drishyam-style-101613959258112.html
22-02-2021||Patna||Man sentenced to death for girl’s rape-murder||The special court in Bihar’s Gopalganj district sentenced on Saturday a 20-year-old man to death for raping and murdering a nine-year-old girl in August last year.The court also directed the state government to pay additional compensation of ₹5 lakh to the victim’s mother.The court of additional district and sessions judge Balendu Shukla convicted Jaikishor Shah of raping and murdering the nine-year-old girl under sections 302, 376 (A,B) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and under section 4/6/8 and 10 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act.According to Gopalganj SP Anand Kumar, the nine-year-old girl’s body was found stuffed in a gunny bag in a steel box at Shah’s house in Bakhraur village, about 200 metres from the victim’s place on August 25 last year. The accused had fled the village, but was arrested within 24 hours, he added.During the interrogation, Shah confessed to raping and murdering the girl, when she visited his house to play with his two-year-old son.Special public prosecutor Daroga Singh said the police submitted the charge sheet within two months, while the judgment came within 25 days of framing of charges against the culprit.Earlier on February 15, a Pocso court in Patna awarded death penalty to a private school principal Arvind Kumar, alias Raj Singhania, raping an 11-year-old girl on the institution premises.Besides Singhania, the court also handed over rigorous life imprisonment to schoolteacher Abhishek Kumar (29) for conniving with Arvind.According to the National Crime Records Bureau, the number of crimes against women in India increased by 7.3% between 2018 and 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/man-sentenced-to-death-for-girl-s-rapemurder-101613957261744.html
22-02-2021||Bhopal||BJP leader among four booked for abduction, rape of 19-yr-old in MP||A Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and three others have been booked for allegedly abducting and raping a 19-year-old woman in Shahdol, 592 km east of Bhopal, the police said on Sunday.“The accused have been identified as BJP’s Jaitpur mandal president Vijay Tripathi, a school teacher, Rajesh Shukla, and two locals, Munna Singh and Monu Maharaj. They abducted the woman on February 18 from near her house, raped her for two days and then threw her off the car near her house on Saturday night,” said superintendent of police, Shahdol, Awadesh Goswami. The woman was rushed to a hospital in Jaitpur by her family from where she was referred to Shahdol district hospital on Sunday afternoon where her condition is stated to be critical. The accused are absconding, said Goswami. “An FIR has been registered against all four accused under sections 363 (abduction) and 376 (d) (gang rape). Police are investigating the matter and trying to nab the accused,” he added.The survivor’s family has, meanwhile, alleged that the police didn’t take immediate action in the matter and even the FIR was registered after 15-16 hours.“The woman was abducted on February 18 night from her house. The family lodged a complaint with Jaitpur police. On Saturday night, the accused threw her off their car and fled the spot,” the woman’s brother-in-law alleged.“The woman was in an unconscious state. She was admitted to a hospital in Jaitpur. After she gained consciousness, the survivor informed the police about the incident. Rajesh Shukla abducted her and took her to his farmhouse, where she was forced to drink liquor. The four accused, including the BJP leader, then raped her for two days. She identified all the accused as they were known to her and her family members,” he added.According to the brother-in-law, the woman was found at 10pm on Saturday near the house and the police registered the FIR around 4pm on Sunday, after the matter caught the attention of media.The SP, however, refuted the family’s allegations and said the case was registered immediately after completing preliminary investigation. BJP Madhya Pradesh president VD Sharma couldn’t be reached for a comment despite repeated attempts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/bjp-leader-among-four-booked-for-abduction-rape-of-19-yr-old-in-mp-101613955695017.html
22-02-2021||Ranchi||Tribal people are not Hindus, says Soren; BJP launches attack||Advocating a separate religious code for tribal people in the country, Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren has underlined that they were never Hindus by faith and the Centre needs to provide a separate column for indigenous people in the upcoming Census. The remarks drew a sharp response from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which accused Soren of “speaking the language of the Vatican”.Soren was speaking on Saturday at the India Conference at Harvard 2021, organised by students of Harvard Business School and Harvard Kennedy School. Replying to a specific question by the moderator whether tribals were not Hindus, Soren said, “There is no confusion on it. Tribal was never a Hindu, nor are they Hindus now. Tribals are worshippers of nature and have a separate set of customs and practices. And that is the reason why they are classified as tribals and indigenous people.” Prior to this, the chief minister, who is also the JMM working president, underlined that the Centre should provide the tribals a distinct column to mark their religion in the upcoming national Census. The Jharkhand assembly in November last year had unanimously adopted a resolution demanding a Sarna Tribal Religious Code for tribal people in the Census.It was for the second time during the day that the CM raised the issue of a separate religious code. Earlier in the day, speaking at the NITI Aayog council meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Soren took up the issue and urged the Centre to consider the proposal sent by the Jharkhand assembly over the issue sympathetically.Reacting to the CM’s view, Jharkhand BJP spokesperson Pratul Shahdeo said, “By saying such things on an international platform, the CM is playing in the hands of the Vatican. We have constitutional bodies like legislature and judiciary to decide on such issues like the Sarna code. But by saying such things at an international platform, he is even allowing foreign hands to meddle into our affairs.”Jharkhand Congress spokesperson Kishore Shadeo said, “It won’t be proper to comment on the CM’s specific statement as I don’t know what exactly he said. However, Congress had promised Sarna code in election. In the government we decided and got a resolution passed in assembly. Now the Centre must honour it and provide a separate column for the tribals in census.”As per the 2011 Census, tribals make up nearly 26% of the 32.4 million population of Jharkhand. According to tribal rights activists, a majority of the tribal people in the state who are not Christians opted for the “Others” column while marking their religious identity in the 2011 Census.At the India Conference event, Soren also spoke about a host of other issues related to tribal people, migrant workers and other key sectors of development in the state. On the overall condition of tribals, Soren said despite the constitutional provisions, a dedicated ministry and laws in place for the betterment of tribals, they are still at the receiving end of exploitation and discrimination and it has “not been easy” even for him to reach the position he currently holds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/tribal-people-are-not-hindus-says-soren-bjp-launches-attack-101613954650435.html
22-02-2021||Kolkata||‘Cannot scare us’: CM Mamata hits back||Hours after the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) summoned her nephew and Trinamool Congress (TMC) MP Abhishek Banerjee’s wife and her sister for questioning in connection with the coal pilferage case, chief minister Mamata Banerjee said on Sunday that she is not intimidated by anyone adding that “a tiger cub is not scared of fighting cats and rats”.“Muscle flexing or threats of jail sentence cannot scare us. We have stood before guns in the past. We won’t be scared of fighting rats. I will not surrender as long as I am alive. You cannot break our spine. A tiger cub is not scared of cats and rats,” Banerjee said addressing an event to celebrate International Mother Language Day.Earlier in the day, Abhishek Banerjee tweeted a photograph of the notice that CBI additional superintendent of police Umesh Kumar left at his residence. Abhishek’s wife, Rujira, was not present at their residence when the five-member CBI team arrived around 2 pm. The agency has also summoned TMC MP’s sister-in-law, Menaka Gambhir in the case.Also Read | 'Not scared of rats': Mamata Banerjee after CBI seeks to question nephew’s wife“At 2pm today, the CBI served a notice in the name of my wife. We have full faith in the law of the land. However, if they think they can use these ploys to intimidate us, they are mistaken. We are not the ones who would ever be cowed down,” he tweeted. CBI officials said they have plans to question Rujira Banerjee on Monday morning.In a statement on the CBI action, the TMC said that people will give a befitting reply to the BJP during the polls. “So predictable. So desperate. All BJP allies have left them. So the only loyal allies are CBI and ED. CBI is the only ally of the BJP left,” the party said, adding that it was not scared and will fight it out. The agency has not yet made an official statement before the media.“If anyone has committed any wrong, then the law will take its course. Those who are culprits should be punished. No one should try to politicise the matter,” BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/cannot-scare-us-cm-mamata-hits-back-101613951578603.html
22-02-2021||Mumbai||Will review the need for fresh lockdown after 8 days: Uddhav||Warning people over the surge in Covid-19 cases and a looming second wave in the state, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said on Sunday that the government will review the need for a fresh lockdown after eight days.The CM, however, announced a ban on religious, social, political programmes in the state starting Monday and empowered the local administration to impose curbs.Addressing the state virtually, the CM said: “It will be known in next 8-15 days whether it is a second wave. We had been struggling to face it during the first wave because of the poor health infrastructure, but it will be worse if witnessed another peak of the cases. I am worried about the severity of the second wave if it occurs in the state.”Also Read | Second Covid-19 wave nearing, lockdown decision in citizens’ hands: UddhavThackeray added that he was leaving the decision about another lockdown to the people of Maharashtra. “I am asking you whether you want the curbs to be imposed again. The simple mantra is wear mask, follow discipline and avoid lockdown. We will review the situation again in next eight days and decide on the lockdown,” he said.The state recorded 6,971 new infections on Sunday, highest one-day spike in last 121 days since October 23, when the state clocked 7,347 cases. The state’s tally reached 2,100,884, while toll was pushed to 51,799 with 35 new deaths. Many districts such as Amravati, Yavatmal, Akola, Nashik, Pune imposed stricter curbs in the wake of the rising cases over last two weeks.“In districts like Amravati the cases have mounted to the level they were during the peak of the pandemic. I have instructed the district administration from Amravati and other Vidarbha districts to take decision about the lockdown at their level... The political, religious, social gatherings and the protests that lead to the crowding will be banned in the state from tomorrow [Monday]. I have requested the central government during our meeting with NITI Aayog to plan for the staggered working hours of the offices...,” the CM said.Pune schools, colleges to remain shut till Feb 28In view of a spike in Covid-19 cases in Pune, the district administration has decided to enforce restrictions on movement of people from 11 pm to 6 am for non-essential activities, a senior official said on Sunday. Schools, colleges and private coaching classes will remain closed till February 28, while hotels and restaurants will have to shut their establishments by 11 pm, Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao said.On Saturday, the Pune division reported 998 new cases and nine deaths. The total tally stood at 5,14,319 and the death toll at 11,698, as per official figures.Meanwhile, in wake of a spike in Covid-19 cases in Amravati, a week-long complete lockdown has been announced in the district. “A one-week complete lockdown will remain in force in Amravati district excluding Achalpur city. Only the essential services are permitted to operate,” guardian minister Yashomati Thakur said.With agency inputs||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/will-review-the-need-for-fresh-lockdown-after-8-days-uddhav-101613950759575.html
22-02-2021||Delhi||Six months after proposals, only six names cleared||Days after the Supreme Court urged the Centre to frame a timeline for appointing judges to high courts and the apex court upon receiving recommendations of the collegium, the government has cleared only six of 16 names for high courts despite sitting on the proposals for over six months.The government has cleared appointments of two judges in the Delhi high court and four in the Kerala high court while choosing not to clear some other names that have been pending for more than a year now, HT has learnt through people familiar with the matter.While the government cleared all four names recommended by the collegium for appointments to the Kerala high court, it has approved only two of six names in case of the Delhi high court. The notifications for the appointment of these six judges are expected to be issued on Monday.Also Read | All Delhi High Court benches to resume physical hearing daily from March 15The SC collegium comprises the Chief Justice of India and the two most senior judges of the apex court in matters of appointment and transfer of high court judges.The government had 16 names pending approval after the collegium’s recommendation. Even as it decided to clear the names sent in August 2020, it did not take any decision on the five names for the Calcutta high court, pending since July 2019, and one name for the Jammu and Kashmir high court, pending since October 2019.The law ministry did not respond to queries about these pending names till the time of going to press.According to people in the know, the government has cleared the names of advocates Jasmeet Singh and Amit Bansal as judges in the Delhi high court while four other names recommended by the collegium in August 2020 have been kept pending. The other four lawyers yet to be cleared for appointment are Tara Vitasta Ganju, Anish Dayal, Amit Sharma and Mini Pushkarna.Of the total sanctioned strength of 60, Delhi high court currently has a vacancy of 31 judges which will come down to 29 once the notifications are issued.The government has also chosen to segregate the names sent together by the collegium despite disapproval of this practice by justice RM Lodha, who as CJI in July 2014 had written a letter to Union law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad, stating that the government should not adopt such “unilateral segregation” in the future.Justice Lodha sent this missive after the NDA government segregated former solicitor general Gopal Subramanium from the panel of four names recommended for appointment as Supreme Court judges by the collegium.All the four names for the Kerala high court have been cleared by the government. Principal sessions judges Kauser Edappagath of Ernakulam and K Babu of Thiruvananthapuram and lawyers Ziyad Rahman and Murali Purushothaman will now be appointed as judges in the Kerala high court.These recommendations have also been cleared by the government after six months. Currently, there are 37 judges against the sanctioned strength of 47 in the Kerala high court. Seven judges will retire this year. There are four other names pending for appointment to the Kerala high court with the Supreme Court collegium.HT reported earlier this month that currently there are 188 names in contemplation for appointment as high court judges as against a staggering vacancy of 419 judges -- more than a third of the total positions. Of the 188 names being considered, 112 are pending with the government, with the oldest recommendations for appointment going back to July 2019.Hearing a petition on a related issue on January 27, the bench, which included CJI SA Bobde and justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Surya Kant, called it a “matter of great concern” that the collegium had not heard from the government for months.The bench said a proposal will get stuck without knowing the reason and asked the government to consider laying down a timeline for the executive to clear appointments in the higher judiciary, with every stage of appointment marked by a definite time period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/six-months-after-proposals-only-six-names-cleared-101613949691114.html
22-02-2021||Delhi||First high dam on Yamuna may pose flood risk to city: Experts||The Chamoli flash floods of February 7 have brought the spotlight back on the first high dam on the Yamuna scheduled to come up at Lakhwar in Dehradun and Tehri in Uttarakhand after the Union environment ministry’s expert appraisal committee recommended the 300MW Lakhwar Multipurpose Project for environmental clearance in its December 2 meeting last year.The move has reignited a three-decade old worry among environmentalists who have been flagging the project as a potential risk for the national capital.River activists have warned that the project could push Delhi to water scarcity, depletion of groundwater levels and major flooding and loss in case of a disaster.Also Read | Jewar airport: Service lane parallel to Yamuna E-way likely to be ready by March-end, says YeidaThe Lakhwar Multipurpose Project is expected to provide 19.03 MCM (million cubic metres) of drinking water to Delhi, according to the project details on the environment ministry’s Parivesh website. It is also likely to provide irrigation on 33,780 hectares and water for domestic and industrial use — 78.83 MCM to neighbouring states, including Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Rajasthan, Himachal Pradesh and Delhi.Watch: First high dam on Yamuna raises environmental concernsOver 50% of the land affected by the proposed project is forest land. Clearance was first issued to Lakhwar and Vyasi, which together make the Lakhwar Vyasi Multipurpose project, by the environment ministry in 1987. Work was started by UP’s department of irrigation and tunnels; an underground powerhouse was completed by 1992. After the formation of Uttarakhand, the project was handed over to NHPC and bifurcated into two parts -- Lakhwar MPP (300 MW) with Katapathar Barrage and Vyasi hydroelectric project (120MW).After environmentalists moved the National Green Tribunal on the lack of environmental appraisal of the project, the tribunal on January 10, 2019 directed the expert appraisal committee to appraise the project afresh under the environment impact assessment notification 2006.Dam authorities brushed aside the concerns raised by environmentalists.“Yes, it’s the biggest high dam on the Yamuna with the highest storage capacity. But all these fears are baseless. We have conducted very detailed studies on environmental implications. Also, locals are waiting desperately for the dam. It’s a major developmental project for this region,” said a senior official of the Uttarakhand Jal Vidyut Nigam Limited who did not wish to be named.Manoj Mishra, convener of the Yamuna Jiye Abhiyan, said the Lakhwar dam is an “invitation to trouble” for Delhi. Located right on the Yamuna and being the first city downstream, the Capital will be the first to be impacted in case of anything going wrong with the dam.“Unlike cities such as Panipat, Sonepat, Karnal and Yamunanagar, which also fall along the route of the Yamuna, Delhi is right on the river. If the Lakhwar dam breaks or if there is any disaster there, Delhi has had it. The first to be submerged will be east Delhi and parts of south Delhi. Other cities are still a few kilometres away from the river, but Delhi will not even have the time to respond,” Mishra said.The proposed height of the dam is 204 metres, which is as tall as a 70-metre building, and the impact of water gushing from such a height will be first faced by Delhi, he added.Mishra said along with facing the risk of a possible disaster, Delhi could also be water starved. During monsoon rains currently, the Yamuna and its aquifers get rejuvenated because there is nothing holding the river back upstream. Since such big dams primarily hold monsoon water, Delhi will be drastically starved of Yamuna’s water.The Delhi Jal Board’s documents show that the Capital currently gets 50 gallons per person per day, which is nearly 200 litres per person per day, much higher than the average in other cities. Delhi’s requirement is around 100 litres per person per day, according to experts. The DJB’s water management plans are also centred on making the city self-sufficient in its water needs.“Compared to the Alaknanda and Bhagirathi the sediment load and volumes are much lower in the Yamuna and this dam is quite downstream. It is also fed by a number of glaciers. We have to see what kinds of checks they have against flooding or disasters,” said Navin Juyal, a retired geologist from the Physical Research Laboratory in Ahmedabad.Residents of Lohari village along the Yamuna are both happy that the project may finally take off after over 30 years and the locals may benefit from compensation, rehabilitation and jobs but they are also anxious about what this could mean for the river. “We are very happy that the dam is coming. This is because it will bring livelihood opportunities to us. There are so many young boys here who have no jobs. Residents have been waiting for the project to take off for over 30 years now. We were children then,” said Ramesh Chauhan, a resident of Lohari. At the same time, the Yamuna is of enormous spiritual and religious significance to people here.“The Yamuna is our mother. Our life is linked to the river. Whenever water levels have risen, we have prayed to the Yamuna and she has saved us from disaster. Even in 2013, during the floods, water levels had risen dangerously, so we went to the temple on the Yamuna banks and prayed for hours. All the villagers were there. We believe that we were saved from being washed away because of our faith in the river,” said Tikam Singh, another resident.One of the risks associated with dams is a break that may result in a flood wave up to tens of metres high, travelling along a valley at high speeds.The impact of such a wave on developed areas can be sufficient to completely destroy infrastructure, according to documents on the Parivesh website.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/first-high-dam-on-yamuna-may-pose-flood-risk-to-city-experts-101613948432803.html
22-02-2021||Delhi||FYUP may return to DU colleges this year||The Delhi University (DU) may reintroduce its four-year undergraduate (UG) programmes from the upcoming academic session of 2021-22, officials said on Sunday.The programme will return as a part of the National Education Policy (NEP) 2020. A committee that was constituted last year to formulate the guidelines for the implementation of the policy in DU has already submitted its recommendations on the structure of bachelors courses under the four-year model.The university had once before in 2014 introduced the Four-Year Undergraduate Programme (FYUP). It, however, was scrapped by the government after protests by students and teachers the same year.According to the proposed structure of UG programmes submitted by the committee — that is known as the National Education Policy 2020 Implementation Committee (NIC) — students in DU will now get the option of pursuing three-year honours or four-year honours in a discipline or a four-year honours in a discipline with research.DU Vice-Chancellor (acting) PC Joshi said that the recommendations will now be sent to the university’s statutory bodies — academic council (AC) and executive council (EC) — for their approval.“The university has extensively worked on it in the last 6-7 months and we are ready to implement it now. We are only waiting to get nods from the statutory bodies. I don’t think there will be an issue in the implementation, since we are not replacing anything. We are only adding on to the existing. It’s in fact in sync with what we are already running,” he said.When asked about the necessity of introduction of fourr-year programme, Joshi said, “The University will introduce four year courses following the NEP recommendations. It’s going to be good for students since it’s giving more opportunities to them. Besides, the exit options are good for students from marginalised background who would want to discontinue studies temporarily due to their circumstances.”Under the new programme, students will get multiple exit options. For instance, they can exit after one year and get a certificate, after two years they will get a diploma and after three years they will be awarded an honours degree. These exit options have also been advocated by the NEP, 2020.In the fourth year of the program, the students can choose between pursuing the Bachelors of Arts / Science / Commerce (Honours) in Discipline or the Bachelors of Arts / Science / Commerce (Honours) in Discipline with Research. “In case a student chooses the first option, she would be required to study four generic elective (minors) papers in the fourth year. The student shall also study two discipline specific elective papers. He/ she would be required to complete a research dissertation on her major discipline of study, and an inter-disciplinary research dissertation on her major and minor disciplines of study,” the recommendations stated.“In case a student chooses the second option, she would study two generic elective (minors) papers in the fourth year. The student shall also study two discipline specific elective papers. He/ she would need to complete a thesis/internship in the last two semesters,” it added.Under the DU’s existing choice-based credit system, the major disciplines are the subjects in which students are aiming to get degrees, generic elective or minor courses are interdisciplinary subjects they chose along with the majors, and discipline-specific elective papers are extensions of the major subjects.The committee has also recommended changing the names of the existing programme courses such as BA/BCom/ BSc programmes to Honours courses. If implemented, these programmes will be known as the Bachelors of Science (Honours), Bachelors of Arts (Honours) in Humanities and Social Sciences, and Bachelors of Commerce Studies (Honours).It has also proposed the introduction of new subjects in the first three years in addition to the already existing ones. It includes language and literature, social and emotional learning, innovation and entrepreneurship, co-curricular, and ethics and culture, among others.Several EC and AC members said that proper discussion on the recommendations is required before implementation. EC member Seema Das, who was also a member of the NEP Committee, said, “Initially, the NEP committee had proposed to do away with honours courses. They decided to accommodated this after my strong objections and retained all honours degree courses and also upgraded existing programme courses into honours courses. As per the assurance, these recommendations shall only be implemented after proper discussion in the statutory bodies.”Principals of several DU colleges said that they will have to upgrade their infrastructure in order to accommodate students for four-years. “The colleges still have another three years to plan and make whatever changes we will require once students enter their fourth-year,” said Manoj Sinha, secretary of Delhi University Principal Association (DUPA) and principal of Aryabhatta College.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/fyup-may-return-to-du-colleges-this-year-101613947776458.html
22-02-2021||Other||Puducherry test today; two ruling MLAs resign||Two more MLAs of the Congress-led ruling combine resigned from the Puducherry assembly on Sunday, a day before a floor test, in a jolt to chief minister V Narayanasamy’s government as it stood at a reduced strength of 12 MLAs in the 33-member House.Congress MLA K Lakshminarayanan and Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) legislator Venkatesan announced their resignations on Sunday, while the Opposition’s strength stood at 14. The assembly now has seven vacancies, resulting in an effective strength of 26. The simple majority figure is 14 after the Sunday’s resignations.Four Congress MLAs – including former ministers A Namassivayam and Malladi Krishna Rao – quit earlier, while another party legislator was disqualified for anti-party activities last year.Also Read | Congress govt in Puducherry faces exit as 2 more MLAs quit ahead of floor testIn the 33-member assembly, 30 are elected seats and three are nominated members belonging to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). The Congress currently has nine MLAs. These include assembly speaker SP Sivakolundhi, who is not allowed to vote unless there is a tie.The Congress has the support of two DMK MLAs and an independent MLA from Mahe. The Opposition has seven MLAs from the All Indian NR Congress, led by former chief minister N Rangasamy, and four from the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK). It also includes the BJP’s nominated members, who are allowed to vote.Telangana governor Tamilisai Soundararajan, who was handed additional charge of Puducherry on Tuesday last week, directed Narayanasamy on Thursday to prove majority by ordering a floor test scheduled for February 22. Lieutenant governor Kiran Bedi was replaced by Soundararajan on Tuesday, hours after a Congress MLA’s resignation.The resignations of two more MLAs came on a day the ruling alliance’s members met the chief minister to discuss the future course of action. The sitting MLAs will also meet for an hour on Monday. “We have to take a decision on whether to attend the trust vote or submit our resignation to the Lieutenant Governor (L-G),” said a Puducherry Congress leader, asking not to be named.Lieutenant governor Soundararajan has asked the ruling alliance to prove its majority by 5pm. The voting will take place by a show of hands. Even if all ruling MLAs are present, the Congress-led government will fall short of the simple majority mark, with 11 votes. “Elections are less than two months away so we will work towards the elections where people will give us the majority,” a senior Congress leader said on condition of anonymity. A senior Puducherry BJP leader said that they may not stake claim to form the government. “In a week, poll dates will be announced so what is the point of running a government for about 60 days?” the BJP leader said. President’s Rule seems imminent in that scenario.Lakshminarayanan resigned from his post as MLA and quit the Congress, stating that he was disrespected in the party and the Opposition was welcoming him. “The government is not failing because of my resignation. It has already lost its majority,” he told reporters on Sunday.The DMK’s Venkatesan also submitted his resignation to the Speaker, saying he was dissatisfied with the government. “The BJP has used muscle and money power and threatened the MLAs,” said Puducherry Pradesh Congress Committee president AV Subramanian.After holding consultations with the Congress-led alliance, chief minister Narayanasamy told reporters that he will announce his decision on the floor of the House, when the assembly convenes at 10am on Monday. “We discussed the strategy to be adopted with alliance parties in the legislative assembly. Several suggestions were given by ministers, MLAs, MP and the deputy speaker. Finally, we decided that we will disclose our strategy on the floor of the house when it convenes.”Political analysts say that the Congress could turn this crisis into an emotive issue. “It’s clear that Narayanasamy won’t be able to win the trust vote so he may use the floor test to highlight his achievements and his victimisation for the ensuing election similar to what VP Singh (former Prime Minister from 1989 to 1990 until he lost the vote of no-confidence) did when the BJP pulled out its support,” said political commentator Raveendran Duraisamy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/puducherry-test-today-two-ruling-mlas-resign-101613942002514.html
22-02-2021||Chandigarh||BKU Ugrahan appeals to Punjab farmers to reach Delhi border in large numbers for February 27 rally||Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta-Ugrahan) president Joginder Singh Ugrahan on Sunday appealed to the farmers and farm labourers from Punjab to reach the Delhi borders in large numbers for the February 27 rally against the Centre’s agriculture laws. Addressing a rally organised by the farmer union in the grain market of Barnala town, the BKU leader said the ongoing farmers’ agitation is not just against the Narendra Modi-led government at the Centre but also the World Trade Organisation (WTO) and the International Monetary Fund (IMF). “The agitation came back on track after the Red Fort incident on January 26, in which the Centre in connivance with some people tried to give a communal colour to the farmers’ struggle. We have conveyed the people that it is not a fight of a particular religion but the battle of all citizens of the country. After the Delhi incident, the people of Haryana and Uttar Pradesh raised questions over the movement and distanced themselves from the protest. But we managed the situation and saved the struggle from communal forces,” said Ugrahan.Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) Balbir Singh Rajewal said, “The Delhi Police have registered several cases against farmers. There is no need to appear before the police if they send you notices. Residents should oppose the police if they conduct raids in villages.”Ruldu Singh Mansa, a leader of the Punjab Kissan Union, which is part of the SKM said the people of Punjab should boycott the BJP workers in the state. “We will not make any compromise against the farmers interests. The struggle will be fought until the repeal of three laws,” he added.During the rally, appeals were also made to reach Delhi on February 23 to mark the birth anniversary of Pagri Sambhal Jatta movement leader and Shaheed Bhagat Singh’s uncle Ajit Singh as well as on the Women’s Day on March 8. People from all walks of life, including intellectuals, artists, unemployed youths and government employees joined hands with the farmers and labourers during the rally.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bku-ugrahan-appeals-to-punjab-farmers-to-reach-delhi-border-in-large-numbers-for-february-27-rally-101613937320169.html
22-02-2021||Chandigarh||Austria refugee home saved by Punjab-origin man||The white paint has not yet dried, but as Sukhdeep Singh walks through the house where he used to live in the Austrian town of Baden, he is already picturing the refugees who -- thanks to him -- will soon be calling it home. It was where he himself lived after he left his native Punjab region of India as a teenager to start a new life in Europe. When the Christian NGO that previously ran the site as a home for unaccompanied migrant children said it was impossible to continue running it, Singh stepped in to save it from being sold off to developers. “I didn’t want anyone to buy it who had no connection to the house and its history,” says Singh, now married with three small children. Singh’s connection to the house and its founder is a deep one. The story begins with his arduous journey through Russia and Eastern Europe before arriving in Austria and at the Laura Gatner house, a shelter for about 50 unaccompanied youths. “To be honest, my first impression was horrible,” Singh recalls. On the top floor of the three storey house, he points at one corner of a 12-metre-square room to the other. “Here was my bed, and here was the second bed,” he says of the space he shared with a teen from Afghanistan. But over the six years he spent here, he learned to speak the language, made friends and played football. The nondescript house in an industrial area came to symbolise perseverance and benevolence for Singh. HOLOCAUST MEMORIES Key to Singh’s fond memories of the home is his bond with Jewish actor and writer Otto Tausig, who was key in setting up the house after his own experience of being forced into exile by the Nazis. Tausig dedicated the latter half of his life to charity. After raising the funds to buy the house -- including a large personal donation -- Tausig gifted it to Protestant charity Diakonie for use as a shelter for youths. The house is named after Tausig’s grandmother, Laura Gatner, who died in a Nazi concentration camp. Social workers, teachers and psychologists here helped Singh understand the local culture and master the language. He says he was treated with respect, and graduated from technical high school. And Tausig became something of a mentor to him personally. When Singh went on to a degree at the Technical University, it was Tausig who sponsored him. NO LONGER WELCOME Singh, now in his mid-30s and a project manager at multinational Siemens, learned from an old friend that the building he’d called home was to be sold. Diakonie says the decision was taken due to “insufficient referrals” of residents coming from the regional authorities in Lower Austria. As the EU has fortified its borders in recent years, the rate of new arrivals has plummeted. The number of “unaccompanied underaged asylum-seekers” went from 8,300 in 2015 to just 390 three years later. At the same time, Chancellor Sebastian Kurz has prided himself on his tough anti-migration stances, winning many voters from the far-right Freedom Party (FPOe) in the process. “The welcome I received, it is not the same anymore,” Singh says. The new Laura Gatner house, however, will be an antidote, with red, blue and yellow mosaic tiles spelling her name still gracing the hallways. Though most of the 16 apartments will have to be rented out at a profit to pay off the mortgage, at least four will be reserved for asylum-seeker families -- who will not be expected to pay a set rent. A young mother and her 12-year-old daughter, currently in a government-run asylum centre, will be among the first residents. “Can you imagine the girl in this centre, where she can’t even study?” Singh says. The apartment for the two of them will include a separate space for the girl to study. A further three families are expected to find a home here when construction is finished in March, the same month Singh arrived here in 2003. Singh is proud of his achievements, and of carrying on Tausig’s legacy. “If you look for a role model, don’t look towards those who are rich, who have a lot of money,” he says. “Look to those who have a big heart.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/austria-refugee-home-saved-by-punjab-origin-man-101613936838489.html
22-02-2021||Chandigarh||Highlight Centre’s denial of permission to jatha to Nankana Sahib, Akal Takht tells Sikhs||The Akal Takht on Sunday issued an edict to the Sikh community directing it to organise functions across the world for a month and highlight the denial of permission to a jatha from going to Pakistan to attend the centenary event of the Nankana Sahib massacre at the birthplace of Sikhism founder Guru Nanak. The edict was read out by Akal Takht acting jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh during a brief function at the temporal seat to pay tributes to those killed in the massacre. He also fixed responsibilities of the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC), Delhi Singh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC), other gurdwara bodies and Sikh organisations for the purpose. “The community members must be told about the Centre’s excesses of not permitting the jatha from going to Nankana Sahib”, he said.Earlier, during a function organised by the SGPC at Gurdaspur district’s Godharpur village, the jathedar said, “The community will remember the government’s move while remembering the martyrs of this massacre every year.”“When the Nankana Sahib massacre took place, a hukamnama (decree) was issued from the Akal Takht asking the community to organise congregations everywhere wearing black turbans in protest against the British government that supported the killers. The government of the day has made the Sikhs realise the same pain they experienced 100 years ago when they heard the news of the massacre,” he added. He said, “BJP-led central government stopped Sikhs from proceeding to Nankana Sahib in the same manner as the British stopped a jatha led by Kartar Singh Jhabbar that went to free the shrine from the control of the mahants.” He said the Centre denied permission to the jatha as it wanted the community to call back its members protesting at the Delhi borders against the three farm laws. “This will never happen and we shall not bow down even if the government refuses permission to Sikh jathas every year,” he added.He also condemned the politics of polarisation in the country. “Minorities like Sikhs and Muslims could be persecuted in future. The ruling party at the Centre is spreading hate in the minds of majority community against the minorities to garner votes. This type of politics is neither good for the government nor for the country. We should unite and become powerful politically to thwart this,” he said.Sukhbir questions CM’s silence on issueAddressing the gathering, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal questioned the “silence” of Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh over denial of the permission to the Sikh jatha. “Even few days back, some people were granted permission to visit Pakistan at the instance of the CM. Why he has not taken up the issue of the need to accord permission to the jatha with the Centre?” he asked.Jagir Kaur apologises for SGPC’s ‘past mistakes’SGPC president Jagir Kaur apologised to the community for the mistakes of the gurdwara body functionaries that “they committed in the past” and urged the Sikhs to unite for a common cause. She also announced that the SGPC would observe year-long events in various institutes and construct a Guru Ka Langar hall in remembrance of Mata Inderjit Kaur and a library in memory of the martyrs of Nankana Sahib in their villages.Cong holds separate function A separate function was organised by the ruling Congress at Dharowali village near Dera Baba Nanak to remember those killed in the Nankana Sahib massacre. The event was organised with the efforts of state jails and cooperation minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa,Cabinet minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, all the party MLAs from Gurdaspur district and other leaders attended the function.Pak minister addresses PSGPC devotees Pakistan’s federal minister for narcotics control and local member of national assembly Brig Ijaz Ahmad Shah (retd) addressed the devotees during an event organised by the Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (PSGPC) in collaboration with Evacuee Trust Property Board (ETPB) at Nankana Sahib, the birthplace of Guru Nanak, to mark centenary of Nankana Sahib massacre. Akal Takht acting jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh and Takht Kesgarh Sahib jathedar Giani Raghbir Singh also addressed the devotees, who came from various parts of Pakistan, on Zoom. Controversial Sikh leader and former member of the PSGPC Gopal Singh Chawla was also given time to speak on the dais.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/highlight-centre-s-denial-of-permission-to-jatha-to-nankana-sahib-akal-takht-tells-sikhs-101613936540895.html
22-02-2021||Other||The wait to adopt a child got longer amid pandemic||The ongoing pandemic has left prospective parents (PPs), hoping to adopt a child, in uncertainty. The outbreak of the pandemic in March had brought the adoption process to a standstill for several reasons – lack of information, closure of courts and fear of contracting the infection. These reasons refrained PPs from approaching adoption centres. After being halted for April and May 2020 owing to the Covid-19 outbreak, the process of adoptions – considered lengthy and tedious – restarted in June. Since then, 437 children have been adopted domestically and internationally in the state. Of these 378 were adopted by domestic applicants, while 59 children were adopted by international applicants between June and December last year, data provided by the State Adoption Resource Agency (SARA) stated. During the financial year 2019-20, 539 children were adopted domestically, while 69 were adopted internationally in Maharashtra. “Even a day matters after waiting for years” Amidst all the outbreak, the waiting period for PPs who were on the verge of getting a child, after already waiting for years, got further extended. In December 2017, 36-year-old Bengaluru resident Digangana Mukherjee registered with the Central Adoption Resource Authority (CARA) to adopt a child. After waiting for two years and seven months, the Mukherjees finally adopted their daughter Upolobdhi (meaning realisation) in July 2020, but not without going through trying times and difficult situations owing to the pandemic, which had stretched their waiting period by four months. The couple were almost on the verge of getting a match for a baby in the first week of April 2020. But when the national lockdown was declared on March 25, they were left with no other choice but to wait. “It may sound that four months is a small period of time. But after waiting for years, even one day matters,” said Mukherjee. Finally, in the first week of July, they got their match from an adoption centre in Aurangabad. But due to the sudden spike in Covid-19 cases in Bengaluru, a complete lockdown was declared in the city from July 14 for a week. “We needed to send notarised documents to the agency, but everything was closed due to the lockdown. My husband had to hunt for an advocate and begged him to sign the documents,” she recollected. Their struggle did not end there. As the couple could not find a direct flight amid the lockdown restrictions, the couple left their four-year-old biological son with their close friend during the travel. The duo travelled for 20 hours in their private vehicle and reached Aurangabad via Pune. On July 28, the couple managed to reach the adoption centre where they met their daughter for the first time. The next day, they appeared at the district court for formalities, following which they decided to rest at a hotel for a day before heading back on July 30. However, the adoption centre did not allow the couple to take their five-month-old baby to a hotel out of fear of contracting Covid-19. “So after completing the court formalities in the afternoon, we rested for three hours at the hotel. By 5pm, we reached the adoption centre and left for Bengaluru with our daughter. We drove the entire night. When one has to go through such hurdles after waiting for years, it does leave a bitter taste in the mouth,” said Mukherjee. Similar to Mukherjee’s tale is the one of a 37-year-old government employee from Khar who waited for nine months to adopt his nephew. In 2017, the boy, now aged seven, lost both his parents in a car accident, and was living with his paternal uncle since then. In 2018, the uncle applied to CARA for the adoption process, but it went haywire due to some technical issues. In January 2020, through a new lawyer, they filed a petition at Bombay high court (HC) for ‘within family’ adoption. It generally takes two-three months for the completion of the process, but the pandemic stretched their waiting period for almost nine months. “Even for the ‘within family’ criteria, the adoption process is an extremely strenuous. Though it was proven that I am the boy’s paternal uncle, I was asked to submit several notarised documents. Just when we were about to get the process done in March, the pandemic hit,” he said. On January 14, 2021, the court approved the adoption petition. PPs can’t meet the children To adopt a child, a person needs to apply on CARA, following which the applicant’s financial stability, health conditions, among others, undergo scrutiny. A waiting number is handed out to acquire a match as per their requirement which takes a minimum of two years. Once PPs approve the profile of a shortlisted child, they are allowed to meet the child. However, they have the right to refuse adopting the child after a face-to-face interaction. “This is the most crucial part of the adoption process. The eye and skin contact helps to develop a bond with the child,” said Siddharth Jagusthe, an advocate who also handles adoption cases in HC. But during the beginning of the pandemic, CARA instructed SARAs to prohibit PPs from visiting the children for their safety. This dampened the spirit of many parents who waited for years to see a child. “In the beginning of 2020, our centre had six requests for domestic adoption. But when the pandemic broke out, we had to follow the guidelines and did not allow PPs to meet the shortlisted children to maintain social distance. Later, four of the applicants withdrew their forms,” said Rahul Jadhav, in-charge of Adharashram adoption centre, Nashik. Following this new rule, adoption centres started setting up virtual meetings with PPs where children would try to connect with the families through video calls. In fact, Mukherjee decided to adopt her daughter after conducting several virtual interactions with her. However, for some parents it was quite an emotionally challenging phase as they craved for the human touch. A 46-year-old Rajasthan resident had to wait for two years and three months before getting a call to see a child for adoption in Mumbai on March 18. But before they couple could reach the adoption centre, the national lockdown was declared. “The first lockdown was only for 21 days so we decided to wait. But then it got extended for an unknown period. We could see the child only on video calls arranged by the counsellors. But we would grow restless as I wanted to hug and kiss the girl,” she said. Finally, in October, the family met the girl. Currently, they have filed an adoption petition in the district court to adopt the child. International adoptions the most hit Data shared by SARA shows that between 2015-2016 and 2020 (till December), 776 children have been adopted internationally from the state. Parents from the US and Europe adopt the highest number of children. However, due to the outbreak, the adoption centres as well as the judges refused to give permission for adoption until the pandemic curve flattened. For instance, Kanjurmarg-based Vatsalya Trust did not record any international adoption last year since March. It was only in January 2021 that the court granted the approval to adopt two children by parents settled in the US and Italy. Similarly, the Adharashram centre recorded the first two international adoptions from the US last month, since March 2020. “Before approving an international adoption petition for parents residing in the US – which has the highest number of Covid-19 cases – judges also have to consider the safety of a child in this uncertain situation. This is for the safety of the child and no one can be blamed for it,” said Rakesh Kapoor, one of the most prominent adoption lawyers in the city. Due to the stringent rules of CARA, international adoption is gradually losing its shine. For instance, in 2015-2016, 183 children from the state were adopted by parents from other countries, which dropped to 69 in 2019-20. Experts also blame it on fewer children available for adoption. Data shows that 3,300 Indian couples and 80 foreign couples are on the waitlist for adoption. “There are 44 children at the centre, but only nine of them are up for adoption. Most domestic parents demand children in the age bracket of less than two years, which further narrows down the availability of children for adoption,” said Dr Vilas Ainapure, president, Vatsalya Trust, Mumbai. In a bid to encourage adoption of specially-abled children, CARA has instructed SARAs to allow international parents to adopt only children with special needs such as those suffering from congenital heart defects or learning disabilities, among others. “Indian parents generally don’t want to adopt such children. However, we have seen that foreign parents are quite welcoming in this matter. If we could remove this stringent rule, international adoptions could have increased. But at present, our priority is domestic adoption,” said a programme coordinator at SARA. ‘Cases fast tracked now’Adoption lawyers and officers from the women and child development (WCD) department claim that Maharashtra is doing far better than other states in the adoption process. “In August 2020, after the initial relaxation of the lockdown, the Bombay high court ordered to fasten the adoption processes. This helped us fast track the cases that were pending. Many other states refused to hear adoption petitions and adjourned them for an uncertain period. The court should be appreciated for it which brought smiles on parents’ faces,” said Kapoor. Now, adoption centres are getting many PPs from neighbouring states for the process. “Considering the pleas of parents, CARA in December permitted to start the face-to-face interaction again by maintaining social distance,” said Dr Ainapure. Kapoor said that only one adoption case from last year’s pending cases are left, with all others been resolved by December 2020. Last week, the Mukherjees again visited Aurangabad to appear at the district court to get the final approval stamp of their adoption. But this time, they did not have to struggle like they did in July 2020. “The roads and shops opened up. There were more people at the court. It seemed like good old pre-pandemic days,” said Mukherjee. Six months down the line from the time of her adoption, she appreciates her four-month wait which helped her to coincidentally meet her daughter. “In March, my daughter was only a month old. But as per the rules, only children above the age of two-and-a-half months are given for adoption. So, if we had undergone adoption in March, I would have gotten another baby, not her. Now I think, we were destined to wait to meet my daughter after those four months,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/the-wait-to-adopt-a-child-got-longer-amid-pandemic-101613936178297.html
22-02-2021||Other||Mumbai civic body cracks down on marriage halls, hotels; stringent norms likely||Amid a spike in the number of Covid-19 cases in the city in a week, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has swung into action and raided several establishments over the weekend. With cases almost doubling in a week, the civic body is expected to impose more curbs in the city after a review meeting on Monday. Continuing its upward Covid-19 graph on Sunday, Mumbai reported 921 new infections – its sharpest single-day spike since November 29 when 940 cases were recorded. As on Sunday, Mumbai’s caseload stands at 319,128, while the toll has reached 11,446. The recovery rate is 94.30% with 300,959 recoveries and fatality rate is 3.58%. There are 5,859 active cases in the city. Since the past one week, the city has been reporting high single-day cases since November 2020, when the city was recording over 1,000 cases daily. The numbers had fallen in December, with the average daily cases hovering between 600 and 700, according to the state’s dashboard. Taking the spike very seriously, BMC got its act together by starting the strict implementation of the lockdown norms. BMC took action against at least four establishments in Bandra and Khar and seven establishments, including marriage halls, in Dadar and Mahim for violating Covid-19 norms. A first information report (FIR) has been filed against a Bandra cafe for overcrowding and violating Covid-19 norms. The cafe owner was also asked to pay a fine of ₹50,000. BMC also filed a police complaint against four people for escaping the seven-day mandatory hotel quarantine after returning from Dubai. In a statement, BMC said it collected over Rs32-lakh fines from citizens for not wearing a mask at hotels, night clubs, bars and marriage halls. Mayor Kishori Pednekar warned that Covid-19 rules would be further tightened if citizens continue violating the norms. “I’m not saying we will again impose a lockdown. But stricter norms during the unlocking will be imposed if citizens are found violating Covid-19 norms. We will be cautious when it comes to unlocking of schools and colleges, and their reopening might be on hold for a few more days. We’ll take a final call on the Covid-19 situation in Mumbai on Monday during a review meeting with chief minister Uddhav Thackerayji,” said Pednekar on Sunday. It is likely that a decision over putting a hold on reopening of schools and colleges in the wake of an increase in Covid-19 cases will be taken on Monday. “The final decision on further restrictions will be taken after the review meeting on Monday,” a senior BMC official said. Pednekar appealed to the clean-up marshals to treat the citizens of Mumbai with courtesy and to carry out their responsibilities properly. She made the statement after a video of clean-up marshals misbehaving with citizens while levying fines for not wearing a mask went viral.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mumbai-civic-body-cracks-down-on-marriage-halls-hotels-stringent-norms-likely-101613935518924.html
22-02-2021||Other||Hotel near Mumbai sealed after 21 staffers test positive for Covid-19||The Mira Bhayander Municipal Corporation (MBMC) sealed a hotel till March 4 after 21 of its staffers tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday. Efforts are now on to trace the guests and customers who had come in contact with the staffers.The hotel is located in Versova area on Ghodbunder Road, Kashimira, and witnesses many guests from Gujarat and nearby areas. MBMC ward officer Swapnil Sawant said, “Our medical team immediately launched an aggressive testing drive in all hotels, bars, dhabas, restaurants and other eateries located in the vicinity of the hotel after 21 staffers were found positive for Covid-19, following which two eateries were sealed.”While those detected positive have been moved to healthcare facilities for treatment, others are kept in quarantine and the testing drive is on, said Sawant. After the figures had dipped, the civic body has recorded 112 cases last week, with 65 cases on Saturday alone. The caseload has reached 26,730, of which 25,544 patients have recovered, said Sawant. While no deaths have been reported in this week, the total toll in Mira-Bhayander stands at 801 till Saturday. “We have appealed to citizens to follow regular sanitisation, wear masks and maintaining social distancing. MBMC has further urged people to get themselves tested even if they develop the slightest symptoms of the virus,” said Sawant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hotel-near-mumbai-sealed-after-21-staffers-test-positive-for-covid19-101613934978244.html
22-02-2021||Other||Mumbai civic body yet to receive guidelines for Phase 3 of Covid-19 vaccination drive||Considering the sudden spike in the number of new Covid-19 cases, doctors are pushing for commencement of the third phase of the mass immunisation programme. Citizens aged above 50 are most vulnerable to contracting Covid-19 owing to their underlying health conditions. Now, as there is a growing speculation that the city might be heading to the second wave of the pandemic like Europe, doctors are suggesting the start of the third phase at the earliest to improve the immunity of the elderly population. However, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) cannot start the third phase without the nod of the central government. Civic officials also claim that they are yet to receive guidelines for the third phase – expected to begin from the first week of March. “When we started the first two phases of the inoculation, the Centre had given us guidelines on who the healthcare and frontline workers are, who should be administered the jab as well as the criteria for their health check-ups. But we haven’t received any such guidelines for the third phase yet,” said a senior civic official. In the first week of February, Union health minister Harsh Vardhan stated in Lok Sabha that the third phase of Covid-19 vaccination is likely to commence in March and will cover 270 million crore people aged 50 years and above as well as those with comorbidities. As HT had reported earlier, in a meeting held with the civic officials last week, the state Covid-19 task force officers emphasised on the need for starting the third phase. “It generally takes over two weeks after the first shot to develop antibodies to fight the virus. Thus, the sooner we start the mass immunisation process, the faster we can stop its infection rate among senior citizens,” said Dr Gautam Bhansali, consultant physician at Bombay Hospital who was part of the meeting. BMC claims that during the door-to-door survey under the ‘My Family, My Responsibility’ campaign, it has recorded the details of citizens with comorbidities such as tuberculosis (TB), hypertension, cardiac ailments, among others. But the civic officials are unaware on how to use the data for the third phase of vaccination. “A person may have more than one comorbidity, such as TB along with hypertension. But we don’t have that bifurcation. Also, a large number of patients go to private hospitals for treatment, so we don’t even have that data for cross verification,” said the officer. The civic body fears that lack of clarity may lead to further confusion and dampen the vaccination process in the third phase. “The centralised Co-WIN app is functioning better, but it still has a few glitches. To start the vaccination process for over 3 million public, we need better guidance and clearer instructions from the central government,” said another civic official, who is working on the mass vaccination process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mumbai-civic-body-yet-to-receive-guidelines-for-phase-3-of-covid-19-vaccination-drive-101613934438105.html
22-02-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra schools seek increase in internal component for Class 10 board exams||Worried that schools in the city will not be allowed to reopen soon due to the rising number of Covid-19 cases, schools are now requesting the state education department to reduce the weightage of Class 10 board exams for this year.In the last few days, many teachers and principals have requested the department to give 50% weightage to internal exams and the remaining 50% to the written board exams. “Students have very little time to prepare for the board exams now. They need the practice to write exams and require face-to-face classes if they have to write the exams. Since schools are still closed for physical classes, the government must consider changing the evaluation model,” said Rajesh Pandya, vice-president of the Teachers’ Democratic Front.While schools in other parts of the state reopened for Classes 9 to 12, those in the city are still not allowed to reopen pending approval from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). Schools under consulates and embassies in Mumbai have been allowed to reopen from January 18, while other schools remain shut until further notice. Principals said pointed out that city students will suffer due to the delay. “For the entire state, there will be a single board exam with a common syllabus and the same question papers. But students from the city have not got any practice, while those elsewhere have been attending schools for nearly three months now. This is unfair,” said the principal of a civic school in the eastern suburbs.Currently, the written component for the board exams is 80%, and the internal component, which includes orals and practicals, is 20%, in each subject.As per a recent survey conducted by Jaywant Kulkarni, a teacher from Gandhi Bal Mandir high school in Kurla, 83% of students in Mumbai, Thane and Navi Mumbai want internal evaluations to be 50% of the total weightage of the board exams.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-schools-seek-increase-in-internal-component-for-class-10-board-exams-101613934018203.html
22-02-2021||Mumbai||Second Covid-19 wave nearing, lockdown decision in citizens’ hands: Uddhav||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, in a televised address on Sunday, said a second Covid-19 wave is knocking on the state’s doors and warned citizens of another lockdown if protocol is not being followed. Thackeray said a decision will be taken after eight days, even as he announced a ban on all religious, social and political gatherings from today and empowered local administrations to impose area-specific lockdowns if necessary. Thackeray, in his 40-minute speech, said, “It will be known in the next eight-15 days whether it is a second wave. We have been struggling with it [the pandemic] during the first wave because of poor health infrastructure, but it will be worse if another peak of cases happens. I am worried about the severity of a second wave if it hits the state,” he said. Thackeray said he was leaving the decision of another lockdown to the people of Maharashtra.“I am asking you whether you want curbs to be imposed again. The simple mantra is wear a mask, follow discipline and avoid lockdown. We will review the situation again in the next eight days and decide on a lockdown,” he said. Meanwhile, Maharashtra recorded 6,971 new Covid-19 infections, its highest one-day spike in 121 days (since October 23 when the state clocked 7,347 cases). The state’s case tally reached 2,100,884, while the toll went up to 51,799 with 35 more deaths. Many districts such as Amravati, Yavatmal, Akola, Nashik and Pune imposed curbs in the wake of rise in number of cases over the past two weeks. “In districts such as Amravati, the cases have mounted to the level that was there during the peak of the pandemic. I have instructed district administrations from Amravati and other Vidarbha districts to take a decision about the lockdown and other curbs at their level. I also urge political parties to go back to digital platforms for their meetings and gatherings. The political, religious, social gatherings and protests that lead to crowding will be banned in the state from tomorrow [Monday],” he said. He also said that the offices should resort to staggered working hours. “I have requested the central government during our meeting with NITI Aayog to plan for staggered working hours of offices. The offices should stagger their timings by dividing their employees in batches and encouraging them to the work from home. This would help in avoiding crowding in trains and public places,” he said. Thackeray also announced to launch an “I am responsible” drive urging people to keep the virus’ spread at bay by wearing masks, maintaining social distancing and frequently sanitising hands.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/second-covid-19-wave-nearing-lockdown-decision-in-citizens-hands-uddhav-101613933718349.html
22-02-2021||City||7 days after testing positive for Covid-19, Gujarat CM votes in civic polls||The BJP’s showcase city, Ahmedabad, clocked the lowest turnout of over 37 per cent, even as six key municipal corporations held by the ruling party on Sunday saw a little over 40 per cent voting out of the total 1.14 crore voters in the first phase of the local body elections in Gujarat.The local body polls, considered a litmus test for the Vijay Rupani government ahead of 2021 Assembly elections, unlike in the past, have proved to be an intense multi-cornered contest with the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), the AIMIM and the NCP also having thrown the hat in the ring.Not letting a single vote go waste, chief minister Vijay Rupani - whose second RT-PCR report came negative on Sunday after seven days of testing positive for Covid-19 - flew home to Rajkot and cast his vote. He was accompanied by his wife Anjali Rupani at the polling station at Anil Gyan Mandir school on Rajkot’s Raiyya Road.Union home minister Amit Shah was also in Ahmedabad to cast his vote from the Naranpura ward in the city, along with his wife Sonal Shah, son Jay Shah and daughter-in-law Rishita Shah. Shah is likely to attend the inauguration of the Motera cricket stadium, the world’s largest, in Ahmedabad as it hosts its first test match between India and England on February 24.Also read: India, Maldives sign agreements for developing naval harbour, boosting defenceThe polling was held on 575 seats to elect a new body for Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Surat, Rajkot, Bhavnagar and Jamnagar, besides by-polls for two seats in Junagadh Municipal Corporation.There were as many as 2,276 candidates in the fray, including 575 from the BJP, 566 Congress, 470 Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), 91 from the NCP, 21 from the AIMIM and 332 from other parties and 228 Independents.The opposition Congress party, which faces the heat during this election because of the AIMIM contesting 21 seats in Ahmedabad, submitted eight complaints to the state Election Commission, including three for malfunctioning EVMs and two regarding voters being allegedly prevented from voting by local goons.The AAP, which presented itself as an alternative to the BJP and the Congress to the Gujarat voters, alleged that BJP activists its workers and candidates at one polling station each in Rajkot and Ahmedabad.Amit Shah cast his vote at Naranpura Sub Zonal Office in Ahmedabad. He was seen without a mask and later told reporters, “I am confident that today the people of Gujarat will cast their votes in large numbers along with their families and they will re-establish Gujarat as the stronghold of the BJP."Jamnagar registered the highest turnout of 49.64 per cent, followed by Rajkot 45.74 per cent, Bhavnagar 43.66 per cent, Vadodara 42.82 per cent, Surat 42.11 per cent and Ahmedabad 37.81 per cent.The votes will be counted on February 23. Polling for 81 municipalities, 31 district panchayats and 231 taluka panchayats will be held on February 28 and the results would be out on March 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/7-days-after-testing-positive-for-covid-19-gujarat-cm-votes-in-civic-polls-101613933164388.html
22-02-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra Covid-19 tally crosses 2.1 million||Maharashtra on Sunday crossed a grim milestone of recording more than 2.1 million cases, which coincided with spike in cases and lockdown in a few districts, since the pandemic broke out in the state in March 2020. The state recorded 6,971 new Covid-19 infections, highest one-day spike in last 121 days since October 23, when the state clocked 7,347 cases. The state’s Covid case tally reached 21,00,884, while toll was pushed to 51,799 with 35 new deaths. Mumbai which has also recorded a steady increase in cases for the past few days, reported 921 new infections on Sunday, taking to count to 319,128. The spike has forced many districts and cities such as Amravati, Akola, Yavatmal, Pune, Nashik, Parbhani to impose stricter curbs on movement of the people. Amravati city will be placed under lockdown for a week starting Monday, 8pm, guardian minister Yashomati Thakur, said on Sunday. Only essential services will be allowed to function during the lockdown. This will be the first lockdown after the state initiated Mission Begin Again or unlocking activities. A few other districts in Vidarbha and other parts of the state have imposed other curbs, including night curfew, weekend lockdown, announced closure of the schools and colleges and started penalising people, establishments for not following Covid-19 protocol. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray issued an ultimatum to people, warning them of a lockdown if Covid-19 protocol was not followed properly. “It all depends on you, whether you want a lockdown or you are ready to follow the norms to avoid it. The lockdown this time will be more difficult to follow. It will be known only after a week or two if we are facing the second wave of pandemic,” he said. He also announced a ban on social, religious, political gatherings and protests that attract crowding for the next few weeks. The number of cases in Amravati has been increasing rapidly over the past few days. On Saturday, Amravati (both district and city) reported 1,055 cases, while on Sunday, 926 cases were reported in the district. Nashik guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal on Sunday announced night curfew will be imposed in the city between 11pm and 5am, however, essential services do not come under the curb.Amravati collector Shelesh Nawal said, “Lockdown has been imposed in Amravati city from 8pm on Monday for seven days.” An order issued by divisional commissioner of Amravati division which governs five Vidarbha districts (Amravati, Akola, Washim, Yavatmal, Buldhana) on Sunday stated all the exemptions granted during the state’s Mission Begin Again initiative stand canceled. The operations of shops and establishments have been restricted to 9am to 5pm, while the attendance in private and public offices has been brought down to 15% or 15 employees, whichever is more. The hotels in these districts have been shut down allowing them to continue with the take away service, while wedding ceremonies are allowed with only 25 invitees. Weekend curfew from 5pm on Saturday to 9am on Monday has already been imposed in these districts. The state breached the one million mark on September 11, a little over six months after the first case was detected on March 9. It took the state 187 days to cross the 1 million mark, followed by another 132 days for 2 million cases on January 21, 2021. While there are 10 more days for the month to end, the state has already recorded 77,122 cases in February, compared to 92,177 new cases in January and 1,20,684 cases in December 2020. Between February 1 and 15, Pune, Mumbai, and Nagpur added more than 3,000 cases each, while Amravati and Thane recorded more than 2,000 cases each. The number of active cases in the state is 52,956 after 2,417 recoveries were recorded on Sunday.It also recorded six deaths taking the toll to 11,446. Other cities like Pune, Nagpur, and Nashik also recorded 640, 599, and 291 cases respectively.Dr Subhash Salunkhe, advisor to the state on Covid control, said, “In the past one week, cases have doubled by 35%. It is like people are inviting trouble upon themselves. Even after so many appeals by the government, Covid appropriate behavior is not being followed. It is absolutely unfortunate. What can the government do in such a situation if not increase restrictions?”Salunkhe further said that the transmission is now increasing in other rural districts apart from Akola and Amravati also. District collectors or municipal commissioners have been empowered to restrict the invitees at the wedding ceremonies. As per the state guidelines issued in the past, 50 invitees are allowed for the wedding ceremonies, while the number in five districts of Vidarbha has been reduced to 25. “There is no ban on the wedding ceremony, but the attendance has been restricted to arrest the spread,” said an official from the relief and rehabilitation department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-covid-19-tally-crosses-2-1-million-101613932819292.html
22-02-2021||Mumbai||Road rage: Two men attacked in Mumbai||Sion police are on the lookout for three unidentified men who allegedly attacked a duo with a broken beer bottle during a road rage incident, early on Sunday.According to police, the victim, identified as Nitin Munendrakumar Saroj, 22, and his friend Raja Saroj, 22, were travelling by a two-wheeler to drop off their friend Santosh to Mankhurd at midnight on Sunday, when the incident took place.Police said that as the duo was on the Dr BA Road in Sion, a scooter with three people on it overtook them from the wrong side. The Saroj told police that they could have fallen off the motorcycle if the rider Raja had not been able to control the bike.Saroj told police that after the incident, they flagged the scooter to confront the accused. However, the three began fighting with the victims.“As the fight turned ugly and Saroj threatened to report them to the police, one of the accused broke a beer bottle and attacked Saroj and Raja with it, injuring them,” said an officer from Sion police station.Police said that the three then fled. “Saroj, who suffered cuts to his hand and neck, memorised the number plate of the bike and reported the attack to us,” added the officer.Police have booked the trio for assault and attempt to murder under sections 323 and 307 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). “We are trying to identify the accused. We are also scanning CCTV footage of the area to get a better idea of the entire incident,” the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/road-rage-two-men-attacked-in-mumbai-101613932518084.html
22-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: 24-year-old tries to kill woman who turned down his advances||Bandra Government Railway Police (GRP) arrested a 24-year-old Wadala resident for allegedly trying to push a woman under the train after she refused his advances. The incident took place on Friday at 8pm when the accused, Sumedh Jadhav, proposed to the victim and was rejected.According to GRP officers, Jadhav and the victim worked together in 2018. The accused had tried to befriend her, but the woman refused and left the job. Since then, Jadhav tried to pursue the 21-year-old on several occasions but to no avail. “He then threatened to kill her following which she approached Nirmal Nagar police and a non-cognisable complaint was filed against him,” said a GRP officer.On Friday, when the victim was returning home from office, Jadhav called her and said he wanted to meet her. The woman immediately called up her mother and asked her to come and escort her home. At 8pm, when the woman and her mother were at Khar station, Jadhav approached her but the woman’s mother intervened. In a fit of rage, Jadhav threatened to commit suicide. However, when a train approached, Jadhav dragged the victim and tried to push her under the train.Passers-by on the platform saved the woman. Meanwhile, Jadhav fled the spot. “The woman has received 12 stitches on her forehead,” said Vilas Chaughule, senior inspector, Bandra GRP.The police registered a complaint and arrested Jadhav from his residence within 12 hours. “We had been tracking Jadhav’s mobile phone. We have arrested him under section 307 of the Indian Penal Code for attempt to murder,” said the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-24-year-old-tries-to-kill-woman-who-turned-down-his-advances-101613932338144.html
22-02-2021||Mumbai||BMC to map probable disasters across Mumbai to help plan city infrastructure||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) will carry out mapping of all probable disasters, generate scenarios of their geographical impact zones and magnitude of destruction to life, livelihood, and property at the ward level. The city is prone to 35 natural and manmade disasters, such as tsunamis, impact of earthquake due to the fault line at Panvel near Mumbai, cyclones, flooding, landslides, bomb blasts, fires, oil spills, building collapses, tree collapses, road-over and foot overbridges collapses, stampede, power failures, nuclear and radiological disasters, and even sinking or collisions of ships, or war, according to a list of probable disasters prepared for the city by the Disaster Management Department of Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). The civic body will conduct seismic microzonation, hazard vulnerable risk assessment (HVRA) and develop tsunami atlas, to help administrative authorities, fire fighters, and builders in decision making while developing infrastructure in the city. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner incharge of BMC’s disaster management department, said, “Many probable disasters are likely to strike Mumbai. Some are man-made, and some natural disasters. Many manmade disasters can be triggered by natural disasters, such as building collapses and fires can be triggered by natural disasters [earthquakes, cyclones]. We are going to map areas that are prone to disasters and investigate their impact. Basis this information, we will come up with a standard operating procedure (SOP) for disaster response.”A senior civic officer said, “This mapping will be linked to artificial intelligence – an IT based platform – for predictable analysis of probable disasters. This can be used for earlier warning and early evacuation.”A mini-prototype of this plan is already active for disaster response during monsoon flooding for Mumbai. The system is used for evacuation in flood-prone spots through predictions of water logging based on rain forecasts. It also has disaster response and evacuation plan for residents living along the banks of the four rivers of the city – Dahisar, Mithi, Oshiwara and Poisar. It has been most successfully used by the BMC for evacuating residents of areas on the banks of Mithi river during the past two-three monsoons. An SOP is automatically activated, and also has evacuation details for these areas complete with information on nearby civic shelters, transport services which can commute distressed residents and commuters caught up in flood to the shelters, food services in the area which have agreed to supply food to shelters, and nearby medical facilities. A second part of this prototype includes tying up with mobile service providers to send out area specific messages to residents living in the vicinity of the spot.As part of HVRA, the BMC will also study short-term and long-term impact of disasters on livelihood of Mumbaiite and post disaster rehabilitation. In cases where livelihood of people is impacted, predictions will also include how long it will take for people to get back on their feet economically, and what can be done to prevent loss of lives and livelihood in case a disaster strikes.A senior civic officer said, “The Dharavi, for example, is a hub for small- and medium-scale industries that support the livelihood of lakhs of people. There are many such small industrial areas across the city. If a disaster strikes such an area, it will impact the livelihood of countless families. To prevent such an impact, we need early prediction of probable disasters, and timely response. The artificial intelligence based system will help determine policy decisions.”This data will be digitally available to the general public as well, to determine the hazard to their plot or property, and take decisions about construction designs of their properties. Once the entire exercise is complete, the BMC will conduct training sessions for elected representatives and locals to identify possibility of manmade disasters, and how to act fast in case of a natural disaster.Kakani said, “This will also help us convince the public to evacuate dangerous premises. Right now, we have noticed there is a lot of resistance in moving out of a landslide prone area, or a dilapidated building for example. If we can educate people on the impact of such disasters, we will be able to communicate with them better.”Through disaster response over the past decades, the BMC authorities already know what areas are prone to what disasters. For example, Malad is prone to landslides; the active faultline at Panvel will impact residents of Chembur, Govandi, and other areas in the east; tsunamis or cyclones will impact residents living along the coast of Mumbai the most, and south Mumbai has the most number of old buildings.The list of 35 disasters prepared by BMC is further divided based on magnitude of impact. For example, bomb blast as a disaster has been divided into blast in a train, blast in a hospital, blast at a public place, and blast in a vehicle. Tree collapse has been divided into signs that the tree or only a branch will collapse, versus a tree collapse, and a branch collapse. Building collapse has been divided into partial collapse and building collapse, along with signs that a building will collapse or partially collapse; destruction of road traffic has been categories as disruption due to strike, water logging, or mere traffic jams.Kakani said, “The details will help the civic body train people who are first responders, to save themselves and rescue others.”A budgetary provision of ₹18.26 crore has been made for this project, in BMC’s budget 2021-22 presented before the standing committee by municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-to-map-probable-disasters-across-mumbai-to-help-plan-city-infrastructure-101613932219193.html
22-02-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC fines 5 Jalna civic officials ₹1 lakh each for misleading court||Observing that the majesty of law had to be upheld by high-ranking officers, the Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court (HC) recently imposed a cost of ₹1 lakh each on five officials of the Jalna Municipal Corporation who were found to have given false statements in a bid to mislead the court in a public interest litigation (PIL). The officials, while giving their statement regarding a slaughter-house which the PIL had alleged was illegal, had assured the court that the slaughter-house was legal and had all the requisite permissions from various authorities. However, on perusal of records and other documents, the court found the statements to be false. To deter others to act in a similar way, the court imposed the cost on the officials. The division bench of justice Ravindra Ghuge and justice BU Debadwar, while hearing the PIL filed by Ashpak Ansari and others, was informed by advocate Milind Patil that the slaughter house at Mangal Bazar, Kadrabad area, which was purportedly under the authority of Jalna Municipal Corporation was functioning illegally as it did not have a clearance from the pollution control board (PCB) since its inception in 2015-16. In earlier hearings in January, the concerned officials had told the court the slaughter house had the requisite clearance and was working as per the sanitation and hygiene norms of the civic authority. However, after the petitioners submitted photographs of the dilapidated and extremely unhealthy environment of the structure, the civic officials pressed their machinery to clear the garbage and whitewash the entire premise to show that the allegations of the petitioners were untrue. However, the counsel for PCB submitted that no clearance had been granted to the slaughter-house and added that it was even disposing waste in civic nullahs. When the court confronted the officials, they admitted to making false statements to mislead the court but sought a pardon on the grounds that they had done it for the first time and were willing to pay a penalty. After hearing the submissions, the court observed, “We are of the view that the majesty of law has to be upheld and any person; howsoever high office he may hold, should not be permitted to mislead the court.” While acceding to the request of the officials not to initiate contempt of court proceedings against them, the court imposed a cost of ₹1 lakh on each of them and asked them to deposit the same with the court within March 6. “We intend to donate the said amount to the account of the District Collector, Jalna to be utilised for Covid-19 vaccination in Jalna district in those areas where poverty-stricken persons are held eligible for vaccination,” the court noted. The court, while seeking the names of the officials concerned, directed the PCB counsel to place a list of officials who had done dereliction of duty and posted the PIL for hearing on February 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-fines-5-jalna-civic-officials-1-lakh-each-for-misleading-court-101613932218153.html
22-02-2021||Delhi||Man shot dead in Najafgarh, police suspect personal enmity||A 42-year-old man was shot dead in Shyam Vihar area of Najafgarh on Sunday evening, police said.Senior officers said Naresh Singh, who worked as a financer for local property agents, was shot at least ten times. They said initial investigation suggest that the murder could be a fallout of a financial dispute over ₹6-7 lakh and a car.Investigators said Singh lived in Dharmpura, Najafgarh. They said the incident took place at 8.30pm when Singh with sitting with at least four others near a property dealer’s shop in Shyam Vihar.“According to witnesses, 4-5 men reached there in a car and opened fire on Singh. He was shot multiple times. As he collapsed, the men fled the spot in the car. Singh’s friends rushed him to a hospital where the doctors pronounced him dead. The matter was reported to the police and Singh’s family was also informed. His body was sent for a post mortem examination,” said a senior police officer.Crime and forensics team were also rushed to the spot.The police officer said during initial probe locals identified one of the assailants as Neeraj Tehlan, a 30-year-old resident of Nangli Sakrawati, a village on the outskirts of Najafgarh.“We have established that some months ago, Tehlan borrowed ₹6-7 lakh from Singh but was not being able to return the money. As a guarantee, Singh had kept Tehlan’s Hyundai Creta car with him. On February 1, Tehlan went to Singh’s house and took his car. This led to an argument between them and both threatened each other of dire consequences,” the officer added.Deputy commissioner of police (Dwarka) Santosh Kumar Meena said it seems that following the enmity over the money and the car, Tehlan killed Singh on Sunday evening. “Preliminary medical examination has confirmed that he was shot at least ten times. A case of murder has been registered and efforts to trace Tehlan and his associates are underway,” the DCP said.The police are also probing if any of the assailants have a criminal record or association with any gangs.“The matter is being probed from all possible angles,” the DCP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/man-shot-dead-in-najafgarh-police-suspect-personal-enmity-101613929998823.html
22-02-2021||Delhi||Third week of switch Delhi campaign to focus on electric cars: Gahlot||The state government will focus on electric cars in the third week of its “Switch Delhi” campaign aimed at promoting electric vehicles (EVs) in the national capital, transport minister Kailash Gahlot said on Sunday.“This week, we will focus on sensitising Delhi people on the benefits of EV four-wheelers over their petrol or diesel counterparts, and on the many benefits that are offered under Delhi’s EV policy for those who want to make this switch,” Gahlot said.Delhi was among the first states to offer incentives on the purchase of private four-wheelers. Incentives of up to ₹3 lakh are provided under the Delhi EV policy, that includes a ₹1.5 lakh subsidy and exemption in registration fees and road tax.Also Read | All transport services to go digital by April, trials underway: Gahlot“This is the highest subsidy in India and makes the total cost of ownership of an electric car in Delhi exactly the same as a diesel car. Subsidies provided on electric cars under the Delhi EV policy are reducing the total cost of ownership of the electric cars by up to 30%. An individual can save ₹1,050 per month by switching from a diesel car to an EV,” Gahlot said.Under Delhi’s EV policy, 12 four-wheeler models are available and eligible for purchase and scrapping incentives. There are significant financial benefits that e-cars offer, the government said in a statement. The total cost of ownership of a private electric car and a private diesel car travelling approximately 30km a day in Delhi is ₹19.04/km and ₹19.11/km respectively, the government statement said.Switch Delhi is an eight-week mass awareness campaign launched by the Delhi government to sensitise people about the benefits of switching to EVs to the environment as well as to make them aware of the incentives and infrastructure being developed under Delhi’s EV policy. The campaign aims at informing, encouraging, and motivating each and every person in Delhi to switch from polluting vehicles to zero-emission electric vehicles, the government said in the statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/third-week-of-switch-delhi-campaign-to-focus-on-electric-cars-gahlot-101613929997957.html
22-02-2021||Delhi||Four more nabbed for Rinku Sharma’s murder in Mangolpuri||Delhi Police on Sunday said they have arrested four more suspects in connection with Rinku Sharma’s murder that took place on the night of February 10 in outer Delhi’s Mangolpuri area. Senior police officers said that the suspects were arrested with the help of CCTV footage, in which they were all spotted attacking Sharma.Delhi police had on February 11 already arrested five persons for the murder. Investigators identified Sunday’s four arrested men as Deen Mohammad, 40, Dilshan Mohammad, 22, Fayaiz Alam, 21 and Faizan Alam, 21, all residents of Magolpuri.Delhi police’s additional public relations officer, Anil Mittal said the arrest was made by a crime branch team. “All the four suspects have been identified with the help of CCTV footage in which they can be seen attacking Sharma,” he said.Also Read | AAP, BJP trade barbs over Mangolpuri murder, demand ₹1 crore as compensationSharma had been murdered on February 10 after he had attended a birthday party with his friends and some residents of his neighbourhood. According to investigators, during the party, a fight started over shutting down of a restaurant between one of Sharma’s friends with another person. During the tiff, Sharma had slapped one of the persons from the other group.After the party ended, police said, Sharma was caught and thrashed by the members of the other group when he was returning home. When he tried to escape, the men chased Sharma and there stabbed him to death.The next day, the police had arrested four men for the murder – Mohammad Danish, 36, Mohammad Islam, 45, Zahid, 26, and Mohammad Mehtab, 20. While Danish and Islam work as tailors, Zahid is studying in third year of his graduation and Mehtab is a student of class 12, police had said. A day later, police also arrested one Tajuddin, 39, after his involvement also surfaced in the killing.Sharma’s family, however, later refuted the police’s claims that an argument over shutting down of a restaurant had snowballed into the fight that led to his killing. They alleged that Sharma’s killers often used to object to his activities associated with Bajrang Dal and Vishwa Hindu Parishad, and that they had also fought in August last year on a similar issue.A day after the murder, BJP MP Hans Raj Hans, Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta and AAP MLA Rakhi Birlan visited Sharma’s family. Some leaders also alleged that there was a communal angle to the incident, after which the Delhi police had to deploy paramilitary personnel to maintain law and order in the area.The police had, however, said that no untoward incident had been reported in the area following the murder.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/four-more-nabbed-for-rinku-sharma-s-murder-in-mangolpuri-101613929943196.html
22-02-2021||Delhi||Delhi Police arrest three men for killing Faridkot youth Congress chief||The Delhi police on Sunday said they have arrested three men for their alleged role in the murder of Gurlal Singh Bhalwan, the president of the Faridkot district youth Congress, who was shot dead in the Punjab city on Thursday.Deputy commissioner of police (special cell) Manishi Chandra said the murder was a fallout of a gang rivalry and was allegedly orchestrated by a wanted criminal, Goldy Brar, based in Canada who got it executed with the help of his associate Lawrence Vishnoi, a gangster currently imprisoned in Rajasthan’s Ajmer jail.Police said Bhalwan was shot dead when he was getting into his car while leaving a shop in Faridkot. As he fell, two men pumped more than 10 bullets into him, before fleeing on a motorcycle.Also Read | Faridkot Youth Congress president shot deadThe police have identified the three arrested men as Gurvinder Pal, 32, Sukhwinder Dhillon, 23, and Saurabh Varma, 21, all residents of Faridkot in Punjab.“During the early hours of Sunday, information was received that three persons suspected to be involved in Bhalwan’s murder are expected to come near Sarai Kale Khan. Accordingly, a raid was conducted and the three men were caught. Two firearms and eight live cartridges were recovered from them,” Chandra said.Chandra said that interrogations revealed that the murder was plotted in Canada by Brar.“It was found that Brar is running an extortion cartel in Punjab, from Canada. It was further established that Brar’s cousin Gurlal, former state president of the Student Organization of Punjab University (SOPU), an outfit patronised by Vishnoi, was murdered in a gang war between Bishnoi and Bhambhia gang in Chandigarh in October last year,” the officer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-police-arrest-three-men-for-killing-faridkot-youth-congress-chief-101613929937265.html
22-02-2021||Delhi||Three farm laws are death warrant for the country’s farmers: Kejriwal||Describing the three new farm laws as a “death warrant for the country’s farmers”, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday demanded that the Centre repeal the legislation and provide a legal guarantee on the minimum support price (MSP) on the basis of the Swaminathan Commission report.“The three anti-farmer laws are a death warrant for the country’s farmers. If these laws are implemented, agriculture in India will go into the hands of a few industrialists and the farmers will be devastated. If these laws are implemented, then the farmers of India will become labourers in their own land,” Kejriwal said after meeting farm leaders at the Delhi Vidhan Sabha.Kejriwal, who is also the national convener of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), invited the farm leaders to lunch on Saturday and discussed the ongoing protests against the new laws that seek to deregulate agricultural trade. The invite from Kejriwal came in the backdrop of a ‘kisan mahapanchayat’ that will take place in UP’s Meerut on February 28, where the Delhi CM will address the farmers.Also Read | For 88 days, farm unions have camped outside Delhi against the three laws that cultivators say favour big corporations. The government has refuted the concerns, and offered to put the laws on hold for 18 months, but talks are currently locked in a stalemate. Opposition parties — including the Congress, Shiv Sena, Shiromani Akali Dal, Nationalist Congress Party, Samajwadi Party and Left parties — have attacked the Centre over these laws in the past two months.“The farmers also demanded that the BJP-led Central government should give a legal guarantee on the MSP. They demanded that MSP guarantee should be implemented on all the 23 crops. The farmers also demanded that the MSP should be implemented following the recommendation of the Swaminathan commission,” Kejriwal said.Farmer leader and president of Rashtriya Jat Mahasangh, Rohit Jakhar, who attended the meeting with Kejriwal, said they will continue to protest.“By inviting farmers of western Uttar Pradesh to the Delhi legislative assembly, Kejriwal has broken all barriers of caste, religion and sect and embraced the entire Chaudhary community of UP. Kejriwal has given us respect just the way Lord Krishna gave respect to Sudama,” he said.Kuldeep Tyagi, president, Bharatiya Kisan Andolan (Meerut) said the Centre should immediately roll back the three farm laws.“The central government should rather bring a law which gives us a guarantee on MSP and this should be based on the recommendations of the Swaminathan Commission. The farmer protest will continue. In the villages, the panchayats will reach out to the people and raise these demands. This battle is for the farmers, but this battle will become a battle for every citizen because farmers provide food to the entire country,” Tyagi said.On January 9, agricultural scientist Monkombu Sambasivan Swaminathan, known as the father of India’s Green Revolution, said the Union government should fix minimum support prices (MSPs) for farm produce by using a broader and more comprehensive measure of cultivation costs than the one being currently used.Swaminathan first recommended that MSPs – which act as a floor price to avoid distress sales – should be “at least 50% more than the weighted average cost of production” in the fifth report of the National Commission on Farmers set up under his chairmanship.The President gave his assent to The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020 (FPTC), the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 (FAPAFS), and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020, on September 27.The first law aims to permit the sale of agricultural produce outside the mandis regulated by the Agricultural Produce Marketing Committees (APMC), the second provides for contract farming and the third deregulates the production, supply, distribution of food items like cereals, pulses, potatoes, onion and edible oilseeds.The Opposition criticised the government for the way the laws were passed with the BJP oldest ally Shiromani Akali Dal parting ways over the laws.The Bharatiya Janata Party on Sunday passed a political resolution hailing the passage of the farm laws, which it said are aimed at improving the lot of the farmers and increasing their income. The resolution, passed at the end of a day-long national office bearers meeting, which was addressed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.A Delhi BJP spokesperson refused to comment on the chief minister’s remark on the three farm laws.On January 12, the Supreme Court stayed the implementation of the three farm laws till further orders after several petitions were filed challenging their constitutional validity, and decided to set up a four-member committee to resolve the deadlock between the Centre and farmers’ unions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/three-farm-laws-are-death-warrant-for-the-country-s-farmers-kejriwal-101613929880417.html
22-02-2021||Delhi||Delhi airport likely to have fourth runway operational by September||Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International airport is likely to throw open its fourth runway for operations September this year, officials said, adding that construction work was nearing completion and the operator was looking to wrap up work and hand it over to the air traffic control by July.Thereafter, the strip will undergo a certification by the Directorate General of Civil Aviation and if all goes as planned, will be made operational, latest by September, the officials said.Once operational, the fourth runway will not only increase the per hour flight handling capacity of the Delhi airport, but will also cut down the waiting time for approaching and departing flights, the officials said.The new runway will be equipped with advanced landing systems allowing flight operations in visibility as low as 50 metres. The strip will be capable of catering to the biggest passenger aircraft, the Airbus A380, they said.Officials in the know of the development said that the basic structural construction work of the runway is almost complete and that the next few months will be spent installing equipment, testing them and in construction of other required structures near the strip.A senior officer in the ministry of civil aviation, who is aware of the development said that the runway is being built between the existing Terminal 3 and runway 29/11, which at present is the longest runway in India.“The construction work of the fourth runway had started in 2019 and is in full swing. It is likely to be completed by July. As per the plan, the airport operator DIAL (Delhi International Airport Ltd) will hand over the air strip to its air side team and to the Delhi air traffic control in July, after which the runway will be audited by the DGCA. After due certifications and approvals, if all goes well, it is likely to be made operational by September,” the officer said.The airport operator, DIAL, declined to comment on the development.Another officer from the Delhi airport said that the construction work of the fourth runway was impacted and had to be stopped briefly in 2020 because of the raging Covid-19 pandemic. “The airport has managed to make up for lost time and will hopefully deliver the runway on time,” the officer said, requesting anonymity.Also Read | Delhi may bring back Covid checks for domestic flyersThe officer said that the length of the fourth runway is 4,400 metres, a little less than the existing third runway 29/11 (4,430 metres). “Delhi will have both the longest and the second longest runway in the country. Total width of the runway will be 75 metres, making it capable of handling new generation large aircraft, such as the Airbus A380 and Boeing 747-400,” the officer said.The fourth runway will also have instrument landing systems at both its ends to allow compatible aircraft to land even when the visibility is as low as 50 metres during dense fog. “This will also make Delhi airport the only one in the country to have three runways with advanced landing system,” the officer added.Talking about how the fourth runway will enhance the flight operations capacity of the airport, an official from the Delhi air traffic control said, once in use, runway 29/11 and the new runway will be used, parallelly, for arrivals and departures.“This will take the per hour capacity of Delhi airport from 75-80 flights to 105-110 flights, thereby reducing the congestion over Delhi’s airspace. At present aircraft are forced to hover and wait in queue before landing. The fourth runway will help save time making air operations smoother,” the ATC official said.The expansionDelhi airport at present is undergoing expansion to attain a passenger handling capacity of up to 140 million per year. The current capacity of the airport is of around 100 million passengers.As planned, apart from the fourth runway, the revamped airport will have a first of its kind ‘dual elevated cross taxiway’ which would help in reducing the taxiing time of aircraft. Terminal 1, which is at present closed for operations, is also being expanded and its total area will increase taking its passenger handling capacity from 20 million passengers per year to 40 million.As per the plan, the arrival and departure terminals of the airport will be integrated under a single roof to form the new integrated Terminal 1. The international transfer area of Terminal 3 will also be increased, and a 7th check-in island will be added in T3 with a connected baggage handling stems and two arrival carousels.The ongoing expansion will also impact the city side as the Central Spine Road (the main approach road to the T3) is being widened from 8 lanes to 12 lanes to cater to the expected increase in traffic. Once T1 is completed, additional lanes will be added to the departure ramp of T1 to improve traffic circulation and a dedicated corridor for cargo movement in and out of the airport, with a flyover close to NH8, will also be constructed to segregate the heavy vehicle movement from passenger vehicles.Aviation expert, Mark D Martin said that new runway will also boost efficiency of the existing 29/11. “Because of the Shiv Murti, the existing biggest runway 29/11 is not being used to its full capacity. The fourth runway will not only be an additional air strip, but in fact will be helpful in putting the runway 29/11 to its full use,” he said.Martin said even though landing on 29/11 is not a challenge task but having a displaced thresh hold because of the obstacles, it can be a challenge specially during bad weather.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-airport-likely-to-have-fourth-runway-operational-by-september-101613929879858.html
22-02-2021||Delhi||Sisodia, cabinet ministers campaign for bypolls||Senior AAP leader and Delhi’s deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia and his other cabinet colleagues on Sunday campaigned for the party candidates in the bypolls to the five municipal corporation wards. Polling in the five wards will be held on February 28.Two former AAP MLAs are in the fray besides other three local leaders for the five seats. Political parties in Delhi are seeing byelections to the five municipal wards - 32N (Rohini-C), 2-E (Trilokpuri), 08-E (Kalyanpuri), 41-E (Chauhan Bangar) and 62N (Shalimar Bagh North) - as a testing ground for the municipal polls next year. While the AAP is in power in the Delhi government, all three municipal corporations are ruled by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)Sisodia held a ‘padyatra’ in east Delhi’s Kondli and Trilokpuri areas in support of AAP candidate Dhirendra (Bunty Gautam) who is an AAP leader from Kondli. Social welfare minister Rajendra Pal Gautam also campaigned in the same areas, health minister Satyendar Jain held a public meeting at Rohini Sector-24.Also Read | AAP leader Gopal Rai confident of victory in MCD bypollsEnvironment minister Gopal Rai, who is also AAP’s Delhi unit convener, held a meeting with booth-level workers of the AAP at the Chauhan Bangar ward in Seelampur constituency. Former AAP MLA from Seelampur Mohammad Ishraq Khan is contesting from Chauhan Bangar.Transport minister Kailash Gahlot campaigned for Ram Chander, the AAP candidate from 32N (Rohini-C) ward. Chander had won the Bawana assembly seat in the bypoll in 2017 on AAP ticket.“The AAP leaders are trying to reach out to most of the Delhi residents by going door to door ahead of the MCD by-elections. During the campaigns, the AAP leaders are telling the citizens of Delhi about the rampant corruption in the BJP-ruled MCD for the last 15 years. Arvind Kejriwal’s AAP is the only political party that can bring development to Delhi,” said Sisodia.Rai said this is not just the election of five wards, but also the “semi-final” to overthrow the corrupt 15-year rule of BJP in the MCD.“The BJP did politics of hatred during the Delhi assembly elections, but people choose AAP again under CM Kejriwal. The AAP will defeat BJP with a historical majority in the MCD by-election just the way it did in the Delhi assembly election. The Congress will not do any good to the citizens of Delhi, but only cut votes,” said Rai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/municipal-bypolls-sisodia-other-cabinet-ministers-campaign-for-party-candidates-101613929879172.html
22-02-2021||Delhi||Delhi forest dept tells infra agencies how to preserve environment||Following the orders of the Delhi high court, the city’s forest department has arranged for a workshop for all road-owning agencies, to apprise them of ways to preserve the ecology of an area while it carries out digging and construction activities.The forest department on February 19 sent a meeting notice to all road-owning, construction and development agencies in Delhi, asking them to attend the workshop, where they will be given a walk-through on ways in which construction and digging work can carried out while also preserving the ecology of the area.Along with officials from the forest department, the training session will be carried out by reputed experts in the field. Invitations have been sent out to Pradip Krishen, author and environmentalist, Prabhakar Rao, member of Kalpkrish, an environment action group, Vimlendu Jha, founder of environment NGO Swechha and a former independent member of Delhi’s Ridge Management Board, and Vallari Sheel, researcher and urban ecologist, who will also be discussing best practices with the agencies.Also Read | Forest dept restrains DJB from work on deemed forest stretch in west DelhiThe workshop will be conducted on February 23.“All officials and experts are requested to participate in the said workshop. In case of exigency, senior officials may depute representatives not less than a gazetted officer or equivalent,” the meeting notice issued by chief conservator forests (CCF) Nisheeth Saxena read.The workshop will be attended by representatives from Delhi Development Authority (DDA), Public Works Department (PWD), the three municipal corporations (north, south and east), the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC), Delhi Jal Board (DJB), Delhi Fire Services (DFS), Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC), Delhi Cantonment Board etc.This workshop was scheduled after the Delhi high court in an order issued on February 10, asked the Delhi government to initiate measures to sensitise agencies to the importance of preserving trees while undertaking civil construction work.The court was hearing the matter against the PWD for damaging the roots of trees during the construction of a drain on Meera Marg at Lodi Road. Complaints were received by the forest department of 30 trees being damaged on Meera Marg by the PWD work in September last year, while in January again another 12 trees were damaged by this.“The imperative to preserve, nurture and augment the green cover in the city cannot be over-emphasized. It is expected that by the next date, due measures would have been initiated by the GNCTD (Government of the National Capital of Delhi) and appropriate orders/directions would have been issued for care of, obviating harm to and for preservation of the tree cover,” the court order read.The order added, “Necessary capacity-building measures through workshops and training sessions too may be initiated within two weeks from today. The GNCTD may take the assistance of reputed NGOs to assist in the process.”The court again on February 18 acknowledged the response of the government and approved the setting up of the workshop date, highlighting that the sessions should be conducted by senior forest department officials, scientists and academicians.“Considering that there are so many agencies that undertake construction work of some form in Delhi, it is important that agencies are guided on ways in which they can carry out their work while also not harming the trees that fall in the way. We will try to give a comprehensive session to the agencies on the ways in which the ecology can be preserved as has been ordered by the court,” said a senior forest department official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-forest-dept-tells-infra-agencies-how-to-preserve-environment-101613929818017.html
22-02-2021||Delhi||North MCD meet to confer legal status on new structure in Chandni Chowk||The North Delhi Municipal Corporation will explore possibilities of providing “legal status” to the makeshift structure that has come up on the central verge of the main Chandni Chowk road on Thursday night, barely a few metres away from where a now demolished Hanuman temple stood.The old temple, which was located on the pavement of the carriageway towards Red Fort, had been demolished by the North Delhi Municipal Corporation on the directions of the Delhi high court on January 3. On Saturday, the Public Works Department (PWD) wrote to the Delhi Police asking them to take action against the construction. The PWD in its complaint clearly mentioned that the structure has come up without any permission from any of the agencies executing the Chandni Chowk redevelopment project.North corporation mayor Jai Prakash said he has called a meeting on Monday to check if the temple can be provided a legal status.Also Read | Makeshift structure comes up near site of razed Chandni Chowk temple“I have called a meeting tomorrow (Monday) to explore options to provide a legal status to the temple as it is a centre of faith of thousands of Hindus living in the area. Once a legal status is given, the structure will remain at the site and cannot be removed,” Prakash said.He said that the meeting would be attended by not only the political executives, but also officials of legal and land-related departments. “If we find that it is possible to grant the temple a legal status, then we will draft a proposal and get it approved in a House meeting on Thursday,” Prakash said.On Friday and Saturday, leaders of all the three political parties — the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and the Congress — had visited the makeshift temple in Chandni Chowk and offered prayers, performed Hawan and chanted religious hymns such as Hanuman Chalisa and sundar kand. On Sunday too, locals went to the makeshift temple and offered prayers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/north-corporation-looking-at-ways-to-provide-legal-tag-to-new-chandni-chowk-structure-101613929757342.html
22-02-2021||Delhi||Bullet train, Metro, bus and train: All at Sarai Kale Khan||Sarai Kale Khan is going to be the biggest transport hub of India a few years down the line with the Central government planning to integrate the area with its ambitious bullet train project.According to National High Speed Rail Corporation Limited (NHSRCL), which is planning and executing the bullet train project, the Delhi to Varanasi corridor will be one of the first high-speed rail links that will come up in the country, after the Mumbai-Ahmedabad corridor.“For Delhi, we are planning one station which will be in close proximity to Sarai Kale Khan and the Nizamuddin railway station. This station is being planned as the starting point for the Delhi-Varanasi corridor,” said Sushma Gaur, spokesperson of NHSRCL.The proposed Delhi Varanasi High-Speed Rail (DVHSR) corridor will have a length of about 800km and will connect the national capital with major cities in Uttar Pradesh such as Mathura, Agra, Etawah, Lucknow, Raebareli, Prayagraj, Bhadohi, Varanasi and Ayodhya. It will also be connected with the upcoming international airport in Jewar in neighbouring Gautam Budh Nagar district. The project will, however, take over five years to be ready as the NHSRCL is still only preparing the detailed project report.In Delhi, the idea is to connect all modes of transport with the high-speed rail (HSR), Gaur said. The corporation is planning the station in Sarai Kale Khan with this idea in mind so that people can reach the corridor via road (the Outer Ring Road), via the Delhi Metro (the Pink Line’s Hazrat Nizamuddin station), via interstate buses (Sarai Kale Khan ISBT), and via regional rail connectivity (the upcoming Regional Rapid Transit System (RRTS)). It will also be connected to the Nizamuddin railway station, officials said.Already, all three RRTS corridors under Phse 1 -- the Delhi-Ghaziabad-Meerut; Delhi-Gurugram-SNB-Alwar and Delhi-Panipat -- are slated to converge at Sarai Kale Khan when ready.Integration with Airport Express LineApart from the Delhi-Varanasi corridor, the NHSRCL is planning two more corridors from the national capital -- the Delhi-Ahmedabad line and the Delhi-Amritsar line.On January 13, the corporation wrote to the Delhi government seeking assistance in the DPR preparation of the Delhi-Ahmedabad corridor.“The NHSRCL has been entrusted with the DPR work for HSR corridor of Delhi-Jaipur-Udaipur-Gandhi Nagar- Ahmedabad. The total project length is 886km, of which approximately 4.5km are in Delhi. It is estimated to traverse through the two districts of New Delhi and south-west Delhi,” read the letter addressed to chief secretary Vijay Dev.Senior officials said currently, one common station is being planned for both the Delhi-Ahmedabad and Delhi-Amritsar corridors.“We intend to build this station in close proximity of Dwarka’s Sector 21 Metro station and the Bijwasan railway station. While preparing the DPR, integration of this station with the operational Airport Express Metro Line is also being worked out as that will give connectivity to HSR users to not just to the Delhi airport but also to Central Delhi,” the spokesperson said.It will also provide connectivity to the upcoming International Convention Centre at Dwarka’s Sector 25 and Gurugram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bullet-train-metro-bus-and-train-all-at-sarai-kale-khan-101613929698035.html
22-02-2021||Delhi||DDA to start work on 26,500 EWS flats, tenders for six projects by March||The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) plans to start work on 26,500 flats for economically weaker sections (EWS), as part of the in-situ redevelopment of slum clusters under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY) by the end of this year. The agency will tender six such projects by the end of March, a senior DDA official said.These projects, located in Rohini, Pitampura, Shalimar Bagh, Dilshad Garden, Pooth Kalan and Haiderpur, will entail the revamp of 10 JJ clusters.There are four clusters with over 4,000 households in Rohini’s sectors 18,19 and 20. Similarly, in Haiderpur and Dilshad Garden, flats will be constructed for 1,991 and 2,645 households respectively.Also Read | DDA receives nearly 31,000 applications for its housing scheme this year“The Detailed Project Report (DPR) of the six is ready. We will float the tender for one of the projects by the end of this month, and the remaining by March-end. Close to 9,600 flats will be constructed under these six projects. Tenders for more in-situ slum rehabilitation projects will be floated in the coming months.”Of the 675 slum clusters in Delhi, 499 are on Central government land, including plots owned by the DDA and the Northern Railways. Under the Centre’s PMAY, the DDA is carrying out in-situ redevelopment of 376 clusters on its land. In 2019, the land-owning agency started the household survey work in 23 slum clusters.Currently, the DDA has three in-situ redevelopment projects underway at Katputhli Colony, Jailorwala Bagh and Kalkaji Extension. A total of 5,990 flats are under-construction in these three projects.A senior DDA official said all the new in-situ rehabilitation projects will be implemented on the Public-Private Partnership (PPP) basis, just like the Katputhli Colony project — the first in-situ project implemented on such an arrangement.In these in-situ slum development projects, DDA plans to hire a private developer who will construct a multi-storeyed housing facility for slum dwellers (or beneficiaries identified through survey) along with a commercial component on the land where the slum exists.The commercial component will be used by the developer to recover the total cost of the project. The land will be leased to the developer, the period of which will be decided by DDA.“Learning from our past experience from Katputhli Colony project, which is likely to be constructed by the end of this year, we eased the development control norms so that the developer can recover the cost of construction and complete the work on time,” said a senior DDA official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dda-to-start-work-on-26-500-ews-flats-tenders-for-six-projects-by-march-101613929697302.html
22-02-2021||Pune||Pune district crosses 4 lakh mark for Covid-19 cases; 1,172 new cases reported in 24 hours||Pune district crossed the four lakh mark for active Covid-19 cases on Sunday, as 1,172 new cases were reported in 24 hours. The district also saw six deaths due to the infection, which puts the death toll at 8,082. The district’s progressive count stands at four lakh, of which 3.82 lakh have recovered, and 10,321 active cases have been reported. The district has crossed the three lakh figure on October 3, with another one lakh cases reported in 140 days. The district has been witnessing a high spike in the number of new cases of Covid-19 for the past one week. With over 10,000 cases active, with patients undergoing treatment for the infection in either hospital or in home isolation, Pune district tops the state with most active cases. This is almost double Thane that has 5,983 active cases and Mumbai with 5,859 active cases. As of Sunday, Pune city amounts to 50% of the cases in the district, with 2,04,422 cases, of which 640 were reported on Sunday. One death was also reported which took the death toll to 4,564. PCMC reported 291 new cases which took its progressive count to 99,887. Three deaths were reported which took the death toll to 1,326. Pune rural reported 241 new cases which took its final count to 96,117. Two deaths were also reported which took the death toll to 2,144.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-crosess-4-lakh-mark-for-active-covid-19-cases-1-172-new-cases-reported-in-24-hours-101613923097074.html
22-02-2021||Pune||Confidence building measures, re-enrolment to improve vaccination numbers among frontline, healthcare workers||With a low turnout for vaccination among frontline workers (FLWs) and healthcare workers (HCWs) in Pune, the administration hopes to ensure more confidence building, and a re-enrolment of those who missed registration, or could not get the vaccine as per schedule. Only five per cent of the FLWs have taken the vaccine in the city, as opposed to 71 per cent in rural Pune. As per data from the district health office, until February 21, only five per cent or 2,895 of the 57,264 registered FLWs have been vaccinated. In PCMC this number stands at 34% of the 12,000 beneficiaries, which is 4,048.Pune rural has recorded 71% of the 14,890 registered FLWs being vaccinated. In terms of health care beneficiaries too, the city lags behind with only 54% of the registered 56,000 beneficiaries being vaccinated/.In PCMC, 67% of the 17, 636 beneficiaries have been vaccinated and 75% of the 32,815 beneficiaries have got the jab in rural Pune. Divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao said, “The vaccination percentage has been low in the city, especially among frontline workers and so we are creating awareness through daily video conferencing and also through media. Also, we have got complaints from private health care workers that many names are missing and there are technical problems with the CoWin app. We will start with the re-enrolment process soon.” Serum Institute to prioritise IndiaSerum Institute’s CEO Adar Poonawalla has said that they have been directed to prioritise the needs of India and also balance the needs of the rest of the world. So far, over 55 million doses have already been sent across the country by the institute. Sunday morning Serum Institute of India’s (SII) Chief Executive officer (CEO) Adar Poonawalla tweeted, “Dear countries & governments, as you await Covishield supplies, I humbly request you to please be patient, Serum has been directed to prioritise the huge needs of India and along with that balance the needs of the rest of the world. We are trying our best”.Until now, SII has delivered 45 million doses directly to the government of India and an additional ten million doses via GAVI. A senior official from the institute said that, “We have had three orders from the government which totals to 45 million doses. The third order supply is ongoing. Also earlier, we were asked to stop the supply to other countries which has now been cleared for 24 countries.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/confidence-building-measures-re-enrolment-to-improve-vaccination-numbers-among-frontline-healthcare-workers-101613922017040.html
22-02-2021||Pune||Night curfew in Pune district from 11pm-6am; hotels, restaurants and bars to shut at 11 pm||The Pune district administration, on Saturday, announced curbs on the movement of residents during the night hours, equivalent to the night curfew that city witnessed during lockdown. Following a meeting with deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao said that in the light of the increasing number of Covid patients in Pune district, there will be restrictions on public movement in the district (including Pune Municipal Corporation, Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation and rural areas) from 11pm to 6 am. However, essential services, such as medical stores and hospitals, milk and vegetable supply, newspaper distribution and transport of food grains, will be excluded from the restrictions. This order will be implemented from Monday, February 22, midnight. Rao also announced that hotels, restaurants and bars will be allowed to be operate only till 11 pm. “Hoteliers will have to manage the timings by advancing the last orders as public movement will be restricted from 11 pm onward,” said Rao. The timings for other shops are unchanged. “We have taken a detailed review of the Covid situation in Pune district in the meeting. As a precautionary measure we have taken some important decisions in this meeting,” said Rao, addressing the media after the meeting. “As an advanced precaution, public movement, except for essential activities, will be prohibited from 11 pm to 6 am. Closing timings of hotels, bars and restaurants will be 11 pm,” said Rao. Earlier, on February 10, Pune municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar had extended the closure timings for bars, restaurants, food courts and banquet halls, till 1 am. Pune Mayor Muralidhar Mohol warned of action against citizens if they are found roaming in the city without valid reasons. “Do not travel or roam around in the city after 11 pm unnecessarily. Strict legal action will be taken against those violating this order. Hotels and bars will have to be closed before 11 pm. Separate detailed guidelines will be issued by PMC regarding this,” Mohol tweeted. “Our business was just coming on track and these new restrictions have been imposed. This deadline will impact our business at least by 10-15 per cent. Though the closing timings of hotels and bars were extended to 1 am, very few areas had customer movement after 11 pm. When such restrictions are imposed people get scared. It will surely impact our business,” said Ganesh Shetty, president, Pune restaurant and hoteliers association. Rajesh Deshmukh, district collector, Pune, has already ordered authorities to conduct surprise inspections at marriage halls, multiplexes, theatres, schools, coaching classes, gardens, religious places, shopping malls, and restaurants, to take action against Covid violations such as not wearing of masks, not following social distancing and improper sanitisation arrangements. Rural Pune also under night curfewThe order on night restrictions of movement will also be applicable to rural parts of Pune besides the city areas. Abhinav Deshmukh, superintendent of Pune Rural Police said, “There will be restrictions on night movements in rural areas as well. That order is applicable to the whole district. Detailed orders will be issued from the collector’s office.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/night-curfew-in-pune-district-from-11pm-6am-hotels-restaurants-and-bars-to-shut-at-11-pm-101613908396369.html
22-02-2021||Jaipur||Hand over 57-kg gold, meant to weigh ex-PM Shastri, to CGST dept: Udaipur court||A court in Rajasthan's Udaipur has ordered the custody of 56.83 kilograms of gold, which was handed over by a local of Chittorgarh to the district collector in 1965 for weighing the then prime minister Lal Bahadur Shastri, be given to the central GST department of the Union government.Former prime minister Shastri could not be weighed with the gold due to his death in Tashkent. The gold, whose market value stands at ₹27.29 crore, is lying in the treasury of the Udaipur collector.Speaking about the background of the case, Praveen Khandelwal, the standing counsel for the Government of India who is representing the CGST department, said one Gunwantlal Anjana of Chhoti Sadri in Chittorgarh claimed that he had given the gold to Ganpatlal Anjana to keep it safe. Ganpatlal claimed that the gold was his and he had handed it over it to the Chittor district collector in 1965 for weighing the then PM.Gunwantlal had filed an FIR alleging breach of trust by Ganpatlal. Acting on the FIR, Chittor police obtained the gold from the collector’s treasury in 1966.Also read: India, Maldives sign 5 deals, EAM hands over 1 lakh doses of Covid-19 vaccinesThe additional sessions court of Udaipur, in its order on January 11, 1975, convicted Ganpatlal of breach of trust and ordered that the gold must be handed over to the Gold Control Officer appointed under the India Defence Rule.As per the rule, enforced from 1 April 1965, any gold present with anyone, if not transformed into ornament within 6 months of possession, will be declared contraband and confiscated by the government. That’s why gold custody was not given to Gunwantlal, said Khandelwal.Later, Ganpatlal challenged his conviction in the Udaipur district court and Gunwantlal appealed against giving away the gold to the Gold Control Officer. In August 1978, an additional district judge of Udaipur acquitted Ganpatlal over the benefit of the doubt and turned down Gunwantlal's plea, upholding the additional sessions court’s 1975 decision.The state government then moved the Rajasthan High Court and appealed against Ganpatlal's acquittal. Gunwantlal also appealed in the HC against the order that gave the gold's custody to the Gold Control Officer. The High Court quashed the appeals of the state government and Gunwantlal on September 14, 2007, said Khandelwal.In 2012, Ganpatlal's son Govardhan Anjana filed a writ petition in the High Court, claiming custody of the gold.Meanwhile, assistant Commissioner, CGST Chittor, also filed an application in the Chief Judicial Magistrate (CJM) court in Udaipur, saying the gold should be handed over to them as per the 1975 order of the additional sessions court.Govardhan also filed a writ before the CJM court, seeking custody of the gold. But the CJM court ruled in favour of the CGST department.Goverdhan then moved the additional district sessions court, Udaipur. On February 17, the district sessions court ordered that the custody of the gold should be handed over to the CGST department.Khandelwal said, “Although the additional district sessions court has given its verdict in favour of the CGST, the matter is still pending before the Rajasthan High Court.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/hand-over-57-kg-gold-meant-to-weigh-ex-pm-shastri-to-cgst-dept-udaipur-court-101613844789299.html
22-02-2021||World||Trump could declare himself 2024 presidential nominee in speech: Report||Former US President Donald Trump is likely to declare himself the “presumptive 2024 nominee” in his first public appearance after leaving office, according to news report by Axios.Trump is scheduled to speak at the Conservative Political Action Conference (CPAC), an annual gathering of conservatives considered to be an essential stop over for Republicans with presidential aspirations. Aides said earlier he was expected to speak on February 28.The former president will declare himself the “presumptive” nominee and is likely to say “I may not have Twitter or the Oval Office, but I’m still in charge”, a report by Axios said, citing top Trump allies, including a long-time adviser, none of whom were identified in the report.The former president has not yet spoken about his post-White House plans in clear terms. But his aides and relatives have all pointed to a possible presidential run in 2024.“We will be back in some form,” Trump had himself said in his last remarks as president on January 20.The former president has kept a low profile since, forced primarily by the loss of his social media accounts that have remained shut since the January 6 insurrection at the US Capitol.But he has lashed out Republican leaders who are seeking to end his influence in the party, such as Mitch McConnell, the minority leader in the Senate, who has been the former president’s most outspoken critic. A tussle is under way for the control of the Republican Party with some leaders like McConnell eager to take it past Trump, and away from his divisive politics.Many others who had criticised him in the immediate aftermath of the Capitol insurrection have since fallen in line. Top House Republican Kevin McCarthy and his No 2. Steve Scalise, have both been to Mar-a-Lago, Trump’s Florida resort that is his home for him now, in a public show of support.The former president remains a dominant force in the party. Nearly 6 out of 10 registered Republicans said Trump should play a dominant role in the party, in a recent poll. And 54% said they will back him in the 2024 primary, a whopping 42 points ahead of former vice-president Mike Pence||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-could-declare-himself-2024-presidential-nominee-speechreport-101614016709079.html
22-02-2021||World||Key senators oppose Neera Tanden’s nomination as Biden’s budget czar||Indian American Neera Tanden’s chances of being confirmed as President Joe Biden’s budget chief suffered a major blow on Monday after two Republican senators, who were most likely to bail her out by compensating for the loss of support from a Democrat, announced she did not have their votes.Tanden has faced opposition for sharp and sometimes offensive remarks she made over the last four years, especially against Republicans. She has called Senator Collins “the worst”; and Senator Mitch McConnell, the top Republican, “Moscow Mitch” and “Voldemort”. Republican Senators Susan Collins and Mitt Romney have broken with the rest of party vote against the party line, and with Democrats. “Neera Tanden has neither the experience nor the temperament to lead this critical agency. Her past actions have demonstrated exactly the kind of animosity that President Biden has pledged to transcend,” Collins said in a statement.“Senator Romney has been critical of extreme rhetoric from prior nominees, and this is consistent with that position. He believes it’s hard to return to comity and respect with a nominee who has issued a thousand mean tweets, ” a spokesperson for Romney said.Tanden’s supporters had looked to them and a few others to compensate for the “No” vote announced by Senator Joe Manchin, a Democrat, last week. Tanden needs the support of all 50 Democrats in the evenly divided 100-member Senate, in the hope of getting past the line, with Vice-President Kamala Harris’s constitutionally provided tie-breaker vote. With the loss of Manchin’s support, Tanden was down to 49 Democrats, and was at the mercy of Republicans to get to 50 votes.Another Indian American, Vivek Murthy, who is Biden’s nominee for Surgeon General, could face headwinds when his starts his confirmation process on Thursday, over earnings from Covid-19 consulting work for private companies. Murthy had advised Biden’s campaign on the pandemic and joined the president-elect’s Covid-19 task force as a co-chair. He is likely to be confirmed, although narrowly.Murthy, who will appear for his confirmation as Surgeon General for a second stint, could face questions about consultancy earnings. He made $2.6 million since January 2020, in Covid-19 related consulting last year, according to ethics documents he filed himself, which were first reported by the Washington.The earnings were from Carnival Corporation’s cruise lines, which have become for a time a major Covid-19, Airbnb’s rental properties and other firms. He also made $522,650 for about three dozen speeches at a range of venues including hospitals and health insurers. Murthy had advised Biden, as a candidate, was a co-chair of the president-elect’s taskforce on the coronavirus pandemic.No senator, from either party, has raised the issue of his earnings yet. But he had a rocky confirmation the last time around, with Republicans targeting him for his position on gun violence which he considers a public health problem. He was confirmed eventually in 2014, a year and a half after being nominated.Murthy’s nomination could run into trouble with Manchin again. The senator is gun rights supporter, and he had voted against confirming him in 2014. This time, a spokesperson told the Washington Post, the senator “has not decided how he will vote”.President Biden has said he is not pulling Tanden’s nomination and said last week he was confident she will be confirmed. The White House is still backing her. “Neera Tanden is an accomplished policy expert who would be an excellent Budget Director and we look forward to the committee votes this week and to continuing to work toward her confirmation through engagement with both parties,” Jen Psaki, the spokesperson, said in a statement on Monday.Tanden has apologised for her past remarks, and repeatedly during the confirmation hearings. “I do think the last several years have been very polarizing and I apologise for my language that has contributed to that,” she said.If confirmed Tanden will become the first Indian American to hold a regular federal cabinet position. Nikki Haley had held a cabinet-rank position as ambassador to the UN in the Trump administration. That post was downgraded after her exit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/key-senators-oppose-neera-tanden-s-nomination-as-biden-s-budget-czar-101614016348889.html
22-02-2021||World||Joe Biden raised $22 million for transition, tripling Donald Trump’s total||President Joe Biden raised $22.1 million to pay for the costs of his transition, far exceeding the $6.5 million his predecessor raised four years ago, according to data released Monday by the Government Services Administration.Biden’s transition was also costlier. He spent $24.4 million through mid-February, while Trump spent $4.7 million through the same period in 2017. Trump’s total did not include any public money.Former President Donald Trump’s refusal to accept the results of the election led to a delay in releasing $6 million in public money designated for presidential transitions. The GSA waited almost three weeks after the Nov. 3 election to ascertain Biden as the apparent winner, freeing up the money and getting his team access to detailed briefing books on government agencies. Biden’s transition team raised $7.3 million between the election and the GSA releasing funds.In addition to federal funds, transition teams can also raise money from the public, with donations limited to $5,000 each. Biden’s campaign also transferred $498,400 in unused campaign funds to the transition.Biden’s transition spending included $16.7 million on payroll and $5 million on travel and events. For Trump’s transition, travel and relocation expenses totaled $1.8 million and payroll spending hit $1 million.Under federal law, transition teams are not required to report detailed information on their expenditures, but rather lump sums spent in certain categories.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-raised-22-million-for-transition-tripling-donald-trump-s-total-101614014446909.html
22-02-2021||World||WHO chief scientist says India's first shipment under COVAX program likely this week||The first shipment from India under COVAX, the global initiative to ensure rapid and equitable access to COVID-19 vaccines for all countries, is likely to roll out this week, WHO Chief Scientist Soumya Swaminathan said on Monday. "Not in the next couple of months. This week. (I think) today or tomorrow, the first shipment from India, from the Serum Institute, will be going out to at least 25 or 30 countries and then we hope that this will be followed by the vaccines also that are being manufactured in India. Many countries around the world are waiting for the distribution to happen as they have been watching vaccination programmes beginning and scaling in high income countries, while their own healthcare workers and other vulnerable groups are still waiting," she said, during a virtual panel discussion. She said this in reply to question whether WHO would start rolling out the COVAX facility officially to other countries in the next couple of months. The panel discussion on 'Immunizing the World' was held during 'BioAsia-2021', the flagship annual life sciences event of the Telangana government. The role being played by India needs to be recognised and the country has risen to the occasion, expanding its huge manufacturing capacity, she said. Observing that "amazing" Research and Development is also happening in India with a lot of innovative products in clinical trials, she hoped that they would also be successful. Asked what it takes for countries to overcome the pandemic, she said it would be solidarity, global collaboration and unity. "Because, it's clear that a pandemic cannot be addressed on a country-by-country or a region-by-region basis," she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/who-chief-scientist-says-india-s-first-shipment-under-covax-likely-this-week-101614013133961.html
22-02-2021||World||A day that will live in infamy: US nears 500,000th Covid-19 death||The United States on Monday closed in on the staggering milestone of 500,000 Covid-19 deaths just over a year to the day since the coronavirus pandemic claimed its first known US victims in Santa Clara County, California.The country had recorded more than 28 million Covid-19 cases and 499,510 lives lost as of Monday morning, according to a Reuters tally of public health data, although daily deaths and hospitalizations have fallen to the lowest level since before the Thanksgiving and Christmas holidays.About 19% of total global coronavirus deaths have occurred in the United States, an outsized figure given that the nation accounts for just 4% of the world's population."These numbers are stunning," Dr. Anthony Fauci, a top infectious disease adviser to President Joe Biden told ABC News' "Good Morning America" program. "If you look back historically, we've done worse than almost any other country and we're a highly developed, rich country."The country's poor performance reflects the lack of a unified, national response last year, when the administration of former President Donald Trump mostly left states to their own devices in tackling the greatest public heath crisis in a century, with the president often in conflict with his own health experts.Biden and Vice President Kamala Harris are set to commemorate the huge loss of life due to Covid-19 later on Monday during an event at the White House that will include a speech by the president, a moment of silence and a candle lighting ceremony.Over the past 12 months, the virus has taken a full year off the average life expectancy in the United States, the biggest decline since World War Two.Sweeping through the country at the beginning of last year, the US epidemic had claimed its first 100,000 lives by May.The death toll doubled by September as the virus ebbed and surged during the summer months.Pandemic-weary Americans, like so many around the world, grappled with the mountain of loss brought by Covid-19 as health experts warned of yet another coronavirus resurgence during the upcoming fall and winter months.Americans lost mothers and fathers, husbands and wives, brothers, sisters and friends to the virus. For many, the grief was amplified by the inability to see loved ones in hospitals or nursing homes and by the physical distancing imposed by authorities to curb the spread.By December, the death toll had reached 300,000 as the United States entered a deadly post holiday season that would claim 230,000 lives in the span of less than three months.With numbers that made the appalling toll early in the pandemic pale by comparison, deaths recorded between December and February accounted for 46% of all US Covid-19 fatalities, even as vaccines finally became available and a monumental effort to inoculate the American public got under way.Despite the grim milestone, the virus appears to have loosened its grip as Covid-19 cases in United States fell for the sixth consecutive week.Fauci cautioned against complacency and urged Americans to continue public health measures such as wearing masks, physical distancing and avoiding crowds while officials race to inoculate the population, particularly with more contagious new variants of the virus circulating."We've got to be really careful and not just say 'OK we're finished now, we're through it," he told ABC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/a-day-that-will-live-in-infamy-us-nears-500-000th-covid-19-death-101614012196677.html
22-02-2021||World||Rockets target US embassy in Iraqi capital, says report||At least three rockets targeted the US embassy on Monday in the high-security Green Zone of Iraq's capital Baghdad, local security sources told AFP.One of them fell within the perimeter of the Green Zone but others landed in surrounding residential neighbourhoods, the security sources said.The attack is the third in a week to target Western diplomatic, military or commercial installations in Iraq after months of relative calm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/rockets-target-us-embassy-in-iraqi-capital-says-report-101614012447178.html
22-02-2021||World||Teachers may play role in in-school Covid-19 transmission: US CDC||Teachers may play an important role in the transmission of Covid-19 within schools, the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) said on Monday, citing a study conducted in elementary schools in a Georgia school district.The report comes after researchers from the agency last month said there was little evidence that schools were spreading Covid-19 infections in the country - based in part on a study of schools in Wisconsin - easing concerns about allowing in-person learning. The Wisconsin study found significantly lower virus spread within schools compared with transmission in the surrounding communities.An investigation involving about 2,600 students and 700 staff members of a Georgia school district's elementary schools showed nine clusters of Covid-19 cases involving 13 educators and 32 students at six elementary schools, the CDC said.Of these, two clusters involved probable teacher-to-teacher transmission that was followed by teacher-to-student transmission in classrooms, the agency said in its Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report.Transmission from teachers resulted in about half of 31 school-related cases, according to the investigation.The study was subject to some limitations including difficulty in determining whether coronavirus transmission happened in school or out in the local community, the agency noted.Distinguishing between the two types of transmission was particularly challenging when the 7-day average number of cases per 100,000 persons exceeded 150, the agency said.The CDC said Covid-19 vaccination of educators should be considered as an additional mitigation measure to be added when available, although not required for reopening schools.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/teachers-may-play-role-in-in-school-covid-19-transmission-us-cdc-101614011575593.html
22-02-2021||World||Prime minister Boris Johnson sets out plan for fully reopening UK in June||UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson pledged to reopen England’s stores and outdoor hospitality from mid-April, as he set out his aim to fully restart the economy from June 21.In a statement to Parliament, Johnson set out four steps to carefully reopen the country after its lockdown, warning there would need to be at least five weeks between each to judge the impact on infections and deaths.“The threat remains substantial,” said Johnson. “It is so crucial that this road map should be cautious, but also irreversible. The end is in sight and a wretched year will give way to a spring and summer that is very different and incomparably better to the picture we see today.’Johnson is already facing pressure to move faster, after the economy endured its worst recession in more than 300 years. Government guidance asking people to work from home where possible will remain in place for another four months, and the request will be examined as part of a review of social distancing measures.The relaxation of England’s third national lockdown will begin with schools returning for all pupils on March 8, followed by outdoor gatherings of either six people or two households outdoors from March 29.From April 12 at the earliest, large sectors of the economy could reopen: non-essential shops, hairdressers and nail salons, outdoor attractions including zoos and theme parks, indoor gyms and swimming pools, and hospitality for outdoor service. Self-catered holiday accommodation would also open at this point.UK’s Timeline Out of Lockdown: When the Rules Can Be RelaxedFrom May 17 at the earliest, indoor hospitality and hotels reopen, as well as entertainment venues such as cinemas and children’s play areas. International travel could also resume from this date, although this remains subject to a government review.June 21 is the earliest date by which all limits on social contact can be lifted and the final sectors of the economy, such as nightclubs, could reopen. Each move will be taken uniformly across England.But four tests must be met before the government can move onto each step. These are:ReviewsJohnson also announced four reviews, including into whether proof of vaccines or negative tests could help people gain access to venues or workplaces. Separately, pilot tests will start in April to look at whether events can be run with larger crowd sizes and reduced social distancing.A taskforce will be set up to explore how to facilitate greater inbound and outbound travel while still managing the risk of variants, and there will be a review of social distancing measures such as face coverings.Britain’s Next Answer to Covid-19 Is to Prepare to Live With ItEngland has been under lockdown since early January, with schools closed and shops, pubs and restaurants shuttered. With cases and deaths now falling rapidly, an influential group of Conservative backbenchers wants to see all restrictions lifted by the end of April.That pressure is mounting amid falling case numbers and a significant acceleration of theUK’s vaccination program, with all adults to be offered a shot by the end of July and everyone over 50 by mid-April.One in three adults -- more than 17.5 million people -- have had a vaccine as of Sunday. Health authorities reported 9,834 new cases on Sunday, down from the peak week in January when cases averaged almost 60,000 a day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/prime-minister-boris-johnson-sets-out-plan-for-fully-reopening-uk-in-june-101614011259854.html
22-02-2021||World||Italy extends ban on movement between regions until late march||Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi has extended a ban on movement between the country’s 20 regions for another month -- until late March -- as his new government tries to step up a vaccination campaign to counter the pandemic.A cabinet meeting chaired by Draghi prolonged travel curbs between regions until March 27 and maintained a 10 p.m. curfew, according to a statement. The government also introduced a ban on visits between households in the highest-risk areas.Draghi has made speeding up vaccinations a priority for his administration, with a plan to draw on civil protection officials, the armed forces and volunteers. He’s aiming to kick-start an economy crippled by the pandemic as well as a year of national and regional lockdowns.The premier is weighing whether to make changes to Italy’s three-tiered system of restrictions based on regional conditions. The rules come up for renewal on March 5 as the pandemic has claimed more than 95,000 lives in a country trapped in the worst recession since World War II, with debt at almost 160% of output.“Unfortunately, given the variants circulating, it’s indispensable that we continue with the restrictions,” Health Minister Roberto Speranza told regional leaders Sunday, Ansa news agency reported.Ministers have also studied demands from regional chiefs including automatic compensation for businesses hit by closures and a review of the criteria for prompting new curbs, in order to allow more businesses to remain open.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/italy-extends-ban-on-movement-between-regions-until-late-march-101614001753382.html
22-02-2021||World||Chinese blogger detained over posts on casualties in Galwan clash||Police in the eastern Chinese city of Nanjing have detained a popular blogger over social media posts regarding military casualties of Galwan valley clash with India.The Nanjing Bureau of Public Security said on Saturday that Qiu Ziming, 38, was charged with "picking quarrels and provoking trouble", a vague crime that carries a sentence of up to 10 years in prison.Also Read: Day after PLA deaths are announced, hate messages target Indian embassyThe authorities accused him of demeaning military casualties of the border clash, South China Morning Post reported.Qiu, a former reporter with the weekly Economic Observer, had 2.5 million followers on China's Twitter-like platform Weibo when he published two posts on Friday that suggested a commander survived the clashes because he was the highest-ranking officer there.He also suggested that more Chinese soldiers might have been killed in the conflict than those disclosed by the authorities.On Friday, the Chinese military ended its months-long silence to say that four soldiers - Chen Hongjun, 33, Xiao Siyuan, 24, Wang Zhuoran, 24 and Chen Xiangrong, 18 - were killed in the conflict in the Galwan Valley in June. Their commanding officer Qi Fabao, 41, was badly wounded.Also Read: Beijing on diplomatic charge amid pullbackState media also released footage of the clash showing Qi walking with open arms towards Indian troops and trying to stop them.Earlier in February, Russian news agency TASS had claimed that 45 Chinese soldiers were killed in the clashes at the Galwan Valley.In a commentary on Saturday, state news agency Xinhua accused Qiu of "damaging the reputation of heroes, hurting nationalistic feelings and poisoning patriotic hearts" with his sensational posts.The Chinese Communist Party has long been accused of suppressing the idea that could undermine the sweeping authority.In just the past few years, the government has attempted to muzzle critics by making them disappear without a trace, ordering people to physically barge into their houses, or locking up those close to critics as a kind of blackmail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinese-blogger-detained-over-posts-on-casualties-in-galwan-clash-101614009397208.html
22-02-2021||World||Stormy Daniels appeal rejected by Supreme Court in defamation suit against Trump||The US Supreme Court turned away an appeal by adult film star Stormy Daniels, refusing to revive her lawsuit accusing former President Donald Trump of defaming her on Twitter.Trump’s 2018 tweet suggested that Daniels, whose real name is Stephanie Clifford, was lying when she said an unknown man threatened her in a parking lot in 2011 after she agreed to cooperate with a magazine story about what she says was her sexual relationship with Trump.A federal appeals court threw out the suit, saying Clifford’s allegations fell short of meeting the standard for defamation under Texas law. The Supreme Court made no comment Monday in refusing to hear her appeal.Clifford helped prepare a sketch of the man in 2018 when she went public with her story. Trump later retweeted a post that put the sketch next to a photo of Clifford’s ex-husband with a mocking message suggesting the two men resembled each other.“A sketch years later about a nonexistent man,” Trump said in his retweet. “A total con job, playing the Fake News Media for Fools (but they know it)!”The San Francisco-based 9th US Circuit Court of Appeals said Trump’s tweet was a statement of opinion that couldn’t be grounds for a lawsuit.“Because the tweet juxtaposing the two images was displayed immediately below Mr. Trump’s tweet, the reader was provided with the information underlying the allegedly defamatory statement and was free to draw his or her own conclusions,” the three-judge panel said.Clifford’s appeal said that, because she sued in federal court, the 9th Circuit shouldn’t have applied a Texas law designed to prohibit strategic lawsuits that threaten speech rights. Trump urged the Supreme Court to reject the appeal without a hearing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/stormy-daniels-appeal-rejected-by-supreme-court-in-defamation-suit-against-trump-101614006499454.html
22-02-2021||World||UK temporarily bans some Boeing 777s from its airspace after Denver incident||Britain temporarily banned Boeing 777 aircraft with Pratt & Whitney 4000-112 engines from entering its airspace after a jet with that type of engine shed debris over Denver, in the United States, at the weekend."After issues this weekend, Boeing B777s with Pratt & Whitney 4000-112 series engines will be temporarily banned from entering the UK airspace," UK transport minister Grant Shapps said on twitter on Monday.Britain's regulator, the Civil Aviation Authority, noted on twitter that the particular configuration is not used by any UK airlines. It is operated by airlines in the U.S., Japan and South Korea, where authorities have also stopped its use, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-temporarily-bans-some-boeing-777s-from-its-airspace-after-denver-incident-101614003670783.html
22-02-2021||World||EU prepares sanctions on four Russians over Navalny, diplomats say||European Union foreign ministers agreed on Monday to prepare sanctions on four senior Russian officials in a mainly symbolic response to the jailing of Kremlin critic Alexei Navalny, three EU diplomats said.Ministers reached political agreement during their meeting on Monday after France, Germany, Poland and the Baltics urged the 27-member bloc to send a message to President Vladimir Putin that debate and protest must be allowed in Russia.No names were discussed during the meeting in Brussels, but one diplomat said the head of Russia's Investigative Committee, which handles probes into major crimes, the director of prisons, the director of Russia's National Guard and the prosecutor general were to be targeted with travel bans and asset freezes.Despite calls by Navalny's closest aides for the EU to target members of Russia's business elite close to Putin, EU governments have argued in favour of targeting senior officials because such sanctions can better withstand legal challenges.Navalny was detained after returning to Russia from Germany last month and jailed on Feb. 2 for violating the terms of parole on what he says was a politically motivated conviction.Navalny had been recovering in Germany from being poisoned with a military-grade nerve agent and has accused the Kremlin of trying to kill him, a charge Moscow denies.Russia accuses the EU of meddling in its affairs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/eu-prepares-sanctions-on-four-russians-over-navalny-diplomats-say-101614002350696.html
22-02-2021||World||IMF says Covid-19 might widen wealth differences in Europe||The Covid-19 pandemic is likely to widen wealth gaps in Europe unless policymakers help end the health crisis globally, support economies until the pandemic is over and invest in making economies greener, the International Monetary Fund said.In a speech to a European Parliament conference on Monday, IMF Managing Director Kristalina Georgieva praised EU governments for putting more than 3 trillion euros in fiscal support for firms and households, including job-retention schemes that helped more than 54 million workers."But the path to recovery is ... uneven... because of the difference in starting positions, economic structure and capacity to respond, causing inequalities to grow both across and within countries," she said.She said in the 27-nation EU, countries that are traditional tourist destinations, such as Spain, Greece, and Italy, contracted more than 9% in 2020 compared to an average contraction of 6.4% across the bloc.According to IMF forecasts, by the end of 2022, per capita income for central and eastern Europe would be 3.8% below pre-crisis projections, compared with a shortfall of just 1.3% for advanced EU economies.Economists have warned that such divergence would make the economic management of the EU, including the monetary policy of the European Central Bank more difficult and would increase the risk of crises down the road."Gradual withdrawal has to follow, not precede, a durable exit from the health crisis. It matters internally, and also in terms of spillovers - a premature tightening of policy when worse-hit economies are still deeply fragile could exacerbate divergence between countries," Georgieva said.EU finance ministers want to keep the fiscal stimulus for now, but will hold talks in the second quarter on when to start shifting from the current blanket support for all businesses to more a targeted approach as the economy recovers, and how to deal with a wave of bankruptcies expected as a result.The EU agreed last year to jointly borrow 750 billion euros and spend it via grants and loans on reforms and green and digital investment that would boost potential growth of those most at risk of falling behind.Georgieva said the coordination of such green and digital investment was the most important action in the long run."Our analysis shows that this could boost global GDP over a 15-year period by about 0.7 percent each year, creating millions of new jobs," she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/imf-says-covid-19-might-widen-wealth-differences-in-europe-101614002876777.html
22-02-2021||World||US Supreme Court turns away Republican appeals on Presidential election rules||The US Supreme Court turned away two Republican appeals over the deadlines for mail ballots in Pennsylvania, declining to use a lingering dispute over the 2020 election to reset the rules for future presidential contests.The rebuff leaves intact a Pennsylvania Supreme Court ruling that allowed three extra days for ballots to arrive in November because of the pandemic and anticipated mail delays. Republicans said the ruling usurped the power of the state legislature in violation of the US Constitution.Republicans filed the appeals in October, seeking to help Donald Trump’s re-election bid. The Supreme Court declined to intervene before the Nov. 3 election, eventually won by Democrat Joe Biden, but three conservative justices indicated at the time they thought the state court had overstepped.The power of state judges to reshape voting rules has been a recurring theme in presidential-election litigation, playing a central role in the 2000 Bush v. Gore case and in multiple 2020 clashes. Republicans say courts are limited by a US constitutional provision that lets state legislatures set the voting rules.Pennsylvania allowed no-excuse mail-in voting for the first time in 2020. A measure passed in 2019 by the Republican-controlled state legislature and signed by the Democratic governor said those ballots had to be received by 8:00 p.m. on Election Day, Nov. 3.No Fast TrackIn extending the deadline to Nov. 6, the Pennsylvania Supreme Court pointed to a state constitutional clause that guarantees a “free and equal” election. The ruling also required elections officials to presume that any ballot received by Nov. 6 was mailed on time, even if it lacked a legible postmark.State officials said fewer than 10,000 ballots were received during the three-day period after Election Day, a small fraction of the number Trump would have needed to overturn Biden’s 80,555-vote win in the state.The Supreme Court on Oct. 28 refused to fast-track the case for a pre-election ruling. In a statement accompanying that order, Justice Samuel Alito agreed that that the issue couldn’t be resolved before the Nov. 3 election but said there was a “strong likelihood” that the Pennsylvania court ruling was unconstitutional.“The provisions of the federal Constitution conferring on state legislatures, not state courts, the authority to make rules governing federal elections would be meaningless if a state court could override the rules adopted by the legislature simply by claiming that a state constitutional provision gave the courts the authority to make whatever rules it thought appropriate for the conduct of a fair election,” Alito wrote.Justices Clarence Thomas and Neil Gorsuch joined Alito’s statement. Another conservative, Justice Brett Kavanaugh, expressed similar views days earlier in a Wisconsin case.Chief Justice John Roberts has split with his fellow conservatives on the issue. Although Roberts has voted to curb the power of federal judges in election litigation, he suggested in the Wisconsin case that state courts must be given latitude to apply their own constitutions.The newest justice, Amy Coney Barrett, didn’t take part when the court issued its Oct. 28 order.The court’s three liberal justices -- Stephen Breyer, Sonia Sotomayor and Elena Kagan -- have backed the power of both state and federal judges to ease voting restrictions, particularly during the pandemic.The extension was challenged by the Pennsylvania Republican Party and two leading GOP state senators, President Pro Tempore Joseph Scarnati and Majority Leader Jake Corman. In their appeal, Scarnati and Corman argued that the state court “substituted its will for the will of the General Assembly.”Pennsylvania Attorney General Josh Shapiro defended the extension. He wrote that the constitutional framers “in granting state legislatures the power to prescribe election rules, did not intend to hermetically seal those legislatures from all scrutiny by the co-equal branches of state government.”The cases are Republican Party of Pennsylvania v. Degraffenreid, 20-542, and Corman v. Pennsylvania Democratic Party, 20-574.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-supreme-court-turns-away-republican-appeals-on-presidential-election-rules-101614005642639.html
22-02-2021||World||America's pandemic toll: In one year, half a million lives||Just one year ago, America had no idea.Life in February 2020 still felt normal. Concern was building about a mystery respiratory illness that had just been named Covid-19. There was panic buying, and a sense of trepidation. Yet it was tempered by a large dose of American optimism. The coronavirus still felt like a foreign problem, even as US authorities recorded the country’s first known death from the virus.Precisely a year later, America is hurtling toward a horrifying milestone of 500,000 deaths from Covid-19.A relentless march of death and tragedy has warped time and memory. It became easy to forget the shocking images, so many day after day, of scenes once unthinkable in a country of such wealth and power. As the year unfolded, Associated Press photographers formed a pictorial record of suffering, emotion and resilience. It shows the year that changed America.Looking back, we can see it happened in phases.——-In the beginning, the crisis felt far away.Last February, Americans still greeted each other with handshakes and commuted to work in crowded public transportation. Children were still at school in actual classrooms. Hollywood icon Tom Hanks walked the red carpet at the Oscars, not knowing a month later he and his wife would contract Covid-19. Baseball spring training drew the usual crowds, without a face mask in sight.But an ominous cruise ship with COVID-infected passengers circled off the coast of California. Within weeks, the Grand Princess - and the initial efforts by the state and the federal governments to bar it from coming ashore - became a symbol of America’s misguided belief that it could keep the disease out.Words like shutdown and social distancing were not yet part of our national vocabulary in those early days. Few of us wore masks as we stood in long lines to stockpile groceries and cleared the shelves of toilet paper.—-Heartbreak and despair arrived quickly.Nightmarish scenes we had witnessed in China and Italy reached America, and the nation snapped to attention. Nursing homes near Seattle became the sites of the first deadly US outbreak. We watched the elderly and frail suffer alone: An octogenarian with Covid-19, stretched out in a hospital bed, blowing her family a kiss through a window.The World Health Organization declared the crisis a pandemic in March, and everything from college campuses to corporate headquarters cleared out. The NCAA announced that the rite of spring for so many Americans — its college basketball tournament — would be played before largely empty arenas, and then abruptly canceled it.Dr. Anthony Fauci, the nation's leading expert on infectious disease, became a household name in daily news conferences. When he estimated in March that 100,000 to 200,000 Americans could die from the virus, horror was tempered by total disbelief. President Donald Trump touted hydroxychloroquine as a “game changer” but medical experts disagreed.American hustle and bustle came to a standstill as hotspots exploded across the country. The typically jam-packed Los Angeles freeways emptied into eerie stretches of open road. The lights stayed on in Times Square but its legendary energy and crowds vanished. April felt like Armageddon in New York City; ambulances constantly blared down deserted streets, body bags were forklifted into refrigerated trucks that parked outside hospitals where they served as makeshift morgues and stark symbols of death.Aerial footage captured by AP showed another unthinkable sight: a mass grave in New York City for unclaimed bodies of Covid-19 victims. Workers in hazmat suits were seen lowering wooden coffins, stacked neatly on top of each other, into deep trenches dug in a potter’s field off the coast of the Bronx.We marveled at the heroism of healthcare workers and tried to show our gratitude; New Yorkers clapped and cheered and banged pots each night at 7 pm to honor those doctors and nurses.We mourned the nonstop trauma they absorbed on the frontlines.Afraid and exhausted, they battled to save the sick and vowed not to let victims die alone. Inside hospital rooms, where countless patients had no family to comfort them, the grim task of offering solace fell to the overworked and emotionally drained doctors, nurses and hospital chaplains. Some held back tears as they offered non-stop comfort and prayers. “There’s so much death right now, it piles up on you, it feels heavy,” said a chaplain in Georgia.——-The reality that America had become the global epicenter of modern history’s deadliest pandemic crashed into focus.Life moved online: everything from work and school to doctors appointments, birthday parties, weddings — and funerals.It became clear that no one was safe. But some were at far greater risk. Racial disparities in who contracted the virus played out across America as data showed that Black and Latino people were disproportionately affected by the virus and were disproportionately dying of it.Catching Covid-19 became just one of many concerns as the pandemic shut society, forcing businesses to close and unemployment to skyrocket. Paychecks shrank or disappeared altogether for millions, and harrowing portraits of hunger emerged across the country as Americans lined up at food banks, many for the first time in their lives.Science mixed with politics, deepening a national divide and adding to the stress of a nation overwhelmed. Protests against racial injustice sent people, most of them wearing masks, into the streets.Amid the upside-downness of life, we sought normalcy. Restaurants in some places hung their “open” signs and refused to abide by stay-at-home orders, welcoming customers willing to dine inside. Others came up with creative al fresco options. In the parking lot of one California restaurant, a couple brought their own table and even fine china to enjoy Italian takeout.——-Then came some glimmers of hope.Amid escalating loss, vaccines arrived in mid-December, kicking off the biggest vaccination effort in US history. It felt like the first good news in a doomed year. As doctors and nurses got the first shots, some cheered. Others wept, the constant trauma and sorrow merging with hope in one indescribable cathartic moment.As vaccine supply picked up — slowly — many of the country’s amusement parks and stadiums, after months vacant, reopened as vaccination mega sites.Holidays, so often a time of hope, brought more suffering. Empty chairs at family tables were a painful reminder of lost loved ones. Millions of Americans ignored official pleas to avoid travel and gatherings, making the holidays a catalyst for new infections. Surge upon surge of new cases followed Thanksgiving and then Christmas and New Year's Eve, with each day seemingly setting new records for infections.As the country and the world bid goodbye, and good riddance, to 2020 it became clear that 2021, at least the early months, would look pretty similar.Politics shifted with President Joe Biden taking over from Trump. After four years of chaos and controversy, the new president brought a jarring sense of calm to national politics. Still, vaccine delays persist, and it’s not clear if America is winning its war against the virus.The Covid-19 death toll is not stopping at 500,000, and the virus has mutated countless times, with some variants easier to spread and harder to protect against.We wonder, what will our new normal look like? Will we ever again swarm through amusement parks or pack into movie theaters or hold huge business conferences or crowd Times Square for the ball drop to mark the end of another year?The deadliest year in American history has taught us that only time will tell.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/americas-pandemic-toll-in-one-year-half-a-million-lives-101614001315763.html
22-02-2021||World||Boris Johnson set to take England out of lockdown: All you need to know||UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson will on Monday make a slew of announcements to gradually take the country out of the coronavirus lockdown that it has been under for over a month now. The UK was put under fresh lockdown on January 4 after new variants of coronavirus were found in parts of England.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageAs many as 9,834 fresh cases of the virus were reported in the country on Sunday, down from the peak week in January when cases averaged almost 60,000 a day. More than 17.5 million people have received their first dose of the vaccine.Here is all you need to know about the expected announcements that would take UK out of lockdown:1. On Monday, Johnson will tell the House of Commons that as of March 8, schools will finally reopen across England, British government officials said, according to news agency Bloomberg.2. Very limited return of outdoor social interaction will be allowed from March 29. People will be allowed to meet one-on-one to sit down for a coffee or picnic outdoors, and after-school activities outside can restart, officials said. The PM is expected to announce that outdoor gatherings of either six people or two households can take place.Also Read: U.K.’s Johnson to say all schools in England to open from March 83. Vaccines Minister Nadhim Zahawi said that the expected announcements were a part of a cautious, slow and deliberate reopening. “We have to be careful, we want it to be sustainable,” he said, according to Sky News.4. Downing Street stressed on the point that they wanted to give something to elderly and vulnerable people, now vaccinated, who have been kept apart from their families for nearly a year, officials said. However, if the Covid-19 situation were to worsen in the country, these relaxations would be pushed back and lockdown reimposed, they added.5. In an emailed statement released Sunday night, Johnson said the government would be “cautious” in its approach “so that we do not undo the progress we have achieved so far.” “Our priority has always been getting children back into school which we know is crucial for their education as well as their mental and physical wellbeing, and we will also be prioritizing ways for people to reunite with loved ones safely,” the statement read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/boris-johnson-set-to-take-england-out-of-lockdown-all-you-need-to-know-101614005362137.html
22-02-2021||World||US Supreme Court allows release of Trump tax returns||The US Supreme Court on Monday paved the way for a New York City prosecutor to obtain former President Donald Trump's tax returns and other financial records as part of a criminal investigation, a blow to his quest to conceal details of his finances.The justices rebuffed Trump's request to put on hold an Oct. 7 lower court ruling directing the former Republican president's longtime accounting firm, Mazars USA, to comply with a subpoena to turn over the materials to a grand jury convened by Manhattan District Attorney Cyrus Vance, a Democrat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-supreme-court-allows-release-of-trump-tax-returns-101614004815817.html
22-02-2021||World||Explained: Iran restricts UN atomic agency to pressure West||Iran will begin restricting the ability of United Nations nuclear inspectors to monitor Tehran's nuclear program. It's part of the Islamic Republic's efforts to pressure European nations and the U.S. into providing the sanctions relief it received under its collapsing 2015 deal with world powers.Full terms of the restrictions remain unclear. But any limit on the ability of inspectors to keep track of Tehran's program raises the risks surrounding what has become one of the Middle East's most sensitive issues since then-President Donald Trump unilaterally withdrew America from the accord in 2018.Meanwhile, an interim deal reached this weekend between Tehran and the International Atomic Energy Agency allowing inspectors to continue their work for up to three months will expire in the middle of campaigning for Iran's next president. That adds uncertainty for the West on who it will see across the table in any negotiations — and what they can expect.HOW IS IRAN LIMITING INSPECTORS?Iran's parliament passed a bill in December requiring the government to limit its cooperation with the IAEA and push its nuclear program beyond the limits of the 2015 nuclear deal. After being modified by a constitutional watchdog under Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, the bill became law. Iran then began enriching uranium up to 20% purity, a technical step away from weapons-grade levels, and spinning advanced centrifuges — things both barred by the deal.Iran then threatened, citing the bill, to withdraw from its “Additional Protocol” with the IAEA, a confidential agreement granting the U.N. inspectors enhanced powers to visit facilities and watch Iran's program. IAEA Director-General Rafael Grossi traveled to Iran over the weekend to negotiate.Grossi offered few details on how access was limited on his return to Vienna, though Iranian Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif said the IAEA would be blocked from accessing its network of surveillance cameras at nuclear sites. The Atomic Energy Organization of Iran, Tehran's civilian nuclear agency, published a statement early Monday in Farsi clarifying that it would keep the footage for three months, then hand it over to the IAEA if granted sanctions relief."Otherwise, it will be deleted forever," the agency said.Grossi said the IAEA will continue to have the same number of inspectors on the ground. However, blocking access to IAEA cameras means the agency can't monitor Iranian actions when those inspectors aren't physically at a site.The new agreement between the IAEA and Iran also affects inspectors’ ability to conduct so-called “snap” inspections of nuclear sites, Grossi said. The director-general suggested some form of such inspections would continue to be allowed, though “not the same” as before. He didn’t elaborate further and Iran hasn’t explained the change.WHY IS IRAN DOING THIS?After facing years of what the Trump administration described as a maximum-pressure campaign, Tehran now wants to leverage its own pressure on European nations and President Joe Biden, who has said he's willing to return to the nuclear deal. The sanctions it faces lock it out of international financial markets and bar it from selling its crude oil abroad. Iran's economy has cratered in the meantime as inflation remains unchecked and its rial currency suffers. The coronavirus pandemic has only worsened those woes.So far, the first weeks of Biden's administration have seen him focus largely on U.S. domestic matters while signaling a willingness to redeploy American troops in the Mideast elsewhere to counter China and Russia. Restricting IAEA inspections, a cornerstone of ensuring Iran's nuclear program is peaceful, provides Iran a way to grab the West's attention.WHAT DOES THIS MEAN FOR NEGOTIATIONS?Iran insists it wants a return to the 2015 nuclear deal as is. However, provisions of the accord already have begun to expire, such as a restriction on Iran's ability to buy arms from abroad. That has worried Iran's Gulf Arab neighbors, who long have been suspicious of the Islamic Republic's regional intentions.Biden, while saying he wants to return to the deal if Iran complies with its terms, also has pledged to counter what he described as “destabilizing activities” in the region.Iran's ballistic missile program, its support of regional militias and other concerns were not part of the 2015 nuclear deal. The Obama administration at the time said it hoped the deal would lead to further agreements with Iran. Trump cited their absence in part as his decision to withdraw from the accord. Trying to bring that into negotiations — or trying to include Gulf Arab countries or Iranian archrival Israel in those talks — could derail them before they begin.WHAT ARE THE RISKS?The longer negotiations go on, the higher the likelihood the faces on Iran's side of the table will change. Iran faces a presidential election in June and a public disenchanted with President Hassan Rouhani and his allies who struck the accord. Rouhani, a cleric who is a relative moderate in Iran's theocratic government, is term limited from running again. While Khamenei has final say on all matters of state, those elected in Iran do affect the country's policy.Without success at the negotiating table, Iran could bar IAEA inspectors or withdraw from the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty. North Korea, which now has nuclear weapons, is the only country to ever withdraw from the treaty. Iran long has insisted its nuclear program is for peaceful purposes. However, Iran’s intelligence minister warned in February that the West could push it toward building a nuclear weapon.If Iran moves toward seeking an atomic weapon, that also could invite military action from Israel, which has twice bombed Mideast nuclear facilities in the past to block Iraq and Syria from obtaining the bomb. Already, an Iranian nuclear facility suffered a sabotage attack and a scientist was gunned down in an assault last year, incidents Tehran blamed on Israel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/explained-iran-restricts-un-atomic-agency-to-pressure-west-101614000130639.html
22-02-2021||World||UN to rich nations: Don't undermine Covax vaccine program||The head of the World Health Organization pleaded with rich countries on Monday to check before ordering additional Covid-19 vaccine shots for themselves whether that undermines efforts to get vaccine shots to poorer nations.Wealthy nations have snapped up several billion vaccine doses while some countries in the developing world have little or none. European nations have given financial support to the UN-backed Covax effort to get vaccines to the world’s most vulnerable people and are considering sharing some of their own doses — though they haven't specified when.On Friday, leaders of the Group of Seven industrial powers said they would accelerate global vaccine development and deployment and support “affordable and equitable access to vaccines” and treatments for Covid-19. They cited a collective $7.5 billion from the G-7 to U.N.-backed efforts.WHO Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus thanked the G-7 countries for their “significant” pledges. But he said after talks Monday with German President Frank-Walter Steinmeier that “even if you have the money, if you cannot use the money to buy vaccines … having the money doesn’t mean anything.”He said some rich countries’ approaches to manufacturers to secure more vaccines are “affecting the deals with Covax, and even the amount that was allocated for Covax was reduced because of this.” He didn’t name those countries or give other details.Tedros added that rich countries need to “cooperate in respecting the deals that Covax did” and make sure before they seek more vaccines that their requests don’t undermine those deals."But I don’t think they’re asking that question,” he said.Tedros, who has previously warned that the world faces a “catastrophic moral failure” if Covid-19 vaccines are not distributed fairly, said he understands the political pressures leaders in high-income countries face.They should, he added, tell voters that “the best way to protect you is not only to vaccinate you, but vaccinate the rest of the world, share the vaccine with the rest of the world.”Tedros underlined the importance of using every opportunity to step up vaccine production “because with increased production, the pie is increased, then there is a better volume to share.”“Otherwise, with shortages, sharing is difficult,” he said. “And that's exactly what's happening now.”The 27-nation European Union is among the regions where authorities face pressure over a sluggish start to vaccination efforts. The bloc secured deals last week for millions of additional vaccines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/un-to-rich-nations-don-t-undermine-covax-vaccine-program-101614000778740.html
22-02-2021||World||Malaysia to build 5G network itself to speed up service launch||Malaysia will build 5G infrastructure itself instead of relying on private telecom carriers as it seeks to accelerate the roll-out of high-speed services.Companies including Telekom Malaysia Bhd. and Huawei Technologies Co. are expected to play a significant role once the work begins “as soon as possible” to have the network available by end-2021, Communications and Multimedia Minister Saifuddin Abdullah said in a group interview on Monday.“We want to be among the first Asean member states to roll out 5G deployment and not just limit ourselves to 5G test labs,” Saifuddin said. “It is very important for investment, and this is where companies like Huawei will play a very, very significant role.”The government’s decision to build the network itself was made for a simple reason that it would be faster, he said. This was after the government considered the options including issuing tenders and asking the main carriers to form a consortium, he added.Prime Minister Muhyiddin Yassin on Friday announced that Malaysia would invest 15 billion ringgit ($3.7 billion) over 10 years in the 5G network. The government will set up a special purpose vehicle that will own the spectrum and manage the network, he said.Malaysia is backing Huawei for its 5G development, something that has proved controversial in other nations after the previous U.S. administration of President Donald Trump barred the telecom giant from 5G, citing the risk of state-sponsored spying -- allegations the company has repeatedly denied.Under the previous government, Malaysia said it would forgo revenue from spectrum auctions and instead allocate airwaves to a consortium of carriers that would be chosen via a tender process. But in June last year, Saifuddin revoked an order to divvy up 5G airwaves among several carriers including Telekom Malaysia, citing transparency as well as technical and legal issues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/malaysia-to-build-5g-network-itself-to-speed-up-service-launch-101614000149678.html
22-02-2021||World||Republican Senator Susan Collins to oppose Neera Tanden's nomination||The White House said President Joe Biden stands behind Neera Tanden’s nomination as budget director, even as opposition from Republican Senator Susan Collins made Tanden’s already fraught path to confirmation even more difficult.“Neera Tanden is an accomplished policy expert who would be an excellent Budget Director and we look forward to the committee votes this week and to continuing to work toward her confirmation through engagement with both parties,” White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki said Monday, after Collins announced her opposition.Psaki’s statement was similar to the message the White House sent after Senator Joe Manchin, a West Virginia Democrat, said he too would vote against Tanden, meaning she would need support of at least one Republican to be successful in the Senate, which is divided 50-50 along party lines. Collins is one of the Senate’s most centrist Republicans, so her opposition is a significant setback for the White House.“Congress has to be able to trust the OMB director to make countless decisions in an impartial manner, carrying out the letter of the law and congressional intent,” Collins, a moderate from Maine, said in a Monday morning statement. “Neera Tanden has neither the experience nor the temperament to lead this critical agency.”Biden senior adviser Cedric Richmond told NPR Monday that the president still believed Tanden could be confirmed, despite opposition from Collins and Manchin.“You named two out of 100, so there are 98 left and we’re going to continue to make the case for her, and she’s going to continue her meetings and her outreach that she’s been doing,” Richmond said. She’s immensely qualified for the position, and the president believes in her.”Tanden, who has led the liberal think-tank Center for American Progress, faces strong Republican opposition over some of her sarcastic social media postings.Collins cited Tanden’s posts as part of the reason for her opposition.“Tanden’s decision to delete more than a thousand tweets in the days before her nomination was announced raises concerns about her commitment to transparency,” she said, adding, “Should Congress need to review documents or actions taken by OMB, we must have confidence that the Director will be forthcoming.”Collins also said Tanden’s “past actions have demonstrated exactly the kind of animosity that President Biden has pledged to transcend.”During her nomination hearing before the Senate Budget Committee, Tanden was chastised by Chairman Bernie Sanders for her past tweets and she pledged to refrain from making personal attacks -- such as those she had directed at Sanders in the past.It wasn’t enough for Collins.“I believe her overtly partisan statements will have a toxic and detrimental impact on the important working relationship between members of Congress and the next director of the Office of Management and Budget,” Collins said Monday.If Tanden’s nomination fails, that could further delay the development of Biden’s fiscal 2022 federal budget proposal, which is already behind schedule and which is the first step in the funding process for the next fiscal year beginning Oct. 1. The OMB director is also in charge of promulgating regulations and acts as a liaison between the White House and federal agencies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/republican-senator-susan-collins-to-oppose-neera-tanden-s-nomination-101614000232012.html
22-02-2021||World||Australia says no further Facebook, Google amendments as final vote nears||Australia will not alter legislation that would make Facebook and Alphabet Inc's Google pay news outlets for content, a senior lawmaker said on Monday, as Canberra neared a final vote on whether to pass the bill into law.Australia and the tech giants have been in a stand-off over the legislation widely seen as setting a global precedent.Other countries including Canada and Britain have already expressed interest in taking some sort of similar action.Facebook has protested the laws. Last week it blocked all news content and several state government and emergency department accounts, in a jolt to the global news industry, which has already seen its business model upended by the titans of the technological revolution.Talks between Australia and Facebook over the weekend yielded no breakthrough.As Australia's senate began debating the legislation, the country's most senior lawmaker in the upper house said there would be no further amendments."The bill as it stands ... meets the right balance," Simon Birmingham, Australia's Minister for Finance, told Australian Broadcasting Corp Radio.The bill in its present form ensures "Australian-generated news content by Australian-generated news organisations can and should be paid for and done so in a fair and legitimate way".The laws would give the government the right to appoint an arbitrator to set content licencing fees if private negotiations fail.While both Google and Facebook have campaigned against the laws, Google last week inked deals with top Australian outlets, including a global deal with Rupert Murdoch's News Corp."There's no reason Facebook can't do and achieve what Google already has," Birmingham added.A Facebook representative declined to comment on Monday on the legislation, which passed the lower house last week and has majority support in the Senate.A final vote after the so-called third reading of the bill is expected on Tuesday.Lobby group DIGI, which represents Facebook, Google and other online platforms like Twitter Inc, meanwhile said on Monday that its members had agreed to adopt an industry-wide code of practice to reduce the spread of misinformation online.Under the voluntary code, they commit to identifying and stopping unidentified accounts, or "bots", disseminating content; informing users of the origins of content; and publishing an annual transparency report, among other measures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/australia-says-no-further-facebook-google-amendments-as-final-vote-nears-101613995360436.html
22-02-2021||World||Prince Philip is 'OK', says William after hospital visit||Prince William said Monday that his grandfather, Prince Philip, is “OK” as the 99-year-old royal consort remains in a London hospital for rest and observation.William was asked about Philip when he visited a coronavirus vaccination center in eastern England.“Yes, he’s OK, they’re keeping an eye on him,” William said, and gave a wink.Philip was admitted to the private King Edward VII’s Hospital in London on Tuesday after falling ill. Buckingham Palace said the husband of Queen Elizabeth II was expected to remain in the hospital into this week for a period of “observation and rest.”Philip’s illness is not believed to be related to Cov-19. Both he and the queen, 94, received a first dose of a vaccine against the coronavirus in early January.Philip, who retired from public duties in 2017, rarely appears in public. During England’s current coronavirus lockdown, Philip, also known as the Duke of Edinburgh, has been staying at Windsor Castle, west of London, with the queen.Philip married the then-Princess Elizabeth in 1947 and is the longest-serving royal consort in British history. He and the queen have four children, eight grandchildren and nine great-grandchildren.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/prince-philip-is-ok-says-william-after-hospital-visit-101614000149568.html
22-02-2021||World||Sweden to probe international adoptions amid worries over illegal practices||Sweden said on Monday it would launch an investigation into how it conducted international adoptions until the 1990s amid growing concern that many children may have been taken from their biological parents illegally.Swedes have adopted about 60,000 children from around the world since the 1950s, according to the daily Dagens Nyheter, many of them from Asia and South America.Worries have been increasing, however, that some of the children may have been stolen from their parents or bought by criminal networks who then gave them up for adoption, with local authorities collaborating to provide false papers."We are going to need to investigate how adoption practices functioned in Sweden between the 1960s and the 1990s," Health and Social Affairs Minister Lena Hallengren said in an interview with the newspaper.Hallengren gave no further information about the investigation. Reports on irregularities in international adoptions have been surfacing for years.In 2018, a commission in Chile looking into policies by which thousands of children from poor families were sent abroad between 1950 and 2000 said that many had been given away without the consent of their parents.In some cases, mothers were told after they had given birth that their child had died, while in reality it had been taken to be put up for international adoption.Swedish families have adopted around 2,000 children from Chile since the 1970s.The Netherlands said this month it would freeze international adoptions after a government commission found irregularities in cases going back to the 1960s.The number of international adoptions in Sweden has been decreasing since the start of the millennium, falling to less than 400 in 2019 from about 1,000 in 2000, according to figures from the Statistics Office.In 2019, the largest number of international adoptions were from Asia. Most adoptions in Sweden are organised by non-profit organisations overseen by the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/sweden-to-probe-international-adoptions-amid-worries-over-illegal-practices-101613995953578.html
22-02-2021||World||‘Covid-19 crisis has a woman’s face’: UN chief spotlights discrimination during pandemic||United Nations (UN) secretary-general Antonio Guterres on Monday said that the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic has exacerbated discrimination against women and girls as he opened the 46th session of the body's Human Rights Council (UNHRC).Guterres' speech in Geneva focused on racism, the pandemic’s impact on women and human rights, and the ongoing military coup in Myanmar."The Covid-19 pandemic has further exacerbated entrenched discrimination against women and girls. The crisis has a woman’s face," he said, highlighting the pandemic’s impact on women and also criticised countries who are using it as an excuse to crackdown on dissent.Guterres said that women have suffered higher job losses than men and pushed into poverty by greater numbers. “This is on top of already fragile socio-economic conditions due to lower incomes, the wage gap, and a lifetime of less access to opportunities, resources and protections,” he added.Another UN body, the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), had earlier said that the Covid-19 crisis is drastically increasing the poverty rate for women and widening the gap between men and women who live in poverty. The UNDP estimated that by 2021, for every 100 men aged 25 to 34 living in extreme poverty, there will be 118 women, a gap that will increase to 121 women per 100 men by 2030.The secretary-general shed light on the plight of frontline workers, most of whom are women from marginalised communities. The International Labour Organization had released a report in April of 2020, estimating that globally over 70% of the healthcare workforce is made up of women, who are now facing the dual burden of working longer shifts and taking care of their families at home.He also talked about the challenges in Myanmar, where the military seized power from a democratic government."We see the undermining of democracy, the use of brutal force, arbitrary arrests, repression in all its manifestations. Restrictions of civic space. Attacks on civil society. Serious violations against minorities with no accountability, including what has rightly been called ethnic cleansing of the Rohingya population. It is all coming together in a perfect storm of upheaval," said Guterres.He also called on the Myanmar military to stop the repression immediately, saying "Coups have no place in our modern world."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-crisis-has-a-woman-s-face-un-chief-spotlights-discrimination-during-pandemic-101613999856798.html
22-02-2021||World||How Europe is fighting Covid-19: List of restrictions in various countries||Europe has been hit hard by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic with various countries in the continent reimposing strict restrictions to contain spread in the wake of the new variants of the infection emerging fast.Britain, which has been ravaged by one such variant, has imposed strict lockdown to contain its spread. However, Britain will soon reconfirm the easing of the restrictions with re-opening of the schools from March 8.Here is the list of restrictions imposed across countries in Europe:> Germany: Museums, gyms, cinemas are closed. Non-essential stores are closed until March 7. Schools in some states partially opened from Monday. The country has reported a total of over 2.3 million cases, as per John Hopkins University tracker.Also Read | India extends $100 mn line of credit for defence equipment to Mauritius> Italy: With a total of over 2.7 million cases, the country is divided into red, orange yellow and white zones of restrictions. Orange zone means bars and restaurants are closed, people are not allowed to leave towns except for work or emergencies. Theatres, cinemas and gyms are closed nationwide, while schools are partially opened in yellow zones. Presently, the country only has orange and yellow zones.> France: Restaurants, bars, theatres, cinemas, gyms, museums and galleries are shut. No lockdown but nationwide curfew from 6pm to 6am. Entry in the country with a total caseload of over 3.5 million cases from outside the EU is not allowed.> Netherlands: Curfew from 9pm to 4:30am since January 23 and will probably extend. Schools, non-essential services, bars, restaurants and bars are all shut. hairdressers and high schools are expected to open from next week. The country has reported a total of over 1.06 million cases till date.> Spain: Except Madrid, other regions in the country have strict restrictions. Curfew exists in places from 10 pm and midnight nationwide. Schools are open in the country and non-essential services might also reopen as infections decline. The total coronavirus caseload of the country stands at over 3.1 million.> Poland: Bars are closed, hotels, cinemas and theatres are operating at 50 per cent capacity. Restaurants are only allowed for takeaway service. Primary schools are open. Total Covid-19 caseload of the country is over 1.6 million.> Sweden: Public gathering of more than eight people is prohibited. Alcohol sale in bars and restaurants is not allowed after 8pm. High school students learn remotely, restrictions in international travellers. Total caseload is over 0.63 million.> Belgium: Non-essential international travel is prohibited till April 1. Work from home is mandatory wherever possible. Cafes and restaurants are also shut.Also Read | Italian ambassador killed in DR Congo attack> Austria: Tyrol province has strict measures for travel due to an outbreak of the South African coronavirus variant. A nighttime curfew exists while the total coronavirus cases are over 0.44 million.> Switzerland: First easing of restrictions to begin from next month. Restaurants and cultural venues remain closed. Total coronavirus caseload stands at over 0.54 million.> Hungary: Restaurants are closed but open for delivery and take away. Large public gatherings are prohibited. Cultural venues, secondary schools, universities are closed. An 8pm to 5am curfew exists. The total coronavirus case tally is over 0.45 million.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/how-europe-is-fighting-covid-19-list-of-restrictions-in-various-countries-101613995654049.html
22-02-2021||World||HSBC to announce exit from US retail banking, reshuffles top jobs||HSBC is set to withdraw from U.S. retail banking, a source familiar with the matter told Reuters on Monday, as Europe's biggest bank seeks to dispose of a business that has long underperformed.The exit from the U.S. consumer business will form part of the lender's strategy update due on Tuesday, as Chief Executive Noel Quinn seeks to cut costs, boost fee income and continue the lender's shift towards Asia.The sale or closure of its around 150 remaining branches in the United States, after it shuttered 80 last year, would mark the end of HSBC's struggle to turn around a business which has struggled to make inroads against incumbent domestic rivals.Ahead of the strategy update Quinn on Monday reshuffled several of his senior lieutenants.HSBC appointed Nuno Matos as chief executive of its wealth and personal banking business, while chief compliance officer Colin Bell became head of HSBC's European business.Michael Roberts was appointed CEO for the United States and Americas, while Stephen Moss will move to Dubai as head of the Middle East, North Africa and Turkey business, the bank said.In moving Moss to Dubai HSBC said it is expanding its strategic ambitions in the Middle East, suggesting the region will be a big part of the new strategy alongside an existing plan to 'pivot' more to Asia.The bank also said it is expanding the remit of Chief Financial Officer Ewen Stevenson, who will now also run the bank's transformation programme and its mergers and acquisitions plans.HSBC on Tuesday is set to report an expected plunge in annual profits reflecting the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hsbc-to-announce-exit-from-us-retail-banking-reshuffles-top-jobs-101613996410578.html
22-02-2021||World||Armenia seeks bigger Russian military presence on its border with Azerbaijan||Armenia would welcome the expansion of a Russian military base on its territory and the redeployment of some Russian forces closer to its border with Azerbaijan after a conflict with its neighbour last year, its defence minister said on Monday.Ethnic Armenian troops in the Nagorno-Karabakh region ceded swathes of territory in and around the enclave to Azerbaijan in a six-week conflict in 2020 that claimed thousands of lives.Russian peacekeeping troops are deployed in the enclave and, under a formal defence pact with Armenia, Russia has a fully-fledged military base in the city of Gyumri near the Turkish border with an estimated 3,000 troops.Russia said in November it was deploying almost 2,000 servicemen as part of the peacekeeping mission."The question of expanding and bolstering the Russian military base on the territory of Armenia has always been on the agenda," Armenian Defence Minister Vagharshak Harutyunyan told Russia's RIA news agency in an interview published on Monday."The Armenian side has always been interested in this."Harutyunyan did not say whether there were any concrete plans for a potential expansion.Armenian opposition politicians have called for the creation of a second Russian base in Armenia's southern Syunik region, wedged between Azerbaijan and the Azeri exclave of Nakhchivan.Harutyunyan said he saw no need for Russia to formally open a second military base, but said the two countries were considering deploying a military unit from the existing base to eastern Armenia, near the border with Azerbaijan.Harutyunyan did not disclose the purpose of the potential redeployment nor its exact location.Russia's Defence Ministry did not immediately respond to a request for comment.Armenia's opposition, which has called on Prime Minister Nikol Pashinyan to resign over the outcome of the conflict, planned to stage a fresh street protest on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/armenia-seeks-bigger-russian-military-presence-on-its-border-with-azerbaijan-101613998122386.html
22-02-2021||World||Queen to send TV message hours before Harry's tell-all interview||Queen Elizabeth II will appear on television to celebrate the Commonwealth on March 7 -- the same day as her grandson Harry's eagerly-anticipated but controversial interview with Oprah Winfrey will air.She will share her annual message to mark Commonwealth Day, which is on March 8 this year, in a special programme on BBC One that will replace the usual annual service, which has been cancelled due to the coronavirus pandemic.Her appearance will come just hours before Harry and his wife Meghan tell the world about why they left the royal family, in a move that has reportedly angered its remaining members.Westminster Abbey, where the annual service was to have been held, said Monday the programme will also involve Harry's father Prince Charles, elder brother Prince William, and other senior royals.Harry and Meghan announced last week the "intimate" interview with the US chat show host, in which they are expected to air their grievances about how they were treated inside the family following their fairy tale wedding in 2018.Shortly after revealing the interview, Buckingham Palace announced the couple had permanently quit royal duties, just over a year after they rocked the monarchy by announcing plans to "step back" from their roles.The Queen ordered the Duke and Duchess of Sussex, as they are formally known, to relinquish their honorary titles and patronages following the confirmation that they would not be returning as working royals.The couple relocated to the United States last year, in a move dubbed "Megxit" by the British press, and have since embarked on several commercial ventures there including lucrative tie-ups with the streaming platforms Netflix and Spotify.They announced on Valentine's Day that they are expecting their second child, and also hit the headlines earlier this month when Meghan won her high-profile privacy claim against a British newspaper group for publishing a private letter that she wrote to her estranged father.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/queen-to-send-tv-message-hours-before-harry-s-tell-all-interview-101613998643515.html
22-02-2021||World||Britain denounces abuses 'on industrial scale' in China's Xinjiang||Britain's foreign secretary Dominic Raab on Monday denounced torture, forced labour and sterilisations that he said were taking place against Muslim Uighurs on an "industrial scale" in China's Xinjiang region.Raab, in a recorded speech to the U.N. Human Rights Council, called for U.N. High Commissioner for Human Rights Michelle Bachelet or another independent expert to be given "urgent and unfettered access" to the remote western region."The situation in Xinjiang is beyond the pale," he told the Geneva forum where China is among the 47 member states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/britain-denounces-abuses-on-industrial-scale-in-china-s-xinjiang-101613996451485.html
22-02-2021||World||UNHCR appeals for rescue of Rohingya refugees in distress in Andaman Sea||The United Nations (UN) refugee agency on Monday appealed for the immediate rescue of a group of Rohingya refugees in distress in the Andaman Sea after leaving Bangladesh about 10 days ago. The UN High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) said it had received reports of an unconfirmed number of Rohingya refugees aboard a vessel in distress as of Saturday evening. The refugees apparently departed from Cox’s Bazar and Teknaf in Bangladesh about 10 days ago. “Many are in a highly vulnerable condition and are apparently suffering from extreme dehydration. We understand that a number of refugees have already lost their lives, and that fatalities have risen over the past 24 hours,” said Indrika Ratwatte, director of the UNHCR regional bureau for Asia and the Pacific. Also Read | India pushing ahead with key Kaladan transit project in MyanmarUNHCR said the vessel ran out of food and water several days ago, and that many of the people on board are ill. The vessel has reportedly been adrift since its engine broke down more than a week ago. “We have not been able to confirm the number of refugees or their precise location at this time,” Ratwatte said. “In the absence of precise information as to the refugees’ location, we have alerted the authorities of the relevant maritime states of these reports and appealed for their swift assistance, should the vessel be found in their area of responsibility for search and rescue. Immediate action is needed to save lives and prevent further tragedy,” he added. Saving lives must be the priority, and the duty to rescue persons in distress at sea should be upheld, irrespective of nationality or legal status, in line with international obligations under the law of the sea and longstanding maritime traditions, Ratwatte said. “We appeal to all governments to deploy their search and rescue capacities and promptly disembark those in distress,” he said. UNHCR said it would support governments across the region in providing humanitarian assistance and quarantine measures for those disembarked, in line with public health protocols. “The fact that refugees and migrants continue to undertake fatal journeys accentuates the need for immediate and collective regional response to search, rescue and disembarkation,” the UN agency said. Bangladesh currently has more than a million Rohingya refugees who fled Rakhine state in Myanmar in 2017 to escape a brutal crackdown by the military.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/unhcr-appeals-for-rescue-of-rohingya-refugees-in-distress-in-andaman-sea-101613996901494.html
22-02-2021||World||EU slaps sanctions on 19 more Venezuelan officials||The European Union on Monday imposed sanctions on 19 more officials in Venezuela accused of undermining democracy or rights abuses in the crisis-torn South American country.EU foreign ministers targeted the 19 with asset freezes and travel bans “in view of the deteriorating situation in Venezuela following the December 2020 elections.” The main opposition parties boycotted those polls.It means that a total of 55 Venezuelan officials are now subject to EU sanctions.“The individuals added to the list are responsible, notably, for undermining the oppositions’ electoral rights and the democratic functioning of the National Assembly, and for serious violations of human rights and restrictions of fundamental freedoms,” the ministers said.They said the measures are not designed to “to have adverse humanitarian effects or unintended consequences for the Venezuelan population, and can be reversed.”Once a wealthy oil nation, Venezuela is now mired in a deep economic crisis, which critics blame on two decades of failed socialist policies that have left the nation bankrupt and its infrastructure crumbling. President Nicolás Maduro says he is under attack from the United States, which wants to oust him from power.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/eu-slaps-sanctions-on-19-more-venezuelan-officials-101613993056354.html
22-02-2021||World||Italian ambassador killed in DR Congo attack||Italy's ambassador to the Democratic Republic of Congo was killed on Monday when a UN convoy came under attack in the troubled east, DRC sources and the government in Rome said.Luca Attanasio died of his wounds after a World Food Programme (WFP) convoy came under fire near Goma, a senior diplomatic source said in Kinshasa.Two other people also died in the attack, Major Guillaume Djike, the army's spokesman in North Kivu province told AFP. Other sources said the two were the envoy's driver and bodyguard.Attanasio's death was confirmed in Rome by the Italian foreign ministry, which also said an Italian policeman died.Attanasio, who had been appointed to the DRC in early 2018, suffered "gunshot wounds to the abdomen" and was taken to a hospital in Goma in critical condition, the diplomat in Kinshasa said.The DRC's army said its troops were searching the area for the assailants.A vast country the size of continental western Europe, the DRC is grappling with numerous conflicts, especially in its remote, mineral-rich east.Scores of militias roam the four eastern provinces, many of them a legacy of wars in the 1990s that sucked in countries around central-southern Africa and claimed millions of lives.Monday's attack occurred north of Goma -- a region that includes the UNESCO-listed Virunga National Park, which has also been troubled by violence.The UN's refugee agency, the UNHCR, said last week that more than 2,000 civilians were killed in North and South Kivu and Ituri last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/italian-ambassador-killed-in-dr-congo-attack-101613996011382.html
22-02-2021||World||UN chief demands immediate halt to Myanmar 'repression'||UN chief Antonio Guterres on Monday condemned the "brutal force" used by those behind Myanmar's coup and urged the military to immediately halt the repression and release prisoners.In his annual address to the UN Human Rights Council, Guterres mentioned only one country by name: Myanmar."Today, I call on the Myanmar military to stop the repression immediately," he said, speaking in a pre-recorded video message at the opening of the Geneva-based council's 46th session."Release the prisoners. End the violence. Respect human rights, and the will of the people expressed in recent elections," he said, insisting that "coups have no place in our modern world."Myanmar's authorities have gradually ratcheted up their tactics against a massive and largely peaceful civil disobedience campaign demanding the return of ousted civilian leader Aung San Suu Kyi.Saturday marked the deadliest day since the February 1 coup, with two people killed after security forces fired on a rally in Mandalay and a third man shot dead in Yangon.And the junta warned protesters against inciting people "to a confrontation path where they will suffer the loss of life."Protesters on Monday were undeterred by the warning, with tens of thousands rallying in Yangon, Myanmar's biggest city and commercial hub.Guterres had already condemned Saturday's "deadly violence", insisting in a tweet Sunday that "the use of lethal force, intimidation and harassment against peaceful demonstrators is unacceptable."Myanmar's foreign ministry hit back, accusing the UN and a number of foreign countries of "flagrant interference" in its internal affairs.The United States, Britain and Canada have all responded to the coup with sanctions targeting Myanmar's top generals.Even before the coup, army chief General Min Aung Hlaing -- who now holds legislative, executive and judicial powers -- was facing sanctions for his military's role in a brutal crackdown on the Rohingya Muslims in 2017.European Union foreign ministers will meet Monday to discuss their own measures against the regime.'Perfect storm' Since the army takeover, 640 people have been detained, according to the Assistance Association for Political Prisoners monitoring group.Among those targeted have been railway workers, civil servants and bank staff, who have walked off their jobs as part of the anti-coup campaign."We see the undermining of democracy, the use of brutal force, arbitrary arrests, repression in all its manifestations. Restrictions of civic space," Guterres warned the council.He also condemned attacks on civil society and "serious violations against minorities with no accountability, including what has rightly been called ethnic cleansing of the Rohingya population.""The list goes on," he said."It is all coming together in a perfect storm of upheaval."The UN chief voiced his "full support to the people of Myanmar in their pursuit of democracy, peace, human rights and the rule of law."And he welcomed a resolution passed by the rights council earlier this month during a special session dedicated to the crisis in Myanmar, demanding the immediate release of Suu Kyi.That resolution was adopted without a vote by the 47-member council, but several countries including traditional allies of Myanmar's military China and Russia disassociated themselves from the consensus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/un-chief-demands-immediate-halt-to-myanmar-repression-101613995467494.html
22-02-2021||World||Boeing 747 cargo plane drops engine parts in Netherlands, investigation launched||An incident involving a Boeing 747-400 cargo plane that dropped engine parts after a mid-air explosion and fire over the southern Netherlands on Saturday is under investigation, the Dutch Safety Board said.The Longtail Aviation cargo plane, flight 5504, scattered small metal parts over the southern Dutch town of Meerssen, causing damage and injuring a woman shortly after take-off, Maastricht Airport spokeswoman Hella Hendriks said.The plane, which was headed from Maastricht to New York, was powered by Pratt & Whitney PW4000 engines, a smaller version of those on a United Airlines Boeing 777 involved in an incident in Denver, also on Saturday.After that incident, Boeing recommended airlines suspend operations of certain older versions of its 777 airliner powered by Pratt & Whitney 4000-112 engines, variants currently flown by five airlines.U.S. regulators announced extra inspections and Japan suspended their use while considering further action.In the Dutch incident, witnesses heard one or two explosions shortly after take-off and the pilot was informed by air traffic control that an engine was on fire, Hendriks said."The photos indicate they were parts of engine blade, but that's being investigated," she said. "Several cars were damaged and bits hit several houses. Pieces were found across the residential neighbourhood on roofs, gardens and streets."Dozens of pieces fell, she said, measuring around 5 centimetres wide and up to 25 centimetres long. The aircraft landed safely at Liege airport in Belgium, some 30 kilometres (19 miles) south of the Dutch border.Boeing referred questions to Dutch authorities."Our investigation is still in a preliminary phase, it is too early to draw conclusions," a spokeswoman for the Dutch Safety Board said on Monday.Longtail Aviation did not immediately respond to a request for comment.Europe's EASA aviation regulator said on Monday that it was aware of the Pratt & Whitney jet engine incidents, and was requesting information on the causes to determine what action may be needed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/boeing-747-cargo-plane-drops-engine-parts-in-netherlands-investigation-launched-101613994044476.html
22-02-2021||World||China seeks to work with US, Europe to uphold multilateralism||China, the United States and Europe should work together to uphold multilateralism, after U.S. President Joe Biden called for democracies to coordinate their approach to China, foreign ministry spokesman Wang Wenbin said at a briefing on Monday.Biden on Friday drew a sharp contrast with the foreign policy of his predecessor, Donald Trump, and urged democracies to work together to challenge abuses by autocratic states such as China and Russia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-seeks-to-work-with-us-europe-to-uphold-multilateralism-101613993712595.html
22-02-2021||World||Bone cancer survivor with prosthesis to join billionaire on SpaceX flight||After beating bone cancer, Hayley Arceneaux figures rocketing into orbit on SpaceX’s first private flight should be a piece of cosmic cake.St. Jude Children’s Research Hospital announced Monday that the 29-year-old physician assistant — a former patient hired last spring — will launch later this year alongside a billionaire who’s using his purchased spaceflight as a charitable fundraiser.Arceneaux will become the youngest American in space — beating NASA record-holder Sally Ride by over two years — when she blasts off this fall with entrepreneur Jared Isaacman and two yet-to-be-chosen contest winners.She’ll also be the first to launch with a prosthesis. When she was 10, she had surgery at St. Jude to replace her knee and get a titanium rod in her left thigh bone. She still limps and suffers occasional leg pain, but has been cleared for flight by SpaceX. She’ll serve as the crew’s medical officer.“My battle with cancer really prepared me for space travel,” Arceneaux said in an interview with The Associated Press. “It made me tough, and then also I think it really taught me to expect the unexpected and go along for the ride.”She wants to show her young patients and other cancer survivors that “the sky is not even the limit anymore.”“It’s going to mean so much to these kids to see a survivor in space,” she said.Isaacman announced his space mission Feb. 1, pledging to raise $200 million for St. Jude, half of that his own contribution. As the flight’s self-appointed commander, he offered one of the four SpaceX Dragon capsule seats to St. Jude.Without alerting the staff, St. Jude chose Arceneaux from among the “scores” of hospital and fundraising employees who had once been patients and could represent the next generation, said Rick Shadyac, president of St. Jude’s fundraising organization.Arceneaux was at home in Memphis, Tennessee, when she got the “out of the blue” call in January asking if she’d represent St. Jude in space.Her immediate response: “Yes! Yes! Please!” But first she wanted to run it past her mother in St. Francisville, Louisiana. (Her father died of kidney cancer in 2018.) Next she reached out to her brother and sister-in-law, both of them aerospace engineers in Huntsville, Alabama, who “reassured me how safe space travel is.”A lifelong space fan who embraces adventure, Arceneaux insists those who know her won’t be surprised. She’s plunged on a bungee swing in New Zealand and ridden camels in Morocco. And she loves roller-coasters.Isaacman, who flies fighter jets for a hobby, considers her a perfect fit.“It’s not all supposed to be about getting people excited to be astronauts someday, which is certainly cool,” Isaacman, 38, said last week. “It’s also supposed to be about an inspiring message of what we can accomplish here on Earth."He has two more crew members to select, and he plans to reveal them in March.One will be a sweepstakes winner; anyone donating to St. Jude this month is eligible. So far, more than $9 million has come in, according to Shadyac. The other seat will go to a business owner who uses Shift4Payments, Isaacman’s Allentown, Pennsylvania, credit card-processing company.Liftoff is targeted around October at NASA’s Kennedy Space Center, with the capsule orbiting Earth two to four days. He’s not divulging the cost.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/bone-cancer-survivor-with-prosthesis-to-join-billionaire-on-spacex-flight-101613992436989.html
22-02-2021||World||Israel, Egypt may build gas pipe as they eye European market||Egypt and Israel said they may build an undersea natural-gas pipeline connecting the two countries, as they seek to collaborate on exporting the fuel to Europe.The pipeline would link Israel’s huge Leviathan field to Egypt’s liquefied natural gas plants, the countries’ energy ministries said Sunday. Egypt added that the two sides would work on a governmental framework for the pipeline.The announcement comes as nations in the eastern Mediterranean ramp up investments in offshore gas fields. Egypt is seeking to become a major hub for exporting LNG to Europe, where demand is growing as governments transition from dirtier fossil fuels such as coal and oil.The new pipeline would allow Israel to export more gas to Egypt. It can currently send 7 billion cubic meters a year through the EMG pipeline that runs to Egypt’s Sinai Peninsula.The latest agreement came as Oil Minister Tarek El-Molla made a rare visit to Israel for an Egyptian official. He met his counterpart, Yuval Steinitz, and Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. They discussed working with other countries to convert ships to use natural gas instead of petroleum. El-Molla also traveled to the Palestinian city of Ramallah.Chevron Corp. and other companies are separately investing hundreds of millions of dollars to help transport Israeli gas to Egypt.Egypt is increasing exports from its own fields, including Zohr. The Golar Glacier, an LNG-carrying vessel, arrived at Damietta to load 60,000 tons of the super-chilled fuel, according to a cabinet statement Sunday and ship-tracking data compiled by Bloomberg.The tanker’s arrival marks the return of the country’s second LNG plant after an eight-year hiatus. Damietta’s restart was repeatedly delayed amid a dispute over gas supplies.Egypt has spearheaded the establishment of the East Mediterranean Gas Forum. The group, which also includes Cyprus, Greece, Israel, Italy, Jordan and the Palestinians, is meant to boost cooperation among the region’s gas producers and transit countries. Turkey, which has raised tensions by exploring for gas in contested waters, is not as yet included.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/israel-egypt-may-build-gas-pipe-as-they-eye-european-market-101613988881354.html
22-02-2021||World||Europe-bound North African migrants found traveling among glass, toxic ash||Spanish authorities say they have found and rescued 41 migrants in the past four days who tried to reach continental Europe from North Africa, some of them hiding inside a container of discarded glass bottles and a bag of toxic ash.Among the 35 people found only on Friday trying to travel to Europe from the Spanish port of Melilla, an enclave in North Africa, four hid among bottles and other glass partially broken in pieces and with sharp edges that were destined for recycling, the Spanish Civil Guard said Monday.A video released by the police also shows another incident in which an officer first finds a motionless leg sticking out of a large plastic bag containing ash from the city's incinerator, a material that is considered highly toxic. When the agent starts removing the ash, the alleged stowaway seems to recover consciousness.The port of Melilla, where trucks and containers embark on a trip to Spain that can take up to seven hours, is together with the nearby Ceuta enclave a target for many migrants trying to reach the European mainland.Some of them try to enter the fenced area of the harbor by swimming there or by hiding in vehicles, in some cases jumping on to them when they slow down or stop at the gates of the port.The Civil Guard says that it found 11,700 people last year inside the Melilla port’s security perimeter and that in 2021 so far, the figure has reached 1,781 migrants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/europebound-north-african-migrants-found-traveling-among-glass-toxic-ash-101613991200158.html
22-02-2021||World||PM Boris Johnson to lay out ‘cautious’ roadmap for easing UK Covid-19 lockdown||UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson is to table a “cautious” roadmap in Parliament on Monday to ease the country out of the strict stay-at-home lockdown in place to control the spread of coronavirus infections.The strategy, to be finalised at a virtual Cabinet meeting, will set out the latest data on infection rates, hospitalisations and deaths, as well as early data showing the efficacy of vaccines.Based on the latest Covid-19 statistics, Johnson is expected to confirm that all schools will reopen across England from March 8 and that families and friends can begin to be reunited outdoors under a return of the “rule of six” for gatherings later in March.Members of Parliament will vote on the regulations, following which the final roadmap will kick into action in the coming weeks.“Today I’ll be setting out a roadmap to bring us out of lockdown cautiously. Our priority has always been getting children back into school which we know is crucial for their education as well as their mental and physical wellbeing, and we will also be prioritising ways for people to reunite with loved ones safely,” said Johnson, ahead of his statement in the House of Commons.“Our decisions will be made on the latest data at every step, and we will be cautious about this approach so that we do not undo the progress we have achieved so far and the sacrifices each and every one of you has made to keep yourself and others safe. We have therefore set four key tests which must be met before we can move through each step of the plan,” he said.The key tests cover four aspects: the vaccine deployment programme continues successfully; evidence shows vaccines are sufficiently effective in reducing hospitalisations and deaths in those vaccinated; infection rates do not risk a surge in hospitalisations, which would put unsustainable pressure on the National Health Service (NHS); and the assessment of the risks is not fundamentally changed by new "variants of concern”.Before proceeding to the next step, the government said it will examine the data to assess the impact of previous easements.Due to the current relatively uniform spread of the virus across the country, restrictions will be eased step-by-step across the whole of England at the same time.Downing Street said that the four tests are currently being met so the first step will proceed from March 8, at which point the top four priority cohorts for vaccinations – as determined by the independent Joint Committee on Vaccination and Immunisation (JCVI) – will have received a degree of immunity, three weeks after being offered their first dose.The roadmap is described as a means to balance social and economic impacts, whilst preserving health and safety. Outdoor settings are known to be lower risk than indoor in keeping infection rates low, so outdoor activities will be opened earlier than indoor ones.The devolved administrations of Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland have been setting out their own roadmaps for easing lockdown, but are in most part following a similar phased approach.As part of the new roadmap, Public Health England (PHE) will publish new data on the impact of vaccines on transmission rates. Early data suggests a reduction in transmission of the virus in people who have had a vaccine.So far, more than 17.5 million people in the UK have received a vaccine dose and over the weekend the government set a new July 31 target to ensure all adults have received their jabs to protect against the deadly virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pm-boris-johnson-to-lay-out-cautious-roadmap-for-easing-uk-covid-19-lockdown-101613991573404.html
22-02-2021||World||China to increase recycling of renewable resources||China will speed up recycling and utilisation of renewable resources such as metals scrap in an effort to build low-carbon development and meet its carbon neutrality goal, the State Council said on Monday.The State Council, China's cabinet, urged local governments and related authorities to improve recycling system of waste and used home appliances and to establish a recycling system to increase utilisation and output rates of renewable resources such as scrap metals and plastics.China had allowed imports of high-grade copper and aluminium scrap in November 2020 and gave the approval for high-grade steel scrap imports starting 2021 to meet robust demand of the materials.The cabinet also asked to increase usages of renewable resources and "develop hydrogen energy and biomass energy... according to local conditions," it said in a statement on its website."By 2025... discharge of major pollutants will continue to decrease, carbon emission will significantly reduce," said the State Council.President Xi Jinping had promised to bring China's carbon emission to a peak within a decade and to achieve carbon neutrality by 2060.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-to-increase-recycling-of-renewable-resources-101613989838249.html
22-02-2021||World||Taiwan sounds currency warning as chip demand fuels exports||Taiwan more than doubled its forecast for export growth this year, but sounded a warning that the global scramble for computer chips is going to add further upward pressure on the local dollar. Stocks and the currency gained.Exports will likely rise 9.58% this year, compared with a previous estimate of 4.59%, the statistics bureau said Saturday. Gross domestic product may expand 4.64%, more than previously expected and up from a revised 3.11% in 2020, when it was one of the few significant economies to register growth.“Our trade surplus was $58.8 billion last year,” said statistics chief Chu Tzer-ming. “We expect it to be $63.9 billion this year. This might lead to pressure on the Taiwan dollar to appreciate. Everyone should watch out for this.”Overseas demand for chips used in smartphones, artificial intelligence and high-performance computing has helped fuel an appreciation of more than 7% in the Taiwan dollar versus the greenback over the past 12 months, even as the central bank worked to slow gains.The Taiwan dollar closed little changed after strengthening as much as 1.5% Monday, largely in line with intraday gains over the past few weeks before the central bank steps in to “smooth” the gains in late trading. The benchmark Taiwan Stock Exchange index rose 0.4%While Taiwan’s projected growth for this year lags the global average of 5.4%, based on a Bloomberg survey of economists, it’s coming off a higher base. The island’s successful management of the pandemic and avoidance of lockdowns has also supported domestic consumption.Despite the currency’s gains last year, the U.S. Treasury added Taiwan to a watch list of potential currency manipulators in December, citing the island’s growing current account surplus, and urged the central bank to allow further gains. That’s leaving policy makers in a dilemma: let the Taiwan dollar gain faster, potentially hurting exporters, or risk tensions with the U.S., a key ally.“The Taiwan dollar has solid fundamental reasons to appreciate further with Taiwan’s stellar export performance,” said Gary Ng, an economist at Natixis in Hong Kong. “In addition, the central bank will try to avoid being designated a currency manipulator, and it is indeed difficult to stop the inflows driven by better economic prospects and a weaker dollar.”The government pointed to increased demand for Taiwan’s semiconductors as a key reason it upgraded the 2021 forecasts. Given the leading position of the island’s main chip manufacturers, strong external demand will boost exports, Tsai Yu-tai, director of the statistics department of the Directorate General of Budget Accounting and Statistics, said at a briefing following the release of Saturday’s data.“We upgraded our export outlook after taking January export data into consideration, plus the fact that Taiwanese businesses with facilities in China are investing more at home, and the changes in the global supply and demand,” Tsai said. “We expect this year’s export growth to be the strongest since 2017.”At the same time, the export data also underscore Taiwan’s dominance in the global chip supply chain.U.S. President Joe Biden’s top economic adviser, Brian Deese, last week sought the Taiwan government’s help in resolving the chip shortage that’s hindering U.S. automotive manufacturing. His appeal followed earlier pleas from Japanese and European officials for Taiwan’s help in ensuring supply.The world’s largest contract chipmaker, Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co., plans to increase capital expenditure this year to as much as $28 billion to help address the shortage. Shares in the chip giant have surged 23% this year, on top of a 60% jump in 2020, making it the world’s 10th-largest company.Taiwan’s manufacturing sector has been bolstered by the government’s largely successful handling of the Covid-19 pandemic. Taiwan has consistently ranked near the top of Bloomberg’s Covid Resilience Ranking, having had just nine deaths and fewer than 1,000 cases since the beginning of the outbreak.That allowed it to avoid the strict lockdowns which brought many other economies to a halt. With a few exceptions, Taiwanese businesses, offices and schools stayed open throughout the year, and there was a boom in domestic travel as people opted to vacation at home rather than head overseas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/taiwan-sounds-currency-warning-as-chip-demand-fuels-exports-101613986211151.html
22-02-2021||World||Facebook takes down pages of Myanmar state TV||Facebook took down the pages of Myanmar's state-run television on Monday, a day after the channel had warned anti-coup protesters against taking action and said that confrontation could put lives at risk."In line with our global policies, we’ve removed the MRTV and MRTV Live Pages from Facebook for repeated violations of our Community Standards, including our violence and incitement policy," said Rafael Frankel, Director of Public Policy, APAC, Emerging Markets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/facebook-takes-down-pages-of-myanmar-state-tv-101613986182135.html
22-02-2021||World||Hong Kong leader Carrie Lam, other officials receive Covid-19 vaccine||Hong Kong leader Carrie Lam and other government officials received Covid-19 vaccines on Monday as the city begins its inoculation program.Lam and city’s health minister Sophia Chan were among the first people to receive their vaccines in Hong Kong, after about a million doses of the vaccine by Chinese biopharmaceutical company Sinovac Biotech arrived in the Chinese territory last week.Hong Kong is to begin its inoculation program on Friday after several delays in vaccine shipments to the city. Those who will receive priority for the vaccinations include the elderly, medical workers, caretakers at elderly homes and employees such as airline cabin crew and cross-border drivers.“We are very determined, very committed to rolling out a free and universal vaccination program for the people of Hong Kong so that we could get ourselves out of this epidemic as soon as possible,” Lam said to reporters after she was inoculated.Efforts to fight the pandemic, including the vaccination program, require the full collaboration of the people of Hong Kong, she said.A recent poll conducted by the University of Hong Kong found that respondents were distrustful of the Chinese vaccine, with only about 30% willing to accept it amid concerns about its low efficacy.In contrast, 56% of respondents were willing to take the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine.Hong Kong’s government has also ordered the Pfizer-BioNTech and AstraZeneca vaccines. So far, only the Sinovac and Pfizer-BioNTech vaccines have been approved for use in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hong-kong-leader-carrie-lam-other-officials-receive-covid-19-vaccine-101613987523156.html
22-02-2021||World||Europe launches space program to boost secure connections||The European Union unveiled several programs aimed at boosting the bloc’s civil, space and defense industries, including a low-earth orbit satellite infrastructure to rival Elon Musk’s Starlink network.The push will aim to provide reliable, secure and cost-effective connectivity for governmental and commercial communications, as well as high-speed broadband throughout Europe, the European Commission said on Monday.The commission said it was currently carrying out a feasibility study to specify the project’s scope and associated costs.Key Points||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/europe-launches-space-program-to-boost-secure-connections-101613989722257.html
22-02-2021||World||Chinese Official signals overhaul of Hong Kong’s election system to ensure governance by 'patriots'||China faces a “critical and urgent” task to overhaul Hong Kong’s electoral system, Beijing’s top official for the city said, in the latest sign that authorities were mulling major changes in the coming weeks.Beijing needed to reform the city’s electoral system “to ensure that Hong Kong’s governance is firmly controlled by patriots,” Xia Baolong, director of China’s cabinet-level Hong Kong and Macau Affairs Office, said in a speech Monday.Speaking to the Chinese Association of Hong Kong and Macau Studies, Xia said that to improve Hong Kong’s electoral system, “relevant legal loopholes within the framework of the Constitution and the Basic Law” need to be closed -- and that it was up to the central government to communicate those changes to the local administration.The remarks follow a number of articles and comments in Chinese state media reports, and are the latest sign that China is contemplating further curbs to Hong Kong’s already-limited democracy, where a committee of 1,200 business and political elites selects the city’s leader and Beijing retains veto power.Security LawChina has taken various steps to stamp out dissent in the former British colony since sometimes-violent protests erupted in 2019, most notably by imposing a sweeping national security law last year.Beijing also allowed the local government to disqualify lawmakers who were insufficiently patriotic. All opposition members of the Legislative Council resigned en masse after Chief Executive Carrie Lam’s administration used the new rule to kick out four lawmakers.In comments to Lam in late January, Chinese President Xi Jinping said Hong Kong should be governed by “patriots” in order to ensure the city’s stability following unprecedented unrest in 2019.Lam, speaking at a press conference on Monday, said Hong Kong needed Beijing to enact electoral reform.“The central government has its power over the political system in Hong Kong,” she said, adding that the “election arrangement plays an important part of it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinese-official-signals-overhaul-of-hong-kong-s-election-system-to-ensure-governance-by-patriots-101613989266033.html
22-02-2021||World||EU prepares measures against Myanmar coup leaders||European Union foreign ministers on Monday tasked the bloc's top diplomat and its executive wing with drawing up a series of measures to target those responsible for the military coup in Myanmar, as people rallied in the streets of the country's biggest city.“The European Union calls for de-escalation of the current crisis through an immediate end to the state of emergency, the restoration of the legitimate civilian government and the opening of the newly elected parliament,” the ministers said in a statement as they met in Brussels.“In response to the military coup, the European Union stands ready to adopt restrictive measures targeting those directly responsible. All other tools at the disposal of the European Union and its Member States will be kept under review,” the ministers said.Such sanctions usually involve a freeze on people's assets and a ban on them travelling to Europe.Myanmar's military junta prevented Parliament from convening on February 1. It claimed that last November's elections, won by Aung San Suu Kyi's party in a landslide, were tainted by fraud. The election commission that confirmed the victory has since been replaced by the junta.The coup was a major setback to Myanmar's transition to democracy after 50 years of army rule that began with a 1962 coup. Suu Kyi came to power after her party won a 2015 election, but the generals retained substantial power under a military-drafted constitution.Around 640 people have been arrested, charged or sentenced, with 593, including Suu Kyi and President Win Myint, still in detention, according to the independent Assistance Association for Political Prisoners.The EU ministers condemned the arrests and called for the unconditional release of the President, Suu Kyi and all those held since the coup. They also condemned the security crackdown and expressed solidarity with citizens, saying that any sanctions they impose are not aimed at ordinary people.Despite the junta's thinly veiled threat to use lethal force if people answered a call for a general strike, and roadblocks around the U.S. Embassy in Yangon, more than a thousand protesters gathered there Monday. Military trucks and riot police stood nearby.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/eu-prepares-measures-against-myanmar-coup-leaders-101613987973667.html
22-02-2021||World||Biden to revise small business loans to reach smaller, minority firms||U.S. President Joe Biden will launch changes on Monday to the main U.S. coronavirus aid program for small businesses to try to reach smaller, minority-owned firms and sole proprietors left behind in previous rounds of aid.Biden administration officials said that for two weeks starting on Wednesday, the Small Business Administration will only accept applications for forgivable Paycheck Protection Program (PPP) loans from firms with fewer than 20 employees to ensure that they are not crowded out by larger firms.The changes, to be formally announced by Biden on Monday, come as small business bankers say demand for Paycheck Protection loans is slowing as firms reopen.When the PPP was launched in April 2020 at the height of coronavirus lockdowns under a $3 trillion relief bill, its initial $349 billion ran out in two weeks. Congress approved another $320 billion in May, but the program expired in August with about $130 billion in unused funds.The program was re-launched on Jan. 19 with $284 billion in new funds from a coronavirus aid bill passed at the end of December, and a Biden administration official said about $150 billion of PPP money is still available.But Biden administration officials said there are still many minority and very small firms in low-income areas that have not been able to receive aid.The changes aim to make it easier for firms with no employees -- sole proprietors, independent contractors, and self-employed people such as house cleaners and personal care providers -- that could not qualify previously because of business cost deductions.The Small Business Administration will revise the rules to match the approach used to allowed small farmers and ranchers to receive aid, the businesses said.The officials said the program will also set aside $1 billion for businesses without employees in low- and moderate-income areas, which are 70% owned by women and people of color.The SBA will provide new guidance making it clear that legal U.S. residents who are not citizens, such as green card holders, cannot be excluded from the program. The Biden Administration will also eliminate exclusions that prohibit a business owner who is delinquent on student loans from participating in the program.Business owners with non-fraud felony arrests or convictions in the previous year are excluded from the program, but Biden administration officials said they will adopt bipartisan Senate proposals to remove this restriction -- unless the applicant is currently incarcerated. (Reporting by David Lawder; Editing by Jacqueline Wong)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-to-revise-small-business-loans-to-reach-smaller-minority-firms-101613988126165.html
22-02-2021||World||UN refugee agency calls for rescue of Rohingya adrift in Andaman sea||The United Nations (UN) refugee agency called on Monday for the immediate rescue of a group of Rohingya refugees who were adrift in their boat in the Andaman Sea without food or water, many of whom were ill and suffering from extreme dehydration.The agency said it understood some passengers had died, with fatalities rising over the weekend on a boat it said had left the coastal district of Cox's Bazar in Bangladesh about 10 days ago and had experienced engine failure."In the absence of precise information as to the refugees' location, we have alerted the authorities of the relevant maritime states of these reports and appealed for their swift assistance," the UN High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) said in a statement."Immediate action is needed to save lives and prevent further tragedy," it said, offering to support governments by providing humanitarian help and quarantine measures to those rescued.A senior Indian coast guard official told Reuters the boat has been tracked to an area off the Andaman and Nicobar islands and was reported safe, but the condition of those aboard was not known.The Rohingya are a Muslim minority that has suffered persecution in Buddhist-majority Myanmar and many have fled in rickety boats, encountering often perilous journeys in the hope of reaching Malaysia and Indonesia.Hundreds of thousands of Rohingya fled a deadly crackdown by Myanmar's security forces in 2017 and poured into neighbouring Bangladesh, where about a million live in dire conditions in sprawling refugee camps, unable to work or leave without government permission.Authorities in Bangladesh said they were unaware of any boats leaving the camps."If we had such information, we would have stopped them," said Rafiqul Islam, an additional police superintendent based in Cox's Bazar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/un-refugee-agency-calls-for-rescue-of-rohingya-adrift-at-andaman-sea-101613986670495.html
22-02-2021||World||About a third of Texans still facing disrupted water supplies: Report||Some 8.8 million people in Texas, about a third of the state's population, still had issues with their water supply as of Sunday evening, CNN quoted authorities as saying, after a record-breaking freeze knocked out power stations last week.Millions of Texans are still being advised to boil water before using, though all power plants were back online over the weekend and power had been restored to most homes as the weather returned to normal.Officials in Houston, the biggest city in the state, said water there was safe to use without boiling as of Sunday.The Texas Commission on Environmental Quality (TCEQ) did not respond to a Reuters request for comment on the CNN report.Texas Governor Greg Abbott said late on Sunday that he had joined the Texas Air Guard, the Texas National Guard and the US military to distribute water."About 3.5 million bottles of water have been delivered", the governor said in a tweet.A deadly winter storm caused widespread blackouts last week across Texas, a state unaccustomed to extreme cold, killing at least two dozen people and knocking out power to more than 4 million people at its peak.Texas is also bringing in plumbers from out of state to help repair burst pipes, the governor said on Sunday. Homeowners or renters who do not have insurance may be able to seek reimbursement from the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), he said.US President Joe Biden approved a major disaster declaration for Texas on Saturday that makes federal funding available to people harmed by the storm, including assistance for temporary housing and home repairs and low-cost loans.US Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez said late on Sunday that she had amassed $5 million in her fundraising efforts to help Texans hard hit by last week's winter storm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/about-a-third-of-texans-still-facing-disrupted-water-supplies-report-101613985979959.html
22-02-2021||World||Volunteers in New Zealand try to rescue 40 stranded whales||Volunteers in New Zealand were trying to save 40 stranded whales Monday evening by refloating them on the high tide. Nine more whales had already died.The pod of 49 long-finned pilot whales beached themselves on Farewell Spit, a remote beach on the South Island, the Department of Conservation reported.The whales were first noticed by a tour operator on Monday morning, the department said.About 65 conservation rangers and volunteers worked throughout the day to help the whales by keeping them cool and wet until the water was deep enough to refloat them. The nonprofit whale rescue group Project Jonah was helping coordinate efforts.Farewell Spit, a sliver of sand that arches like a hook into the Tasman Sea, has been the site of previous mass strandings. Sometimes described as a whale trap, the spit’s long coastline and gently sloping beaches seem to make it difficult for whales to navigate away from once they get close.There are different theories as to why whales strand themselves, from chasing prey too far inshore to trying to protect a sick member of the group or escaping a predator.Four years ago, more than 650 pilot whales beached themselves on Farewell Spit in two separate mass strandings. More than 350 of the creatures died while about 300 were saved.Pilot whales are relatively small but can grow to over 6 meters (20 feet).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/volunteers-in-new-zealand-try-to-rescue-40-stranded-whales-101613976517779.html
22-02-2021||World||US Prez Biden to hold candle lighting ceremony in memory of Covid victims today||US President Joe Biden will deliver remarks on Monday on the lives lost to the coronavirus pandemic and will hold a moment of silence and candle lighting ceremony at sundown together with the First Lady, as well as Vice President Kamala Harris and her husband, the White House said." ... the President, the First Lady, the Vice President, and the Second Gentleman will hold a moment of silence and candle lighting ceremony at sundown in the South Portico," Biden's Monday daily guidance, released by the White House, says.According to the release, Biden will deliver remarks in the Cross Hall of the White House ahead of the candle lighting ceremony.According to the latest data from Johns Hopkins University, the United States has confirmed more than 28.1 million coronavirus cases, and the country's Covid-19 death toll stands at over 498,800. These are the highest figures of all the countries in the world.According to US media reports, the US coronavirus death toll is expected to surpass 500,000 on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-prez-biden-to-hold-candle-lighting-ceremony-in-memory-of-covid-victims-today-101613984000426.html
22-02-2021||World||United States top general urges Iran restraint amid efforts to restart talks||Iran must refrain from any provocation as Washington steps up efforts to salvage the 2015 nuclear deal with Tehran, the head of US forces in the Middle East told AFP."I would think this would be a good time for everybody to behave soberly and cautiously, and see what happens," General Kenneth McKenzie said in an interview Sunday during a visit to Oman, from where he flew close to neighbouring Iran in a helicopter."I do believe we will be prepared for any eventuality, however."US President Joe Biden's administration, European powers and Iran have boosted attempts to revive a 2015 deal that has been on the brink of collapse since Donald Trump withdrew from it three years later.On Sunday after talks in Tehran, UN nuclear watchdog chief Rafael Grossi announced a "temporary solution" to allow Iranian facility inspections to continue.The four-star general, head of the US Army Central Command (Centcom) which covers the region urged Iran not to undertake any "nefarious activities" in a bid to rebuild trust."I think they would want to be recognised as a responsible member of the family of nations and a stable member in the region," McKenzie said.The US accuses Iran of destabilising the region through financial and military support for Shiite militant groups, especially in Iraq, Lebanon and Yemen.Washington also accuses Iran's elite Revolutionary Guards of disrupting maritime traffic in the strategic Strait of Hormuz, a chokepoint through which a fifth of world oil output passes.The Strait of Hormuz was the focus of the US general's visit to Oman, officially intended to make contact with the country's new chief of staff, Rear Admiral Abdallah Ben Khamis al-Raissi.On Saturday, he visited Oman's rugged peninsula at the naval base at Khassab, which controls maritime traffic in the strait from its side, flying over the sea towards the Iranian island of Qeshm."We were about 28 miles (45 kilometres) across the channel and we were looking at Qeshm island," he said."It was a hazy day, couldn't see it," he added with a grin.'Ready for anything'The visit passed off peacefully but security was tight, and the general did not rule out that Tehran would try to avenge revered Iranian general Qasem Soleimani, killed in an US drone strike in Baghdad in January 2020."I think there's still a risk that they might entertain that as a course of action," he said."Look, we constantly assess our force protection here in the region. We look at that very hard. So I'm confident that we're ready for anything."But he said he was not fearful himself that he was at risk of being attacked."I'm an old Marine general," he said. "There's been a risk for me many times in many places. I'm confident that we have good force protection measures in place."Last month, a Twitter account linked to Iran's supreme leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei posted a call to avenge Soleimani that appeared to target former US President Donald Trump.In Iraq in recent months, several rocket attacks that Washington blames on pro-Iran factions have hit bases used by the US military.The Sultanate of Oman is a US ally, which has several air bases in the country, with the navy using the southern port of Salalah.It has often acted as a mediator between Iran and its regional enemies, and played a key role in facilitating talks involving the US that led to the 2015 nuclear deal.Oman, with a population of 4.5 million, is also a neighbour of Iran -- and international sanctions against Tehran have hit Muscat's economy by impacting trade.Oman's ruler, Sultan Haitham, ascended to the throne in January 2020 after the death of his cousin, Sultan Qaboos, modern Oman's founding father.Qaboos transformed the former Arabian Peninsula backwater into a modern nation with a staunch policy of neutrality and non-interference.Sultan Haitham has made several changes to government and reshuffled the military leadership since he came to power, but he has vowed not to change the sultanate's policy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/united-states-top-general-urges-iran-restraint-amid-efforts-to-restart-talks-101613983659607.html
22-02-2021||World||Germany damps hopes for easing curbs as contagion rates rise||Germany needs to further slow the spread of the coronavirus before the government can consider additional steps to loosen restrictions on Europe’s largest economy, the country’s health minister said.Children in 10 of Germany’s 16 states are returning to schools and daycares for the first time in weeks on Monday, and authorities will need to evaluate the impact of the move before considering whether other curbs can be eased, Jens Spahn said on Sunday.“Once we have firm footing, we can take another step” after reopening schools and daycares, he said in an interview with ARD television.Germany’s contagion rate reached 61 per 100,000 people over seven days on Monday, the highest level in more than a week and the latest evidence that a steady decline since a peak before Christmas has ground to a halt. The number of infections is still above the target of 50 that Chancellor Angela Merkel’s government has determined to be manageable.Hairdressers are set to reopen on March 1 and further easing is tied to local seven-day incidence rates of less than 35.Amid concerns about fast-spreading variants, Germany imposed border controls with the Czech Republic and Austria’s Tirol province in mid-February. Interior Minister Horst Seehofer will seek to extend those measures this week, he told Bayerischer Rundfunk.Despite concerns about mutations, Merkel’s government is under increasing pressure to present a path out of the lockdown amid criticism over the sluggish pace of the country’s vaccine program.Spahn pleaded for patience as the country seeks to strike a balance between easing strains on the pandemic-weary public and health risks from aggressive virus strains.“I know everybody wants a three- and a six-month plan, but that’s not possible,” he said.Germany’s reproduction factor -- or R value -- rose to 1.25 on Sunday from 1.14 the day before, according to the latest report from the Robert Koch Institute, the country’s public health authority. The number means 100 infected people are estimated to spread the disease to around 125 others, and its recent rise is another sign that the slowdown in infection numbers has ground to a halt.There were 6,094 new infections in Germany in the 24 hours through Monday morning, according to data from Johns Hopkins University. This compares with almost 50,000 at the peak of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/germany-damps-hopes-for-easing-curbs-as-contagion-rates-rise-101613977207866.html
22-02-2021||World||UN human rights body opens session as Myanmar concerns loom||The U.N.’s top human rights body has opened its first and highest-level meeting of 2021, amid growing concerns on issues including the military coup in Myanmar, the arrest of opposition leader Alexei Navalny in Russia and the rights situations in countries including Ethiopia and Sri Lanka.The four-week session at the Human Rights Council starting Monday has drawn several presidents and prime ministers for its “high-level segment,” and Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro, whose government has led a violent crackdown against dissent, was set to speak. The United States is set to renew its council participation after a 2 1/2-year walkout during the term of former President Donald Trump.Concerns about China’s treatment of Muslim Uighurs, a squeeze by Ethiopia’s government on the country’s Tigray region and state-sponsored violence in countries including Nicaragua were likely to face scrutiny during the session.“Every corner of the globe is suffering from the sickness of violations of human rights,” said U.N. Secretary-General Antonio Guterres.The military coup and violent crackdown on protesters in Myanmar since early February was among the most pressing issues on the council's agenda.The session, almost exclusively online, comes as the fight against Covid-19 has become a pretext by some governments to curb human rights, and worsened gender inequality and extreme poverty — even as vaccination efforts have largely been carried out in the world’s richest countries.Guterres also decried racism, discrimination, xenophobia and the “transnational threat” of white supremacy and neo-Nazi movements — saying such groups are “engaged in a feeding frenzy of hate.”“Far too often, these hate groups are cheered on by people in positions of responsibility in ways that were considered unimaginable not long ago,” he added, without elaborating.Western foreign ministers including Heiko Maas of Germany and Dominic Raab of Britain were to be joined by U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken in addressing the session. Trump had pulled the U.S. out over concerns that the council was excessively focused on Israel and had been too accepting of autocratic regimes that regularly violate human rights — citing Venezuela in particular.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/un-human-rights-body-opens-session-as-myanmar-concerns-loom-101613983382862.html
22-02-2021||World||Sri Lanka cancels Imran Khan's speech to avoid 'clash' with India: Report||In an effort to avoid confrontation with India, Sri Lanka has cancelled a scheduled speech of Prime Minister Imran Khan in Parliament.According to a report titled 'Sri Lanka avoids clash with India by cancelling Khan's Parliament speech' by Dar Javed published in Colombo Gazette, the Colombo government cannot risk its relations with India when it is getting stuck in the Chinese debt-trap and India being the saviour for the world for distributing Covid-19 vaccines.India has recently gifted 5 lakh doses of Covishield vaccines to Sri Lanka.In past recent months, there have been anti-Muslim sentiments in Sri Lanka as Buddhist people have been protesting on issues such as animal sacrifices in mosques.It is expected that Imran Khan would have used the Muslim card during his visit to Sri Lanka. He had played the same card during his visit to Afghanistan last year.Javed said that the Pakistan Prime Minister in 2012 had supported the Taliban saying the terror activities were "holy war" that is justified by Islamic law. "He has used the United Nations General Assembly to rake up Muslim cause, which has often been perceived as interference in the internal matters of the other countries. In October 2020, he urged the Muslim-majority countries to protest after French President Emmanuel Macron expressed concerns over the murder of a teacher by an Islamist radical. He wrote to the leaders of Muslim-majority countries 'to counter the growing Islamophobia in non-Muslim states'," the author stated.Looking at the past incidents, it is evident that "giving him (Imran Khan) a platform like Parliament to speak would be like to dice with death".He would use the platform to make statements that will have "serious ramifications" for both the Buddhist people of Sri Lanka and the Rajapaksa government at the international level."The way Imran Khan responded to the requests of Sri Lankan Muslim leader's requests; it had become clear that he would rake up minority abuse issue during Parliament speech," Javed pointed.Earlier, Rishad Bathiudeen, leader of the All-Ceylon Makkal Congress, had urged the Pakistan government to intervene in the matter of forced cremation policy of the Sri Lankan government for people who died due to COVID-19. The Prime Minister publicly remarked on the issue of the burial of dead bodies in Sri Lanka.While Imran Khan seems eager to raise the issue of the treatment of Muslims in other countries, the United Nations' Commission on the Status of Women report had stated that the religious freedom in the country has continued to deteriorate.The commission further noted that the minorities in Pakistan are treated as second-class citizens. Besides, several Buddhist heritage sites in Pakistan were recently demolished.After Organisation of Islamic Cooperation refused to take up Pakistan's proposal to entertain the Kashmir issue, Imran Khan has become desperate to get support from the Muslim countries and portray himself as the champion of the Muslim world.Amid this, the refusal of the Buddhist populated country to give a platform to Imran Khan in the Parliament has left the Prime Minister red-faced and frustrated. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/sri-lanka-cancels-imran-khan-s-speech-to-avoid-clash-with-india-report-101613981373935.html
22-02-2021||World||US reiterates support for pro-democracy protests in Myanmar||The US continues to stand with the people of Burma as they voice their aspirations for peace and democracy and it calls on the military to stop violence, release all those unjustly detained and cease attacks on journalists and activists, according to US State Department spokesperson Ned Price on Sunday (local time).Taking to Twitter, Ned Price said, "We continue to stand with the people of Burma as they voice their aspirations for peace, democracy, and rule of law. We call on the military to stop violence, release all those unjustly detained, cease attacks on journalists and activists, and respect the will of the people."US State Department Secretary Antony Blinken also said that the US stands with the people of Burma."The United States will continue to take firm action against those who perpetrate violence against the people of Burma as they demand the restoration of their democratically elected government. We stand with the people of Burma," Blinken wrote in a tweet.This comes after the Myanmar police opened fire on pro-democracy protesters in the city of Mandalay on Saturday, killing two people and wounding dozens.On February 1, Myanmar's military overthrew the government and declared a year-long state of emergency hours before the newly-elected parliament was due to convene. State Counsellor Aung San Suu Kyi and President Win Myint, along with other top officials accused of election fraud, have been placed under house arrest. The coup triggered mass protests across the country.According to Sputnik, at least 150 people have suffered injuries during intense demonstrations across the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-reiterates-support-for-pro-democracy-protests-in-myanmar-101613971246063.html
22-02-2021||World||China asks US to stop 'smearing' CPC, halt support to 'separatist forces' in Tibet, Hong Kong, Xinjiang||China on Monday urged the US to stop "smearing" the ruling Communist Party of China (CPC) and it’s one-party political system, lift sanctions on trade and halt Washington’s backing of "separatist forces” in Taiwan, Tibet, Hong Kong and Xinjiang.In his annual speech at the Lanting Forum, focussing on China-US ties, Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi said the Biden administration should “adjust” the hardline policy pursued by former President Donald Trump towards Beijing to check its growing influence.“We have no intention to challenge or replace the United States. We are ready to have peaceful coexistence and seek common development with the United States,” Wang said.“Likewise, we hope the United States will respect China’s core interests, national dignity, and rights to development. We urge the United States to stop smearing the CPC and China’s political system, stop conniving at or even supporting the erroneous words and actions of separatist forces for 'Taiwan independence', and stop undermining China’s sovereignty and security on internal affairs concerning Hong Kong, Xinjiang and Tibet,” he said.“We hope that the US side will adjust its policies as soon as possible, among others, remove unreasonable tariffs on Chinese goods, lift its unilateral sanctions on Chinese companies and research and educational institutes, and abandon irrational suppression of China,” he said.The relations between China and the US are at an all time low. The two countries are currently engaged in a bitter confrontation over various issues, including trade, the origins of the novel coronavirus pandemic, the communist giant's aggressive military moves in the disputed South China Sea and human rights.US President Joe Biden who spoke to his Chinese counterpart Xi Jinping for over two hours in his first phone call on February 11 later said there would be “repercussions” for China’s human rights abuses and he made the message clear to his Chinese counterpart in his talks.In a CNN town hall on February 17, Biden said he stressed to Xi during their long conversation that the US would continue to assert its role as a voice for human rights on the world stage, including at the United Nations and other international agencies.“We must speak up for human rights. It’s who we are,” the Hong Kong-based South China Morning Post quoted Biden as saying.“There will be repercussions for China, and [Xi] knows that,” he said.“China is trying very hard to become the world leader and to get that moniker, and to be able to do that, they have to gain the confidence of other countries. And as long as they’re engaged in activity that is contrary to basic human rights, it’s going to be hard for them to do that,” Biden, whose administration is formulating its China policy reconfiguring the one followed by Trump, said.Biden, who met Xi a few times when both were Vice Presidents, had said earlier said that Xi lacked ‘D’ bone meaning the democratic bone highlighting the autocratic style of the Chinese President, who has emerged the most powerful leader after Mao Zedong after he took over power in 2012.After his talks with Xi, Biden also warned that if the US doesn't "get moving" on China policy, "they're going to eat our lunch."Ahead of his call with Xi, Biden announced a new Defence Department task force aimed at assessing the US military’s China strategy.Besides challenging China on various fronts, including on the origins of coronavirus, Trump launched sanctions on trade with Beijing and banned Chinese tech firms like Huawei, TikTok.In his speech, Wang said it is important to step-up dialogue and properly manage the differences between the top two economies of the world.“Given the differences between our two countries in the social system, development stage, history and culture, it is natural for us to have disagreements. What is crucial is to enhance mutual understanding through dialogue and not allow our relations to be defined by disagreements,” Wang said.“Over the past few years, the United States basically cut off bilateral dialogue at all levels. And this was one of the main reasons for the deterioration of China-US relations,” he said.He said both sides should follow up on the phone call between the two Presidents, act in the “fundamental interests of the two peoples, take a forward-looking, open-minded and inclusive attitude, and reactivate or establish dialogue mechanisms in various areas and at various levels”.They should also engage in candid dialogues on a broad range of issues to explore effective ways to manage sensitive issues, ward off risks and remove obstacles, he said.“China is, as always, open to dialogue. We stand ready to have candid communication with the US side, and engage in dialogues aimed at solving problems”, he said.Wang spoke at the Lanting Forum, a platform initiated by the Chinese Foreign Ministry to promote communication and exchanges between government, the business community, academia, media and the public.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-asks-us-to-stop-smearing-cpc-halt-support-to-separatist-forces-in-tibet-hong-kong-xinjiang-101613970806192.html
22-02-2021||World||UK PM Boris Johnson eyes end to lockdown as Covid-19 vaccines reach one-third of adults||Prime Minister Boris Johnson is set Monday to start unwinding England's third and -- he hopes -- final coronavirus lockdown, as a quickening UK-wide inoculation drive relieves pressure on hard-hit hospitals.In a statement to parliament, Johnson is expected to confirm the reopening of all English schools on March 8 in the first big step towards restoring normal life, nearly a year after he imposed the first stay-at-home order.The Conservative prime minister, who was accused of acting too late and relaxing curbs too early last year, says he will lay out a "cautious but irreversible" plan to ensure no more lockdowns."Today I'll be setting out a roadmap to bring us out of lockdown cautiously," he said in a Downing Street release, ahead of his House of Commons appearance and a televised news conference later Monday."Our priority has always been getting children back into school which we know is crucial for their education as well as their mental and physical well-being, and we will also be prioritising ways for people to reunite with loved ones safely."Britain is one of the countries hardest-hit by the Covid-19 pandemic, with more than 120,000 deaths.It was the first nation to begin a mass vaccination campaign, in December, but surging case numbers forced a return to lockdown in early January after an easing of curbs over Christmas.More than 17 million people have now received at least a first vaccine dose -- one-third of the adult UK population.Case numbers falling Over the weekend, the government said it would seek to offer a dose to everyone aged over 50 by mid-April, and to every other adult by the end of July, accelerating the latter timetable from September previously.Case numbers are falling again and early evidence suggests the vaccinations are reducing serious illness, after some intensive-care units were overrun last month and queues of ambulances formed outside hospitals, unable to transfer their patients.Johnson said the planned relaxations would be uniform across England, after regionalised tiers were put in place last year, but stressed that further progress would hinge on factors such as any new Covid variants.That, and proof that the National Health Service is not facing any more "unsustainable pressure", offer Johnson some flexibility against pressure from Conservative backbenchers who are pressing for a cast-iron timeline to normality by the summer.Teaching unions say meanwhile that allowing all pupils to return on the same day is "reckless", but the March 8 target is backed by the main opposition Labour party."We all want this to be the last lockdown so we've got to come out of it in a measured way, but make sure we are not back where we started in a number of weeks or months," Labour leader Keir Starmer told Sky News.'Not through this yet' Also from March 8, the government plans to allow elderly residents of care homes to receive indoor visits from one designated relative or friend, and is expected to permit limited social mixing by the public outdoors.But the full reopening of retail and pubs, and attendance at sporting events such as Premier League football, will be delayed until later."All of us understandably want to go back to normal, but it is right to be cautious," Health Secretary Matt Hancock said, noting that nearly 20,000 people remain in hospital with Covid.The devolved governments of Scotland and Wales, which administer their own health policy, are letting some younger pupils return to school this week.In Northern Ireland, the administration is resuming younger classes on March 8 but has extended its overall lockdown to April 1.John Edmunds, an epidemiologist and government advisor from the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, told the BBC: "The vast majority of us are still not immune."Easing up too quickly will increase pressure, cases will increase again. We're not through this yet."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-pm-boris-johnson-eyes-end-to-lockdown-as-covid-19-vaccines-reach-one-third-of-adults-101613968387700.html
22-02-2021||World||China calls to reset ties with US, work together on issues like climate change, coronavirus||Senior Chinese diplomat Wang Yi said on Monday the United States and China could work together on issues like climate change and the coronavirus pandemic if they repaired their damaged bilateral relationship.Wang, a Chinese state councillor and foreign minister, said Beijing stood ready to reopen constructive dialogue with Washington after relations between the two countries sank to their lowest in decades under former president Donald Trump.Wang called on Washington to remove tariffs on Chinese goods and abandon what he said was an irrational suppression of the Chinese tech sector, steps he said would create the "necessary conditions" for cooperation.Before Wang spoke at a forum sponsored by the foreign ministry, officials played footage of the "ping-pong diplomacy" of 1972 when an exchange of table tennis players cleared the way for then US President Richard Nixon to visit China.Wang urged Washington to respect China's core interests, stop "smearing" the ruling Communist Party, stop interfering in Beijing's internal affairs and stop "conniving" with separatist forces for Taiwan's independence."Over the past few years, the United States basically cut off bilateral dialogue at all levels," Wang said in prepared remarks translated into English."We stand ready to have candid communication with the U.S. side, and engage in dialogues aimed at solving problems."Wang pointed to a recent call between Chinese President Xi Jinping and US President Joe Biden as a positive step.Washington and Beijing have clashed on multiple fronts including trade, accusations of human rights crimes against the Uighur Muslim minorities in the Xinjiang region and Beijing's territorial claims in the resources-rich South China Sea.The Biden administration has, however, signalled it will maintain pressure on Beijing. Biden has voiced concern about Beijing's "coercive and unfair" trade practices and endorsed of a Trump administration determination that China has committed genocide in Xinjiang.However, Biden has also pledged to take a more multilateral approach and is keen to cooperate with Beijing on issues like climate change and persuading North Korea to give up its nuclear weapons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-calls-to-reset-ties-with-us-work-together-on-issues-like-climate-change-coronavirus-101613966888599.html
22-02-2021||World||Myanmar gripped by strike as anti-coup protests build||Businesses shut in Myanmar on Monday in a general strike called to oppose the military coup and thousands of protesters gathered despite a threat from authorities that confrontation could cost lives.Three weeks after seizing power, the junta has failed to stop daily protests and a civil disobedience movement calling for the reversal of the Feb. 1 coup and release of elected leader Aung San Suu Kyi."Everyone is joining this," said San San Maw, 46, at the Hledan junction in the main city of Yangon, which has become a rallying point for the protests. "We need to come out."In a country where dates are seen as auspicious, protesters noted the significance of the date 22.2.2021, comparing it to demonstrations on Aug. 8 1988 when a previous generation staged anti-military protests which were bloodily suppressed.The response of security forces this time has been less deadly, but at least three protesters have now been killed after two were shot dead in the second city of Mandalay on Saturday. One policeman died of injuries in protests, the army has said.The deaths in Mandalay did not discourage protesters on Sunday, when they turned out again in tens of thousands there and in Yangon.State-owned media MRTV warned protesters against action on Monday."Protesters are now inciting the people, especially emotional teenagers and youths, to a confrontation path where they will suffer the loss of life," it said.Htet Htet Hlaing, 22, said she was scared and had prayed before joining Monday's demonstration, but would not be discouraged."We don’t want the junta, we want democracy. We want to create our own future," she said. "My mother didn't stop me from coming out, she only said 'take care'."RESTAURANTS SHUTAs well as local stores, international chains announced closures on Monday, including Yum Brands Inc.'s KFC and delivery service Food Panda, owned by Delivery Hero. Southeast Asian company Grab stopped delivery services too, but left its taxis running.Authorities were "exercising utmost restraint", the foreign ministry said in a statement. It rebuked some foreign countries for remarks it described as flagrant interference in Myanmar's internal affairs.Several Western countries have condemned the coup and decried the violence against protesters.US Secretary of State Antony Blinken said on Twitter the United States would continue to "take firm action" against authorities violently cracking down on opponents of the coup in the Southeast Asian country that is also known as Burma."We stand with the people of Burma," he said.Britain, Germany, Japan and Singapore have also condemned the violence and UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres said lethal force was unacceptable.Residents in Yangon said roads to some embassies, including the US embassy, were blocked on Monday. The diplomatic missions have become gathering points for protesters calling for foreign intervention.UN special rapporteur on human rights to Myanmar, Tom Andrews, said he was deeply concerned by the junta's warning to protesters."Unlike 1988, actions by security forces are being recorded and you will be held accountable," he said on Twitter.The army seized power after alleging fraud in Nov. 8 elections that were swept by Suu Kyi's National League for Democracy (NLD), detaining her and much of the party leadership. The electoral commission dismissed the fraud complaints.Myanmar's Assistance Association for Political Prisoners said 640 people have been arrested, charged or sentenced since the coup - including former members of government and opponents of the army takeover.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/myanmar-gripped-by-strike-as-anti-coup-protests-build-101613966560520.html
22-02-2021||World||Donald Trump 'offered Kim Jong Un a ride home on Air Force One'||Donald Trump offered North Korean leader Kim Jong Un a ride home on Air Force One after a summit in Hanoi two years ago, according to a new BBC documentary.Kim and Trump first engaged in a war of words and mutual threats, before an extraordinary diplomatic bromance that featured headline-grabbing summits and a declaration of love by the former US president.But no substantive progress was made, with the process deadlocked after the pair's meeting in Hanoi broke up over sanctions relief and what Pyongyang would be willing to give up in return.According to a BBC documentary, "Trump Takes on the World", the US president "stunned even the most seasoned diplomats" by offering Kim a lift home on Air Force One after the 2019 summit in Vietnam.If Kim had accepted the offer, it would have put the North Korean leader -- and probably some of his entourage -- inside the US president's official aircraft and seen it enter North Korean airspace, raising multiple security issues.In the event, Kim turned it down."President Trump offered Kim a lift home on Air Force One," Matthew Pottinger, the top Asia expert on Trump's National Security Council, told the BBC, it reported at the weekend."The president knew that Kim had arrived on a multi-day train ride through China into Hanoi and the president said: 'I can get you home in two hours if you want.' Kim declined."For his first summit with Trump in Singapore in 2018, Kim hitched a ride on an Air China plane, with Beijing keen to keep North Korea -- whose existence as a buffer state keeps US troops in the South well away from China's borders -- firmly within its sphere of influence.During the Singapore summit, Trump gave Kim a glimpse inside his presidential state car -- a $1.5 million Cadillac also known as "The Beast" -- in a show of their newly friendly rapport.But last month Kim said the US was his nuclear-armed nation's "biggest enemy", adding that Washington's "policy against North Korea will never change" no matter "who is in power".North Korean official media have yet to refer to Joe Biden -- who beat Trump in last year's election -- by name as US president.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-offered-kim-jong-un-a-ride-home-on-air-force-one-101613965684138.html
22-02-2021||World||Louisiana gun store shooting: Attacker kills 2, customers, staff shoot him down||A person entered a gun store and shooting range in a New Orleans suburb and fatally shot two people Saturday, prompting customers and staff to open fire on the shooter, a sheriff said. The shooter also died.The shooting happened around 2:50 p.m. at the Jefferson Gun Outlet in the suburb of Metairie, according to a release from the Jefferson Parish Sheriff's Office.Sheriff Joseph Lopinto said the shooter initially struck two people inside, and then several other people — whether employees or store customers — opened fire on the shooter, both inside and outside of the building. Outside the building a man could be seen afterward behind yellow police tape yelling “Where is my son?”Guns and ammunition are sold in the front of the outlet that faces a main thoroughfare through Jefferson Parish. Customers who want to frequent the gun range generally go around to the side entrance of the building. Staff who work there often wear a sidearm.Lopinto said two other people also were hit by gunfire and were hospitalized in stable condition. He said there were multiple shooters.“We’re trying to put it all together,” the sheriff said during a short briefing with journalists.None of the dead or wounded were immediately identified and details remained unclear.Tyrone Russell and Wanetta Joseph were both in a conceal-and-carry course at the store when they heard what they both described as rapid firing. They said the gunfire sounded much louder than the usual muffled shooting that they are used to hearing inside the shooting range.“We heard the gunshots and the screaming,” said Russell. “When the police came, they escorted us out. I could see glass everywhere … It was just like a really scary scene.”“It got extremely loud, like a bomb almost,” said Joseph, who hid with other students under a table — not knowing if there were multiple shooters or if one was near the classroom. One instructor stayed with the students while two others left the room and headed toward the sound of gunfire.Russell said that when he was led out, he could see a guy “laid out” in the parking lot not far from his car, which was struck by bullets. He described seeing shattered glass, bullet casings strewn about the store.Caution tape surrounded the business to keep onlookers from getting close to the scene, where ambulances and numerous law enforcement vehicles had converged. A neighboring Taco Bell eatery had been evacuated.Authorities remained at the scene as night fell.Metairie is a major suburb of New Orleans, about 5 miles (8 kilometers) west of the city's iconic French Quarter, in the neighboring jurisdiction of Jefferson Parish.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/metairie-gun-store-shooting-attacker-kills-2-customers-staff-shoot-him-down-101613960959775.html
22-02-2021||World||'We're going to beat Covid-19': Joe Biden after visiting Pfizer vaccine plant||After visiting the Pfizer manufacturing plant in Michigan, US President Joe Biden on Sunday (local time) thanked the company's workers for their tireless efforts and said because of their hard work Americans are going to beat Covid-19.Taking to Twitter, Biden wrote, "On Friday, I visited Kalamazoo, Michigan to tour a Pfizer manufacturing plant. I had an opportunity to see the COVID-19 vaccine production process up close and thank the workers for their tireless efforts - because of their hard work we're going to beat COVID-19."On Friday (local time) Biden visited a factory in Kalamazoo, where he met with lab workers and learned about the process behind creating one of the two Covid-19 vaccines that are being widely used across the country to inoculate Americans, reported The Hill."I came here because I want the American people to understand the extraordinary, extraordinary work that's being done to undertake the most difficult operational challenges this nation has ever faced," said Biden.However, it marked just the second time Biden had travelled outside the Washington, DC, area since taking office, The Hill reported. world||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/were-going-to-beat-covid-19-joe-biden-after-visiting-pfizer-vaccine-plant-101613960986050.html
22-02-2021||World||China calls for reset in Sino-US relations with Biden administration||Senior Chinese diplomat Wang Yi called on the administration of U.S. President Joe Biden to work with Beijing to reopen dialogue between the two countries to restore a bilateral relationship damaged under the presidency of Donald Trump.Wang, a Chinese state councillor and foreign minister, said the Trump administration's actions to suppress and contain China inflicted immeasurable harm, and called on Washington to remove tariffs on Chinese goods and abandon what he said was an irrational suppression of the Chinese tech sector.Wang also urged Washington to respect China's core interests, stop interfering in Beijing's internal affairs and stop "conniving" with separatist forces for Taiwan's independence."Over the past few years, the United States basically cut off bilateral dialogue at all levels," Wang said in prepared remarks translated into English."We stand ready to have candid communication with the U.S. side, and engage in dialogues aimed at solving problems."Wang pointed to a recent call between Chinese President Xi Jinping and Biden as a positive step.The comments come with the bilateral relationship at its lowest in decades. Washington and Beijing have clashed on multiple fronts including trade, accusations of human rights crimes against the Uighur Muslim minorities in Xinjiang region and Beijing's territorial claims in the resources-rich South China Sea.The Biden administration has, however, signalled it will maintain pressure on Beijing. Biden has voiced concern about Beijing's "coercive and unfair" trade practices and endorsed of a Trump administration determination that China has committed genocide against Muslim minorities in the far western region of Xinjiang.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-calls-for-reset-in-sino-us-relations-with-biden-administration-101613960838464.html
22-02-2021||World||Myanmar junta 'threatens' protesters ahead of proposed general strike today||A call for a Monday general strike by demonstrators in Myanmar protesting the military’s seizure of power has been met by the ruling junta with a thinly veiled threat to use lethal force, raising the possibility of major clashes.The call for a general strike was made Sunday by the Civil Disobedience Movement, a loosely organized group leading resistance to the army’s Feb. 1 takeover. It asked people to gather together for the Five Twos — referring to the digits in Monday’s date — to make a “Spring Revolution.”State television broadcaster MRTV late Sunday carried a public announcement from the junta, formally called the State Administration Council, warning against the general strike.“It is found that the protesters have raised their incitement towards riot and anarchy mob on the day of 22 February. Protesters are now inciting the people, especially emotional teenagers and youths, to a confrontation path where they will suffer the loss of life,” it said in an English language text shown onscreen. The spoken announcement in Burmese said the same thing.Another part of the statement blamed protesters whose numbers allegedly included criminal gangs for violence at demonstrations, with the result that “the security force members had to fire back.” Three protesters have been shot dead so far.The protest movement has embraced nonviolence and only occasionally gotten into shoving matches with police and thrown bottles at them when provoked.In Yangon, the country’s biggest city, trucks cruised the streets Sunday night blaring announcements that people should not attend protests Monday and must honor a ban on gatherings of five or more people. The ban was issued shortly after the coup but not enforced in Yangon, which for the past two weeks has been the scene of large daily demonstrations.Many social media postings ahead of the scheduled nightly 1 a.m. cutoff of internet access service said security forces had set up roadblocks at strategic points in the city, including bridges and on streets leading to foreign embassies. Information on Twitter accounts that have proven reliable in the past said internet blocking, usually lasting until 9 a.m., would be extended to noon in Yangon.The ominous signs of potential conflict drew attention outside Myanmar, with the U.S. reiterating that it stood with the people of Myanmar.Secretary of State Antony Blinken said on Twitter the U.S. would take firm action "against those who perpetrate violence against the people of Burma as they demand the restoration of their democratically elected government.”“We call on the military to stop violence, release all those unjustly detained, cease attacks on journalists and activists, and respect the will of the people,” spokesman Ned Price said on Twitter.Earlier Sunday, crowds in Myanmar’s capital attended a funeral for the young woman who was the first person confirmed to have been killed in the protests, while demonstrators also mourned two other protesters who were shot dead on Saturday.Mya Thwet Thwet Khine was shot in the head by police on Feb. 9, two days before her 20th birthday, at a protest in Naypyitaw, and died Friday.Mourners lined the entrance to a cemetery in the city as the hearse carrying her body arrived and was taken to a crematorium where more people had gathered. They silently raised their hands in three-fingered salutes — a sign of defiance and resistance adopted from neighboring Thailand — as the black and gold vehicle rolled slowly past.Inside the crematorium hall, the lid on Mya Thwet Thwet Khine’s coffin was partially removed to allow a last glimpse of her head resting on a bed of red and white roses before she was cremated. Members of the crowd outside chanted “Our uprising must succeed!”Protests against the coup and the ousting of the nation’s leader, Aung San Suu Kyi, occurred elsewhere around the country Sunday.Demonstrators turned out in force in Mandalay, the country’s second-biggest city, where security forces shot dead two people on Saturday near a dockyard where the authorities had been trying to force workers to load a boat. The workers, like railway workers and truckers and many civil servants, have joined the civil disobedience campaign against the junta.The shooting broke out after neighborhood residents rushed to the Yadanabon dock to try to assist the workers in their resistance. One of the victims, described as a teenage boy, was shot in the head and died immediately, while another was shot in the chest and died en route to a hospital.The authorities have continued arrests that began on the day of the coup, when Suu Kyi and members of the government were detained. According to the independent Assistance Association for Political Prisoners, 640 people have been arrested, charged or sentenced, with 593, including Suu Kyi and President Win Myint, still in detention.The junta prevented Parliament from convening Feb. 1, claiming the elections last November, won by Suu Kyi's party in a landslide, were tainted by fraud. The election commission that affirmed the victory has since been replaced by the junta, which says a new election will be held in a year’s time.The coup was a major setback to Myanmar’s transition to democracy after 50 years of army rule that began with a 1962 coup. Suu Kyi came to power after her party won a 2015 election, but the generals retained substantial power under the constitution, which had been adopted under a military regime.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/myanmar-junta-threatens-protesters-ahead-of-proposed-general-strike-today-101613960003031.html
22-02-2021||World||United will temporarily stop flying some Boeing 777 planes after engine failure||United Airlines said late Sunday it will immediately halt all flights by its fleet of 24 Boeing 777 airplanes with the same type of engine involved in Saturday's emergency landing in Denver.The announcement came after the Federal Aviation Administration said it would require stepped-up inspections of 777 aircraft with Pratt & Whitney PW4000 series engines after the right engine failure on United Flight 328.United said it will continue discussions with US regulators "to determine any additional steps that are needed to ensure these aircraft meet our rigorous safety standards and can return to service."The FAA had said it expected the new inspection would require some planes to be temporarily taken out of service.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/united-will-temporarily-stop-flying-some-boeing-777-planes-after-engine-failure-101613956778785.html
22-02-2021||World||US coronavirus death toll approaches milestone of 500,000||The US stood Sunday at the brink of a once-unthinkable tally: 500,000 people lost to the coronavirus.A year into the pandemic, the running total of lives lost was about 498,000 — roughly the population of Kansas City, Missouri, and just shy of the size of Atlanta.The figure compiled by Johns Hopkins University surpasses the number of people who died in 2019 of chronic lower respiratory diseases, stroke, Alzheimer's, flu and pneumonia combined.“It's nothing like we have ever been through in the last 102 years, since the 1918 influenza pandemic,” the nation's top infectious disease expert, Dr Anthony Fauci, said on CNN's “State of the Union”.The US virus death toll reached 400,000 on January 19 in the waning hours in office for President Donald Trump, whose handling of the crisis was judged by public health experts to be a singular failure.The first known deaths from the virus in the US happened in early February 2020, both of them in Santa Clara County, California. It took four months to reach the first 100,000 dead. The toll hit 200,000 deaths in September and 300,000 in December. Then it took just over a month to go from 300,000 to 400,000 and about two months to climb from 400,000 to the brink of 500,000.Joyce Willis of Las Vegas is among the countless Americans who lost family members during the pandemic. Her husband, Anthony Willis, died on December 28, followed by her mother-in-law in early January.There were anxious calls from the ICU when her husband was hospitalised. She was unable to see him before he died because she, too, had the virus and could not visit.“They are gone. Your loved one is gone, but you are still alive,” Willis said. “It's like you still have to get up every morning. You have to take care of your kids and make a living. There is no way around it. You just have to move on.”Then came a nightmare scenario of caring for her father-in-law while dealing with grief, arranging funerals, paying bills, helping her children navigate online school and figuring out how to go back to work as an occupational therapist.Her father-in-law, a Vietnam vet, also contracted the virus. He also suffered from respiratory issues and died on February 8. The family isn't sure if COVID-19 contributed to his death.“Some days I feel OK and other days I feel like I'm strong and I can do this," she said. “And then other days it just hits me. My whole world is turned upside-down.”The global death toll was approaching 2.5 million, according to Johns Hopkins.While the count is based on figures supplied by government agencies around the world, the real death toll is believed to be significantly higher, in part because of inadequate testing and cases inaccurately attributed to other causes early on.Despite efforts to administer coronavirus vaccines, a widely cited model by the University of Washington projects the US death toll will surpass 589,000 by June 1."People will be talking about this decades and decades and decades from now,” Fauci said on NBC's “Meet The Press”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-coronavirus-death-toll-approaches-milestone-of-500000-101613955167059.html
22-02-2021||World||US aviation body orders emergency inspection following Denver incident||US aviation regulators ordered emergency inspections of fan blades on the type of engine that failed Saturday over suburban Denver, spraying metal debris over a wide area.Federal Aviation Administration officials ordered the inspections after examining the hollow fan blade that failed, triggering the failure Saturday, the agency said in an emailed statement. Japan’s Civil Aviation Bureau ordered operators of the Boeing Co. 777 involved in Saturday’s incident to halt operations, according to the FAA.Meanwhile, Japan’s transport ministry on Sunday ordered ANA Holdings and Japan Airlines to ground Boeing 777 planes they operate following the Denver engine failure. ANA operates 19 planes and JAL 13 with Pratt & Whitney’s PW4000 engine that saw a failure with United Airlines plane.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/faa-orders-emergency-inspections-after-denver-jet-incident-101613952504683.html
22-02-2021||World||Farooq Abdullah asks Centre to speak to Pakistan if terrorism has to be abated||National Conference leader Farooq Abdullah on Sunday requested the Central government to speak to Pakistan while underscoring that terrorism still exists."It is true that terrorism still exists. They are wrong when they say that it has ended. If we want to end terrorism, then we must speak to our neighbours. I remember Vajpayee's remark that friends can be changed but not neighbours," Abdullah told ANI."I appeal to them (Central government) to speak to them (Pakistan) to find a way as they spoke to China and they (PLA troops) started withdrawing (from LAC)," he added.Earlier, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh asserted that the disengagement process by India and China in eastern Ladakh has been 'completed' after nine rounds of diplomatic and military level talks between the two countries.20 Indian soldiers and unspecified numbers of Chinese soldiers were killed in the Galwan Valley clash in June last year. India and China are in a standoff in eastern Ladakh along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), following aggressive border skirmishes by the Chinese army.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/farooq-abdullah-asks-centre-to-speak-to-pakistan-if-terrorism-has-to-be-abated-101613954203886.html
22-02-2021||World||Activist Malcolm X's family calls to reopen investigation into his murder||The daughters of prominent Black activist Malcolm X have called to reopen the investigation into his murder in light of new testimony implicating the New York police and the FBI."Any evidence that provides greatest insight into the truth behind that terrible tragedy should be thoroughly investigated," said Ilyasah Shabazz, one of Malcolm X's six daughters, during a press conference on Saturday.Considered alongside Martin Luther King Jr as one the most influential African Americans in history, Malcolm X was an outspoken Muslim advocate of Black rights, although critics said he preached racism and violence.He was gunned down during a public speaking appearance in New York in February 1965.When contacted Sunday by AFP, a spokesman for the Manhattan district attorney said the office's "review" of the case is "active and ongoing."During the press conference, a letter written by former New York police officer Raymond Wood, now deceased, was read out, in which he accused the NYPD and FBI of being complicit in the killing.According to his cousin, Wood, who was Black and worked as an undercover operative, claimed to have approached Malcolm X's entourage on orders from his higher-ups.Wood said he set up two of the activist's bodyguards, who were arrested only a few days before the murder.On February 21, 1965 -- 55 years ago to the day -- El-Hajj Malik El-Shabazz, Malcolm X's Muslim name, sans the two bodyguards, was shot dead by three gunmen as he prepared to give a speech in the Audubon Ballroom, a theater in Harlem, in the north of Manhattan.Wood, who did not want his testimony to become public until after his death, maintained that the New York police department and the FBI kept certain aspects of the case secret.In February 2020, after the Netflix release of the docuseries "Who Killed Malcolm X?", Manhattan district attorney Cyrus Vance asked his teams to review the case in order to determine whether or not the investigation should be reopened.When contacted Sunday by AFP, the New York police said it had released "all available records relevant to that case" to the DA's office.The NYPD "remains committed to assist with that review in any way," a spokesperson said.The FBI's New York office did not respond to AFP's request for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/activist-malcolm-x-s-family-calls-to-reopen-investigation-into-his-murder-101613952495518.html
22-02-2021||India||Actor Sachiin Joshi sent to judicial custody in ₹87-cr money laundering case||Businessman and Bollywood actor Sachiin Joshi, arrested by Enforcement Directorate (ED) on February 14 for his alleged involvement in the money laundering case, has been remanded to judicial custody by a special Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court on Monday.ED officials on Monday informed the court that the actor has not provided the required information regarding the laundering of proceeds of crime and sought his further custody for seven more days. However, the defense lawyer opposed the same saying nothing new has emerged in the ED's investigation.The special PMLA judge Abhijeet Nandgaonkar refused to extend Joshi's ED custody and remanded him to 14-days judicial custody.The ED claim its investigations in the case has so far revealed that the loans availed by Omkar Group from Yes Bank have been diverted and accused Sachiin Joshi, son of Gutkha baron JM Joshi, had helped promoters of Omkar Group in diversion for an amount of at least ₹87 crore.Joshi's name came to the fore when the anti-money laundering agency was scanning documents seized during the search and seizure operation carried out at the premises of Omkar Developers last month.The ED came across certain documents related to payments of ₹87 crore to certain outside entities (Viikings Group of companies owned by Joshi). During initial investigation, Babulal Varma and Kamal Kishore Gupta (both previously arrested by ED) had stated that these payments were made for slum evacuation and slum rehabilitation services (for certain SRA projects) and part of it was investment. However, the claim later turned out to be false.The ED said that funds were received by Joshi and his companies from various companies of Omkar Group. Part of the funds was shown as investment and part of them was shown as payment received for rendering services.When questioned about funds received as investment, the accused (Joshi) had stated that same were towards development of land near Pune. However, there was no definitive agreement between the Omkar Group and Viiking Group with respect to such a huge investment, the ED said."It is very surprising that an amount of ₹48 crore is shown as aninvestment but except for a simple term sheet dated March 15, 2019, nodefinite agreement is made. On analysing the actual utilization of the funds it shows that the said funds were utilized for various purposes such as repayment of loans, various expenses etc. However, no expense is seen to be incurred towards the stated purpose of investment," ED stated in their remand application.When ED confronted Joshi about it he simply stated that it was verbally agreed between the promoters of Omkar group and him that till full payment is received he can use the received funds according to his needs."The said reply of the accused is clearly evasive and does not reflect the true nature of the transaction. It clearly appears that the said term sheet of investment is simply used to disguise the real intention of diversion of funds received from Omkar Group of companies and park these funds on the behalf of promoters of Omkar Group. It can be seen that any prudent business transaction would involve definite black and white agreement about investment/utilization of such huge funds," the ED added.The agency said that the investigations regarding the funds received against various invoices raised by the accused, showed that the purpose mentioned in the said invoices were for facilitating settlement of non-eligible tenants and possession of constructed rehabilitation units, help in gettingconsents from society, slum dwellers, committee members, brokerage towards land deal, etc. (for some SRA projects). However, when Joshi was interrogated about whether any such actual services were rendered, he stated that no actual slum rehabilitation work was done by him but he was involved in facilitation with Omkar Group, where Omkar Group was to use his name and brand name in order to rehabilitate the tenants/settle with the tenants."This reply of the accused is clearly devoid of any truth and thus evasive. Use of brand name and/or goodwill for settlement of non-eligible tenants appears to be very farfetched in the light of the fact that neither accused nor his companies had ever done any SRA related work or Slum Rehabilitation Authority project. He himself stated that actual work was done by persons of Omkar Group only. Thus for no actual work done or no actual services rendered, the invoices were raised and funds were diverted in the name of expenses," ED had submitted before the court previously.The ED's previous remand application stated that from the cash flows of Omkar Realtors & DevelopersPvt Ltd for various years it was observed that there are huge inter-company transactions with group companies including the companies from which funds have been transferred to the accused (Joshi) and his companies.“It is established that loans availed from Yes Bank have been diverted and accused (Joshi) has helped promoters of Omkar Group in such diversion for an amount of at least Rs.87 crore,” the ED stated.Joshi was charged for offence of money-laundering under sections 3, punishable under section 4 of PMLA, 2002.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/actor-sachiin-joshi-sent-to-judicial-custody-in-rs-87-cr-money-laundering-case-101614016087576.html
22-02-2021||India||Agriculture minister insulted farmers with his remarks: Samkyukta Kisan Morcha||New Delhi, Feb 22 (PTI) Samkyukta Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of protesting farm unions, on Monday accused Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar of "insulting" farmers by his remarks that mere gathering of a crowd does not lead to revocation of the three farm laws.In a statement, the Morcha alleged that the current protests are a consequence of "deep unhappiness" and anger that was allowed to build up in farmers' minds by the government.On Sunday, Tomar had reiterated that the Centre was ready to talk to the farmers protesting against the new agriculture laws, and said that mere gathering of a crowd does not lead to revocation of legislations."Today, farmers are getting support pouring in from all sides, nationally and internationally. The protestors are not a crowd, but our annadatas, thanks to whom we are all alive today, including people in the government. "The party in power collected votes from this very crowd and this sort of insulting attitude towards our farmers is highly condemnable," the SKM said in statement. It also stated, "Tomar insulted the farmers' movement by saying that 'laws cannot be repealed by collecting a crowd'."Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and Western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at three Delhi border points --- Singhu, Ghazipur and Tikri --- for over the last 85 days, demanding a complete of three farm laws and a legal guarantee on the minimum support price for their crops.Morcha in statement congratulated the Khap leaders in several places in Uttar Pradesh for standing in solidarity with the farmers' movement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/agriculture-minister-insulted-farmers-with-his-remarks-samkyukta-kisan-morcha-101614013614190.html
22-02-2021||India||Supreme Court allows Karti Chidambaram to travel abroad after ₹2-cr deposit||The Supreme Court on Monday permitted Congress Member of Parliament Karti Chidambaram to travel to Germany, United Kingdom and France between March and June on an undertaking to deposit a sum of ₹two crore and to fully cooperate in the probe against him by the Enforcement Directorate in the INX Media case and Aircel-Maxis case.“Any absence of full cooperation on the dates of the investigation will be viewed very seriously by the Court and appropriate orders will be passed, if required,” ordered a bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and RS Reddy as it allowed the application moved by former Finance Minister P Chidambaram’s son to visit three countries between March 1 and June 23, 2021.The Court directed the Congress MP from Sivaganga, Tamil Nadu to file an undertaking in the apex court within three days failing which he shall not be allowed to go abroad. The undertaking shall include the flight details, full itinerary of his visit, places of residence in foreign countries, and date of arrival in India. On serving a copy of the undertaking to the office of the Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, the ED will release Chidambaram’s passport, and the same shall be surrendered upon his return, the Court said.The Solicitor General appeared along with Additional Solicitor General (ASG) SV Raju for the ED and informed the Court that the applicant is being probed for alleged money laundering charges in connection with the Aircel Maxis case registered in 2012 and the INX Media case registered in 2017. According to ED, companies linked to Karti Chidambaram received alleged kickbacks from companies that benefited from the Foreign Investment Promotion Board (FIPB) clearance given to them at a time when his father, P Chidambaram was the Union finance minister.The law officers informed the Court that Karti Chidambaram was required to cooperate with the probe in the two cases and his request to travel abroad should not affect the ongoing probe. ASG Raju urged the Court to direct Chidambaram to deposit ₹10 crore as security with the Court.Senior advocate Kapil Sibal objected saying that his client was a Member of Parliament who has been extended this facility in the past. “I am a Member of Parliament. Will I run away?” Sibal asked.The Solicitor General remarked that in the past, there has been an instance of a MP running away, possibly referring to liquor baron Vijay Mallya, who flew out of the country while being a Member of Parliament and hasn’t returned yet. Mallya has since been declared a fugitive economic offender at the request of ED, probing cases against him.The top court directed Karti Chidamabaram to deposit ₹2 crore as security to the court’s secretary general which would be returned on his return. The money was directed to be kept in an interest bearing account of a nationalized bank for a period of six months.The court also prohibited Karti from opening or closing any bank account overseas or entering into any kind of property transaction during his stay abroad.He was directed to appear before the investigating authorities in connection with the two cases pending against him on such dates as fixed by the Enforcement Directorate (excluding the travelling period), the bench ordered.Karti Chidambaram was last allowed to travel to multiple countries in February 2020 to attend tennis tournaments on a condition that he deposits ₹10 crore as security. He made similar trips abroad in the past years on deposit of ₹10 crore each time with the Supreme Court.In the INX Media case, the ED is probing Karti’s alleged role in obtaining FIPB clearance in 2007 to the tune of ₹305 crore for the company. According to the prosecution, INX Media engaged firms linked with Karti as strategic consultants to swing the deal in their favour and Karti’s firms received alleged kickbacks in the process. In the Aircel-Maxis case too, the ED is probing Karti's role in facilitating FIPB clearance to Global Communication Holding Services Limited for investment in telecom firm Aircel in 2006. The two transactions took place during the tenure of his father as the finance minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-allows-karti-chidambaram-to-travel-abroad-after-rs-2-cr-deposit-101614012201369.html
22-02-2021||India||In latest blow to LJP, its lone MLC in Bihar joins BJP||The severely marginalized Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) of Chirag Paswam took another hit on Monday when its lone member of legislative council (MLC) Nutan Singh, joined the ruling BJP.Singh is the latest LJP leader to jump ship. Last week, more than 200 LJP functionaries, including its state secretary Keshav Singh, had joined the JD(U). Rameshwar Chaurasia, a former MLA and a prominent BJP face who had joined Paswan’s party just ahead of the 2020 Assembly elections, also quit the party last week.Nutan Singh’s husband Neeraj Singh, of the BJP, was recently made a minister. “I joined BJP so that both of us can work jointly,” Nutan Singh said after joining the party in the presence of its state president and Lok Sabha MP Sanjay Jaiswal.After Nutan Singh’s switch, LJP has no member in the 75-member legislative council.Its lone MLA Raj Kumar Singh has fuelled speculation of joining the JD (U) after a meeting with chief minister Nitish Kumar.The JD (U) has 23 members in the legislative council, followed by the BJP (21). Two other NDA partners, HAM(S) and VIP have one member each. The opposition RJD has 6 members, Congress 4 and the CPI 2. There is one Independent MLC while 16 seats are lying vacant.Ties between the JD (U) and the LJP hit a low after Paswan’s party fielded candidates against JD (U) in the last Assembly elections and damaged the latter’s prospects.JD (U) general secretary K C Tyagi had said, “We do not consider it (LJP) as a part of the NDA.”Commenting on the latest development, HAM(S) spokesperson Danish Rizwan said Chirag Paswan’s aspirations at the cost of party has put his own house on fire.With MLC Nutal singh leaving his party and joining the BJP, how can he believe that he has an alliance with the BJP?” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-latest-blow-to-ljp-its-lone-mlc-in-bihar-joins-bjp-101614010331305.html
22-02-2021||India||'The way we treat our women...': Rahul Gandhi explains India's challenge||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday batted for women's rights in the country and termed financial independence as the foundation of empowering women.Gandhi's remarks came during his address at the Silver Jubilee Inauguration of Cherukode Women’s Cooperative Bank in Malappuram in Kerala. Gandhi had reached Calicut International Airport on Sunday to attend a padayatra in poll-bound Kerala.Stating that no country can be successful without empowering its women, Gandhi said, "I'm one of the people who are convinced that no country can be successful without empowering its women. If there's one challenge that our country faces, it's precisely the way we treat our women. You can see it in newspapers every single day," Gandhi was quoted as saying by news agency ANI in Malapurram.Gandhi said there should be no reason for women to fear walking alone at night."There's no reason why our women should be scared of walking alone at night. I think if this country has to be successful, that's one of the most important things it has to focus on," Gandhi said.If you look at empowering women, their financial independence is the foundation of that, suggested Gandhi."We can keep saying women are empowered but unless our women are financially empowered, it means nothing. That's where I value what a cooperative bank does. It trains women in how to deal with money," Gandhi said.Gandhi has consistently backed women empowerment in his public addresses.He had recently remarked on the killing of two girls in Unnao in Uttar Pradesh and slammed the chief minister Yogi Adityanath's handling of women's safety in the state."Not only of the Dalit society, but the UP government is also crushing women honour and human rights. But they should remember that I and the entire Congress Party stand as the voice of the victims and will continue to provide justice to them," Gandhi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-way-we-treat-our-women-rahul-gandhi-explains-india-s-challenge-101614006086502.html
22-02-2021||India||UP allocates ₹479 crore in budget for madrasa modernisation scheme||The Uttar Pradesh government has allocated ₹479 crore under the madrasa modernisation scheme in the state budget 2021-22.Officials of the madrasa board hailed the allocation and said it would help in imparting quality education to students, especially when it comes to modern subjects like maths, English, Hindi, science and home science.“The UP government has allocated ₹479 crore in the state budget. This allocation will help us in imparting quality education in madrasas. It would also help us in the madrasa modernisation plan,” said RP Singh, registrar, UP Board of madrasa education.There are 131 registered madrasas in Lucknow. As per the data with the board, 62 of these madrasas have been covered so far under the modernisation plan, which is funded by both central and state governments.The data suggests that there are around 16,000 registered madrasas in the state (out of which 558 are aided ones) in which around 20 lakh students are enrolled.“Under the madrasa modernisation plan, we basically hire teachers for modern subjects in order to impart quality education to students. At present we have hired around 7,500 teachers so far under the plan. However, with the help of the fresh allocated funds, we will be able to hire more teachers in the days to come,” said Singh.Singh further said that under the plan, the state government allocates 40 per cent and central government 60 per cent of the funds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-allocates-rs-479-crore-in-budget-for-madrasa-modernisation-scheme-101614009174085.html
22-02-2021||India||'India committed to no-first-use policy under nuclear doctrine': Shringla||India is committed to maintaining a credible minimum deterrence under its nuclear doctrine with a posture of no-first-use, foreign secretary Harsh Shringla said on Monday while addressing a conference on nuclear disarmament.The country also looks forward to the early start of negotiations on a legally binding instrument on the prevention of an arms race in outer space, Shringla said in his address to the high-level segment of the Conference on Disarmament organised under the presidency of Brazil.The Conference on Disarmament was formed in 1979 as the world community’s single multilateral disarmament negotiation forum.“India, as a responsible nuclear weapon state, is committed as per its nuclear doctrine, to maintain credible minimum deterrence with the posture of no-first-use and non-use against non-nuclear-weapon states,” Shringla said.Describing the prevention of an arms race in outer space (PAROS) as a long-standing item on the Conference on Disarmament’s agenda, he said, “India looks forward to an early start of negotiations of a legally binding instrument on PAROS to address pressing issues relating to space security.”Reaffirming India’s readiness to participate in negotiations on a Fissile Material Cut-off Treaty (FMCT) at the Conference on Disarmament, Shringla said, “India has supported the immediate commencement of negotiations in the CD on a FMCT on the basis of CD/1299 and the mandate contained therein, which remains the most suitable basis for negotiations.”Also read: 'Mamata Banerjee’s white saree, slippers a façade' - MP minister Narottam MishraCD/1299 was established in March 1995 as an ad-hoc committee for talks on a “ban on the production of fissile material for nuclear weapons or other nuclear explosive devices”.Shringla said India backs a comprehensive and balanced programme of work to enable the Conference on Disarmament to begin negotiations on issues of pressing importance. India is also committed to universal, non-discriminatory and verifiable nuclear disarmament and outlined a step-by-step process for the complete elimination of nuclear weapons through its working paper submitted in 2007, he added.“India has welcomed the extension of the New START Treaty between the Russian Federation and the US. However, much work needs to be done by us in the Conference on Disarmament,” he said.“We need to rise above our differences, and demonstrate political will and genuine intent to find consensus to deliver on our collective mandate. Those resorting to politicisation only weaken the mandate of this body,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-committed-to-no-first-use-policy-under-nuclear-doctrine-shringla-101614009090979.html
22-02-2021||India||Hindustan Shipyard to build 5 naval support vessels with Turkish help||Visakhapatnam-based Hindustan Shipyard Limited (HSL) is expecting an order from the Indian Navy by the year end for building five mammoth naval support vessels with transfer of technology from a Turkish shipbuilding firm, people familiar with the developments said on Monday.The project, estimated to cost between $1.5 billion and $2 billion, will involve transfer of technology from Anadolu Shipyard, part of the TAIS consortium of Turkey, with which HSL signed an agreement for technical collaboration last year.HSL is expected to deliver the first fleet support vessel (FSV) to the navy within four years of the go-ahead, with the other ships to be delivered at the rate of one every 10 months to 12 months. The vessels will be 230 metres long and have a displacement of 45,000 tonnes. FSVs carry fuel and other supplies for warships.“The agreement with the Turkish consortium will kick in after HSL gets an order from the Indian Navy. If all goes well, that could happen by October 2021. Several Indian vendors will also be involved in the project,” said one of the people cited above, speaking on condition of anonymity.Unlike other massive projects of this type, which usually witness at least one of the vessels being constructed in the country providing the technology and know-how, the Turkish side has decided to go ahead with transfer of technology from the initial stages and back the “Make in India” initiative by constructing all five vessels at HSL, said a second person who too declined to be named.“Turkey’s shipyards are fully booked for a long time and there is nothing to lose by transferring technology and having all the vessels built in India. Turkish engineers will come to India to assist with the project,” the second person said.Besides designs, the Turkish consortium will provide engineering services, planning and preparation of specifications, the people said. The transfer of technology will also boost India’s shipbuilding capabilities, they added.Maritime affairs expert, Rear Admiral (retired) Sudarshan Shrikhande, said: “There is a need for the navy to have fleet support ships. While HSL may have a sort of a collaborative arrangement for transfer of technology and building these in Visakhapatnam, one is not aware if a contract may be in the offing or whether discussions are continuing.”TAIS, which is a member of Turkey's largest industrial group, and HSL concluded an agreement for cooperation in the first quarter of last year, after the issue had come under a cloud for some time because of Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan’s criticism of the Indian government’s decision to scrap Jammu and Kashmir’s special status in 2019. Questions were also raised in some quarters because of the strong defence ties between Turkey and Pakistan.The Turkish consortium was the lowest bidder for the contract to make the FSVs. Moreover, some other bidders had insisted that at least one of the vessels should be made in a foreign shipyard. The agreement with TAIS was signed after clearance by the Indian defence ministry, the people cited above said.Sameer Patil, fellow for international security studies at Gateway House, said both countries were displaying pragmatism against a backdrop of long-standing concerns in India about Turkey’s defence relationship with Pakistan.“Turkey under President Erdogan has focused on building commercial relations with all countries. This pragmatism is being seen in this effort to collaborate with India despite the proximity with Pakistan. India wants to build its naval capabilities and Turkey has a defence industry that is very advanced,” he said.“If Turkey is offering transfer of technology, why should we say no?” Patil said, noting that Turkish company Savronik was given sub-contracts for building key parts of the strategic Atal Tunnel under Rohtang Pass in Himachal Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hindustan-shipyard-to-build-5-naval-support-vessels-with-turkish-help-101614007642406.html
22-02-2021||India||News updates from HT: Covid-19 recoveries in Delhi cross 626,000 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Delhi logs 128 new Covid-19 cases; total recoveries over 626,000Delhi on Monday registered 128 coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases and one more related death which pushed the overall tally and death toll to 638,028 and 10,901 respectively, according to the health department’s bulletin. Read moreIndia vs England: Umesh Yadav added to squad for last 2 Test matchesFast bowler Umesh Yadav was on Monday added to the Indian squad for the last two Test matches against England, which will be played at Ahmedabad. Read moreKapil Sharma snaps at paparazzi as they rush to photograph him on wheelchair, they object to him swearing at them. WatchComedian and actor Kapil Sharma lost his cool as the paparazzi hounded him at the airport. He could be seen in a wheelchair, as the photographers rushed to get good shots of him. He angrily snapped at them. Read moreNetflix will now automatically download recommended shows, movies for youNetflix today launched a new feature called “Downloads For You.” This feature will automatically download recommended shows or movies based on your tastes. Read moreBhediya: Varun Dhawan shows off bod in new post. Here are his fitness secretsVarun Dhawan gave fans some major Monday motivation as he posted shirtless photos of himself, very subtly plugging in his latest onscreen endeavour, Bhediya, in the caption with a simple wolf emoji. Read moreWatch: Bomb found at rail crossing in J&K's Srinagar; forces do controlled blastBomb squad personnel were seen carrying the alleged IED with a contraption before it was neutralised in a controlled explosion. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-covid-19-recoveries-in-delhi-cross-6-26-000-patients-101614005904545.html
22-02-2021||India||Defamation case against Amit Shah sent back to lower court after summons gaffe||A special court designated for MPs and MLAs in West Bengal, which was hearing the defamation suit filed by TMC MP Abhishek Banerjee against Union home minister Amit Shah, sent back the case to the Metropolitan Magistrate’s court on Monday as the summons was sent to the BJP’s office in Kolkata instead of Shah’s residence in New Delhi.“The court said that the address in which the summons was served was wrong. It should be served at the New Delhi address. So, the matter has been sent back to the lower court. Fresh proceedings need to be started,” said Brajesh Jha, advocate and convenor of the state BJP’s legal cell.The MP-MLA court had on Friday summoned Shah to appear before it either personally or through a lawyer on Monday in connection with a defamation suit filed by Banerjee, who also happens to be the nephew of chief minister Mamata Banerjee.“The summons against Shah was sent to the BJP’s office in Kolkata. The court said on Monday that the summons should be sent to Shah’s Delhi address. As this (MP-MLA court) is a trial court and the suit was originally filed in Metropolitan Magistrate’s court, the case has been sent back,” said Subhojit Saha, one of Banerjee’s lawyerOn August 11, 2018 Shah allegedly made certain defamatory statements against Banerjee while addressing the Yuva Swabhiman Samavesh Rally of the BJP at Mayo Road in Kolkata.“Shah brought allegations of corruption against Banerjee. He alleged that Banerjee was involved in syndicate corruption and siphoned off money which was sent by the Centre,” the TMC leader’s senior counsel Sanjay Basu claimed.A criminal complaint case was filed on August 28, 2018 under section 500 of the Indian Penal Code (punishment for defamation).The summons was served at a time when Bengal is preparing for state assembly elections in which the BJP is mounting a strong challenge to the Trinamool Congress. Over the past few years, the BJP has emerged as the TMC’s main rival. In the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, the party won 40% of the vote share and 18 of the 42 seats in the state. The TMC won 43% of the vote share and 22 seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/defamation-case-against-amit-shah-sent-back-to-lower-court-after-summons-gaffe-101614006049444.html
22-02-2021||India||IT dept finds undisclosed income of ₹450 cr of MP Cong lawmaker’s company||The income tax department has found irregularities and undisclosed income of about ₹450 crore during search and seizure operations at 22 premises of a Betul-based soya products group owned by Congress MLA in Madhya Pradesh, Nilay Daga and his brothers at Betul and Satna in Madhya Pradesh, Mumbai and Solapur in Maharashtra and Kolkata.The search operations that began on Thursday ended on Sunday.“During the course of the search operation, unexplained cash of over ₹8 crore and unexplained foreign currency of various countries amounting to more than Rs. 44 lakh have been seized. 9 bank lockers have also been found during the search,” the IT department said in a statement without naming Daga."We received information about tax evasion through the formation of shell companies to convert unaccounted money into accounted ones. The information was found correct and we found huge irregularities during the searches," said a senior officer of the IT department who confirmed that Daga’s premises had been searched.The bank lockers found in Betul and Solapur during the searches will be opened on Tuesday, said the officer.“The group has also introduced undisclosed income of ₹90 crore in its books of accounts by way of sale of paper investments in shell companies to another set of shell companies of Kolkata. None of the companies was found to be operational at their shown address and the group could not confirm the identity of such paper companies or any of its Directors. Many of these paper companies were found to be struck off by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs,” the statement said.During the search, officials found that the group showed a loss of ₹52 crore to suppress their profits by indulging in intra-group out-of-exchange contract settlement.Various companies were formed in the name of employees to carry out these transactions, while there was no actual business carried out between them. Directors of these companies were not aware about any such transactions, the statement said.“The group has also claimed incorrect Long Term Capital Gains exemption of over ₹27 crore on sale of shares of a group entity. Investigations revealed that the purchase of these shares was not genuine as group directors purchased shares of this entity at nominal value from non-existent Kolkata-based shell companies. Various types of evidence including chats among key persons of the group reflects unexplained cash payment and hawala transactions of over ₹15 crore,” the statement said.“Incriminating evidence in the form of digital media such as laptops, hard drives, pen drives etc have been found and seized. From the investigation so far, undisclosed income over Rs. 450 crore has been detected,” it said.Daga, who reached Bhopal on Monday to attend the budget session of the legislative assembly, could not be contacted despite repeated attempts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/it-dept-finds-undisclosed-income-of-rs-450-cr-of-mp-cong-lawmaker-s-company-101614002160252.html
22-02-2021||India||Budget set aside for boosting domestic defence buys: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday said that a portion of the country’s defence budget for 2021-22 was reserved for buying locally produced weapons and systems to boost defence indigenisation, and stressed that the 21st century defence manufacturing ecosystem could not come up without the partnership of the private sector.“It has been our endeavour since 2014 to bring about transparency, predictability and ease of doing business in the defence sector. We have taken several steps such as de-licencing, de-regulation, export promotion and foreign investment liberalisation,” the PM said at a seminar on ‘Budget Announcements 2021-22: Galvanising Efforts for Atmanirbhar Bharat’.The PM spoke about the government’s negative import list that was released last year and which seeks to ban the import of 101 types of weapons, systems and ammunition over the next five years to promote self-reliance in the defence sector.It may be described as a negative list but in the language of self-reliance, it is a positive list, he said. “It is a positive list on the strength of which our own manufacturing capacity is going to increase. This is a positive list that will create jobs in India… This is a positive list as it guarantees that products made in India will be sold in India,” Modi said.This year, the government is likely to notify a second list of weapons, systems and ammunition that cannot be imported.The PM said India should position itself as a defence exporter and take steps to boost its defence manufacturing capabilities as smaller countries will increasingly turn to India for their defence requirements.“The changes in the world order have made smaller nations aware of the need to strengthen their defence. It is one of their primary concerns. It is natural for these nations to look to India to strengthen their defence capabilities,” he said, adding that India was exporting military hardware to 40 countries.He said the country’s military leadership had fully supported reforms in the defence sector.The defence minister said the ₹70,221 crore to be spent on domestic defence procurement this year accounted for 63% of the military’s capital budget. Last year, the ministry spent over ₹51,000 crore, or 58% of the capital budget, on domestic purchases.“This increase will have a positive impact on enhanced domestic procurement, having a multiplier effect on our industries including micro, small and medium enterprises and start-ups. It would also increase employment in the defence sector,” Singh said.Experts welcomed the move to allocate funds for domestic procurement.“It’s a positive development, provided substantially important operational items are purchased through this route. Many joint ventures are working well including radars with Israel and BrahMos missiles with the Russians. Hindustan Aeronautics Limited is producing good helicopters. And, then there are the light combat aircraft variants. The unmanned systems of the private sector also hold potential,” said Air Marshal Anil Chopra (retd), director general, Centre for Air Power Studies.On the second negative import list, the defence minister said the secretary, department of military affairs - General Bipin Rawat - should consider putting on the list certain parts that are being imported so that the items can be indigenised.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/budget-set-aside-for-boosting-domestic-defence-buys-pm-modi-101614004492765.html
22-02-2021||India||After Sonar Bangla, PM Modi calls for Ashol Paribarton in poll-bound Bengal||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday called for Ashol Paribartan (real transformation) in West Bengal, where assembly elections are due in the next two months, while mounting a scathing attack on the Mamata Banerjee-led ruling Trinamool Congress.He also flagged off the extension of the city’s north-south Metro corridor from Noapara to Dakshineshwar along with a slew of other railway projects. Chief minister Banerjee, however, skipped the function.“West Bengal needs the Bharatiya Janata Party-government not just for change in power, but for Ashol Paribartan. In a bid to bring in Ashol Paribartan in the present situation of Bengal, the lotus should bloom here,” Modi said while adding that people of Bengal has already decided for a change.He was addressing a public rally in Hooghly district, around 50 km north of Kolkata. It was the Prime Minister’s second public rally this month in the poll-bound eastern state where the BJP had made deep inroads winning 18 of the 42 seats in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls.“Development of Bengal is not possible till the time there is syndicate-rule, reign of extortionists, culture of cut money (commission) and an administration that gives shelter to goons. We cannot have development till rule of law is established and the government listens to the common man. Voices are being raised from every corner demanding Ashol Paribartan,” he added as he sharpened his attack against the TMC.Paribartan was the main slogan of the Trinamool Congress in 2011 when it uprooted the 34-year-old Left Front government. Earlier Union home minister Amit Shah and BJP president JP Nadda had said that BJP would transform the state into Sonar Bangla (Golden Bengal) in five years.“Injustice has been done with the pride of Bengal. There is a big politics behind this. It is that politics which gives power to appeasement instead of development and supports vote-bank over patriotism. The same politics stops people in Bengal from performing Durga Puja,” Modi added.The Prime Minister alleged that the TMC government was not allowing development schemes to be implemented in the state.“You will be surprised to know what they (TMC) have done to Bengal. Even the country would be surprised to know that out of the 1.5 to 1.75 crore rural households in West Bengal only around two lakh households had access to piped water. Under the Jal Jeevan Mission around 3.6 crore households have received piped water in the country. Even after we released funds and stepped up our efforts only nine lakh households in the state could get piped water. The pace with which the TMC government is working it would take years for households to get piped water,” he said.He said that there is no dearth of enthusiasm to invest in Bengal but it is the environment, which the government has created - the alleged culture of cut-money and syndicate, which is posing a problem.“Every son and daughter of Bengal, settled abroad, wants to do something for the state. But they have a complaint – how to contribute even if they want to? Even if you want to take a building on rent you need to pay cut money. They are so notorious that they take cut money from both sides. Without the syndicate’s permission they can’t even take a building on rent,” he said.He said that while the Centre sends money directly to the bank accounts of farmers and the poor people, the funds of the West Bengal government can’t reach the people without the sanction of extortionists backed by the TMC.“It for this reason that while TMC leaders in villages are getting richer while the common man is getting poorer. “The Centre released ₹1,700 crore to the TMC-government. But only ₹609 crore was used. The government is sitting on the remaining ₹1,100 crores. This shows that the TMC-government is not bothered about the poor and the daughters of Bengal,” he said.On Saturday the TMC had launched its main campaign slogan - ‘Bangla Nijer Meyekei Chay’ (Bengal wants its own daughter) projecting Mamata Banerjee as the daughter of Bengal.The TMC hit back at the Prime Minister and refuted allegations of appeasement."The Prime Minister never spoke about the rising fuel and LPG prices. He never spoke out the farmers protesting in Delhi. He should see whats happening in Gujarat before raising some baseless allegations against West Bengal," said Kunal Ghosh, TMC spokesperson.TMC MP Saugata Roy said "Modi has raised some false and baseless allegations. Mamata Baneerjee herself inaugurates around 200 Durga Pujas. All Durga Puja need to take permission from local police. May be one or two were not give permission. The chief minister also gave ₹50,000 to clubs to perform puja," said He warned that it would be "devastating" if the BJP comes to power in Bengal. "The BJP is not in power. But their workers and leaders have already started extortion. If BJP comes to power then it would be devastating," said Roy.He also accused the Centre withholding money to Bengal."The Centre never gives any money. They are not releasing the GST share. After cyclone Amphan they released just around R 3,700 crores. It is the BJP's propaganda," said Roy||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-sonar-bangla-pm-modi-calls-for-ashol-paribarton-in-poll-bound-bengal-101614004155456.html
22-02-2021||India||Number of Covid-19 cases dip in Mumbai, zero death recorded; Maharashtra tally down too||Mumbai on Monday recorded a marginal dip in the number of cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). According to the state health department, the city recorded 761 new cases of the infection, down from 921 on Sunday. This pushed the number of cases in India's financial capital to 3,19,889.And in a major relief, Mumbai did not register any fatality due to Covid-19 today, the health department update showed.Maharashtra too recorded a lower caseload on Monday - 5,210 - instead of 6,971 on Sunday. With this, the total number of cases in the state reached 21,06,094.The state recorded 18 deaths due to Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, which pushed the death toll to 51,806. The state is among the top contributors to the coronavirus caseload of the country.The Centre had recently sent a letter to Maharashtra and other states with high Covid-19 caseload asking them to intensify the efforts to combat the disease. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, addressing the state virtually on Sunday, had warned the people that if they do not follow Covid-19 appropriate behaviour, the state government could impose a lockdown.He had also announced a number of curbs to check the spread of the disease in the state.Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope, who has tested positive for Covid-19, wrote a letter urging people of the state to follow Covid-19 restrictions as another lockdown would be “unaffordable”.Amravati, one of the worst-affected districts in Maharashtra, has already been placed under a week-long lockdown from 8 pm today. Amravati’s guardian minister Yashomati Thakur said the lockdown will be in force till 8 am on March 1.“During the lockdown, all shops, except those dealing in essential commodities, will remain shut along with the government and private educational institutions, private coaching classes, training schools. People can buy items of daily need from 9 am to 5 pm," the minister had said on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/number-of-covid-19-cases-dip-in-mumbai-zero-death-recorded-maharashtra-tally-down-too-101614004207061.html
22-02-2021||India||Couple poses with state chopper in pre-wedding shoot; 1 suspended||A driver in the Chhattisgarh civil aviation department was suspended after photographs of a pre-wedding photo shoot featuring a couple posing with a state chopper went viral on social media on Monday.The groom was a friend of the driver who arranged the photo shoot in the state hangar.Driver Yogeshwar Sai was suspended for violating the safety norms of state hangar and shunted to directorate of aviation Nava Raipur.Police said that the couple was from Jashpur district and got photographed at the state hangar with the state chopper “AW 109 Power Elite” at Police lines, Raipur, last month.A senior police official said that the photos were first shared on Facebook.“The pre-wedding shoot of the couple took place on January 20. A driver of the state aviation department took the couple inside the hangar and told the guard that they have got permission. Since the guard knew the driver, he did not object and the photographs were taken,” said Raipur Superintendent of Police Ajay Yadav, adding a probe has been ordered.“Additional Superintendent of Police (Raipur Rural) will investigate the whole issue and report within a week,” said the SP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/couple-poses-with-state-chopper-in-pre-wedding-shoot-1-suspended-101614002686747.html
22-02-2021||India||Rajya Sabha bypolls: BJP wins both seats from Gujarat, 1 of them held by Ahmed Patel||BJP nominees Dineshchandra Anavadiya and Rambhai Mokariya were on Monday declared elected unopposed to the Rajya Sabha from Gujarat as the opposition Congress did not field candidates for the two vacant seats, one of which was held by its veteran leader Ahmed Patel.The two seats had fallen vacant following the demise of the sitting MPs belonging to the Congress and the BJP.One of the seats was held by veteran Congressman Ahmed Patel since 1993 till his death on November 25 last year due to complications related to Covid-19.The other seat fell vacant as BJP's Abhay Bharadwaj, a first time MP elected to the RS in 2019, too, died on December 1 due to the coronavirus infection.Returning C B Pandya declared Anavadiya and Mokariya as elected uncontested from the two seats on Monday, which was the last date of withdrawal of forms.Two dummy candidates of the BJP, Rajnikant Patel and Kirit Solanki, withdrew their nominations on Saturday.With the bypoll to the two seats scheduled to be held separately, the Congress, with 65 MLAs in the 182-member Assembly, decided not to field any candidate due to negligible chances of winning against the BJP which has 111 legislators.Anavadiya, a long-time BJP leader from Banaskantha, had also served as director of Gujarat State Road Transport Corporation between 2014-17, while Mokariya, owner of a courier firm, has been with the party for almost 40 years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajya-sabha-bypolls-bjp-wins-both-seats-1-of-them-held-by-ahmed-patel-101614003046476.html
22-02-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi leads tractor rally against farm laws in Kerala||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi led a tractor rally in Kerala’s Wayanad on Monday to protest against the Centre’s farm laws and questioned Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s silence on the farmers’ protests that’s been raging for more than two months.“We have pop stars who are commenting on the situation of the farmers but the Indian government is not interested. The government is not going to take back these laws unless it is forced to. These three laws are designed to destroy the agriculture system in the country and give the entire business to two or three friends of PM Modi,” said Gandhi after taking out a tractor rally in Wayanad, his parliamentary constituency, ahead of the upcoming polls in the southern state.“Agriculture is the only business that belongs to Bharat Mata and few people want to own this business,” he said, urging people to force the government to take back three laws that are detrimental to the farming community.Gandhi drove the tractor from Thrikaripatta to Muttil covering six km, accompanied by several vehicles.The Left Democratic Front in Kerala, led by chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, and the Congress-led opposition United Democratic Front have strongly opposed the Centre's new farm laws.Gandhi, however, hit out at the ruling party while criticising the draft notification of the Centre on the Eco-Sensitive Zone (ESZ) in Wayanad. He said the Centre informed Parliament that the rules were based on a report submitted by the state government.“We were really shocked to hear this,” he said.People living in fringe areas of forest say many human settlements will come under the zone and the new announcement will adversely affect their lives.State leaders have asked Gandhi to campaign extensively in the upcoming assembly elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-leads-tractor-rally-against-farm-laws-in-kerala-101614001236275.html
22-02-2021||India||Ayodhya's 'Maryada Purushottam Sriram airport' gets ₹101 crore in budget||The under-construction airport in Ayodhya, to be named Maryada Purushottam Sriram Airport after Lord Ram, secured ₹101 crore from the Uttar Pradesh government in the budget presented in the state Assembly on Monday.The Uttar Pradesh cabinet had approved a proposal to name the upcoming airport in Ayodhya in November last year.After the cabinet decision, deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya had tweeted in Hindi and said that the UP government is committed to positioning Ayodhya as a top religious spot globally."Yogi government’s cabinet has approved the naming of Ayodhya airport as Maryada Purshotam Shriram Airport. Your state government is committed towards positioning Shriram Lala’s city Ayodhya among the top religious places in the world,” Maurya had said in the tweet.Besides the provision for Ayodhya airport, which will subsequently be upgraded to international airport, the budget also provides for ₹2,000 crore for increasing the number of airstrips at Jewar Airport from two to six.Cities like Aligarh, Moradabad, Meerut will also be linked through air service soon, chief minister Yogi Adityanath told reporters after the presentation of the budget by finance minister Suresh Khanna.The government also set aside funds for the Ganga Expressway Project, which links Meerut to Allahabad as a provision of ₹7,200 crore has been made for land acquisition and ₹489 crore for construction work.A provision of ₹12,441 crore has been made for the construction of roads and bridges under the Public Works Department and a budget of ₹4,135 crore proposed for the maintenance of roads and bridges. A budget of ₹695 crore has been proposed for connecting villages and habitations with pucca link roads.The budget also provides for ₹440 crore for construction of roads under World Bank Aided Uttar Pradesh Core Road Network Project and ₹208 crore for construction of roads under the Asian Development Bank assisted UP Mukhya Zila Vikas Pariyojna.Besides, a budget of ₹1,192 crore is proposed for the construction of railway overbridges.(With inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ayodhyas-maryada-purushottam-sriram-airport-gets-rs-101-crore-in-budget-101613995863518.html
22-02-2021||India||Amit Shah reviews Covid-19 situation as some states report spike in cases||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Monday reviewed the Covid-19 situation in the country in the wake of sudden spike in cases in a few states.The review meeting was also attended by Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan, Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla and top officials of the two ministries.The home minister took stock of the coronavirus situation in the country, particularly in the states which have witnessed a spike in cases recently, a home ministry official said.The ongoing vaccination drive and the steps needed to check further spread of the virus were discussed in the meeting, the official said.The possible assistance to be offered to the affected states was also discussed in the meeting, another official said.There have been reports of sudden spike in the number of Covid-19 cases in states such as Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-reviews-covid-19-situation-as-some-states-report-spike-in-cases-101613999867352.html
22-02-2021||India||'Use cow-dung CNG to get cheap energy': National cow commission||Amid rising fuel prices, India’s national cow commission has suggested people to use cow dung-bascompressed natural gas (CNG) to get “cheaper and made in India energy". The commission made the suggestion in a document it uploaded on its website for those appearing for the national ‘cow science exam’ to be held on February 25.The Rashtriya Kamdhenu Aayog or RKA (national cow commission) proposed cow-dung CNG pumps for vehicles, bull semen banks and cow tourism as part of their initiative to encourage "cow entrepreneurship".“The cow entrepreneurship concept got discussed in many of RKA’s webinars. Many entrepreneurs across the globe have started exploring these evergreen possibilities utilizing new-age technology with age-old wisdom," the RKA said on its website.“Biogas has been used for a long time as fuel. They are filled in cylinders and could be used for cooking. The energy from cow dung could also be used in transportation. By generating it at a bigger scale, one can set up CNG pumps. Transportation industry will get cheaper and easily available made-in-India energy," the website added.Petrol prices have touched Rs89.29 a litre and diesel costs Rs79.70 a litre in Delhi. In other parts of India, such as Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh, the price has already surged past the ₹100-mark.The commission, which falls under the animal husbandry department of the Union government, claimed that cow dung can generate huge profits and offer attractive business opportunities. The other idea it put forth, of “semen banks" for bulls, is an attractive business opportunity, it said, adding that cow rearers and entrepreneurs prefer high-quality pedigree bulls and pay a good amount to procure them.As part of cow tourism, the commission talks about the idea of “cow hugging" for health benefits. In India, it said, the concept of ‘cow tourism’ is gaining momentum.“A place where economic, health, environmental benefits of cows is to be showcased. In Rajasthan, there are guest houses with walls, floors made up of cow dung. Only organic foods are served. Such spots are attracting foreigners, who, after spending some days, return rejuvenated. The sky is the limit for creative business ideas in this segment," it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/use-cow-dung-cng-to-get-cheap-energy-national-cow-commission-101613999643377.html
22-02-2021||India||When crowds gather, governments get changed: BKU leader Rakesh Tikait||Farmer leader Rakesh Tikait on Monday took a dig at Union Minister Narendra Singh Tomar's remark that mere gathering of crowd does not lead to revocation of laws, saying when people gather governments get changed.The Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader, who has held a series of 'kisan mahapanchayats' in Haryana this month, also warned that the government could find it difficult to stay in power if the new agri-marketing laws are not repealed.The farmers' stir against the laws will continue till the time the Centre accepts their demands of repealing the legislations, Tikait said while addressing a farmers' 'mahapanchayat' at Kharkhoda in the state's Sonipat district.On Sunday, Union agriculture minister Tomar had in Gwalior said the Centre was ready to talk to the farmers protesting against the new laws, and that mere gathering of crowd does not lead to revocation of legislations.He had urged the agitating farm unions to tell the government which provisions in these new laws they find anti-farmer.Hitting back at Tomar for his remark, Tikait said, "The minister says that mere gathering of crowd does not lead to revocation of legislations.""They have lost their mind. When crowds gather governments get changed," he told the farmers' gathering.Farmers, mostly from Haryana, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh, have been protesting at Delhi's borders since November 28 last year demanding rollback of the laws."They (the government) should know if farmers can destroy their own produce, then you are nothing before them," Tikait said."There are many questions, it is not only the farm laws, but the electricity (amendment) bill, the seed bill… what kind of laws do they want to bring?" he asked and slammed the government for rise in prices of diesel and petrol.Tikait said that this agitation is not just of farmers, but also of the poor, daily wagers and other sections."These laws will destroy the poor. This is not just one law, many more laws like these will come," he said.Referring to the farmer leaders spearheading the agitation, the BKU leader also reiterated that the government will have to talk to the same committee of 40 members.The government has held 11 rounds of negotiation with protesting unions and these have remained inconclusive with regard to rollback of the laws.The agitation against the laws at Delhi's borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh is being led by the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha, which is an umbrella body of 40 farmer unions. Tikait said this stir will go on and farmers will work in their fields simultaneously.Demanding a law on minimum support price (MSP) for farmers, he said, "When a law on MSP will be framed, farmers will be protected. This stir is about that, this is about rights of farmers." Tikait had recently said farmers will not return home till the farm laws are repealed and had added that farmers should be ready to sacrifice their standing crop for it.The unions are protesting against the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. The three farm laws, enacted in September last year, have been projected by the government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove middlemen and allow farmers to sell anywhere in the country.However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of MSP and do away with the mandis, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates. The Centre has repeatedly asserted that these mechanisms will remain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/when-crowds-gather-governments-get-changed-bku-leader-rakesh-tikait-101613998443175.html
22-02-2021||India||Nepal opens border for Indians, registration and Covid-19 report must for entry||Nepal has reopened its border at Gaddha Chowk, an entry point in western Nepal near Banbasa area of Champawat, for Indians after 11 months but with Covid-19 restrictions.Registration and Covid-19 test report are mandatory for entry into Nepal. The border was sealed from either side in March but the Indian government had given some relaxation to the Nepalese to cross the border, said an official.Himanshu Kafaltia, sub-divisional magistrate, Tanakpur, confirmed the development and said, “Nepal has re-opened the border for Indians but registration and Covid-19 test report are a must for the entry. Nepal has already launched an app for registration, Indians can register their names on the app or can register at the border before entry.”The India-Nepal border had been sealed on March 23, 2020, in a bid to check the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic. Nepal didn’t even allow its citizens to enter initially. Citizens of both countries were stuck and had to stay in relief or quarantine centres set up by either side by respective governments. Later, the Indian government provided some relaxation to the Nepalese to cross the border.Also read: India extends $100 mn line of credit for defence equipment to MauritiusAfter 10 months, Nepal announced the Banbasa border to be opened on January 29 but under the standard operating procedure (SOP). The border, however, could not be reopened due to a lack of guidelines from the Nepalese government. Nepal Covid-19 crisis management centre in Kathmandu had launched an app a few days ago for Indians who intend to visit Nepal, said an official.Indians will have to register their names on the app and will have to upload the required information such as a permanent address, mode of travelling, mobile number. The Nepalese authorities will only permit their entry after producing registration information and Covid-19 test reports. This exercise is being implemented in a bid to check the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic in Nepal, said an official.Kafaltia said, “Nepal Armed Police Force (NAPF) deployed at the border will monitor the movement and help in spot registration if someone fails to register on the app. Private vehicles will not be allowed but those for essential and emergency services will not be restricted.”Notably, the Indian government had allowed Nepalese with Indian documents to cross the border during the lockdown period. They could cross over to Nepal between 6 to 10 am daily from the Banbasa entry point. Banbasa of Champawat is one among 19 notified entry points along the border, the official said.Nepalese ex-servicemen who had worked with the Indian security forces also suffered problems in drawing their pensions from Indian banks in bordering areas. They were given certain dates to cross the Indian border and draw the pensions.Bharat Bhandari, former president of the local traders union of Banbasa, hailed the reopening of the border. He, however, expressed apprehensions and said, “It is good that Nepal has reopened the border. Our Banbasa’s 80 per cent trade depends on Nepalese customers. Every time, registration and Covid-19 test report may create problems for traders of India as well as the visitors. Nepalese government should give some more relaxation in favour of Indians.”Vinod Kala, a local resident of Banbasa, said, “the Nepalese government must permit private vehicles of India. This will save time as well as give comfort to Indian visitors and traders.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nepal-opens-border-for-indians-registration-and-covid-19-report-must-for-entry-101613998431681.html
22-02-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi explains how 3 farm laws will hurt agriculture sector, vows Congress will force govt to withdraw them||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday dissected the three farm laws, against which the farmers have been protesting near Delhi for months, to attack the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led central government.Addressing a gathering of farmers in Kerala's Wayanad, his Lok Sabha constituency, Gandhi said explained how the three laws will be detrimental to the country's agriculture sector.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage"The first law says that the biggest businesses in the country and outside can buy the farmers produce anywhere and any amount. This law will destroy the concept of mandis and farmers' market. The second law says that the biggest businesses in the country can store as much grain, fruits and vegetables as they want, for as long as they want. This is a direct attack on Essential Commodities Act, and has been designed to ensure farmer can't negotiate for price," said the former Congress president."Third law is the most fantastic of them all. It says that if the farmer has a dispute about the price of what he is selling, he cannot go to court. It takes away the legal rights of the farmers," said Gandhi.He said that the Congress party is against these laws and will force the government to repeal them. "We are standing with the farmers, we will help them and ensure the BJP Govt takes back these laws," said Gandhi.He repeated his remark about the agriculture sector going in the hands of corporate houses and said that this business belongs to 'Bharat Maata'.Gandhi also held a tractor rally from Thrikkaipetta to Muttil to express solidarity with the protesting farmers.Also Read: Rahul Gandhi leads tractor rally against farm laws in KeralaFarmers have been protesting at the different borders of the national capital since November last year, against the three newly enacted farm laws - Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.The Congress has been attacking the government over the three laws, but the Centre has accused the opposition party of running a "misinformation campaign" and trying to mislead the farmers.The government has said that the three laws are historic and will bring about much-needed changes in the agriculture sector. Prime Minister Narendra Modi too has said that these laws are meant to empower small farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-explains-how-3-farm-laws-will-hurt-agriculture-sector-vows-congress-will-force-govt-to-withdraw-them-101613997809497.html
22-02-2021||India||Can’t afford Mumbai rent, says Varavara Rao’s family on court’s bail condition||The family of octogenarian Pendyala Varavara Rao, noted revolutionary poet, is relieved that the Bombay High Court on Monday granted medical bail to him in the Bhima Koregaon violence case, but it has another worry on its hands: where to house him in Mumbai. The court order said that the poet cannot go back to Hyderabad, his home.“It is really a big relief for all of us that he would be out of jail after a gap of more than two-and-a-half years. But it is unfortunate that the court did not grant him permission to return to his home in Hyderabad during the bail period,” Rao’s brother-in-law N Venugopal, who is also a poet and writer, said.While observing that it was a "genuine and fit" case for granting relief to Rao in view of his advanced age and inadequate facilities in the jail, the high court refused to allow him to go to Hyderabad, saying “sending him back to where he belongs is fraught with the risk of his presence being used by those allegedly associated with him”.Rao was also directed not to issue any statements or speak to the media, both print and electronic.Rao’s wife Hemalatha, who is waging a legal battle in the court against his arrest, is presently in Mumbai, awaiting his release. “The court has asked him to furnish a bail bond of ₹50,000 and we are in the process of completing those formalities. We are expecting that he would be released by Tuesday,” Venugopal said.Brother-in-law Venugopal said Rao has no relatives in Mumbai who could take care of him during the bail period.“It is a tricky situation for the family. He cannot afford to take a house on rent to stay there. And given the sensitivity of the case, we are not sure he would even get a house on rent in Mumbai. Since he doesn’t require hospitalisation, he cannot be kept in hospital either,” Venugopal said.Rao’s three daughters – Sahaja, Anala and Pavana – have their own families in Hyderabad. “They have to go to Mumbai in turns to take care of their father. In the given situation due to the coronavirus pandemic, it is risky for them, too,” he said.According to Venugopal, there are two more cases pending against Rao – one in connection with a 2005 Maoist attack case in Pavagada in Kolar district of Karnataka and another case of trucks burning at Gadchiroli in Maharashtra in 2016. The revolutionary poet has been facing trial in connection with the Bhima Koregaon violence case of January 1, 2018, and also on charges of being part of a plot hatched by Maoists to assassinate Prime Minister Narendra Modi.He was arrested by the Pune police first in August 2018 and after he was released on bail following a court order, he was rearrested in November 2018. He was first lodged in the Yeravada Jail in Pune and later moved to Taloja jail in Mumbai.In May, Rao tested positive for Covid-19 and was shifted to JJ Hospital from Taloja jail.In July last year, his family members issued a statement saying Rao’s health condition deteriorated and he appeared to be in a state of delirium and hallucination. “He was talking about the funeral of his father and mother, the events that happened seven decades and four decades ago respectively,” Hemalatha said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/where-in-mumbai-varavara-rao-s-family-as-court-declines-hyderabad-return-101613996269475.html
22-02-2021||India||Odisha: 22 years after gangrape case, last of the 3 accused arrested from Maharashtra||The last of the three accused in the gangrape case, that led to the exit of then Congress chief minister JB Patnaik, was finally arrested by Odisha police from Maharashtra’s Ambi Valley, 22 years after the crime.Bhubaneswar-Cuttack police commissioner Sudhansu Sarangi said Bibekananda Biswal alias Biban, one of the three accused in the 1999 gangrape, was arrested from Amby Valley in Lonavala where he was working as a plumber using the pseudonym of Jalandhar Swain.“On a tip-off, we started Operation Silent Viper to nab him and tracked him down with the help of Pune Rural Police,” said Sarangi, adding that case witnesses identified Biswal.Meanwhile, on hearing of Biswal’s arrest, the survivor has demanded that he be hanged. “The CBI sat over the case and never bothered to give me justice. I am as good as dead, living with the pain and trauma. Over the years, multiple attempts have been made to eliminate me. My house was vandalised. I was not allowed to stay in my own house. I am forced to live with my mother,” she said, alleging that Biswal managed to evade arrest in the first place due to the patronage of Congress politicians.Also Read | Hathras gangrape case: CBI files status report before high courtBiswal and two others, Padia Sahoo and Dhirendra Mohanty, had allegedly gang-raped the woman, then a 29-year-old homemaker who had kicked up a controversy by accusing the then advocate general of Odisha, Indrajit Ray, of molesting her in his chamber. She had earlier accused her Indian Forest Service husband of dowry torture and had reportedly gone Ray’s chambers to discuss her case where he allegedly tried to sexually assault her. While the survivor dragged Ray to court, chief minister Patnaik too got drawn into the controversy for allegedly tried to bail Ray, a family friend. A CBI court in Bhubaneswar later sentenced Ray to three years of imprisonment along with a fine of ₹5,000.Then, on January 9, 1999, the survivor was travelling from Cuttack to Bhubaneswar with one of her friends when Biswal, Mohanty and Sahoo allegedly intercepted their vehicle at a desolate place where they allegedly gang-raped her at gunpoint in front of her journalist friend.The survivor then lodged a First Information Report (FIR) in which she accused Patnaik of engineering the assault to intimidate her into withdrawing the case against Ray. As the gangrape led to an unprecedented public outrage in Odisha triggering statewide protests, an embarrassed Congress chief Sonia Gandhi asked Patnaik to resign.Meanwhile, two of the accused were arrested soon after the survivor’s FIR. The Orissa high court then ordered the Central Bureau of Investigation to probe the case and a charge sheet was filed. In a judgment in April 2002, a designated CBI court in Bhubaneswar sentenced Sahoo and Mohanty to life imprisonment and a fine of ₹5,000 each. In 2010, the Orissa high court upheld the verdict. Sahoo died last year while serving his sentence.Police commissioner Sarangi said Biswal had almost managed to evade the police by getting an Aadhaar card and voter identity card in his new name. In his Aadhaar card, however, he had given his village name as Naranpur. “He used to send money to his family. He was asking his family to get a death certificate so that Biswal can be shown as dead in police record. We have informed the CBI about his arrest and are waiting to hand him over,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-22-years-after-gangrape-case-last-of-the-3-accused-arrested-from-maharashtra-101613995641061.html
22-02-2021||India||Tamil Nadu steps up vigil along border as Covid-19 cases surge in Kerala||With neighbouring Kerala and four other states in the country witnessing a surge in daily Coronavirus cases, the Tamil Nadu government on Monday said surveillance in districts bordering Kerala has been intensified and it has been made mandatory for all returnees by flight to compulsorily undergo RT-PCR test.The state health department continues to aggressively test for the virus and is involved in tracing the contacts, as it is determined to further bring down the cases, Health Secretary Dr J Radhakrishnan said.Expressing concern over non-compliance by people, including those who gather for political rallies, he appealed to the people not to lower the guard as five states in India have recorded an increase in cases."Wearing of masks and maintaining social distancing should strictly be followed. It was noticed during certain political meetings that the cadres did not wear face masks or follow social distancing. Such an offhand attitude could lead to unpleasant consequences," he said and pointed out to an incident in Amaravathy district in Maharashtra where a family has been infected by the virus.Maharashtra, Punjab, Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh, apart from Kerala have recorded a surge in daily new cases of Covid-19.The Union Health Ministry had said both Kerala and Maharashtra cumulatively accounted for over 74 per cent of India's total active cases."Tamil Nadu has a low positivity rate of 0.9 per cent per 100 persons and a majority of those who get admitted early with Coronavirus symptoms are treated and discharged. I appeal to the people not to delay if they have Coronavirus symptoms but undergo test and treatment accordingly." "Late arrival invariably leads to problems," the health secretary told reporters here after inaugurating three dialysis rpt dialysis reverse osmosis (RO) plants at the Tamil Nadu government multi-super speciality Hospital, here, that has been sponsored by the RCC Platinum Trust,a non-profit organisation.When his attention was drawn to the non-compliance to face masks and social distancing at political rallies, he said rules were the same for all people who gather in public places."We have instructed health officials to mandate the wearing of face masks and maintain social distancing before granting permission for meetings besides resort to random testing at such meetings," Radhakrishnan said.On the preventive measures, he said apart from surveillance camps, thermal screening will be carried out in the border districts and cluster testing will be done in Chennai, Coimbatore and Chengalpattu districts.All the passengers arriving by flight should have RT-PCR negative certificates."Passengers from the UK, Brazil and South Africa will be subjected to TR-PCR test upon arrival," he said.About 36 direct returnees from the UK and their 26 contacts, who tested positive, were treated and discharged. And 10 among the 11 passengers with new virus strain from the UK too were treated and discharged, he said.Further, the district health officials have been told to be extra cautious owing to the reporting of dengue cases in few southern districts and also many from Tirunelveli district had Mumbai connection, the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-steps-up-vigil-along-border-as-covid-19-cases-surge-in-kerala-101613993738213.html
22-02-2021||India||Bihar police bust Maoist gun factory in Munger, probe supply links||The Bihar police said on Monday that they have smashed a mini-gun factory run by Maoists in the dense forest and hilltop of Rishikund Bhelwa in Munger district.Bihar’s Special Task Force (STF) and local police in Munger were involved in the operation.Munger’s superintendent of police M S Dhillon said huge quantities of firearms and equipment were seized from the mini gun factory in an area under Shampur police outpost. Police also arrested a gun runner from Bakahrapur village under Muffasil police station area.“Police seized 13 pistols of 7.65 mm bore, 17 half-finished pistols, 28 magazines, eight live cartridges, two cell phones, seven barrels, 18 base machines, drilling machines, spring wires used in triggers, about two dozen razors, screwdrivers, hacksaw blades and steel plates from the mini gun factory,” the SP said.An STF official said many suspected Maoists managed to escape from the gun factory carrying complete firearms. However, one of the skilled workers engaged in manufacturing the firearms identified as Akhilesh Singh alias Karu Singh was arrested from the spot.The STF claimed that during interrogation the arrested person confessed his involvement in manufacturing firearms under the direct supervision of the Maoists. Police will also probe if the weapons made in the gun factory were being supplied to Maoists in other districts or states.In another raid, police arrested one Mohammad Haider from Bakharpur village and seized four firearms, eight magazines and 20 live cartridges from his possession. Police said he is the carrier of an arms smuggling gang.In Khagaria which borders Munger, the STF nabbed a member of an interstate gang of arms smuggler and seized four country made pistols, two cell phones and ₹520 cash from his possession. Police said that the arrested person was identified as Abusidhki Pyik Mulla, a resident of South 24 Pargana in West Bengal. Police lodged a case against him with Mansi police station area of Khagaria.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-police-bust-maoist-gun-factory-in-munger-probe-supply-links-101613994592364.html
22-02-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Abhishek Banerjee's sister-in-law questioned by CBI today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Abhishek Banerjee's sister-in-law questioned by CBI today, wife's turn tomorrowThe Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Monday questioned the sister-in-law of Trinamool Congress (TMC) leader Abhishek Banerjee in Kolkata in connection with a coal pilferage case. Read more‘Another lockdown unaffordable’: Maharashtra minister Tope urges people to follow Covid-19 normsMaharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope, who tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on February 18, said on Monday another lockdown will be dangerous for the state and appealed to the people to follow the Covid-19 safety protocols. Read moreToolkit case: Delhi Police seek another 5-day custody of Disha RaviThe Delhi Police on Monday sought another five-day custody of climate activist Disha Ravi, who was arrested in connection with an online toolkit which the police claimed was created by her in support of farmers protesting against Centre's farm laws. Read moreMP, Chattisgarh witness spike in daily cases of Covid-19Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh have been reporting a surge in their daily cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), even as the country’s active caseload has seen an uptick over the past few days. Read moreShilpa Shetty lends glimmering appeal in a bold shoulder gown and we are smittenMaking us root for her glamorous vibes as we enter a new week, Shilpa Shetty Kundra lent a glimmering appeal as she flooded the Internet with pictures of her in a bold shoulder gown. Read moreXiaomi launches Mi Neckband Bluetooth Earphone Pro, Mi Portable Bluetooth Speaker (16W) in IndiaAs rumoured before, Xiaomi today unveiled two new audio products in India - Mi Neckband Bluetooth Earphone Pro and Mi Portable Bluetooth Speaker (16W). Read moreBigg Boss 14: Rakhi Sawant says husband Ritesh married her after goon threatened to kidnap her at gunpointBigg Boss 14 contestant Rakhi Sawant has said that her husband, Ritesh, married her under unusual circumstances, after some goon tried to kidnap her 'at gunpoint. Read moreMan caught on camera spitting on rotis at wedding, arrested by Meerut PoliceA disgusting incident was caught on camera at a wedding feast in Meerut. A video that's gone viral shows a man spitting on rotis before putting them inside the tandoor. Read moreWatch: First high dam on Yamuna raises environmental concerns||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-abhishek-banerjee-s-sister-in-law-questioned-by-cbi-today-wife-s-turn-tomorrow-and-all-the-latest-news-101613990714224.html
22-02-2021||India||India extends $100 mn line of credit for defence equipment to Mauritius||India and Mauritius on Monday signed a free trade agreement that will make the African island nation a hub for Indian investments in the region, even as New Delhi extended a $100-million line of credit to fund purchases of defence equipment. Besides the comprehensive economic cooperation and partnership agreement (CECPA), the two countries signed six other pacts, including two for leasing a Dornier aircraft and a Dhruv advanced light helicopter for monitoring the exclusive economic zone of Mauritius. The agreements were announced following visiting external affairs minister S Jaishankar’s meetings with Prime Minister Pravind Jugnauth and foreign minister Alan Ganoo. Jaishankar handed over 100,000 doses of Covid-19 vaccines commercially procured by Mauritius, which had received another 100,000 doses as a grant last month. The CECPA, signed by India’s commerce secretary Anup Wadhawan and Mauritius foreign secretary Haymandoyal Dillum, is India’s first free trade agreement with any African country, Jaishankar and Jugnauth told a media interaction in Port Louis. Also Read | Jaishankar arrives in Mauritius on last leg of 2-nation tourThe agreement will provide concessional access to 310 export items from India, including agricultural products, textiles, base metals and chemicals, while Mauritius will get preferential market access for 615 products, including frozen fish, fresh fruits, beer, alcoholic drinks, and medical and surgical equipment. The agreement is expected to open up new market opportunities for both sides and provide a framework to explore opportunities on the African continent. Describing Mauritius as a “gateway between India and Africa”, Jugnauth said: “This landmark agreement is far-reaching and should unleash new and expanded opportunities in trade in goods and services, investment, economic cooperation and technical assistance.” Jaishankar said the CECPA will “provide a timely boost for the revival of our post-Covid economies and enable Indian investors to use Mauritius as a launch-pad for business expansion in Africa”. The goods given preferential access will allow Mauritius to tap into segments of the Indian market that currently account for global imports of $15 billion, he said. For instance, Mauritius will get preferential access for the export of 40,000 tonnes of sugar in an early timeframe and 7.5 million pieces of apparel. Officials said the $100-million line of credit for defence equipment will pave the way for Mauritius procuring a new coastal surveillance system and other hardware. India will lease the Dornier aircraft and Dhruv helicopter “gratis for two years” to shore up Mauritius’ “capabilities to control and monitor its extensive maritime domain”, Jaishankar said. Jugnauth also said Mauritius values its defence cooperation with India, including in capacity-building, coastal surveillance, and deterrence to piracy and illegal fishing. Three other agreements covered the setting up of a renal transplant unit at the Jawaharlal Nehru Hospital with Indian support, creating an 8-MW solar farm to help Mauritius achieve its target of generating 35% of total energy from renewable sources by 2025, and cooperation on consumer protection. Jugnauth said Mauritius and India have a “unique, trusted and enduring relationship” and a “common interest in an open, prosperous and secure Indian Ocean”. Both countries also have converging views on strengthening the rules-based world order and global institutions, including those of the UN, he said. He said Mauritius is looking for India’s assistance in procuring another 200,000 doses of Covid-19 vaccines in the coming months Jugnauth said he also discussed the issue of Chagos Islands, which includes the US military base at Diego Garcia, with Jaishankar. The two sides reviewed the “decolonisation process”, the completion of which “will have no implications for the maintenance of the defence operations in Diego Garcia”, he said. Jaishankar said he assured Jugnauth of “India’s steadfast, principled support” on the issue of the Chagos archipelago as “has been demonstrated in the past”. In 2019, the International Court of Justice ruled that the UK should end its control of the Chagos archipelago. The UK has said it doesn’t recognise Mauritius’ claim to sovereignty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-extends-100-mn-line-of-credit-for-defence-equipment-to-mauritius-101613992341175.html
22-02-2021||India||Uttarakhand Mein Bhi Kejriwal campaign a success; over 100,000 joined us: AAP||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP)’s “Uttarakhand Mein Bhi Kejriwal” membership campaign in the state has succeeded in getting 103,000 new members since its launch on February 1, said senior state AAP leader Ravindra Jugran on Monday in Dehradun. Under the programme, which was launched by senior AAP leader and deputy chief minister of Delhi Manish Sisodia, the party sent out 70 vans, one each in the assembly constituencies of the state, to educate the public about party policies with the help of videos, all in preparation for the 2022 state assembly elections which the party plans to contest. The party had set a target to rope in at least 100,000 people in 45 days, asking people interested in joining the party to give a missed call on a given number. About the number of missed calls they received, Jugran said, “The party had targeted to touch the figure of 100,000 in 45 days of the campaign but we achieved it in 21 days only, which goes to show the support we are getting.”Also Read| Uttarakhand CM requests Union govt for glacier research centre in state“We have received a total of 103,000 missed calls on our number, 7669007669, for membership across the state. Most people, 17,366, joined us from US Nagar district followed by 16,228 form Dehradun, 14,838 from Haridwar, and 10,569 from Nainital. Among some other districts that our campaign got a good response in are Almora with 8,850 members, Pauri Garhwal with 9,653 members and Tehri Garhwal with 8,859 members,” said Jugran. He said the party had also set a target of holding 6,500 public meetings of which “2,540 have been held”. Upbeat about the response, Jugran said, “We are sure the number of new members would increase manifold as the people want AAP to come to power in 2022.” However, the ruling BJP and main Opposition Congress sought to underplay AAP’s presence in the state. BJP state media in-charge Manveer Chauhan said, “AAP has no presence in the state as it is a party which spread lies and gave false hopes to people like it did in Delhi. They are doing the same in Uttarakhand, but people here will not fall in that trap.” Congress state spokesperson Garima Dasauni said, “AAP is claiming it will come to power in 2022 but it doesn’t have enough leaders to contest from all the 70 seats.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-mein-bhi-kejriwal-campaign-a-success-over-100-000-joined-us-aap-101613992220915.html
22-02-2021||India||PM Modi inaugurates several railway projects in West Bengal||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday said that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will build a Bengal where religion and ability will be respected, and where everyone can experience development."BJP will work for a Sonar Bangla that will strengthen the history and culture of Bengal. We will build a Bengal where religion and ability will be respected. We will build a Bengal where everyone is developed," PM Modi said in his address.The Prime Minister was addressing a public meeting in West Bengal's Hoogly. He also inaugurated several railway projects in the state. PM Modi said that the formation of a BJP government in West Bengal isn't merely for a change in power, but for 'Ashol Poriborton'."Our youth is living with the hope of this 'Ashol Poriborton' (real transformation), and thus, we need to form the BJP government in Bengal," PM Modi said. Accusing chief minister Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress government of siphoning funds provided for cyclone relief, PM Modi said, "The Central government has provided ₹1,700 crore for relief work after Amphan to the TMC government in Bengal. The state government has only spent ₹609 crore. The leftover ₹1,100 crore has been siphoned off by TMC."He also accused the chief minister of stalling the availability of free healthcare treatment."Lakhs of needy people in Bengal have not been able to receive free treatment worth ₹5 lakh under Ayushman Bharat. This is the kind of hurdle Mamata Ji's government has formed between the people of Bengal and development," the PM said. Taking a swipe at Mamata-led government, "People who talk about maa-maati-manush have become a wall in front of the development of Bengal. The money deposited by the central government for farmers and the poor goes directly into these people's bank account. Hailing Bengali leaders who participated in India's freedom struggle, PM said, "This entire region including Chandannagar is a major part of India's independence struggle, its culture and its science. Maharshi Aurobindo, Motilal Roy, Rashbehari Bose, Bipin Bihari Ganguly, Kanailal Dutta and several more are associated with this land."Plugging the development plank, PM said, "Better infrastructure, agriculture, industry, tourism - employment opportunities need a lot right reforms. Infrastructure associated with connectivity is the priority of our govt. In the last few years, we've focused on highway, waterway, airway and e-way."PM Modi is in Bengal where he will inaugurate the extension of Metro Railway from Noapara to Dakshineswar, and flag off the first service on this stretch. This 4.1 km extension has been constructed at a cost of ₹464 crore, fully funded by the central government. It will decongest road traffic and improve urban mobility. This extension will ease out access to the two world-famous Kali temples at Kalighat and Dakshineswar, for lakhs of tourists and devotees.The two newly built stations namely Baranagar and Dakshineswar have modern passenger amenities and are also aesthetically designed and decorated with murals, photographs, sculptures and idols.Prime Minister Modi will also inaugurate the third line between Kalaikunda and Jhargram over a stretch of 30 km of the 132 km long Kharagpur-Adityapur Third Line Project of South Eastern Railway, which was sanctioned with an estimated cost of ₹1,312 crore.He will dedicate to the nation the doubling of Azimganj to Khargraghat Road section, which is a part of the Howrah-Bandel-Azimganj section of Eastern Railway, which has been laid at a project cost of about ₹240 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-in-hoogly-will-build-a-bengal-where-religion-is-respected-101613991443469.html
22-02-2021||India||NIA files chargesheet against 2 Lashkar operatives in conspiracy case||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Monday files a supplementary chargesheet before a special court in Bengaluru against two members of terrorist organization Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) in connection with a conspiracy case.The two people named by the NIA in its chargesheet are Dr Sabeel Ahmed, resident Bengaluru, and Asadullah Khan, who belongs to Hyderabad. They have been booked under section 120B of the Indian penal code (IPC) and sections 18, 38 and 39 of the UAPA Act.According to NIA, the case was initially registered by the police in Bengaluru on August 29, 2012, and pertains to conspiracy hatched by members of LeT and Harkat-ul-Jehad-e-Islami (HuJI) to commit subversive activities and wage war against India.These people had procured illegal arms and ammunition for targeted killings of important personalities of Hindu community in Bangalore and Hubli in Karnataka; Nanded in Maharashtra and in Hyderabad to disturb the communal harmony and strike terror in society, the agency said.It was taken over by the NIA on November 25, 2012. The agency chargesheeted 17 people in the case after investigation.The NIA said that the two people named today were involved in criminal conspiracy along with other accused in supporting and furthering the cause of the terror groups in Damam and Riyadh, Saudi Arabia. They had also actively participated in meetings in which activities like targeted killings of important personalities of Hindu community were planned, it further added.The NIA special court had convicted 13 accused people in 2016; they were sentenced to five-year imprisonment.While trial is continuing againstthree accused, further investigation against six absconding accused persons continues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-files-chargesheet-against-2-lashkar-operatives-in-conspiracy-case-101613991472984.html
22-02-2021||India||5 killed, 5 others injured as truck rams auto rickshaw in Bihar’s Katihar||Five people were killed and five others including two teenagers were seriously injured in Bihar’s Katihar district in the early hours of Monday when a truck hit an auto rickshaw in which they were returning from a marriage ceremony, police said.The accident took place on national highway 31 near Khaira Bahiyarpur. The deceased have been identified as the members of a band party.The victims were returning from Maranga in Purnia district to Kursela when the accident took place. The five victims who died on the spot were identified as Arjun Mochi (50), Kishor Paswan (45), Dharmendra Kumar Mandal (50), Sushil Kumar Mochi (30), and Chhote Lal Ram (42).The injured have been identified as Santosh Kumar (25), Mithhu Kumar, (17), Chintu Kumar (16), Shri Mochi (60) and Siya Ram Mandal (32). They all are residents of Bhangaha village under Falka police station of Katihar.A police team sent the injured to a nearby health centre.“The injured have been admitted at Sameli PHC. The bodies of the deceased have been sent to Katihar district hospital for postmortem,” deputy superintendent of police Sunil Kumar Roy said.Police have seized the truck but the driver escaped from the scene.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-killed-5-others-injured-as-truck-rams-auto-rickshaw-in-bihar-s-katihar-101613990474276.html
22-02-2021||India||'Game over for BJP govt': Akhilesh Yadav on UP budget||Hours after Yogi Adityanath-led Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government presented the Uttar Pradesh budget for the coming financial year on Monday, Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav said it did not meet the expectations of the poor and the farmers."Poor and farmers were expecting big relief, but their expectations were not met. Now, the government has no time left and people of the state have seen what they did in the past four years," the SP leader said. "Khel khatam, paisa hajam (game over, money usurped)," he added.Also Read: UP govt doles out thousands of crores on expressways in budget 2021The fifth budget of the BJP government, presented by UP finance minister Suresh Kumar Khanna, was worth ₹5.5 lakh crore. With the Assembly election in the state a year away, CM Adityanath's budget included new schemes of ₹27,598 crore.  "This was the fifth and last budget of the government led by chief minister Yogi Adityanath and his game is over now," said Yadav.Also Read: Rs200 cr for Ayodhya and Varanasi, cheaper loans for farmers in UP Budget | Key pointsMeanwhile, in a post-budget conference, CM Adityanath congratulated the officials responsible for bringing out the budget. "This is a budget which intends to make Uttar Pradesh self-reliant and provide employment to all categories of people. I congratulate the finance minister and other officials for the budget," he said.The budget session of Uttar Pradesh Assembly began on February 18 and will continue till March 10. This budget was the first paperless one to be presented in any state and all lawmakers were given iPads to view the budget highlights which were also displayed on two screens put up in the Assembly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/game-over-for-bjp-govt-akhilesh-yadav-on-up-budget-101613990500227.html
22-02-2021||India||Abhishek Banerjee's sister-in-law questioned by CBI today, wife's turn tomorrow||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Monday questioned the sister-in-law of Trinamool Congress (TMC) leader Abhishek Banerjee in Kolkata in connection with a coal pilferage case.The questioning lasted for three hours after which the CBI team left Menaka Gambhir's residence in Kolkata. Two women officers were also part of the CBI team.Gambhir is the sister of Banerjee's wife Rujira who told the CBI earlier in the day that she will be available for examination in connection with the case at her residence in Harish Mukherjee Road between 11 am to 3 pm on Tuesday.Abhishek, the Trinamool Congress's Diamond Harbour MP, is the nephew of chief minister Mamata Banerjee.The CBI had, on Sunday, visited his residence to serve a notice to his wife for questioning in connection with the case.The CBI had registered an FIR in November last year against the alleged kingpin of the pilferage racket Manjhi alias Lala, Eastern Coalfield Ltd General Managers Amit Kumar Dhar (of then Kunustoria area now Pandaveswar area) and Jayesh Chandra Rai (Kajor area), besides ECL Chief of Security Tanmay Das, Area Security Inspector, Kunustoria Dhananjay Rai and SSI and security in-charge Kajor area Debashish Mukherjee.The CBI probe has added fuel to the political tussle between TMC and BJP prior to the polls.TMC is worried after CBI summoned Rujira Banerjee (Abhishek Banerjee's wife). West Bengal BJP chief Dilip Ghosh said, "They said 'We aren't afraid of rats'. It can't be that you do wrong and stand by it. If you haven't done anything wrong, go and answer. CBI sending notice means something is wrong."The questioning took place on a day when Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to visit West Bengal for a few hours to bolster the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) campaign in the poll-bound state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/abhishek-banerjee-s-sister-in-law-questioned-by-cbi-today-wife-s-turn-tomorrow-101613989867897.html
22-02-2021||India||‘Another lockdown unaffordable’: Maharashtra minister Tope urges people to follow Covid-19 norms||Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope, who tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on February 18, said on Monday another lockdown will be dangerous for the state and appealed to the people to follow the Covid-19 safety protocols.Tope, in a letter written in Marathi, asked people to adhere to Covid appropriate behaviour to prevent the imposition of another lockdown in the state. "Our state is known for its understanding, sensitive and cooperative people. We have seen how people have cooperated with patience during the lockdown. However, another lockdown will be unaffordable. Avoiding a lockdown is now in your hands. Therefore, it is my appeal to strictly follow masking, sanitisation and safe physical distancing to avoid lockdown," Tope said in the letter written from a hospital.pic.twitter.com/ebJLzisHfqAlso Read | 36 per cent rise in active Covid-19 cases in Mumbai since February 8: BMCTope is being treated at Fortis Hospital in Mulund under the supervision of Dr Rahul Pandit, who is also a member of the state’s Covid-19 task force. “I have tested positive for Covid-19. Though I am doing fine, I’ll follow the advice of the doctors. With all your blessings, I will defeat Covid-19 and be at your services soon. Those who have come in contact with me in the past few days must take all the precautions and get tested if they develop any symptoms,” Tope had said in a tweet on Thursday night.Maharashtra’s water resources minister Jayant Patil, food and drugs administration minister Dr Rajendra Shingne and minister of state for water resources Bachchu Kadu have also tested positive for Covid-19.The health minister’s appeal came a day after Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday evening had also urged the citizens to follow the rules to prevent any restrictions. He said if necessary strictest restrictions will be imposed in the state. “The lacklustre approach by people has cost us dear. Nobody likes a lockdown but we will have to follow some restrictions,” Thackeray said during his virtual address.Also Read | Parents of bride, groom booked in Mumbai for violating Covid-19 normsThackeray urged the citizens to be more responsible and said an 'I am responsible drive' should be implemented in the state for self-discipline.Maharashtra, which is among the top contributors to the coronavirus caseload of the country, on Sunday had reported 6,971 new coronavirus cases taking the total tally of the state over 2.1 million.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/another-lockdown-unaffordable-maharashtra-minister-tope-urges-people-to-follow-covid-19-norms-101613985710477.html
22-02-2021||India||Charles de Gaulle carrier to exercise with Vikramaditya in Indian Ocean in April||India and France will cement its defence cooperation in April when Charles de Gaulle aircraft carrier strike force will exercise with INS Vikramaditya in two phases in Arabian Sea and Indian Ocean. The dates of the exercises are being scheduled between the two navies.The nuclear powered French carrier force, comprising two frigates and on support ship, is on mission “Clemenceau 21”, which is involved in the fight against terrorism for several months in Mediterranean, Indian Ocean and Arabian Sea/ Persian Gulf.According to people aware of the developments in the Navy , the Western Fleet with its newly appointed commander Rear Admiral Ajay Kochhar will be conducting advanced exercises with the French carrier task force. While Charles de Gaulle is a 42,500 tonne aircraft carrier with Rafale M fighter on board, INS Vikramaditya is a conventionally powered aircraft carrier with displacement of 44,500 tonnes and has MiG-29K fighters on board.The month of April will see renewed engagement with France with Foreign Minister Jean Yves Le Drian arriving in India to deliver a lecture at a think-tank and pursue political dialogue with India. Both India and France have convergence over freedom of navigation in Indo-Pacific with Paris appointing a special envoy for the region.To add to this will be arrival of seven Rafale fighters from France between April 19-23, after which the first squadron of the French omni-role fighter will be completed at Ambala air base. The remaining 18 fighters will be deployed at Hashimara in the eastern sector to cover the strategic Siliguri corridor.India and France have cemented their bilateral relationship with convergence in UN Security Council and building up Indian Air Force’s capacity through purchase of medium transport aircraft and multi-role transport tankers. The two countries have also joined hands in development of air independent propulsion for conventional submarines for future Indian submersible ships.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/charles-de-gaulle-carrier-to-exercise-with-vikramaditya-in-indian-ocean-in-april-101613988988000.html
22-02-2021||India||Toolkit case: Disha Ravi sent to fresh 1-day police custody||A Delhi court on Monday sent climate activist Disha Ravi to one-day police custody. She was arrested by the police in connection with an online toolkit which the cops claimed was created by her in support of farmers protesting against Centre's farm laws.The police had asked for a fresh five-day custody of Ravi.Ravi was presented in court after her three-day judicial custody ended. The 22-year-old was arrested on February 13 and initially sent to five-day police custody.The police said that they require Ravi's custody to question her along with two other accused on the case - activists Nikita Jacob and Shantanu Muluk. Appearing on behalf of police, public prosecutor Vikas Singh said that the present request for police custody is not a punishment, but rather would be helpful to Ravi because she is shifting the blame on the other two accused.Ravi's lawyer Siddharth Agarwal opposed police's demand saying she has already been questioned by the police and facts conveyed in the earlier remand application."The police have a right to interrogate the accused even in the jail. Why would you require to take her in police custody?" asked Agarwal. He also pointed out that an order on her bail plea is expected on Tuesday.While Delhi Police had arrested Bengaluru-based Ravi, Jacob and Muluk were granted pre-arrest bail by a court.Ravi's bail plea is already pending before Additional Sessions Judge Dharmender Rana, who is expected to pass an order on Tuesday. During the last hearing on Saturday, the judge posed some scathing questions to the police, asking it if it was only acting on "surmises, inferences, and conjectures" and questioned how the toolkit was connected to the violence during the farmers' march.The police had claimed that Ravi was part of an international plan to instigate violence in India and had deleted "evidence" like emails.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/toolkit-case-delhi-police-seek-another-5-day-custody-of-disha-ravi-101613988742920.html
22-02-2021||India||MP, Chattisgarh witness spike in daily cases of Covid-19||Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh have been reporting a surge in their daily cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), even as the country’s active caseload has seen an uptick over the past few days, according to the government.Data from the Union ministry of health and family welfare showed that Madhya Pradesh added 57 new Covid-19 cases and witnessed four deaths in the last 24 hours. The number of active cases in the state now stands at 2,051. Chattisgarh added 10 more cases of the coronavirus disease, taking its tally of active cases to 3112. There have been five fatalities between Sunday and Monday and the death toll currently stands at 3800. Chattisgarh had witnessed the highest single-day rise in early January when it registered 1050 cases in a span of 24 hours, breaching the 1000 daily case mark for the first time since the pandemic started.In a controversial move, Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan had decided to close all Covid care centres in the state, except those in Bhopal, from January 1 in view of the low occupancy of beds. After being criticised by the opposition for the closure, the chief minister had assured that the centres will be reopened when the need arises.India has been witnessing a rise in the active coronavirus caseload over the past few days and the government has said that more than 74 per cent of cases in the country are from Kerala and Maharashtra. Punjab and Jammu and Kashmir too are witnessing a surge in daily new cases, the government said. The Centre on Sunday wrote to states and Union Territories asking them to ramp up RT-PCR testing, enforce stringent Covid-19 preventive measures, monitor mutant strains, and follow stringent containment rules in selected districts.India’s Covid-19 tally hit the grim milestone on Monday by surpassing the 11 million mark, according to the data released by the health ministry. According to its data, 14,199 new Covid-19 cases and 83 related deaths were reported in the last 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-chattisgarh-witness-spike-in-daily-cases-of-covid19-101613988461354.html
22-02-2021||India||MP, Karnataka before Puducherry: How Congress lost govts in 2 other states||V Narayanasamy resigned as Puducherry chief minister on Monday after losing a trust vote on the floor of the House. The collapse of the Congress-led government means that since 2019, the party has lost power in two states and a Union territory, without the completion of the full term of the respective governments. Before Puducherry, it had lost power in Madhya Pradesh (March 2020) and Karnataka (July 2019).Also Read | Narayanasamy loses trust vote, Congress govt falls in Puducherry: What next?The Congress could have lost another government, in Rajasthan last July, but managed to hold on. Here’s what happened in Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan, before Puducherry:Karnataka: The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) emerged as the single-largest party in assembly elections in May 2018, ahead of the ruling Congress and the Janata Dal (Secular). The latter two then joined hands, with HD Kumaraswamy of the JD(S) becoming the chief minister. However, the government collapsed after rebellion by more than a dozen Congress-JD(S) lawmakers in July 2019. The BJP then came to power and in December, won 12 out of 15 seats for which byelections were held, thus adding enough seats to its tally to cross the majority mark. Several of the Congress-JD(S) defectors joined the BJP and were subsequently made ministers in the BS Yediyurappa government.Also Read | Karnataka byelections: Here is why Congress lostMadhya Pradesh: The Congress ended the BJP’s 15-year-rule in the central state in the December 2018 assembly elections. Veteran leader Kamal Nath was preferred over Jyotiraditya Scindia as the chief minister. Eventually, in March last year, Scindia, aggrieved over a host of issues, joined the BJP and was made a Rajya Sabha MP. Several lawmakers loyal to Scindia also jumped ship, triggering the Kamal Nath government’s collapse and the BJP’s return to power after just 15 months. The BJP subsequently won 19 out of 28 assembly seats for which bypolls were held in November, and several defectors were inducted into Shivraj Singh Chouhan’s government.Also Read | BJP regains lost bastion in Gwalior-Chambal belt in MP bypollsRajasthan: The western state was one among three where the Congress defeated the BJP in late 2018. Here, too, just like MP, former CM Ashok Gehlot was appointed to the top post instead of Sachin Pilot, who was made his deputy. The two never got along, and in July 2020, ‘Team Pilot’ rebelled, with rumours linking him to the BJP. However, Pilot did not join the saffron party, instead coming back to the Congress ranks after a three-member panel was formed to address various issues raised by him. The panel comprised Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, KC Venugopal and the late Ahmed Patel. Gehlot went on to win a trust vote and save his government.Also Read | Sachin Pilot falls in line after Rahul meet, settles for 3-member panel to hear his sideThe Congress was also a part of the 'Mahagathbandhan' which came to power in Bihar in late 2015. However, it was the junior partner to the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) and Janata Dal (United). The JD(U) left the alliance in July 2017 to join the BJP and form government in Bihar. The four states then contributed significantly in the BJP’s re-election at the Centre in 2019, when it won 303 seats on its own, up from 282 in 2014.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mp-karnataka-before-puducherry-how-congress-lost-govts-in-2-other-states-101613987677476.html
22-02-2021||India||Arriving passengers to be tested for Covid-19 via RT-PCR at Delhi airport||All passengers from the UK, Brazil, South Africa, all European countries and the Middle East arriving at Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International Airport will compulsorily have to undergo an RT-PCR test beginning Tuesday, 12am. However, they may need not mandatorily undergo institutional quarantine.As per the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) given by the ministry of health and family welfare dated February 17, passengers from these high-risk countries can get their tests done at the airport before proceeding for home quarantine. Transit passengers will, however, have to wait for six hours until their reports are out.The new SOP states, “All travellers from UK, Brazil and South Africa on their arrival will give their sample in the designated area and exit the airport. They will be followed up by the state Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP). The concerned state authorities/airport operators will collect and convey the test report to the traveller. If tested negative, they will remain in home quarantine for seven days and will be regularly followed up by the concerned state IDSP. These travellers shall again be tested after seven days and if found negative, released from quarantine, and continue to monitor their health for a further seven days. All those tested positive shall undergo treatment.” It adds that all other travellers from Europe and Middle East (other than those in flights originating from Brazil, South Africa and UK) who have to exit the destination airport or take a connecting flight to their final domestic destination will undergo the same protocol but will be advised to self-monitor their health for 14 days.Meanwhile, the new arrangement has increased the daily number of RT-PCR tests tenfold, according to Genestrings diagnostics that is conducting these tests at the Delhi airport.Genestrings diagnostics founder-director Dr Gauri Agarwal said this stringent approach to control the spread of the new variant of the coronavirus by making testing mandatory for travellers from identified high-risk countries will take the number of daily tests from 500-600 to 7,000+.“While our laboratory is equipped to test above 15,000 samples per day, the operations team comprising data entry operators and sample collection technicians also had to be increased tenfold to handle the large inflow of passengers from UK, Europe and Middle East. For this, a massive recruitment drive was launched immediately after the SOP was announced and at least 230 staff members was recruited overnight and trained over the next two days,” Agarwal said.She said that during the peak hours of 3-5am, there are expected to be roughly 1,200 passengers per hour who will undergo the mandatory testing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/arriving-passengers-to-be-tested-for-covid-19-via-rt-pcr-at-delhi-airport-101613988201328.html
22-02-2021||India||India to clear 45 investments from China, likely to include Great Wall, SAIC: Report||India is set to clear 45 investment proposals from China, which are likely to include those from Great Wall Motor and SAIC Motor Corp, government and industry sources told Reuters, as military tensions between the two countries ease at the disputed border.The proposals have been held up since last year after India tightened controls on Chinese investment in the country in retaliation against alleged Chinese troop incursions in the western Himalayan region. China blamed Indian troops for the standoff.About 150 investment proposals from China worth more than $2 billion were stuck in the pipeline. Companies from Japan and the U.S. routing investment through Hong Kong were also caught in the cross-fire as an inter-ministerial panel led by the interior ministry increased scrutiny of such proposals.A federal Home (Interior) Ministry spokesman did not respond to a request for comment on the proposals to be cleared.Two government sources who have seen the list said most of the 45 proposals set for early approvals are in the manufacturing sector, which is considered non-sensitive in terms of national security.The sources did not elaborate but two other government officials and two industry sources who are privy to the process said proposals from Great Wall and SAIC are likely to be on the list.Great Wall and General Motors (GM) made a joint proposal last year seeking consent for the Chinese automaker to purchase the U.S. company's car plant in India, in a deal expected to be valued at around $250-$300 million.Great Wall, which plans to invest $1 billion in India over the next few years, said earlier that establishing operations in the country is a key part of its global strategy. It had planned to start selling cars in India from this year, and was also mulling bringing in electric vehicles.Great Wall said it continues to seek relevant approvals and investment clearances."Should we be granted all relevant approvals, we will push all work forward in India, abiding by the laws and rules laid down by the Indian government," a company spokesman said.A GM spokesman added: "We continue to seek all relevant approvals to support the transaction."SAIC, which started selling cars in India in 2019 under its British brand MG Motor, has invested around $400 million of the nearly $650 million it has committed to India and would need approval to bring more investment.SAIC's India unit did not respond to an email seeking comment.The change in the Indian government's stance follows an improvement in the border situation. Troops who were in eyeball to eyeball confrontation in territory claimed by both sides have been withdrawn, the two countries announced on Sunday.The plan going forward is to split up over 150 proposed Chinese investments into three categories depending on the risk to national security, the sources said.Sectors such as automobiles, electronics, chemicals and textiles are seen as non-sensitive whereas those involving data and finance are deemed sensitive, consultants and lawyers have said.Proposals from non-sensitive sectors will be approved faster, while those seen as "sensitive" will be reviewed later, one of the government sources said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-clear-45-investments-from-china-likely-to-include-great-wall-saic-report-101613987396064.html
22-02-2021||India||IMA 'shocked' on Patanjali’s claim on Coronil, seeks health minister's response||The IMA on Monday expressed shock over the "blatant lie of WHO certification" for Patanjali's Coronil tablet, which the company claims is an evidence-based medicine to fight Covid-19, and demanded an explanation from Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan in whose presence the medicine was launched.This comes in the wake of global health body, WHO, clarifying that it has not reviewed or certified the effectiveness of any traditional medicine for the treatment of Covid-19.Yoga guru Ramdev's Patanjali Ayurved had on February 19 said that the Coronil tablet had received certification from the Ayush Ministry as a medicine supporting Covid-19 treatment as per the World Health Organization's certification scheme.However, Patanjali’s managing director Acharya Balkrishna later made a clarification about the certification through a tweet saying, "We want to clarify to avoid confusion that our WHO GMP compliant COPP certificate to Coronil is issued by DCGI, Government of India. It is clear that WHO do not approve or disapprove any drugs. WHO works for building a better, healthier future for people all over the world (sic)."In a statement issued on Monday, the Indian Medical Association (IMA) said, “Being Health Minister of the country, how justified is it to release such falsely fabricated unscientific product to people of the whole country...can you clarify the time frame, time line for the so-called clinical trial of this said anti-corona product?""The country needs an explanation from the minister. The Indian Medical Association will also write to National Medical Commission for seeking suo moto explanation for his blatant disrespect to the code of conduct of Medical Council of India,” the IMA said."Indian Medical Association is shocked to note the blatant lie of WHO certification...," it said.Haridwar-based Patanjali Ayurved had also released what it claimed was research work supporting Coronil's efficacy in Covid-19 treatment.The announcement regarding the Ayush certification for Coronil and release of a research paper calling it the "first evidence-based medicine for Covid-19 by Patanjali" was done at an event here attended by Vardhan.In a statement, Patanjali had said: "Coronil has received the Certificate of Pharmaceutical Product (CoPP) from the Ayush section of Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation as per the WHO certification scheme."However, WHO South-East Asia in a tweet said: "@WHO has not reviewed or certified the effectiveness of any traditional medicine for the treatment #Covid19."Patanjali had introduced ayurveda-based Coronil on June 23 last year, when the pandemic was at its peak. It had to face severe criticism as it lacked scientific evidence regarding its efficacy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ima-shocked-on-patanjali-s-claim-on-coronil-seeks-health-minister-s-response-101613986425907.html
22-02-2021||India||AAP takes a jab at Congress over Puducherry floor test||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Monday took a jibe at Congress after it failed to clear the floor test in the Puducherry assembly. The party, which is in power in Delhi, suggested that Congress should focus on saving its own governments, rather than saving the nation. “Congress has not got a break from saving its own governments in states where it is in power. How will it save the nation?” the AAP tweeted.The Congress-Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) coalition government could not prove its majority in the Puducherry assembly earlier on Monday after which chief minister V Narayanasamy tendered his resignation to Lieutenant Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan. The Congress leader accused the Bharatiya Janata Party and the former L-G Kiran Bedi of colluding with the parties in opposition to topple his government. “We have submitted our resignations… In the coming elections people will punish the opposition who used the three nominated MLAs (of the Bharatiya Janata Party) to topple our government,” Narayanasamy said.Meanwhile, the AAP has not only stepped up its attack on Congress but also on the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). After the Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced that his party will fight the assembly polls to be held in the next two years, the AAP has also stepped up its attacks on Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and even Gujarat.Kejriwal had said, “In next two years, AAP will be contesting elections in six states - UP, Uttarakhand, Goa, Punjab, Himachal Pradesh and Gujarat. I urge party members to strengthen the grassroots-level hold of the party across the country. The organisation has to be strengthened on a very large scale. The country is important for us and AAP is the vehicle and we need to work towards the development of the party.”The Delhi chief minister has said on February 20 that the people of Gujarat should give the AAP a chance to showcase their abilities when it comes to development. Kejriwal tweeted in Gujarati, “Give Aam Aadmi Party a chance and then take a look at Gujarat.”એક મોકો AAP ને, પછી જુઓ ગુજરાતનેOn the same day, the AAP tweeted that Uttarakhand has failed to address the issues faced by the people of the state. In a tweet, the party said, “BJP’s game is over, Congress has failed. It is time for the implementation of the Kejriwal model.”भाजपा का खत्म खेल, कांग्रेस भी रही फेल।अब उत्तराखंड का होगा 'केजरीवाल मॉडल' से मेल। pic.twitter.com/GwpR259tWmThe AAP’s sharpest attacks have also been levelled at the Uttar Pradesh government where it has criticised the Yogi Adityanath dispensation over healthcare issues and education. Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia had previously targeted the UP government regarding the state of education. In December, Sisodia conducted a debate programme titled State of Education – Kejriwal's Delhi Model versus Yogi's UP Model - at Gandhi Bhawan in Lucknow’s Kaiserbagh. During the programme, he kept an empty seat on stage waiting for UP cabinet minister Siddharth Nath Singh, news agency PTI reported.कानून व्यवस्था पहले ही दम तोड़ चुकी है अब स्वास्थ्य व्यवस्था अपनी आखरी सांसे ले रही है उत्तर प्रदेश में।राजधानी लखनऊ में जब ऐसी भयावह स्थिति है तो सोचिए अन्य जनपदों में जनता की क्या दशा होगी! pic.twitter.com/gd8WpRBvwGThe party has also made MLA Raghav Chadha AAP's Punjab co-in charge in a bid to continue its criticism of the model of governance under the leadership of CM Captain Amarinder Singh. The party which has emerged as the main opposition party in the state continues to attack Congress over several issues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aap-takes-a-jab-at-congress-over-puducherry-floor-test-101613985255337.html
22-02-2021||India||UP govt doles out thousands of crores on expressways in budget 2021||The Yogi Adityanath government in Uttar Pradesh presented its budget for the coming financial year on Monday. This was the fifth budget of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government and the first paperless one in any state.The budget was presented by UP finance minister Suresh Kumar Khanna.Special emphasis has been given on the expressways, the controlled-access highways, which have led to a increase in road travel.Khanna proposed ₹7,200 crore for Ganga Expressway, ₹870 crore for Purvanchal Expressway and ₹1,492 crore for Bundelkhand Expressway in the ₹5,50,270.78 crore budget for 2021-22. ₹750 crore have also been allocated for Gorakhpur Expressway.Apart from this, the state government also allocated ₹1,326 crore for Delhi-Meerut Rapid Rail and ₹100 crore each for constructing metro network in Gorakhpur and Varanasi."This is a budget which intends to make Uttar Pradesh aatmanirbhar (self-reliant) and provide employment to all categories of people. I congratulate the finance minister and other officials for the budget," Adityanath said in post-budget press conference.Khanna also presented a budget provision of ₹101 crore for the under-construction airport in Ayodhya which will be named Maryada Purushottam Shriram Airport.Earlier, the budget was ₹5.12 lakh crore but this year, the outlay has been increased by ₹38,000 crore.All members of the state legislature were given iPads to view the budget highlights which were also available on two big screens put up in the Assembly.The budget session of Uttar Pradesh Assembly began on February 18 with an address by Governor Anandiben Patel to a joint sitting of both houses. The session will continue till March 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-govt-doles-out-thousands-of-crores-on-expressways-in-budget-2021-101613985998850.html
22-02-2021||India||Unnao case: FIR against 8 Twitter handles for 'fake news'||An FIR has been lodged against eight Twitter handles for allegedly propagating fake news in connection with the death of two girls here last week, police said on Monday.The Twitter handles include news portal 'Mojo Story', led by senior journalist Barkha Dutt who termed the FIR a case of brazen "harassment and bullying".The case was registered at the Sadar Kotwali police station area in Unnao on Sunday against seven more Twitter accounts: Janjagran Live, Aazad Samaj Party spokesperson Suraj Kumar Boudh, Nilim Dutta, Vijay Ambedkar, Abhay Kumar Azad, Rahul Diwakar, Nawab Satpal Tanwar.The FIR has been lodged for propagating "fake and misleading news" regarding the incident, Assistant Superintendent of Police Vinod Kumar Pandey said on Monday.Reacting to the FIR, Dutt said, "We've followed journalistic principles by reporting all sides of an evolving story. To use IPC sections that are punishable with prison is pure intimidation. I am very ready to fight it and face it in court."The 'Mojo Story' editor alleged that the Unnao Police had refused to even give a copy of the FIR without which one cannot appeal for judicial intervention."Brazen Harassment and bullying," she said. "Even more suspicious is how Unnao Police has clubbed us with a bunch of politicians."Three girls, aged 16, 15 and 14, had left home to bring fodder for cattle on Wednesday night. They were found lying in an agriculture field when they did not return home.Local residents had rushed them to a hospital where two of them were declared brought dead. The third girl is presently undergoing treatment at a hospital in Kanpur, police said.The last rites of the deceased girls were performed on Friday morning amid tight security arrangements.The Unnao Police has held two people in this connection, accusing them of murder over one-sided love.On Saturday, Congress leader Udit Raj was booked for alleging propagating fake news in a tweet that the teenagers were raped and their bodies cremated against the will of their family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unnao-case-fir-against-8-twitter-handles-for-fake-news-101613984277552.html
22-02-2021||India||Parents of bride, groom booked in Mumbai for violating Covid-19 norms||Parents of a newly-wed couple have been booked by Mumbai Police after the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) lodged a complaint against them after social distancing norms were violated by more than 350 people during their children's wedding ceremony, according to news agency ANI on Monday.The first information report (FIR) was also registered against Chhedanagar Gymkhana for violating the safety protocol of the wedding ceremonies during the Covid-19 pandemic. The complaint was registered in Mumbai's Tilak Nagar police station under sections 188, 269 and 34 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), ANI reported. As per the complaint, the social distancing norms flouted on Sunday during the ceremony at Chhedanagar Gymkhana.Also Read | Schools, colleges to remain shut in Nagpur till March 7 amid Covid-19 spikeThis comes after the Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday urged people to adhere to the norms strictly or the government will be forced to impose restrictions. The government will decide in eight to 15 days if new restrictions need to be imposed, he added while addressing the people. "Should we impose another lockdown, I am asking you,” he said.Authorities will impose a lockdown in the Amravati district, which has been witnessing a spike in the number of Covid-19 cases, as high as during the peak of the pandemic, from Monday. Mumbai also has been recording a high daily number of coronavirus disease cases for the past few weeks. On Sunday, the metropolitan capital reported 921 new Covid-19 cases and six deaths, taking the tally of active cases in the city to 319,000.Also Read | Mumbai civic body cracks down on marriage halls, hotels; stringent norms likelyBMC has been urging the citizens to strictly adhere to the Covid-19 safety norms to contain the spread of the deadly virus as the chief minister comprehends that the state may be hit by the second wave of the coronavirus disease. The civic body had fined 16,154 people on Saturday for not wearing masks at public places in the city. BMC reported a collection of more than ₹32 lakh during the single-day drive. Gyms, theatres, clubs and restaurants reported the most number of fines, ANI said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parents-of-bride-groom-booked-in-mumbai-for-violating-covid-19-norms-101613979209377.html
22-02-2021||India||Goa DJ arrested for post on Maratha king Shivaji||Police booked and arrested a Goa-based DJ on Monday for an allegedly derogatory comment on Maratha warrior king Shivaji on social media. DJ Nacelis Noronha, 32, was booked after a group called Samarthan Sanghatana filed a complaint alleging that his comments had hurt the sentiments of the followers of the Maratha king and could also disrupt communal harmony in the state. Also Read | Varavara Rao, arrested in Bhima Koregaon case, gets interim bail for 6 monthsLate last week, the group was stopped by police from holding a rally as it did not have prior permission from the north Goa collector. Noronha commented on a post which broke this news. It was this post that the group complained about. He is currently in police custody and has been booked under 295(A) (hurting religious feelings) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-dj-arrested-for-post-on-maratha-king-shivaji-101613983760750.html
22-02-2021||India||Supreme Court allows Karti Chidambaram to travel abroad, tells him to deposit Rs2 crore security||The Supreme Court on Monday allowed Congress lawmaker Karti Chidambaram, who is being investigated in connection with the INX Media case, to travel abroad on the condition that he deposits ₹2 crore as security with the court in an interest-bearing account. The top court said the amount be deposited in a nationalised bank and allowed Chidambaram to travel for six months. Earlier, it had allowed him to travel to the UK, the US, France, Germany and Spain.The bench of justice Ashok Bhushan and justice RS Reddy also asked Chidambaram's lawyer Kapil Sibal to submit details of the former’s itinerary and place of stay in the foreign countries that he will visit. The details need to be given to the court before Chidambaram leaves for the visit, the top court stated. Sibal, who is also a senior Congress leader, requested the bench to allow Chidambaram to approach the trial court for seeking further permission as the trial in the INX Media case against Chidambaram is pending there. Solicitor general Tushar Mehta objected to it, saying the top court alone should hear these petitions as in the past too permission was granted in this regard by the Supreme Court. Following Mehta’s argument, Sibal remarked, "Will a member of Parliament run away?". To this the solicitor general replied saying, "In the past, there has been an instance of an MP running away." Mehta’s comment was an apparent reference to liquor baron Vijay Mallya who escaped the country while he was a member of Parliament.Chidambaram is facing several criminal cases related to the Aircel-Maxis deal and the Foreign Investment Promotion Board clearance to INX Media for receiving foreign funds of ₹305 crore when his father, P Chidambaram, was the Union finance minister. The cases are being probed by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) and the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI).The ED had earlier claimed that Karti Chidambaram had been trying to protract the investigation by "blatantly misusing" the liberty granted by the court in allowing him to travel abroad.Earlier this month, a Delhi court had permitted the CBI to investigate documents it has recently received from Swiss authorities in the INX Media case involving former finance minister P Chidambaram and others, according to news agency ANI.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-allows-karti-chidambaram-to-travel-abroad-told-to-deposit-rs2-crore-security-101613982254176.html
22-02-2021||India||Schools, colleges to remain shut in Nagpur till March 7 amid Covid-19 spike||Schools, colleges and coaching classes will remain closed till March 7 in Maharashtra’s Nagpur city amid a rise in the cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), state power minister Nitin Raut announced on Monday. Main markets will also remain shut on weekends, Raut said but added that hotels and restaurants will run with 50% capacity.“Hotels and restaurants can run at 50% capacity and marriage halls will be closed after February 25 till March 7,” Raut, who is also the guardian minister of the city, said.On Sunday, Covid-19 cases in Nagpur rose by 626 to reach 143,133 and eight deaths and 455 recoveries were also reported. The death toll in the district stands at 4,275 and the recovery count stands at 132,861, leaving it with an active caseload of 5,997.Follow all the coronavirus updates hereAccording to the state government, Nagpur, Pune, Nasik, Wardha, Yavatmal, Amravati, Akola and Buldhana have reported an average spike of 8% in the new cases of coronavirus in the last week. While Wardha and Yavatmal already have lockdown and curfew in place, new curbs were announced for other districts of the state on Monday.Amravati district in the Vidarbha region, one of the worst Covid-19 hit areas in the state, will be under a week-long lockdown from 8pm on Monday till March 1. All shops, except those dealing in essential commodities, will remain shut during the lockdown period.District authorities in Pune have also decided to impose a night curfew from 11pm to 6am. Schools, colleges, and other educational institutions in Pune have also been shut till February 28.Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday warned of imposing a strict lockdown in the state if the Covid-19 situation deteriorates further. “If the (Covid-19) situation deteriorates, then we have to impose lockdown. Those who want lockdown can roam around without a mask while those who don’t want it must wear a mask and follow all the rules,” Thackeray said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/schools-colleges-to-remain-shut-in-nagpur-till-march-7-amid-covid-19-spike-101613980477939.html
22-02-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi takes a jibe at PM Modi for ridiculing MGNREGA||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday criticised Prime Minister Narendra Modi for ridiculing the UPA's Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA), which he said turned out to be the saviour for the BJP-led central government during the Covid-19 pandemic."When Narendra Modi became PM, he ridiculed the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act saying it was an insult to Indians but the same man was forced during Covid to increase money given under MGNREGA and accepted that it played as a saviour," Gandhi said during his visit to Wayanad district of Kerala.Also Read | Instead of taking Ram Temple donations, slash fuel prices: Shiv Sena to govtPM Modi had in 2015 described the rural employment scheme MGNREGA as 'living monument of United Progressive Alliances’ failures’. However, during the pandemic additional funds amounting to ₹40,000 crore were allocated to the scheme as part of the Covid relief package by the Centre.The Congress leader is in Wayanad to inaugurate Poothadi Grama Panchayat Kudumpasree Sangamam, including the Vidhya Vahini bus distribution at Infant Jesus School in Kenichira. Gandhi is visiting his constituency to attend the padyatra or foot march in the poll-bound state of Kerala. The lawmaker will be attending the programme to mark the conclusion of the padyatra that has been undertaken by the state Leader of Opposition Ramesh Chennithala including some other programmes on February 22 and 23.Also Read | Narayanasamy loses trust vote, Congress govt falls in Puducherry: What next?Various leaders from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will also visit the southern state to join the Vijaya Yatra, which was flagged off by the Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath from Kasaragod on Sunday. Union ministers Gen VK Singh, Pralhad Joshi, Nirmala Sitharaman and Smriti Irani and former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis will participate in the yatra, including Union home minister Amit Shah who will attend the culmination ceremony on March 7 in Thiruvananthapuram.Earlier in the day, Gandhi also met with survivors of the Kozhikode plane crash that killed at least 18 people including two pilots. The Air India Express flight carrying around 190 passengers slipped while landing at Karipur airport in Kozhikode in August 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-takes-a-jibe-at-pm-modi-for-ridiculing-mgnrega-101613975909149.html
22-02-2021||India||PM Modi launches several oil and gas projects in poll-bound Assam||Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched several oil and gas projects, inaugurated an engineering college and laid the foundation stone of another in Assam on Monday. This is his third visit to the poll-bound state within a month.“Despite immense potential, previous governments treated the North Bank of Brahmaputra (in Assam) in a step-motherly manner. Connectivity, hospitals, educational institutions or industry was not a concern of these earlier governments,” said Modi in a public meeting at Silapathar. “Such bias was removed with the coming of the Bharatiya Janata party (BJP) government led by Sarbananda Sonowal. Work on the Bogibeel bridge on Brahmaputra was sped up and broad-gauge railway lines reached this area after our government came to power. Work on the second bridge at Kalia-Bhomora over Brahmaputra is going on at a fast pace,” he added. Also Read | PM Modi will visit Assam, Bengal on Monday to launch several projectsThe PM also indicated that the schedule for the assembly elections in Assam, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Puducherry could be announced in the first week of next month. The Election Commission of India is the autonomous constitutional authority responsible for administering election processes in India at the national and state level. “I know you all are waiting for the election. If we assume March 7 as the date of election announcement, since last time it was announced on March 4 [2016], this time it could be announced around that time. Whatever time I get in the interim I will try to keep coming to meet you all,” he said at a public meeting in Assam’s Dhemaji. The PM dedicated the INDMAX unit at Indian Oil Corporation’s (IOC) Bongaigaon refinery to the nation. INDMAX is an indigenously developed technology by IOC to produce a high yield of LPG and high-octane gasoline from various petroleum fractions. The unit will increase the refinery’s crude processing capacity from 2.35MMTPA (million metric tonnes per annum) to 2.7MMTPA. Its commissioning will also significantly enhance LPG production from 50TMT (thousand metric tonnes) to 257TMT and the Motor Spirit (Petrol) production from 210TMT to 533TMT. Modi will also inaugurate Oil India Limited’s secondary tank farm at Madhuban in Dibrugarh and a gas compressor unit at Hebeda in Makum. The farm has been built for the safe storage of about 40,000 kilolitres of crude oil and the separation of formation water from wet crude oil. The ₹490 crore project, will also have a dehydration unit with an operating capacity of 10,000 kilolitres per day, said a press information bureau release. The gas compressor station will increase the nation’s crude oil production capacity by nearly 16,500 metric tonnes per annum. Built at a cost of ₹132 crore, the station comprises three low-pressure booster compressors and three high-pressure lifter compressors, it added. The Dhemaji Engineering College has been built on 276 “bighas” of land, at a cost of about ₹45 crore. It is the seventh government engineering college in the state and will offer BTech courses in civil, mechanical and computer science engineering. The Sualkuchi Engineering College, whose foundation stone will be laid, will be built on 116 “bighas” of land at a cost of about ₹55 crore. “The projects will speed up the pace of development of Assam and also increase employment avenues in the state. Out governments are trying to reach the areas and people who have been neglected earlier,” said Modi. “Our governments at the Centre and Assam have done more for the development of the state in the past few years than what previous governments did for decades,” he added, while urging those present to strengthen the “double-engine” (BJP governments at Centre and state) of growth further. The programme at Dhemaji was attended by Assam governor Jagdish Mukhi, chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal and union petroleum and gas minister Dharmendra Pradhan. On January 23, Modi had addressed a rally in Sivasagar and distributed land allotment certificates to 106,000 landless families. On February 7, he had addressed another rally at Dhekiajuli, laid the foundation stones of two medical colleges and launched the Asom Mala road network project. On February 18, Modi launched several connectivity projects worth over ₹9,500 crore via video conferencing. They included the Mahabahu-Brahmaputra project to improve inland water transport connectivity, laying the foundation stone of a 19km bridge connecting Dhubri in Assam to Phulbari in Meghalaya and the ground-breaking ceremony (bhumi pujan) of another bridge connecting Jorhat and Majuli island.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-assembly-election-schedule-likely-in-first-week-of-march-says-pm-modi-101613980400579.html
22-02-2021||India||Testing increased at IGI Airport to help detect new Covid-19 variant||As the Union Health Ministry announced the stringent approach to detect new Covid-19 variant and made it mandatory for identified high-risk countries, United Kingdom (UK), Middle East, and Europe, the testing labs at Indira Gandhi International Airport have a monumental task in hand."Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW) in consultation with the Ministry of Civil Aviation reviewed the situation with regards to the point of entry actions required to minimize the risk of importation of mutant strains of SARS-CoV-2. The Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) shall be valid w.e.f. from February 22," MoHFW Guidelines said.The testing process has suddenly increased about 10-fold; earlier about 500-700 international passengers were being tested per day, the lab is now staring at 7,000 plus numbers.While the lab infrastructure is equipped to even test above 15,000 samples per day, the operations team comprising data entry operators and sample collection technicians had to be increased 10 folds to handle the large inflow of passengers from the UK, Europe, and the Middle East."A massive recruitment drive was launched immediately after the SOP was announced and over 200 staff was recruited overnight and trained over the next two days," Genestrings lab said.As per record reported at the airport's peak hours, it was identified that between 3 am to 5 am, there will be roughly 1,200 passengers an hour who will undergo mandatory RT-PCR testing."It is a very brave and timely decision taken by the government to control a new wave of Covid-19 cases in the country. We are fully prepared and will ensure a smooth experience for all passengers who will be quite anxious," said Dr Gauri Agarwal, Director of Genestrings Diagnostic labs.Genestrings lab is the only lab at Indira Gandhi International Airport that was the first lab in the country to set up an arrival testing facility in September 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/testing-increased-at-igi-airport-to-help-detect-new-covid-19-variant-101613978962677.html
22-02-2021||India||News updates from HT: PM Modi urges bolstering of indigenous defence manufacture and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Focus should be on providing defence equipment to smaller nations: PM ModiPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday outlined that the country now has to step out from an import-dependent status and fast track its defence manufacturing capabilities as third-world nations with relatively small economies will look forward to India for their defence needs. Read MoreSupreme Court stops NCLT from approving Future-Reliance dealThe Supreme Court on Monday stopped the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) from approving the Rs.24,713 crore deal between Kishore Biyani-led FRL and Mukesh Dhirubhai Ambani’s Reliance Retail. Read MoreChhattisgarh CM sends proposals worth Rs.234cr for tribal development to CentreChhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel has written to Union tribal affairs minister Arjun Munda requesting immediate approval of proposals worth Rs.234.18 crore. Read MoreThere aren't too many teams who come away from India with a series win: Ben StokesEngland are looking to bounce back in the four-match Test series against India. After comprehensively winning the first Test in Chennai. Read MoreNeha Kakkar's summer dress worth Rs.999 is perfect for a casual day outNeha Kakkar made for a beautiful bride and her wedding attires still serve as inspiration for a lot of brides-to-be. Read MoreSmriti Irani trying to convince everyone Monday is a fun day is all of usAre you groggily sitting in front of your laptop rubbing your eyes or have been rushing to get to work? Read MoreRoohi song Panghat: Janhvi Kapoor debuts her stunning and spooky avatars. WatchActor Janhvi Kapoor has shared the first song from her upcoming movie, Roohi. Starring Janhvi as a woman possessed by a ghost. Read MoreWatch: Indo-US joint military exercise 'Yudh Abhyas' concludes in BikanerThe closing ceremony of the joint military exercise between the Indian and US Army, ‘Yudh Abhyas’ was held at Mahajan Field Firing Range at Rajasthan’s Bikaner. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-pm-modi-urges-bolstering-of-indigenous-defence-manufacture-and-all-the-latest-news-101613976694198.html
22-02-2021||India||Narayanasamy loses trust vote, Congress govt falls in Puducherry: What next?||Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka and now Puducherry—the Congress’ inability to handle its internal undercurrents continues to topple its governments. The defeat of the V Narayanasamy-led Congress government in Puducherry in the trust vote on Monday was a foregone conclusion. But it will have larger consequences for the Congress that is already riddled with crises. Some party strategists concede that the fall of the government in Puducherry, less than two months before it goes to polls, would significantly weaken their prospects in the upcoming elections as the message to the voters is loud and clear: the Congress can’t keep its house in order. To be sure, Narayanasamy’s campaign against lieutenant governor Kiran Bedi had some resonance on the ground, or that’s what the Congress strategists in Chennai claimed. But Bedi’s swift sacking on February 16, minutes after the Congress lost its crucial MLAs, was aimed to take the wind out of the Congress’ campaign against her alleged high-handedness. Also Read | Will not stake a claim to form govt in Puducherry, says BJPPuducherry was the only Congress-ruled Union Territory in south India. The party, however, now plans to focus the campaign on “how the BJP betrayed Puducherry’s mandate” and “manufactured rebellion” to “topple a popular government,” said a party strategist. “This has to be the key plank for the polls,” he added. At least three party leaders based in Chennai said that trouble had been brewing ever since Narayanasamy was sent from Delhi to lead the Union Territory. But the central leadership largely overlooked the issue and the Narayanasamy vs Kiran Bedi battle took prominence on their radar. “It will be very difficult to turn the tide of the upcoming election in Puducherry. We couldn’t complete our term and that’s purely due to our internal differences, which the BJP fully exploited,” said a second senior party leader based in Chennai. Top Congress strategists believe that the party’s inability to retain its people from jumping ship in places where they are in power remains a lingering issue. Two years ago, the Congress’ coalition government with the Janata Dal (United) in Bihar fell after as many as 16 MLAs from the ruling side rebelled against their own government. Just a year ago, the Congress lost Madhya Pradesh as well. The party was able to end the BJP’s dream run in power for 15 years in Madhya Pradesh. But the Congress leadership failed to solve lingering issues after Kamal Nath became the chief minister. And in March 2020, one of the most prominent leaders of Congress, Jyotiraditya Scindia quit the Congress with a few other MLAs. Shivraj Singh Chauhan returned to the CM’s seat after sitting in the Opposition for just a year and three months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/narayanasamy-loses-trust-vote-congress-govt-falls-in-puducherry-what-next-101613978900358.html
22-02-2021||India||Focus should be on providing defence equipment to smaller nations: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday outlined that the country now has to step out from an import-dependent status and fast track its defence manufacturing capabilities as third-world nations with relatively small economies will look forward to India for their defence needs.“The changes in the world order that we are observing have made smaller nations aware of the need to strengthen their defence. Defence is one of the primary concerns for these countries. It is natural for these nations to look forward to India to help these nations strengthen their defence capabilities,” the Prime Minister said.PM Modi further added, “We have the ability of low-cost manufacturing and we also are able to deliver quality products. We are playing an important role through our rising defence manufacturing sector and there are opportunities to further help these nations with our defence equipment manufacturing abilities.”The Prime Minister, while addressing the webinar on effective implementation of budget provisions in the defence sector, outlined that India is manufacturing defence equipment to more than 40 nations. He said that the focus should be on making India one of the largest defence exporters.He highlighted that startups and medium and small enterprises (MSMEs) are working hard to provide the requisite tools needed to achieve these targets. “MSMEs are the spine for larger industries. Reforms introduced by the governments are empowering the MSME sector and are now encouraged to expand their operations,” he said.PM Modi said that MSMEs add firepower to all the industries. He further added that the defence corridors that are being built across the country are empowering local manufacturers.Earlier in the day, defence minister Rajnath Singh said that India is focusing on bringing a turnover of ₹175,000 crore through defence export. “The ministry of defence aims to achieve a turnover of ₹175,000 crore ($25 billion) including export of ₹35,000 Crores ($5 billion) in aerospace, defence goods and services by 2024,” Singh was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Singh also said that steps are being taken to reduce the time for defence acquisition. He said, “The ministry is also working on reducing the delays in timelines of capital acquisition. We are making efforts to complete defence acquisition within two years, instead of the current practice of three to four years being taken on the average.”India’s defence sector received a hike of 1.4% along with a 19% rise in capital outlay for military modernisation in the Union Budget tabled earlier this month. Allocation for defence services was increased to ₹4.78 lakh crore compared to ₹4.71 lakh crore in the 2020-21 budget, according to a report by news agency PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/focus-should-be-on-providing-defence-equipment-to-smaller-nations-pm-modi-101613977767798.html
22-02-2021||India||People will punish oppn in polls: Puducherry CM Narayanasamy resigns after failing to prove majority||Puducherry chief minister V Narayanasamy on Monday met Lieutenant Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan moments after failing to prove majority on the floor of the House and tendered his resignation to her. “We have submitted our resignations… In the coming elections people will punish the opposition who used the three nominated MLAs (of the Bharatiya Janata Party) to topple our government,” the senior Congress leader said.“We walked out of the House as Speaker refused to accept our contention that the nominated MLAs (of the BJP) do not have a right to vote,” he said.As Puducherry assembly Speaker VP Sivakozhundu announced that the Congress-led government of Narayansamy failed to prove its majority on the floor of the House, alliance leaders walked out before the motion was put for voting. The Speaker also adjourned the House sine die.Narayanasamy had moved the motion seeking the confidence vote minutes after the assembly met for a one-day special session. The chief minister accused former lieutenant governor Kiran Bedi of "colluding with the opposition" to topple his government. “Former LG Kiran Bedi and the Centre colluded with the opposition and tried to topple the government. It is clear that the people of Puducherry trust us. This is a government elected by the people,” the CM said. “We formed the government with the support of DMK and independent MLAs. After that, we faced various elections. We have won all the by-elections. It is clear that people of Puducherry trust us,” he also said.Also read | A timeline of the crisis"We demanded full statehood to stop the nominated LG from snatching the rights of the people of Puducherry,” Narayanasamy added as he claimed that the Centre has betrayed the people of Puducherry by not granting the requested funds.The Congress and DMK were left with 12 legislators, including an Independent, in the House whose effective strength is now 26 after a series of resignations. The opposition alliance has 14 MLAs.The floor test was ordered last Thursday by Soundararajan last Thursday immediately after she was handed an additional charge of Puducherry.The assembly elections are likely to take place in Puducherry in April-May. The Congress-led coalition had the previous elections held in 2016.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/puducherry-cm-narayanasamy-loses-trust-vote-in-assembly-101613974965673.html
22-02-2021||India||Chhattisgarh CM sends proposals worth ₹234cr for tribal development to Centre||Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel has written to Union tribal affairs minister Arjun Munda requesting immediate approval of proposals worth ₹234.18 crore for minor-forest-produce-based development of the state’s tribals citing the scheme’s success in providing employment and sustenance to tribals during Covid-19 pandemic.Chief minister Bhupesh Baghel has stated that 44% of the geographical area in Chhattisgarh is covered in forests and 31.80% of the population is tribal.“Under the Government of India's Minimum Support Price Scheme, 38 kinds of minor forest produce along with 14 others types of minor forest produce are procured at the rate fixed by state government. In year 2020-21, minor forest produce worth nearly ₹115 crore rupees have been procured at minimum support price so far. This scheme has played an important role in providing employment to tribal people and forest dwellers during Covid-19 crisis. In year 2020-21, Chhattisgarh secured first rank in the country for collecting 72.5 percent of the total minor forest produce collection under Minimum Support Price Scheme. Similarly, under Pradhan Mantri Van Dhan Yojana, 139 Van Dhan Vikas Kendras have been established and more than 120 herbals products are being manufactured and sold under the brand name of 'Chhattisgarh Herbals',” the CM stated in his letter stated.Baghel further elaborated on the state government’s proposals.Also Read: Chhattisgarh CM requests Rajnath to expedite army cantonment set up at Bilaspur“This includes the proposal worth Rs.100 crore for working capital for collection of minor forest produce at minimum support price, proposal worth ₹21.91 crore for reimbursement of business losses incurred under the Minimum Support Price Scheme,” the letter states.He also mentions proposal worth ₹65.77 crore for livelihood development in scheduled areas under Covid-19 pandemic response plan. “Hence, I request approve these proposals and sanction funds under the same as soon as possible,” Baghel said in the letter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-cm-sends-proposals-worth-rs-234cr-for-tribal-development-to-centre-101613974415346.html
22-02-2021||India||Fuel prices unchanged for second straight day. Check rates in your city||State-run oil marketing companies (OMC) on Monday kept fuel prices unchanged for a second straight day amid a nationwide rise in their rates, which has triggered protests in some parts of the country. After 12 consecutive days of fuel price hike, OMCs had first kept the rates steady on February 21.Petrol, which has crossed the record ₹90 per litre mark in Delhi, stays put at ₹90.58 while the price of an equal quantity of diesel is unchanged at ₹80.97. Mumbai has the highest fuel prices among the four metros, as a litre of petrol and diesel in Maharashtra’s is retailing at ₹97 and ₹88.06 respectively. Consumers in the southern metropolis of Chennai will have to pay ₹92.59 and 85.98 for a litre of petrol and diesel respectively, followed by Kolkata at ₹91.78 and ₹84.56. Petrol in the IT hubs of Hyderabad and Bengaluru is at ₹94.18 and ₹93.61 per litre, respectively, while a litre of diesel is at ₹88.31 and ₹85.84.Fuel prices were hiked by 39 and 37 paise per litre respectively in the national capital on February 20, taking a litre of petrol to ₹90.58 and diesel to ₹80.97 for a litre.OMCs like Indian Oil, Hindustan Petroleum (HP) and Bharat Petroleum (BP) determine fuel prices daily, as per rates in the international market. The practice of daily price revision came into effect from June 15, 2017. Before that, prices were revised every fortnight.With fuel prices rising, Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Sunday wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Gandhi accused PM Modi’s government of ‘profiteering off people’s misery and suffering.’ In the three-page letter, she pointed out how the crude oil price is nearly half of what it was during the Congress-led United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government’s tenure. “Therefore, your government’s act of raising prices is little less than a brazen act of profiteering,” Gandhi wrote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fuel-prices-unchanged-for-second-straight-day-check-rates-in-your-city-101613972332906.html
22-02-2021||India||Supreme Court to hear Amazon’s plea to stall Future-Reliance deal today||The Supreme Court will on Monday hear a petition by e-commerce giant Amazon, which has appealed against an order of the Delhi high court lifting the restraint against the ₹24,713 crore deal between Kishore Biyani-led Future Retail Limited (FRL) and Mukesh Dhirubhai Ambani’s Reliance Retail. A bench of justices Rohinton F Nariman and BR Gavai will take up the plea by United States-based Amazon to restore the status quo on the FRL-Reliance deal till the time various legal issues related to the matter are finally decided by the high court. Amazon, in its appeal, among a host of legal issues, has primarily questioned the maintainability of FRL’s petition before the Delhi high court’s division bench against the interim order on the single judge who had restrained the Future Group from proceeding further with entities of the Reliance Group. Also Read | Future Group creditors scramble to recover $2.5 billion loansThe US retail giant has also banked on the October 25, 2020 Emergency Arbitrator (EA) order passed by the Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC) that had restrained FRL from going ahead with the deal with Reliance Retail. “No provision for appeal is provided against an order passed under Section 17(2) of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act. The respondents (FRL) have not challenged the EA order itself, but have preferred to challenge the single judge order enforcing the EA order,” said the Amazon’s petition in Supreme Court. It added that the single judge’s status quo order was passed for the limited purpose of preserving the rights of the parties till pronouncement of final orders and the division bench of the Delhi high court ought not to have issued its order “hastily”. Pointing out the consequences of lifting the status quo, Amazon’s petition said, “The greater the progress made towards the completion of the impugned transaction, the harder it will be to unravel it. Over time, the interests of additional third parties may also become entwined with the transaction and be subsequently compromised.” On February 8, a division (two judge) bench of the Delhi high court had stayed a single judge’s direction of February 2 that had put a temporary freeze on the deal between Future Retail and Reliance. The order by the division bench had come on FRL’s appeal, which had claimed that due to the status quo position, the proceedings before the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) for approving the amalgamation scheme were held up. This could be an “absolute disaster” for the company with its outlets across India being shut and nearly 25,000 employees losing their livelihood, FRL had contended. The order, in an appeal before Supreme Court, had noted, “Statutory authorities should not be restrained from proceeding in accordance with law on Future-Reliance deal,” while lifting the single judge’s status quo direction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-to-hear-amazon-s-plea-to-stall-future-reliance-deal-today-101613971399980.html
22-02-2021||India||Maharashtra’s Amravati to go under week-long lockdown from today||Authorities in Maharashtra’s Amravati will place the district under a week-long lockdown from 8pm on Monday and enforce restrictions in Akola, Washim, Buldhana and Yavatmal amid a rise in the cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the region and the state. Amravati’s guardian minister Yashomati Thakur said the lockdown will be in force till 8am on March 1, which she said was essential to control the recent spike in cases.Also read | Second Covid-19 wave nearing, lockdown decision in citizens’ hands: Uddhav“During the lockdown, all shops, except those dealing in essential commodities, will remain shut along with the government and private educational institutions, private coaching classes, training schools. People can buy items of daily need from 9am to 5pm," the minister said on Sunday.Thakur also said that cinema theatres, gymnasiums, swimming pools and parks will remain shut and gatherings for entertainment, educational, cultural, religious purposes etc will not be permitted. She said that industries, which have been given permission earlier, will continue to operate and government offices and banks will work with 15 per cent staff or a minimum of 15 people. "Hotels and restaurants will sell only parcels while goods transport will continue unrestricted during the February 22-March 1 lockdown," she said.Also watch: Amaravati under 1-week lockdown from Feb 22The number of beds for Covid-19 treatment will be increased from 1,400 to 1,600 in the city and strict restrictions will be enforced in nine containment zones declared by the Amravati civic body, Thakur said.Amravati, which is in the Vidarbha region of Maharashtra, is reporting the highest number of Covid-19 cases across the state. Amravati, including the district and the city, reported 926 cases on Sunday and 1,055 cases were recorded in the district on Saturday. The district has reported 7,470 Covid-19 cases and 43 related deaths since February 1.Also read | Vidarbha reports highest number of Covid-19 casesDivisional commissioner Piyush Singh announced certain restrictions in Amravati, Akola, Washim, Buldhana and Yavatmal after the tally rose by 709 cases on Sunday. Singh has said that the restrictions in other districts of the division will be for 36 hours, barring Amravati and Achalpur.Educational offices, non-teaching staff, research staff and scientists will be permitted for e-information, evaluation of answer sheets and result declaration work only, district collector Shailesh Naval said. Naval also said that restrictions on the number of passengers in different types of vehicles have been put in place and inter-district bus transport will operate at 50 per cent capacity with passengers compulsorily maintaining social distancing and wearing masks. "All concessions given under the 'Mission Begin Again' stand cancelled till 8am of March 1," Naval said.Maharashtra's chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said daily cases in the state had risen to almost 7,000 from about 2,000 earlier this month, demanding stricter measures from Monday to control the spread of the virus in four districts of the state. "The second wave has been knocking on our door. Whether it has come or not will be confirmed in next eight to 15 days," he said in a televised address, adding that restrictions could be widened beyond those four districts if necessary.Thackeray o religious, social and political gatherings will be prohibited in the state from Monday and asking people to follow "Covid-appropriate" behaviour and safety norms.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtras-amravati-to-go-under-week-long-lockdown-from-today-101613969712075.html
22-02-2021||India||Hathras gangrape case: CBI files status report before high court||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has filed a status report in the Hathras gangrape and murder case before the Lucknow bench of the Allahabad high court which had taken suo motu cognisance of the incident last year. The court fixed the next date of hearing for March 19. The agency filed the status report on Friday in a sealed envelope in the court of justices Rajan Roy and Jaspreet Singh. CBI lawyer Anurag Singh apprised the court with the investigation till date in the presence of senior advocate Jaideep Narain Mathur, who has been appointed amicus curiae in the case. Additional advocate general Vinod Kumar Shahi appeared on behalf of the Uttar Pradesh government. Also Read | SC relief for journalist Siddique Kappan, gets bail to visit ailing motherOn September 14 last year, a 19-year-old Dalit woman was allegedly raped by four persons in Hathras district when she had gone to the fields to collect cattle fodder. She was referred to Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital in an extremely critical condition where she died two weeks later on September 29. There was public outrage over the way the body was sent back to Hathras and cremated late night without the family’s consent.The Supreme Court also ordered the Allahabad high court to monitor the investigation into the Hathras gangrape case. A three-judge bench of the apex court, headed by CJI SA Bobde, felt it appropriate that the high court monitored the case as it was already examining a suo motu proceeding on the “hurried cremation” of the woman.The CBI, in December last year, charged four men with gang-rape and murder, basing its findings on the dying declaration of the woman and rejecting earlier statements by state government officials and the police that disputed rape.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hathras-gangrape-case-cbi-files-status-report-before-high-court-101613969599972.html
22-02-2021||NA||Farm laws protests LIVE: SKM says Narendra Tomar's remarks on repeal of farm laws insulting to farmers||Farmers protests against the farm laws have entered Day 87. The deadlock between farmers and the government continues as no indications of fresh discussions have been announced by either side following the violence that erupted on January 26 when a planned tractor rally deviated from its original course.Farmers have also criticised the government over the arrest of activists supporting the farmers’ unions representatives against the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance, and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. Bengaluru-based activist Disha Ravi’s arrest led to widespread condemnation from activists as well as the opposition parties.Mahapanchayats meant to rally support for the farm bills have taken the centrestage across the states demanding repeal of the farm laws. Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi is scheduled to address 2 Mahapanchayats later this week, Kejriwal is scheduled to hold one gathering in Meerut and Congress leader Sachin Pilot held one Mahapanchayat last week in Rajasthan.Rakesh Tikait is also scheduled to hold several Kisan Mahapanchayats this week. Tikait will hold two rallies today in Haryana and Rajasthan.Follow LIVE updates here:Follow all the updates here:Samyukta Kisan Morcha says Agriculture minister Tomar's comments 'insulting'Samkyukta Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of protesting farm unions, accuses Union minister Narendra Singh Tomar of 'insulting' farmers by his remarks that mere gathering of crowd does not lead to revocation of agri lawsSamkyukta Kisan Morcha said that the Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar had insulted the protesting farmers by saying that gathering of crowd doesn't lead to revocation of farm laws, reports PTI.Bhupinder Singh Hooda says Centre should restart dialogue with protesting farmersFormer Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda says Centre should take initiative and restart dialogue with farmers protesting against farm laws to find solution to issueFormer Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda had asked the centre to take initiative and restart dialogue with farmers to solve the farm laws issue, reports PTI.SAD core committee pays tribute to farmers who lost their lives during the protests.@Akali_Dal_ core committee today paid glowing tributes to all farmers who have sacrificed their lives during the on-going struggle against centre’s 3 hated agri laws. These farmers are martyrs to the cause of peasantry and of a prosperous Punjab. pic.twitter.com/WxXydjDD0yShiromani Akali Dal (SAD) chief Sukhbir Singh Badal said that the party's core committee paid tributes to the farmers who have lost their lives during the protests against the Centre's three farm laws.Police arrest one more person for January 26 clashesDelhi Police have arrested Jaspreet Singh, a resident of Delhi, who climbed up one of the tombs located on both sides of ramparts of Red Fort during Jan 26 violence. He is seen in offensive gesture holding steel tensile installed at Red Fort: Police(Photo source - Delhi Police) pic.twitter.com/QFxssv0r1rDelhi police arrested Jaspreet Singh, a resident of Delhi, for climbing on the Red Fort during the tractor rally clashes on January 26, reports ANI.Disha Ravi sent to one day police custody by Delhi courtToolkit case: Delhi court sends climate activist Disha Ravi to one day police custodyDelhi court sends Disha Ravi, arrested in the toolkit case, to one day police custody, reports PTI.Tejashwi Yadav takes tractor to Bihar Assemblyकमरतोड़ महंगाई, डीजल, पेट्रोल व घरेलू रसोई गैसों की बेतहाशा मूल्य वृद्धि के विरुद्ध और देशभर में आंदोलनरत किसानों के समर्थन में ट्रैक्टर चलाकर विधानसभा सत्र में भाग लेने जाते हुए। pic.twitter.com/fmPCNewD3cThe RJD leader took a tractor to the Bihar Assembly ahead of the state budget session to protest against the three farm laws as well as the rising fuel prices.3 laws will empower 3 people: Rahul GandhiAgriculture is the only business that belongs to Bharat Mata. Every other business belongs to somebody or the other. A few people want to own this business & these 3 laws are designed to allow 2-3 people to own & control Indian agriculture: Rahul Gandhi in Wayanad, Kerala pic.twitter.com/I3aD3oBUXORahul Gandhi said that the three laws have been brought to help a selected group of people who wish to control India's agriculture, news agency ANI reported.Rahul Gandhi alleges that 3 farm laws will adversely affect agri sectorThey're not going to take back these 3 new laws unless they're forced & there's a reason for it. The reason is that these 3 laws are designed to destroy the agricultural system in India & give the entire business to 2-3 of Mr Narendra Modi's friends: Congress leader Rahul Gandhi https://t.co/KHW3ICW1r3Congress MP Rahul Gandhi at a gathering in Wayanad said that the govt's three new farm laws will affect the agri sector. He said that the Prime Minister plans to benefit multinational companies through the new farm laws.BKU's Ugrahan team shares pictures of Ekta rally from HaryanaMammoth gathering in Barnala Kissan-Majdoor EKTA Rally.Organised by @Bkuektaugrahan and PMKU in the grain market of Barnala pic.twitter.com/JwJtKRqGadThe Ugrahan-wing of the Bharatiya Kisan Union shared images of the Kisan Rally being held in Barnala grain market. BKU (Ugrahan) and PMKU held these mega rallies to gather support against the farm laws, according to the BKU (Ugrahan)'s Twitter page.Crowds will not lead to revocation of laws: TomarUnion minister Narendra Singh Tomar reiterated his wish to restart negotiations with protesting farmers and said that govt is sensitive to the issues raised by protesting farmers' unions. "Considering the issue with sensitivity, the government has held 12 rounds of talks with the farmer unions but decisions on the basis of talks could be taken when objections (over the new farm laws) are pointed out," Tomar was quoted as saying by news agency PTI on Sunday.Addressing reporters in Gwalior he said, "You flatly say revoke the laws...It doesn't happen that crowd gathers and the laws get revoked."Tikait invokes Gandhi's teachingsईश्वर अल्ला तेरे नाम सरकार को सन्मति दे भगवान#charkha #FarmersProstests @AHindinews @PTI_News @Kisanektamorcha pic.twitter.com/6Snl7bn7cDBKU farmer leader Rakesh Tikait seen spinning charkha in a video shared by him on his Twitter page. He wrote famous lines written by Mahatma Gandhi as a caption showing his respect to the father of the nation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-law-protests-day-87-mahapanchayat-tikait-disha-ravi-modi-narendra-tomar-yogendra-yadav-delhi-police-tikri-border-ghazipur-samyukt-kisan-morcha-101613966399515.html
22-02-2021||India||India’s Covid-19 tally over 11 million, death toll at 156,385||India’s tally of the coronavirus disease went past the 11 million mark on Monday, a little over two months after the world’s second worst-hit country recorded 10 million infections in December last year, according to the data released by the Union ministry of health and family welfare. There were 14,199 new Covid-19 cases and 83 related deaths in the last 24 hours, the health ministry dashboard showed at 8am. Its active caseload has risen to 150,055 after dropping considerably this month. The country has clocked 11,005,850 cases and 156,385 deaths so far.The Centre on Sunday wrote to states and Union territories advising them to step up testing to contain the spread of the virus at the earliest amid a rise in the number of active Covid-19 cases. It asked states to work on five major areas—improve the overall testing numbers by focusing on increasing the proportion of RT-PCR tests, refocus on strict and comprehensive surveillance as well as stringent containment in selected districts, regular monitoring of the mutant strains through testing followed by genome sequencing and monitoring of the emerging cluster of cases, focus on clinical management in districts reporting higher deaths and all negative rapid antigen test results to be mandatorily followed by RT-PCR test. Also read | Govt to vaccinate people above 50 from March 1, asks states, UTs to prepareKerala, Maharashtra, Punjab, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir, the Centre has said, are areas of concerns and pointed out that there are more than 74% of the active cases are in the southern and western states. Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray warned of another lockdown on Sunday warned people over the surge in the cases of the coronavirus disease in the state and a looming second wave.Thackeray also said that the government will review the need for a fresh lockdown after eight days. He, however, announced a ban on religious, social, political programmes in the state starting Monday and empowered the local administration to impose curbs. Many districts such as Amravati, Yavatmal, Akola, Nashik, Pune imposed stricter curbs in the wake of the rising cases over the last two weeks.Also read | Travelling to India? Here are do’s, don’ts for international arrivals from today“It will be known in next 8-15 days whether it is a second wave. We had been struggling to face it during the first wave because of the poor health infrastructure, but it will be worse if witnessed another peak of the cases. I am worried about the severity of the second wave if it occurs in the state,” he said during his virtual address.The country had seen its Covid-19 tally crossing the 2 million mark on August 7, 3 million on August 23, 4 million on September 5 and 5 million on September 16. On September 28, it went past 6 million, 7 million on October 11, crossed 8 million on October 29, 9 million on November 20 and surpassed 10 million on December 19.Also read | Amaravati under 1-week lockdown from Feb 22With 9,695 discharges between Sunday and Monday morning, 10,699,410 patients of the coronavirus disease have been cured so far and the national recovery now stands at 97.21%.The dashboard also shows that 11,116,854 people have been given the vaccine against the coronavirus disease so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-covid-19-tally-over-11-million-death-toll-at-156385-101613966685580.html
22-02-2021||NA||Puducherry Floor Test Highlights: Narayanasamy explains walkout from assembly||Puducherry's Congress-led govt on Monday lost trust vote in the legislative assembly resulting in its fall. The floor test was necessitated as the govt lost six MLAs since January, including two on Feb 21, which resulted in it losing majority. In all, the ruling coalition had lost seven MLAs since last July (six Congress, one DMK). The Congress' strength in the 33-member assembly is down to 9, including the Speaker, while that of the ruling alliance, including the party, is at 12. Ally DMK, one of whose MLAs quit on Feb 21, is at two while one independent lawmaker supported the govt.Also Read | Puducherry CM Narayanasamy loses trust vote in assemblyCM V Narayanasamy of the Congress faced a challenging task as the Opposition had fourteen members in the House, where the effective strength had come down to 26, with fourteen becoming the majority mark. Of the five Congress MLAs who resigned since January, two were ministers, one of whom joined the Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Total two Congress lawmakers have joined the BJP, both of whom quit last month. The Union territory of Puducherry is likely to go to polls in April/May.Follow all the updates here:BJP destabilizing Congress govts using unethical means: Rajasthan CM on Puducherry developments As the Narayanasamy government lost power in Puducherry, Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Monday, in a tweet, accused the BJP of grabbing power by destabilising Congress governments.Walked out of House because 3 nominated members made to vote: V NarayanasamySince they were made to vote we walked out of House, went to Lt Gov & submitted resignation. Since ruling party was not there, Speaker should've taken the vote of Opposition & declared that Confidence motion has been defeated. There is flaw in his procedure: V Narayanasamy (2/2)Since the three nominated MLAs were made to vote we, walked out of House, went to L-G and submitted resignation: Former Puducherry CM V NarayanasamyPuducherry third Cong govt to collapse in three yearsPuducherry is the third state or Union territory where a Congress govt has collapsed, in three straight years. It lost its govt in Madhya Pradesh in March 2020 and in Karnataka in July 2019. In July 2020, it avoided a similar outcome in Rajasthan.Narayanasamy submits resignation to L-G SoundararajanPuducherry: V.Narayanasamy submitted the letter of the resignation of the chief minister and his Council of Ministers to Lt. Governor Dr Tamilisai Soundararajan pic.twitter.com/CpQffk16FHV Narayanasamy submits letter of resignation as CM, as well as that of his Council of ministers, to L-G Tamilisai Soundararajan, who assumed charge last week and ordered the floor test.What's next in Puducherry as govt falls?The defeat of the V Narayanasami-led Congress govt in Puducherry in the trust vote on Monday was a foregone conclusion. But it will have larger consequences for the Congress that is already riddled with crises.Also Read | Narayanasamy loses trust vote, Congress govt falls in Puducherry: What next?Won't stake claim to form govt in Puducherry, says BJPWe will not try and form a govt at this stage. With the people's blessings in the upcoming elections and under PM Modi's leadership, the BJP and its allies will come to power in May: V Saminathan, Puducherry BJP presidentAlso Read | Will not stake a claim to form govt in Puducherry, says BJP 'How will it save country?': AAP takes jibe at Congressइनको खुद की सरकार गिराने से फुर्सत नहीं है...देश क्या खाक बचाएगी कांग्रेस!#PuducherryPoliticalCrisis https://t.co/rpB5ALVyNe"Congress can't spare time from making its own governments collapse. How will it save the country?" tweets Delhi's ruling Aam Aadmi Party (AAP).Speaker's ruling incorrect, this is 'murder' of democracy: NarayanasamyThe Speaker's ruling is incorrect. BJP govt at the Centre, NR Congress and AIADMK have succeeded in dislodging our govt by using voting power used by three nominated members. This is murder of democracy. The people of Puducherry and this country will teach them a lesson: V Narayanasamy, according to ANI.Have submitted resignation to Speaker, says NarayanasamyWe have submitted our resignations to the Speaker, says Puducherry CM Narayanasamy as his govt loses floor test in the legislative assembly.Puducherry govt falls after losing trust voteCongress-led government in Puducherry falls after CM V Narayanasamy loses trust vote in the legislative assembly.Govt has failed to prove majority, announces SpeakerAs Narayanasamy and Congress-led alliance walk out, Speaker announces that the government has failed to prove its majority in the House.Govt has lost majority, announces Speaker VP SivakolundhuPuducherry legislative assembly speaker VP Sivakolundhu announces that Congress-led govt of V Narayanasamy has lost majority on the floor of the House.Where is black money, asks CM NarayanasamyCentre during election said if we come to power, we will bring back black money and give 15 lakh in bank accounts. Where is the black money?: V NarayanasamyPuducherry likely to go to polls in April/MayThe legislative assembly elections are likely to take place in Puducherry in April/May. The Congress-led coalition was victorious in the previous elections, in 2016.BJP 'forcibly' trying to implement Hindi, alleges NarayanasamyIn Tamil Nadu and Puducherry, we follow the two language system (Tamil and English) but BJP is trying forcibly to implement Hindi: V Narayanasamy, as per ANI.Late Sushma Swaraj said we deserve statehood: NarayansamyWhen late former Union minister Sushma Swaraj visited Puducherry, she said that Puducherry deserves statehood, instead of just being a Union territory.Worked for people despite being 'stifled,' says NarayanasamyPM Modi and former L-G Kiran Bedi 'stifled' us, yet we were able to work for the welfare of the people. Those elected by people must govern: Puducherry CM V NarayanasamyGiving small farmers more than what PM Modi is giving: NarayanasamyFor farmers, we had waived of cooperative farm loans when we formed the government. For small farmers PM Modi is giving 6000. We are giving 37,500. Worked with MLAs on ground during Covid-19.Ahead of floor test, CM Narayanasamy addresses assemblyCM V Narayanasamy, facing possible loss of power, speaks in legislative assembly ahead of floor test. Speaks on his government's achievements and challenges during his tenure.New L-G Soundararajan on Feb 18 ordered floor testTelangana governor Tamilisai Soundrarajan, who was given additional charge of Puducherry L-G, on Feb 18 ordered floor test for Feb 22, within hours of her swearing-in.CM Narayansamy arrives ahead of floor test in assemblyCM V Narayanasamy arrives in legislative assembly ahead of the floor test. Proceedings in House to commence shortly.I support govt, says independent MLA RamachandranI am supporting the existing government. I don't want to change my opinion. I think the existing minister will not have majority support in the assembly: V Ramachandran, Independent MLACM Narayanasamy leaves for legislative assemblyCM V Narayanasamy leaves for the legislative assembly from his residence. The ruling coalition's strength in the House is down to 12. Congress has nine MLAs, DMK two while one independent MLA supports the govt.Puducherry floor test todayCM V Narayanasamy of the Congress will face a floor test in the Puducherry legislative assembly on Monday. He has time till 5pm on the day to prove majority on the floor of the House.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/puducherry-floor-test-live-cm-v-narayanasamy-leaves-for-assembly-101613964233734.html
22-02-2021||India||Farmers’ protest: RSS starts outreach programme in Punjab||Concerned by the possibility of a pro-secession movement gaining ground in Punjab and the fear of hostility between Hindus and Sikhs, the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) has mobilised its cadre to carry out outreach programmes in the border state. The outreach is aimed at dispelling “misunderstandings” about the farm laws and to impress upon the need to insulate the ongoing farmers’ stir from pro-secession groups, said functionaries aware of the details. A section of farmers from Punjab have been demanding the three new farm laws be repealed, though the agitation has also been joined by farmers’ groups from Uttar Pradesh and Haryana, where influential Jat Khaps have also lent their support to the agitation. The Sangh, however, is worried by the agitation being used to stoke the pro-Khalistan sentiment. Also Read | Will soon visit Gujarat to mobilise support for farmers’ protest: Rakesh Tikait“There are some farmers who have been led to believe that because of the new laws they will lose ownership of their land or the government is withdrawing minimum support price for their crops. While there are some genuine concerns that the government is ready to discuss, a misinformation campaign was deliberately carried out. The agitation has now been taken over by vested interests, who are not worried about the farmers, but are driven by other motives,” said a senior functionary, requesting anonymity. At meetings with local leaders, Sangh functionaries have underlined the need to differentiate between the pro-farmer groups and individuals and organisations known to support the Khalistan movement. “Punjab lived through tumultuous times in the 1980s when terrorists killed thousands of innocent people. Nobody wants those days to return,” said the functionary quoted above. The Sangh also sees a “pattern” in how agitations are used to create hostility between communities. “When the Citizenship Amendment Act was formed, a misinformation campaign began that it would lead to Muslim citizens losing their citizenship. Similarly, famers from Punjab are being used to drive the agenda of anti-national forces,” said the functionary. The outreach, however, is not easy. At least two incidents of violent attacks at Shakhas were reported in February in Punjab’s Baltana. Many functionaries have had to face angry responses, especially in rural areas, said a second functionary. “There are some organisations that have, over the years, created doubts about the Sangh. Sometimes this takes a violent turn and we have lost people too, but we are confident of overcoming this,” said the second functionary. Though he did not name names, the second functionary was referring to the friction between the Akal Takht, which serves as the five seats of Sikh religious authority, and the Sangh that has not abated over the years. The Takht accuses the RSS of trying to subsume the Sikh identity with that of the Hindus, even as the Sangh has denied the charge. They object to the Sangh identifying Sikhs as Hindus. The Takht has also accused the Rashtriya Sikh Sangat—an offshoot of the Sangh formed in 1986 with the intent of building ties between Sikhs and the Hindus in the aftermath of the 1984 riots—of colluding with the RSS to gain control over the Sikh religious bodies. The Sangh’s latest outreach to build bridges between communities is a throwback to the 1980s when the third RSS chief Balasaheb Deoras had asked for full-time volunteers drawn from each state to be deputed to Punjab. The ongoing agitation and the consequent disruption of shakhas in the state have also led to concern that the functionaries could be sitting ducks for physical attacks. Asked whether the Sangh has requested for security at the shakhas and its offices, the second functionary said the issue will be discussed with the authorities. “The authorities are aware of the threat perception to the Sangh functionaries. Over the years there have been several attacks; since 2014 at least five senior functionaries have been killed. But the Sangh has continued its work. Even after the bloody attack of 1989, our work did not stop,” said the second functionary. In 1989, terrorists attacked a shakha in Moga killing 27 Swayamsevaks or volunteers; the death toll rose to over 40 after the injured succumbed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-rss-starts-outreach-programme-in-punjab-101613966059934.html
22-02-2021||India||11 months on, train services within Kashmir resume today||After remaining suspended for around 11 months owing to Covid-19, train services within Kashmir resumed on Monday. The train in Kashmir runs from Banihal in Jammu to Baramulla in north Kashmir – a distance of 137 km. There are 17 stations on the route.Tweeting about it, Union railways minister Piyush Goyal said on Sunday, “Railways to resume train operations in Kashmir valley on Banihal-Baramulla section from February 22, with two services operating initially. This will enhance ease of movement and provide a big boost to the tourism sector.”Northern Railways, Srinagar, chief railway manager Saqib Yousuf said, “There will be two trips to begin with...It will begin at 910 hours from Baramulla and at 1125 hours from Banihal.” Also Read | Security forces bust terror hideout in J-K’s Anantnag, seize weaponsThe rail services were suspended on March 19, 2020, owing to the novel coronavirus pandemic.Normally, during winters, there are 24 services daily of which eight are end-to-end while the rest originate from or terminate at central Kashmir’s Budgam railway station.In summers, every day, 35,000 to 40,000 commuters use train services while in winters, the number drops to around 25,000 people.Earlier, the train service was suspended in August 2019 following the Centre’s decision to nullify Article 370 and bifurcate the erstwhile state into two Union Territories.The service was subsequently restored after 100 days. In 2016, after the killing of Hizbul commander Burhan Wani, the services remained suspended for over six months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/train-services-within-kashmir-to-resume-today-101613965399863.html
22-02-2021||India||Puducherry floor test today: A timeline of the crisis||The Congress-led government in Puducherry will face a floor test on Monday as chief minister V Narayanasamy has been asked to prove his majority on the floor of the House. Holding on to the Union territory, which is scheduled to go to polls in April-May, looks increasingly challenging for the ruling Congress, which has similarly lost power in the states of Madhya Pradesh and Karnataka, in recent years.Also Read | Puducherry floor test today: Numbers, process and moreHere’s a look at the sequence of events that has led to the ongoing political crisis in Puducherry:January 25: Public works department minister A Namassivayam tenders his resignation from the legislative assembly within hours of being suspended from Congress for ‘anti-party’ activities. MLA E Theepaindan also resigns. Days later, they join the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).February 15: Health minister Malladi Krishna Rao also resigns. Rao’s resignation brings down the Congress’ strength in the legislative assembly to 11. Another MLA, N Dhanavelu, was disqualified in July last year for allegedly working against the party.Feb 16: A John Kumar becomes the fourth Congress MLA to resign since January. Later in the day, lieutenant governor Kiran Bedi, who tussled frequently with CM Narayanasamy during her tenure, is removed from her post. Telangana governor Tamilisai Soundararajan is given an additional charge.Also Read | Cong loses Puducherry majority after 4 MLAs quit; Kiran Bedi replacedFeb 17: Opposition parties, led by Leader of Opposition N Rangasamy, submit a petition to the L-G’s office, seeking a floor test. They argue that the ruling coalition has slipped below the majority mark of 17 and that both sides now have equal strength, 14.Also Read | Opposition in Puducherry calls for a floor testFeb 18: Soundararajan sworn-in as the new LG of Puducherry. Later in the day, her office orders a floor test in the assembly on Feb 22 by 5pm. A day later, the secretary of the legislative assembly confirms a special session for Monday.Feb 21: Two more lawmakers, Congress’ K Lakshminarayanan and ally DMK’s Venkatesan, also resign. Narayanasamy meets MLAs for the second time, after having met them Thursday night.Also Read | Puducherry test today; two ruling MLAs resignFeb 22: Narayanasamy government to prove majority on the floor of the House. Ruling coalition’s numbers down to 12 ( Congress 9, DMK 2 and one independent), the effective strength of the assembly down to 26. Fourteen is now the new magic number.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/puducherry-floor-test-today-a-timeline-of-the-crisis-101613964315569.html
22-02-2021||India||New updates from Hindustan Times: Key Delhi borders remain shut, traffic diverted and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Farmers’ protest: Key Delhi borders shut, traffic diverted, jams expectedVehicles entering Delhi from Ghaziabad are being diverted to alternative border routes such as Anand Vihar, Surya Nagar, Apsara, Bhopra, Loni, Kondli, Chilla, New Ashok Nagar, DND, and Kalindi Kunj. Read moreIndia-China disengagement: ITBP to continue patrolling in non-friction pointsEven as the disengagement of frontline solders at the north and south banks of Pangong Tso is completed, the Indo-Tibet Border Police (ITBP) will continue to patrol areas in Ladakh that were not friction points between India and China. Read more Modi to launch several projects on third visit to poll-bound Assam in a monthPrime Minister Narendra Modi will launch several projects on Monday in Assam—his third visit to the poll-bound state in a month. Read more UP sounds alert after Covid surge in other states, to monitor visitorsSounding an alert due to rising Covid-19 cases in states such Maharashtra, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Chattisgarh, Punjab, Haryana and Kerala, Uttar Pradesh will issue guidelines for visitors to UP from these states, said a top health department official on Sunday. Read more Sunil Gavaskar comments on R Ashwin's chances of making it to India's limited-overs squadRavichandran Ashwin may have excelled in the longest format of the game with both ball and bat but former Indian captain and batting legend Sunil Gavaskar believes that the off-spinner will not be able to make a comeback in India's limited-overs squad. Read more Swara Bhasker on Kangana Ranaut's reaction to MLA’s 'naachne gaane waali' comment: 'You made it worse'Swara Bhasker came out in support of Kangana Ranaut after a politician used derogatory language for the Dhakaad actor. Read more Shanaya Kapoor shows how to mix athleisure with femininity in all-pink cargosFor an impromptu photo shoot, Shanaya Kapoor opted to wear an all-pink cargo hoodie and sweat pants worth ₹20k and show us the right way to mix athleisure with chic vibes. Read more 'Love jihad plot to make Kerala Islamic state': UP CM Yogi campaigns for BJPUttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath campaigned in Kerala ahead of elections. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-updates-from-hindustan-times-key-delhi-borders-remain-shut-traffic-diverted-and-all-the-latest-news-101613963376133.html
22-02-2021||India||Light rain, snow likely over J&K, Himachal and Uttarakhand||Under the influence of a Western Disturbance over western Himalayan region, scattered to widespread rainfall and snowfall is likely over Jammu, Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit, Baltistan and Muzaffarabad during the next five days. Fairly widespread rainfall or snowfall is also likely over Himachal Pradesh between February 22 and 25 and scattered rainfall or snowfall is over Uttarakhand during the same period.Thunderstorms or lightning are likely over Jammu, Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit, Baltistan, Muzaffarabad during the next five days and over Himachal Pradesh between February 23 and 25 and over Uttarakhand between February 23 and 24, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD).Also Read | Temperatures likely to rise over NW India in the next 3-4 daysHailstorms are also likely over Jammu, Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit, Baltistan and Muzaffarabad today and over Uttarakhand on February 23 and 24.A trough (area of low pressure) is running from Nagaland to Lakshadweep area across Gangetic West Bengal, Chhattisgarh, Telangana and southern parts of Coastal Karnataka and another trough in low level easterlies is lying over southwest and adjoining west-central Bay of Bengal, running from south Sri Lanka coast to north Andhra Pradesh coast across north Tamil Nadu coast.Under their influence, light to moderate rainfall is likely at some places over Andhra Pradesh, Yanam, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, Karaikal, Kerala and Mahe during the next two days. Heavy rainfall is also likely over parts of interior Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Karaikal. Thunderstorm and lightning are very likely over Andhra Pradesh, Yanam, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, Karaikal and Kerala during the next 24 hours.Dense fog is likely in isolated pockets very over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, northwest Uttar Pradesh in the morning hours today, IMD said in its bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/light-rain-snow-likely-over-j-k-himachal-and-uttarakhand-101613963359559.html
22-02-2021||India||India-China disengagement: ITBP to continue patrolling in non-friction points||Even as the disengagement of frontline solders at the north and south banks of Pangong Tso is completed, the Indo-Tibet Border Police (ITBP) will continue to patrol areas in Ladakh that were not friction points between India and China. Patrolling in these areas had come to a standstill due to the tensions, people familiar with the development said. The border guarding force won’t be patrolling the areas where disengagement has taken place or other friction points like Depsang, Gogra, Hot Springs and Kongka La until the redesigned patrolling terms or status of old patrolling terms in these areas are conveyed by the Indian Army. “We will continue to patrol the areas which we were patrolling earlier on our perception area of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) and are not friction points. These include certain grazing grounds, inner areas and patrolling points towards Uttarakhand as well as the eastern sector,” said an officer, requesting anonymity. Also Read | Disengagement process in east Ladakh over, says RajnathUnion defence minister Rajnath Singh had told parliament last Thursday that the decision on other friction points will be taken during discussion between two armies 48 hours after “complete disengagement” in the Pangong Lake area — both north and south banks. As part of the agreement on disengagement, the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) moved its forces to the east of Finger 8 on the north bank, and the Indian Army to its base near Finger 3, Singh had said. ITBP, another officer said, will also maintain status quo for now at its Border Outposts (BOPs) in the Ladakh region, which were strengthened by ssome 60 additional companies (around 6,000 personnel) in June-July last after, after the Galwan valley clash on June 15-16 in which 20 Indian army soldiers and unknown number of PLA troops were killed. At least 25 to 30 additional personnel had been deployed in most BOPs of ITBP in Eastern Ladakh; usually 100 to 110 personnel are deployed in each border outpost. “Let’s see how things unfold in the next few weeks. If the disengagement in all areas concludes peacefully, the additional personnel will automatically be sent back,” said the second officer. Both officers cited above also confirmed that the infrastructure development, including construction of roads, repair/construction of jawans’ barracks/posts and 47 new BOPs sanctioned by the government across the 3,488km-long border with China will continue as well. In fact, ITBP’s first “climate-controlled” BOP at Lukung Valley along the strategic Pangong Tso Lake, built at a cost of around ₹17 crore, is currently under testing. The state-of-the-art BOP is likely to be officially operationalised by April or May this year. Both Indian and Chinese armies had deployed over 100,000 soldiers and advanced weaponry in their forward and depth areas of the Finger Area, a set of eight cliffs jutting out of the Sirijap range overlooking the Pangong Lake, for past eight months now. In a statement in Parliament last September, Rajnath Singh said no force in the world could stop the Indian Army from patrolling its borders. Sameer Patil, Fellow at the International Security Studies Programme at Gateway House, said – “ITBP’s role has always been like that. They play the primary role in patrolling the border like Border Security Force (BSF) at the International Border (IB) or Line of Control (LOC). The army comes into the picture when there is friction. ITBP knows the terrain, people and areas which need regular patrolling, so it will always be a crucial element in maintaining security at the LAC.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indiachina-disengagement-itbp-to-continue-patrolling-in-non-friction-points-101613962520108.html
22-02-2021||India||Travelling to India? Here are do’s, don’ts for international arrivals from today||The Union ministry of health and family welfare last week issued a fresh set of guidelines for international flyers travelling to India amid increasing evidence that mutant variants of the coronavirus are in circulation in several countries. So far, three SARSCoV-2 variants —(i) UK Variant [VOC 202012/01 (B.1.1.7)] (ii) South Africa variant [501Y.V2 (B.1.351)] and (iii) Brazil variant [P.1 (P.1)]—have been detected in 86, 44 and 15 countries respectively. All three variants have demonstrated increased transmissibility, as reported by the World Health Organization (WHO).The central government has also allowed states to consider additional requirements with regards to testing, quarantine and isolation for international travellers as per their risk assessment.Here’s the fresh set of guidelines applicable from today for all international travellers coming to India:Those coming from the United Kingdom, Europe and the Middle East need to keep in mind the following additional SOPs:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/travelling-to-india-here-are-do-s-don-ts-for-international-arrivals-from-today-101613961422247.html
22-02-2021||India||J&K Bank skips local dialects in diversity message on International language Day||Jammu and Kashmir Bank on Sunday was criticised for not including Kashmiri and Dogri, two majorly spoken languages of J&K, in its Mother Language Day message. The bank, however, later amended the message to add the two languages.In an advertisement disseminated through its social media handles, the bank said they “proudly speak the language of respect and diversity” and included a graphic of different languages spoken in the country.“At JK Bank, we encourage linguistic diversity and respect every language. Recognising and valuing each language this International Mother language Day,” it said in the message.The absence of local languages of the Union Territory including Kashmiri, Dogri, Pahari and Gojari prompted criticism from the netizens.“The J&K Bank could have left us without this insult on #MotherLanguageDay. The Bank is going across the country to celebrate even Marathi, Tamil and Gujarati but would not like to take ‘pride’ in Dogri and Kashmiri, for which the Parliament made a huge effort to declare them as official languages of Jammu and Kashmir. Forget Gojari and Pahari if you were thinking since seeing this,” wrote Zafar Choudhary, a journalist.Mir Faheem, a Srinagar resident, said the bank brought itself disrepute.“J&K Bank has only brought itself disrepute by ignoring Kashmiri language in its promotional advertisement pertaining to International Mother Language Day. And this runs contrary to its message of "respecting every language". So, in a way, it has become International Shame Day for J&K Bank,” he said.Also Read: Farooq Abdullah asks Centre to speak to Pakistan if terrorism has to be abatedAuthor Gowhar Geelani wrote: “Essentially, on international day of Mother Tongue, J&K Bank has telegraphed this message to the people of Kashmir: We respect diversity and all languages except the language of the native Kashmiris. If this is not cultural aggression & an insult to the identity of Kashmir, nothing is.”After the outrage, the bank made amends to first include Kashmiri and then Dogri in the graphic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jk-bank-skips-local-dialects-in-diversity-message-on-international-language-day-101613960775862.html
22-02-2021||India||Puducherry floor test today: Numbers, process and more||The Congress-led government in Puducherry will undergo a floor test ordered by Lieutenant Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan to prove its majority in the assembly on Monday, a day after Congress’ K Lakshminarayanan and Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) legislator Venkatesan announced their resignations. Chief minister V Narayanasamy-led government now has 12 MLAs and the opposition’s strength stood at 14 in the 33-member House.Puducherry assembly now has seven vacancies, resulting in an effective strength of 26. The simple majority figure is 14 after Sunday’s resignations. Four Congress MLAs – including former ministers A Namassivayam and Malladi Krishna Rao – quit earlier, while another party legislator was disqualified for anti-party activities last year. The opposition had submitted a petition seeking a floor test to the lieutenant governor (L-G)’s office on February 18.The numbersIn the 33-member assembly, 30 are elected seats and three are nominated members belonging to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Congress currently has nine MLAs. These include assembly speaker SP Sivakolundhi, who is not allowed to vote unless there is a tie.The Congress has the support of two DMK MLAs and an Independent MLA from Mahe. The opposition has seven MLAs from the All Indian NR Congress, led by former chief minister N Rangasamy, and four from the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK). It also includes the BJP’s nominated members, who are allowed to vote.Also read | ‘Nominated MLAs can’t vote’: Puducherry CM confident ahead of trust voteThe Congress-led government will fall short of the simple majority mark, with 11 votes, even if all ruling MLAs are present during the floor test. Assembly elections will be held in Puducherry later this year. The dates are yet to be announced.What is a floor test?A floor test is a motion initiated by the government seeking to know if it enjoys the confidence of the legislature. A confidence motion or a vote of confidence or a trust vote allows elected representatives to determine if the council of ministers command the confidence of the House. The idea behind the trust vote is to uphold the political accountability of the elected government to the state legislature.A no-confidence motion, or vote of no-confidence, or a no-trust vote, can be sought by any House member to express that they no longer have confidence in the government.Also read | ‘Centre denied rights to people of Puducherry’, says CM NarayanasamyThe chief minister, in the case of a coalition government, may be asked to move a vote of confidence and win a majority. The governor may call for a special session to see who has the majority to form the government in the absence of a clear majority, when there is more than one individual staking claim to form the government.Some legislators may be absent or choose not to vote. The numbers are then considered based only on those MLAs who were present to vote.How is a floor test conducted?Lieutenant Governor Tamilisai SSoundararajan, who was handed additional charge of Puducherry last week, had last Thursday ordered a floor test to ascertain the majority of the ruling Congress-led coalition on the floor of the House. She said the floor test will be done by 5pm on February 22 and that the voting shall take place by show of hands and the proceedings will be videographed.Also read | Did not block any welfare scheme, ensured transparency’: Kiran Bedi"The floor test in pursuance of the above directions shall be concluded by 5 pm on 22.02.2021 and the proceedings shall not be adjourned/delayed or suspended at any cost," the statement had said.The chief minister moves a vote of confidence and proves that he has the majority support. The chief minister will have to resign if the floor test fails.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/puducherry-floor-test-today-numbers-process-and-more-101613959831041.html
22-02-2021||India||Middle class must curb electricity consumption||If we don’t want dams in the Himalayas, the path is via our electricity consumption. India’s residential electricity consumption has tripled since 2000.A research conducted by Prayas, an organisation working on energy, reveals that residential consumption is increasing inequitably. The national Capital, which consumes 250-270 units per month, is comparable to a German household. Delhi’s electricity is from coal and dams. The study points out that this is more than Mumbai at 110 units or even Chandigarh at 208 units. Much is used for running gadgets like air-conditioners. Is this not inequitable?Coal and large hydro-electric plants account for most of this. We, and I am part of this, often ask that the coal-based thermal power plants upgrade to newer standards. Often, question the wisdom of renewables like hydro-electricity from large dams. But what we must know is that our energy demand is rapidly growing, and as 80% of India hits some or the other level of middle class by 2030, the consumption will increase significantly.Where will this come from? We can’t keep expanding even renewables-where is the land for large solar parks? We need an urgent paradigm shift. Energy efficient goods must displace others, and fiscal instruments must be used. Our losses in transmission and other sources have to be plugged, and energy generation cut down. We need a big shift in social behaviour- states must find culturally appropriate ways to cut down consumption. Only then can we expect fewer dams and coal-based power plants. Only then can we protect the environment.(The writer is the founder and director of the Chintan Environmental Research and Action Group)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/middle-class-must-curb-electricity-consumption-101613959132097.html
22-02-2021||India||Adityanath raises ‘love jihad’ and Sabarimala issues to hit out at Kerala govt||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday invoked “love jihad” and the Sabarimala temple issues to attack the ruling CPI(M) and the Opposition Congress and said both were in a race to implement appeasement politics in the state.Inaugurating the ‘Vijay Yatra’ led by state Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president, K Surendran in north Kerala’s Kasaragod ahead of the assembly elections, the UP CM said that in 2009 when the Kerala high court sought action against love jihad both [the parties] were in a hurry to deny it. “Love jihad was a move to establish Islamic State. When the high court ordered the police to investigate it in 2009 both parties denied it and supported such elements. Appeasement politics was carving Kerala and the BJP will put an end to it. The high court had said love jihad will turn Kerala into an Islamic republic. But the government was sleeping and encouraging these elements. Now many state governments have enacted law to contain the scourge.”Also Read | Atmosphere in Kerala is favourable towards BJP, says V MuraleedharanHe also criticised the government’s handling of the Sabarimala temple issue. “The government had hurt feelings of believers. I laud BJP workers who stood with devotees. While the state government was trying to destroy Sabarimala; in Uttar Pradesh, we are building a temple...,” he said.Reacting to UP CM’s statements, CPI(M) leader A Anandan said it did not need a certificate from a leader who always spewed communal venom. “He made such statements earlier too. We don’t expect anything else from him. His utterances will not polarise people here.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/adityanath-raises-love-jihad-and-sabarimala-issues-to-hit-out-at-kerala-govt-101613958690803.html
22-02-2021||NA||LIVE: Gujarat sets up Covid-19 check posts at Maha, MP borders||India's tally of cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) is crossed 11 million on Monday amid a fresh surge in its new daily cases. 14,199 new infections were reported in the last 24 hours, the Union health ministry reported on Monday morning. Maharashtra and Kerala have been flagged as areas of concern. The western state, which has the highest infection tally, has reported more than 6,000 daily infections for three straight days, including 6,971 on Sunday. Kerala, meanwhile, has been witnessing over 4,000 new daily cases, including 4,070 on Sunday.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageKerala also has the highest active caseload in the country, followed by Maharashtra. Meanwhile, the Covid-19 caseload of the United States is at over 28 million while more than 498,000 people have succumbed to the viral infection in the country, according to Johns Hopkins University. Brazil is the third country, after the US and India, to cross 10 million cases. More than 246,000 people have died in the South American nation, as per Johns Hopkins. The global tally of cases is at over 111 million while death toll exceeds 2.4 million.Follow all the updates here:Gujarat sets up Covid-19 check posts at Maha, MP bordersGujarat government sets up check posts at state borders with Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh borders to screen people arriving from these two states for Covid-19 symptoms, reported ANI.Maharashtra imposes further restrictions in Buldhana district Maharashtra district administration of Buldhana on Monday imposed restrictions in Buldhana city, Chikahli, Khamgaon, Deulgaon Raja, and Malkapur areas of Buldhana owing to the large number of Covid-19 cases recorded in the last few days. Buldhana ADM Dinesh Geete told news agency ANI. Maharashtra records 5,210 new cases of Covid-19, 18 fatalitiesMaharashtra recorded 5210 new cases of Covid-19, registering a slight dip in the number of Covid-19 cases on Monday. Mumbai too witnessed a similar decline after registering 761 new cases, and zero fatalities. The total number of cases in the state now stands at 21,06,094.Home minister Amit Shah holds meeting to review progress of Covid-19 vaccination driveUnion Home Minister @AmitShah holds review meeting on progress of COVID-19 vaccination drive@HMOIndia @PIB_India @airnewsalerts @DDNewslive pic.twitter.com/CBtPexBZEkSchools for Classes 3 to 5 to reopen in Haryana from WednesdayThe state of Haryana declared today that classes 3 to 5 will be reopening from Wednesday, after being closed since last year when the pandemic induced lockdown came into force.Read MoreNagpur placed under Covid-19 restrictions till March 7Maharashtra minister Nitin Raut told PTI on Monday that the city of Nagpur will witness certain restrictions to help curb the rising number of Covid-19 cases. He added that coaching classes will remain closed till March 7, public markets will be closed on the weekends, Marriage halls will not be allowed to operate from February 25 to March 7, and all social and political events too have been cancelled.Karnataka releases fresh travel advisory in the wake of rising Covid-19 casesKalaburagi district administration in Karnataka issued fresh travel advisory in the wake of rising Covid-19 cases. Five check posts have been set up at Karnataka-Maharastra border in the district. Travellers from Maharashtra, who enter Karnataka through the border at Afzalpura and Aland have to sumbit a RT-PCR negative test to be allowed entry, reported news agency ANI.India 'symbolically' hands over 100,000 doses of India made vaccines to MauritiusIndia’s helping hand - always over the horizon.Symbolically handed over 100,000 additional doses of commercially procured Made in India Covid vaccines.#VaccineMaitri pic.twitter.com/nI8QB5AK1hIndia’s cumulative testing stands at 21.15 croreIndia’s cumulative testing stood at 21.15 crore on Monday, with nearly 2400 testing labs operating across the country. India’s cumulative vaccination coverage has successfully crossed 1.11 crore, reported ANI.UK set to open school from March 8 as Covid lockdown liftsUK Prime Minister Boris Johnson will announce that all schools in England will reopen from March 8, as he outlines how the national coronavirus lockdown will be lifted over the coming months, reports Bloomberg.Biden to hold candle lighting ceremony in memory of Covid-19 victimsUS President Joe Biden will deliver remarks on Monday on the lives lost to the coronavirus pandemic and will hold a moment of silence and candle lighting ceremony at sundown together with the First Lady, as well as Vice President Kamala Harris and her husband, the White House said, reports ANI.Top officials in Hong Kong receive Covid-19 vaccineHong Kong leader Carrie Lam and other government officials received a Covid-19 vaccine Monday as the city begins its inoculation program, reports AP.Testing increases 10 fold at IGI airport for new Covid-19 variantsAs the Union Health Ministry announced the stringent approach to detect new Covid-19 variant and made it mandatory for identified high-risk countries, United Kingdom (UK), Middle East, and Europe, the testing labs at Indira Gandhi International Airport have a monumental task in hand, reports ANI.Vietnam to begin Covid vaccination in March: ReportsVietnam will begin its Covid-19 vaccination programme next month with frontline healthcare staff and the elderly in line for the first doses as the country tackles a new wave of coronavirus infections, state media reported on Monday, reports Reuters.Telangana records 114 new Covid-19 casesTelangana recorded 114 new Covid-19 cases, pushing the total caseload to 2,97,712, while the death toll rose to 1,625 with one more fatality, the state government said on Monday, reports PTI.Arunachal reports no new Covid-19 case since 3 daysArunachal Pradesh did not report any fresh Covid-19 case in the past three days, a senior health official said on Monday, reports PTI.Over 43 million doses of Sinopharm's Covid-19 vaccines used globally: ReportMore than 43 million Covid-19 vaccine doses from China's state-backed China National Pharmaceutical Group (Sinopharm) have been used, including over 34 million administered in the country and the rest overseas, official media said on Sunday, reports Reuters.Maharashtra minister Chhagan Bhujbal tests Covid-19 positiveमाझी कोरोना टेस्ट पॉझिटिव्ह आली आहे. गेल्या दोन तीन दिवसात माझ्या संपर्कात अलेल्या सर्वांनी आपली कोरोना टेस्ट करून घ्यावी.माझी प्रकृती उत्तम असून काळजी करण्याचे कारण नाही.कोरोनाच्या पार्श्वभूमीवर सर्व नागरिकांनी योग्य ती काळजी घ्यावी.मास्क,सॅनिटायझर चा नियमित वापर करा.#COVID19Maharashtra minister Chhagan Bhujbal tweets he has tested positive for Covid-19India's active Covid-19 caseload rises to 150,055India's active Covid-19 caseload rises by 4,421 to 150,055. Recoveries near 10.7 million with 9,695 more patients discharged in last 24 hours.India records 14,199 new Covid-19 cases as tally tops 11 millionIndia records 14,199 new Covid-19 cases as tally reaches 11,005,850. 83 fresh fatalities take death toll to 156,385.Over 49,000 Covid-19 related deaths in US' CaliforniaThe US state of California recorded 408 more Covid-19 related deaths on Sunday, which took its toll due to the viral infection to 49,105, the highest in the country.11 new Covid-19 cases in mainland ChinaChina reports 11 new cases of Covid-19 as tally reaches 89,842. Death toll unchanged at 4,636.Over 11 million vaccine doses administered in India thus far: GovtAccording to the Ministry of health and family welfare's (MoHFW) website, 11,085,173 doses of Covid-19 vaccine have been administered thus far since the drive began on Jan 16.Covid-19 death toll nears 500,000 in the USThe US' death toll due to Covid-19 is at 498,880, the Johns Hopkins University tracker shows. The infection tally is at over 28 million.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-india-world-latest-news-covid-19-death-toll-february-22-2021-101613957665848.html
22-02-2021||India||Atmosphere in Kerala is favourable towards BJP, says V Muraleedharan||Minister of state for external affairs and former Bharatiya Janata Party Kerala president V Muraleedharan speaks to Smriti Kak Ramachandran about the upcoming assembly polls in the state. Edited excerpts :What is the party’s expectation in terms of seats and vote share in the upcoming elections?The vote share was around 15% in 2016, it went up in the Lok Sabha elections and then further up in the local body elections. We are now somewhere around 17%. Generally, in Kerala, BJP’s vote share used to be the highest in the Lok Sabha elections, followed by the local body and then the assembly polls. My expectation is that we will be somewhere between 17 to 20%. I have never predicted the number of seats, but the overall atmosphere in the state is favourable towards BJP.E Sreedharan is in his 80s, is the party expediently using the age bar. His joining is also being compared to the entry of cricketer S Sreesanth, who did not win the Thiruvananthapuram seat.There is a difference between Sreesanth and Sreedharan. In Sreesanth’s case, perhaps we made a mistake because he is basically from Cochin and he wanted to contest the elections from Cochin and suburbs, but was fielded from Trivandrum. That place had no connect with him. The second factor was people look at Sreesanth as a cricketer, but Sreedharan is associated with public service. I’m sure with his experience we will progress further. As for his age, he is still very agile and dynamic.What are the poll planks going to be?People are fed up with corruption, vote bank politics being practised by both the UDF and LDF. Kerala (government) seems to be propagating to the country and the world that they are the best, but in every aspect this government has failed whether it is response to Covid-19, employment or financial management. We will ensure that there is no vote bank politics, no corruption and there is a transparent administration.What plans does BJP have to generate employment in the state?The Union government initiated many activities on that front. The skill development ministry has been authorised to initiate efforts to see what kind of employment can be provided to those who returned back.In the local body polls, the BJP fielded Christian and Muslim candidates. In January, state’s church leaders met Prime Minister Narendra Modi. There is a perception that the BJP is wooing the Christians.The meeting of the Christian leaders with the PM happened after the local body elections. It was sought by them because they wanted to discuss some issues with the PM. For example, the minority scholarship and various other benefits that they felt the Christian community is discriminated (against) and in favour of the Muslims. They wanted to bring this issue before the PM that Christians are not getting their due. The other thing is the problems between the Jacobite and Orthodox factions.From the BJP side, I will say that politically we are in a better position as regards the Christian community compared to the previous years. The suspicion among them that the BJP is against them is over. How far they will support the BJP electorally is a different matter, it depends on the local candidates and various other situations, but I can assure you that BJP’s relationship with the Christian community vis-a-vis Muslims is better. I hope that will reflect in the elections also.Opposition says BJP can bank only on Nair votes.That was an old allegation, which was used to target the BJP that it is an upper caste party. The fact is not so. We have among our senior leaders’ representatives from all communities, Nairs, Ezhavas, our ally is the BDJS.There have been defections from other parties to the BJP in West Bengal? Will Kerala follow suit?At this point in Kerala, we are not looking at people from other parties joining us. We would like to have people with integrity, who have experience of public life and who are efficient to join the BJP. I don’t say that others are not welcome but that is not our focus.The Congress has raked the Sabarimala issue again. Oommen Chandy had written a letter to CM Pinarayi Vijayan last week asking him to approach the SC to expedite a ruling.Last time (2019 polls) when Sabarimala happened, it made a huge impact and I admit that it helped the Congress because people were angry against the Left front. People voted for the Congress but have understood it is no different. After the polls they have not made any effort, now just before the elections they have again raised the issue. Otherwise, the Congress is not in favour of Sabarimala or the majority community. Last time they could have benefited but I don’t think this time they will.Do you see the Congress’ resurgence in the state or is it a contest between BJP and the Left.It is a tri-cornered contest. I won’t say it is completely irrelevant, but the Congress is not on an upswing. It does not have a national leadership and I don’t see any hope of resurrection at the national level, so the new generation feels that BJP is the party that can take the country towards progress and the same will reflect in Kerala as well.Both the Congress and the Left Front have assured that if they win CAA would be blocked.First of all, it is a central law. No state has the discretionary power in implementing or not implementing a central law. This law has nothing to do with Kerala and I don’t think there are people who have come from Pakistan, Bangladesh or Afghanistan and are trying to get citizenship.BJP is seen to be cracking down on any kind of dissent; people are accusing the government of flexing muscle.The farmers’ agitation is being used by some to campaign against India at the international level. A citizen of India is bound to be committed to the Constitution, so when somebody goes against it and the laws of the land… as per the procedures and the criminal procedure law, action will proceed.Why did the government respond to comments of an international singer?The government had to react because it was not an individual effort; it was part of a larger design. If somebody expressed something and kept quiet there is no issue. but when there is a larger design and there are people who are trying to malign the image of the country, it is the responsibility of the government to come out before the international community and say what exactly is the situation. If we don’t do that, we will be failing in our duty to protect the interest of the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/atmosphere-in-kerala-is-favourable-towards-bjp-says-v-muraleedharan-101613957919738.html
22-02-2021||India||Eight booked for spreading ‘false information’ over Unnao case||The Unnao police filed an FIR on Sunday against six people and two news portals for allegedly tweeting false information in connection with the death of two teenage girls.In a press release, the police identified the accused as Nilim Dutta, Abhay Kumar Azad, Suraj Kumar Baudh, Rahul Kumar Diwakar, Nawab Satpal Tanvar and Vijay Ambedkar, along with two news portals. “These individuals claimed that the girls were raped, and their last rites were performed against the will of their family members. This information is false. The post-mortem report has shown that the girls were not raped. Further, their last rites were performed by their family.” Three girls were found in a field with their hands tied on February 17. Two later died of poisoning, while another is undergoing treatment.It added that false information was shared with an intention to spread hatred and communal tension. The accused have been booked under Section 153 (giving provocation with intent to cause riots) and the IT Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eight-booked-for-spreading-false-information-over-unnao-case-101613957511320.html
22-02-2021||India||Rural experience: Fewer legal aid clinics, police personnel||By Gagan Sethi and NupurAs we approach the anniversary of the first Covid-19 lockdown and subsequent migrant crisis it unleashed, it is an opportune time to reflect how rural India — home to almost 400 million migrants and their families — remains under served in all essential pillars of justice delivery: police, prisons, legal aid and judiciary. While some aspects of the crisis such as the availability of food, health services and education received wide coverage, other equally significant ones, like access to justice services, were not. The India Justice Report 2020 offers a glimpse of the wide chasm between urban and rural India that compounded the crisis of migrants who returned to their home states in the aftermath of the lockdown.Many migrants found themselves out of a job, and many of who were forced to return to their villages, left behind unpaid wages. Despite the government’s nudge to employers to pay all workers, we found out that most of 12,000 migrants whose travel to their home states we arranged during the lockdown were not paid their legitimate wages.If the legal aid system had been functional in rural areas it would have certainly been part of their mandate to reach out to the employers who owed the wages thus providing much needed succour to migrants.A unit of legal aid infrastructure in villages is a legal services clinic. Typically, a legal services clinic is required to cater to a reasonable cluster of villages, according to guidelines issued by the National Legal Aid Services Authority (NALSA). These clinics are expected to provide basic legal services and are meant to be the first points of contact for persons seeking legal advice and assistance, helping them to fill up forms to avail government schemes, and to draft representations, among other things.According to IJR, before India entered the lockdown — in March 2020 — there were only 14,159 legal aid clinics for 597,617 villages or on average, one clinic for every 42 villages. Barring Rajasthan and Gujarat, other large states that saw reverse-migration such as Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Madhya Pradesh have nearly 100 or above villages served by a single legal services clinic.Uttar Pradesh has the worst ratio at 520 villages for every clinic, while Rajasthan is at 7 villages per clinic.Bodies such as the District Legal Services Authority which are meant to oversee the legal needs of taluka and block level units in the state were able to come to the assistance of migrants according to NALSA — their district level units with the help of local bodies such as ours, and many others across the country, coordinated the food, transportation, and shelter of 5.7 million people between April and June 2020.It also needs to be noted that only 19,300 people were provided legal representation at the stage of being produced before the court across all the 669 DLSAs in the country, which indicates that their core function was impeded during the pandemic.The good news is that states’ legal aid expenditure (what it gets from the Centre via NALSA and its own expenditure) has increased.As the latest IJR report shows, in the last two years, 14 of 18 large and mid-sized states and five of seven small states have increased their contribution to their legal aid spend. Jharkhand, for instance, increased its share from zero to 59% between 2017-18 and 2019-20. Uttar Pradesh increased its share of expenditure from 20% to 89% in the same duration. West Bengal too showed a steep rise: from 18% to 59%.Among the small states, Goa, Himachal Pradesh, Sikkim and Tripura showed a steep rise in their share of expenditure towards legal aid. This has reflected in rural coverage of legal services, the IJR shows. In the past two years, 22 states and union territories have improved their average coverage of legal services clinics in villages. This has a direct impact on vulnerable sections such as women, children, Dalits and tribal persons.At the moment, while the National Crime Records provides crime data in select cities, it doesn’t share crime figures disaggregated by rural and urban areas. We know from our experience on the ground that crimes, especially those committed against the vulnerable often go unreported, or are not even recorded by local authorities. The sparse availability of institutions like police stations only worsens the situation.As per the IJR, in almost all states, rural police stations cover larger areas than their urban counterparts. In Rajasthan, for instance, the area coverage of a rural police station was nearly 35 times its urban counterpart (695 sq km to 20 sq km). Similarly, in UP, the area served by rural police stations is roughly 16 times that of an urban police station (235 sq km to 16 sq km). One rural police station in West Bengal, covers a population of 250,000 persons, as against the 140,000 persons covered by an urban police station.Urban areas provide better access to state-run helplines for women and child victims of violence. In rural areas, the lack of access of women and children to even mobile phones means that many crimes cannot even be reported to the right authorities. An enhanced presence of legal aid services and police posts would ensure that victims are able to file complaints and seek help and protection.A justice system that was overburdened in normal times has been left overwhelmed by the pandemic, and as a result the most vulnerable among us are in serious peril.This holds especially true for rural areas. The pandemic seems to be on the wane, but now is the time to heed its lessons and improve the availability of justice services across the large swathes of rural India.Faith in rule of law by the common man, after all, is at the core of democracy.Gagan Sethi and Nupur (who only goes by one name) are co-founders of Centre for Social Justice, one of the organisations involved in bringing out the India Justice Report 2020. Released by Tata Trusts, IJR examines the state of justice delivery across prisons, judiciary, legal aid and police. The views expressed are personal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rural-experience-fewer-legal-aid-clinics-police-personnel-101613956331610.html
22-02-2021||India||Disengagement process in east Ladakh over, says Rajnath||Union defence minister Rajnath Singh on Sunday said that the disengagement process between India and China is complete “after nine rounds of military and diplomatic talks.”While speaking at the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s youth conference in Salem district in poll-bound Tamil Nadu, Singh said: “As defence minister I have to tell you about what is happening in the India-China standoff.”He added: “After nine rounds of talks, a scenario favourable to us has happened. The Congress alleges that we have ceded the Indian territory but as long I’ve my blood and life in this body, we will never cede even an inch to any country. The country will not allow any ‘unilateral action’ on our border by anyone. We will not keep quiet. After nine rounds of diplomatic and military talks, disengagement is complete.”Also Read | India, China to fix pending LAC issues in 'steady manner', says joint statementThe standoff between the neighbouring countries erupted last May and witnessed the deployment of 50,000 troops each from both sides. Senior military commanders of the Indian army and the China’s People’s Liberation Army (PLA) have held several rounds of meetings in eastern Ladakh to discuss disengagement of their troops along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC).“I want to give you the confidence that under Prime Minister Narendra Modi India unity, territorial integrity, sovereignty will never be compromised,” Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/disengagement-process-in-east-ladakh-over-says-rajnath-101613954942518.html
22-02-2021||India||BJP resolution lauds agri laws, Covid fight||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Sunday passed a political resolution hailing the passage of the new agriculture laws, which it said are aimed at improving the lot of farmers and increasing their income even as the Opposition has rallied around an agitation demanding the legislation’s repeal.The resolution, passed at the end of a daylong national office bearers’ meeting addressed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, also praised the Union government’s response to the Covid pandemic, its economic management amid a global slump and efforts at ensuring the passage of new farm and labour laws.The resolution also made a pointed reference to the India-China standoff along the LAC and said, “India will not let any expansionist strategy succeed on its borders. Under the leadership of PM Modi, India has proved this at every given opportunity.”Also Read | BKU Ugrahan appeals to Punjab farmers to reach Delhi border in large numbers for February 27 rallyEarlier, addressing the national officer bearers and state unit presidents, Modi said the party’s mission and organisation were not only aimed at securing power but at ensuring development for all.National general secretary Bhupendra Yadav told the media, “He (the PM) said there is a positive mood in the country, so work should be undertaken keeping in mind the mantra of nation first.”The party commended the government’s Covid-19 response, and in the resolution said while the world was “speculating over how India with its vast population and limited health care infrastructure” would face the challenge, it can be “said with pride that India not only defeated Covid under the able, sensitive, committed and visionary leadership of Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi, but also infused in all its citizens the confidence to build an ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’.”While the Opposition had questioned the nationwide lockdown announced on March 24 and accused the government of announcing it without any preparation, the resolution referred to the government’s call as a “decision that will be remembered in history as the prime example of the sensitivity of a welfare government committed to public good.”The resolution also made a specific mention of the Gareeb Kalyan package of ₹1.70 lakh crore announced within 48 hours of the imposition of the lockdown, efforts made to develop indigenous vaccines, and the government’s resolve of building an Atmanirbhar Bharat (self-reliant India).The passage of the agriculture laws, drafting of the national education policy, merger of public sector banks, and curbs on financial irregularities were described as reformative steps undertaken by the government.The BJP, gearing up for electoral battles in West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Assam and Puducherry, blamed the Congress and the Left parties of “trying to mislead the farmers about the farm laws”.The party’s performances in local body elections in a clutch of states and the Bihar victory were hailed.A specific reference was made to the local elections in Jammu and Kashmir. “…In the first local elections held after the removal of Article 370 it was democracy that won. The first District Development Council elections held in J&K shattered many myths. Ignoring terrorists and separatists, people fearlessly reposed faith in democracy,” the resolution said.The meeting was attended by national office bearers, state unit presidents, in-charges of election-bound states and national and state general secretaries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-resolution-lauds-agri-laws-covid-fight-101613953911657.html
22-02-2021||India||Cyber security brass steps in as experts flag delay in fixing lapses||India’s top cybersecurity officials stepped in as a group of researchers said agencies were slow in fixing a slew of critical vulnerabilities pointed out over two weeks ago, which has potentially created a situation where attackers could access sensitive information and carry out more disruptive operations against government servers.Issues were found in dozens of government-run web services, more than half of which belonged to different state governments. Several of them had multiple issues, including exposed credentials that would allow someone unauthorised access, leaks of sensitive files and the existence of known bugs which, if exploited, could lead to deeper access, the researchers told HT.“Remedial actions have been taken by NCIIPC (National Critical Information Infrastructure Protection Centre) and Cert-IN (Indian Computer Emergency Response Team)… NCIIPC handles only the Critical Information Infrastructure issues. In this case the balance pertained to other states and departments that were immediately informed by Cert-IN. It is likely that some action may be pending by users at state levels which we are checking,” National Cyber Security Coordinator (NCSC) Lt Gen Rajesh Pant told HT on Sunday.Also Read | Ex-defence personnel hit by phishing attackThe remark by the official came as members of his team opened communications with the researchers who found the vulnerabilities, according to a person aware of the development, asking not to be named. The researchers – part of a collective that calls itself Sakura Samurai -- said they reached out to the NCIIPC in the first few days of February but most of the issues they flagged were unresolved for over two weeks.“You need to fix this. I’ve went through our report and not even 1/8 of these Critical Vulnerabilities are fixed, weeks later. Do the Indian Citizens know that they are exposed? They have the right to be protected. This isn’t fluff. Fixing this is Critical,” said Sakura Samurai’s John Jackson, in a series of tweets addressed to NCIIPC on February 19.Late on Saturday, Jackson published a blog with an overview of the vulnerabilities that, without citing specifics, mentioned the discovery of 35 instances of credentials pairs, 3 instances of sensitive files, over 13,000 personally identifiable information instances, dozens of police FIRs.Additionally, they discovered multiple vulnerabilities that could be chained to potentially compromise extremely sensitive government systems.In the blog, Jackson said they tested gov.in systems for vulnerabilities as part of the NCIIPC’s Responsible Vulnerability Disclosure Program (RVDP), a practice followed world over in which companies and countries allow developers, researchers and security professionals to report issues that could pose a risk to information security.On Sunday, after backchannel lines were opened to the NCSC, the official’s team escalated the incident to the respective agencies, according to a person aware of developments who asked not to be identified. Cert-IN did not respond to requests for a comment to HT.Experts said the incident highlights the need to improve coordination on such issues.“Vulnerability management is a complex science. No government gets it right. Transparency in disclosure and swiftness of response become crucial then. The ‘coordination’ part of the National Cyber Coordination Centre needs a major reboot,” said Pukhraj Singh, a cyber threats analyst, while suggesting that manual notification and assessment protocols be automated.“We need not wait for a catastrophe like the SolarWinds attack to make us realise how our cyber vulnerabilities could set back our national security by decades,” he added.Concerns about response times were also flagged by an Indian researcher, who found a trove of data relating to Covid-19 test results of people in a particular state.The issue “is resulting in the leakage of lakhs of Covid test reports. These include sensitive information like name, age, residence address exact date of sample testing, etc,” said Sourajeet Majumder. Majumder flagged the issue to Cert-IN on February 10 but the issue was yet to be fixed. HT is not identifying the state in order to minimise the risk of the information being targeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyber-security-brass-steps-in-as-experts-flag-delay-in-fixing-lapses-101613943157880.html
22-02-2021||India||India may turn to Iran, Venezuela for oil imports||India may make diplomatic efforts to organise oil-consuming countries against the Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries and its allies (OPEC+) as producers keep crude prices artificially high by restricting supply, and also plans to resume import of cheaper energy from countries such as Iran and Venezuela to counter the oil cartel, two officials said.Domestic fuel prices have spiked because of rising energy demand after rapid recovery of major economies from the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic, but the oil cartel continues to restrict supply, which is a major concern for New Delhi, they said on condition of anonymity.“The current crisis is artificially created by oil producers. Diplomatic efforts are on to ease the supply situation,” one of the officials said. Retail prices of petrol and diesel in India jumped by ₹3.63 per litre and ₹3.84 a litre, respectively, in just 12 days since February 8.Also Read | Why are prices of petrol and diesel increasing? Petroleum minister explainsIndia has already requested OPEC and its allies, including Russia (together known as OPEC+) to immediately restore the output that was substantially cut to stabilise crude prices when the Covid-19 pandemic began raging and most of the global economies were under lockdowns, the officials said.The cartel, OPEC+, on April 12 last year announced a 9.7 million barrel per day cut in oil output, a 10th of the global output, from May 1, 2020, but did not adhere to the planned restoration of the supply reduction.“India can raise this matter at various forums such as Quad, a plurilateral platform involving the US, Japan, India and Australia. With the easing of tension at the border, New Delhi may also engage Beijing to have a common voice of world’s four-five major oil consumers. South Korea could also be an ally on this matter of common interest,” one official quoted above said. India is the third biggest oil consumer in the world after the US and China.When OPEC+ was in crisis, India supported its output cut strategy to stabilise international oil prices that had plummeted below $20 a barrel. Benchmark crude Brent had plunged sharply to $19.33 per barrel on April 21, 2020. “Now that crude prices have jumped by over 200%, they should restore the supply immediately. India has already raised this issue at an international forum on Wednesday,” he said. Brent crude was at $64.34 a barrel on that day (February 17, 2021) and it closed at $62.91 per barrel on Friday.Addressing the 11th The International Energy Agency (IEA)-International Energy Forum (IEF)-OPEC Outlook Symposium on February 17, petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan asked producers to ease the supply situation and salvage oil-consuming countries from an unprecedented jump in fuel prices.“The key producing countries have not only revised the production cuts over and above the previously announced levels, but also added additional voluntary cuts. I had supported the joint decision by major oil-producing countries to cut oil production in April last year... Time has come once again for allowing the collective interests of both producing and consuming countries to be promoted,” Pradhan said.SC Sharma, an energy expert and former officer on special duty at the erstwhile Planning Commission, said restricted supplies and production cuts by oil exporting countries are some of the major reasons for high oil prices. “It is believed that a gradual production increase was part of the agenda with 0.5 million barrels per day in the 4th January 2021 meeting of OPEC. However, subsequent to the meeting, Saudi Arabia announced 1 million barrels per day of voluntary oil production cuts,” he said. “There is a need to join hands with major oil importing nations such as China, India, Japan and Korea to look for a workable solution so that economic recoveries are smooth with adequate supply of oil by OPEC+ countries,” he added.The officials mentioned above said India can resume supply of cheaper oil from Iran from a virtual zero since 2019, and also augment imports from Venezuela. “The import curbs were imposed under pressure from the Trump government. Now, either the US will help to mitigate our energy crisis or we will act in the interest of our nation,” a second official said.Iran is expected to be the biggest beneficiary of change in the presidency that could not only help India to start its oil imports from Iran, but also boost its exports to Tehran.India, which imports more than 80% of the crude it processes, imported about 23.5 million tonne of Iranian crude, nearly a 10th of its requirement, in 2018-19 on lucrative terms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-may-turn-to-iran-venezuela-for-oil-imports-101613942885314.html
22-02-2021||India||‘Nothing short of extortion’: Sonia to PM||Congress president Sonia Gandhi took on the Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government over the fuel price hike issue on Sunday, as the chorus against costlier petrol and diesel grew across the country. In a sharply worded letter, Gandhi expressed her “anguish & deep distress regarding the spiralling fuel & gas prices”.“On one hand, India is witnessing systematic erosion of jobs, wages and household income. The middle class and those at the margins of our society are struggling. These challenges have been compounded by run-away inflation and an unprecedented rise in prices of almost all household items and essential commodities,” Gandhi said in a letter to the PM.For over 10 days, the prices of petrol and diesel have been increasing. In Mumbai, petrol is at an all-time high of ₹97 a litre, while diesel crossed the ₹88 mark. This is the second time Gandhi has launched a salvo against the government regarding the steep spike in fuel prices. On January 7, she slammed the government for trying to offset the losses incurred by it during the Covid-19 crisis. “Today, the crude oil price is $50.96 per barrel. That is barely ₹23.43 per litre. Still, diesel is priced at ₹74.38, while petrol costs ₹84.30,” Gandhi had said. “In the last 73 years, fuel has never been more expensive.”Also Read | 'Govts elected to ease burden of people': Sonia Gandhi to PM on fuel price hikeAgain on Sunday, Gandhi attacked the government for “profiteering off of people’s misery & suffering” by raising the price of fuel despite crude oil prices being lower than those during the UPA regime.“Fuel prices are at an historic and unsustainable high. In fact, petrol has breached the ₹100/litre mark in many parts of the country. The surging price of diesel has added to the escalating woes of millions of farmers. What baffles most citizens, is that these prices have been increased despite moderate prices of international crude oil. To put it in context, the crude oil price is nearly half of what it was during the UPA Government’s tenure. Therefore, your Government’s act of raising prices (continuously for 12 days till February 20th) is little less than a brazen act of profiteering,” Gandhi said. She added that the government had increased excise duty on diesel by 820% and on petrol by 258%.“Your Government has been unreasonably over-zealous in levying excessive excise duty on Petrol and Diesel, i.e., ₹33 on every litre of Petrol and ₹32 on every litre of Diesel, which is higher than the base price of these fuels,” she said.“This is nothing short of extortion to cover up economic mismanagement. As the principal party in opposition, I urge upon you to follow ‘Raj Dharma’ and reduce fuel prices by partially rolling back excise duty,” Gandhi added.The government has defended the price hike saying that the international market has reduced fuel production leading to the spike in rates.“There are two main reasons behind the fuel price rise. International market has reduced fuel production and manufacturing countries are producing less fuel to gain more profit. This is making the consumer countries suffer,” petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nothing-short-of-extortion-sonia-to-pm-101613942340500.html
22-02-2021||India||India, China to fix pending LAC issues in 'steady manner', says joint statement||At a marathon 16-hour meeting between senior commanders on Saturday, the Indian and Chinese armies agreed to resolve outstanding issues at friction points on the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC) in a “steady and orderly” manner; the parties were unanimous that the Pangong Tso disengagement provided “a good basis” for resolving pending problems and decided to take forward the military dialogue to stabilise the ground situation in eastern Ladakh, said a joint statement issued in New Delhi and Beijing on Sunday.The two sides said they had a “candid and in-depth exchange of views” on the outstanding issues in the Ladakh sector during the tenth round of military talks held at Moldo on the Chinese side of the LAC at which both sides agreed to push for a “mutually acceptable resolution” of the remaining issues “in a steady and orderly manner,” the statement said. But the statement made no mention of the issues that are still to be resolved to ease tensions along the LAC.The corps commander-ranked officers of the two armies on Saturday discussed the roadmap for further disengagement of their troops at friction points on the LAC, with the talks taking place after the completion of the first round of disengagement in the Pangong Tso sector.The talks began at 10 am on Saturday and went on till 2 am on Sunday. Outstanding problems with the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) at Depsang, Hot Springs and Gogra - friction points on the LAC - were discussed during the talks.“The two sides agreed to follow the important consensus of their state leaders, continue their communication and dialogue, stabilise and control the situation on the ground, (and) push for a mutually acceptable resolution of the remaining issues…, so as to jointly maintain peace and tranquillity in the border areas,” the statement said.India and China were of the view that the successful completion of disengagement in the Pangong Tso sector would help them make progress in other areas too. “The two sides positively appraised the smooth completion of disengagement of frontline troops in the Pangong Lake area, noting that it was a significant step forward that provided a good basis for resolution of other remaining issues,” the statement added.The proposals discussed during the talks to normalise the border situation will be put up by both sides before their higher authorities in order to finalise the future course of disengagement, said people familiar with the process, speaking on the condition of anonymity. Disengagement at Gogra and Hot Springs will be easier to pursue than resolving the problems at Depsang, said an official cited above. He added that some issues in Demchok also needed to be sorted out but that would not be complicated.The tone of the joint statement is positive, but it also indicates that a quick resolution of outstanding issues may not be possible, said former Northern Army commander Lieutenant General DS Hooda (retd).“Depsang, in particular, is tricky because of its strategic value and the vast difference in the LAC perception of the two sides. Hopefully, the success of Pangong Tso can provide an impetus to resolving issues in other areas though we should be patient. Meanwhile, declarations of victory or defeat should be avoided as it can complicate discussions on the ground,” Hooda said.PLA’s deployments in Depsang have hindered access of Indian soldiers to Patrolling Points (PP) 10, 11, 11-A, 12 and 13, as previously reported by Hindustan Times.The Indian Army’s patrolling activity has also been affected in Gogra and Hot Springs, where rival troops are forward deployed and where skeletal disengagement took place last year, but the gains could not be consolidated.The India-China border standoff began last May and saw both sides deploy 50,000 troops each in the Ladakh theatre along with advanced weaponry.The Pangong disengagement took place on strategic heights on both banks of the lake, and saw the two armies pull back their frontline troops, tanks, infantry combat vehicles (ICVs) and artillery guns under an agreement reached earlier this month.The disengagement will be phased, coordinated and verified at all friction points. The first round of disengagement at Pangong Tso involved pulling back troops deployed eyeball-to-eyeball on the Finger 4 ridgeline at heights of almost 18,000 feet as well as withdrawing soldiers holding positions on the Kailash range on the south bank.On the north bank, PLA retreated to its base east of Finger 8, while the Indian Army moved back to its position near Finger 3. Under the disengagement agreement, neither side will patrol the contested areas between Fingers 4 and 8 until an agreement is reached through future talks.India’s bold moves on the south bank of Pangong Tso last August boosted the army’s bargaining power during military talks and eventually led to an agreement on disengagement. The Indian Army occupied a series of heights to prevent the PLA from grabbing Indian territory on the south bank in a stealthy midnight move on August 29, 2020.The Indian Army followed this up by rushing its front-line tanks and ICVs to strategic heights held by its soldiers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indiachina-military-talks-end-next-round-of-ladakh-deescalation-discussed-101613916091198.html
22-02-2021||India||Why are prices of petrol and diesel increasing? Petroleum minister explains||India has urged the OPEC (Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries) and OPEC plus countries to not go for a production cut as that is impacting the fuel price in India, Union petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan said on Sunday."There are two main reasons behind the fuel price rise. International market has reduced fuel production and manufacturing countries are producing less fuel to gain more profit. This is making the consumer countries suffer," the minister said.West Bengal govt reduces tax by Re 1 per litre on petrol, dieselIn April last year, India had supported the decision of the major oil-producing countries to cut production as there was a sharp fall in demand amid Covid-19 pandemic.Also Watch | How to control soaring petrol & diesel prices? Nirmala Sitharaman answersFor over 10 days, the prices of petrol and diesel are increasing. In Mumbai, petrol is at an all-time high of ₹97 per litre, while diesel rate crossed ₹88-mark.Congress and other opposition parties have been protesting against the Centre for the rising fuel prices while the Centre has said it alone has little role behind the astronomical rise in the price. "It’s a very vexatious issue in which no answer except for reducing the price (of fuel) will convince anyone. I know I am trading on an area where whatever I may say to bring the reality into picture will only sound like I’m obfuscating, I’m avoiding the answer, I am shifting the blame…," finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said on Saturday.Two poll-bound states, Assam and West Bengal, have cut fuel prices by lowering the taxes that state governments levy on fuel prices. The Assam government has reduced the prices of petrol and diesel by ₹5 per litre. The West Bengal government on Sunday announced a reduction of tax by ₹1 per litre on petrol and diesel.Recently in Parliament, the minister said that blaming the Centre for the price rise is wrong as states too have increased VAT on fuel.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fuel-price-rise-have-urged-opec-countries-says-minister-dharmendra-pradhan-101613908773297.html
22-02-2021||India||Maharashtra’s Amaravati district to be under 1-week lockdown starting Monday amid recent surge in Covid cases||Amaravati in Maharashtra will be under one-week lockdown in the wake of a surge in the number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases, the state government announced on Sunday. “One-week complete lockdown will remain in force in Amravati district excluding Achalpur city, beginning 8 pm tomorrow,” news agency ANI quoted Maharashtra’s guardian minister Yashomati Thakur as saying.Essential services will be allowed to function during the lockdown, Thakur added.Amravati has seen the sharpest spike in Covid-19 cases across Maharashtra this week. The district recorded the second highest number of cases (806) after the capital city of Mumbai - which saw its tally go up by 897 cases on Saturday, the sharpest spike after November 29.The Akola division- which comprises of Amravati district and Amravati municipal corporation- added 1,726 new cases and 12 more related deaths on Saturday which pushed the overall tally and death toll of the division to 84,630 and 1,691 respectively.Also Read| Classes in schools, colleges suspended, night restrictions return in PuneThe number of Covid-19 cases in Amravati had jumped from 82 on February 16 to 230 on February 17, prompting authorities to impose a weekend lockdown which was supposed to end at 8 pm on Monday. District collector Shailesh Naval had on Friday appealed to the residents to follow all Covid- related protocols failing which strict action would be taken.Earlier in the day, Maharashtra’s relief and rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar said that the state government is considering imposing a night curfew in districts with high prevalence of infection.Maharashtra: One-week complete lockdown to remain in force in Amravati district excluding Achalpur city, says Guardian Minister Yashomati Thakur; essential services permitted.“The coronavirus cases are increasing on a daily basis in several districts of Maharashtra. Due to this, an order to enforce the coronavirus norms has been given to all district magistrates. They have also been authorised to take decisions in view of the pandemic situation,” Wadettiwar added.Maharashtra on Saturday had added more than 6,000 cases (6,281 to be exact) for the second consecutive day. The caseload is nearing 2.1 million and 51,753 people have died till now. Maharashtra continues to remain the worst hit states from the pandemic across India along with Karnataka and Kerala. Amid the upward trend in the overall situation in the state, Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had once again warned residents of another lockdown if they fail to follow all regulations imposed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtras-amaravati-district-to-be-under-1-week-lockdown-starting-monday-101613907023987.html
22-02-2021||Today's||India needs a new elite compact||The balance of power in electoral democracies rests on a basic assumption — the ruling party and the Opposition will compete for power in a healthy manner. While it is natural that there will be areas of disagreement, democracy is also contingent on both sides extending the maximum possible cooperation to find political solutions.To prevent paralysis arising out of political confrontations, a set of formal and informal mechanisms govern the framework of negotiated settlements. The formal institutional arrangements disperse power towards a range of political actors, and informal norms, including an elite compact, ensure the smooth functioning of the political system. However, a deep fracture has emerged at the heart of our politics — with a breakdown of formal and informal mechanisms. The ongoing farm protests, the latest outburst of civil society unrest, are but the inevitable manifestation of this fundamental rupture. It is both a reflection of, and a result of, the deep crisis our political parties are facing.Why are both sides indulging in a game of brinksmanship, which will hurt them as well as India’s future prospects?In the past, politicians from Opposition benches could reach out to friends in the ruling coalitions to find solutions to an emerging political crisis (even to seek favours). And they also reciprocated while being in the treasury benches. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), under Narendra Modi, however, has deeply internalised that all institutions were under the tight grip of Congress party sympathisers (and some regional elites in the states), and continued to serve the interest of these parties even when they were not in power. With its mandate, the ruling dispensation believes that the only way to create a “new India” is to weed out the old. The Opposition’s electoral weakness has also reduced the incentives for cooperation. This has led to a breakdown in the informal power-sharing arrangements of the past, and the basic tenets of new order have not been established. This trust deficit is a result of both sides feeling they are under siege. The government believes an Opposition cabal continuously schemes and attacks it, while the Opposition suspects that the State is using all its might to squeeze it further. Both sides have now resorted to creating a web of misinformation and frequently indulge in whataboutery. For example, any honest analysis would suggest that the combined effect of these laws will neither be revolutionary nor disastrous for farmers and Indian agriculture. But in this hyper-mediatised age, both sides are playing to the gallery have exaggerated the effects, leaving no room for genuine conversation.In the absence of a new elite compact that helps in the constitution of shared legitimacy of the system, the object of political discourse is reduced to delegitimising your rival. The government portrays any disagreement with it as to serve the vested interests of old elites, and often dissent gets labelled as anti-national. The Opposition, on the other hand, in tandem with civil society actors, portrays Modi, arguably one of the most popular politicians of post-independent India, as nothing but an agent of a couple of business houses.This breakdown has jeopardised the role of political parties in three critical domains — as a channel of voicing grievances, as vehicles of political mobility, and as an interest-group coalition to forge a political settlement.The BJP’s continuous attack on Opposition parties as serving vested interests and its attempt to decimate electoral challengers has weakened the Opposition’s capacity to intervene on behalf of any social and political grievances. All sorts of non-party actors are rushing in to fill the emerging vacuum. Public trust in political parties is likely to further decline as they are missing in these crucial times. This, in turn, will create greater hurdles to represent interest groups and reach negotiated settlements in moments of political confrontation. Going forward, if the fracture continues, India will witness more protests by non-party actors. It’s a feature of the emerging system, not a bug that can be easily removed.The role of political leadership becomes more critical, especially when the staying power of the State is higher. Many may argue that these non-party protests act as a springboard for new political leadership to emerge from the ground. This is easier said than done. The likes of Jignesh Mevani, Hardik Patel, Kanhaiya Kumar, Chandrasekhar Azad, among others, despite leading large movements, have not, yet, shown signs of significant political influence or acumen.Unlike seasoned politicians, non-party activists often overestimate the strength of their movements and miscalculate when to retreat and when to advance. For example, protesting groups could have considered the government’s proposal to stay these laws for 18 months as a moment of victory. However, their refusal to negotiate the deal was likely driven by the fear that they may be touted as “sold” by more radical activists within the movement.No regime can govern a vast and diverse country such as India without taking social, political, and economic elites on board. This is not to suggest that the State serves elite interests, but as these elites represent divergent views, a political settlement becomes necessary for governance. India needs a new elite compact and Prime Minister Narendra Modi must create the space for the emergence of its new order.Rahul Verma is a fellow, Centre for Policy Research (CPR), New DelhiThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/india-needs-a-new-elite-compact-101614006573795.html
22-02-2021||Today's||Punjab’s history has cautionary lessons for New Delhi, farm unions||From the 1980s through the mid-1990s, India pushed back the secessionist Khalistani thrust on the strength of three factors — creative diplomacy, a resolute security response and an accommodative, albeit belated, political outreach. The strategy worked because unlike in Kashmir, the insurgency’s external backer, Pakistan, had no historical-territorial claim to India’s side of the Punjab.The road to peace was as arduous as it was bloody. The late Arjun Singh, as the state’s governor, midwifed the Punjab accord between Rajiv Gandhi and HS Longowal, but it couldn’t prove to be the antidote it was meant to be. The pact, nevertheless, set the stage for the 1985 assembly elections. Longowal was assassinated during the campaign, with the slain leader’s confidante, SS Barnala becoming chief minister (CM). The violence that continued unabated under the new incumbent took a deeper communal overtone, rendering governance dysfunctional and President’s Rule inevitable. The state’s walk to normalcy cost another election and a political assassination. In 1995, Congress CM Beant Singh was killed by a suicide bomber. In tandem with the doughty police chief, KPS Gill, he was rooting out militancy from the state. Also killed in the intervening period (1990) was Balwant Singh. Besides Longowal and Barnala, he constituted the Akali trinity that had initialed the Punjab accord. The flashback to the insurgency’s peak period holds lessons for New Delhi. The satyagraha template the farm unions so assiduously constructed undoubtedly lay asunder after the Republic Day mayhem. But that cannot be the basis for tarring all opponents of the reform legislations as votaries of Khalistan. That cause, if it ever was one, was defeated in the 1990s. Its vestiges survived on the margins of the diasporic Sikh identity, not as much in the community’s mainstream.The protests have a national security dimension. It’s imperative, however, for official India to be conscious of the perils of conflating the inveterate separatist goals with those of the wider farm protests. The political establishment has to be mindful of the proclivity of its probe agencies to over-hype the Khalistani threat to discredit the broader agitation.Punjab’s history dictates that the effort should be to isolate and punish miscreants. Blaming everyone for the misdeeds of motley groups could foment social divides, possibly fetching the popularly discarded K-word a wider communal-political traction. Synonymous words of caution could be of as much use for the farm unions. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha’s hydra-headed construct, and the maximalist position it has against the reforms, made talks with the government unwieldy and the outcome difficult. How? Even while talking from a position of strength in multiple sessions before the Red Fort bedlam, a consensus on exploring some middle-ground with the Centre seemed impossible. The dialogue dynamics ran counter to the established rules of engagement. A veteran of many complex negotiations, former national security adviser, JN Dixit, would often say that for a deal to happen and get executed, one has to give the other side a stake to make it work. That’s deeply instructive for the farmers. The government, for its part, must appreciate the opposite side’s predicament. Given the multiplicity of the unions, the farmers had engaged with it in a complicated, multilateral format. The impasse lingered also because the farmers were less than diplomatic and the government short on statesmanship. The latter’s offer of placing the laws on hold for 18 months and talk through a bipartisan panel came when the trust levels between them had touched the nadir. On the flip side, the Centre’s offer that seemed a “good bargain” to many adherents of the farm cause fell afoul of the Morcha because its leaders lacked the mandate to accept anything short of a repeal of the laws.If the stalemate continues, there is a grave risk of the saner talking heads losing control to potentially militant elements. The farmers must not return defeated to their villages. For a bumper crop of peace, a way has to be found to make them look the winners. The government must think hard about how to steal a victory in defeat, for that’ll be statesmanship.vinodsharma@hindustantimes.comThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/punjabs-history-has-cautionary-lessons-for-new-delhi-farm-unions-101614006572427.html
22-02-2021||Today's||In a post-Covid world, a new toolkit for governments||A post-Covid-19 world of increased volatility, social and economic tensions, but also one of huge opportunity from technology, is hurtling towards us. Businesses are urgently redefining their strategies to compete in this new era where the growth of the “digital” collides with the slowdown of the “physical”.But what about governments? Surely, if businesses and supply chains are transforming, economic policymaking and governance models cannot remain unchanged. Economic policies of the 20th century were for a world of “physical” supply chains. In the last few decades, China was the biggest beneficiary of such industrial strategies. In the 21st century, the value pools in every industry are shifting from the physical to the digital (for instance, mobility services or even music streaming in a car). Policymakers must take into account this rapid growth of digital solutions and services. In terms of India’s economic strategies, while industrial policy should continue to target a greater share in global physical supply chains, India should not miss the bus to build a competitive position in the new global digital value chains. What does this mean for governments? Let’s take the example of a tractor manufacturer who wants to shift from selling a product to selling a digital farm solution to farmers to improve their profits. To do this, the manufacturer has to integrate data that measures performance factors such as soil conditions, machine performance, depth of planting with external data on inputs, crop prices and weather into an artificial intelligence (AI) algorithm, which allows the farmer to make considered economic choices. To enable India and its firms to be globally competitive in digital solutions and services, policies to improve infrastructure and regulatory costs or even innovation capability will not be enough. India needs policies that aggressively build an equally competitive data and digital infrastructure, AI/machine learning (ML) capabilities, with supportive policies on data-sharing and privacy. India will need many more data scientists, analysts and AI/ML programmers.Another idea from businesses that we find fascinating for governments is the emergence of ecosystems as platforms to solve customer problems. The rationale is simple. Traditional supply chains do not possess all the capabilities to solve fast-changing and complex customer needs. An ecosystem of partners with different skills, using shared digital architecture and data, can do that. For example, tractor manufacturers cannot offer digital solutions to the farmer. They need an ecosystem of partners who offer different parts of the solution — from pricing analysis to weather forecasts and drone-based soil analysis. Governments face a similar challenge of the complex needs of people. They can, therefore, adopt this innovative business model.However, to do that, they must overcome the cultural challenge posed by the “rules of engagement” for business ecosystems. Ecosystems are more open and collaborative (ranging from completely open such as Wikipedia or semi-open such as an e-marketplace) compared to a “closed” system (controlled by one entity in terms of data flows and transactions). They have a greater number of participants, more diversity and limited/no hierarchy, all connected digitally, with a common objective to deliver customer value. They operate with an open and win-win mindset. Can governments build public ecosystems which harness skills and capabilities inside and outside governments, enabled by digital infrastructure and data-sharing and appropriate public policy, in a culture of openness and collaboration? The last idea draws upon two radical organisational innovations adopted by leading-edge companies. The first is the concept of agile teams, in a move away from traditional efficiency-driven hierarchical and siloed organisations. Agile is both a philosophy and a way to deliver value. Agile teams are focused, non-hierarchical, cross-functional and outcome-driven. Outputs are clearly defined, measurable and delivered in “sprints”, ie, in short periods. There are no reports sent from one silo to another, everyone sits in a room, meetings are short, standing, and participative. There is no place to “hide”. The second is the creation of an internal, dynamic talent market. Desired outcomes are broken into projects and open for people to apply, even external talent, selectively. Those best skilled and qualified are selected, not the most experienced or senior-most. In this talent marketplace, continuous skill upgradation is more important than the years of service and position. While both are radical ideas especially for a hierarchical bureaucracy, they will be increasingly important to deliver a better outcome. As the post-Covid world unfolds, businesses are deploying a new playbook to compete and thrive. Governments also need to design and deploy one, if they want to better serve the demanding needs of their people in the 21st century.Amitabh Kant is CEO, Niti Aayog and Arindam Bhattacharya is senior partner, BCG IndiaThis article been influenced by Beyond Great: 9 Strategies for Thriving in an Era of Social Tension, Economic Nationalism and Technological RevolutionThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/in-a-post-covid-world-a-new-toolkit-for-governments-101614006568859.html
22-02-2021||Today's||The Sasikala factor in Tamil Nadu politics||Even a month ago, the general consensus among the political class in Tamil Nadu about VK Sasikala, the one-time aide to late All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) supremo J Jayalalithaa, was that she was a spent force.Having emerged only in January from a four-year prison term handed to her in a disproportionate assets case, Chinamma, (aunt) as her supporters fondly call her – they refer to Jayalalithaa as Amma (mother) – was seen at best an inconvenience to the EPS-OPS combine that controls Tamil Nadu’s ruling party.Edapaddi Palanswami (EPS), a one-time Sasikala loyalist whom she had handpicked to be the CM in the power struggle following the demise of Jayalalithaa in December 2016, deserted her to reconcile with his one-time bête noire O Pannerselvam (OPS) and seize control of the party from which she was later expelled.After having failed to unseat the duo of chief minister EPS and deputy chief minister OPS, Sasikala’s nephew TTV Dhinakaran started the Amma Makkal Munnettra Kazagamin (AMMK) in March 2018, hoping to attract the AIADMK vote base, but failed miserably both in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls and the by-polls to 22 assembly seats.With Sasikala in jail in Bengaluru and the AMMK floundering directionlessly, it was natural to assume that she had become an inconsequential player in Tamil Nadu politics.Yet, if there is one eternal truism in Indian politics, it is this: never write off anyone. The reception Sasikala received on the way to Chennai from Bengaluru – the 300-kilometre journey from Bengaluru to Chennai took 23 hours and was converted into a show of strength – with massive crowds all along the route to greet her, has forced a rethink in the political class, especially the ruling AIADMK.While Sasikala herself is not eligible to contest the polls for the next six years, she has started quietly meeting several leaders of the ruling party. Several of the legislators and even ministers owe their party tickets and assembly seats to Chinamma.Even during Jayalalithaa’s reign at the helm of party affairs, Sasikala is said to have played a key role in determining who gets the party nominations in elections. Such was the influence that Sasikala and her family wielded within the AIADMK at one time, that it was dubbed the Mannargudi Mafia by critics.The nomenclature referred to the Sasikala family’s place of origin in the southern TN district of Tiruvarur and their alleged corruption.Sasikala is now readying herself to play the role of the wronged woman, betrayed by those to whom she entrusted the party and the MG Ramachandran – Jayalalithaa legacy to. Her supporters are reminding the AIADMK cadre of the sacrifices she has made by going to jail in a case in which Jayalalithaa was co-accused and would have been sentenced, too, if not for her untimely death.Sasikala has already approached the courts on her removal as general secretary of the party. The fight is not only over the post but also on who controls the ubiquitous and popular rettai ellai (two leaves) symbol of the AIADMK. Chinamma is already moving around in a car carrying the AIADMK flag despite protests by the current dispensation that controls the party.The influential Thevar (also known as Mukkulathor) community to which Sasikala belongs is concentrated in the southern and central parts of TN and have been traditional supporters of the AIADMK. While deputy chief minister OPS is also a Thevar, any division of the community’s traditional AIADMK votes by Sasikala would be a cause of concern for the ruling party.Her moves would be closely watched not only by the EPS-OPS-controlled AIADMK but also by its ally Bharatiya Janata Party.It is no secret that BJP played a key backroom role in the EPS-OPS patch-up and ensured the survival of the government for the last four years. The saffron party, while harbouring ambitions of its own growth in Tamil Nadu, would for the present be happy to ensure that the AIADMK-BJP combine comes to power in the state.The opposition Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK)-led front, which includes Congress and which won 37 of the 39 Lok Sabha seats in Tamil Nadu, would of course be hoping that Sasikala divides the AIADMK votes and an internecine battle consumes the ruling party.The opposition party would also take heart from past history; the state has alternated between the AIADMK and DMK rule. The 2016 assembly polls were an exception in which Jayalalithaa surprised everyone by winning a second term in a row.In case of the courts not coming to aid her cause within the party, Sasikala would look at the AMMK.AMMK did not make an impact in its earlier electoral outings, but it garnered a little over 5% of the votes polled in the LS election across the state and thus has the potential to damage the ruling party.The importance of Sasikala lies in the fact that while she may not be able to ensure AIADMK a victory even if she rejoins it, she can ensure its defeat if both factions go separate ways electorally. The BJP will be watching warily to see if such an eventuality can be avoided.(Venkatesha Babu is a senior journalist and analyst with a keen interest in politics, economy and culture of Southern India)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-sasikala-factor-in-tamil-nadu-politics-101613966490604.html
22-02-2021||Today's||Give young environmentalists a voice||The climate advocacy group, Fridays for Future, has been in the news recently due to the arrest of one of its members, Disha Ravi, in connection with allegedly playing a role in producing and sharing a protest “toolkit”. On the face of it, producing and sharing a toolkit is usual for advocacy groups seeking to mobilise attention and action around an issue, and it is hard to understand the serious allegations being made. Since I am not privy to the details of the case, I want to flag some broader, problematic, perspectives in the public conversation about this case .First, a prominent theme in public conversations around this episode is that climate activists should stick to narrow environmental issues. Environmentalists, some imply, should play among themselves in a sandbox at one corner of the public debate. The irony is that India and Indian stakeholders — activists, diplomats and political leaders alike — have played a leading role in successfully arguing that the climate crisis is not only an environmental issue, it is a question of development choices, livelihoods and equity.Notably, Fridays for Future appears to have taken on board this broader view: “ensure climate justice and equity” is the second “demand” listed in a August 2019 declaration on its website (the first and third are “limit temperature rise to 1.5 degrees C” and “listen to the science”). This recognition of equity is essential to ensuring that poor people and poor countries do not bear the cost of climate adjustment, which India has been in the forefront of arguing internationally. The bottom line is that environmental and social outcomes are inter-connected, and one cannot come at the cost of the other.This broad perspective on environment is just as salient domestically as it is internationally. And from this point of view, it is reasonable — and even necessary — to look at not only the environmental problems arising from farming, but also the social condition of farmers, and the political and economic forces shaping farmer choices. Calling for Indian environmentalists to limit the scope of their interests not only impoverishes the national conversation, but also contradicts a uniquely powerful Indian stance espoused by activists and government alike, and that has served the national interest well in climate negotiations.Second, it would be deeply problematic if the grumbling about the international linkages of the “toolkit” at the centre of this issue diluted the truth that it is strongly in India’s national interests to address environmental concerns; this is not just some international fiction. Environmental issues affect Indian interests in multiple ways.To begin with, the local environment is despoiled in much of India. The Centre for Science and Environment found that, as of 2018, 275 of 445 monitored rivers were polluted and that unprocessed solid waste is the norm even in many cities. A dire air pollution problem is taking a toll on the health of Indians, with air pollution estimated to cause 1.2 million premature deaths a year, about one-eighth of all annual deaths in India, according to Indian scientists who have contributed to the Global Burden of Disease study. While much remains to be done, some potentially useful steps have been taken, such as creation of a new Commission on Air Quality Management.In addition, the climate crisis is an enormous threat multiplier in India, according to a comprehensive Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology compilation. It could increase the destructive power of natural disasters, affect crop productivity, impact labour productivity through heat stress, disrupt the monsoons, and affect India’s water supply. Simply put, the climate crisis will make India’s development aspirations much harder to achieve.Not least, the landscape of economic opportunity and job creation, both in India and globally, is changing in response to the environmental and climate crises. In energy, fossil fuels are giving way to solar, wind and battery technology; in transport, the days of the internal combustion engine may be numbered — GM recently announced their phase-out; in food, meat substitutes are taking off, and all these changes are driven by environmental concerns. In some areas, the government is attentive to these changes, seeking to stimulate solar panel production, and battery technology and manufacturing.In brief, local pollution, climate damage and new economic opportunities tied to climate and environment are all important to our national interests. While an enormous amount remains to be done, the environment has long left behind the confines of the sandbox.What a time, then, to send a signal to the young citizens of this country — discouraging them from paying attention to, asking challenging questions about, and putting personal energy into acting on, the big issues of our day. India needs more, not less, engagement and energy around environmental issues. We may not always agree with the answers young activists come up with. We may sometimes disagree with the way in which they frame questions or seek attention for their cause. But as a society, we will be poorer if we silence them.Navroz K Dubash is a professor at the Centre for Policy Research, and the editor of India in a Warming World: Integrating Climate Change and DevelopmentThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/give-young-environmentalists-a-voice-101613914397623.html
22-02-2021||Today's||The anti-defection law continues to damage Indian democracy||The anti-defection law will fail again on Monday, this time in Puducherry. Chief Minister V Narayanasamy, who heads the Congress government, has been asked to prove its majority in the Vidhan Sabha. If past proceedings in other assemblies are any indication, the Puducherry Vidhan Sabha may witness unruly scenes. After the resignation of five Congress legislators, the Vidhan Sabha has 27 Members of Legislative Assembly (MLAs). The Congress has the support of 13 MLAs, including the Speaker, who can only vote to break a tie. The opposition has 14 MLAs, including three MLAs nominated by the Centre.Each side will try, till the end, to cajole or coerce MLAs to switch their political loyalty. Parliament made the anti-defection law to prevent such defections, and bring stability to governments and probity in politics. But in the last 35 years of its operation, the law has been entirely unsuccessful in its purpose. A law that does not accomplish its goal is not a new phenomenon in our country. But just because it fails in its purpose does not mean that it has not done any damage.The anti-defection law has been singularly responsible for stifling debate in our Parliament and state legislatures. For example, approximately 250 Members of Parliament (MPs) in the Lok Sabha have declared their profession as farmers. They are from different political parties and represent people across the country. During the debate on the three farm bills, they could not support or oppose these bills based on their knowledge and experience of the agricultural sector.The anti-defection law empowers political parties to force their views on MPs elected on their ticket. Any disagreement with the party can result in MPs losing their seat in the legislature. So they have a choice — voice the views of their parties and continue their parliamentary tenure or speak their mind and risk losing their seat in Parliament.In the absence of an anti-defection law, MPs are free to vote based on their conscience on all issues. Just recently, in the United States, seven Republican senators voted to convict President Trump by breaking ranks with their party. Two months ago, in the United Kingdom, 55 MPs from Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s party voted against the government’s proposal for stricter lockdown restrictions.The noble purpose of the anti-defection law is to bring stability to governments. So it stands to reason if it was limited to votes deciding the fate of a government. But the law allows political parties to disqualify legislators for voting against the party line inside the legislature and anti-party conduct outside it. The law is even applicable to Rajya Sabha MPs, who have no mandate to vote out a government.Over the years, parties have also used the anti-defection law as part of a toolkit to weaken their opposition or topple a government. If a political party has a fewer number of legislators in a state, a larger party lures two-thirds of its MLAs into its fold — a practice permitted under the anti-defection law. If that fails, some MLAs are convinced to support a government and pressure is exerted on Vidhan Sabha Speakers to delay their disqualification. The trend these days is to convince legislators to resign.After the Supreme Court ruled that the decisions of Speakers related to anti-defection come under judicial review, most of them get challenged before the courts. Sometimes, the court process takes time. Take the case of Sharad Yadav. The Rajya Sabha chairman decided his disqualification in three months in 2017, and the case is still pending before the Delhi high court. On other occasions, defection cases lie forgotten after the political crisis is averted. Last month, no one appeared on behalf of the dissident Rajasthan Congress MLAs who had approached the high court seeking protection from the anti-defection law.With assembly elections three months away, the confidence motion’s outcome will be unimportant in Puducherry’s history. But the event will highlight the failure of the anti-defection law and raise an important question. How long will a law which continues to stifle debate in our legislatures continue to be a part of our Constitution?Chakshu Roy is the head of legislative and civic engagement, PRS Legislative ResearchThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-anti-defection-law-continues-to-damage-indian-democracy-101613914337557.html
22-02-2021||Today's||How will farm protests affect electoral landscape?||The farm agitation has now entered its fourth month. It’s also been a month since the dialogue between the government and farmers broke down. How long will this deadlock last?The pressure tactics that the farmers sought to employ through the call for a Bharat bandh and rail roko andolan did not find much traction at the all-India level. Detractors could say this is because the agitation is being led by farmers from just a few northern states. If such anger against the farm laws exists in Tamil Nadu, Telangana and Maharashtra, it has not manifested itself on the streets. The agitation at the Ghazipur, Singhu and Tikri borders of Delhi is witnessing reduced numbers, though it would be premature to say that the movement is losing steam.On the other hand, the mahapanchayats being convened in different parts of Uttar Pradesh (UP), Uttarakhand, Rajasthan and Haryana have seen progressively bigger turnouts. Political leaders are also attending these events. The agitation may not be spreading to other states, but in the states where it is present, it seems to be covering more ground.Protest leaders say that the wedding season and the onset of the rabi crop sowing have led to a dip in numbers at the border sites. At present, the agitation is being done in relay mode, with one set of protestors taking the place of those who have to leave. Farm leaders are adamant that they are prepared for the long haul. Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait claims that farmer discontent has spread all over the country and rallies are being held in other states too, though it may not be on the scale seen at the Delhi border areas. If his claims are true, then farmer-government tensions could worsen.The results of the municipal elections in Punjab have added a new dimension to the whole issue and highlighted possible electoral implications of the protests. Last week, the Congress won an unprecedented victory and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which fought alone after the break in its alliance with the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), came in fourth. Of 2,165 wards in the municipal council and municipal corporation, the Congress got 1,484, SAD won 294, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) got 57 and the BJP just 47. The Congress won 68.5% of the wards, SAD 13.5%, AAP 2.6% and the BJP 2.1%. While the Congress captured the Bathinda municipal corporation after 53 years, the BJP lost even in its strongholds.Are civic elections a harbinger for next year’s assembly elections in the state? It is perhaps too early to make definite predictions. The Congress won in 2017, but the 2015 civic elections largely went in favour of the SAD-BJP alliance. Voting preferences could be distinct for distinct polls. This was demonstrated in the December 2020 local body elections in Kerala where, contrary to all expectations, the Congress-led United Democratic Front was defeated by the ruling Left Democratic Front (LDF) — though the Congress had done well in the Lok Sabha polls just a year earlier.Rajasthan is another state where the farm protests have had an impact. The Congress did well in the civic elections held there last month. This suggests a degree of anger against the BJP in states where the farmer agitation has been a part of the discourse.But the real impact of the protest will have to be judged in Uttar Pradesh. In accordance with an order of the Allahabad high court, elections for panchayats in UP are to be held before April 30. The assembly elections are a year away. Western UP has become the epicentre of farm discontent, Rakesh Tikait comes from this region — and his late father Mahendra Singh Tikait led a historic farm agitation from here decades ago.On Wednesday, when the results of the elections to the local bodies were being declared in Punjab, important BJP leaders from western UP were meeting Union minister Sanjeev Balyan in Delhi. At this meeting, it was decided that BJP leaders would talk to the farmers and other community leaders to explain the benefits of the new agricultural laws. But this is no easy task given the tensions over the past months.Even as the meeting with Balyan was underway, a mahapanchayat was being held at Muzaffarnagar in western UP. At this forum, Naresh Tikait, president of the BKU, called for the social boycott of BJP leaders to the extent of excluding them even from weddings. Clearly, the Muzaffarnagar model, which once paved the way for the BJP’s comprehensive victory in 2014, is losing ground. Congress general secretary in charge of UP, Priyanka Gandhi, Samajwadi Party leader Akhilesh Yadav and Bahujan Samaj Party leader Mayawati are all looking at new political strategies which factor in these changes. AAP also sees growth prospects for itself in the state.Will a social movement born out of economic compulsions end up changing political equations drastically? This is now within the realm of possibility.Shashi Shekhar is the editor in chief of HindustanThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/how-will-farm-protests-affect-electoral-landscape-101613914281815.html
22-02-2021||Editorials||In Puducherry, a political crisis | HT Editorial||In Puducherry, on Monday, the Congress government, led by chief minister V Narayanasamy, lost power. Faced with desertions of four legislators — two resigned on Sunday — the government fell short of a majority, and the CM choose to resign instead of facing a floor test. The fall of the Congress government is significant, for it comes weeks before the Union Territory will hold elections. It has also happened days after the President of India, on the Centre’s recommendation, divested Lieutenant Governor Kiran Bedi of her charge and assigned it to Telangana’s governor Tamilisai Soundararajan, who asked the CM to prove his majority. The fall of the Congress government has led to a predictable exchange of accusations — with the CM accusing the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) of destabilising his government and the BJP accusing the Congress of misgoverning the UT.Puducherry has confirmed, yet again, three broader trends in national politics. The first is the inability of the Congress to manage its internal affairs. Reports suggest that there had been brewing disenchantment with the CM’s style of functioning, and legislators were looking out for political opportunities. Despite being the only southern region where the party is in power, the Congress high command clearly did not pay enough attention to these rumblings and address the internal discord. The fact that internal discord cost the Congress power in Madhya Pradesh (MP) and Karnataka just recently — and the party was about to lose its government in Rajasthan — should have alerted it to the need to stem internal factional divisions.Second, the developments confirm the BJP’s political aggression and willingness to deploy all means to weaken the Congress and ensure non-Congress governments, even if the BJP cannot, on its own, provide an alternative as is the case in Puducherry. But, most importantly, as analyst Chakshu Roy pointed out in this newspaper, the episode exposes the utter failure of the anti-defection law. It fails in stopping legislators from shifting allegiances and the ouster of governments due to these shifts, while stifling genuine voices from among legislators, beyond party lines, on issues of public importance. The practical realities of Indian politics — the ineptness of the Congress and the BJP’s quest for power — and the dysfunctionality of existing legal frameworks such as the anti-defection law has led to Puducherry’s pre-poll political shift.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/in-puducherry-a-political-crisis-hteditorial-101614006570699.html
22-02-2021||Editorials||A year on, Delhi riot victims await justice | HT Editorial||After 1984, Delhi pledged never again. The national Capital has still not been able to heal the wounds left behind by the anti-Sikh violence after Indira Gandhi’s assassination. The fact that the State apparatus did not perform its role in maintaining order, and was actually seen as encouraging the perpetrators of violence (or being completely incapable of dealing with them), set the template, off and on, for similar events witnessed over the past three-and-a-half decades.Last year, the Capital saw its most horrific violence after 36 years. Coming in the wake of a prolonged agitation against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, a polarised election campaign, and a deep trust deficit between Hindus and Muslims, it took place even as United States President Donald Trump was visiting India. It took days for the national security apparatus to restore order. And it exposed, yet again, the dangerous combination of extreme political rhetoric and sub-optimal law enforcement.India has learnt little from past riots. The investigation into the riots has been criticised for being partisan — where it is mostly the critics of the central government who find themselves being scrutinised, arrested and charged even as those pledging allegiance to the ruling party at the Centre appear to have escaped legal accountability. Delhi, and India can’t afford that. There has to be an independent examination of what happened last February and the law will have to take its course without considering political affiliations and victims will have to be provided justice. If that doesn’t happen, the wounds of 2020, like those of 1984, may remain open.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/a-year-on-delhi-riot-victims-await-justice-hteditorial-101614006567141.html
22-02-2021||Editorials||Australia is on the right path||To understand Australia’s attempts to create a legal framework to get big tech firms to pay media publishers for the use of their content — and the recent deal between Google and News Corp whereby the latter will pay the former — it is important to go back to first principles. A mainstream media company invests enormous resources in reportage and news- gathering, fact-checking and editing, and production. The news and views which are generated after due editorial diligence inform readers about the world around them, set the agenda for policymakers, and shape discourse and narratives — central to the functioning of a democracy. Big tech media companies, such as Google or Facebook, then use this content (produced by others) on their platforms. Advertisers then, based on the dominance of tech firms over the online space, shift their ad expenditure away from traditional media companies towards these firms. And so the work is put in by mainstream media companies, expenditure is incurred by them, but the profits are largely monopolised by the tech firms, leaving the original content producers struggling for survival.This model is economically unsustainable. Full disclosure — this newspaper has suffered, along with other Indian publishers, due to the predatory practices of tech firms. But the issue goes beyond the specifics of one company, for the very task of producing good journalism is being rendered economically difficult due to the revenue model at play. This model is ethically flawed — should a distributor of content, by sheer power of access to users, whose private data is mined, often through dubious means, profit off work done by producers of the content? This model is also politically dangerous — in a democracy, accurate information and civilised debate are essential to hold power accountable, and this requires good journalism. It is not a coincidence that there is proliferation of fake news when those who produce accurate news are getting weaker.Australia’s decision to take on big tech firms and adopt a principled stand on the issue is welcome. And so is Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison’s call to Prime Minister Narendra Modi — where, according to the Australian readout, Mr Morrison spoke of the progress in the media-related legislation. Democracies must work together to hold big tech firms accountable and preserve the basic building blocks of open, informed societies. India must follow suit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/australia-is-on-the-right-path-101613913977423.html
