24-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Ex-income tax officer gets 3-year jail term for disproportionate assets||The special Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) court on Tuesday convicted a 67-year-old retired income tax inspector for possession of a disproportionate asset worth ₹59.89 lakh, over and above his income from known sources.The court sentenced the convict, Leeladhar Bangera, to rigorous imprisonment for three years and also imposed a fine of ₹16,000. The court also ordered the recovery of the value of disproportionate assets from his movable and immovable properties.At Bangera’s request, the special court suspended his sentence for four weeks to enable him to approach the Bombay high court (HC) to challenge the verdict.As per the prosecution, a case against Bangera and his wife was registered on October 7, 2011, for possession of assets disproportionate to their income from known sources between January 2007 and March 2010.Bangera had joined the income tax department in September 1976, as a stenographer. He was later promoted as an income tax inspector in April 2005. His wife Jayashri worked with the Mineral and Metal Trading Corporation Limited. As such, both of them were public servants.The CBI alleged that during their service, the couple acquired assets worth ₹77.21 lakh against their income of ₹17.2 lakh. Hence, the anti-corruption wing of the agency claimed that their assets were disproportionate to the tune of ₹59.89 lakh in comparison to their combined income.The CBI court had charged the couple for possession of disproportion assets. However, during the trial, Jayashri died in November 2016. Hence, the case against her was dropped and only Bangera went on trial.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-ex-income-tax-officer-gets-3-year-jail-term-for-disproportionate-assets-101614191388052.html
24-02-2021||Other||2 months after bird flu outbreak, Pong Dam reopens for tourists||The Pong Dam Lake Wildlife Sanctuary has been reopened for tourists after remaining shut for nearly two months due to bird flu outbreak. The sanctuary was closed early in January after several migratory and exotic birds were found dead in the area. Deaths among migratory bird species were first reported on December 28, 2020, and the H5N1 virus was ascertained as the cause of death after which all kind of activities, including fishing, grazing and tourism, were stopped in 10-km radius of the lake. The authorities had lifted the ban on fishing in the lake on February 8. The Pong Dam Lake, built on the Beas river in 1960, was declared a bird sanctuary in 1983 and given the status of wetland of national importance in 1994. In 2002, it became a Ramsar site or a wetland site of international importance under the Ramsar Convention. Since 1988, 425 bird species have been spotted at the wetland. Most of these birds migrate from their breeding places in the trans-Himalayan region, including Tibet, Central Asia, Russia and Siberia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/2-months-after-bird-flu-outbreak-pong-dam-reopens-for-tourists-101614191328047.html
24-02-2021||Other||Navy sailor bought loose diesel, may have staged kidnapping, says police||Days after the suspicious death of leading seaman Surajkumar Mithilesh Dubey, 27, of the Indian Navy, the Palghar police have found CCTV footages of the sailor purchasing around five litres of lose diesel from a Talasari bunker on February 5. The police now suspect that the sailor had staged his own kidnap.Dubey was found with severe burn injuries in the jungles of Gholwad in the Palghar district and died while being taken to a hospital in Mumbai on February 5. On his death bed, Dubey had reportedly claimed that armed men had kidnapped him and demanded a ransom of ₹10 lakh for his release.“The entire drama was meticulously pre-planned by Dubey given his Navy training. We will also take action against the owner of the petrol pump for selling lose diesel,” said Dattatray Shinde, superintendent of police, Palghar.It is clear Dubey was under debt to the tune of over ₹25 lakh and had even approached 13 banks for loans, as per the Credit Information Bureau India Limited (CIBIL) report, said Shinde. He had invested in share trading and as per his dematerialization (DMAT) account, he owed ₹76,000 to a firm, even as he lost ₹18 lakh in the share market, Shinde added.“His last credited amount was ₹34,000 salary from Indian Navy in January 2021. He had just ₹392 as balance in two accounts. Dubey had also borrowed ₹2 lakh from a friend and ₹9 lakh from his in-laws to invest in the share market. However, he lost all money. Dubey was to be married to be on May 22,” Shinde said.The police said that the alleged kidnapper by the name of ‘Irfan’, who spoke to his cousin, was Dubey himself. “We are investigating how Suraj arrived in Gholwad from Chennai, covering 1,480 km, in just a few hours, when it takes over 26 hours. Dubey had claimed he was taken to a hillock by the kidnappers, but we found it is impossible to climb the hill ‘blindfolded’ (as alleged by Dubey), as it is dangerous,” said Shinde.“Dubey had stayed at a lodge in Vellore, 60 km from Chennai, and had paid ₹2,000 as an advance. We also found his name in the hotel register. He checked out on February 1, evening, after getting a ₹1,000 refund. However, in his dying declaration, Dubey told us that he had been kidnapped from outside Chennai airport and driven 1,500 km down to Gholwad in Palghar, where he was allegedly set on fire by three unidentified men. We are probing as to how he travelled from Vellore to Palghar,” Shinde added.officer.Furthermore, the Indian Navy may declare Dubey as an ‘absconder’ for not rejoining the duty on February 1 at INS Agrani, Coimbatore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/navy-sailor-bought-loose-diesel-may-have-staged-kidnapping-says-police-101614190728030.html
24-02-2021||Delhi||Man shoots himself dead at Defence Colony home||An 81-year-old man allegedly shot himself dead with his licensed pistol at his home in south Delhi’s Defence Colony on Wednesday morning, the police said. The octogenarian, a former diplomat, left behind a one-page note in which he expressed his unhappiness over age-related health issues and wrote that he did not want to live, the police said.Deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Kumar Thakur said the police received a call at 7.25am that a person had shot himself at his house in Defence Colony and needed an ambulance. A police team immediately reached the house and rushed the injured man to a nearby hospital, where he died during treatment. “The elderly man had some health issues for which he underwent treatment at a private hospital for nearly a month. He returned home after being discharged from the hospital on Tuesday evening. He left behind a suicide note,” said DCP Thakur.According to the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) data, 2,526 people killed themselves in Delhi in 2019 and of them, 825 ended their lives because of family problems. A total of 130 suicides were due to mental health issues, critical and prolonged illness, etc.“Loneliness, health issues, lack of support system and financial crisis are some major reasons behind suicides. Instead of talking about these reasons, we should focus on the need for a support system comprising family members, friends, relatives, neighbours, residents’ welfare associations (RWAs), and others. Such a support system will play a major role in preventing such deaths,” said psychiatrist Samir Parikh, who is the director of Fortis National Mental Health Programme.If you need support or know someone who does, please reach out to your nearest mental health specialists. Helplines: Fortis Stress Helpline: 8376804102, Sumaitri: 01123389090, Snehi: 01165978181, Sanjeevani: 01124311918/01124318883.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/man-shoots-himself-dead-at-defence-colony-home-101614190668409.html
24-02-2021||Delhi||Govt notifies modalities of doorstep delivery of ration, cardholders may opt in or out every fiscal||The Delhi government has notified the policy document that prescribes the modalities of the doorstep delivery of ration scheme, meant for the 1.75 million ration cardholders in the national capital.According to the notification document, the scheme will be optional, and beneficiaries of the existing TPDS (targeted public distribution system) may choose to enrol for the scheme or continue under the existing TPDS. Those who are not opting for the scheme shall continue to get their ration as per the existing mechanism and price. “Beneficiaries will be able to exercise the option in the beginning of every financial year,” the document, notified on February 20, said.On January 25, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had said the scheme will be operational by March.A senior government official, on condition of anonymity, said, “For the full implementation of the scheme, some more documents concerning modalities of processing charges, additional fee, etc., will have to be notified.”The scheme document elaborated the entire process and said foodgrains will be collected from the food corporation godowns by agencies empanelled by the government and sent to mills where wheat will be processed into flour and packed. Similarly, there will be units for cleaning and packing of rice as well. The packets will be delivered to fair price shops and from there, they will be further delivered to residences of beneficiaries who opt for the scheme.The beneficiaries will have to register the receipt of the ration with their fingerprints on the biometric-based electronic point-of-sale (e-POS) machines, which the agencies entrusted with doorstep delivery will carry. The entire operation -- from the godown to the doorstep --- will be monitored via CCTV cameras, GPS-fitted vehicles, e-POS logs, etc, said the document.Delhi has 1.75 million ration cardholders, which translates to 7.16 million beneficiaries. Of the total ration cardholders, 1.51 million are covered under the priority household category of the National Food Security Act, 2013, while 0.17 million are covered under the priority state household category, and the remaining 0.07 million come under the Antyodaya Anna Yojana, show government records.While those under the first two categories are entitled to 5 kilos of foodgrain a month, those under the third category are entitled to 25 kilos of wheat, 10 kilos of rice and a kilo of sugar every month. These items are distributed to them through 2,010 fair price shops that are currently functional across the city.The doorstep ration scheme was cleared by the Delhi cabinet in March 2018 but could not be rolled out because of legal and administrative issues. In July 2020, the cabinet gave fresh approval to the project.Shailendra Kumar, president of Delhi public distribution system welfare association, said, “In other states, provision for doorstep delivery is limited to elderly beneficiaries, people with disabilities and other vulnerable groups. The Delhi model will force fair price shops out of business and that will lead to unemployment. The government should be more considerate in this regard.”Saurabh Garg, secretary of the Delhi-based Sarkari Ration Dealer Sangh, echoed similar concerns: “By binding a beneficiary for one full financial year, it also deprives the person of the option to discontinue after a few months. What if beneficiaries have to go to villages and collect the ration there under the central government’s one nation one ration card policy?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/govt-notifies-modalities-of-doorstep-delivery-of-ration-cardholders-may-opt-in-or-out-every-fiscal-101614190669000.html
24-02-2021||Delhi||HC asks Delhi govt to look into custodial death of Tihar inmate||The Delhi high court on Wednesday was shocked and anguished by the death of an under-trial prisoner, who was allegedly stabbed to death with a knife in November 2020 at Tihar jail, and directed the authorities to update it about the status of the investigation into the custodial death.Justice Prathiba M Singh was hearing a plea by the inmate’s father Ali Sher, who had moved the court seeking a compensation of ₹5 crore for the custodial death of his son, Dilsher Azad. Azad’s counsel, Vishal Raj Sehijpal, said his client was accused of illegally confining a person, extortion and criminal conspiracy in a case lodged in 2019. His bail plea was pending before Delhi high court when he was killed.“I don’t know how something like this can happen. It is shocking. We see such things only in fiction,” Singh said, adding that the CCTV footage on the date of the incident should have been confiscated.“I had visited the Tihar jail once, and they have a very small time period for which they preserve the CCTV footage. Nowadays, we have cloud servers, so the issue of storage space is not there anymore,” the judge said.In his plea, Sher said Azad was an under-trial prisoner at Tihar Jail since September 2019. On November 30, 2020, he received a call from police informing him about the death of his son.The plea contended that when he reached the jail, the prison authorities did not cooperate with him and he was not told the real cause of death. After Sher called a lawyer, he was informed that his son was stabbed to death with knives.The court asked the Delhi government, represented by additional standing counsel Sanjoy Ghose, to file a status report, indicating whether an FIR has been lodged in connection with the incident and, if so, the status of the investigation.During the proceedings, Ghose also said “it was a matter of great concern” that something like this had happened in the national capital. He said there were nine stab wounds on the victim’s body.The court further said the report shall also indicate whether the CCTV footage of the cell where the victim was housed has been recovered and preserved and, if yes, in what manner. It also asked whether any charge sheet has been filed in the case and, if so, the status of the trial in that case.The matter would be now heard on March 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/hc-asks-delhi-govt-to-look-into-custodial-death-of-tihar-inmate-101614190667883.html
24-02-2021||Other||Toolkit case: Shantanu Muluk’s bail plea hearing today||New Delhi A Delhi court on Wednesday sought the response of Delhi Police on the anticipatory bail plea of Pune engineer Shantanu Muluk, who is a co-accused in the “toolkit” — a Google document — case in favour of the ongoing farmers’ protest. Additional sessions judge Dharmender Rana, who granted bail to Ravi on Tuesday, posted Muluk’s bail application for arguments on Thursday. Muluk had got transit bail from the Bombay high court on February 16 for a period of 10 days.During the brief hearing held through video-conferencing on Wednesday, the court noted Delhi police’s submission that Muluk has been granted protection from arrest till February 26.The matter was adjourned after the public prosecutor, Irfan Ahmed, said that the investigating officer of the case was not present today and “it would be better if the matter is heard in physical presence.” Muluk, along with Ravi and another co-accused Nikita Jacob, was booked for alleged sedition and other charges. Ravi was arrested by a cyber cell team of Delhi Police from Bengaluru and brought to Delhi. Muluk and Jacob are currently on transit bail, with Ravi being granted bail on Tuesday after 10 days in police custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/toolkit-case-shantanu-muluk-s-bail-plea-hearing-today-101614190667338.html
24-02-2021||Other||80 prisoners out on emergency parole fail to surrender back||New DelhiAt least 80 prisoners, who had been granted emergency parole last year at the beginning of the pandemic to decongest the prisons, have failed to return to prison and are currently absconding, officials said. Prison officials said they will write to the Delhi Police with a list of names of all such prisoners who had failed to return after the end of their bail period. Many jail officers, who wish not to be named, said that among the 80, there are many murder convicts too, who were supposed to surrender this month. The surrenders are happening jail wise and so far 80 prisoners had failed to turn up on their set dates, jail officials said.“The process of surrendering began on February 6. The prisoners had to surrender at Mandoli jail, quarantine there temporarily before their transfer to their respective jails. Officials at Mandoli have reported that there at 20-30 prisoners from each sub-jail, who have not yet surrendered. We had chosen Mandoli jail as the surrender point so that even if a prisoner was Covid-19 positive, he/she can be detected early before being allowed to mingle with other prisoners,” said a jail officer. As one of the first measures to decongest jails and ensure social distancing at the start of the pandemic , nearly 1000 prisoners were released on “emergency parole” in April last year. The three jails in Tihar, Mandoli and Rohini collectively hold over 18,000 prisoners. The prisoners were originally supposed to surrender after eight weeks, but the surrender date was extended at different intervals as Covid-19 cases kept rising till November last year. Finally, the surrender process started on February 6, during which jails noted that many prisoners had refused to return. One such prisoner, who had been declared absconding was convict Shamshad Khutkan alias Rahul,31, convicted in the 2010 Dhaula Kuan gangrape case. Khutkan, who was serving life imprisonment in the infamous case, was among those released last year on parole. Khutkan was to surrender on February 20, but had gone absconding. A police team arrested him on February 22 (Monday) after a shoot-out in north Delhi. Police have said that Khutkan refused to turn himself in and was arrested with a pistol, which he used to fire at the police team on Monday. Delhi police on Monday said that Khutkan was involved in at least 12 robberies in the last two months. A second jail officer said that apart from the 80, who have gone missing, there are many elderly prisoners who have informed the prison department that they are waiting till the Delhi high court decides on a plea about the surrender of prisoners above 65 years. A city lawyer has filed a plea requesting the HC to extend the parole for all elderly prisoners. “There are a few elderly ones, who are in touch with us. We cannot call them absconding.” Sandeep Goel, director-general of prisons, Delhi, said,” At this stage, it will not be proper to estimate the number of prisoners who have not returned. The process of surrender is still on. We will be informing the concerned police station if prisoners fails to return.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/80-prisoners-out-on-emergency-parole-fail-to-surrender-back-101614190608951.html
24-02-2021||Delhi||DU likely to adopt combination of entrance test score and class 12 marks for admissions from this year||With the Central government likely to hold a common entrance test for admissions to undergraduate courses at all the central universities, starting this upcoming session, officials at Delhi University (DU) said they are ready to adopt it immediately in combination with the class 12 score of aspirants. The other two central universities in Delhi, the Jawaharlal Nehru University and Jamia Millia Islamia, are yet to take a call regarding any change in their admission process.Last December, the Union ministry of education constituted a seven-member committee to recommend modalities for the Central University Common Entrance Test (CUCET) for admission to undergraduate courses across central universities in accordance with the National Education Policy (NEP), 2020. The same month, higher education secretary Amit Khare also said a common entrance test for admission to all central universities will be implemented in 2021.DU vice-chancellor (acting) PC Joshi, who is also a member of the committee, said, “The modalities of CUCET will soon be finalised and it’s highly likely that it will be implemented from the upcoming academic session itself. DU is also ready to adopt it from this year onwards. We have already sent our proposal to the UGC (University Grants Commission) stating that we want a combination of CUCET and class 12 scores of students for admission to undergraduate courses,” he said.Joshi said the CUCET will be conducted online and will have two components -- an aptitude test and a subject-specific test. “DU won’t have a major issue in implementing CUCET. The National Testing Agency (NTA), which will conduct the test, has already been holding entrance exams for some of the undergraduate courses in DU over the past few years. Besides, we are planning to combine the CUCET score with the class 12 marks of students because we cannot make the Boards (CBSE, state board etc) redundant. We are yet to decide the weightage of these two components,” he said.DU currently follows the merit-based admission process for admission to all undergraduate programmes excluding nine courses for which NTA conducts entrance exams every year. “We are waiting for a nod from the education ministry before making a formal announcement,” Joshi said. In Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU), officials said CUCET won’t make much of a difference since the university offers only 10 undergraduate courses in foreign languages. JNU registrar Pramod Kumar said, “The NTA is already conducting entrance exams for admission to these courses. So, it won’t be a major issue for JNU to adopt it. However, we are yet to finalise anything in this regard.”Jamia Millia Islamia registrar Nazim Hussain Jafri said the university is working on the modalities. “It’s going to be mandatory for all central universities and we will also adopt it. But we are yet to finalise our proposal. It will only be sent to the ministry after consulting our academic and executive councils. The education ministry is also conducting a conference this weekend to guide universities about CUCET,” he said. Presently, Jamia conducts its own entrance tests and interviews for admission to all courses. Meanwhile, some members of DU’s statutory bodies, the academic council (AC) and the executive council (EC), also said the varsity should have consulted them before taking any decision regarding admissions. “As per the university norms, the administration cannot send any proposal to the UGC or the ministry without consulting the statutory bodies. That is completely illegal. If the university continues to give weightage to class 12 marks, that won’t serve the purpose. The long process of document verification will still be there,” said Naveen Gaur, DU academic council member.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/du-likely-to-adopt-combination-of-entrance-test-score-and-class-12-marks-for-admissions-from-this-year-101614190608148.html
24-02-2021||Noida||Former Jharkhand governor’s email hacked, Noida police probe matter||The Noida police have launched a probe after unidentified persons allegedly hacked the email account of the former Jharkhand Governor Prabhat Kumar.Kumar is a resident of Sector 39 in Noida. A police complaint was registered at the Noida Sector 39 police station, under IT Act sections, on Tuesday.The incident came to light on Monday (February 22) when Kumar tried to access his account, but it was locked, according to the complainant. “I’m unable to access my account. The hackers are sending messages to my contacts and asking for money, to the tune of ₹1 lakh. Some of my friends have been duped on this pretext,” Kumar mentioned in his complaint.A probe is underway, and prima facie it seems the password of the account was reset, police said. “The cyber cell of Noida police is investigating the case. Action will be taken soon,” said deputy commissioner of police (zone 1) Rajesh S.Kumar has failed to close his email account and is afraid that “it could be used for criminal offences and anti-national activities”. He did not comment on the matter yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/former-jharkhand-governor-s-email-hacked-noida-police-probe-matter-101614190607406.html
24-02-2021||Mumbai||First session of JEE Mains exam moderately difficult: Students||The first of the four cycles of Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) Mains was conducted across the country, on Wednesday. Most students found exams, in both sessions, moderately difficult. Close to 6.6 lakh students had registered for this first cycle of JEE Mains this year.“Questions covered almost all chapters of Class 11 and 12 (CBSE syllabus), however, more weightage was given to Class 12 chapters of mathematics and chemistry. Students found the physics section easier as compared to maths and chemistry in the afternoon session,” said Ramesh Batlish, an expert from a coaching centre. Earlier this year, the Union government decided to conduct JEE Mains in four cycles, between February and May. The decision was taken to ensure that students do not miss out on the entrance exam if the date clashed with other competitive exams. With rising cases of Covid-19 across several cities at present, the National Testing Agency (NTA) ensured strict social distancing norms and all students were called to the exam centres before time, to avoid crowding. “Most of us managed to complete the exam before the given time limit as many found the papers very easy. I’m hoping for a very good score in the exam,” said Ankush Sharma, a JEE aspirant.However, the second session conducted on Wednesday got mixed reactions from students. “Overall, the paper was moderately difficult. Some students found the maths section lengthy compared to the physics and chemistry sections,” said Ajay Kumar Sharma, national academic director, of another coaching institute.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/first-session-of-jee-mains-exam-moderately-difficult-students-101614190548047.html
24-02-2021||Delhi||Civic bodies stop taking event bookings for parks after NGT prohibits it citing environment loss||All three municipal corporations of Delhi have stopped taking event bookings for parks, including the Ramlila Ground, in the wake of a recent order by the National Green Tribunal (NGT) citing environment loss to parks due to the holding of mass public functions such as cultural and religious events, weddings and political rallies. Civic authorities said they are exploring possibilities to “challenge” the order.The Ramlila Ground is a popular venue where major political rallies and religious programmes are organised. It is the ground where social activist Anna Hazare started the India Against Corruption movement in 2011.The NGT earlier this month had directed civic bodies to strictly enforce orders prohibiting weddings, cultural, commercial and other functions at parks. The order was issued while hearing an application that said wedding functions being held in west Delhi’s Vikas Puri Dussehra ground were flouting environment norms.According to civic officials, the bookings for parks and grounds are one of the important revenue sources of civic bodies and the move would adversely affect revenue generation of cash-strapped municipalities. Civic authorities projected a cumulative loss of around ₹3.5 crore a year to the three corporations.Municipal officials said prior to that order, as many as 129 parks and grounds across the three municipal bodies used to be booked for religious, cultural and political events throughout the year.Jai Prakash, mayor of North Delhi Municipal Corporation, said there are nearly 47 parks and grounds, including the Ramlila Ground, under its jurisdiction where public and cultural functions used to be organised, generating revenue for the civic body. The NGT order has put paid to bookings this month, he said.“This decision is going to adversely impact our revenue generation. We are eying a loss of around ₹1 crore to ₹1.2 crore a year. We are examining the NGT order and are taking legal advice on whether it can be challenged,” Prakash said. He has also directed the chief legal officer of the civic body to check if Ramlila Ground can be kept open for bookings as, being a ground, it does not fall under the category of “parks”.Similarly, bookings have been stopped at the 64 parks of the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) and 18 parks of the East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC).Narendra Chawla, leader of the house in SDMC, said before granting permission to anyone to hold functions or events in SDMC parks, the civic body takes an undertaking from the applicant that the ecology of the park is not be disturbed, apart from which a maintenance charge is also realised from the applicant. “We always ensure that there is no permanent digging in the park and no garbage is left behind. There might have been violations in one or two cases, but imposing a blanket ban on all events at parks is not right. With this decision, we are going to witness a loss of at least ₹1.5 crore annually. We are exploring options on whether the order can be challenged,” Chawla said.Nirmal Jain, mayor, EDMC, said, “The civic body is already facing an acute financial crunch and this order will further limit our revenue generation resources. We are looking at a loss of at least ₹80 lakh annually if parks are not leased out for events.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/civic-bodies-stop-taking-event-bookings-for-parks-after-ngt-prohibits-it-citing-environment-loss-101614190488494.html
24-02-2021||Other||Govt introduces contactless tickets on all DTC buses||New DelhiThe Delhi government on Wednesday, for the first time since its inception, expanded its ambitious contactless ticketing service to all its Delhi transport corporation (DTC) buses. The ticketless scheme was introduced by the government in May-June last year during the lockdown in order to cut down on physical human interaction that increased the chances of spread of Covid-19.Passengers can make use of this service through the ‘Chartr’ app. Almost all the buses now have QR code stickers pasted on the back of each seat which can be scanned to make payment through the app. Several buses, though not all, also had posters explaining in Hindi how one should proceed with the online ticket purchase by using the app. HT hopped onto a few buses and , however, found that most passengers still preferred to pay cash and coins and take paper tickets.On Day One of the complete roll-out of the system, at least 1,601 contactless general tickets and 5,015 pink tickets -— the free tickets for women passengers — were issued till 10pm on Wednesday, government record showed. “Till 9pm, the total collection through online transactions of tickets was ₹18,829. As many as 114 daily passes were issued on Wednesday through the contactless ticketing system amounting to a total collection of ₹ 5,150,” said RS Minhas, deputy general manager (PR), DTC. He, however, said the service is currently being run on a trial basis with an aim to fix technical glitches or physical problems faced by passengers or the conductors. Delhi has at least 3,700 DTC buses and prior to Wednesday, the trials were going on only in 128 DTC buses. A similar trial run is also going on in the city’s cluster buses. A senior official of the Delhi integrated multi-modal transit system (DIMTS) limited said at present, trials of the contactless ticketing service is being carried out in 497 of the 2,990 cluster buses in the Capital. “The plan is to formally launch the contactless ticketing system in all the 6,750 state-run buses — 3,760 DTC and 2,990 cluster — from March,” a senior transport official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/govt-introduces-contactless-tickets-on-all-dtc-buses-101614190487422.html
24-02-2021||Other||Travellers from five states may need Covid negative reports to enter Delhi from Saturday||New Delhi: iPeople arriving in Delhi from five states that have reported a surge in daily Covid-19 infections may be asked to provide a negative RT-PCR test reports from Saturday, senior government officials privy to developments said.The issue was taken up in a Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) meeting on Monday in the wake of steady rise in cases in Maharashtra, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab and Chhattisgarh, and greater curbs and checks were discussed, the people cited above added.An official order, however, was not issued till Wednesday night.“Any passenger arriving in Delhi via private or state-run buses, flights or trains may have to show a negative RT-PCR test report on their arrival in the Capital. The test report will have to be conducted not before 72 hours from the time of the person’s arrival in Delhi,” a government official said, asking not to named. It was discussed that the directions may come into force “after midnight on February 26 and stay in operation till March 15”, the official added.Airport and railway officials on Wednesday said they were yet to be informed about any such rule. Like all the Covid-19 hit states, Delhi too had travel restrictions in place. While domestic flight operations resumed in Delhi from May 25 after the nation-wide lockdown was announced on March 25, the Delhi government resumed its inter-state bus operations as late as November 3, 2020. For international flights, all passengers from the UK, Brazil, South Africa, all European countries and the Middle East arriving at Delhi’s Indira Gandhi International Airport compulsorily have to undergo an RT-PCR test. However, they need not mandatorily undergo institutional quarantine. As per the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) given by the ministry of health and family welfare dated February 17, passengers from these high-risk countries can get their tests done at the airport before proceeding for home quarantine. Transit passengers will, however, have to wait for six hours until their reports are out.Meanwhile, some of these affected states have themselves announced restrictions that amount to at least a partial lockdown in an attempt to curb the surge, even as the Centre rushes teams there to deal with a sudden spike in infections.The lockdowns and the restrictions of travellers hark back to the first half of 2020 when most states put stringent measures in place amid the first Covid wave. With cases beginning to decline from October, most states relaxed these. Now, with a second wave threatening to break out, many are reimposing them.On Monday, the Maharashtra government announced a complete lockdown in Amravati district and restrictions on assembly of people in Akola, Washim, Buldhana and Yavatmal districts. Earlier this week, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation has imposed restrictions on marriages, public functions and gathering at public places across Mumbai.Karnataka, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh and Uttarakhand have made negative RT-PCR tests mandatory for travellers from Maharashtra. Maharashtra, meanwhile, requires travellers from Gujarat, Delhi-NCR, Goa, Rajasthan and Kerala to show negative RT-PCR tests.Lalit Kant, former head of epidemiology and communicable diseases at Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said the city administration must regulate or closely check passengers coming from states where Covid-19 cases are on the rise again. “It is especially important now because of the multiple new variants of the virus that are now emerging. Most of the new strains spread rapidly even as they may not be as severe in terms of the infection caused to the body. But some form of regulation of incoming passengers is required. On Wednesday itself, Delhi’s active cases spiked by at least 80, which could well be the start of a new gradual spike if precautions are not taken in time,” he said.A Delhi government spokesperson said the decision was taken by the DDMA and an order not he same is awaited by the authority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/travellers-from-five-states-may-need-covid-negative-reports-to-enter-delhi-from-saturday-101614190487970.html
24-02-2021||Other||Max temperature in Delhi touches 32.5°C — highest in 15 years||New Delhi: Delhi on Wednesday recorded the highest maximum temperature for the month of February since 2006, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD) recordings. On Wednesday, the maximum temperature recorded at the Safdarjung weather station, which is considered the official marker for the city, was 32.5 degrees Celsius, seven degrees above the season’s normal. The minimum temperature was 12 degrees Celsius, a notch above what is considered normal for this time of the year. Before this, in 2018 and 2017, the day time temperatures had crossed the 32 degrees Celsius mark. On February 23, 2018, the maximum temperature was 32 degrees Celsius, while on February 21, 2017, the maximum temperature had touched 32.4 degrees Celsius. According to IMD, this was the warmest February day in at least the last 15 years, when the city had recorded day temperature of 34.1 degrees Celsius.IMD scientists warned that the temperature was likely to soar further in the coming days. Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre, said that there is a possibility that the maximum temperature could touch 33-34 degrees Celsius in the next two days. “The temperatures are already hovering in the 31-32 degrees Celsius range, there is definitely a chance that the mercury could rise by a few points and reach 33-34 degrees Celsius. Whether it will break the 2006 record remains to be seen,” Srivastava said. He also explained that February this year has been recording higher than normal temperatures throughout and this was primarily because of fewer active western disturbances and clear skies; that has led to sunlight hitting the surface uninterrupted. “Generally, in the month of February we get around six active western disturbances. But this year, Delhi last saw an active western disturbance was on February 4. This prolonged spell without a western disturbance has led to clear skies, causing heating of the ground,” Srivastava said. Meanwhile, the air quality remained in the ‘poor’ zone on Wednesday. Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) recordings show that the overall air quality index (AQI) of Delhi was 278. On Tuesday, the average AQI was 250, also in the ‘poor’ category. IMD forecast said that there is a possibility of improvement in air quality from February 26, when the AQI is likely to come down to the ‘moderate’ range.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/max-temperature-in-delhi-touches-32-5-c-highest-in-15-years-101614190430671.html
24-02-2021||Delhi||Eight of 10 most polluted cities this winter were in Delhi-NCR and UP, finds CSE study||Eight of 10 most polluted cities in the country this winter were located in the Delhi-NCR and Uttar Pradesh region, an analysis by the Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) shows. The CSE’s study, the results of which were released after an extensive analysis of real-time data from cities in different regions, to throw light on the difference between 2020-21 winter and the previous winter, has identified the Delhi-NCR as the most polluted cluster. While Ghaziabad, Bulandshahr and Greater Noida topped the list of most polluted cities in this region, Noida and Delhi were not far behind. Kanpur and Lucknow occupied sixth and ninth positions on the chart, according to the CSE analysis. “Winter is a special challenge when inversion, and the cool and calm weather trap and spike daily pollution. While the northern Indo-Gangetic Plains is the most affected, other regions also experience a rise, but with lesser intensity. But this year, even though the average level of PM2.5 (particulate matter with diameter less than 2.5 micrometres) during summer and monsoon months was considerably lower than the previous year, due to the summer lockdown, the winter PM2.5 concentration rose in many cities across regions as compared to 2019,” said Anumita Roychowdhury, CSE’s executive director and the in-charge of research and advocacy. She further said, “This bouncing back of pollution, post-lockdown, unmasks the high impact of local and regional pollution. This demands quicker regional reforms to curb pollution from vehicles, industry, power plants and waste burning to curb the winter pollution.” This analysis by CSE took into account data from 99 cities across the country, where data availability for two consecutive winters meets the minimum criteria for 75% of days between October 1 and January 31. The analysis also showed that in Delhi, the levels of PM 2.5 showed a “stable trend”. Delhi, along with 14 other cities, showed a less than 8% change in pollution levels this winter season as compared to the previous winter. “This analysis has helped to understand the regional differences in winter pollution. Even though there is considerable regional variation, peak pollution episodes increased and synchronized within the regions during winter. At the same time, uneven rise across monitoring locations and contiguous cities pointed to the impact of local pollution,” says Avikal Somvanshi, programme manager at CSE’s urban lab team, sustainable cities programme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/eight-of-10-most-polluted-cities-this-winter-were-in-delhi-ncr-and-up-finds-cse-study-101614190429357.html
24-02-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt schools to assess students up to class 8 on the basis of worksheets this year||The Delhi government on Wednesday directed all its schools to assess students enrolled from nursery to class 8 on the basis of assignments and worksheets sent to them in both online and offline modes during the Covid-19 pandemic. Irrespective of their assessment, the students enrolled up to class 8 will be promoted to the next class, in accordance with a no-detention policy. The directorate of education (DoE), however, has not issued any guidelines for the city’s private schools. “Private schools will follow their own criteria to assess the learning levels among students up to class 8,” said a senior government official, not wishing to be named.With schools remaining closed for these classes since last March and classes being held online, government schools -- where a majority of students do not have access to smart devices and the internet -- are dependent on worksheets or assignments. These worksheets contain both notes and questions. Students can either access them on their class’s WhatsApp group, or parents can pick up hard copies from schools.In a notification issued on Wednesday, the DoE said, “Since no classroom teaching-learning has taken place at the primary and middle-school level, the formal mode of pen and paper assessment is replaced by assessment based on subject wise assignments/projects in all government and government-aided schools.”“All currently enrolled students from nursery to class 8 shall be promoted to the next class in the academic session 2021-22. However, the purpose of the assessment is to understand the impact of alternate learning approaches that needed to be adopted under the prevailing circumstances this year. Further, the data of this assessment will also help the DoE in determining the course content and learning strategies for the next session,” the DoE notification said. Under the no-detention policy, no student can be failed up to class 8.As per the DoE notification, students from nursery to class 2 will be assessed on the basis of the assignments they were given during the winter break and the responses to online or offline worksheets shared with them during the pandemic. Similarly, the assessment of students enrolled in classes 3 to 8 will be done on the basis of assignments and worksheets submitted by them during the pandemic and winter break. Also, another round of worksheets/assignments will be sent to these students between March 1 and March 15. In case students have no digital devices, assignments/projects to such students will be allotted in hard copy by calling their parents to school,” the notification added.Several private schools said they will also assess students on the basis of internal assessments and will also be conducting online exams. Alka Kapur, principal of Modern Public School, Shalimar Bagh, said, “All students up to class 8 will be promoted to the next class in view of the no-detention policy. But we will assess their learning levels on the basis of their internal assessments and final exams that the school will conduct virtually.”Jyoti Arora, principal of Mount Abu Public School, said, “The exams of students up to class 8 are currently on in the online mode. The school will also be assessing them on the basis of their internal exams and assignments. Everyone will be promoted to the next class.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-schools-to-assess-students-up-to-class-8-on-the-basis-of-worksheets-this-year-101614190430008.html
24-02-2021||Other||10-yr-old girl, woman run over by train in Samba||A 10-year-old girl and woman were crushed to death by a train at a railway gate in Vijaypur area of Samba district on Wednesday evening, officials said.“The minor and woman, aged around 35, were hit by Malwa Express near a railway gate in Vijaypur around 5.30pm,” they said adding that both died on the spot.“We are trying to ascertain their identity. The bodies have been moved to a morgue,” they said.The train was coming from Delhi to Jammu.An FIR has been registered and further investigations have been initiated.2-year-old boy hit by speeding car dies A minor boy died in a road accident in Vijaypur on Wednesday.“A speeding car hit the minor, who was rushed to Vijaypur hospital by the locals from where he was referred to Government Medical College and Hospital, Jammu. He was declared brought dead by the doctors there,” said officials.The deceased has been identified as Shivam, 2, son of Jagram of Rajasthan, presently putting up at ward number 5 in Vijaypur.Police have taken cognisance in the matter. The car and accused driver are being traced, a police official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/10yrold-girl-woman-run-over-by-train-in-samba-101614190428964.html
24-02-2021||Delhi||Okay with reopening Nizamuddin Markaz for religious purposes, Delhi govt tells HC||The Delhi government on Wednesday told the Delhi high court that it is agreeable to reopening the Nizamuddin Markaz premises for religious purposes, after a plea was filed by the Delhi Waqf Board to open the building, which was kept “out of bounds” since March 31, 2020, after several people who attended a Tablighi Jamaat congregation there contracted the Covid-19.Advocate Rahul Mehra, standing counsel for the Delhi government, told Justice Mukta Gupta that many of the foreigners who had attended the congregation in alleged violation of social distancing last year have either been acquitted or have been discharged.He said the trials of the remaining people might take time and the court may pass appropriate orders to resume religious activities on the premises since all places of worship were allowed to reopen last June itself.The submissions were made on the plea by the Delhi Waqf Board, through advocate Wajeeh Shafiq, who had sought that the entire premises, including the masjid, madrassa and hostel, be allowed to be opened.The petitioner said the police can make necessary arrangements to take photographs, prepare sketches, among others, to collect any evidence for the criminal case registered in the alleged violation of social distancing norms at the Tablighi Jamaat congregation at Nizamuddin Markaz.On Wednesday, the Centre, represented by solicitor general Tushar Mehta, said the Union should be made a party to the petition. This was not opposed by senior advocate Ramesh Gupta, appearing for Waqf Board.The court sought the response of the Centre, Delhi government and the city police after the petitioner said it had given a representation to the authorities on February 16 but no action was taken on it yet.The matter would be now heard on March 5.On March 31, the Delhi Police lodged an FIR against several persons, including the cleric and foreign delegates, on a complaint by station house officer of Nizamuddin police station for holding a congregation of Tablighi Jamaat followers in alleged violation of social distancing norms put in place to contain the spread of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/okay-with-reopening-nizamuddin-markaz-for-religious-purposes-delhi-govt-tells-hc-101614190427434.html
24-02-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC raps ACB Thane police for delay in FIR against contractor||The Bombay high court (HC) on Wednesday pulled up the anti-corruption bureau (ACB) unit of Thane Police for not registering a first information report (FIR) based on a complaint lodged against a contractor who had allegedly cheated the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) to the tune of ₹4.54 crore by under-reporting the advertisement revenue collected by him on the 470 bus stops in Thane city since 2013. A complaint was lodged in October 2018 against the contractor with the ACB, but as no action was taken, the public interest litigation (PIL) was filed in the HC in 2019.In December 2019, the court had granted three-months to the ACB to complete its probe and register the FIR, however, the same was not done. After the court rapped it, the ACB assured that it would complete proceedings related to the complaint and register the FIR within one week. A division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni, while hearing the public interest litigation (PIL) filed by advocate Pravin Wategaonkar, was informed that the contractor appointed by the TMC in 2013 for signboard management on the 470 bus-stops in Thane city, had been appointed based on false financial eligibility details. The PIL further stated that the contractor had defaulted in paying the advertising fees to the TMC since the contract began, hence the civic body had issued a demand notice of ₹27.27 crores in 2018. In light of these submissions, the PIL sought to register an FIR against the contractor for misleading the TMC while securing the contract and also siphoning public money. Wategaonkar explained that though the short payment was only ₹4.54 crore, as per the rules, TMC could recover the amount with a five times penalty. Coupled with interest the amount came to ₹27.27 crore and hence the TMC issued the demand notice of the said amount in 2018. After hearing the submissions, the bench sought to know from the ACB as to why it had not complied with the December 2019 order to which chief public prosecutor Deepak Thakare responded that a preliminary report of its inquiry into the allegations had been prepared but the final report was delayed due to the pandemic and hence it could not be completed by March 30, 2020. The HC further stated that as per the stipulation of a Supreme Court judgement the inquiry should be completed within a week and the FIR should be registered soon thereafter and hence the ACB should give an undertaking accordingly. Thakare then assured the court and said that the ACB was giving the undertaking to complete the probe and file the FIR within one week, which was accepted by the HC. Hearing of the PIL has been posted after two weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-raps-acb-thane-police-for-delay-in-fir-against-contractor-101614190370462.html
24-02-2021||Delhi||Transport dept readies command centre to track govt buses in real-time||The Delhi transport department has built a command-and-control centre in Kashmere Gate to track and monitor all Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) and cluster buses in real-time.The centre has been built at the interstate bus terminal (ISBT) in Kashmere Gate and will soon be inaugurated by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, transport minister Kailash Gahlot said on Wednesday after he inspected the facility. “Apart from the command-and-control centre (CCC) at Kashmere Gate, there is a disaster recovery centre, a data centre and separate viewing centres in all depots. The live footage can also be monitored by all depot managers. The CCC shall be manned 24 hours for real-time monitoring of all activities on buses,” Gahlot said.Each bus is now fitted with three cameras, GPS devices, 10 panic buttons, one display panel for the driver, hooter, strobe lights and 2 sets of two-way audio communication devices, one each for the driver and conductor. “All newly inducted buses and to-be inducted buses already have all these systems installed on them which will be integrated with the CCC at Kashmere Gate,” the minister said.All depot managers, drivers, conductors and marshals on board buses have completed their training related to the operation of the installed systems.Delhi currently has around 6,750 buses -- 3,760 DTC and 2,990 cluster buses-- as against the Supreme Court-mandated requirement of 11,000 buses. In case of an emergency, a passenger or driver or conductor can press the panic button. The alert will automatically be sent to the CCC at Kashmere Gate in real-time. The operator at the CCC will filter the alerts and forward the alert to the respective stakeholder such as police, fire and ambulance for a quick response with the GPS coordinates of the bus. An SMS and an email alert will also be sent to the authorities concerned in synchronization with these panic alerts, the government said in a statement. “The objective of the project is to ensure the safety and security of passengers, especially women passengers through IP-based CCTV surveillance cameras, panic button and GPS on the buses of DTC and those under the cluster scheme. After the inspection, I also held a meeting with transport officials to discuss issues related to the functioning of the CCC. I have instructed officials to submit a daily report about data monitoring and operation,” Gahlot said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/transport-dept-readies-command-centre-to-track-govt-buses-in-realtime-101614190368159.html
24-02-2021||Other||Kejriwal leads roadshows ahead of MCD bypolls, blames BJP for corruption in civic bodies||New Delhi: Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) of corruption and blamed them for the poor financial condition of the municipal corporations in Delhi (MCD) during a roadshow in north Delhi’s Bawana, where he also promised to sanction ₹100 crore for a sewer project in the area.Kejriwal, who is also the national convener of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), led two roadshows on Wednesday in Bawana and Shalimar Bagh campaigning for candidates of the party ahead of municipal bypolls in five wards scheduled on Sunday. Hundreds of AAP supporters participated in the roadshow navigating the localities in two-wheelers and trucks, playing music.“I got to know that people have been demanding sewer line in Bawana. It is my promise that I will sanction ₹100 crores for the sewer project here,” said Kejriwal. He added, “The AAP has been actively campaigning against the corruption by the BJP. The MCDs are in a shambles because of their corruption.”“Together, the people of Delhi have defeated Covid-19, the pandemic has created havoc in the lives of the people. We have elections on Sunday, you all must go and vote for AAP. How many of you receive zero electricity bills? 24x7 free electricity has happened only in Delhi. We have worked to make Delhi better in the last six years by improving schools, hospitals, availability of electricity, and water. It is your responsibility to make AAP victorious in the MCD, together we have to change the face of MCD.” While the AAP is in power in the Delhi government, BJP rules all three municipal corporations. Delhi goes to the municipal polls in 2022. The BJP dismissed the allegations as baseless.Delhi BJP general secretary Shri Harsh Malhotra said, “The AAP government has not done any development work in Bawana, Shalimar Bagh and several other areas. Their leaders were unavailable during the Covid-19 crisis. They will get appropriate response from the people of these wards in the bypolls on Sunday. The promise of ₹100 crore for sewer line at this point speaks volumes about the poor condition of these areas.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kejriwal-leads-roadshows-ahead-of-mcd-bypolls-blames-bjp-for-corruption-in-civic-bodies-101614190367406.html
24-02-2021||Noida||Residents protest anti-encroachment drive||Residents of Sarfabad village stopped a Noida Authority’s anti-encroachment drive team from demolishing shops there on WednesdayOfficials part of the team said the farmers claimed ownership of the land following which they decided to postpone the demolition drive.The team comprising land department officials had gone to the village located on the main road that links Noida with Greater Noida West at around 11am with two earthmovers and around 50 constables. They had intended to recover around 340 square metres of encroachment.“We had freed around 50 square metres when farmers arrived showing some papers that claimed the land was theirs. We decided to postpone the drive so that we can re-verify the documents and then take appropriate action,” said Rajiv Mohan Saxena, tehsildar and head of the Noida Authority’s anti-encroachment cell.The authority’s chief executive officer Ritu Maheshwari had earlier ordered an inspection of the village.Village residents alleged that the authority was harassing them.“In 2001, the Allahabad high court had decided that the land in question was not of the authority. Today morning, they suddenly tried to demolish our shops. We protested and showed them papers. We hope that the authority will not harass us in future,” said Gaurav Yadav, farmer from Sarfabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/residents-protest-anti-encroachment-drive-101614190308497.html
24-02-2021||Mumbai||BJP leader files PIL in Bombay HC against Mumbai mayor||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Kirit Somaiya has filed public interest litigation (PIL) in the Bombay high court (HC) against Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar for acquiring and making personal use of tenements in the Worli Slum Rehabilitation Authority (SRA) project by misusing her position as a councillor and mayor.The PIL has alleged that as the official residential address given by the mayor for the BMC elections 2017, is one of these tenements and a company managed by her son also operates from another tenement meant for residential purposes.The PIL has sought investigation by concerned authorities and has also sought disqualification of the mayor. The court has asked respondent authorities and the mayor to respond to the PIL within three weeks. However, when HT tried to contact the mayor, her phone was switched off and her office said that she was not available for comment on the issue. The division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni, while hearing the PIL, was informed that Somaiya had filed several complaints with the Registrar of Companies (ROC), Enforcement Directorate, BMC and SRA for reporting the illegal activities of the company and its directors. He submitted that though the authorities were aware of the illegalities conducted by Pednekar they had failed to initiate any action against her and hence the PIL. The PIL alleged that the company operating from one of the tenements was floated by Pednekar in 2012, but she resigned from it and was being managed by her son. Somiaya submitted that as per Registrar of Companies (ROC) records, the company and several other companies were having their registered address as the ground floor tenements of Gomata Janata SRA Cooperative Society, Lower Parel. He added that another tenement on the higher floor was also occupied as a residence by Pednekar since 2008 and she had submitted her official residential address for 2017 BMC elections as the same tenement, which was incidentally allotted in the name of another person. In view of this, the PIL has sought from the respondent authorities including SRA, BMC and Ministry of Corporate Affairs to initiate action against Pednekar and others and also sought a direction to initiate criminal action against them. Somaiya has also sought to pass appropriate directions restraining Pednekar from continuing her position as Mayor. After hearing the submissions by Somiaya the court asked the authorities and the mayor to respond to the PIL within three weeks and posted the hearing of the PIL on March 24.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bjp-leader-files-pil-in-bombay-hc-against-mumbai-mayor-101614190307948.html
24-02-2021||Noida||Fight against Covid-19 not over, be very cautious: UP govt||The Uttar Pradesh government on Wednesday warned people against complacency in the wake of rising Covid-19 cases in several states in the country. In particular, they asked people to follow precautions as they did when the virus was first detected in March last year.Uttar Pradesh had seen a decline since the peak of 68,235 active Covid-19 cases on September 27, 2020. Gautam Budh Nagar had a peak of 2,008 active cases on September 13, 2020 and Ghaziabad had it on September 14, 2020 with 2,126 cases. On Wednesday, there were only 59 active cases in Gautam Budh Nagar and 61 active cases in Ghaziabad, while for the state as a whole was 2,190. Deaths too had declined considerably.“People think that Covid-19 is finished (in the state) but that is wrong. People are still getting infected, and it is especially rising in four or five states. So, it is vital that precautions like what were taken up in the months of March to June last year be observed strictly as our state has large population and the population density is also high,” said UP’s additional chief secretary (health) Amit Mohan Prasad.In March, the Union government had enforced a nationwide lockdown that lasted 68 days after which the economy opened up in phases. “We urge that the mohalla nigrani samitis in urban areas and gram nigrani samitis in rural areas be active again so that infection is checked and does not spread,” said Prasad. The samitis were formed to check on infected persons, their home isolation status and even to inform the health department on possible cases and violation of Covid-19 protocols. With fewer active Covid-19 cases in Ghaziabad, the district had reduced the number of hospitals dedicated to treating the infected -- from 14 to just three.District health department officials said that had an eye on the daily case count and, if need be, could convert private and government health care facilities into Covid facilities with five days’ notice. “We have not witnessed any major spike in cases over the last few months but we are reviewing daily progress. The Covid cases in high case load localities like Indirapuram, Shastri Nagar and Vaishali among others have also decreased. However, we are in a position to tackle any surge and our Covid hospitals can resume Covid-related treatment within five days,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer. “Three hospitals were asked to reduce the Covid capacity by about 50% but they still have Covid facility running. In case need be, we have released the other hospitals on condition that they will come up with Covid treatment in five days if required. Only our acquired facility of Santosh Medical is in operation which is also serving as L2 and L3 facility with 200 beds each,” Dr Gupta, added. The figures of the health department indicate that at least five residential segments of Bhowapur (comprising of locality like Kaushmabi), Khoda, Vijay Nagar I, Pasonda and Kaila Bhatta have no cases reported in the current month till February 23. This is for the first time since last year that these localities have recorded zero cases so far. The district at present has a figure of 167 Covid cases which have arrived in first 23 days of February. The state control room figure of February 23 states that the district has total of 26733 cases which include 26569 patients discharged and 62 active cases besides 102 deaths.The sample positivity of cases saw a decline below 1% in January and also in the current month of February. The figures also indicate that only six segments comprising of Indirapuram (34 cases), Shastri Nagar (35), Vaishali (13), Vasundhara 918), Sadik Nagar (16) and Modinagar (10) have Covid cases in double digits till February 23. “Although there is no spike in UP at present, but people are not adhering to Covid protocols and need to take up precautions like wearing face mask, washing hands frequently and maintaining social distancing. The Covid cases emerged in March last year in Ghaziabad and peaked in subsequent months. So, all precautions must be maintained so that there is no repeat of the scenario,” said Dr Asheesh Agrawal, president of the Indian Medical Association – Ghaziabad, while adding that the health department must expedite vaccination process.The Centre has deputed high level multi-disciplinary teams to states like Maharashtra, Kerala, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Punjab, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal and Union Territory (UT) of Jammu and Kashmir for supporting them in public health measures for targeted Covid response and management, and effectively tackling the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/fight-against-covid-19-not-over-be-very-cautious-up-govt-101614190187409.html
24-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: IIT-B students who discovered closest asteroid to Earth recognised by ASI||Three students of the Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B), who had last year discovered the closest asteroid to have crossed the Earth without touching it, have been recognised by the Astronomical Society of India (ASI). Kritti Sharma, Kunal Deshmukh and Harsh Kumar received special mention under the ‘New Discovery Award 2020’ from the ASI. In August last year, the students discovered an SUV-sized asteroid that soared barely 2,950 km above the surface of the Earth. Named ‘2020 QG’, this was then the closest known asteroid to fly by the planet without impacting it. On August 16, the students, who are part of a large international collaboration searching for Near-Earth Asteroids, discovered this object just hours after it passed by the Earth using data from the robotic Zwicky Transient Facility (ZTF) in California. While this record was surpassed by a comet 2020 VT4 discovered by the ATLAS telescope system in November 2020, the students at IIT-B have been recognised by the ASI, one of the largest groups of professional astronomers in the country. “It is nice to be recognised. It encourages us to continue our work in the field,” said Sharma, a 21-year-old hailing from Panchkula in Haryana.“Kunal Deshmukh and Kritti Sharma, students at the IIT-B, play an essential role in asteroid discovery using the Caltech Zwicky Transient Facility (ZTF) in California. They scan images for candidate asteroids in near-real-time as they are taken by ZTF and consequently allow very fast identification of exciting asteroids such as 2020 QG. Fast identification is essential so that other telescopes around the world can perform follow-up observations to determine the orbit of the asteroid. If it were not for their work, 2020 QG would have only been found hours later, losing crucial time for additional observations,” said Thomas Prince, Ira S Bowen, professor of physics; Allen VC Davis and Lenabelle Davis, leadership chair, Keck Institute for Space Studies; Jet Propulsion Laboratory, senior research scientist and director, WM Keck Institute for Space Studies at Caltech.IIT-B director Subhasis Chaudhuri said, “The trio routinely uses the GROWTH-India telescope to image and verify asteroid candidates found in sky surveys, and report the results to the Minor Planet Centre of the International Astronomical Union. Between them, they have discovered over 43 asteroids in the last one and a half years, with more being added each week.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-iit-b-students-who-discovered-closest-asteroid-to-earth-recognised-by-asi-101614190128324.html
24-02-2021||Pune||PMC garden dept claims loss of ₹11 cr since lockdown||The Pune municipal corporation’s garden department is claiming to have sustained losses to the tune of ₹11 crore, ever since lockdown was first announced in 2020. Pune has 200 public gardens. The public gardens opened this year and entry fees are the only source of revenue currently. Ashok Ghorpade, the superintendent of gardens, said, “The garden department used to conduct exhibitions of flowers, fruits and vegetables and sell plant saplings which used to bring in revenue. Between 30,000 and 45,000 saplings a year were sold at reasonable rates to citizens, but this had to be shut down due to Covid-19. We used to organise fort festivals and environment- related events which fetched us revenue. We hardly earned around ₹1 crore during the past 11 months.” “We have lost ₹11 crore since the first lockdown last year,” Ghorpade added. Citizen activist Ramesh Patankar said, “The garden department deserves more funding than any other department of the PMC. The PMC is earning crores of rupees in the name of development charges.The mandate of the garden department must be enhanced and a large number of new gardens must be created to balance the environment which is threatened by real estate developers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-garden-dept-claims-loss-of-rs-11-cr-since-lockdown-101614190068714.html
24-02-2021||Pune||Residents raise safety issues at BRT bus stations||With the Swargate-Katraj BRT corridor finally operational, issues have been raised about safety at bus stations. Pedestrian First, convenor, Prashant Inamdar, has written to the PMPML raising a concern about there being no automatic doors provided at bus stations, which is an essential infrastructural requirement for the BRTS design. “The bus station platform is at a height of about 900mm from the road level. Hence, in the absence of automatic doors, there is a high probability of commuters falling from a height into the bus lane, resulting in a grave injury or even fatality,” said Inamdar. According to Inamdar, the earlier pilot BRTS corridor design for the Swargate-Katraj corridor had separate curb-side bus stops for each direction. “These bus stops were of the conventional type, suitable for bus entry/exit through doorways with steps. Even though this BRTS corridor was working well, PMC decided to dismantle and reconstruct it as per the BRTS design with median bus station common for both directions and level boarding (bus station platform and bus floor at same level). This total renewal of the Swargate-Katraj corridor was done reportedly at a cost of about Rs100 crore. After shutting down the BRTS corridor for years and spending such a large amount of public money, the least that citizens expect is that the new BRTS corridor should be complete and safe in all respects,” he added. Automatic doors are a vital necessity, so that the doors open automatically only when the bus properly docks at the bus station platform, and again close when the bus moves away from the station. Electronic sensors need to be provided at the bus station and on every bus for this automatic operation of doors. PMPML’s divisional manager, BRTS, said, “We are aware of this issue and have written to PMC to work on getting the automatic doors fixed.” In response, a PMC official on condition of anonymity, said: “For automated doors to operate, the PMPML buses should have the radio frequency identification (RFID) system, which is not available in all PMPML buses. There is no point in spending Rs1 crore on something which isn’t used properly by the transport body.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/residents-raise-safety-issues-at-brt-bus-stations-101614190067985.html
24-02-2021||Pune||PMC unearths 42,000 properties, adds ₹211 crore to revenue corpus||The property tax department has unearthed 42,000 additional properties which were outside the purview of the tax structure and would now add an additional ₹211 crore to the PMC revenue corpus every year. The tax department has sent notices to all the owners seeking property tax for 2020-2021 with the objective of increasing its revenue collection base in the city. PMC deputy commissioner (property tax) Vilas Kanade said, “This is a record of sorts for PMC as we have added 42,000 additional properties under the property net. The annual property earning of PMC will increase by ₹211 crore. The number of properties identified for revenue collection each year has doubled this time.” The property tax department sought help from the solid waste management staff to look into the rise of usage of new properties where completion certificates were given to occupants. Also, the department focused on those completed residential and commercial projects which were being used and accordingly sent them intimations and notices seeking property tax from them. The civic body has also decided to give a flat at 15% concession in property tax to those occupants who have paid property tax on time. The proposal was unanimously approved by the general body on Thursday which states that if the tax for the next financial year is paid by May 31, the property owners will receive a 15 per cent discount on all taxes levied by the civic body. Citizens who have paid a lump-sum tax during the Covid-19 pandemic from April 1, 2020, to Sept 30, 2020, will receive relief in property tax in the coming financial year (2021-22). In order to avail the benefit, property tax has to be paid by May 31. While presenting the budget for the upcoming financial year, PMC municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar proposed an 11 per cent increase in property tax which was rejected by the standing committee in a special meeting. GFX Header: 2020 tax collection at a glance Info: The Pune Municipal Corporation set a new record in 2020 with the introduction of the amnesty scheme for property tax. In total, the civic body collected a total of ₹1,370 crore in taxes last year. Total tax collected in 2020: ₹1,370 crore Total tax waived under amnesty scheme: ₹211.87 crore Target for tax collection in 2021: ₹2,356 crore Total outstanding arrears: ₹5,000 crore The Amnesty Scheme success Total tax due before scheme: ₹700 crore Total number of defaulters: 2,43,814 Total tax collected under amnesty scheme: ₹487.92 crore Number of defaulters who paid tax: 1,49,771 Total number of registered properties in Pune: 10.89 lakh||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-unearths-42-000-properties-adds-rs-211-crore-to-revenue-corpus-101614190067305.html
24-02-2021||Noida||Man kills wife over illicit relation; surrenders two days later||Greater Noida: A 26-year-old man allegedly killed his wife over suspicions of an illicit relation on Monday, and surrendered before Beta 2 police on Wednesday. The suspect had tried to dump the body in a sewer, said police. The couple lived in a rented accommodation in Sector Alpha 2. The suspect, Rajnikant Dixit, had married the 24-year-old woman 10 months ago, police said, adding that the deceased was a native of Hapur while Dixit is from Etah. Vishal Pandey, additional deputy commissioner of police, Greater Noida, said that Dixit worked as a network engineer at a private telecom firm in Noida. Pandey said that on February 21, Dixit had left for work and returned home in the evening. “The suspect found his wife with a third person, which led to a heated argument. The third person, a resident of Haryana, left the spot while the couple quarrelled with each other that evening,” he said.Police said that the next day, on February 22, Dixit and his wife again fought with each other. “During the quarrel, the suspect held his wife’s neck which led to her death by strangulation. It appears he killed the woman incidentally,” said Pandey. After the incident, Dixit panicked. Police said that the suspect first tried to dig a pit in the house to bury the body but he failed. He also tried to dump the body in a sewage line, police said, adding that the woman was pregnant. Police said the suspect then informed his family members about the incident. The family advised him to surrender before police and cooperate in the investigation. On Wednesday, Dixit reached Sector Beta 2 police station and confessed to the crime, police said.A police team visited the rented accommodation and found the woman’s body in the house. The body was sent for post-mortem and a medical report is awaited, the additional DCP said.“We have registered a case against the suspect under Section 302 (murder) of Indian Penal Code. He was produced in court and sent to judicial custody,” Pandey said. Police have also informed the woman’s family members in Hapur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/man-kills-wife-over-illicit-relation-surrenders-two-days-later-101614189588039.html
24-02-2021||Noida||Tikait to Govt: Be serious about talks on farm laws||Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait on Wednesday asked the Union government to send a representative who had the power to resolve issues concerning the farm laws.This came a day after his elder brother and BKU president Naresh Tikait suggested that Union defence minister Rajnath Singh could end the stalemate between farmers and the government.Thousands of farmers are camping at UP Gate and other borders near the national capital demanding the repeal of the three farm laws, and a new law on minimum support price (MSP). Tikait, who is spearheading the farmers’ protest at UP Gate, said at a rally in Sikar in Rajasthan on Tuesday that a call will be given for going to the Parliament on a date chosen by the ‘Samyukt Kisan Morcha’ (SKM) which is body of farmers’ unions leaders at Singhu border. He also said that about 4 million tractors will also participate from across the country. Tikait returned to UP Gate on Wednesday and reiterated his stand over the call for going to the Parliament and said that any date for it should be given by the SKM. Over the issue of ending stalemate and statements made by Naresh Tikait about Rajnath Singh, Rakesh Tikait said that it could be “anyone” from the government who should engage in talks with the farmers. “We mean to say that it could be anyone that government can send for talks, but they should be given full-fledged powers. They are sending their ministers for talks, but they don’t come with full powers and their powers seem curtailed. Otherwise, they would have resolved our issues by now. We still demand repeal of three farm laws, a new law on MSP,” Tikait told reporters at UP-Gate on Wednesday. “We have not been approached for any talks as of now,” Tikait added. The last talks between the farmers’ union leaders and the government were held on January 22 and thereafter no talks could be scheduled. His brother Naresh Tikait on Tuesday at UP Gate said that Union Minister Rajnath Singh was a good man and had been a former chief minister of Uttar Pradesh who understands issues of farmers and can help resolve the stalemate. Rakesh Tikait on the other hand is holding rallies in the National Capital Region and garnering support of farmers, khaps and common man. In his rallies he has maintained that he is looking after consolidating the agitation while the government should hold talks with the SKM over the issue of rollback of farm laws and a new law on MSP. Ever since the protests started in end of November 2020, the farmer leaders so far have not budged and reiterating their demands. The government also put forward a proposal in which they proposed that they were ready to hold the implementation of the three farm laws for a period of one and half years. However, the farmer leaders did not accept the proposal. Meanwhile on Wednesday, Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar responded to Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait’s call for a second tractor march to Delhi. Tomar said that the government is ready to discuss the demands of the farmers and is committed to the welfare of the farmers. “The government of India is committed to double farmers’ income and work towards agriculture’s welfare. Discussions have been held many times. If they have a point to raise even now, we are ready to discuss,” Tomar told reporters in Delhi. At UP Gate, Rakesh Tikait, before leaving for another Panchayat at Agra on Wednesday, further suggested that vacant parks near the Parliament could be given for farming for crops. “They should form a Parliamentary committee and it should observe farming of crop in the parks near the Parliament and even sell it in market. With this, they will be able to assess if there is any loss or profit in farming,” Tikait said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/tikait-to-govt-be-serious-about-talks-on-farm-laws-101614189587311.html
24-02-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad: Man gets life imprisonment for raping niece||Ghaziabad: A Ghaziabad court awarded life imprisonment to a man, 30, on Wednesday for allegedly raping and impregnating his niece.The man repeatedly raped the 15-year-old girl at her house in the Link Road area for two years, before she got pregnant and developed complications in April 2018, said the prosecution.He lived near to the victim’s house.Despite receiving threats from her uncle, on April 26, 2018, she told her mother about the assault on her.“Her mother took her to a doctor, and later to a government hospital in Delhi where she underwent an abortion. She was four-month pregnant at that time. Later, the family filed a complaint in the matter. An FIR was registered, and the man was arrested,” said Utkarsh Vats, special public prosecutor, (POCSO Act).A charge sheet was filed against him and he faced a trail under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections of 376 (rape) and 506 (criminal intimidation), and various provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POCSO).“The girl is around 17 years old. The court awarded life imprisonment to the man and slapped a penalty of ₹1.20 lakh following the trial,” Vats said, adding that the judgment was pronounced by Mahendra Srivastava, special judge (POCSO Act).The victim has proved her statement before the police, and also supported the prosecution case. She asserted that “her uncle had raped her several times and threatened her not to reveal it to anyone”.The man raped the girl when her parents used to be at work, the prosecution said.The defense team, on the other hand, contended during the trial that the period of the incident was not ascertained. It also said that the convict had an altercation with the girl’s father over money. The girl worked as a domestic help and it is possible that “someone else may have impregnated the girl”, according to the court order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-man-gets-life-imprisonment-for-raping-niece-101614189467228.html
24-02-2021||Noida||Woman, three others arrested for staging theft at her own house||Ghaziabad: The district police on Tuesday night arrested four persons, including a woman, for allegedly faking a theft incident at her own house at Vijay Nagar. The woman had claimed that two unidentified persons barged into her house on night of February 21 and fled with cash and jewellery worth ₹10 lakh, police said. The suspects were identified as Puja Kumar, 24, her mother Rajkumari Singh, 48, driver Vinod Kumar, 45, and jeweller Gajendra Soni, 55. The woman is married for two years with the Vijay Nagar resident while the three others are residents of Hathras district, police said. According to police, while her husband and in-laws were not at home on the night of the incident, suspect Puja claimed that the two unidentified persons gave her sedatives and fled with the valuables. “An investigation was launched into the incident and we found several events suspicious. Till the time of the incident, the woman was speaking to someone over phone which was not possible if she had been given sedatives. Further, she spoke several times to the driver whose location was found in Ghaziabad later. In fact, her mother had left behind her phone at her house in Hathras and came to Ghaziabad with the driver and was using his phone during the incident,” said Abhay Kumar Mishra, circle officer (city 1). Police said that once the driver was questioned, he revealed the plot and said that he and Rajkumari had come to Puja’s house and took away valuables as part of the plan. Also, one of the neighbours of Puja had visited her house at the time of the incident and did not find her in a state of drowsiness, police said.“During questioning, it was revealed that Rajkumari recently developed habit of investing money in betting and wanted more money. So, she contacted Puja and it was planned that they would make it look like an incident of theft. But their plan was foiled,” CO added. Police said that the jeweller was arrested as Rajkumari had sold him some of the stolen jewellery in order to get money. They said that most of the gold and silver jewellery and ₹1.10 lakh in cash were recovered from the possession of the suspects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/woman-three-others-arrested-for-staging-theft-at-her-own-house-101614188507119.html
24-02-2021||Noida||50-year-old woman found murdered near home in Dankaur||Greater Noida: A 50-year-old woman was found murdered outside her home on Tuesday night in Greater Noida’s Dankaur. According to police officers, her head had been smashed with bricks and the body found near a tree. A case has been registered and an investigation has been launched into the matter.The deceased was identified as Urmila, a resident of Chapargarh village in Dankaur. She lived with her husband, Ninder Singh, in a rented accommodation. Rajesh Kumar Singh, deputy commissioner of police, Greater Noida, said that the victim and her husband worked as street food vendors in the neighbourhood. “Ninder said he and his wife had returned from work at 9pm, soon after which he realised he had forgotten his sweater at his food stall, which is about 100 metres away. He went to bring the sweater and in his absence, someone murdered his wife,” he said.Police said Ninder returned home and found his wife missing. The lights at the house were off. He looked for her but failed to trace her. He then informed the local police who visited the spot and found the woman’s body a few metres from her house.The police also found bloodstains in the kitchen. “It appears the criminal attacked the woman in the kitchen when she was preparing for dinner and she fled the spot to save her life. The suspect again attacked her outside her home and she died,” said Singh. A team of forensic experts and a dog squad gathered evidence from the crime spot.Police said the victim’s husband is allegedly an alcoholic. “The distance from their home to the food stall is 100 metres which can be covered in one-two minutes. Ninder returned after ten minutes of the incident. We have registered a case of murder against unknown persons under Section 302 of the IPC and we are investigating the matter from all angles,” the DCP said.The body has been sent for a post-mortem and a medical report is awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/50yearold-woman-found-murdered-near-home-in-dankaur-101614188447270.html
24-02-2021||Gurugram||Court awards life imprisonment to mother, son for dowry death||A local court awarded life imprisonment to a man and his mother on Wednesday after finding them guilty of murdering a 24-year-old woman in 2016 over dowry. The police said the deceased, Rekha, got married to one Bhupender Swami, a resident of Dayanand Colony of Gurugram, in July 2015. At the time of the wedding, her father had spent a considerable amount of money on ceremonial rituals and gifts. However, according to the police, Rekha’s in-laws were unhappy with the dowry and started forcing her to bring ₹10 lakh from her father. After continuous torture and harassment, Rekha’s family in March 2016 gave her in-laws a washing machine and ₹2 lakh in cash but this failed to end the harassment and torture, the police said. A month later, Rekha was thrashed by her in-laws and was admitted to hospital, the police said. In June 2016, Rekha’s family members were informed about her sudden death. Her in-laws informed her family members that she had committed suicide. The family members alleged that there were marks on her body and that she was killed by her in-laws for dowry. “They started torturing her from the beginning of marriage and within 10 months, they killed her even after getting additional gift and money,” said Rekha’s brother Vishnu Singh, a resident of Rewari. On the basis of the complaint, a case was registered under sections 304B (dowry death), 498A (dowry) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at Sector 5 police station against the victim’s husband, Bhupender Swami, father-in-law Hari Kishan, mother-in-law Bimla and sister-in-law Suman and her husband Suresh. KS Rao, counsel for complainant, said that, during the investigation, the police added section 302 (murder) to the charge sheet. “In April 2019, Punjab and Haryana high court quashed the charges against Suman and Suresh and in the meantime father-in-law died a year ago,” he said. Additional sessions judge Ashwani Kumar in his order on Wednesday, observed that the husband and in-laws behaved in an inhuman manner with an innocent girl and were responsible for her brutal death within 10 months of her marriage. Keeping in view the gravity of the offence and other facts and circumstances of the case, the accused do not deserve any leniency from the court. Bhupender and his mother Bimla were awarded life imprisonment and the court imposed a penalty of ₹2.5 lakh on them. At the time of the judgment, Bhupender was in custody and Bimla was out on bail. Bimla was taken into custody and sent to Bhondsi jail from the court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/court-awards-life-imprisonment-to-mother-son-for-dowry-death-101614188388838.html
24-02-2021||Gurugram||Warmest day of year so far, visibility up in early hours as severity of fog decreases||The city experienced its warmest day of the year so far on Wednesday, with the maximum temperature touching 31 degrees Celsius during the day. While the India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) automatic weather station (AWS) for Gurugram did not record the minimum temperature for the day, the nearest AWS at the Palam observatory in Delhi recorded a minimum temperature at 14.2 degrees Celsius, also the highest it has been this year so far.With rising temperatures, episodes of fog have also become less severe over the past two to three days, improving visibility on city streets during the early hours. As per official forecasts, the maximum daytime temperature will hover around 31 degrees Celsius for at least the next three days, while the minimum temperature will also remain between 13 and 14 degrees Celsius.A slight dip in mercury may be felt between February 28 and March 1, as per the IMD’s seven-day weather forecast for Gurugram. Instead of moderate to dense episodes of fog, a light mist is expected to prevail for the next three to four days.Air quality, meanwhile, remained in the poor category of the Central Pollution Control Board’s air quality index (AQI) for the fifth consecutive day on Wednesday, with a reading of 265 on the daily pollution bulletin — slightly worse than the AQI of 246 recorded a day prior. The average level of ultrafine particulate matter having a diameter of 2.5 microns or less (PM 2.5), the city’s primary pollutant, was 263 micrograms per cubic metre (µg/m³) on Sunday, as per the CPCB’s air quality monitor at Vikas Sadan in Sector 11. At the official monitor in Sector 51, the PM 2.5 concentration stood at 301µg/m3.As per official forecasts, pollution levels are unlikely to reach the very poor category (when the AQI crosses 300) as rising temperatures and increasing wind speeds will continue to disperse airborne pollutants. “With each day, the diffusion of pollutants becomes easier due to both vertical and horizontal movement of air, which is a result of warmer conditions setting in. The air is becoming less dense, allowing easier dispersal of pollutants even at lower wind speeds,” said VK Soni, head of the IMD’s environment monitoring and research centre.As per the early air quality warning system for Delhi-NCR, “Air quality is likely to improve marginally and remain in poor category owing to better ventilation conditions over the next five days.”A significant improvement, however, may be felt on February 26, when winds are expected to touch speeds of 12 to 15kmph, up from the prevailing speeds of 8 to 10kmph.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/warmest-day-of-year-so-far-visibility-up-in-early-hours-as-severity-of-fog-decreases-101614188388248.html
24-02-2021||Gurugram||AIMTC distances itself from truckers’ strike but local transporters to participate||All India Motor Transport Congress (AIMTC) — an umbrella body of transporters across the country — on Wednesday distanced itself from the proposed truckers’ strike on February 26 and said that it has submitted its demands to the government and given it a time period of 14 days for consideration.AIMTC said that the key demands of road transporters are reduction in diesel prices, uniform diesel prices across the country, resolution of issues pertaining to e-way bills and GST, changes in scrapping policy of vehicles, among others. The association said that the strike on February 26 was called by a traders’ body and they would not participate in it. “If the government fails to address the problems and consider demands of the industry, then another governing council meeting will be held and the road transport fraternity of India will be compelled to surrender their vehicles and declare a nationwide suspension of transport operations. The demands should have an overarching importance, must be comprehensive in nature, and reflect the voice of the fraternity in totality,” said Kultaran Singh Atwal, president, AIMTC, in a statement issued on Wednesday. He also said that motor transport congress does not endorse the strike call on February 26, Booking offices of transport companies will remain open and truckers will ply on road. Gurugram-based truckers, however, said that those transporters, who are engaged in retail operations and operate locally, will participate in the strike. “Around two lakh transport vehicles, which operate on a retail basis, will participate in the strike to protest against rise in the prices of diesel, e-way bills and high rate of toll fees in Haryana,” said Hukam Chand Sharma, president, All Haryana Truck and Transport Association. Sharma added that truckers are facing lot of difficulties due to rising fuel prices and norms pertaining to e-way bills. An e-way bill is a system to ensure that goods being transported comply with the GST laws. This helps to track movement of goods and check tax evasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/aimtc-distances-itself-from-truckers-strike-but-local-transporters-to-participate-101614188387738.html
24-02-2021||Gurugram||Air pollution higher this winter than previous year, finds report||A report by the Centre for Science and Environment (CSE), comparing air pollution levels between the winter of 2020 with that of the previous year, has revealed that average air pollution was higher this winter in the city. However both Gurugram and Faridabad reported better air quality than Delhi. The institute came to the conclusion after studying granular real-time data of particulate matter (PM) 2.5 (15-minute averages) for 99 cities including 49 cities from Northern India from the Central Pollution Control Board’s (CPCB) official online portal, called Central Control Room for Air Quality Management, from October 1, 2019 till January 31, 2020, and from October 1, 2020 till January 31, 2021. Analysing the data, the CSE report states that 26 cities in the region, including Gurugram, shows an increasing trend in air pollution, recording over 8% increase from last winter. As per the report, Faridabad and Gurugram are in the top 20 cities according to the PM 2.5 levels during the winter.Gurugram was ranked 16 with a 9% increase in the average PM 2.5 levels during the winter and 8% increase in peak levels of PM 2.5. At rank 14, Faridabad reported an 8% decrease in the average PM 2.5 levels during the winter and 14% decrease in peak (seasonal peak of a city is based on mean of the highest daily PM2.5) levels of PM 2.5. The seasonal peak of a city is based on mean of the highest daily PM2.5.Both the cities, however, ranked below other cities of the National Capital Region (NCR), like Ghaziabad (ranked at 1), Greater Noida, Noida, Delhi (which were among the top five cities). Reacting to cities of Haryana reporting lesser air pollution compared to other cities of NCR, S Narayanan, member secretary of Haryana State Pollution Control Board(HSPCB) said, “Compared to the last winter season, this winter, we took a lot of steps to control air pollution. We took steps under Graded Response Action Plan (Grap) along with increased night patrolling to monitor industrial emissions. This winter, we also strictly arrested air pollution through banning firecrackers during the festive season. Along with these measures, rainfall also helped in controlling air pollution, especially cities like Gurugram and Faridabad.” Avikal Somvanshi, programme manager for sustainable cities with CSE, said, “The analysis is based on comparison with the previous winter (2019-2020) when the weather conditions were different and rainfall activity was higher compared to the current outgoing winter season. Rainfall activity helps in washing down of pollutants, PM 2.5 in this case. This year, i.e. 2020-2021, we did not witness as much rain, which could be one of the reasons for higher seasonal average.” He added that measures taken by authorities to control air pollution also had a role to play in the decreased data for peak winter pollution. “Peak pollution is usually reported when smog accumulates. With the latest data analysis, we can see that peak has been reducing over the years. When measures like shutting down of construction activities and shutting down of brick kilns through the Grap is imposed, it helps a lot in controlling the peak pollution,” added Somvanshi. Meanwhile, Haryana did not have any cities in the top ten most polluted cities of Northern India, however, eight cities were listed in top 20. Fatehabad saw a jump of 228% in the seasonal average. Meanwhile, Bhiwani and Palwal recorded the lowest seasonal average during the 2020-21 winter with over 60% drop from the previous season.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/air-pollution-higher-this-winter-than-previous-year-finds-report-101614188387154.html
24-02-2021||Gurugram||DTCP to create a database of affordable housing projects in city||A database of residential units and housing projects being developed under the affordable category will be created by the department of town and country planning (DTCP), which, on Wednesday, issued notices to 36 developers, seeking details of 95 such projects they are involved with in the city. Around 40,000 residential units are under various phases of development under this segment, and the department said that more such projects are in the offing as the government has eased many norms related to area under development, project size, car park and commercial aspects. Sanjeev Mann, senior town planner, said that notices have been issued to developers to submit details of total residential units, units under construction, alloted units, cancelled units and balance units with the developer. “All these details will be compiled and uploaded to a database so that real-time information is available regarding the availability of affordable housing units and ensure balanced growth. We have already received details about real estate projects being developed under normal category,” said Mann. DTCP officials also said that regular updates will also help them keep a tab on projects that are delayed. “At present the department gets information about delays after buyers lodge complaints but real-time data gathering will help in keeping a check on these issues,” said an official, who said that completing projects in time was crucial under affordable category as developers were bound to complete projects in four years under the rules The database of affordable projects, officials said will also help the department in forming policies based on the demand cycle as affordable units have been highest-selling segment during the last two years. The decision to compile this information has been taken as a number of complaints have been received regarding re-allotment of cancelled units by developers without holding draws, said officials. Mann also said that they will also investigate complaints pertaining to developers, charging a premium on allotment of plots under Deen Dayal Upadhyay Awas Yojana, which is meant for affordable category housing. In another development, the enforcement team of DTCP carried out a demolition drive in Budhera village in which six under-construction shops and five large structures were demolished. DTCP officials said that they have warned the land owners not to carry out violations repeatedly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/dtcp-to-create-a-database-of-affordable-housing-projects-in-city-101614188328830.html
24-02-2021||Gurugram||Man kills woman over insecurities in polyamorous relationship||A man allegedly smothered a married woman he was having an extramarital affair with to death on February 19 after her husband left for work in Sector 50, the police said on Wednesday. The police said that the husband was aware of their relationship and the three of them had decided to live together after the woman had eloped with the man last year. The police said that the suspect killed her as she was allegedly giving more attention to her husband. The suspect was identified as Subhash Kumar, of Hathras in Uttar Pradesh. He was produced before a court on Wednesday and taken on one-day police remand. An autopsy of the woman’s body revealed that she was four months pregnant, the police said. According to the police, the woman, identified as Preeti, also an Uttar Pradesh native, had got married and moved to Gurugram in December 2019. However, in February last year, she eloped with Kumar to Rajasthan and they moved to Faridabad two months ago. The police said that on February 17 this year, the woman had called her husband and pleaded with him to take her back as she was being harassed and assaulted by Kumar. When the husband went to meet them, Kumar allegedly threatened to kill himself, following which the three of them decided to live together. They moved to Gurugram on February 18 and rented a room in Jalvihar Colony of Sector 46 and decided to work at a construction site in a residential area. Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime), said that in the phone conversation with her husband, Preeti had cried and apologised for leaving him. “Preeti and Subhash often fought with each other and he often assaulted her. They both were finding it hard to make ends meet as they had no work and used to earn money by working at construction sites,” he said. On February 19, the husband left their residence, along with a neighbour, around 3am to find work. “The husband returned home around 5pm and found both the rooms locked from the outside. He broke open the door and found Preeti dead on the floor. He looked for Subhash but he had fled the spot with his belongings. He enquired his neighbours, but they were not aware of his whereabouts,” said Sangwan. A case under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at Sector 50 police station the same day. The investigation was handed over to the Sector 40 crime unit, which arrested Subhash Kumar from Ghata crossing on the Gurgaon-Faridabad Road on Tuesday night. “We had prepared his sketch and had activated our informers, following which he was traced. He confessed to the crime and revealed that he was insecure and could not tolerate the woman giving more attention to her husband, due to which he smothered her to death,” said Gunpal, sub-inspector, CIA-40.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/man-kills-woman-over-insecurities-in-polyamorous-relationship-101614188328266.html
24-02-2021||Gurugram||Manager of infra company shot dead by burglar, fourth incident this month||The police on Wednesday arrested a 27-year-old man for allegedly shooting dead a 37-year-old senior manager of a road construction company in Sohna during a failed burglary attempt the previous night. This is the fourth incident this month wherein people have been shot dead in the public.The victim, identified as Rohit Sharma of Jalandhar in Punjab, was working with the infrastructure company for constructing an expressway connecting Gurugram and Mumbai.The police said that Sharma used to live at the company’s site office in Sancholi village of Sohna, where there were regular thefts of construction material, such as steel and iron, reported from the site.Ajay Vikram Singh, administrative officer of the company, said that they were working at the site around 11.45pm on Tuesday, when an unidentified person reached the spot in an i20 car. “He entered the premises when Rohit spotted him and inquire him about his purpose of visit. In the meanwhile, the accused pulled out gun and shot Rohit and fled the spot,” said Singh, adding that they took him to a hospital in Sector 38, where he died during treatment.Preet Pal Sangwan, the assistant commissioner of police (crime), said, “Sharma, along with his colleague, went to the site and confronted the man, following which he took out a pistol and shot at him. Within seconds, he fled the spot.”A case under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at the Sadar city police station.Sangwan said that crime teams, with the help of informers, traced the car used in the crime to Sohna. However, when the teams reached the spot, the suspect was found to have fled the area. “The teams, based on technical surveillance, informers, and several raids, arrested him from Nuh,” he said.The suspect was identified as Bhim Singh Raghav, of Roz Ka Meo in Nuh, who lived in a rented room in Sohna. He allegedly confessed to the murder and said he used to sell stolen materials to a supplier. He used to visit the company’s site office thrice a week, the police said. “He had lost his job during Covid-19 and was unable to make ends meet due to which he took to stealing and started picking up iron and steel from construction sites,” said Sangwan.KK Rao, the commissioner of police, said that the Sohna crime team arrested the suspect within a few hours in the blind murder case. “The team will be rewarded for their good performance and will be given appreciation certificates,” he said.Raghav was produced before a court on Wednesday and taken on two-day police remand. The police said that his involvement is expected in more such cases.On Monday afternoon, a 28-year-old man was shot dead by at least two unidentified assailants in Feroz Gandhi colony of Sector 9. According to the police, the assailants fired 18 bullets, of which 15 hit the man, killing him on the spot. Family members of the victim said that there is no police fear among criminals as they easily flee the spot after murders. Police said they have solved 80% of the murders reported this year and have formed teams to crack the remaining cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/manager-of-infra-company-shot-dead-by-burglar-fourth-incident-this-month-101614188327654.html
24-02-2021||Gurugram||GMCBL to start trial run of special bus service for women||The Gurugram Metropolitan City Bus Limited (GMCBL) has decided to conduct trial runs of the women’s special bus service and assess the response before restarting the service in the city, officials said on Wednesday. According to GMCBL, the department is planning to restart the women’s special bus service once again after colleges reopen completely. “We have not started the women’s special bus service even after the end of the lockdown because we did not get sufficient number of passengers. These buses ran on lesser capacity even before Covid-19 pandemic, and we incurred losses. We have now decided to conduct a trial run of these buses once colleges and office complexes open up a little more so that we can cater to more passengers,” said Jai Parkash, assistant manager for route planning, GMCBL. He said that if the trial runs are successful with enough number of passengers using the bus service, then the city bus authority will restart the service. However, the official could not give a date as to when the trial run would start.The women’s special bus service, which started in November 2019, was halted during the lockdown imposed last year in March due to Covid-19 pandemic. The bus service, which had female conductors and drivers, was started with the aim of providing a safe transportation service to women, connecting busy hubs like Metro stations with newer and older parts of the city. The bus followed a route from Huda City Centre Metro station till Gurugram railway station, as several girls’ schools and women’s colleges are located along the route. While most bus services have restarted since the end of the lockdown, the women’s special service is yet to resume. The city bus services are available on 24 routes with 153 buses. On Monday, a route 902 was introduced to cater to public commuting within Faridabad, which follows the route from NIT Bus Stand to Bata Metro Station and back to NIT Bus Stand (Mudrika) Via Hardware Chowk, Bata Metro Station, Hardware Chowk, Dabua Colony, Hanuman mandir and KL Mehta College. The bus service starts at 7.15am from NIT Bus Stand and the last bus leaves at 7.35pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gmcbl-to-start-trial-run-of-special-bus-service-for-women-101614188327160.html
24-02-2021||Gurugram||Teachers apprehensive of learning gaps among students||As primary school students of classes 3 to 5 returned to classrooms on Wednesday, many teachers found acute problems of learning gaps among students. Teachers said that despite online classes, students with inadequate support systems at home and lack of access to phones and computers have been lagging behind the others.“Many students are now not able to read properly, for they have not attended the school for almost a year now,” said Amarjyoti, a teacher of Class 3 at Sector 4/7 primary school.Jeet, a student of Class 5 at the Sector 4/7 government school, when asked by his class teacher to finish an English exercise of writing his friends’ names along with their qualities, said he could not do so. Jeet, whose father works as a school guard, said, “We don’t have access to phones through which other students study. I am not able to understand what is being taught to me in the classroom.” All exercise sheets in his book were blank.Likewise, Shruti and Lakshmi in Amarjyoti’s classroom, who shifted from private schools, had difficulty in doing mathematics and English exercises, despite attending online classes.Shazra and Uzma, Class 4 students at the primary school in Police Lines also struggled to keep up with the lessons being taught. “They don’t remember mathematics tables and have been facing difficulties in doing multiplication and division,” said Sandeep, their class teacher.For classes 3 to 5, there are only four subjects — English, Hindi, Mathematics and EVS (comprising lessons on history, geography and science) — which are to be covered in three hours, from 10am to 1.30pm, as per the Covid-19 prevention guidelines. However, Sandeep said that since many students were not actively involved in online studies, additional work has to be put in for in-person instruction.Both Sandeep and Amarjyoti said that for two to three days, the focus will be on brushing up the basics. “It is for this reason I asked every student to read a few lines from the chapter to gauge their current situation. Many students have been facing difficulties in reading words, which was not the case earlier when the schools were shut last year,” said Amarjyoti.Teachers said that revisions will help them in identifying students who require more attention and they will be grouped. “Students who need attention will be given exercises to improve their basics, while others will carry on with the routine curriculum,” said Sandeep.On the other hand, a few teachers continued with the curriculum, instead of revision, for a month. Rajeev Gandhi, a teacher of Class 5 at the Sector 4/7 government school, said, “We are going ahead with the syllabus set for January and February on the first day, instead of revision, as students have been taking up online classes for all these months now. Exams are expected to be held in a month or two, so lessons have to be completed.”According to teachers, the extent of learning loss can be estimated once classes operate with at least 80% strength.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/teachers-apprehensive-of-learning-gaps-among-students-101614188267726.html
24-02-2021||Gurugram||Students of grades 3-5 return to classrooms, lack of distancing a concern||Over 40% of the students in classes 3 to 5 in government schools returned to their classrooms on Wednesday after almost 11 months of online education. However, as the turnout of students was higher than expected, many schools failed to follow social distancing protocols on the first day. In some instances, students who did not have consent letters from parents were also allowed to attend classes.“The first day of school reopening saw a collective turnout of almost 40% in 353 primary schools of the district, which will gradually increase in the coming week. Online classes will continue for students who cannot attend schools,” said Prem Lata, district elementary education officer.During HT’s visit, classrooms in a few schools were packed to capacity and students were found seated with no discernible gaps between one another. Although they wore masks, social distancing norms were not adhered to.At an elementary school in Sector 4/7, a few classes were packed to the capacity. Mahesh Chandra, a teacher of Class 5, while counting the students, said, “The classroom has a seating capacity of almost 40 students, which is almost occupied on the first day. Once other students arrive, additional arrangements will have to be made to accommodate over 15 more students.”A similar situation was witnessed at the schools in Police Lines and Sadar. “All classrooms will be occupied as primary schools will reopen for classes 1 and 2 in March. The turnout in every class will continue to increase. Therefore, classes will have to be run in the usual manner. But we are ensuring that students wear masks throughout,” Sunil Kumar, principal, Sadar primary school.“On the first day, at least 33 of the 54 enrolled students attended the classes. Classes will run in almost full strength by next week. Some students are still in their villages and are yet to return,” said Amit Kumar, head of the primary wing, government school at Police Lines.Kumar decorated the entrance of classrooms with balloons to welcome the students. “Some children are meeting face-to-face for the first time. They had shifted from private schools in October last year,” he said.At a government school in Kadipur, only 20% of the 860 students of the primary classes turned up on the day of reopening. “Many parents wait for a response on the first day. Only after hearing first-hand accounts from neighbours or relatives do they begin to send their child to school. When schools reopened for classes 9 to 12 in December, only a few students attended classes. But now, classrooms are packed to capacity in many schools,” said Sudesh Raghav, principal, government school, Kadipur.Students of primary schools were let out earlier than 1.30pm to avoid a rush at the exit gate. At the government school in Sector 4/7, students were asked to leave in a queue before senior students were let out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/students-of-grades-3-5-return-to-classrooms-lack-of-distancing-a-concern-101614188267161.html
24-02-2021||Bangalore||Bengaluru airport installs disabled aircraft recovery kit||Bengaluru's Kempegowda International Airport (KIA) on Tuesday announced the installation of disabled aircraft recovery kit, which will help the airport operator remove a disabled aircraft at the runway, and thereby restoring the operations at the earliest.The transportable kit is capable of recovering Code F-compatible aircrafts during an aircraft incident on the runway, ensuring that runway closure is minimised, Bangalore International Airport Ltd (BIAL), the private airport operator managing and running the KIA, said in a release.The kit, with multiple components, and customised for the Bengaluru airport's requirement, includes ground preparation tools, aircraft lifting, de-bogging, tethering, towing, and all other associated aspects of both narrow- and wide-body aircraft, BIAL said in the release.Last year, the private airport operator had signed a pact with German aircraft recovery kit maker Kunz GmbH to manufacture, supply, commission and maintain this specialised equipment.As part of this agreement, Kunz GmbH will work with BIAL to establish a centre for disabled aircraft recovery training, making the Bengaluru airport the first in the region to have such a facility, as per the release.Disabled aircraft on the runway have the potential to cripple airport operations, resulting in flight delays, diversions and loss of revenue for both airlines as well as airport operators.The effective recovery of all types of disabled aircraft in the movement area addresses key risks and ensures that operations, business continuity and organisational resilience remain unaffected, BIAL said.The Bengaluru airport is the first aerodrome in the country as well as in South Asia to own the state-of-the-art kit.Till now, only national carrier Air India had this facility in the country."The acquisition of this aircraft recovery equipment is an important milestone for us at the Bengaluru airport."Being prepared is the key to running a high-performance airport. This is not only important for the airport, but also for the entire aviation ecosystem as a whole," said Hari Marar, mananging director and chief executive officer, BIAL.Under the scope of the agreement with Kunz GmBh, BIAL has constituted a task force that will undergo extensive hands-on training  both at BLR Airport as well as at the German manufacturer's state-of-the-art recovery training facility in Germany, said the release.Additionally, a quick response recovery team (QRRT) will be formed and imparted with technical knowledge, enabling them to respond to critical situations, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/bengaluru-airport-installs-disabled-aircraft-recovery-kit-101614186851442.html
24-02-2021||Other||PMC fails to lay fibre optical ducts as part of 24x7 water project||PUNE Even as the former state chief minister Devendra Fadnavis instructed the civic body to lay fibre optical ducts as part of the 24x7 water project, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has not take any decision about the same.Fadnavis visited the city on February 11 and instructed PMC officials to carry out the work together.Though it was decided that the optical fibre duct would be laid along with the water project, PMC is not enforcing it at ground level. Almost 25 per cent work of the 2 24x7 water project is complete, but the ducts for optical fibre are not being laid despite being part of the tender.Hemant Rasne, chairman, standing committee, said, “Instead of digging roads repeatedly, ducts should be laid at the same time.”“As I am busy in the budget meetings, I am not able to take its review. But we would ensure that ducts are laid along with the project. After presenting the budget, we will hold a meeting,” he said.Rasne claimed that the administration is saying that there are technical problems while undertaking the work.One of the officials on anonymity, said, “Though the water pipeline would be laid up to 1,800 km, many roads are narrow. If the roads are dug up for optical fibre, PMC would need to do fresh work of roads as almost half the road would get dug for the same purpose.”Mayor Murlidhar Mohol said, “It is wrong that the administration decided at their level not to carry out the optical fibre ductwork. They never informed us about the issue. As instructed by Fadnavis, we will carry out the work.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmc-fails-to-lay-fibre-optical-ducts-as-part-of-24x7-water-project-101614186167124.html
24-02-2021||Pune||Rasne to present PMC budget on March 1st||Standing committee chairman Hemant Rasne will present the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC)’s annual budget for the year 2021-22 on March 1. Considering the Covid-19 pandemic, this is the first time corporation budget that will be announced online, in view of the fact the state government is not allowing to the general body meeting to be held in the presence of elected members. Municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar has presented the draft budget of Rs7,650 crore to the standing committee. After the budget, the standing committee conducted several meetings with each department and prepared the final budget. Considering this is an election year, it is expected that the ruling party will try to announce various schemes in the budget, as well allocate a maximum part of the budget to works which are almost complete. The ruling party, the BJP, will then be able to inaugurate various projects before the announcement of municipal elections, which are either slated for December 2021 or January 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/rasne-to-present-pmc-budget-on-march-1st-101614184247672.html
24-02-2021||Pune||61 acres in Lohegaon to be developed as water sports complex||Minister of state for sports and tourism, Aditi Tatkare, has given an in-principal approval for the development of 61 acres in Lohegaon to be developed as a water sports complex. Sunil Tingre, MLA from Vadgaonsheri on Wednesday met the minister regarding the project. The 61 acres, known as Harantale, is located at survey number 35 ine Lohegaon. Tingre said, “District sports officials, Haveli tehsildar and revenue officers were all present for the meeting. On survey number 35, there is an old water tank. Water is spread on almost 12 acres. We can convert it into a water sports complex. The district collector owns 31 acres. This whole area can be turned as one of the city’s biggest attractions.” Tingre added, “The minister has instructed officials to fence the land so that it does not get encroached upon. She even instructed the district administration to appoint a state-approved architect and consultant to prepare a detailed project report.” Tingre said, “This part is falling in the municipal limits, but the land is owned by district collector. If this land gets developed, it would help save it from encroachment as well as have one of the best tourist and sports sites in the city.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/61-acres-in-lohegaon-to-be-developed-as-water-sports-complex-101614184246911.html
24-02-2021||Pune||Man booked for MCOCA submits fake chemotherapy letter to escape jail time||A man was booked for submitting false documents regarding chemotherapy in order to evade jail time under the Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA) and an attempted murder case. The man was identified as Nilesh Baswant (35) who was booked for attempted murder in 2015 and arrested in 2016. The case against the man was registered under Sections 307 (attempted murder), 387, 447, 504, 506(2) and 34 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) along with Section 7 of Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA) at Kondhwa police station. Assistant police commissioner Ramesh Galande of Pune police is now investigating the MCOCA case. “He had been in jail since 2016 and had finally got a temporary bail of four weeks by the Supreme Court in April 2020. He got two four-month extensions. He had then newly applied for normal bail. That application was rejected by the local court and is now pending in the High Court. But while investigating his papers, a forgery was found,” said Senior police inspector Vinayak Gaikwad of the Pune police crime branch who found the forgery and lodged a complaint. “The applicant needs to be treated by 04 chemotherapy three weekly for six cycles depending upon the court review of IHC and PET-CT scan,” read the forged hospital note. He had allegedly forged the letter on a letterhead of a hospital called OncoLife Cancer Centre, located in Shendre, Satara. The forged documents were allegedly created and submitted between June 24, 2020, and July 9, 2020, in the court of special MCOCA judge as his temporary bail extension was about to end, according to the police. A case under Sections 465 (forgery), 468 (forgery for cheating), 471 (using forged as genuine), 198 (using a false certificate as true), 420 (cheating) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Shivajinagar police station against the man.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/man-booked-for-mcoca-submits-fake-chemotherapy-letter-to-escape-jail-time-101614184188483.html
24-02-2021||Pune||Four-month-old infant lands with three illegal guardians before cops intervene||A 28-year-old woman was arrested for kidnapping a four-month-old infant from a man’s house in Chakan on February 17. The police found during the search of the child was that the man from whom she kidnapped the infant was not the biological father of the child, according to Krishna Prakash, the commissioner of Pimpri-Chinchwad police. “We found that he had wrongly entered his name as the parent at a hospital in Chakan where a young, unmarried couple had given birth to the child and had agreed to give her up. His wife is in a mental asylum and he had also decided to give up the girl after having fallen into financial trouble,” said Prakash. The woman was identified as Rani Shivaji Yadav (28), a native of Ambejogai in Beed, according to the police.Yadav had taken the child and left for Ambejogai in Beed where she had told her husband and in-laws that she had given birth to the child. She did that to hide the fact that she had miscarried her own child about two months ago, according to the police. The man from whose house the child was kidnapped was identified as Rajendra Prabhakar Nagpure (53), a resident of a room in Vafgaonkar chawl in Chakan, Khed area of Pune. Nagpure works as an installer and maintenance of card swipe machines and his 66-year-old sister was looking after the child, according to senior police inspector Ashok Rajput of Chakan police station. “Her husband had moved back to Beed a few days before the lockdown was announced (in March) and as she did not accompany him, she was stuck here. However, her husband got a pass made and facilitated bus travel to Beed a month later. She fell pregnant then and after reaching seven months of pregnancy, she said she is going to Osmanabad to her parent’s place. We are not yet sure when, but during that time, she miscarried her child and came to Pune and lived with one of her relatives instead,” said senior police inspector Rajput. The woman had learned about a child at Nagpure’s house and had approached him to seek a job as a caretaker, according to the police. “She latched on to him while he had started shifting houses from one chawl to another. The shifting was done on February 16 and when the women in the new chawl asked who Yadav was, Nagpure told them that she was his wife’s sister. The very next day, around 3pm, she picked up the child and left,” said PI Rajput. A case under Sections 363 (kidnapping) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) was registered at Chakan police station after her disappearance. BOX: Police to reunite child with biological parents Unbeknownst to the child, she has changed hands from three sets of guardians and is now in the custody of the police and will be handed over to the Child welfare committee (CWC). Until the future of the child is decided upon, she will be in the children’s home run by an NGO in association with the CWC and is located behind Dighi police station. “We have tracked down the biological parents of the child and we will try to get them together. Since they are not married, they will need to be married in order to be in a position to take of the child and be accepted in the society,” said Prakash. The biological parents are students at a local college and had kept their families in the dark about their child.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/fourmonthold-infant-lands-with-three-illegal-guardians-before-cops-intervene-101614184187875.html
24-02-2021||Pune||Unidentified body found near Dnyaneshwar temple, Alandi||An unidentified body of a man was found in an area behind the Sant Dnyaneshwar temple in Alandi inside the jurisdiction of Pimpri-Chinchwad police on Monday morning. The body was found by the pandit of the temple around 11:30am on a pile of stones meant for a nearby construction site. A complaint in the matter was lodged by Dheeraj Sanjay Kuber (30), a resident of Wadgaon road in Alandi, Khed. Kuber is the pandit of the temple and performs all religious activities. The body is suspected to belong to a 30–35-year-old man, according to the police. Senior police inspector Dnyaneshwar Sable of Alandi police station is investigating the case. A case under Section 302 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) was registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/unidentified-body-found-near-dnyaneshwar-temple-alandi-101614184187064.html
24-02-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka govt to use new tech to survey mineral reserves: Minister||Karnataka Mines and Geology Minister Murugesh R Nirani on Wednesday said the government was considering adopting new technology to survey mineral reserves in the state. The previous governments used old technology to survey the mineral reserves. We will use the latest technology and this will help get accurate information, Nirani was quoted as saying in an official press release. He said Karnataka has rich natural resources compared to other states and the Mines and Geology Department has initiated steps to conduct the survey in a scientific manner. The Minister made the statement after holding a meeting with the officials of the department in Mangaluru. Reacting to a blast on Tuesday at a quarry in Chikkaballapura in which six people were killed, the Minister said the accused would be punished as per law and tough measures would be taken on supply of gelatin. The government is planning to enact a new law allowing only licence-holders to use explosive items. A decision will be taken after discussion with Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa," he said. Warning those supplying and storing gelatin sticks illegally of stern action, Nirani said officials have been instructed to find illegal hoarding of explosive items in stone quarries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-govt-to-use-new-tech-to-survey-mineral-reserves-minister-101614174917830.html
24-02-2021||Chandigarh||2 more workers injured in Karnal cracker factory blast succumb||Two more workers injured in the Karnal firecracker factory blast succumbed to their injuries on Wednesday, taking the death toll to three.The victims, Vijay Kumar, 25, and Kumar Swamy, 28, both residents of Tamil Nadu, were admitted to a private hospital with 100% burns soon after the incident on Tuesday night. Another worker, Bala Kumar, 24, had died on the spot. The condition of their injured colleague Pandi Selvam, who also sustained 100% burns, is critical.Karnal superintendent of police Ganga Ram Punia said the bodies had been sent for the postmortem and their family members had been informed. The reason for the blast in the factory, which stands on Ghoghripur Road, is yet to be ascertained. The explosion was so forceful that a major portion of the building collapsed. Karnal deputy commissioner Nishant Yadav said a committee has been formed to probe the incident and action will be taken as per the findings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/2-more-workers-injured-in-karnal-cracker-factory-blast-succumb-101614177527299.html
24-02-2021||Other||India’s cycle4change challenge: PCMC makes 25-city shortlist; final 11 to win Rs1 crore each||PUNE The Pimpri-Chinchwad twin cities are mong 25 cities chosen for the India cycle4change challenge.India cycle4change challenge is an endeavour by the ministry of housing and urban affairs, under the Smart Cities Mission, which aims to create cycling infrastructure and awareness regarding use of the cycle as transport.The 25 cities will be shortlisted to 11, all of which will receive Rs1 crore each, and guidance from national and international experts, for scaling the existing cycling infrastructure.“We had a discussion with cycling groups on how we can improve the cycling tracks in the city and on that basis, we submitted our report,” said Vijay Bhojane, joint city engineer, PCMC.The 25 cities were chosen from 107 entries. Theother three cities from Maharashtra are Nagpur, Nashik and Aurangabad.“We have decided a few routes and are planning what facilities will be added. We are expecting to get selected for the final round,” added Bhojane.Pune city did not send its entry for the challenge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/indias-cycle4change-challenge-pcmc-makes-25-city-shortlist-final-11-to-win-rs1-crore-each-101614177346543.html
24-02-2021||Mumbai||1,167 new Covid cases in Mumbai, 8,807 in Maharashtra after 2 days of fall||Mumbai recorded a huge spike in the number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in the last 24 hours. According to Maharashtra health department, the city recorded 1,167 new cases of the infection while the number stood at 8,807 for the state.This comes after two days of fall in numbers in both Mumbai and Maharashtra. On Tuesday, 643 fresh Covid cases were recorded in Mumbai and 6,218 in the state.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageAs many as 2,772 people were discharged, taking the total number of recoveries in state to 2,008,623, and 51 people died of the disease in 24 hours, taking the death toll to 51,857, the health department said.The Covid-19 situation in Maharashtra has been an area of concern for the Centre and various other states which have imposed travel restrictions on people coming from there.The sudden spike in daily cases in Maharashtra began in February. Amravati, one of districts that are contributing the highest to the increase, reported 9,069 Covid-19 cases only in February. Out of this 4,728 were detected since February 17.Also Read | Maharashtra Covid-19: Record spike in Amravati, districts impose travel banMeanwhile, officials said on Tuesday that mutations of the Sars-Cov-2 were found in samples tested in the state. However, they said that it is yet to be established if these are behind the resurgence in the state which has witnessed 15,860,912 tests for the disease so far.“There is no direct relation between the recent surge in Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra and some other states where the mutations N440K and E484K [have occurred],” said Dr Balram Bhargava, director general, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), at the weekly media briefing on Covid-19 updates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/1167-new-covid-cases-in-mumbai-8-807-in-maharashtra-after-2-days-of-fall-101614176175229.html
24-02-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM Amarinder Singh announces mini bus permit policy||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Wednesday announced a mini bus permit policy and also virtually distributed 3,000 permits to the rural youth as part of his government's 'Ghar Ghar Rozgar te Karobar' mission.Singh said another 8,000 permits would be distributed the rest of the year, taking the total to 11,000. This will generate both direct and indirect employment and there is no deadline for rural youths to apply for the permits.The chief minister directed the Transport Department to create a user-friendly online facility within the next three months for receipt and processing of applications of all bus permits to make the system more transparent and eliminate corruption, according to a government statement.These novel initiatives will go a long way in providing smooth rural connectivity and seamless delivery of citizen-centric services, said the chief minister.He lambasted the previous SAD-BJP regime for issuing “illegal” permits to “chosen people” without due publicity or adherence to legal procedures or rules.Recalling that his government had promised cancellation of all illegal bus permits to ensure that genuine people get the benefit of the scheme, Singh said under the transparent system adopted by the Transport Department, a public notice for mini bus permits was issued for the first time ever in newspapers.People were encouraged to apply online without any hassle, and as many as 12,384 applications were received.Congratulating Transport Minister Razia Sultana and the officers of the department, Singh said that they had set the ball rolling to achieve the five-fold objective of creating employment opportunity for rural youths, making travel safer for women and children, ensuring safer vehicular traffic for travellers and pedestrians, reducing vehicular pollution and doorstep delivery of government services.He said the Vehicle Location Tracking (GPS) Device Project, launched at a cost of ₹15.50 crore would make travel safer for women and children in public transport vehicles.He disclosed that such devices had already been installed in 100 per cent of state-owned PUNBUS buses and 50 per cent in PRTC buses, which would be fully covered in the next six months. Razia said the GPS system would be installed soon in private buses too.The chief minister also referred to the state-of-the-art command control centre at state level and four regional centres to track the vehicles, and said this would facilitate handling of panic button alerts by any woman/child, online challan for over-speeding vehicle, absence of valid insurance and pollution certificate etc.         On the occasion, the chief minister also laid the foundation stone of the Institute of Driving and Traffic Research (IDTR) Kapurthala at a cost of ₹22.50 crore under Mission 'Ghar Ghar Rozgaar te Karobar', with training capacity of 20,000 drivers annually to impart quality training to rural youth, and thus generate employment avenues.        The upcoming training institute, to be managed by Tata Motors, would be equipped with camera based Innovative Driving Testing System (IDTS) to assess the driving skills of the candidates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cm-amarinder-singh-announces-mini-bus-permit-policy-101614174908758.html
24-02-2021||Other||RTE admission process to begin in “matter of days”, says the man in charge||PUNE After a delay of almost three weeks, the admission process for the Right to Education (RTE) process yes to begin, as of Wednesday. The schedule for admission also not been made public as of now. School registration had been postponed till February 17 and as per officials from the Pune Zilla Parishad’s (ZP) education department, there are two-three more schools that still have to register from the district.Education officials have urged parents to keep the documents for registration ready, as the procedure is expected to begin this week.Dinkar Temkar, director, school education department and in-charge of RTE for Maharashtra, said that the online portal for RTE admission will be opening soon. “Registration of schools has been completed now. In a matter of days the online portal will reopen for admissions by parents. Parents should keep all documents handy and ready,” said Temkar.Moreover, as per the RTE portal, there are 14,721 seats in Pune district, this time for RTE admission. Sunil Kurhade, the education officer at the ZP, said that there are a few schools that still have to register.“Once these register, vacant seats will increase up to 16,000 in Pune district,” said Kurhade.Pune district has the maximum vacancy under RTE in the state.There has been a series of delays with the admission process due to a delay with the registration of schools. Mukund Kirdat, city-based education activist and member of the Aam Admi Party (AAP), said that this delay in admission will affect students.“These children are from economically and financially weaker sections and delay in admission is not good for them. Already they struggle with issues like buying a smartphone for online education. This delay in admission makes them late for the initial classes,” said Kirdat.“Many schools delay registration due to non-payment of dues, but the child suffers. Moreover, many schools have opted to register for Class One entry, and not for entry at the nursery level. If a child from the weaker sections gets admitted into Class One, they will face more challenges as they are way behind in their studies as compared to other students,” added Kirdat.RTE status in Pune as of Feb 24*CityNo of RTE schools No of RTE seats vacantAhmednagar4023,013Kolhapur3453,181Latur2381,740Mumbai2905,227Navi Mumbai 621,236Pune98414,721Solapur326 2,217Total (Maharashtra) 9,430 9,6791*Source: RTE portal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rte-admission-process-to-begin-in-matter-of-days-says-the-man-in-charge-101614175726448.html
24-02-2021||Delhi||MCD bypolls: Kejriwal says BJP-ruled civic bodies in mess, AAP only alternative||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday said the BJP-ruled municipal corporations in the city are in a mess and the AAP is the only alternative days ahead of the upcoming municipal corporation by-elections in the city.Addressing a roadshow in Shalimar Bagh (under North Delhi Municipal Corporation) which is among the five wards where bypolls will be held on February 28, Kejriwal said the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government in Delhi has provided 24-hour electricity with zero bills, and good schools and hospitals."The MCDs are in a mess under the BJP," he claimed and asked people to vote for the AAP candidate contesting from the Shalimar Bagh ward which fell vacant after the death of the sitting BJP councilor.The bypolls for the five wards of the city's three municipal corporations are to be held on February 28 and results will be declared on March 3.Besides AAP, candidates of the BJP and Congress are contesting the polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/mcd-bypolls-kejriwal-says-bjp-ruled-civic-bodies-in-mess-aap-only-alternative-101614173065030.html
24-02-2021||Jaipur||BJP deems Rajasthan budget disappointing, ruling Congress says its presented a holistic one||The BJP termed the state budget as disappointing claiming that it did not live up to the expectations of the people of Rajasthan whereas ruling Congress leaders said every section has been appropriately focused in the budget presented by Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Wednesday.BJP state president Satish Poonia said the budget is not more than a cut and paste job as new schemes have been announced just like past budgets, which hardly get realised on the ground."There is a huge contrast in announcements and their realisation. The budget is just like a cut, copy and paste job. It is a cosmetic budget, which has a good face but intentions are not good," Poonia said.He said that the budget did not mention anything about regularisation of contractual workers and protesting unemployed youth. Overall, the budget has failed to live up to the expectations of people, he added.Leader of Opposition Gulab Chand Kataria said old announcements made in previous budgets for his own constituency have not even started and new ones have been announced."It has become their hobby to make announcements. They are only misleading people as they do not have a proper budget. This budget is nothing more than a bundle of lies," Kataria said in a press conference.On the other hand, Congress leaders have termed it a holistic budget, which has taken care of all sections of the society.Medical and Health Minister Raghu Sharma praised the budget, saying that it is an unprecedented one for overall development. He said the budget dedicated to health will fulfill the dream of a healthy Rajasthan.Sharma said several innovations in medicine and health have been announced in the budget. We will present a unique example in the country by bringing a bill in the Assembly to provide Right to Health to All.He described the Universal Health Care scheme as unprecedented from the point of view of health rejuvenation at a cost of ₹3,500 crore from the upcoming financial year. Under this scheme, each family of the state will get the benefit of medical insurance scheme of ₹5 lakh.Congress state president Govind Singh Dotasra said that a commendable budget has been presented by CM Gehlot, which is all-inclusive and development oriented.To take forward the state on the path of progress, announcements have been made in the budget keeping the public interest paramount, he said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/bjp-deems-rajasthan-budget-disappointing-ruling-congress-says-its-presented-a-holistic-one-101614172326775.html
24-02-2021||Bangalore||India’s first hearing impaired female biker: I may not hear it, but I feel the wind||“I was born deaf; I only have 40% hearing capacity. When I was in school, kids used to make fun of me because my voice sounded like I was stammering. It was hard, but I never let it get to me. Speech therapy over the last four years has made me more confident,” says Archana Timmaraju, a Bengaluru resident, who is India’s first hearing impaired female biker, and has been riding since 2006. The 36-year-old arts and metal sculpture teacher at Mallya Aditi International School, Bengaluru, is now all set to take on a 650 day motorcycle tour around the world, and cover 94 countries across seven continents, to spread awareness about sign language, and the needs of hearing impaired in India. Timmaraju says, “There are no colleges for the hearing impaired in India. Children are stuck after completing their schooling, and there are hardly any interpreters in colleges. We need more efforts and other methods of communication, like sign language, to be taught at a larger scale to really integrate the community (in mainstream).” Her journey of grit and determination has made many see her with awe and respect her with admiration. “People are amazed when I tell them I’m a rider. I got my first experience of riding when a friend gave me his Yamaha RX 100 bike to train, in 2006. I eventually started riding with other bikers in Bengaluru, and that gave me immense confidence,” she says, sharing how as a hearing impaired woman riding across India she has had her share of naysayers tell her how risky this hobby is. Talking about the challenges she had to face as a hearing impaired female rider in India, she says, “Here it’s more about the problems one faces while applying for the license. I faced difficulties in getting my license since there is a lack of understanding of rules. But eventually, it worked out for me. During my rides, I put a sticker at the back of my bike that reads: ‘Rider is deaf. Failure to cooperate with verbal commands means I am not hearing you.’ Some people make an effort to understand my needs, but I make sure I ride safely, and often keep behind lorries when the terrain is hard.” Timmaraju remains fearlessness, and it’s this attitude that prompted her to ride from Bengaluru to Leh in 2018, along with her colleague Daniel Sundaram. Once back to the city, she start her venture Silent Expedition, to help the hearing impaired in their travels. “I wanted to face my fears, and also make people aware about the problems faced by people in my community. Wherever I go, I meet other hearing impaired riders and try to inspire them to be brave in the face of obstacles. I want more people from the community, especially women, to go on these journeys. If I can do it, everyone can do it,” she concludes.Author tweets @bhagat_mallikaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/indias-first-hearing-impaired-female-biker-i-may-not-hear-it-but-i-feel-the-wind-101614169608843.html
24-02-2021||Mumbai||Marina, water taxis and more: Mumbai Port Trust signs MoUs worth ₹7,510 crore||Ahead of the 'Maritime India Summit' 2021, the Mumbai Port Trust (MbPT) has signed 13 different Memorandums of Understanding (MoUs)/agreements worth ₹7,510 crore in a bid to boost water transport and tourism in the city. In a press conference on Wednesday, MbPT chairman Rajiv Jalota said that MoUs worth ₹12,000 crore more are also in the pipeline.The agreements include starting water taxis from the domestic cruise terminal (DCT) in South Mumbai for ₹75 crore, introducing harbour cruise tourism for ₹15 crore, developing a marina for ₹370 crore, and shipbuilding and allied activities for ₹1300 crore among other agreements. In talks for decades now, MbPT is looking at starting water taxi services from South Mumbai to Belapur and Nerul soon.“We are looking at starting the services soon. Initially, we will start with 10-50 seater vessels, following which it can be increased as per the response,” said Jalota. The plan also includes services to Rewas and Kashid. A senior official from MbPT said that the charges would range between ₹300- ₹400. “The idea is that it should be in a similar range as normal taxis, otherwise people would not prefer water transport,” the official said.MbPT is also planning Mumbai's first marina for 300 yachts on 8.02 hectares land near the DCT. Jalota also said that MbPT will complete the Mumbai international cruise terminal project by the end of this year. MbPT aims to transform Mumbai into a cruise tourism hotspot catering to 15 lakh cruise passengers by the end of 2030.Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate the virtual 'Maritime India Summit' to be held between March 2-4. Jalota said that the summit would prove to be a powerful platform to explore business opportunities in the maritime sector. Around 20,000 delegates from 40 countries are expected to take part in the summit, which will look at different themes like shipbuilding, repairs and recycling, inland water transport, coastal shipping, tourism among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/marina-water-taxis-and-more-mumbai-port-trust-signs-mous-worth-rs-7-510-crore-101614165688072.html
24-02-2021||Bangalore||Bengaluru bikers on a mission: Cleaning up is a joyride!||You would’ve spotted bikers vroom on their mean machines. But here’s a group of bikers who are on a mission to clean the city! Wrappers, bottles and any trash that’s spoiling the beauty of Bengaluru, gets collected in the waste bags carried by these bikers. “On one of our regular trips, my friend and I realised that most places with visitors are littered. So we picked up a few bottles, but two pairs of hands weren’t enough. The need to clean up our city made us involve more people, and in the process was born Bikers Troop Bengaluru (BTB),” says Harshith BK, founder of the biking group. With the aim to make a difference, BTB was formed in October 2020, with 13 members and has now over 100 members with 30 regular riders who go on trips every weekend. They pick a tourist destination where they halt and clean the place. “Our maiden trip was to Skandagiri, last November, where a dozen of us cleaned up the place. More people showed interest to join the initiative, so a Facebook page was made and since then we’ve had many requests,” says Harshith, adding that the group carries their own water bottles to cut down on plastic waste.The initiative has found many takers in the city, as they feel that the initiative not only allows them to travel regularly but also preserve Nature at the same time. Archana Timmaraju, India’s first hearing impaired female biker, is also part of this group. She says, “I read about BTB’s clean-up ride, and got intrigued by their dedication. I believe we all need to be environmentally conscious; so I asked to be added to the group and recently went on an expedition with them. It feels incredible to be able to send out such a positive message to others!” A long list of people have joined these social warriors, on their weekly clean-up drives. The latest drive was conducted at the area around Thottikallu Falls. Kanika P, a travel enthusiast and member of the group, says, “I’ve been travelling regularly, even during Covid-19, and did my first ride with BTB to DD Hills near Bengaluru last November. And since then I’ve joined them on all their rides. I love the vibe and humbleness of the people associated with this group, which feels like a family that is growing by the day. We now have a separate WhatsApp group called Green Troops Bengaluru, wherein we have like-minded people, who are keen to clean the city along with us.”Author tweets @bhagat_mallikaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/bengaluru-bikers-on-a-mission-cleaning-up-is-a-joyride-101614167868171.html
24-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai cops to probe Dadra & Nagar Haveli administrator’s role in Delkar’s death||Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh on Wednesday said the Mumbai Police will probe Dadra and Nagar Haveli administrator Praful Patel and the local administration’s alleged role in local Parliament member Mohan Delkar’s death. He said the team investigating the case will visit the Union territory as the Congress claimed Delkar, 58, was under pressure from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leadership to join the party.Deshmukh said Delkar has named Patel in his suicide note. “...[Delkar] has also said that he was choosing Mumbai and Maharashtra to commit suicide expecting justice after death. We have received many memorandums raising doubts over the case. Police are investigating if there was pressure from the Centre on Patel and in turn from Patel on local administration to harass Delkar.”Also Read | Post-mortem report confirms MP Mohan Delkar died by suicide: Mumbai PolicePatel was not immediately available for comments, but the BJP rubbished them as baseless. “The Congress is linking the BJP for no reason. Let the investigation take place and truth come to the fore. Why are they jumping to conclusions? As per a verdict by the Supreme Court, the suicide note is also to be subjected to legal scrutiny. The Congress has developed a habit of linking the BJP in everything...,” said BJP leader Madhu Chavan.Delkar, an Independent member of Parliament from Dadar and Nagar Haveli, was found dead in a south Mumbai hotel on Monday. An initial police probe indicated that he died by suicide.Congress leader Sachin Sawant, who held a virtual meeting with Deshmukh on Wednesday, said Delkar had spoken about the harassment in the Parliament during the last session. Sawant said Patel is a former BJP minister and close to Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, the party’s ideological fountainhead. “[Delkar] was being pressurised to join the BJP and Patel has played a key role in it. The local administration is likely to have been under pressure for similar harassment tactics. If an MP [member of Parliament] is meted with such type of treatment, what would be the fate of the general public.”The Congress has claimed Delkar’s video message and suicide note establish he was being harassed to force him to join the BJP. It has demanded a probe into the political link to the suicide case. “The MP has named administrator Praful Patel in the 16-page suicide note holding him responsible for the harassment he had been facing. The note also has a reference to the harassment being meted out to him on the ‘orders from the top’. The MP had also alleged fake cases were registered against him. He chose Mumbai to commit suicide probably with the trust that he will get justice after death,” the Congress said in a memorandum to Deshmukh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-cops-to-probe-dadra-nagar-haveli-administrator-s-role-in-delkar-s-death-101614166186620.html
24-02-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Judge recuses himself in Robert Vadra case||A Rajasthan high court judge on Wednesday recused himself from hearing an Enforcement Directorate (ED) plea seeking custodial interrogation of Robert Vadra, the son-in-law of Congress chief Sonia Gandhi. Put it before another bench, Manoj Kumar Garg said when the plea came up for hearing before him.Vadra is facing an ED probe over the alleged purchase of 275 bigha land in Bikaner by Sky Light Hospitality, a company allegedly linked to him. The ED registered a money laundering case related to the deal in 2016 against Vadra. The court separately extended the interim protection from arrest to Vadra till the next hearing in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-judge-recuses-himself-in-robert-vadra-case-101614163246427.html
24-02-2021||Patna||NMC asks govt medical colleges to exclude non-medical faculties as assessors||The National Medical Commission (NMC) has asked government medical colleges, including Patna’s All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), to exclude non-medical faculties while proposing doctors as assessors for evaluation of medical institutions.The NMC, in its letter to principals and deans of government medical colleges earlier this month, had requested them to submit details of all associate professors, with six years of teaching experience, additional professors and professors, excluding non-medical faculty members.“…as an esteemed ambassador of the profession and a conscious keeper of excellence in medical education, you nominate faculty in your institution at the earliest,” said Dr Achal Gulati, president Medical Assessment and Rating Board of the NMC, in his letter of February 2, a copy of which is with the Hindustan Times.A few non-medical faculties had previously got enrolled as assessors, prompting the NMC to be specific about excluding non-medical faculties.Some non-medical faculties from Patna AIIMS had even made it to the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) as member of the selection committee for recruitment of doctors. The UPSC recruits doctors for railways, Central Government Health Scheme (CGHS), among other institutions of repute.The governing body of Patna AIIMS, which came into existence in 2011-12, on February 18 ratified a proposal to terminate the services of three non-medical faculty members, while letting off yet another in the department of microbiology. All these faculty members were allegedly unqualified on the date of their appointment in 2012-13. Two of the three faculties vetted for termination, still do not possess the basic qualification required for the position they occupy.“We have sent to the NMC, names of our faculty members for assessors,” said Dr Umesh Bhadani, dean, AIIMS, Patna. He, however, did not elaborate if those from the non-medical side find a mention in the institute’s list to the NMC.Also Read: Bihar plans spatial mutation along with textual mutation of land to curb fraudEfforts to reach Dr PK Singh, director, AIIMS-Patna, proved futile as he did not respond to phone call or text message.The NMC, constituted by an act of Parliament known as the National Medical Commission Act, 2019, came into force on September 25, last year, dissolving the board of governors in supersession of the Medical Council of India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/nmc-asks-govt-medical-colleges-to-exclude-non-medical-faculties-as-assessors-101614158735500.html
24-02-2021||Patna||Bihar plans mutation reform to curb fraud||The Bihar government is planning to introduce spatial mutation along with textual mutation to bring transparency in sale and purchase of land, reducing incidents of fraud and title disputes in line with the practice in Gujarat, Odisha and Telangana, said an official.At present only textual mutation is done in sale and purchase of land, a process, which records the name of the new owner in place of the old. “In common parlance, mutation term is used for textual mutation. After the registry of the land and mutation, the seller’s name is struck out and the name of the new owner, the buyer, is entered in register 2, however, in spatial mutation a real-time map of the land will be issued," said an official of revenue and land reforms department, who was not willing to be named.Additional chief secretary, revenue and land reforms department, Vivek Kumar Singh, said to work on the technicalities of the spatial mutation along with textual mutation, a workshop of experts from Gujarat, Odisha and Telangana was being organised on March 1. “Besides the heads of department, the state information officer of the National Informatics Centre (NIC) has been invited to participate in the workshop. Kamal Jain of IIT Roorkee and technical experts of National Institute of Smart Government (NISG), Hyderabad, will also take part in the workshop,” he said.Singh said revenue department officials and some circle officers will enlist practical problems they might face in implementing the new process, while another official said the buyer of land will get ‘shudhi patra’ or the name transfer certificate displaying map, plot number along with other details of ‘chauhaddi’ or the four next neighbours of the land under the new process.“With the implementation of the new system, maps of all villages will become real-time, which will not hide any information and common people will not get cheated,” said Ram Surat Kumar, minister, revenue and land reforms.Land getting fraudulently re-registered several times has been a common problem in these parts even resulting in criminal assault and murders.Singh said the IT wing of revenue and land reforms department were working with NIC, which has made a software for smooth implementation of the new process.Also Read: 42.8% children severely malnourished in Bihar: Health minister“For spatial mutation, an authorised surveyor will visit the land register the new demarcations before mutation of the land on the software. He will then present pre-mutation sketch to the circle office and get it approved and certified by the competent authority. This will change the land record and also create the real-time map of the village. The buyer will get the map of the plot carrying details along with the ‘shudhi patra’,” said Sanjay Kumar, the technical director of NIC.The department was mulling to implement the scheme after the completion of a special survey, underway in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-plans-spatial-mutation-along-with-textual-mutation-of-land-to-curb-fraud-101614157727139.html
24-02-2021||Delhi||Rented cycle cheapest transport in Delhi but lack of infra a hurdle: WRI||Renting a cycle is the cheapest mode of last-mile connectivity in Delhi, a World Resources Institute (India) analysis has found. The analysis shows renting a cycle costs ₹10 for a five km-ride. The same distance costs ₹20 on the Delhi Metro, ₹60 in an autorickshaw, ₹15 on an air-conditioned (AC) bus, ₹10 on a non-AC bus and between ₹90 to 95 in a cab.The analysis highlighted with traffic levels in cities returning to pre-pandemic levels, it is important to keep the momentum for cycling going. “Cities should explore implementing public bicycle sharing (PBS) systems; a flexible transport service where users can rent a cycle for short periods of time, making it a low-cost, sustainable, and socially distant mode of commute,” said Prateek Diwan, senior project associate, WRI (India).Also Read | Odisha Congress MLAs cycle to state assembly in protest against fuel pricesThe analysis showed cycling mode share (percentage of trips on cycles) was 11% in Delhi and the city ranked fourth after Ranchi (19%), Surat (16%) and Bhopal (13%). The percentage in Delhi was higher than in metropolitan cities such as Hyderabad (10%), Bengaluru (5%) and Mumbai (1%).Despite a reasonable share of commuters relying on it, a lack of safe cycling infrastructure was not letting the mode realise its full potential in Delhi, researchers said.“While this is not to say that people should not use public transport modes, but especially after the Covid-19 pandemic, when there is still an apprehension among people to use mass transit modes, cycling infrastructure can be developed for safe and cheap commuting,” Diwan said.The WRI (India) research noted that when a PBS system is newly introduced in a city, there is a sudden spurt in demand from recreational and curious riders, often driven by promotional discounts. Companies are often unable to sustain this demand and there is a lack of infrastructure for converting cycling into a commuting option.There was a surge in cycle rental when the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation and the New Delhi Municipal Council set up PBS models in central Delhi. There were aimless rides around India Gate, Agrasen ki Baoli and Connaught Place and not for commuting between metro stations or between metro stations and workplaces as they were intended to be. This was primarily because even the existing cycling tracks were either encroached upon or were not available as a continuous stretch. The tracks were also poorly maintained.The Delhi government and the city’s municipalities are working on plans to ensure that cycling tracks are marked along major arterial roads. The Public Works Department in December created a 2.5m-wide rubber-coated cycle track and a separate pedestrian path along a 500m stretch of the Ring Road, from Nehru Nagar to Sriniwaspuri.Officials said the beautification drive, which includes cycle tracks, pedestrian walkways and protected bus stands for users, is part of the government’s bigger project to redevelop and redesign roads to meet European standards.“Work is also on for a 3km stretch between Ashram and Moolchand on the Ring Road, which will be redesigned by creating cycling and pedestrian facilities. In the first phase, we will start similar works on two more road stretches in east Delhi,” an official said.Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced in December that the process of appointing a consultant for redesigning 540km roads to match those in European cities has been completed and a report will be readied by February end.Experts said the government should use the interest among people in cycling because of the pandemic and develop safe spaces for cyclists.Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director (research and advocacy), Centre for Science and Environment, said their analysis has shown that commuters in Delhi were preferring private modes of transportation fearing the spread of infection in shared mass transit modes.“We had seen a major spike in cycling among the middle class, vehicle owning segment, but the government needs to sustain this interest by providing them with safe infrastructure. Once there is a provision of dedicated cycle tracks that are uninterrupted, the demand for cycling will automatically swell. It is a cheaper and healthier option,” said Roychowdhury.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/rented-cycle-cheapest-transport-in-delhi-but-lack-of-infra-a-hurdle-wri-101614155026206.html
24-02-2021||Mumbai||Won’t work in Maharashtra: Shiv Sena targets BJP after Puducherry govt collapse||Referring to the collapse of the Congress government in Puducherry, Shiv Sena mouthpiece Saamana on Wednesday said that the same tactic will not work in Maharashtra. It added that Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s desire to topple the Sena-led government in the state will only remain a dream. “Some BJP leaders have said that now that the Puducherry government has been toppled, the Maharashtra government will collapse in March-April. Similar advertisements were made when the Madhya Pradesh government collapsed [in March 2020] and after Bihar assembly polls. In Madhya Pradesh and Puducherry, the Congress was in power. In Maharashtra it is Shiv Sena, therefore nobody should even think about toppling the government... The results in Maharashtra are the will of the people and will not change,” the editorial said.Also Read | Won’t allow sale of Patanjali’s Coronil without proper certification: Maharashtra minThe editorial slammed the BJP and Union government over the toppling of governments, including in Madhya Pradesh. It said that winning over legislators by luring them and using central agencies has become an act of “bravery”. It said that turncoats are being given the “red carpet”, adding that such an atmosphere is detrimental for democracy.In a veiled attack on Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari, the editorial said that those who disrupt the state government’s work at the behest of the Centre must remember that they can be “thrown away” after use. “Governors are used like curry leaves in food for tempering. [Former Puducherry lieutenant governor] Kiran Bedi was thrown away like curry leaves after use. The one tempering food in Maharashtra should understand this,” the editorial said indirectly referring to governor Koshyari. No immediate response was available from the BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/wont-work-in-maharashtra-shiv-sena-targets-bjp-after-puducherry-govt-collapse-101614154246140.html
24-02-2021||Other||Sevapuri in PM’s seat being developed as India’s first model block||Today, Amini, a little known village panchayat in Sevapuri, Varanasi, can boast of a panchayat secretariat equipped with Internet connection, a proper road, a wellness centre, sports ground surrounded by a boundary, garbage bins, and rickshaw carts to collect and dispose of waste, a newly built community toilet and a veterinary center.But Amini isn’t alone: All 87 village panchayats in Sevapuri are being developed by Varanasi district administration as India’s first model block.Niti Aayog selected Sevapuri block in the beginning of 2020 to turn it into a model ideal block by ensuring 100% implementation of Central and state government developmental and social welfare schemes in all of its 87 village panchayats.However, Covid-19 delayed the implementation for about five months. In July 2020, Niti Aayog chief executive officer Amitabh Kant visited Sevapuri and held a meeting with divisional commissioner Deepak Agarwal and district magistrate Kaushalraj Sharma.“Under the model ideal developmental block project, we set 141 goals, including installation of garbage bins, providing rickshaw carts for garbage collection, construction of community toilets, transformation of government primary and upper primary schools, construction and renovation of panchayat secretariats with Internet connection, registration of people for old age, divyang and widow pension, skill development training and others to achieve desired outcomes,” said Deepak Agarwal, divisional commissioner.Also Read | UP govt doles out thousands of crores on expressways in budget 2021All 87 village panchayats were connected to all-weather roads, had panchayat secretariats, 2,577 garbage bins were distributed in these villages, a community toilet was built in each village and 87 ponds were dug up. Also, 50 local young people interested in fisheries were imparted training by the department of fisheries. Then, 1,136 eligible people were enrolled for old age pension, 174 for divyang pension, 362 for widow pension and 282 for Mukhyamantri Kanya Sumangala Yojana.Agarwal said now that each panchayat secretariat has internet connection and a common service center, locals don’t have to run to block office or tehsil for birth certificate, for their land documents or even for applying for pensions.Under Operation Kayakalp, government primary and upper primary schools have been transformed. Children’s libraries were set up in 124 schools and classroom floors were tiled. Boundary walls were built in 13 schools which didn’t have them and 53 schools were given electricity connection. Drinking water facility was also provided in 23 schools.“The model ideal developmental block Sevapuri project is an outcome -driven project,” said the divisional commissioner. “Out of the 141 goals, 122 have been achieved,” he added.“It is important to note that we have achieved the desired outcomes simply by convergence of various departments’ schemes and funds available with them, without any additional resources,” he said.Ouside Jogiyapur village in the ideal block area, a MNREGA-herbal park has been developed. Medicinal plants of 40 indigenous species such as Kaalmegh, Madar, Shatavari and Ashwagandha have been planted there. Four local women are assigned the task of looking after the park.“Sevapuri developmental block was considered as the most interior developmental block in the district. It has been transformed now. Sevapuri developmental block office is equipped with an auditorium and high speed internet facilities,” said Devesh Singh, a senior employee at the block.Over 2,200 volunteers were roped in to educate the locals about health and sanitation in the villages, said Umeshmani Tripathi, project director, District Rural Development Authority and nodal officer for the model block project.Locals, however, aren’t so upbeat and voice mixed opinions. “Many developmental works have been done in our village,” said Phoolchand Kesari of Amini village.However, another local, Sukharaj Patel, said, “Garbage bins have been placed in the villages to paint a rosy picture. But nothing has changed inside the villages. Lanes still need to be turned into concrete roads. Steps for employment generation should also be taken.”Manoj Kumar, also of Amini village, said, “Wellness centre and other facilities are useful for the locals. In case of any ailment, they consult the health official deployed at the wellness centre. Niti Aayog should also have a concrete plan for employment generation in rural pockets so that people like me don’t remain jobless.”Social activist Panchmukhi said, “Unemployment is a major problem in the area. It should be solved.”Meanwhile, divisional commissioner Agarwal said Sevapuri would turn into a model ideal developmental block by April this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sevapuri-in-pm-s-seat-becoming-a-role-model-of-development-101614153406035.html
24-02-2021||Kolkata||Bomb attack on Bengal minister: CID detains Bangladeshi national||The West Bengal CID has detained a Bangladeshi national in connection with the blast in Murshidabad's Nimtita Railway Station in which state minister Jakir Hossain and over 20 others were injured, an official said on Wednesday.Hossain, Trinamool Congress MLA and the minister of state for labour, was waiting at platform number 2 to catch a train to Kolkata around 10 pm on February 17 when the blast occurred, seriously injuring him and the others."We have detained one person and investigation is underway," a senior CID official said.Hossain and the other injured persons are undergoing treatment at a state-run hospital in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bomb-attack-on-bengal-minister-cid-detains-bangladeshi-national-101614152832043.html
24-02-2021||Lucknow||UP power corporation seeks change in tariff slabs to get more revenue||The UP Power Corporation Ltd (UPPCL) has sought, yet again, reorganisation of existing power tariff slabs applicable to consumers under various categories in a bid that may make power usage costlier for some categories and bring more revenue to the corporation without any direct tariff increase.The annual revenue requirement (ARR) proposal (for 2021-22) submitted by the corporation to UP Electricity Regulatory Commission (UPERC) has proposed revision of the current tariff structure that would remove or merge some tariff categories and create some fresh slabs if the regulator accepts the proposal.“The UPPCL has filed the ARR with a proposal for changes in current tariff slabs much like the proposal it filed last year and we rejected the same,” a senior official at UP’s power regulator said, adding “We will now examine the ARR before we admit it for consideration.”Last year, the UPPCL had sought a reduction in subcategories/slabs under consumer categories LMV-1 (domestic) LMV-2 (commercial), LMV-3 (public lamps), LMV-4 (institutions), LMV-6(small and medium industries) LMV-9 (temporary supply), HV-1 (non-industrial bulk load) and HV-3(heavy industries).It also proposed an increase in the number of sub-categories under the category LMV-7 (public waterworks) and sought deletion of the entire category LMV-8 (state tube wells) proposing its merger in the category LMV-7. “The proposal is, by and large, on the same lines this year,” the official said.Opposing the proposal, UP Rajya Vidyut Upbhokta Parishad chairman Avadhesh Kumar Verma on Tuesday filed a petition in the UPERC urging it to reject the UPPCL’s entire ARR which he claimed was based on imaginary figures. “The proposal for change in the consumer categorization is an attempt to get tariff increase through the backdoor,” he alleged. The ARR has put the UPPCL’s total revenue requirement during 2021-22 at ₹81,901 crore that also included an estimated expenditure of ₹62,020 crore on the purchase of 1,20,043 million units (MUs) of electricity during the year.The UPPCL has forecast the distribution losses to 16.64% for 2021-22 against the 11.08% approved by the UPERC in its last tariff order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-power-corporation-seeks-change-in-tariff-slabs-to-get-more-revenue-101614151542311.html
24-02-2021||Other||Sutradhara’s tales: A handsome Vishnu statue amongst the ruins reveals Pune’s tryst with the “Golden Age”||PUNE The study of cultural history is based on nature and scope of evidence, either in textual, material or oral form. No amount of imagination compensates for the lack of evidence. Often, the lack of evidence means a break in continuity of timelines and fragmentation of collective historical understanding. This poses a great challenge to comprehend historical events.Hence, a true “sutradhara” is on the constant look out for new exciting pieces of the jigsaw puzzle to complete the picture.The various coins and coin hoards found in the vicinity of Pune reflect a strong Satavahana and Kshatrapa dynastic presence. A significant discovery was also made in July 1974 at Rajangaon, 30km from Pune, when a Kshatrapa coin hoard of 1,518 coins was discovered. These coins, studied by Dr Shobhana Gokhale, Dr Deo and Dr M K Dhavalikar, consisted mainly of silver coins of the Kardamaka branch of the Western Kshatrapas.Western Kshatrapas were Indo-Scythian by origin and involved in international trade in northern western India. Back in Pune city, excavations revealed terracotta pottery dating to the Vakataka period (5th-6th century CE), above the Satavahana layers. Now, who are these Vakataka folks? Vakataka dynasty is one of the lesser known, but significant dynasties of not just Maharashtra, but India. They are contemporary to the famous Gupta dynasty in the north, of which Chandragupta Vikramaditya is a well-known king. History also informs us of the poet par excellence, Mahakavi Kalidas, spending time in the Vakataka courts in Vidarbha.The proverbial “Golden age” in Indian history has been attributed to this period of Guptas by earlier scholars. Such times are characterised by large-scale development and achievements in various areas. These fields included engineering, art, science, technology, literature, mathematics, astronomy, religion and philosophy. Recently studies by scholars offer more nuanced narrative attributing the golden age not to Gupta alone but to combined Gupta Vakataka age around 5th to 6th century CE. The era saw great strides and achievements in literature and especially art and culture which essentially defined Indian art. Testimony to this golden age is sufficiently found in art sculpture and paintings at Ajanta caves, carrying legacy of Vakataka reign. Recent studies offer a more nuanced narrative attributing the golden age not to the Guptas alone, but to the combined Gupta Vakataka age around 5th to 6th century CE. It was only by sheer luck and presence of mind of Mr Balkawade, that we could preserve the significant marker of the Indian classical age from Pune. The renovation of a 200-year-old Lokhande wada in Kasba peth was in full swing on December 23, 1999. The demolishers hit a stone masonry chamber while digging the foundation 20 feet underground. And to everyone’s wonder, a near intact sculpture of lord Vishnu was exposed.The digging caused some damage to the idol. The owners were reluctant to preserve the damaged sculpture of lord Vishnu and decided to submerge it in river water. Thanks to vigilant citizens, Balakawade was informed. The sculpture is a masterpiece and has immense historical value. It measures 20 inches by 11 inches.The sculpture is a samabhanga sthanaka (standing, balanced on two limbs) and has four arms. The upper hand holds a cylindrical mace and the other hand holds a disc or sudarshan chakra. The lower arm holds a conch or panchajanya shankha in akimbo and the other arm is in partial varad mudra. The end of the mace merges in a small lady-like figure which is the feminine personification of kaumudaki gada, or mace of Vishnu. The other attendant like male figure could be the personification of shankha purusha or conch resting its head. It is interesting to note that Padma, the lotus flower, an original attribute of Lakshmi is absent. The handsome figure is carved in complete relief and has rectangular headgear which is a style attributed to the Kushana Gupta period. The headgear in the rear has a feta-like appearance. An Ekavali ornament is seen around the neck alongwith kundala in the ears. The figure doesn’t wear a yadnopavit, sacred thread across the chest nor has a sri-vatsa symbol of Lakshmi. The figure wears a lower garment and has a long twisted cloth strap, characteristic of Kushana-Gupta period figures. The sculpture has an extension at the bottom to place it in a niche. This handsome Vishnu has calm and classical features which reflect great style and craftsmanship of 4th century CE. The stone is schist or soapstone, black and fine grained. The entire surface of sculpture is polished. How it came to be and where it came from, are many questions which remain unanswered. The exceptional sculpture was saved and is safely preserved with the Lokhande family, today. Marking an important milestone in Pune’s journey it truly is a classical enigma to be admired.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sutradharas-tales-a-handsome-vishnu-statue-amongst-the-ruins-reveals-pune-s-tryst-with-the-golden-age-101614151485138.html
24-02-2021||Bangalore||Kerala CM writes to PM over Karnataka’s mandatory Covid-19 test for visitors||The governments of Karnataka and Kerala on Tuesday got into a spat over mandatory Covid-19 negative certificates required for people entering the former. Kerala CM wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi alleging the restriction were inconveniencing students, patients and trucks carrying essential supplies from Kerala to Karnataka, which was against the Central government issued guidelines.“Many people, mainly students, trucks carrying essential commodities and patients going for medical treatment are put to undue hardship at the state borders due to this. Kind note may be taken of the fact that imposing restrictions on inter-state movement of people by states is contrary to the instructions of the Government of India, which are at present holding the field,” Vijayan said in his letter.The letter comes days after Karnataka mandated Covid-19 negative certificates for visitors to check the rise in infections, seen in neighbouring states like Maharashtra and Kerala. Karnataka has seen a steady rise in cases, following which the decision to deploy marshals at wedding halls has been taken among other steps to avoid another lockdown. Karnataka reported 383 fresh Covid-19 positive cases on Tuesday, taking the toll to 948,849 and the death toll has climbed to 12,303 with four deaths reported on Tuesday. All four deaths were from Bengaluru, which saw 240 fresh cases of infections on Tuesday. The cluster at SJR Watermark apartments, an upscale housing complex in Bellandur area, doubled to 20, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) said.There are at least two other clusters in Bengaluru, one with over 100 positive cases.In protest of the requirement of Covid-19 negative certificates to enter Karnataka, drivers and other travellers staged protests at the Talpady border that connects Kerala and Dakshina Kannada district, about 350 km from Bengaluru. There are just four entry points connecting Kerala and the coastal districts of Karnataka and are always busy due to daily trips by truck and bus drivers as well as students who live across the border.Also Read: Karnataka teachers, school officials take to streets against 30% fee cut orderKarnataka health minister later issued a clarification in response to Kerala’s objection. “Karnataka has not prohibited inter-state travel between Karnataka and Kerala. However, as a precautionary measure, guidelines have been issued that travellers entering Karnataka from Kerala must mandatorily possess a negative RT-PCR test report not older than 72 hours,” said Dr K Sudhakar on Twitter.The state has so far vaccinated (first and second dose) 724,515 people, covering 71% of its target of 1,019,386.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/kerala-cm-writes-to-pm-over-karnataka-s-mandatory-covid-19-test-for-visitors-101614150533420.html
24-02-2021||Chandigarh||Noted Punjabi singer Sardool Sikander passes away at the age of 60||Noted Punjabi singer Sardool Sikander, who was being treated in Punjab’s Mohali, passed away on Wednesday. He was 60. Tributes poured in following the death of the celebrated singer, who had also undergone a kidney transplant a few years ago. Chief minister Amarinder Singh informed on Twitter that the Sikander had tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and was being treated for it. “Extremely saddened to learn of the demise of legendary Punjabi singer Sardool Sikander. He was recently diagnosed with #Covid19 and was undergoing treatment for the same. The world of Punjabi music is poorer today. My heartfelt condolences to his family and fans,” he tweeted.Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) chief Sukhbir Singh Badalalso took to Twitter to condole Sikander’s death. “Saddened to learn about the demise of legendary Punjabi playback singer Sardool Sikander. A huge loss to Punjabi movie & music Industry. Prayers for his family, friends & fans. May his soul rest in peace!,” he wrote on Twitter.Preneet Kaur, former minister of state for external affairs and member of Parliament from Patiala, also paid tribute to the singer on the microblogging site. “Saddened by the demise of legendary Punjabi singer and music icon Sardool Sikander Ji. His sudden death has left a big vacuum in Punjabi music industry and also in the hearts of millions of fans worldwide. My thoughts and prayers are with the family. RIP,” she tweeted. “Paying condolences to the family members of Sardool Sikander Ji whose contribution towards Punjabi music industry is immense. May his soul rest in peace,” the Congress’s Punjab unit posted on Twitter. Singer Harshdeep Kaur also expressed anguish at the legendary singer’s demise. “Bahut hi dukhad khabar... Saddened to hear about the demise of legendary Punjabi singer Sardool Sikander Ji. Huge loss to the music Industry. Prayers for his family,” she tweeted.Fortis Hospital, where he was being treated, also issued a statement. "The hospital Noted Punjabi singer, Mr Sardool Sikander, passed away at Fortis Hospital, Mohali, on Wednesday, February 24 at 11:55 am. He was 60. He was admitted to Fortis Mohali on January 19 in a very serious condition with complaints of Low oxygen levels. Mr Sikander, who was diabetic, was recently treated for Covid-19. He had undergone renal transplant in 2016 and Percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) in 2003. In spite of the best efforts of the doctors and other care givers at Fortis Mohali, his condition improved only marginally over the next 3-4 weeks. Due to his severely compromised state of health, his condition deteriorated again and had to be put on Life Support. Unfortunately, the patient breathed his last with his family at the bedside. Fortis Mohali extends its heartfelt condolences on the sad demise of Mr Sikander," the statement read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/noted-punjabi-singer-sardool-sikander-passes-away-at-the-age-of-60-101614149805046.html
24-02-2021||Patna||42.8% children severely malnourished in Bihar: Health minister||Bihar health minister Mangal Pandey on Tuesday told the Legislative Council that health cards were distributed among 1.22 crore children up to 18 years, offering supplementary medicines to deal with severe malnutrition, suffered by over 42% of the children in the state.“Around 41% of children suffer from low weight in respect to their age, while 2.40% are obese,” said the minister citing the latest National Family and Health Survey (NHFS-5) data.Congress MLC Prem Chandra Mishra alleged that the health department’s delivery system had worsened in the state over the last two decades and incidents of malnutrition and anaemia among children and expecting mothers had increased compared to other states.The minister, however, admitted that about 63.5% of children in the age group of six months to five years were found to be anaemic and said the government has been distributing iron folic acid syrup, to be given to such children twice a week. “Besides, children up to the age of one year are being provided anti-worm drugs regularly. Children suffering from acute anaemia are being treated under the national child health programme,” said Pandey.To another query from the Congress member, Pandey admitted that the prevalence of anaemia among pregnant women is around 58% and said that Asha workers were counselling the expecting mothers about healthy diet apart from offering medicinal supplements.Also Read:Bihar: CJI SA Bobde to inaugurate new Patna high court buildingResponding to a short notice question by Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) member Rambali Singh, the minister said as many as 6,338 post of doctors were vacant at different hospitals and the requisition for their appointment was sent to the general administration department (GAD). In 2020, the health department had posted 3,186 newly recruited doctors.“The department has received recommendation for appointment of 5,097 grade A nurses against the vacancy of 9,130 posts. Process has also been launched to fill up the vacancies of auxiliary nurse midwives (ANMs) and other technical staff,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/428-children-severely-malnourished-in-bihar-health-minister-101614146882323.html
24-02-2021||Lucknow||7 killed in Yamuna Expressway crash after car hits tanker which overturned||Seven persons including four from a family and two relatives died in an accident on Yamuna Expressway in Mathura district on Tuesday night when a car collided with a tanker, killing all occupants of the car including the driver. Uttar Pradesh chief minister Aditya Yoginath expressed grief and directed local authorities to provide all required assistance to the affected.“The accident took place at about 11 pm on Tuesday night. The car with six passengers and a driver was moving towards Noida. A tanker was moving towards Agra from Noida and was on the other side of the divider,” said Sirish Chand, the superintendent of police (rural) Mathura.The car crashed into the tanker which suddenly overturned to the other side of the divider after one of its tyres reportedly burst, the SP added. The collision was so powerful that the car was crushed, killing all seven on the spot.“The accident took place at 68 Milestone within limits of Naujheel police station of Mathura district. Damaged vehicles were removed and the expressway was cleared for traffic later in the night,” said SP Chand.Also Read: Farmers’ protest: Multiple Delhi borders remain closed for trafficThe deceased were from Safidon tehsil in Jind district of Haryana and were identified as Manoj (47), his wife Babita (40) and two sons Abhay (18) and Hemant (16). Two other relatives included Kannu aged 10 years and Himadri (14) beside driver Rakesh (39), said a police official, who did not wish to be named.The bodies have been sent for post-mortem and their relatives have been informed.The 165 kilometers long Yamuna Expressway connects Agra with Noida and is infamous for road accidents, mostly due to over speeding, despite several measures taken to make travel safe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/7-killed-in-yamuna-expressway-crash-after-car-hits-tanker-which-overturned-101614143610212.html
24-02-2021||Delhi||Delhi to make negative RT-PCR test must for passengers from 5 states||Passengers using public transport to arrive in Delhi from Maharashtra, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab and Chhattisgarh will have to show a negative RT-PCR Covid-19 test report from Saturday, a senior government official said on Wednesday. The decision was taken by Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) this week in the wake of increasing Covid-19 cases in these five states.Also Read | Delhi, Punjab, Chhattisgarh: List of state-wise curbs amid Covid-19“Any passenger arriving in Delhi via private or state-run buses, flights or trains will have to show a negative RT-PCR test report on their arrival in the national Capital. The test report will have to be that of the last 72 hours from the time of the person’s arrival in Delhi,” said the official. An order notifying this rule will be issued later in the day and the rule will have to be enforced at least till March 15, until further orders, he added. A second official said RT-PCR test reports of passengers who plan to stay in guest houses or “bhawans” of any of the five states will be checked by the resident commissioner of that state in Delhi.It is likely that the rule will come into force from 11.59pm on February 26 and will be in force till 12pm on March 15. “While someone arriving in Delhi by road from these states is unlikely to be asked for an RT-PCR negative report, those travelling by plane will get their boarding pass at their home state only if they show a negative test report. At Delhi’s airport, railway stations and interstate bus terminals too, officials will be deployed to check the Covid-19 test reports of those arriving from these states,” the second official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-to-make-negative-rt-pcr-test-must-for-passengers-from-5-states-101614143745645.html
24-02-2021||Lucknow||‘Tandav FIR': Amazon India Originals head records statement before UP police||Amazon Prime Video’s India Originals head Aparna Purohit on Tuesday recorded her statement before Lucknow police in connection with an FIR lodged against her and others over the alleged derogatory depiction of Hindu deities in web series “Tandav” at Hazratganj police station here on January 17.The inspector in-charge of Hazratganj police station Shyam Babu Shukla confirmed that Purohit visited the police station to record her statement. He said the investigation officer, additional inspector AK Singh, recorded her statement for around four hours, during which he asked several questions related to the case.Shukla said she could be called again, if required, for questioning. He, however, refused to share any details about the statement given by herThe Allahabad high court had, earlier this month, ordered that no coercive action should be taken against Purohit in the case and asked her and the other accused to get their statements recorded. Other than Purohit, the web series director Ali Abbas, producer Himanshu Krishna Mehra, writer Gaurav Solanki and an unidentified person were named in the FIR.The nine-episode political thriller, starring Bollywood A-listers Saif Ali Khan, Dimple Kapadia and Mohd Zeeshan Ayyub, started streaming on the platform in January.In Uttar Pradesh, FIRs have been registered against the show in Greater Noida and Shahjahanpur also, besides Lucknow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/tandav-fir-amazon-india-originals-head-records-statement-before-up-police-101614142534922.html
24-02-2021||Mumbai||Covid-19 effect: Passenger traffic at Mumbai airport dipped by 73% last year||The Covid-19 pandemic that resulted in a complete shutdown of all air services for two months last year caused a steep fall in numbers at the country’s second largest airport, Mumbai’s Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA), as per Airports Authority of India (AAI) data.In the period between January-December 2020, passenger traffic dipped a massive 73% as compared to 2019. Passenger traffic last year was 8,016,456 against 29,521,918 in 2019, revealed the AAI data.In the pre-Covid days, CSMIA got an average of 42,000 international passengers per day but this number fell to 18,000 by mid-March last year. Domestic traffic too dropped by 15-20%.Experts believe that it will take some time before air traffic can reach its pre-Covid levels. CS Subbiah, former chief executive officer of Alliance Air, said, “How can the air traffic reach pre-Covid levels when we are not even allowing flights to operate at their full capacity? (It won’t happen) unless state governments ease their respective restrictions, and more people are successfully vaccinated. International flights majorly contribute to passenger traffic; hence air traffic and passenger footfall will significantly increase with opening of the international borders.”However, the pandemic is not the only factor for lower number of passengers at the city airport. A drop in footfall is also being attributed to the now-defunct Jet Airways suspending its flight operations. The footfall at CSMIA dropped to 95,000, 27% lower than the average daily footfall at the city airport then, when Jet flights were suspended, shows data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid19-effect-passenger-traffic-at-mumbai-airport-dipped-by-73-last-year-101614142546255.html
24-02-2021||Lucknow||UP Assembly passes resolution to name Ayodhya airport after Lord Ram||A day after making an announcement in the state budget (2021-2022) that the upcoming airport in Ayodhya would be named 'Maryada Purushottam Shriram Airport', the state government got a resolution in this regard passed in the state assembly here on Tuesday.“The Uttar Pradesh assembly resolves to rename the airport situated in the city of Bhagwan Shri Ram as Maryada Purushottam Shriram Airport, Ayodhya,” read the resolution that minister for parliamentary affairs Suresh Khanna moved in the House.A senior officer of the state government said the proposal for naming the airport would be sent to the union government that would take a final decision in this regard.In his budget speech in the state assembly on Monday, Suresh Khanna had declared that the Ayodhya airport would be named as Maryada Purushottam Shriram Airport, Ayodhya.The state government’s resolution pointed out that a magnificent temple of Lord Ram was being built in Ayodhya following the Supreme Court’s decision on November 9, 2019 and the airstrip situated there was being developed as an airport for bigger aircraft.“Ayodhya is the most ancient religious town situated on the banks of Saryu river. Ayodhya, the birthplace of Shri Ram is among the seven ancient and holy centres for the Hindus. The seven holy cities include Ayodhya, Mathura, Haridwar, Kashi, Kanchipuram, Ujjain and Dwarika,” read the resolution.It read: “Atharvaveda has described Ayodhya as the city of God and compared its prosperity with heaven.” It said according to the Ramayana, Manu had established Ayodhya and the city remained capital of Suryavansh for centuries.It said Ayodhya was a centre of pilgrimage and primarily a city of temples.The resolution also listed some ancient temples, including Hanuman Garhi, and said there were some Jain temples too situated there.It said lakhs of pilgrims visited the town.According to Puranic beliefs, Suryavanshi/Raghuvanshi kings used to rule Ayodhya where Lord Rama was born.Freed 67,000 hectares of land from mafia: CMChief minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday said in the Vidhan Parishad that the anti-land mafia task force set up by his government had so far freed 67,000 hectares (ha) of land so far and this land was being used to develop playgrounds and gyms in rural areas.The CM said his government had a clear policy to develop sports facilities in villages.Replying to a question, Yogi Adityanath said the state government had formed an anti-land mafia squad in 2017 to free private and public land occupied illegally by anti-social elements. “As much as 67,000 hectares of land has been freed so far and sports facilities are being developed there,” he said.DMs must identify land where land was not available to build playgrounds near schools, he said.The CM said panchayats had been directed to use State Finance Commission’s funds available to them to build open gyms and playgrounds in villages.“We are also constituting Yuva Mangal Dals and Mahila Mangal Dals while sports kits are being provided to players to encourage sports in rural areas,” the CM added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-assembly-passes-resolution-to-name-ayodhya-airport-after-lord-ram-101614142235533.html
24-02-2021||Patna||Bihar: CJI SA Bobde to inaugurate new Patna high court building||Chief Justice of India SA Bobde will inaugurate the new building of Patna high court on Saturday in presence of a limited number of guests in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.“Social distancing and other norms would be strictly followed,” said Patna high court registrar general Nawneet Kumar Pandey.Sanjay Karol, the high court chief justice, and Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar would also attend the inauguration ceremony.The new building, to be christened Shatabdi Bhawan, has come up at the cost of ₹116 crore. Then chief justice of Patna high court Rekha M Doshit and Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar had laid the foundation stone of the building in February 2014. It was supposed to be completed by 2016. However, the construction was delayed as the contractor dropped out and subsequent outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic.Also Read | Bihar: Man found dead hours after his arrest for murdering his infant daughterOfficials said the new building has around 50 courtrooms and 58 chambers for judges, including some earmarked for registrars. Currently, the Patna high court has 21 judges against the sanctioned strength of 43.One of the registrars said that the original court building would be turned into a museum, while the adjacent structures, which were developed later, would be used for official works.The new premises are located on the eastern side of the main building, which was built in a neo-classical style based on a Palladian design. The old iconic building has been operational since its inauguration in 1916.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-cji-sa-bobde-to-inaugurate-new-patna-high-court-building-101614142065785.html
24-02-2021||Chandigarh||1 dead, 3 injured in Haryana cracker factory blast||One person died and three others sustained burn injuries in a blast in a cracker factory on the outskirts of Karnal city in Haryana late evening on Tuesday, said police.Karnal superintendent of police Ganga Ram Punia said one body was recovered from the factory and the three injured, whose condition is said to be critical, were hospitalised. An investigation is going on to ascertain the reasons for the blast.The blast took place around 9.30 pm when the workers were inside the factory located on the Ghogripur road. The locals said the blast was so strong that it damaged a major portion of the factory.The deceased could not be identified yet and the injured have been identified as Shivam Kumar (28), Vijay Pal (22) and Vijay Kumar (25). All of them were migrant workers employed with the cracker factory.Also Read: Centre should resume dialogue with protesting farmers: HoodaA relative of the cracker factory’s owner, Rakesh Kumar, who rushed the injured to the hospital said the blast took place when the victims were cleaning the production area.Soon after the incident, a police team reached the spot and four fire tenders were called-in to contain the flames. Police officials said the reasons behind the blast are yet to be determined.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/1-dead-3-injured-in-haryana-cracker-factory-blast-101614140870587.html
24-02-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Policy for doorstep delivery of ration notified||The Delhi government has notified a policy document which prescribes the modalities of the doorstep delivery of ration scheme – an initiative that can potentially make monthly ration more accessible to 1.75 million households in the Capital, exempting families from long queues at fair price shops.The document, which HT has seen, said: “The scheme will be optional, and an option shall be taken from the beneficiaries of the existing TPDS [targeted public distribution system] in Delhi, as to whether they want to enrol under the scheme or continue under existing TPDS. Those who are not opting for the scheme shall continue to get their ration as per existing mechanism and price. Beneficiaries will be able to exercise option in the beginning of every financial year.”On January 25, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said that the scheme will be operational by March.Earlier, the proposed scheme had been designed to automatically include all ration beneficiaries in the city unless they chose to “opt out” of it by responding to a specific text message sent by the food and civil supplies department within a 10-day window, said a report published in HT on February 13.Also Read | AAP springs a surprise, Kejriwal thanks votersA senior government official said, “We received feedback that suggested that the auto-inclusion process, which provided beneficiaries 10 days to opt-out by responding to a text message sent by the government could confuse people as well as agencies entrusted with the doorstep delivery. So, the process has been simplified. Now people will have to specifically give consent for inclusion. The registration process will be rolled out in another week.”The scheme document, that was notified on February 20, detailed the process. It said foodgrains will be collected from food corporation godowns by agencies empanelled by the government and sent to mills wherein grains such as wheat will be processed into flour and packed. Similarly, there will be units for ther cleaning and packing of rice too. The packets will be delivered to fair price shops and from thereon to residences of beneficiaries who opt for the scheme.The beneficiaries will have to register the receipt of the ration with their fingerprints on the biometric-based electronic point-of-sales (e-POS) machines, which representatives of the agencies entrusted with doorstep delivery will carry. The entire operation will be monitored from the godown stage to the doorstep through CCTV cameras, GPS-fitted vehicles, e-POS logs, etc, said the document.Delhi has 1.75 million ration card holders, which translates to 7.16 million beneficiaries, according to authorities. Of the total ration card holders, 1.51 million are covered under the priority household category of the National Food Security Act, 2013, while 0.17 million are covered under priority state household category, and the remaining 0.07 million come under the Antyodaya Anna Yojana, show government records.While those under the first two categories are entitled to 5kg of foodgrains a month, those under the third category are entitled to 25kg wheat, 10kg rice and 1kg sugar every month. These items are distributed to them from 2,010 fair price shops that are currently functional across the city.The project was cleared by the Delhi Cabinet in March 2018 but could not be rolled out because of several administrative issues, some of which even led to stand-offs between the elected government led by the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and officials in charge of the department. Some of the administrative issues pertained to legal provisions under the food security law, which took more than one year to be resolved, said a senior government official.The project was given a fresh push ahead of the assembly polls in Delhi in February 2020 and a pilot run for three months was conducted in five municipal wards of north Delhi. In July 2020, the new Cabinet gave fresh approval to the project.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-policy-for-doorstep-delivery-of-ration-notified-101614138405160.html
24-02-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka teachers, school officials take to streets against 30% fee cut order||Thousands of teachers, private school management representatives and other non-teaching staff from various educational institutions on Tuesday carried out a protest in Bengaluru against the state government’s order directing private schools to take a 30% cut in fee.Around 25,000 people took part in the protest.Parents and private schools have locked horns over the issue with the latter resisting the order and saying that they have to pay their staff despite the loss of income due to Covid-19.“The objective of the protest is the financial distress of private education institutions, unscientific fee reduction and the imposition of a new school clause for the old schools under the Covid-19 pandemic in the name of the accreditation renewal,” a statement from Karnataka Private School Managements, Teaching & Non-Teaching Staff Coordination Committee (KPMTCC) read.“It will become difficult for school managements to sustain operations,” Shashi Kumar, general secretary of Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka (KAMS), said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-teachers-school-officials-take-to-streets-against-30-fee-cut-order-101614137859138.html
24-02-2021||Bangalore||Panic over crackdown on illegal explosives led to Chikkaballapur blast||Six people were killed while trying to dispose of gelatin sticks at a quarry site in Hirenagavalli village of Karnataka’s Chikkaballapur early on Tuesday.The government has ordered a CID probe into the blast.Police said panic over a crackdown on illegal explosives led to the blast, adding that the owners of the Brahama Varshini quarry had employed their workers to dispose of the explosives, even though the workers were not proficient in handling them.The unscientific way of handling the explosives, where charges and detonators were kept together, led to the explosion, said police officers after the initial investigation.Also Read: ‘Didn't know what was in bag, says driver who transported explosivesFollowing a similar blast in Shivamogga, chief minister Yediyurappa’s home constituency, on January 22, police had begun a state-wide crackdown on illegal explosives. An investigation by the Internal Security Division (ISD) led to the arrest of a dealer of explosives, who led the police to Brahma Varshini quarry, a source in the ISD said.“It began with the arrest of one Shivakumar in Chintamani (in Chikkaballapur) for storing explosives illegally in his house. He was employed with a quarry in the same place. During the interrogation, he revealed the name of his supplier – Gangoji Rao,” the officer said.Within days, police tracked down Gangoji Rao, who is a licensed explosive dealer. However, he had illegally supplied explosives to several quarries, including Brahma Varshini, in and around Chikkaballapur.Based on the information from the ISD, the local police conducted a surprise raid on the quarry on February 7. After they found violations in the procurement and storage of explosives, the quarry was shut down.“We suspect that fearing further investigation and raids, the owners of the quarry wanted to remove the explosives from the location, and it was done in the most unscientific way. The experts we spoke with said that workers had kept the charges and detonators together. Even cell phone signal could have led to the blast,” he added.Sources said the raid on the Brahma Varshini was part of many raids conducted by the police over a month.ADGP Bhaskar Rao, who was heading the ISD raids, said a total of 20 cases involving illegal explosives were registered since February this year, including 14 by the ISD. “We found several violations such as people without licences dealing explosives, non-scientific methods of storing...We have seized over 100 detonators...,” the officer addedIllegal quarrying in ChikkaballapurAfter studying satellite images sourced from the National Remote Sensing Centre, the Department of Mines and Geology (DMG) and the Indian Institute of Science (IISc) had identified 532 illegal quarries in the Chikkaballapur district in 2019.The findings were mentioned in the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) report as well, in which DMG was asked to take action against these illegal quarries. According to the report, at least 11.12 crore metric tonnes of specified and unspecified minerals were illegally extracted, causing loss of ₹223.25 crore to the state.The larger pictureOfficials of DMG said there could be more than 2,000 illegal quarries across Karnataka. “There are around 450 licences issued for decorative stone quarries and 300 stone quarries. But there are way more quarries, we estimate it to be around 2,000,” said an official on the condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/panic-over-crackdown-on-illegal-explosives-led-to-chikkaballapur-blast-101614137302759.html
24-02-2021||Other||Bihar: Man found dead hours after his arrest for murdering his infant daughter||A 32-year-old man arrested for allegedly killing his three-month-old daughter in Bihar’s Saran district was found hanging at a police station lock-up on Tuesday, a police officer said.“CCTV footage [from the police station has been preserved to facilitate the inquiry [which] has been ordered to ascertain if there were lapses in the way the police handled [the case]. An autopsy has been conducted...the report is still awaited,” the officer said.The man was arrested after his wife, who also accused him of domestic violence, lodged a complaint saying he allegedly killed their daughter in an inebriated condition. He was found hanging from a blanket hours later and rushed to a hospital where he was declared dead.Also Read | Unnao deaths: Survivor records statement before magistrateThe officer said an initial breath analyser test and subsequent medical examination confirmed the 32-year-old had consumed liquor. Prohibition has been imposed in Bihar since 2016 The man’s family alleged he was beaten up in the lock-up. After the news of his death broke, dozens of people surrounded the police station and blocked Chhapra-Patna national highway and disrupted vehicular traffic for over three hours. They alleged torture led to the man’s death and demanded a case be registered against the accused policemen.The family demanded registration of a murder case, but police registered a first information report under the Indian Penal Code section related to abetment to suicide.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bihar-man-found-dead-hours-after-his-arrest-for-murdering-his-infant-daughter-101614137265180.html
24-02-2021||Delhi||Farmers’ protest: Multiple Delhi borders remain closed for traffic||Several borders of Delhi with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh (UP) continued to remain closed for vehicular movement on Wednesday because of the ongoing farmers’ protest against the Centre’s three new farm laws.For commuters coming to Delhi from Uttar Pradesh, Ghazipur border has been closed. Traffic police have advised them to take routes passing through Anand Vihar, DND, Loni and Apsara borders. Commuters can also take the Chilla border route.The entry and exit points between Delhi and Haryana, passing through Singhu, Tikri, Auchandi, Piau Maniyari and Saboli and Mangesh, continue to remain closed.Also Read | Delhi judge finds police probe sketchy and scanty, grants bail to Disha RaviTraffic police have advised commuters to take alternate routes via Lampur Safiabad, Palla and Singhu school toll tax borders.Traffic has been diverted from Mukarba and GTK Road.Commuters can choose other border routes, such as the Delhi-Gurgaon and Delhi-Faridabad stretches between Delhi and Haryana.Farmers have been protesting at different borders of the national Capital since November last year, against the three newly enacted farm laws - Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/farmers-protest-multiple-delhi-borders-remain-closed-for-traffic-101614136425134.html
24-02-2021||Patna||Nitish Kumar takes on opposition, presents Bihar turnaround story||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar on Tuesday countered the opposition’s narrative with point by point rebuttals and presented the state's growth story under his government amid frequent spats with the leader of opposition (LoP) Tejashwi Prasad Yadav in the Bihar Vidhan Sabha.At one point, when Kumar referred to his experience with the Atal Bihari Vajpayee government, Tejashwi intervened, asking him to narrate it, Kumar responded: “When I was at the Centre, you were in the lap. I have also taken you in my lap.”He also took on the Congress leaders for pleading for reopening of liquor shops in the state by showing them their party’s membership form to underline that their position was contrary to a clause of their own party’s membership criteria.“It (Congress membership form) says members will not touch intoxicants, but here they are acting to the contrary, though the decision to impose full prohibition in the state was taken following a unanimous decision of all the members,” Kumar said.While giving government’s reply to the debate on motion of thanks to the governor’s address to the joint session of both houses, Kumar spoke at length on his government’s achievements, including the way the state responded during Covid-19 pandemic to record highest testing per million and the lowest death rate, steep fall in the infant and maternal mortality rates, 86% immunisation, and plans for making a self-reliant Bihar. However, the Opposition staged a walkout in the midst of his reply.The CM said the government was working on an agreement with the Tata technical group for skilling the youth in the state in areas such as electric vehicles maintenance, advance welding, 3D printing etc. by setting up centres of excellence in the industrial training institutes (ITIs) and polytechnics in the state. “We have also been demanding permission from the Centre since 2007 for ethanol production and there was also a ₹210,000 crore proposal. However, the Centre denied it. Now the Centre has made a policy for it,” he added.Kumar said that the government took every incident of crime seriously, and pointed out that as per the national crime record bureau (NCRB), Bihar was ranked 25th in terms of number of cognizable offences, contrary to what the opposition tries to portray, while responding to Tejashwi’s attack on law and order. “It was 23rd earlier. In a society, wrong doers are always there, but the government has been able to establish the rule of law,” Kumar added.The CM said that the opposition parties needed to take note of the 10.5% growth rate achieved by the state in 2019-20 to realise how far it has come since 2004-05. “The budget size has increased from mere ₹23,885 crore to ₹218,000 crore since then, while the per capita income has increased from ₹7,954 to ₹50,765, resulting in marked improvement in the standard of living and growth in business activities,” Nitish Kumar said.Also Read: Amid price hike, fuel smuggling from Nepal to Bihar in full swingWhen Kumar referred to power supply to every household across the state, Tejashwi intervened, saying there was hardly any production of electricity in the state and the power rates were among the highest. Kumar pointed out that power consumption had reached 5932 mw and Bihar’s move to install pre-paid meters to address billing complaints had been lauded by the Centre. “We are also giving highly subsidized electricity for farming and have been demanding one nation, one power tariff, but tell me if there was electricity in villages before 2006,” he asked.Maintaining that there had been a phenomenal increase in agriculture production and productivity in comparison to 2004-05, Kumar said now the emphasis was on organic farming and climate-smart agriculture to adapt with the changes. “The government is already working as part of its 7 Resolves (Part-2) campaign to ensure water to every farm, while procurement of farm produce has touched record levels. Paddy procurement this year reached 35.59-lakh mt,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/nitish-kumar-takes-on-opposition-presents-bihar-turnaround-story-101614135273584.html
24-02-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s air quality poor, temperature higher than normal||Delhi’s air quality on Tuesday morning remained in the poor category, with the hourly average air quality index (AQI) recording 249.Central Pollution Control Board data showed that on Monday the overall AQI was 250, also in the poor category. India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast that the pollution levels are likely to remain in the poor zone in the next two days. Meanwhile, IMD has also forecast that the temperatures are expected to remain higher than normal, and hover around 31-32 degrees Celsius.Also Read | Delhi: Maximum temperature reaches 31.5 degrees as city sees warmest dayOn Tuesday, the maximum temperature was 31.5 degrees Celsius, while the minimum temperature was 10.7 degrees Celsius. Lodhi Road and Palam observatories had recorded a maximum temperature of 32.1 degrees Celsius and 30.2 degrees Celsius, the MeT department said.The weatherman said minimum and maximum temperatures are likely to hover around 12 degrees Celsius and 31 degrees Celsius on Wednesday.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-air-quality-poor-temperature-higher-than-normal-101614134924877.html
24-02-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand civil judge used vehicle of accused for family trips, suspended||Uttarakhand high court on Tuesday, suspended civil judge (senior division), Almora, Abhishek Kumar Srivastava with immediate effect for allegedly favouring an accused in a criminal case and for using private vehicles owned by the accused for family trips, according to a court notification."Serious complaint has been received against Abhishek Kumar Srivastava on which disciplinary proceedings are contemplated with regard to following allegations, (and) is put under suspension with immediate effect," said the notification signed by registrar general Dhananjay Chaturvedi."Officer and his family members have been using private vehicles belonging to accused Chandra Mohan Sethi, for travelling to the homes of his relatives in Delhi, Ghaziabad and Noida," the notification stated.It also said that a criminal case against Sethi was pending in the court of the civil judge/judicial magistrate Almora, presided over by the officer.Also Read: Black carbon aerosols on Himalayan glaciers could speed up melting: Scientists"The officer is favouring the accused Chandra Mohan Sethi and for favouring him, separated his case without there being any reason. The aforesaid act and conduct of Abhishek Kumar Srivastava casts serious doubt upon his integrity, amounts to grave misconduct and is in violation of Rule 3(1), 3(2) and Rule 30 of the Uttarakhand Government Servants' Conduct Rules, 2002. Said conduct is unbecoming of a judicial officer," said the notification, adding that during the period of suspension and until further order, the officer shall remain attached with the district judgeship's headquarters in Dehradun and shall not leave the station without obtaining prior permission of the high court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-civil-judge-used-vehicle-of-accused-for-family-trips-suspended-101614132542059.html
24-02-2021||Lucknow||Farmers from UP villages to fast, send messages to PM every day from March 1||The Uttar Pradesh Kisan Mazdoor Morcha on Tuesday said it will launch a village-level agitation across the state from March 1 seeking withdrawal of the Centre's three farm laws and guarantee to purchase at the minimum support price (MSP).VM Singh, leader of Rashtriya Kisan Mazdoor Sanghatan (RKMS) , which has joined 21 other farmer outfits to form the Uttar Pradesh Kisan Mazdoor Morcha (UPKMM) said: "This new movement will start from March 1, where five people from each village will observe fast every day and record messages to be sent to Prime Minister Narendra Modi every two minutes. If even 500 villages are covered in one district, then 5000 men will let the prime minister know through the website the voices of the farmers. This will be done to unite the villages."UPKMM was constituted with 22 farmer outfits on February 21 after coordinated meetings with about two dozen farmers 'organizations in Uttar Pradesh.Singh claimed that the RKMS had never disassociated with the farmers agitating against the three farm laws at the different borders of the national capital since November last year"We did not leave the movement. We were against the manner in which the protest turned violent. I had also said that we will come back in the form of a new movement and today after one month we have returned. I believe that if this movement reaches the people within the village, then the farmers will get benefitted," Singh said.At the Republic Day tractor rally, farmers breached barricades and clashed with police at several places in the national capital, after which the RKMS had announced that they were not going to be associated with the farmers' agitation.The RKMS leader further said that the village level agitation is also aimed at sending a message to those who claimed that the agitation is not farmer-driven but hijacked by vested interests."The ministers say that there are no farmers in the protest but when the farmers will send their message from their villages, then will understand that the protest is genuine and that the rights of the farmers should be guaranteed, Singh said.The RKMS leader further extended solidarity to those farmers who were continuing their protest at the borders of Delhi."We wish luck to those who are sitting at the Ghazipur, Singhu, and Tikri border. We are doing our work but we will be different in the form of agitation," Singh said.While speaking to ANI, Singh further said, "MSP is our main right and we should get the guaranteed purchase as per the MSP. If someone buys less than that, then it will be considered an offence."Farmers have been protesting at the different borders of the national capital since November last year, against the three newly enacted farm laws - Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/farmers-from-up-villages-to-fast-send-messages-to-pm-every-day-from-march-1-101614131208652.html
24-02-2021||Bangalore||‘Didn't know what was in bag’: Driver who transported explosives before blast||“I didn’t know what they had in the bag. I was sleeping in my room and they asked me to come with them for some work. Once we reached the forest area, I waited outside, and these men went in with the bag. Then there was a blast.”Seated in his pickup truck, with blood oozing from his legs, Mohammed Riyaz Ansari explained what transpired before the blast in Karnataka’s Chikkaballapur on Tuesday. Ansari’s pickup was used by the quarry employees to transport the explosives.“I was trying to open the door when the blast happened. There are injuries on my hands, and it is bleeding a lot from my legs,” he said showing injuries, in a video shot on a mobile phone soon after the incident.Six men were killed in a dynamite blast when they were allegedly trying to dispose of illegally procured explosives.An ambulance driver, who ferried the injured, said they received a call about the incident around 1.20 am. “We reached the location around 1.40 am. We were initially told it was an accident, but when we reached the location, we realised there was a blast and there were five people.”Villagers felt the vibrations from the explosion even a kilometre away. “I thought the roof of my house would fall on me and I ran out of the house,” said Venkatappa, a resident of Hirenagavalli, an area close to the location of the blast.D Sudhakar, who is the minister in charge of the district, said the explosives belonged to the quarry closed down on February 7 for not storing explosives properly and not having an engineer at the site. “…we suspect that fearing further inspections, the owners must have got some employees to move the explosives to a forested area in Gudibande, around 1km away from the quarry,” he said.“The bomb disposal team...said that even signals from mobile phones could have triggered the explosion. But they are investigating further,” Sudhakar said.Also Watch: Karnataka: 6 killed while trying to dispose of explosives in ChikkaballapurPolice have identified three owners of the quarry and legal action has begun.Prime Minister Narendra Modi condoled the deaths. “Pained by the loss of lives due to a mishap at Chikkaballapur in Karnataka. Condolences to the bereaved families. Praying that the injured recover quickly: PM,” he tweeted.This is the second such blast in Karnataka in the last month. On January 22, eight people were killed in a dynamite blast at a railway crusher site in Shivamogga.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/didnt-know-what-was-in-bag-driver-who-transported-explosives-before-blast-101614131369695.html
24-02-2021||Lucknow||Unnao deaths: Survivor records statement before magistrate||A 16-year-old girl who had survived an alleged attempt on her life at a village here and was found in an agriculture field along with two others recorded her statement before a magistrate on Tuesday, police said.Three girls--aged 16, 15 and 14-- were found unconscious in an agriculture field in Babuhara village of the Asoha police station area on Wednesday night. They had left home to collect fodder for cattle but did not return.On finding them there, the locals rushed them to a hospital where two of them were declared brought dead. The 16-year-old girl was later taken to a Kanpur hospital where she is undergoing treatment.Police have arrested two people in the case, accusing them of murder over a “one-sided” love affair.SP Anand Kulkarni said the girl’s statement was recorded on Tuesday morning.He said the girl in her statement said Vinay and his friend had come to the field on the day of the incident. At that time, she and the two other girls were collecting fodder for cattle.“Vinay offered some snacks, which the girls refused. On this, Vinay gave them water. After drinking it, they fell unconscious,"said the girl.Kulkarni said the girl in her statement said the accused did not indulge in sexual assault. According to police, the accused gave some pesticide mixed with water to the three girls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/unnao-deaths-survivor-records-statement-before-magistrate-101614130961030.html
24-02-2021||Lucknow||Cousins, 5 and 7, abducted in UP, one found dead||Two minor cousin sisters — aged five and seven years — were allegedly kidnapped by unidentified people and the younger one killed in Shahjahanpur district of western Uttar Pradesh on Monday, the police said on Tuesday.The older girl was also attacked and seriously injured. She has been hospitalised, the police said. The motive for the crime has not been determined.The police have lodged a first information report and started an investigation. They have detained over half-a-dozen suspects from the area and are questioning them.Shahjahanpur’s superintendent of police S Anand said: “The sisters, residents of Kant area of the district, were found in a field with serious injuries on their bodies. The younger girl was declared dead at hospital while the other one is admitted in intensive care. Her condition is stable.”Anand said the girls, students of a nearby madrasa, left their homes on Monday morning and went to attend their lessons. They left the madrasa at around 1 pm but did not return home. Their family members informed the police at around 6 pm.“A search team was formed by the police. Additional force from other police stations was also called in. The younger girl was found at around 8 pm in a field beside a road, at a distance of around a kilometre from their home. The elder girl was found three hours later at some distance from where the younger one was found,” said the SP.“The younger girl was found with blood oozing out of her mouth. Her head and neck were also injured. We are waiting for the post mortem report of the body,” he said“The elder girl also had injuries on her neck. It appears that someone tried to strangulate her. However, her condition is now stable and she is recovering in hospital,” the SP added.htc||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/cousins-5-and-7-abducted-in-up-one-found-dead-101614124337022.html
24-02-2021||Bhopal||School principal booked under anti-conversion law in MP: Police||The principal of a missionary school was booked under the Madhya Pradesh Freedom of Religion Ordinance 2020 on Tuesday on a complaint by a female teacher who accused her of harassment and trying to force her to convert her religion, the police said.Police registered a first action report invoking the law against Khajurao-based convent school principal Sister Bhagya. No arrest has been made so far, said Sandeep Khare,an inspector at the Khajuraho police station.“A schoolteacher, Ruby Singh, filed a complaint that she has been working in the school on a contractual basis for the past four years,” Khare said. “ She belongs to a lower middle-class family and school principal Sister Bhagya came to know about her poor financial condition. The principal started pressurising her for conversion and also used undignified words for her religion. The principal was luring her and promising to increase her salary and regularize her job if she converted.”“When she refused to change her faith, Bhagya stopped paying her salary to her. The principal sacked her from the job,” said Khare.The MP Catholic Church’s public relation officer Maria Stephen said the missionaries school was being targeted. “The teacher was sacked after receiving a complaint from parents and students. She was warned but didn’t improve her way of teaching.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/school-principal-booked-under-anti-conversion-law-in-mp-police-101614121668232.html
24-02-2021||Lucknow||Missing college student found with 60% burn injuries in UP||A 21-year-old woman was found with severe burn injuries in Nagaria area of Uttar Pradesh’s Shahjahanpur district, police officials said on Tuesday.According to officials, the woman went missing after her father dropped her at the Swami Shukdevanand College on Monday morning. She was later found near the Delhi-Lucknow national highway and rushed to a hospital in Lucknow where her condition is stated to be critical, officials said. The college is run by a trust of former union minister Chinmayanand, an accused in a 2018 rape case. “The girl is enrolled as a BA second year student at the college,” said Shahjahanpur SP S Anand.Her father waited outside her college but when she did not return, he started looking for her, the officials said. “Around 6pm, she was found in a semi-burnt state,” the official added.The woman has sustained 60% burn injuries, he said.“When asked, he said the girl has no recollection of the incident. We have requested the family members to encourage her to help us in the probe,” said the SP. An FIR against unidentified persons has been registered at the Tilhar police station.“The classmates of the girl are also being questioned,” the SP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/missing-college-student-found-with-60-burn-injuries-in-up-101614122493732.html
24-02-2021||Bangalore||SDPI instigated mob, triggered B’luru riots: NIA charge sheet||The Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) instigated the mob that triggered the violence in Bengaluru in the late hours of August 11, according to a charge sheet filed by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Tuesday.The 301-page charge sheet details how the leaders of SDPI, a political group formed in June 2009, planned to use a provocative post by the relative of a prominent politician to stoke communal riots in the KG Halli and DJ Halli neighbourhoods of Bengaluru.“The SDPI in Bengaluru was unhappy with the decisions of the Central government on certain matters i.e, repeal of Article 370, issue of Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) and National Register of Citizens (NRC), Supreme Court verdict on Babri Masjid case, Triple Talaq, etc. They were waiting for an opportunity to create communal disharmony in the country,” according to the charge-sheet.Three people died after a mob went on a rampage in reaction to a communally charged Facebook post by a relative of Pulakeshinagar Congress legislator, Akhanda Srinivas Murthy.The NIA charge-sheet states that Naveen, the relative of Murthy was entrapped into reacting to a derogatory post. The document says that the SDPI, which had been taking up civic and other issues,was also looking to exploit emotive religious issues such as the Bhoomi Poojan for the Ram temple in Ayodhya. and agitations against CAA/NRC.The charge-sheet states that Fairoz Pasha joined hands with Mohammed Shariff, Muzammil Pasha and other SDPI leaders in Bengaluru and “hatched a criminal conspiracy”. The NIA stated that the group decided to post derogatory messages insulting Hindu gods and the community through Fairoz’s Facebook account. They intentionally selected August 11, 2020, Krishna Janmashtami, to post the message, the NIA said.The NIA added that Fairoz posted video and audio clips of BJP minister Murugesh Nirani that was seen to hurt Hindu sentiments.He tagged Naveen, the relative of Srinivas Murthy. The post by Naveen triggered a violent reaction with a cartoon of Prophet Mohammed and a derogatory insinuation.“This charge-sheet is pre-planned and prejudiced. This is the same thing that happened in Delhi (the Delhi riots case) and this report is a copy-paste of the same report,” Afsar Kodlipet, a senior office bearer of the SDPI in Karnataka, said in a video message.“The person named as accused 1 (Fairoz) is not a SDPI member. We have not got a copy of the charge-sheet and when we get it, will study it,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/sdpi-instigated-mob-triggered-b-luru-riots-nia-charge-sheet-101614122159391.html
24-02-2021||Delhi||Lift the iron curtain at Delhi’s liquor vends||The window behind the grille at the government liquor shop in Tughlakabad extension is usually open by noon. But it comes to life after sundown.Large crowds gather outside the shop jostling for space. A few seconds are all that customers get to shout the name of a drink, pay cash, grab the bottle, and push themselves out of the crowd. There is no time to browse, or check if a particular brand is available in the 30 seconds that customers get before they are shoved aside.“Given the size of the crowd and the madness in the last few hours before the shop closes at 10pm, there is not much room for thinking,” said Shubham Choudhury, a tech executive who lives in Kalkaji.There are other problems. In these peak hours, it’s difficult to pay with a card as shopkeepers accept nothing but cash. Even in the less-crowded afternoon hours, one can ask about specific brands, but stocks are extremely limited, and imported brands are out of the question.“Often it even gets difficult to avail decent whiskeys and light beer,” said Choudhury.The 34-year-old now drives a few kilometres to a prominent private vendor in Greater Kailash – where he gets to choose from a wide range of different varieties of liquor, with salespersons to help with queries. Customers can pick what they want from the shelves, get it billed, and walk out.“That is the kind of experience liquor shops must offer across the city,” he said. The problem is that such shops are few, and only in a few select neighbourhoods.Also Read | Delhi: It’s time for liquor policy to come of ageChoudhury isn’t the only one complaining. Across Delhi, customers say buying liquor in the city is both cumbersome and painstaking -- comparing poorly to the experience in other metro cities that boast of stores where people can choose brands at leisure.In contrast, city residents say that the jostling in front of grilled shops, often with louts and drunks, increases the taboo around drinking, and makes buying of alcohol seem unsafe and feel unpleasant. Little wonder then that some people say they drive to Gurugram and Noida for a better retail experience.“For women, particularly, most government shops are no-go zones. They are very crowded and women do not feel safe,” said Akanksha Nagpal, manager at an audit firm based in Delhi.Arijit Sen, who works with a legal consultancy company, said the biggest concern is the lack of room to explore brands. “In the peak hours, one has to have a certain brand in mind. Then the shop owners often say no, and push another brand as an alternative. One has to quickly decide. Even if one goes in the lean hours, range of stock is a major issue,” he said.Delhi has roughly 720 liquor shops, of which 460 are government shops and 260 are private. Of the 260, around 160 are located inside shopping malls, government records said. All shops have to renew their licenses annually. In addition, roughly 1,043 restaurants, hotels and pubs serve liquor on their premises.Mumbai has 1,190 liquor shops and Bangalore has 1,794, said a Delhi government report prepared in January.But people with knowledge of developments say the lack of choice at liquor stores is more systemic, and involves the sale of unregistered brands – from which the government generates no revenue by way of excise or sales tax. In the Capital, for example, there are at least 30 brands of whisky and other hard liquor that are not sold anywhere outside the city.Moreover, neighbouring states of Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Punjab have higher density of liquor shops per population, ensuring ease of access and less crowding. The distribution of the shops is not even, creating demand-and-supply gaps that encourages illicit liquor, sale of non-registered brands and bootlegging.“Around 70 municipal wards in Delhi (out of 272), especially in the northwest peripheries and the rural belt in south, do not have liquor shops. They also lead to excessive crowds at liquor stores in other areas which definitely affect the customers’ buying experience,” said a senior official in the excise department who did not wish to be identified.Another pain point is the scarce availability of imported liquor. Imported liquor and a wide range of Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) can be found mostly in malls and some prominent private stores, but only a handful of government shops – for instance, those located in Connaught Place and Khan Market. “The range of stock for any shop – government or private – depends on the nature and scale of demand it witnesses. So, that is something more market-driven,” said the excise department official.To be sure, the city has taken major strides in modernising the liquor business in the past two decades.In 2003, a policy facilitated the entry of private enterprises. It forced the government into improving the quality of service in neighbourhood shops. In 2010, a new policy drafted for malls allowed liquor stores and departmental stores to have liquor sections – through licenses under L-10 and L-12 categories.“These are the kind of shops preferred by women, consumers of imported liquor, and people who like more choices… there have been some major game changers in the front of improving the liquor buying experience for people in the city,” said Bhub Singh, a member of the Delhi Alcobev Retailers Association, a group of 107 prominent retailers based in the city.In 2010, the government allowed department stores and large chain stores to stock beer, wine and light alcoholic drinks. By 2019, there were at least 125 such stores across the city stocking alcoholic beverages. “It was of immense help. People who look out for beer and wine could pick up liquor while doing their groceries or running errands,” said Ankita Singh, who works with an advertisement company.But two years ago, the government ordered the liquor counters shut, citing violation of license norms concerning maximum cap on carpet area. Officials said people had opened stores overnight to just sell liquor and applied for licences under the L-12 and L-12/F categories –which concerns departmental stores.The matter went to the Delhi high court which issued a stay order on December 24, 2019. In March 2020, the government did not invite applications for L-12 and L-12/F licences for 2020-21. This too went to the Delhi High court, where the government said that a new policy would be drafted to plug loopholes in the system. This time, the court dismissed the plea filed by a collective of departmental stores who could not renew their licenses.Pankaj Singh, a departmental store owner in east Delhi’s Patparganj, who used to have an L-12 license, said, “It would be great if the government opens liquor license applications again for departmental stores. However, the government should reconsider the condition regarding 2,000 square feet carpet area. It will end up making the policy favourable for only big players.”There are other problems too: a four-tier licence system for liquor stores, a complex maze of excise duty slabs that clubs roughly 80% of the IMFL in a single category, and a need for rationalisation of the registration process for foreign brands.The government says it is working on a solution. In September 2020, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia set up a three-member expert committee to draft a new excise policy. In January, recommendations were shared publicly and since received 14,000 responses from industry stakeholders and the general public which are currently being reviewed by a group of ministers, said the excise official quoted above.A Delhi government official said the city government intends to bring back liquor counters in departmental stores and reduce crowds with an equitable distribution of outlets.Under the proposed policy, departmental stores in the city that have a carpet area of more than 2,000 square feet will be able to apply for licenses to sell wine and beer. The proposed policy also says the shop should be functional for at least two years or be part of a chain that has existed for more than two years with an annual turnover of at least ₹1 crore for non-liquor items.“New licenses will be issued in a fashion that ensures more equitable distribution of shops across the city,” said the official.Until then, most consumers have to contend with that dreaded window grille.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/lift-the-iron-curtain-at-delhi-s-liquor-vends-101614116909366.html
24-02-2021||Delhi||AAP alleges scam in SDMC schools||The House meeting of the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) witnessed chaos on Tuesday with councillors of Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) shouting slogans against each other on Tuesday.AAP councillors alleged a “scholarship scam” by the civic body and demanded an investigation in the matter, apart from an explanation from the House on the issue.The move was immediately opposed by the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party .The AAP councillors then proceeded to enter the well of the House, displayed posters related to the alleged scam and raised slogans against the SDMC ruling authorities. To counter it, BJP councillors also raised anti-government slogans. The House was adjourned twice before being finally adjourned to the next date.Leader of opposition and AAP councillor Prem Kumar Chauhan alleged that there were irregularities in payment of scholarships to SC/ST students of SDMC schools between the financial year 2013-14 and 2018-19.“It is a scam worth at least ₹5.7 crore, where annual scholarship was not paid to SC/ST students between 2013-14 and 2018-19 despite the fact that the Delhi government released this amount every year. The money never reached students and it was pocketed by the civic officials,” Chauhan alleged.He also said that an enquiry in this connection is already going on by the anti-corruption branch, but there is a need to seek an explanation from the BJP-ruled civic body and fix responsibility.“We were demanding a discussion on the issue and an explanation from the mayor. But our demand was rejected so we expressed our displeasure. BJP leaders have been protecting corrupt officials because they themselves benefit. BJP councillors opposed our move and created ruckus because they never wanted a discussion on this,” Chauhan said.According to SDMC officials, SC/ST students are given ₹500 scholarship annually by the government. In municipal schools, it is disbursed by the civic body after the funds are released by the government.Chauhan also demanded that taking moral responsibility, the SDMC mayor should resign from the post.Leader of the House, Narendra Chawla refuted the claims of involvement of any councillor or political executive in the alleged scam.“The AAP is in the habit of levelling baseless allegations. When I asked them to submit proofs regarding their claims of a scam, they had none. They just display placards not proofs,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/aap-alleges-scam-insdmcschools-101614116605106.html
24-02-2021||Delhi||Rape convict on parole nabbed for ATM break-ins||A 34-year-old man convicted in the infamous 2010 Dhaula Kuan gang-rape case was arrested for 12 ATM break-in thefts that he had allegedly committed along with his associates in December and January, while being out on parole, police said on Tuesday.Shamshad alias Khutkan, a resident of Faridabad, was arrested on Monday from near the Gokalpuri Metro station when he arrived there to meet his associate. Shamshad allegedly fired at the police party during his attempt to flee. The shot missed the target and nobody was hurt. Police personnel then overpowered him and snatched away his firearm before he could fire again, the police said.During the interrogation, Shamshad disclosed that he is a life convict in the 2010 Dhaula Kuan gang-rape case.He was released on parole on April 20, 2020, as a part of the exercise to decongest jails in view of Covid-19. Parole was later extended due to the ongoing pandemic till February 20 (Saturday). However, Shamshad did not return to the jail on the proscribed date, said deputy commissioner of police (special cell) Pramod Singh Kushwah.Police said after being released on parole, Shamshad joined a Mewat-based interstate gang of robbers. He along with others of the gang allegedly committed 12 ATM break-ins in Delhi, between December 2020 and January 2021, and fled with cash amounting to ₹1.35 lakh.“The gang members used to spray black paint on CCTV cameras after entering the ATM booths. They used to open the ATMs with the help of a gas cutter and remove the cash cabins,” the officer said, adding that the remaining five suspects have also been identified.Shamshad was previously involved in around 16 criminal cases, including attempt to murder, abduction, rape, arms act and cattle smuggling, in Delhi and Haryana.In the 2010 gang-rape case, on the night of November 23, Shamdhad and his four associates abducted a 30-year-old BPO executive while she was walking home with a colleague around midnight, in Moti Bagh near Dhaula Kuan, after being dropped off by an office cab from their Gurugram office.The five men grabbed the women, threatened them with a countrymade pistol and tried to force them into their vehicle – a Tata 407 mini truck. They put the 30-year-old woman into their vehicle while her friend managed to escape after a brief struggle. The five men took turns to rape the woman in the moving vehicle before dumping her at an isolated stretch in outer Delhi’s Mangolpuri.The police had cracked the case in a week using some key clues provided by the survivor. Police had used the clues to identify the truck as well as the suspects.The first arrest in the case was made on December 2, when the police caught Shamshad and Usman from Haryana. The other three were caught between December 4 and 6. Police filed the charge sheet on February 2, 2011, and on October 20, 2014, all five accused were awarded life imprisonment by a Delhi court.It was after this incident that the Delhi Police ordered all call centres in Delhi-NCR to drop women employees home safely and to also provide them security while travelling at night. Police also instructed PCR vans to be visible on roads and one officer to remain outside every such vehicle at all times.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/rape-convict-on-parole-nabbed-for-atm-breakins-101614115636207.html
24-02-2021||Kolkata||CBI team questions TMC MP’s wife||Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) officers questioned Rujira Banerjee, wife of Trinamool Congress MP Abhishek Banerjee, in connection with a multi-crore coal smuggling case on Tuesday.On Tuesday, chief minister Mamata Banerjee, who happens to be the aunt of Abhishek Banerjee, visited his house.The CBI team, including two woman officers, reached the house moments after the CM left. According to CBI officials privy to the development, Rujira was questioned for around an hour by the CBI team and the entire proceedings were captured on video. The questioning took place a day after the central agency questioned Menaka Gambhir, Rujira’s sister, in connection with the same case.Also Read | BJP's Rakesh Singh, named by Pamela Goswami in drugs case, arrested in KolkataCBI officials haven’t ruled out the possibility of questioning the two sisters again. They said the statements of Rujira Banerjee and Menaka Gambhir were being matched. “The statements given by Rujira Banerjee and Menaka Gambhir would be matched and verified before further steps are taken,” an official said on condition of anonymity.CBI officials said that at least two bank accounts, one of a London-based bank and another of a Bangkok-based bank, had come under scanner; transactions worth huge amounts of money had been done using the accounts, they said.The CBI had on Sunday visited the residence of Abhishek Banerjee to serve notice to his wife for questioning. The agency had also summoned Banerjee’s sister-in-law for questioning in the case. On Monday, Rujira Banerjee responded to the CBI and sent a letter saying: “Though I am unaware of the reason for me being called for questioning on the subject matter of the investigation, you may visit my residence as per your convenience between 11 am and 3 pm tomorrow i.e 23 February 2021.”On Sunday evening, Abhishek Banerjee tweeted a photo of the notice the CBI left at his residence. “...if they think they can use these ploys to intimidate us, they are mistaken,” he wrote.CM Banerjee said she was not intimidated by anyone, adding that “a tiger cub is not scared of fighting cats and rats”.The episode triggered another round of sparring between the BJP and the TMC ahead of crucial assembly polls. “Bhaipo (nephew) will now land in jail. More clinching evidence would surface once the diary of Anup Majhi (prime accused of the coal smuggling case) comes out,” said Suvendu Adhikari, former TMC heavyweight who has joined the BJP. “...They are dragging family members now {into cases}. We are politicians and can fight..,” said Firhad Hakim, a state minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/cbi-team-questions-tmc-mp-s-wife-101614112914032.html
24-02-2021||Chandigarh||Amritsar train tragedy: Govt acts against 4 MC officials; too little, say victims’ kin||Even as the Punjab local bodies department has acted against four Amritsar Municipal Corporation officials (2 now retired) for lapse in the 2018 Dussehra train tragedy that claimed the lives of 61 persons, the victims’ families have expressed their dissatisfaction over the move terming it “too little, too late”. As per the department’s recent order, secretary Sushant Bhatia and superintendent Pushpinder Singh have been debarred from getting any promotion for two years, while pension of former superintendent Girish Kumar and then inspector Kewal Krishan will be deducted by 5% for the same period. There was also a fifth official (now retired), Kashmir Singh, who was chargesheeted along with the four, but he was acquitted as allegations against him were not proved, the order reads. Joint director (local government) Rakesh Kumar confirmed the development.Terming the action as “mere eyewash”, the victims’ families said they were already expecting “mild punishment” as the departmental inquiry was deliberately delayed. “It was because of the lackadaisical approach of the authorities concerned, including the MC officials, police and the railways, that 60 people were killed and more than 100 injured. The punishment should have been exemplary so that no official dares do such a blunder again. Cutting 5% from the pension and stopping promotions for two years is no punishment,” said Deepak Kumar, who lost his father Gurinder Kumar to the tragedy.He added, “Earlier, the railways had submitted a chargesheet against the event organisers without making any arrest. The accused against whom criminal action was recommended are roaming free.”During the departmental inquiry, the inquiry officer had assigned the probe to retired additional district and sessions judge Amarjit Singh Katari after finding replies of four of the chargsheeted officials unsatisfactory. Katari had submitted the inquiry report to the department in June last year, recommending action against the four.The department had given those indicted in the probe 15 days to present their side. Katari in the final report had stated there was ground for “big punishment”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/amritsar-train-tragedy-govt-acts-against-4-mc-officials-too-little-say-victims-kin-101614111162843.html
24-02-2021||Chandigarh||No need for leadership experiment in Punjab: Sunil Jakhar||Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar on Monday announced chief minister Amarinder Singh will lead the party in the 2022 assembly elections. Navneet Sharma spoke to Jakhar about the announcement and speculation that it has been made to pre-empt central leadership’s efforts to rehabilitate Navjot Singh Sidhu, who quit the state cabinet in July 2019 following differences with Singh. Edited excerpts: What prompted you to make the announcement?I have stated the obvious. It stands to reason. One of the major reasons for this clean sweep in civic polls is his leadership. ...people, especially of urban areas, have voted for peace, amity, and brotherhood in Punjab and his ability to have maintained that. They have put their faith [in him] also as he will maintain it in these troubled and testing times when the BJP [Bharatiya Janata Party] and SAD [Shiromani Akali Dal] are hell-bent on polarising the state. I have only articulated the people’s feelings.Also Read | Delhi to make negative RT-PCR test must for passengers from 5 statesDoes not the high command normally make such announcements?I know my limitations. I am here because the high command has appointed me to look after the party’s interests. They are the real authority. If I had taken the name of anybody else, then it would have amounted to crossing the line. Amarinder is here as the choice of the high command. I am only reiterating their choice. I realise that my decisions need to be endorsed by the central leadership. There are disgruntled elements trying to create an impression that Jakhar is challenging the high command whereas I am only articulating the choice of people. Punjab is leading the fight for saving not just the federal structure but democracy. In such a situation, one cannot think of having a novice. You need a seasoned leader. This is not the time to experiment. People want to be led with a firm hand by someone who understands nuances, especially the way Punjab is being treated by the Centre.Is not it a bit early as the elections are still a year away?We are in election mode. To think that we have romped home and sit back would be an illusion. I think we have to prepare. There are 40 seats where the Congress has not done well.Your move is being seen as an attempt to prevent the rehabilitation of former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu as deputy chief minister or as the state unit chief?He is most welcome to take any position that is given to him by the high command and Amarinder Singh. There is no attempt to stall anyone’s induction. There should be no ambiguity. The sooner the party organisation is put in place, the better it is. Now is the time to decide whatever position Sidhu or any other leader is to be given. Let us not squander away the advantage we have. It is a stepping stone. We need to build and capitalise on it.What role do you see for Sidhu in the elections?Amarinder, Sidhu, and the high command have to settle this. His popularity is there for everybody to see. Where he needs to be adjusted, (Congress’s Punjab in-charge Harish) Rawat has said he will accommodated in accordance with his capabilities. We should make the most of him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/no-need-for-leadership-experiment-in-punjab-sunil-jakhar-101614110681846.html
24-02-2021||Other||Shiv Sena minister named in suicide case puts up show of strength, irks Maharashtra govt||With Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) turning up heat on state forest minister from the Shiv Sena, Sanjay Rathod, in connection with the suicide of a 23-year- old Pune woman, the minister put up a show of strength in his stronghold in Vidarbha region. The senior Maharashtra minister, who represents Darwha assembly constituency in Yavatmal district, was unreachable for the past 15 days after the woman’s death. Nationalist Congress Party NCP chief Sharad Pawar on Tuesday met chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and pointed out that the episode is maligning the image of the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government. An irked Thackeray ordered the local administration to take action against those responsible for violating the Covid-19 norms after Rathod’s supporters gathered in large number at Washim as the minister made his first public appearance after his name was linked to the case. Thackeray has asked state chief secretary Sanjay Kumar to seek a report from the district collector and police superintendent on the matter. CM ruled out sacking Rathod and said he would wait for the outcome of the investigation being conducted by Pune police. Rathod is in controversy after a few audio tapes that went viral following the TikTok suicide. BJP alleged that Rathod was in a relationship with the woman and was responsible for her death. An influential leader of Banjara community that has strong presence in several parts of Vidarbha, Rathod made his public appearance at Pohradevi temple in an important place of worship for the Banjara community in Washim district. Hundreds of his followers, almost all from Banjara community, gathered there from Yavatmal, Washim, Nanded, Jalna and other districts of the state, defying the Covid-19 norms in the presence of a huge police bandobast. They resorted to sloganeering. He was flanked by his wife Sheetal, giving a clear message that his family is supportive of him amid the controversy. Rathod told the media that he was not guilty and truth would come out in the investigation. Talking to media persons he said that there was an attempt to finish his political career. “All allegations against me in the case were baseless. CM has ordered an inquiry into the matter. It should be thoroughly investigated so that the truth comes out. My family and community are with me,” he said. Tuesday’s huge gathering at the temple was seen as a show of strength, and the minister wants to signal that he is a strong leader of the Banjara community and if CM tries to drop him from the cabinet, it will affect the Sena in the coming days. The meeting between Thackeray and Pawar took place after Rathod’s show of strength. According to an NCP minister, Pawar reached Varsha on Tuesday around 7pm and both the leaders said to have discussed the issue in detail. Pawar told CM that Rathod should not have organised the “show of strength” as it will not go down well among the citizens at large. Pawar told Thackeray that there must be some action in the matter, the NCP minister said. “CM has taken serious note of reports of overcrowding at Pohradevi in Washim. If social distancing rules are not followed, then the administration should take action against,” stated a release issued by CM’s office. Political analyst Hemant Desai said “Rathod could get axed. Staging a show of strength when he is under cloud in a serious case would not go down well with people. Thackeray may do well by sacking him.” Opposition parties, particularly BJP, strongly criticised MVA government and especially the Shiv Sena, for not taking any action against the minister. The opposition demanded an inquiry against the minister and his removal from the cabinet. BJP leaders Chitra Wagh and Pravin Darekar said that the minister was putting pressure on the state by organising such a show of strength. “CM should not be a victim to such tricks,” they said. BJP has demanded for a probe by Central Bureau of Investigation for the “fair probe”. In a letter to Thackeray, Maharashtra BJP’s vice-president Prasad Lad said, “After Rathod resorted to the show of strength on Tuesday, the investigation by state police is unlikely to be without any prejudice. The entire case needs to the probe by CBI.” Another BJP leader, Atul Bhatkhalkar, said, “Unless the minister is arrested by lodging a case against him, there would be no fair probe.”The woman was died by suicide on February 8. The Maharashtra Police reported it as an accidental death case and dismissed any foul play. However, many audio clips allegedly linked to her death, moreover, alluding to the involvement of the state minister, went viral on social media. In one of the clips, one person is heard making suggestions to suppress the case. BJP has alleged that it was Rathod. A four-time MLA, Rathod is an influential Sena leader from Vidarbha. He is also very popular among the Banjara community, which has a sizable population in west Vidarbha region. Rathod was appointed as minister of forest in Thackeray’s cabinet in 2019. He is also the guardian minister for Yavatmal district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/shiv-sena-minister-named-in-suicide-case-puts-up-show-of-strength-irks-maharashtra-govt-101614110503246.html
24-02-2021||Chandigarh||Jakhar’s ‘Captain for 2022’ triggers speculation over Sidhu’s rehabilitation||Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar’s announcement on Monday that chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh will lead the party in next year’s assembly elections has triggered speculation that it was made to prevent efforts to rehabilitate Navjot Singh Sidhu. Sidhu quit the state Cabinet in July 2019 following differences with Singh.Jakhar’s announcement came four days after he launched the “Captain for 2022” campaign as the Congress swept the civic polls in the state amid anger in Punjab over the three central farm laws passed in September. The Congress’s central leadership generally makes such announcements.The declaration came amid the talk of attempts to appoint Sidhu as the state unit president or re-induct him into the Cabinet as the deputy chief minister. Congress’s Punjab in-charge Harish Rawat, who has praised Sidhu’s crowd-pulling ability and usefulness for the party, has been dropping hints about an “important role” for him, particularly in the state unit.Also Read | Punjab: Out of 4,000 schoolteachers tested, 13 found positive for Covid-19Sidhu, who is known to be close to top Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi, appears to be keen on heading the state unit ahead of the assembly polls. People aware of the matter said Singh has not been amenable to having Sidhu as the state Congress chief or the deputy chief minister.“There have been efforts by the central leadership for quite some time to accommodate Sidhu, who also wants a position that gives an impression in the state party that he is next in line in the party’s succession plan, but there may be issues as he joined the party just four years ago. The chief minister has made it known that there are many other capable party leaders,” said a Congress leader on condition of anonymity.The relations between the two leaders have been frosty since Sidhu joined the party. Rawat has been trying to bring about a rapprochement and the two met over lunch over two months ago to break the ice due to his efforts.Rawat said they have been working on it and things have become better. “But we have to take everyone on board,” he said, expressing hope of a positive development next month.Sidhu and Singh were immediately unavailable for comments.Ashutosh Kumar, a political science professor at Chandigarh’s Panjab University, said Singh is a strong leader and Jakhar’s move could not have been made without an understanding. “It is an assertion of Amarinder’s authority after the civic poll results to check an ambitious Sidhu.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/the-politics-behind-capt-for-2022-gambit-101614110442912.html
24-02-2021||Other||Ludhiana edu dept officials don’t practise what they preach, flout mask norms||Employees of the district education department (elementary), who should lead by example in following the Covid-19 safety protocols, seem to be themselves letting their guard down amid surging cases. The department officials, who had last week directed all school heads and block primary education officers to ensure that mask norms are strictly followed in all schools, are themselves flouting the norms. A visit to the education department, situated on the second floor of the deputy commissioner’s (DC) office, revealed that none of the employees were wearing masks during office hours. The violators included staff members of all branches-- administrative, accounts, general, mid-day meal and Samagra Shiksha Abhiyan office. When asked, the employees said that it was difficult for them to wear masks for eight hours at a stretch as their shift starts at 9am and ends at 5pm. An employee, requesting anonymity, said, “We are maintaining social distancing and take care to be seated away from each other. We do wear masks when we move out of our branch.”District education officer, elementary, Rajinder Kaur, said, “I will direct all employees of both offices to follow the Covid-19 norms and if anyone is found violating the safety protocols, strict action will be taken against the employee. Wearing a mask and maintaining social distancing are important to keep the virus from spreading. Negligence on the part of staff members will not be tolerated.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-edu-dept-officials-don-t-practise-what-they-preach-flout-mask-norms-101614110025137.html
24-02-2021||Chandigarh||Khanna-based convenience store worker shot dead by robbers in US||LUDHIANAA resident of Chukohi village near Khanna, Gurpreet Singh, 31, was shot dead by robbers who barged into a convenience store in America’s Sacramento, South Land Park area, on Monday. Gurpreet was working as a clerk at the store. Homicide detectives are looking for witnesses of the incident, according to media reports. A release from the Sacramento police department said a customer arrived at the convenience store and found Gurpreet with an apparent life-threatening injury. He was taken to a hospital where doctors pronounced him dead.Initial investigation revealed that Gurpreet suffered at least one life-threatening injury during a possible robbery, according to the news release. Meanwhile, a pall of gloom descended on Chukohi village in Khanna. The only child of his parents, gurpreet was married six years ago. He is survived by his wife and five-year-old daughter. Shattered by the incident, his wife Sukhpreet Kaur said he was talking her over phone when the incident took place. There was an argument going on when Gurpreet hung up the phone, she said. She called again, but no one answered. She then called one of her acquaintances to ask for Gurpreet’s well-being. After four-five hours, the family was informed the Gurpreet was killed.Village sarpanch Gurarshan Singh said Gurpreet went to America on a work permit two year ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/khannabased-convenience-store-worker-shot-dead-by-robbers-in-us-101614110023933.html
24-02-2021||Other||Covid care centres reactivated in all wards in Mumbai||Following the recent spike in the number of recorded Covid-19 cases, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has decided that Tuesday onwards, one Covid care centre-1 (CCC-1) will be kept open in each ward to isolate patients with mild symptoms. As of February 21, Mumbai had 7,276 active cases of Covid-19, of which 4,851 were asymptomatic and 2,149 were symptomatic. “Though active cases have increased in the city, almost 80% of the symptomatic patients are mildly or moderately infected who can take treatment at home only. But if anyone wants to remain isolated from family members, we would keep them in CCC-1. So, for a time being, we are keeping 24 CCC-1s open,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC. BMC has 336 CCC-1 facilities which have a total bed capacity of 46,712. On February 21, 400 of these were occupied by mildly symptomatic patients. “I am getting quite a few patients but as most of them are mildly symptomatic, I am suggesting they get treatment at home,” said epidemiologist Dr Lancelot Pinto. According to BMC, of the 11,205 beds in hospitals dedicated to Covid treatment, only 3,329 beds were occupied on February 21. “We have been instructed to test all symptomatic patients coming to our OPD [outpatient department] or emergency ward. But so far, we haven’t seen any sudden severity of cases,” said Dr Gautam Bhansali, consultant physician, Bombay Hospital. City doctors said no one should delay treatment as that could aggravate the infection. “Patients should be vigilant and report symptoms such as cough, chest congestion, cold and breathlessness on an immediate basis. This will help the expert to determine the underlying cause and suggest appropriate treatment. Ignoring symptoms can land patients in trouble. Also, do not self-medicate. Only take medication prescribed by the doctor,” said Dr Rajratan Sadawarte, chest physician at Kohinoor Hospital. “There are no shortages of essential medicines like Remdesivir and oxygen in the state. As we have already dealt with the peak of the pandemic, we have learnt tactics which will be useful now,” said DR Gahane, joint commissioner of Food and Drugs Administration (FDA), Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-care-centres-reactivated-in-all-wards-in-mumbai-101614110022634.html
24-02-2021||Other||Class 10, 12 exams to be held offline: Maharashtra board||Dismissing rumours about whether Class 10 and 12 board exams will be conducted online, the Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE) said it will hold the exams in offline mode. The board’s chairperson Dinkar Patil said that students and parents should not believe in rumours that are doing the rounds on social media. “We are currently making all the necessary arrangements for conducting exams as usual, that is in the offline format. Considering the high number of students and the different places from where they write exams, online exams do not seem feasible,” said Patil. He added that the exact guidelines with respect to the exams will be declared at a later date. “There are two months to the exams and we will keep a tab on the Covid-19 situation in the state. Any changes or modifications in the existing format will have to be thought of only if needed later,” said Patil. With schools in Mumbai remaining closed, parents and teachers, over the past few days, have been requesting the state education department to give 50% weightage to internal assessments for Class 10 and 12 exams. Several parents have also requested for online exams. Around 1.5 million students appear for the HSC (Class 12) exam, while over 1.7 million students write their SSC exams (Class 10) from the state every year. While the board conducts these exams in February and March every year, this year they have been pushed for later months owing to the Covid-19 outbreak and the resultant lockdown. While HSC exams will be held between April 23 and May 21, SSC exams will be conducted between April 29 and May 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/class-10-12-exams-to-be-held-offline-maharashtra-board-101614109783775.html
24-02-2021||Other||Maharashtra power firm suspends clerk after teacher gets ₹80-crore power bill||Palghar Pratibha Naik, a commerce professor of a Nallasopara college was shocked to know that she had received power bill of ₹80 crore for consuming 107,785075 units. She then approached the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL), which admitted the error and suspended a clerk over the issue.“At first, MSEDCL authorities asked me to pay the ₹80-crore bill and said they’ll look into the issue. But I refused and demanded justice. I asked MSEDCL to conduct a meter test and check the reading. I was however, scared that MSEDCL would disconnect my power supply,” said Naik.Vijay Sinh Dudhbhate, public relations officer, MSEDCL (Kalyan), said there was a technical error in the case. “We had given the contract to private agencies to take readings of the meters. The agencies then submit the readings to us for final billing. The consumer has actually consumed only 10,7784.75 units and a clerk had negligently entered 107,785,075 units, thus generating a bill of ₹80-crore,” said Dudhbhate.The corrected bill is ₹86,890, said Dudhbhate. After investigation, we have suspended the clerk with immediate effect and issued show-cause notices to the officials concerned. We’ll also file a complaint with Nallasopara police station against the private agency who has been given the tender to conduct the readings each month. The consumer has agreed to pay the corrected bill and we sincerely apologise for the error,” said Dudhbhate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/maharashtra-power-firm-suspends-clerk-after-teacher-gets-80-crore-power-bill-101614109782480.html
24-02-2021||Other||Decks cleared for shifting dairy units out of Ludhiana city limits||Principal secretary of the department of local government, AK Sinha, visited the city on Tuesday and held a meeting with municipal corporation officials to discuss the modalities of shifting polluting dairy units out of the city limits. After a two-hour long meeting with municipal commissioner Pradeep Kumar Sabharwal, mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu, joint commissioners Swati Tiwana, Kulpreet Singh and other MC officials, Sinha visited Gorsian Kadar Baksh village, the proposed site for the modern dairy complex. A high-powered committee formed for shifting the dairy units out of the city limits had proposed the name of Gorsian Kadar Baksh village for setting up a dairy complex. The committee in December last year took the decision of shifting the dairies to Gorsian Kadar Baksh village and a report in this regard was sent to the principal secretary of department of local government, Punjab. During his visit, Sinha spoke to the villagers and met the sarpanch. Later, the officials also met district development and panchayat officer (DDPO) to discuss the modalities of transferring the land. As per information, there are over 400 dairy units in Haibowal dairy complex and around 130 in Tajpur road dairy complex. The administration has been contemplating shifting of these dairy units as their owners dump dairy waste and cow dung in the Buddha Nullah. Earlier, the state government had also planned to establish effluent treatment plants (ETP) to deal with the waste generated under the ₹650-crore project sanctioned by the state government. But the move was shelved and it was decided to shift the dairy units outside the city limits. On the other hand, Joginder Malhotra, general secretary of Tajpur road dairy owners’ association, demanded that arrangements to deal with dairy waste and cow dung should be made in these complexes. The plots should also be made available at reasonable prices, he stressed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/decks-cleared-for-shifting-dairy-units-out-of-ludhiana-city-limits-101614109602500.html
24-02-2021||Other||Driver dead as 2 trucks catch fire after collision in Ludhiana||A driver was charred to death after two trucks caught fire following a head-on collision on Raikot Road in Jagraon on Monday night. As per eyewitnesses, the collision took place as the trucks were trying to avoid hitting a car in front of them.The victim was identified as Manak Singh, 35, of Dharampura village of Mansa. Eyewitnesses said the victim remained stuck in the truck after fire broke out. It took the firefighters over an hour-and-a-half to douse the flames. The driver of the other truck, however, managed to flee the spot after the mishap.Sadar station house officer (SHO), sub-inspector (SI) Parwinder Singh said that one of the trucks, loaded with bricks, was coming from Jalandhar side while the other truck, filled with sand, was coming from Jagraon side. The trucks collided on Raikot road and immediately caught flames. Police, with the help of the fire brigade and locals, doused the flames and rescued the driver but he was declared brought dead at the hospital. Inquest proceedings under Section 174 of CrPC were initiated on the statement of Gurdeep Kaur, wife of the victim, said the SHO.He added that the cops are trying to trace the driver of the other truck to know his version of events. Traffic affected on stretchMeanwhile, traffic on the stretch remained affected till Tuesday morning till the cops removed both trucks, which were completed gutted.Some locals said that immediately after the mishap, they had tried to sound the fire brigade of Jagraon municipal council but the number was unreachable. They had to physically rush to the fire brigade office to inform the firemen. They further alleged that upon enquiry, they came to know that the fire brigade’s number was disconnected due to non-payment of bills. Sanjay Bansal, executive officer of Jagraon municipal corporation, said there was some technical problem in the phone on Monday night. On Tuesday, the problem was rectified, he added. He also refuted claims that the phone was disconnected due to non payment of bills.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/driver-dead-as-2-trucks-catch-fire-after-collision-in-ludhiana-101614109422460.html
24-02-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra education department violating norms for promotion of faculty: UGC||Noting that the state higher education department was violating norms set by the University Grants Commission (UGC) for promotion of teachers, the apex body has sought the state’s response to complaints of irregularity in promotions through the Career Advancement System (CAS). In a letter to the director, higher education, issued on Sunday, the UGC said promotion and recruitment of teachers are governed by its regulations and are mandatory in nature. “All universities are advised to strictly comply with them and cannot be overlooked at any stage in any circumstances,” said the letter. While Dhanraj Mane, director, higher education, Maharashtra, was unavailable for comment, OP Gupta, principal secretary, higher and technical education department, refused to comment as he had not received the letter from the UGC. The UGC’s action is in response to a complaint received from the National Forum for Quality Education (NFQE)—a teachers’ association on the matter. In July last year, the NFQE along with the Prahar Vidhyarthi Sanghtna and All India NET and SET Teachers Organisation (AI-NASTO) had written to the UGC alleging the state higher education directorate was not promoting NET/ SET teachers despite competing tenure and being eligible for CAS. The teachers’ groups had alleged biased treatment and arbitrary promotion of faculty members that violate the guidelines set by the UGC, the central body governing all universities and colleges in the country. The UGC’s Minimum Qualifications for Appointment of Teachers and Other Academic Staff in Universities and Colleges and Measures for Maintenance of Standards in Higher Education Guidelines, 2018, makes provisions for recruitment and promotion of faculty under CAS. “Central assistance on account of the seventh pay commission is around ₹1,200 crore. The state may forfeit such huge financial assistance because of such contemptuous act of concern officials in promotion of faculty members in colleges and universities,” said Kushal Mude, convenor of AI-NASTO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-education-department-violating-norms-for-promotion-of-faculty-ugc-101614109362392.html
24-02-2021||Other||Work out two shifts for Mantralaya staffers: Maharashtra CM||With nearly 75 state secretariat employees testing positive for Covid-19 in the past two days, chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday directed the chief secretary to work out two shifts for Mantralaya staffers and officials. He also directed officials to work out how many departments can be given work-from-home facilities to reduce the number of employees visiting Mantralaya. “Let us work out a new way of working, with which we’ll be able to work in full capacity and the threat of coronavirus will also be less. All the Mantralaya unions must work together and see how two shifts can be made to carry out daily business,” he said in the meeting, as per a note from his office. The order from CM comes three days after he requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to look at formulating a policy for staggered working hours during the 6th Governing Council of Niti Aayog. During a meeting with representatives of Maharashtra State Gazetted Officers Federation and other Mantralaya unions held at his official residence Varsha, CM said that Mantralaya employees and officials must be treated as frontline workers and should be given priority in getting vaccinated. “Looking at the rising Covid-19 cases, all Mantralaya employees and officials must be treated as frontline workers and given priority in vaccination,” Thackeray further said. He also said that the temperature of all persons visiting Mantralaya should be checked and arrangements must be made for conducting antigen tests of those with symptoms. “There should be a permanent facility to conduct antigen tests. People who have come in contact or are infected will not be able to enter the premises,” the statement from his office added. GD Kulthe, chief advisor of the Maharashtra State Gazetted Officers Federation, welcomed CM’s decisions. “Having two shifts is largely possible and can be done in at least some of the departments. Such steps have to be taken looking at the situation. In the past two days, 75 employees have tested positive. We can have shifts from 8am to 2pm and 2pm to 7pm. We are deliberating on how it would be done,” Kulthe said. Vishnu Patil of the state government employees’ union, who was present in the meeting, also backed the idea. The state is also deliberating on limiting the number of visitors in Mantralaya. The number of visitors has increased in the last few months, Patil said, adding “We have demanded that visitors should be stopped for some time now.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/work-out-two-shifts-for-mantralaya-staffers-maharashtra-cm-101614109302533.html
24-02-2021||Other||With 81 cases, Ludhiana sees highest single-day spike in 70 days||With 81 fresh cases, Ludhiana recorded its biggest single-day spike in 70 days on Tuesday even as two more persons lost their life to the virus. The last such spike was on December 13 when 89 cases were recorded in a day.Meanwhile, the infections emerging from schools continued to remain a worry with 12 students and seven teachers testing positive. Two cops and two healthcare workers –both nurses at Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) -- have also been found infected. Both the nurses had received the first dose of Covid vaccine and were awaiting the second jab. The district now has 442 active cases while the case tally stands at 26,782. So far, 1,023 persons have succumbed to virus in the district while 25,314 have recovered from it. Those who succumbed to the virus in the last 24 hours, include a 57-year- old man from Dhandra road and a 57-year-old man from Bajurg village.Vaccination update A total of 750 people received Covid-19 vaccine jabs on Tuesday. These included, 362 health workers, who got the second dose, and 298 frontline workers and 90 health staff who got the first dose. Kotmangal school still awaits DEO’s permission to close At Government High School, Kotmangal Singh, where the number of infections has gone up to four with one more teaching testing positive on Tuesday, authorities are still awaiting permission from the district education department (secondary) to close the school.Sources said that the infected teacher had been on examination duty on Tuesday and was actively involved in the distribution of question papers and collection of answer sheets. The teacher was also coordinating with the health department team that took samples of 170 students for Covid testing on Tuesday. School authorities said the education department is putting the lives of students and staff at risk by not allowing them to shut the school. District education officer (secondary) Harjit Singh said, “School authorities have been asked to follow the guidelines issued by the health department and infected teachers have been asked to isolate themselves and stay at home.” The other schools where teachers were found infected were Government School, Jandali Khurd, Government High School, Kotmangal Singh, Punjab Public School, Samrala, GHG Khalsa School, Amhedgarh, and Government Senior Secondary School, Chaunta. A student was also found infected at GMT College, Kitchlu Nagar. Cops distribute masks, urge people to follow guidelinesIn view of the surge in Covid cases, the Ludhiana police on Tuesday resumed their drive to encourage people to wear masks. Checkpoints were set up near main market in Model Town and Atam Nagar where cops were seen stopping commuters without masks and providing them one. Sub-inspector Avneet Kaur, additional SHO of Model Town police station, said the commuters were sensitised about the Covid guidelines and provided masks free of cost.Cops on duty said they will soon start issuing challans to those found without masks. Meanwhile, deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma and police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal also urged the residents to adhere to Covid precautions, including wearing of masks, social distancing and washing hands frequently, to contain the spread of the virus. In a meeting with the officials from various departments at Bachat Bhawan, they asked officials to ensure strict enforcement of norms, especially the restrictions of gatherings, in view of the surge in the number of cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/with-81-cases-ludhiana-sees-highest-single-day-spike-in-70-days-101614109242359.html
24-02-2021||Mumbai||School fee hike: Maharashtra education dept to form divisional fee panels this week||After receiving several complaints from parents about fee-related issues in private schools in the state, the education department has decided to constitute the divisional fee regulatory committees this week. A set of parents from across the state met state education minister Varsha Gaikwad on Monday and the minister assured them the government shall take strict action against schools which are found violating fee related norms. “We will act against schools wherein we have received complaints with respect to violation of rules. Similarly, as mentioned before, a committee is being formed to suggest changes and revisions in the state’s fee regulation act,” said Gaikwad in a statement issued on late Monday evening. The minister also promised parents that fee regulatory committees will be formed at the district and the state level to address complaints with respect to fees more effectively. The committees have been inactive since 2018 after the previous ones were dissolved.On February 18, HT had published a detailed analysis underlining the need to strengthen the state’s fee regulation act. Parents said they expected some concrete decisions from the meeting, but were majorly disappointed. “All we got were promises which have been given many times in the past too,” said Anubha Sahai, president of the Indiawide Parents Association. In 2018, the then BJP-led state government brought about an amendment in the Maharashtra Educational Institutions (Regulation of Fee) Act, 2011. The amendment allowed schools to hike fees by upto 15% once every two years. It also allowed schools to declare fees for the next 5-10 years when a child gets admission in Class 1, thus undermining the role of parents and the Parent Teacher Association (PTA) in fee related decisions. The act was called out for its pro-privatisation and pro-management stance and its passage was followed by protests from parents across the state. While the resistance slowly faded away as the government turned a blind eye, the concerns raised then are now becoming major hurdles in addressing fee related disputes in schools.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/school-fee-hike-maharashtra-education-dept-to-form-divisional-fee-panels-this-week-101614109062444.html
24-02-2021||Mumbai||Won’t allow sale of Patanjali’s Coronil without proper certification: Maharashtra min||Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh on Tuesday said that the state will not allow the sale of Coronil – the controversial drug by Patanjali Ayurveda to combat the Covid-19 infection – without proper certification from competent authorities. The statement from the minister came a day after the World Health Organization (WHO) clarified that it has not certified any traditional medicine for the treatment of Covid-19.Patanjali launched the product on February 19 in the presence of Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan and Union road transport minister Nitin Gadkari. On Monday, the Indian Medical Association (IMA) expressed shock and dismay at what it called is a “blatant lie of WHO certification” for Patanjali’s Coronil tablet. The global health body had earlier tweeted that it had not given any certificate to Coronil. “WHO has not reviewed or certified the effectiveness of any traditional medicine for the treatment COVID-19,” the global health body said on February 19.Deshmukh, in a series of tweets on Tuesday, said that IMA has questioned the drug trials for Coronil, and WHO has refuted claims that it has certified it. He added that launching such drugs hurriedly and the endorsement by two Union ministers is “deplorable”.“The IMA has questioned the said ‘clinical trials’ of #Coronil & WHO refuted the false claims made by #Patanjali Ayurveda for giving any certificate regarding its effectiveness for #Covid19 treatment. Launching such a drug hurriedly and being endorsed by two senior Central Union Ministers is highly deplorable. Selling of #Coronil without proper certification from competent health organizations like #WHO, #IMA and others will not be allowed in Maharashtra,” Deshmukh tweeted.Meanwhile, Patanjali Ayurveda claimed that it has the proper certification from the relevant authorities to sell and export the product to 158 countries across the world. SK Tijarawala, spokesperson of Patanjali Ayurveda, said, “Coronil has received the Certificate of Pharmaceutical Product (CoPP) from the Ayush section of Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation as per the WHO certification scheme. This empowers us to sell the product across 158 countries. The public is under the misconception that WHO has not certified it, but WHO never certifies any product. It sets a protocol for clinical control trials on modern medical parameters. Once that is cleared Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) and Ayush Ministry gives its certificate, and we have those certificates. If the minister does not have this knowledge, we can give him proper details,” said Tijarawala. He claimed that Coronil is “declared to treat, prevent and deal with the effects of long-term corona”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/wont-allow-sale-of-patanjali-s-coronil-without-proper-certification-maharashtra-min-101614108822379.html
24-02-2021||Other||Another lockdown in Maharashtra will cripple our businesses: Hoteliers||Hoteliers have warned the Maharashtra government that any new lockdown owing to the surge in the Covid-19 virus will sound a death knell for their sector. They pointed out that they are already facing losses as they are currently operating with 50% capacity, and any new restrictions will cripple their business considerably.Pradeep Shetty, senior vice-president, Hotels and Restaurants Association Western India (HRAWI) said, “Amravati city has already been shut down, while at Parbhani they have sealed places. At many places across Maharashtra, hotels are asked to shut down by 5pm, while at some others, the closing time is 11pm. These steps will only cripple our businesses, and we will be forced to shut down permanently.”Kamlesh Barot, director of VIE Hospitality, which runs hotels such as Revival, said that the surge in the cases has come at the wrong time. “We are seeing a drop in the number of customers from the past four days. If the lockdown is announced, it will result in mass exodus of the labour force,” said Barot.There are approximately 400,000 hotels and restaurants in Maharashtra. The state allowed them to reopen from October 5, after around seven months. However, they were allowed to operate after following various restrictions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/another-lockdown-in-maharashtra-will-cripple-our-businesses-hoteliers-101614108702345.html
24-02-2021||Mumbai||MMRDA announces ₹12,969.35-crore budget for Mumbai infra works||The Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA), in a meeting chaired by state urban development minister Eknath Shinde on Tuesday, approved a ₹12,969.35-crore budget, allocating a significant part for the Metro network in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR). Also, ₹2,900.35 crore has been allocated for the Mumbai Trans-Harbour Link (MTHL) that will connect Mumbai with the mainland through a sea link between Sewree and Nhava in Raigad. This year, the authority, which is implementing the 337-km Metro network, has allocated ₹700.65 crore for Metro-2A (Dahisar-DN Nagar) and ₹999.45 crore for Metro-7 (Dahisar E-Andheri E). Both the corridors are expected to be operational this year. A budgetary allocation of ₹4,571.25 crore has been made for the rest of the Metro projects. It has also allocated ₹250 crore for Metro-3 (Colaba-Bandra-Seepz), a 33.5-km underground corridor being executed by the Mumbai Metro Rail Corporation. Apart from this, ₹329.30 crore has been allocated for the proposed Metro Bhavan at Aarey and staff quarters. The MMRDA has allocated ₹2,900.35 crore for the 22-km MTHL, expected to be operational by mid-2023. The authority has also allocated ₹100 crore for the proposed Swargiya Balasaheb Thackeray grand memorial and ₹260 crore for the Babasaheb Ambedkar memorial proposed at Indu Mills in Dadar. The budget amount is less than 2020-21 at ₹15,819 crore and 2019-20 ( ₹16,909 crore). The MMRDA officials said while the budgets for the last two years were higher, the revised estimates were much lower. For instance, the revised estimate for 2019-20 was ₹10,088.31 crore and for 2020-21 was ₹9,851.92 crore. “The February-March is the expected expenditure, however, the figures are revised periodically as per the actual expenditure,” said BG Pawar, joint metropolitan commissioner, MMRDA. The authority has also revived a plan to construct a pedestrian bridge from City Park in Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC) to the Maharashtra Nature Park (MNP), for which it has allocated ₹77 crore. It has also allocated ₹120.20 crore for the Mumbai Monorail and ₹200 crore for the refurbishment of both, the Western Express Highway and Eastern Express Highway. It has allocated ₹60 crore for the Chheda Nagar improvement project. Another ₹60 crore has been allocated for the Kalanagar junction improvement project. While chief minister Uddhav Thackeray inaugurated the south-bound arm of the flyover, 80% of works have been completed on the rest of the project. The MMRDA has also allocated ₹405 crore for the Mumbai Urban Transport Project (MUTP), a multi-phase plan to build new lines, expand the existing ones, replace aging trains and rebuild busy stations and ₹776.85 crore for the Mumbai Urban Infrastructure project (MUIP), that include road improvement projects.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mmrda-announces-12-969-35-crore-budget-for-mumbai-infra-works-101614108582636.html
24-02-2021||Other||Bandra, Chembur, Khar see highest growth rate in Covid-19 cases in Mumbai||As the city has reported a spike in the number of daily Covid-19 cases, several areas such as Bandra, Santacruz, Khar, Chembur, Mulund, Ghatkopar, Andheri and Oshiwara have reported the highest growth rate in Mumbai.According to Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) dashboard, the average growth rate is 0.22%, as on February 21 from 0.12% as on February 1. The above areas however, reported a growth rate of more than 0.24%. Borivli, Kandivli, Malad, Jogeshwari and Andheri top the list in terms of the highest number of active cases. According to the state health department data, there are 6,119 active cases in the city, as on Tuesday.BMC has attributed the steep rise to restarting of local trains for all, a large number of social gatherings such as weddings and non-compliance of Covid-appropriate behaviour.While the daily numbers have gone up, the number of cases on a month-on-month basis is still less. According to BMC’s data, over 11,000 Covid-19 cases were reported from January 1-22, which went down to over 10,000 cases from February 1-22. Kishore Gandhi, assistant civic commissioner from Mulund, said, “Restarting of locals and weddings are general factors behind the rise. Another reason is that the maximum population in T ward, under which Mulund falls, resides in buildings. The city is currently getting new cases from here.”Ajit Kumar Ambi, assistant municipal commissioner, Ghatkopar, said, “In Ghatkopar, many cases have come up after people attended marriage functions. Also, as the citizens in Ghatkopar are from better socio-economic backgrounds, more families are also getting tested. This results in increase in cases.”In the case of Bandra, local Congress corporator Asif Zakaria said that citizens are flouting Covid-19 norms. “The reason for the spike in Bandra is mainly because people are conducting house parties and restaurants are packed. The onus lies on citizens also to follow Covid-appropriate rules,” said Zakaria.Meanwhile, on Tuesday the city reported 643 cases and eight deaths. This took the tally to 320,523 and toll to 11,454.The city’s recovery rate is 94.24% with 302,094 recoveries, while the mortality rate is 3.6%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bandra-chembur-khar-see-highest-growth-rate-in-covid-19-cases-in-mumbai-101614108403470.html
24-02-2021||Mumbai||Five BJP corporators switch sides, Sangli civic body gets NCP mayor||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) lost some of its power in the Sangli civic body after at least five BJP corporators defected to the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) allies, the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Congress. In the mayoral election held on Tuesday, NCP nominee Digvijay Suryavanshi defeated BJP candidate Dhiraj Suryavanshi as five BJP corporators voted in favour of NCP, while other two others abstained from voting. Congress’ Umesh Patil was elected as deputy mayor.The result has come as a shock for the BJP as the party had a clear majority in the 78-member civic house of Sangli-Miraj-Kupwad Municipal Corporation. The BJP had won 41 members, while the NCP and the Congress had won 15 and 20 seats, respectively, in the corporation polls held in 2018. Two independent candidates also won the polls. Recently, with the death of Congress corporator Haroon Shikalgar, the party’s tally reduced to 19.Outgoing mayor Geeta Sutar’s term ended on February 21, and polling for the position was held on Tuesday. Digvijay Suryavanshi of the NCP received 39 votes against 37 for BJP’s Dhiraj Suryavanshi.Ahead of the election, BJP’s seven corporators went incommunicado, creating trouble for the party. The BJP had even sent the rest of the corporators to Goa to prevent the possibility of cross-voting.This is the second jolt to the BJP in western Maharashtra within two months after the legislative Council elections for Pune division graduates’ constituency held in December last year, in which NCP’s Arun Lad defeated BJP candidate Sangram Deshmukh by a margin of 48,824 votes.The defeat was embarrassing for the BJP as the seat got vacated after the party’s state unit chief Chandrakant Patil was to assembly from the Kothrud constituency in Pune in the 2019 Assembly elections. NCP spokesperson Mahesh Tapase said that the BJP is going to be booted out from western Maharashtra and the results of the mayoral election of Sangli-Miraj-Kupwad Municipal Corporation proves the same. “The result of the Pune graduates’ constituency election was an indication that the BJP is going to be deported from western Maharashtra and today’s mayoral election results proved it. By accepting the MVA, the people of the state have made it clear that the BJP’s “achchhe din” (good days), a slogan used by the BJP during the general election held in 2014, will never come back in Maharashtra,” said Tapase.BJP spokesperson Madhav Bhandari alleged that the NCP misused power and money for cross-voting. “NCP engineered cross-voting by using power and money as they are desperate to come to power in local bodies. What they tried to do during the recently-held gram panchayat elections has been repeated in the mayoral polls of Sangli-Miraj-Kupwad Municipal Corporation. We will also be holding an internal probe to ascertain the cause of defeat and take further action accordingly,” said Bhandari.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/five-bjp-corporators-switch-sides-sangli-civic-body-gets-congress-mayor-101614108343490.html
24-02-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC permits bail for ISIS recruit Areeb Majeed, rejects NIA’s appeal||Six years after being arrested for allegedly travelling to Syria to join the Islamic State (ISIS), Kalyan resident Areeb Majeed will finally be released on bail. The Bombay high court (HC) on Tuesday paved the way for Majeed’s release on bail after it rejected the appeal filed by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) challenging the March 2020 order of the special NIA court granting him bail.The HC said the special court’s decision to grant bail was based on the fact that the under-trial had already been detained for a long time and the trial would not be completed anytime soon. The HC, however, imposed strict conditions on Majeed and asked him to initially report to the local police station twice a day. A division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice Manish Pitale, while pronouncing judgement in NIA’s appeal, observed that though the punishment for Majeed, if convicted, would be from five years to life imprisonment, the slow pace at which the trial was proceeding did not give any indication of it being completed any time soon, hence the special court order was upheld partly. “Looking at the pace with which about 51 witnesses have been examined, which took more than five years for the NIA court, there is clearly no likelihood of the trial being completed within a reasonable time in the near future. Therefore, we are of the opinion that on this aspect, no error can be attributed to the impugned judgment and order passed by the NIA Court, while holding in favour of the respondent,” observed the HC. Majeed was booked for offences punishable under section 125 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and sections 16, 18 and 20 of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA), 1967, on November 28, 2014, and was arrested the next day. While in prison, he had applied for default bail which was rejected and his subsequent bail applications on merit were also rejected. It was only in March 2020 that the special NIA court had granted him bail on the grounds that he had already been in jail for six years and the trial would be delayed. NIA had then challenged the bail in the HC. The NIA, while challenging the bail, had submitted that there was no provision for bail under the UAPA, and the accused persons including the respondent (Majeed) formed an unlawful association to promote terrorism in Iraq, Syria and India. NIA, through additional solicitor general Anil Singh, had submitted that Majeed had allegedly returned to India to carry out such terrorist acts in the country, including blowing up the Mumbai Police Headquarters. Singh had also argued that granting bail would impact the trial as 107 witnesses were yet to be examined. While answering to the objection of the NIA that the release of Majeed would prejudice the trial, the HC held that as the under-trial was well-educated, had observed proper decorum while arguing his case before the NIA court as well as the current bench, and had admitted that going to Syria was a mistake, imposing strict conditions would not be harmful to the society at large and would not adversely affect the trial proceedings before the NIA court. The court also observed that the family of the under-trial were well-educated. In light of these observations, and the Supreme Court order wherein it had stated that the rigours of the provisions of UAPA for granting bail would melt down where there was no likelihood of the trial being completed within a reasonable time and the period of incarceration already undergone exceeded a substantial part of the prescribed sentence, provisions like section 43-D (5) of the UAPA could not be used for denial of bail, the HC upheld the NIA court order. While holding that the bail granted by the NIA court on merits was not sustainable, the HC said, “On the second aspect of the matter, pertaining to the long pendency of the trial and the respondent having already undergone incarceration for more than six years, we are inclined to uphold the impugned order on the said ground. Yet, we intend to impose further stringent conditions on the respondent while upholding his release on bail.” While ordering Majeeds release on a personal bond of ₹1 lakh, the court directed him to appear before the local police station twice a day for two months and thereafter once a day and so on. The court also restrained Majeed from speaking to the media about the trial and ordered him to cooperate for the expeditious completion of the trial. The court also asked Majeed to provide his residential address and surrender his passport to the police and warned that in the case of his failure to report to the police station, bail would be cancelled.Dr Ejaz Majeed, father of Areeb, while speaking to HT, said, “We are thankful to God for Areeb’s release and we are waiting for the formalities to be completed. It is too early to comment on how we are going to celebrate his return home.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-permits-bail-for-isis-recruit-areeb-majeed-rejects-nia-s-appeal-101614108342374.html
24-02-2021||Mumbai||Second leopard at Mumbai’s SGNP gets a radio collar||A six-year-old male leopard at the Sanjay Gandhi National Park (SGNP) was radio-collared and released into the wild on Monday. Earlier on Saturday, Savitri became the first leopard in Mumbai to be radio-collared, named after the social reformer and educationist Savitribai Phule. This is a part of the first phase of leopard radio-collaring work being carried out at SGNP, which is aimed at tracking and understanding the animal’s movement, said park director, G Mallikarjuna. A total of five leopards will be radio-collared in the first phase. The leopard, radio-collared on Monday, has been named Maharaj after Chhatrapati Shivaji. The two-year-long project to radio-collar leopards was initiated in 2018 when the park authorities signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with Wildlife Conservation Society – India (WCS). “We are hoping that this activity will help us understand leopards better,” said Mallikarjuna.The collars work by sending signals via satellite, which researchers can then use to investigate where the animal is and what it is doing.The key goals of this project are to obtain knowledge on how humans and leopards interact with each other, and how each adapts to the presence of the other. The collars will help gather information on how leopards move across major roads such as Ghodbandar Road and understand their use of space and time in the SGNP landscape. This data will then help provide management recommendations concerning the way these big cats move in the landscape and conflict mitigation based on the results of the study.Dr Vidya Athreya, from WCS, said, “This project at SGNP will give us more insights as in Mumbai, a high density of people lives in such close proximity to big cats. It will also help us track their pathway and understand how they cross busy roads such as the Ghodbunder Road. This will then help us manage them better to bring down mortality.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/second-leopard-at-mumbai-s-sgnp-gets-a-radio-collar-101614108223530.html
24-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Two bank employees booked for siphoning off ₹1.19 crore||The Powai police have booked two Bank of Baroda employees for allegedly siphoning off ₹1.19 crore in the past 18-months.According to the first information report (FIR) registered on Saturday, based on a complaint lodged by Maruti Tiwari, manager of the Powai branch of the bank, five to six suspicious transactions in a customer account were detected.A probe conducted by the bank found that suspicious transactions were linked to an account in the Visakhapatnam branch of the bank, opened in the name of one Kartik Kshatriya.Further inquiry revealed more such illegitimate transactions. “Bank’s internal inquiry revealed that from July 3, 2019, to February 18, 2021, illegitimate transactions worth ₹1.19 crore were done from the accounts of various bank customers to the bank account in Visakhapatnam,” states the FIR.“Bank documents mentioned that money was transferred to the account through cheques. But the account holder concerned had never issued the cheques,” said a police officer from Powai police station.On checking the records, the involvement of two bank employees surfaced. An inquiry revealed that a scale 1 officer Pawan Tankala and clerk Harshada Bhosale were behind these siphoning off of funds.The bank manager Tiwari then approached the police. The police have booked Tankala and Bhosale under sections 408 (criminal breach of trust by an employee), 409 (criminal breach of trust by public servant, or by banker, merchant or agent), 420 (cheating) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code. However, no one has been arrested so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-two-bank-employees-booked-for-siphoning-off-1-19-crore-101614108163578.html
24-02-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra Congress decides to adopt aggressive approach; to press for separate state farm law||Maharashtra Congress on Tuesday decided to adopt an aggressive approach, in a bid to regain its old glory in the state, and press for separate laws for farmers to negate the contentious farm laws passed by the Centre. It also plans to push for reservation for Muslims and expose the Narendra Modi government on its failure on various fronts, including rising fuel and domestic gas prices.The party, in its parliamentary board meeting on Tuesday, also decided to take a call on joining hands with the two other ruling parties for the local body elections.The newly appointed parliamentary board comprising of 32 members met for its first meeting in Mumbai on Tuesday. The meeting under the chairmanship of Maharashtra president Nana Patole was attended by party state in-charge HK Patil, party’s legislative leader Balasaheb Thorat, former chief ministers Ashok Chavan, Sushilkumar Shinde, Prithviraj Chavan, state ministers, among others.In a bid to strengthen its base, the party leaders decided to launch Sankalp Abhiyan, an outreach program under which leaders will reach out to the voter base, including farmers.“Under the Sankalp Abhiyan to be implemented for the next six months, state leaders will go to the people and farmers and explain about the anti-people policies of the Modi government. We will explain the gravity of the farm laws passed by the Centre. We have asked the leaders to stay with the farmers and the common people during the campaign,” said Patil.The board also passed four resolutions on contentious issues related to the people. The party passed resolutions demanding revocation of the farm laws passed by the Centre and creation of separate farm laws in the state, disbursement of funds for statutory boards in the state, and rightful reservation to Marathas and Muslims. They also passed a resolution for the allocation of funds for OBCs, VJNT and other backward classes.Patole said that the contentious farm laws passed by Parliament in September last year, have to be opposed strongly by Congress, but they will press for separate farm law in Maharashtra to safeguard the interest of the farmers. “We will not allow the central law to be implemented in the state. Congress will press for the separate law in Maharashtra to negate the central laws,” he said.Five municipal corporations, two district councils and more than 90 nagar panchayats will face polls in the next few months. The board discussed the alliance with other ruling parties. Patole said that the decision about the alliance will be taken by talking to the local leaders in respective local bodies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-congress-decides-to-adopt-aggressive-approach-to-press-for-separate-state-farm-law-101614108162341.html
24-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: HC seeks survey report of Banganga Tank allegedly affected by construction activities||The Bombay high court (HC) has directed the Directorate of Archaeology and Museums, government of Maharashtra, to conduct a survey of the Banganga Tank at Malabar Hill — a state-protected heritage structure, after the trust responsible for the tank alleged that piling and construction activities undertaken by developers nearby had affected the natural underground water, flowing into the tank.The directions were issued after the court was informed that construction activities were permitted provided the developers fulfilled eight conditions laid down by the directorate. The survey report has to be submitted to the court in a sealed cover on March 1.On Monday, the division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni, while hearing a petition filed by the board of trustees of the Temples Charitable Institution and Funds of Gaud Saraswat Brahman Community, which takes care of the administration of the Walkeshwar temple and the Banganga Tank in the temple complex, was informed by advocate Devendra Rajapurkar that the tank was a state-protected monument and a grade-I heritage structure. Rajapurkar submitted that the extensive piling and construction activity undertaken by developers near the tank was severely affecting the monument and the underground water streams flowing into the tank were being contaminated. He also submitted that there was an inflow of muddy water as well as accumulation of mud in the water of the tank in huge quantity.The court was informed that the Directorate of Archaeology and Museums had issued a stop-work notice to the developers as they had failed to get permissions to commence piling and construction work. Senior advocate Dr Milind Sathe for the developers, however, submitted that after the stop-work order was issued the developers had submitted a proposal and reports of technical experts to the directorate. After perusal and scrutiny of the same, on January 22, 2021, the directorate had lifted the stop-work order and permitted the resumption of piling and construction work provided the developers fulfilled eight conditions laid down by it. Dr Sathe added that the development activities were being carried out in strict compliance with the conditions.After hearing the submissions, the court observed that the issues raised in the petition were serious, the Directorate of Archaeology and Museums should depute an officer to undertake a survey of the tank and ascertain whether the allegations made by the trust were true and whether the developers were complying with the eight conditions.The court also directed that the officer should also ascertain whether the quality of water in the tank was being affected by the development activities and to submit a report of the above directions in a sealed cover and posted the hearing of the petition on March 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbaihc-seeks-survey-report-of-banganga-tank-allegedly-affected-by-construction-activities-101614107982443.html
24-02-2021||Mumbai||Lack of penetration does not mean it wasn’t rape, says Bombay HC||Reiterating that lack of penetration does not necessarily mean that there was no rape, the Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court (HC) on Thursday upheld a 10-year prison term handed down to a 74-year-old resident of Paithan in Aurangabad district, for raping his adopted daughter.According to the prosecution case, the survivor was alone at home with the accused on December 16, 2016, as her adoptive mother had gone out of town to attend a wedding. She alleged that she woke up in the night, as the 74-year-old started touching her inappropriately.He then undressed and also forcibly removed her clothes and tried to penetrate but could not. She further alleged that the next night, he again sexually assaulted her, but could not penetrate.In this backdrop, Paithan police swung into action and arrested the man after the survivor disclosed her ordeal to one of her teachers, who then reported the matter to the police. The 74-year-old was prosecuted for raping the minor.On July 10, 2019, a special Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act court convicted him for rape and sentenced him to 10 years’ imprisonment. He was, however, let off in all the Pocso charges, as the prosecution failed to prove the age of the survivor, who was reportedly 14 years old at the time of the attack.The convict had moved the HC in appeal. It was argued on his behalf that the girl was being used by his wife’s brothers to settle their personal scores over a property dispute. His lawyer submitted that there was no evidence of rape as even the survivor said there was no penetration.The single-judge bench of justice MG Sewlikar, however, refused to accept the contention. The judge noted that the medical evidence suggested that there was no penetration, but the girl was candid enough to admit it and did not try to improve her version.The court quoted the Supreme Court’s view reflected in Tarakeshwar Sahu’s case of 2006, holding that the word penetrate means “to find access into or through, pass through” and held that in the case at hand, penetration was complete so far as the convict was concerned. In this regard, the court took note of the fact that semen stains were found not only on the clothes of the 74-year-old but also on the clothes of the survivor.“From the observations made in this decision by the Hon’ble Supreme Court, even an attempt at penetration into the private part of the victim would be enough to attract the provisions of sections 375 and 376 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC),” said justice Sewlikar. “It is evident that even if there is no penetration, it does not necessarily mean that there was no rape,” the single judge bench reiterated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/lack-of-penetration-does-not-mean-it-wasn-t-rape-says-bombay-hc-101614107862188.html
24-02-2021||Mumbai||Ramp up Covid-19 safety efforts to September 2020 level, Uddhav tells MMR||Amid concern over the spike in Covid-19 cases, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday directed Mumbai as well as other civic bodies in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) to ensure that its preparation and infrastructure should be at par with their efforts in September last year — the peak of the outbreak. He also asked the civic bodies to ensure strict implementation of Covid-19 protocol rather than imposing more curbs such as lockdown to contain the spread of the virus, reiterating that he was not keen on re-imposing a lockdown.Thackeray held a review meeting with the commissioners of MMR’s nine municipal corporations on Tuesday in the wake of the upsurge over the past two weeks. Further, he held a separate meeting to discuss the situation in Mumbai. The civic bodies have been told to take the upsurge very seriously and not to tolerate laxity in mitigation measures. The municipal corporations have also been told to ramp up health infrastructure to match the capacity of the beds seen during the peak of the pandemic in September last year.Meanwhile, Maharashtra reported fewer cases for a second consecutive day after a spike in cases over the earlier three days. A total of 6,218 new cases and 51 deaths were reported on Tuesday, taking the state tally to 2,112,313 and toll to 51,857. Like in the state, Mumbai reported a drop in cases for a second consecutive day by reporting 643 cases, taking the tally to 320,532 and the toll to 11,454 with eight new deaths reported on Tuesday. Pune city remained on top in the daily caseload on Tuesday by logging 679 cases, while other major cities like Nagpur city (544), Amravati city (515)continued to report a high number of cases. According to state officials, the municipal corporations have also been directed to take strict actions against managements violating norms at super-spreader events like wedding ceremonies by taking criminal action against them. They have also been told to ensure that the people follow Covid- appropriate behaviour stringently.“People in these cities, surrounding the financial capital of the country, are not in favour of another lockdown, which may badly hamper the economy and livelihood. The state government also wants to resort to imposing curbs as a last resort after tapping into another measures. As part of it, the CM has asked the local bodies for preventive measures such as penalising people for not wearing masks, overcrowding at public places and violating the protocol. Crowding in limited numbers would be fine if people followed Covid-appropriate behaviour and help contain the spread. The corporations have been directed to get their act together in this direction,” said an official from the health department.Meanwhile, ICMR’s director general Dr Balram Bhargawa clarified in his weekly briefing that there was no direct link between the recent surge in cases in Maharashtra and other states and mutant virus strains N440K and E484Q of Covid-19. “These two strains have been detected in other countries too and are not specific to India. The E484Q strain was earlier detected in four sequences in Maharashtra as early as March and July last year. N440K mutation was reported on 13 difference occasions between May and September last year in Telangana, Andhra Pradesh and Assam. The Maharashtra upsurge cannot be attributed to the currently discussed point mutations. The situation is, however, constantly monitored,” the ICMR statement stated. The upsurge in five districts (Amravati, Akola, Yavatmal, Washim and Buldhana) of Vidarabha was 306% in two weeks as the daily caseload rose to 1,364 on February 22, from 705 on February 8. It was 429% (52 to 275 cases) in two weeks in four districts of Aurangabad (Aurangabad, Jalna, Parbhani, Hingoli), the district which share boundaries with Vidarbha. During the period, the rise was 189% (327 to 946 cases) in other six districts of Eastern Vidarbha, while it was just 57% in five districts (Nashik, Dhule, Nandurbar, Ahmedabad and Jalgaon).The upsurge reported in MMR, which comprise nine cities, including Mumbai and Thane, was 93% (daily caseload rose from 705 to 1,364) between February 8 and February 22. It was 91% in Pune division (Pune, Solapur and Satara districts) during this period.Dr Subhash Salunkhe, state government’s advisor on Covid-19, said the upsurge witnessed in western Vidarbha can spread out to other parts if micro containment measures were not taken. “Initially the transmission was from cities like Mumbai, Pune to peripheral and rural areas and took about 5-6 months, but this time it is from rural areas and may take only one month. It is spreading to the neighbouring districts of Marathwada from Vidarbha and if the micro containment measures are not taken, it will spread rapidly to other areas. If it spread rapidly to other parts, we will have to go for the lockdown and bring back the number of commuters in trains down by restricting them only to essential services,” he said.More districts imposed curbs on movement in the wake of the rise in the number of Covid-19 cases. After Akola, Amravati, Yavatmal in Vidarbha, Jalna district administration announced to keep schools and colleges (except Class 10 and 12) and weekly markets shut till March 31. The district administration has also decided to conduct antigen tests on super spreaders. Meanwhile, the turnout for the vaccination drive improved on Tuesday as 42,319 heath care workers and front line workers were inoculated at 671 centres across the state. The total number of beneficiaries stands at 948,483, including 634,865 HCWs and 313,618 FLWs. Of them, 79,788 are HCWs who have been given a second dose of the vaccine.Additional municipal commissioner of BMC, Suresh Kakani, said, “We are approaching summer season, which required more use of air-conditioning units, water coolers. Due to this, we should not find ourselves at the receiving end of an untoward incident in the middle of a pandemic.”Kakani said that the upsurge in Mumbai is also because of the rise in the number of commuters to more than 2 million after travel was allowed to all from February 1.The chief minister also directed BMC to strengthen its vigilance system to ensure Covid-19 rules are followed at public places and at public gatherings, wedding ceremonies, bars, pubs, restaurants, and gardens. “We have been asked to take the list of all bookings at marriage halls, banquet halls, gymkhanas, and cinema halls, for any kinds of gatherings. This will make it easier to regulate them by organising frequent inspections at the time of the ceremonies or gatherings, the CM said” according to Kakani.BMC aims to generate support from Mumbaiites to ensure everyone is wearing masks, instead of relying on clean-up marshals alone to fine people not wearing face masks. BMC will now start more awareness campaigns across the city. A senior civic officer said, “If someone is not wearing a mask in a local train, his fellow passengers should point out to him that it is important to wear a masks. We need to build more awareness in people.”As of Tuesday, Mumbai has 13,131 beds for symptomatic covid-19 patients, 1559 ICU beds, and 8,057 oxygen beds, which will be increased in the coming week. Kakani also said that they have aggravated action against people who violated Covid-19 protocol. “We took action against 23,000 people and establishments today, against 15,000 yesterday, for not wearing masks, allowing consumers more than the allotted percentage. We are currently not planning restrictions on operations of establishments like hotels or reducing working hours of private offices and expect them to operate at permitted norms,” he said.Abhijeet Bangar, commissioner, Navi Mumbai municipal corporation, said that they have started ramping up public health infrastructure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ramp-up-covid-19-safety-efforts-to-september-2020-level-uddhav-tells-mmr-101614107803085.html
24-02-2021||Mumbai||Post-mortem report confirms MP Mohan Delkar died by suicide: Mumbai Police||The post-mortem report of Lok Sabha member of Parliament (MP) from Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Mohan Sanjibhai Delkar, has confirmed that he died by suicide, said a senior police officer on Tuesday. Delkar was found dead in a hotel in south Mumbai on Monday afternoon.The senior police officer said that Delkar has left behind a 15-pages suicide note which he had written on his official letterhead. The initial inquiry revealed that the handwriting in the letter is his, however, the police have roped in the handwriting expert for establishing the same.“A team of forensic expert visited the place of the incident and scanned the entire place. Also, a panel of doctors conducted the post-mortem at the Sir JJ Hospital and concluded the cause of death as a suicide. A detailed report is awaited,” the officer said. Police sources said that the doctors have opined that the MP may have taken the extreme step early in the morning on Monday.The body has been handed over to the family for final rituals. As the family is in grief, we have not called them for enquiry. But we will speak to them soon and record their statement if required, the officer added.Police sources said that Delkar has named few people in the suicide note claiming they were harassing him. However, the police are tight-lipped about the content of his suicide note. Delkar had come to Mumbai on Sunday evening from Silvasa as he had some case in Bombay high court.Delkar and his driver Ashok Patel had stayed at the fifth-floor rooms in the Hotel. On Monday at around noon, the driver knocked Delkar’s room’s door. On getting no response he informed the hotel management who tried to open the door using spare keys, but in vain as the door was locked from inside. Delkar’s driver then called his employer’s family and informed them. They tried to contact him by calling on his cell phone, but in vain. “Delkar’s driver, who stayed at the next room, went to his room’s gallery and by climbing the pipeline entered Delkar’s room whose gallery window was open. The driver discovered Delkar was hanging by the ceiling using his shawl. And then the police were informed at around 2pm,” said a police officer.Police are also checking the CCTVs of the hotel to know if anyone met him on Sunday night, and are scanning the phone call details of Delkar, his WhatsApp chats, and also checking with whom he spoke to last time before taking the extreme step. The police, for now, have registered an accidental death report and is further investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/postmortem-report-confirms-mp-mohan-delkar-died-by-suicide-mumbai-police-101614107682061.html
24-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Virar,Thane bullet train stations realigned to save mangroves, NHSRCL to HC||The Bombay high court on Tuesday accepted the submission by the National High-Speed Rail Corporation Limited (NHSRCL), wherein it was informed, that as per the request of the state and central environment ministries, they have decided to bring down the number of mangroves that needed to be removed for the Mumbai-Ahmedabad bullet train project. The corporation further informed that though the number of mangroves to be cut in Thane, Mumbai and Palghar districts to make way for the project was more than halved, the undertaking of the compensatory plantation would not be reduced and around 2.6 lakh mangroves would be planted. A division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni, while hearing the interim application in the writ petition filed by the NHSRCL, was informed by advocate Prahlad Paranjpe that as per the directions of the Maharashtra State Coastal Zone Management (MCZMA) and ministry of environment, forest and climate change, to reduce the number of mangroves to be removed for the bullet train project, the corporation had realigned the Virar and Thane bullet train stations. The directions were issued on March 29, 2019. Earlier in 2019, the NHSRCL had filed a writ petition in the Bombay HC seeking permission to cut 53,467 mangroves that were present on the 155-km stretch of the 508-km long corridor which passed through the coastal region of Maharashtra. The mangroves that were sought to be cut were situated over a stretch of 21-23 km of coastal land and over which the elevated line would pass. While making submissions in the application, Paranjpe submitted that following the directions of the authorities the number of mangroves to be removed was brought down to 21,997 which was achieved by realigning the Virar and Thane bullet train stations. Paranjpe further submitted that though the number of mangroves to be cut was brought down the corporation would abide by its previous commitment of afforestation in the ratio of 1:5 and would be planting 2.6 lakh mangroves as a compensatory plantation. He further submitted that in light of this the NHSRCL wanted to amend the number of mangroves sought to be removed in the petition as well, hence the same should be allowed. As none of the contesting parties which included the state of Maharashtra, MCZMA and MoEFCC objected, the court allowed the amendment and directed NHSRCL to amend the petition and said that it would hear the petition next Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-virar-thane-bullet-train-stations-realigned-to-save-mangroves-nhsrcl-to-hc-101614107442452.html
24-02-2021||Mumbai||Autos, taxi drivers must get meters recalibrated by May 30: Maharashtra government||As minimum fares of autorickshaws and black-and-yellow taxis are set to increase from March 1, the state government has given autorickshaw and taxi owners till May 30 to get their meters recalibrated. There are 40,000 black-and-yellow taxis and 2,00,000 autorickshaws operating in Mumbai. The meters of these vehicles are calibrated based on tariffs fixed by the authorities. Every time the fare is revised, meters must be recalibrated, which only certain vendors are authorised to do by the transport authorities. In the past, all autorickshaws and taxis could not be recalibrated in the stipulated period, which led to disputes between commuters and drivers. On Monday, the Maharashtra government announced that the minimum fare of autorickshaws would increase from ₹18 to ₹21. Thereafter, the per-kilometre rate will increase to ₹14.20 from the present ₹12.19. Similarly, the minimum fare of black-and-yellow taxis will increase from ₹22 to ₹25. Thereafter the per-kilometre rate will increase to ₹16.93 from ₹14.84. The government has given vehicle owners and drivers till May 30 to recalibrate their meters. “The price hike will be implemented from March 1. Autorickshaw and taxi drivers will have to get their meters calibrated by May 30. From June 1, the updated fare should be visible in meter readings,” said state transport minister Anil Parab. Autorickshaw and taxi drivers and owners have questioned if the May 30 deadline is feasible. “There are limited centres for calibration and testing. The testing of metres is also a time-consuming process, which will lead to delay in the calibration and testing work,” said Akhlakh Shaikh, an autorickshaw driver and resident of Vikhroli. Autorickshaw unions have said the government is likely to set up additional testing centres to facilitate the recalibration process. “During the previous fare hikes, temporary set-ups for testing meters were made by the government. This is likely to happen this time as well. The recalibration can be done instantly, but the testing of the meters takes time. All autorickshaws in the city should be recalibrated by June.” said Shashank Rao, leader, Mumbai AutorickshawMen’s Union. The state transport department said on Tuesday that it would ensure all autorickshaw and taxi meters are recalibrated and tested by May 30. “The department will make sure and undertake steps to recalibrate all autorickshaws and taxis by the deadline,” said state transport commissioner Avinash Dhakne. Meanwhile, the Mumbai Grahak Panchayat, which works to safeguard the interests of consumers, has written to Parab suggesting the fare hike be postponed by six months. It has also asked the government to reconsider the fare hike for the per-kilometre rate. “The Panchayat has asked the government to reconsider the decision of per kilometre increase of ₹2.09 for autorickshaw and ₹2.01 for taxis. Rickshaw and taxi fares have not increased in the last five years. There is no doubt that this fare hike is mandatory. Rickshaw and taxi owners need financial assistance in this current difficult situation. However, the entire economy has come to a standstill and many have lost their jobs and many are facing salary cuts. As the purchasing power of the average consumer is drastically reduced, the daily consumption of autorickshaw and taxis by the customers will naturally decrease,” says the letter written by Shirish Deshpande, chairman, Mumbai Grahak Panchayat. The Panchayat in its letter has also a revision in a fare increase. “To achieve the objective of increasing the income of autorickshaw and taxi drivers, one rupee increase in per kilometre fare could be given and in rest per kilometres 75 paise increase. The government should implement the fare hike in two phases. Further, the minimum fare could be increased by ₹2 instead of ₹3 and the per kilometre money increase should be suspended for a year,” says the Panchayat in its letter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/autos-taxi-drivers-must-get-meters-recalibrated-by-may-30-maharashtra-government-101614107322389.html
24-02-2021||Mumbai||IATA in talks with Indian airlines to provide passenger-friendly app for international travel||Global airlines group- International Air Transport Association (IATA) is in talks with Indian airlines for its travel pass, which will not only help passengers in seamless air travel but also will be in accordance with governments norms. Travel pass is a digital process of travel which will eliminate the lengthy physical documentation work, thereby saving time for passengers, airport operators as well as the airlines.“Travel pass enables passengers to create a ‘digital passport’, verify their (Covid-19) test/vaccination, meets the regulations and share test or vaccination certificates with authorities to facilitate travel. It also enables passengers to find accurate information on travel, testing and (eventually) vaccine requirements for their journey,” IATA said on Tuesday.IATA carried out trial runs for travel pass app with Singapore Airlines in the last quarter of 2020. This year, it carried out trials with airlines like Emirates, Qatar Airways amongst others. After running these trials, IATA has declared to globally roll out the travel pass from next month.IATA said its travel pass is a digital solution that addresses challenges of fraud paper certificates and hence has been built with data security, convenience and verification as top priorities.As per IATA, integrated registry of travel requirements in the app will help passengers in getting precise information on travel and entry requirements for all destinations. It will also include a registry of laboratories and in due course it will also provide details of nearby vaccination centres. This will make it more convenient for passengers to find testing centres and labs at their departure city which would meet the requirements of their destination.The association also said that this platform will also enable verified labs and test centres to securely send test results or vaccination certificates to passengers.Specifying the importance of using the travel pass, IATA said, “The travel pass is modular and interoperable, it is based on standards, it is proven and trusted.”The association also said the travel pass can be used for contactless travel – that will continue long even after the pandemic. Assuring privacy in the travel pass app, IATA also said that passengers will have the sole right to share their data and they can delete their data anytime on their app.BOX:Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) has facilitated the distribution of approximately 43 million doses of vaccines to 8.5 million doses in India and 34.5 million doses across the globe. The standard operating procedures (SOPs) implemented by the airport saw the terminal register an average cargo processing time of just 10 minutes for domestic delivery and 25 minutes for international (right from goods acceptance to dispatch at the ramp). CSMIA has distributed approximately 113 tons of vaccines to over 57 destinations. This includes over 29 international and 28 domestic destinations. The city airport also witnessed the highest export of vaccines to Dhaka (nine million doses), followed by Morocco (with six million doses) and Brazil (with four million doses).On the domestic front, a total of 2.1 million doses of vaccines were distributed to Raipur, Cochin and Guwahati. The airport has supported over 18 airlines for the vaccine distribution across the globe. Air India, Emirates and Royal Air Morocco emerged as the top three airlines operating the highest number of vaccines to international destination with 15 million, 6.1 million and 6 million doses respectively whereas SpiceJet, Indigo and Go Air were the top airlines catering to the domestic destinations with 3.1 million, 2.7 million and 1.5 million doses respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/iata-in-talks-with-indian-airlines-to-provide-passenger-friendly-app-for-international-travel-101614107142232.html
24-02-2021||Chandigarh||2 PEC alumnae part of NASA’s Mars mission||Two alumnae of Punjab Engineering College (PEC) are among the scientists who are part of the US space agency NASA’s Mars 2020 mission. Vandi Verma had graduated from PEC in 1994 and Kavita Kaur completed her degree a year later. While Verma is the chief engineer for robotic operations for the Mars 2020 Perseverance Rover, Kaur has worked on Mars 2020 mission in various capacities, including ground data system (GDS) engineer and GDS integration and test engineer. According to the space agency, Mars 2020 Perseverance Rover will search for signs of ancient microbial life, which will advance NASA’s quest to explore the past habitability of the planet.Kaur, the daughter of former principal of Chandigarh College of Architecture SS Bhatti, had started her journey at NASA’s Jet Propulsion Laboratory (JPL) on the deep impact project in 2002 after completing her postgraduation. Bhatti said, “She was always keen on doing engineering and a bright child since her childhood. We are happy about her achievements.”Verma has been working with NASA after completing her PhD in robotics from Carnegie Mellon University. Since 2008, she has been driving rovers on Mars and operating the robotic arm and sampling system as a Rover Planner. PEC is also known for being the college from where Kalpana Chawla graduated. PEC director, Dheeraj Sanghi said, “The institution is very proud of them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/2-pec-alumnae-part-of-nasa-s-mars-mission-101614106362011.html
24-02-2021||Indore||Authorities blame locals after Indore witnesses spurt in Covid-19 cases||By Neha JainAfter a sudden spurt in Covid 19 cases in Madhya Pradesh's Indore, authorities blamed the locals for spreading the infection. Indore, which has 660 active cases, highest in MP, is witnessing another wave of Covid-19 infection as in the past two weeks the number of positive cases jumped by 82 per cent on Monday.The local district administration and health officials said the situation is under control but it can turn from bad to worse if people don’t get alert.The cases increased as people are not following the home isolation rules and visiting public places in large numbers without masks. People are also not maintaining social distancing, said Manish Singh, collector Indore.Covid-19 contact tracing in-charge, Dr Anil Dongre said, “The number of cases is increasing as many families are getting infected with the virus. At least 10-12 families are testing positive for the infection daily. They even don't follow Covid-19 protocols. Sometimes, we received complaints of people not following home isolation and roaming outside.”Also read: Rakesh Tikait holds out threat of Parliament siege if farm laws are not repealed“Recently, more than 20 people got infected after attending a party. How we will stop them? If people don’t get serious, the condition can turn serious like April and October last year when the positivity rate was recorded 12-13 per cent," he added.A resident, Ekta Yadav, who raised the issue of violation of home isolation in her locality a few days ago, said, “People are not showing seriousness about Covid-19. They might be fortunate that they didn't get affected due to the infection but they should at least think of others. Even, the administration and police stopped penalising people for violating guidelines.”Jitendra Singh Yadav, a social worker from Indore, said, “It is easy to blame people but the authorities will not accept that they were not doing anything to ensure the implementation of guidelines. People get serious only when authorities showed seriousness about any issue.”Indore has registered the highest number of Covid-19 fatalities in Madhya Pradesh along with those getting infected from the virus. As many as 931 patients died while 58,860 cases have been reported so far from Indore.According to the Madhya Pradesh health department report, as many as 259,721 positive cases of Covid-19 have been reported in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/indore-news/authorities-blame-locals-after-indore-witnesses-spurt-in-covid-19-cases-101614106151010.html
24-02-2021||Chandigarh||Woman cashier loses ₹2.2 lakh to snatchers in Mohali’s Kharar||Two unidentified miscreants snatched a bag containing ₹2.26 lakh in cash and three cheques worth ₹18,930 from a woman working as a cashier for Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL), the district police said on Tuesday.In her police compliant, Karamjit Kaur said the incident took place on Tuesday afternoon near the electricity board office in Kharar when she was going to a bank to deposit cash. As soon as she left the office, the miscreants came on a bike and snatched her bag and fled.Kaur said that she was able to see one of the snatchers as the other was wearing a helmet. Based on her complaint, the police have registered a case against the bike-borne duo under Section 379-B (snatching) of the IPC and started investigation.Thieves flee with purse of bride’s mother at Dhakoli banquet hallIn another theft case, the purse of a bride’s mother, containing ₹2 lakh, gold jewellery and some shagun envelops, was stolen during a wedding in Dhakoli.The bride’s father, Harpal Singh of Shakti Nagar in Dera Bassi, told police that his daughter’s wedding was being held at Grand Nimantran Palace on Monday evening when the incident took place. His wife had kept the purse on a sofa during the garland ceremony, and found it missing after sometime. As the theft was recorded in the CCTV camera installed at the premises, it showed two men leaving with the purse.A case has been registered under Section 380 (theft) of the IPC at the Dhakoli police station.Superintendent of police (rural) Ravjot Kaur Grewal said they have zeroed in on the accused in both cases. They will be arrested soon, she said.Gang that loots women after offering lift strikes again in ZirakpurTwo women in a car snatched gold bangles from an elderly woman after offering her lift in a car in Zirakpur on Tuesday. This was second such incident in Zirakpur and third in the tricity this month.Suresh Sharma, 64, a resident of Badal Colony, told police that she was returning from a relative’s house in Lohgarh when a Maruti Suzuki Swift car stopped next to her. A woman disembarked from the car, which was being driven by a man, and told Suresh that she wanted to talk to her about a wedding proposal for her son. There was another woman sitting in the vehicleWhen Suresh replied that she does not want to get her son married as yet, the woman gave the reference of a youth known to her and said he had asked them to talk to her. The woman then offered her a lift. As soon as Suresh sat in the car, the two women threatened her and forcibly removed her two gold bangles and threw her out of the moving vehicle on the Patiala road before fleeing. Suresh claimed the two bangles were worth ₹1.2 lakh. Police have registered a case.In a similar incident on February 7, two women in a Swift Dzire, being driven by a man, robbed a 35-year-old woman of her gold chain after offering her lift on the Chandigarh road in Zirakpur. Later, on February 16, a 65-year-old woman lost her gold bangles after being offered lift in Sector 44, Chandigarh. That car, too, had two women and a male driver.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/woman-cashier-loses-2-2-lakh-to-snatchers-in-mohali-s-kharar-101614106181962.html
24-02-2021||Chandigarh||Panchkula court issues attachment warrant to SBI branch||For failing to comply with an order of paying compensation, the Panchkula civil court has issued a warrant regarding attachment of movable property to a State Bank of India (SBI) branch here.Panchkula civil judge (senior division) Hitesh Garg stated in his order that “SBI through its branch manager was ordered by the court to pay plaintiff Anil Kumar an amount of ₹32,000, but the sum has not been paid.”“These are to command you to attach the movable property of the SBI through its branch manager, R/o SCO 14, Sector 10, Panchkula, as set forth in the schedule hereunto annexed, or which shall be pointed out to you by the said SBI through branch manager,” the order mentions.The court has directed to return this warrant on or before March 15, 2020, with an endorsement certifying the day on which and manner in which it has been executed or why it has not been executed.In August 2018, the court had ordered that the petitioner having an account with the SBI had obtained a housing loan from the PNB Housing Finance Limited. He wanted to settle the loan within a short span of time, hence he issued cheque of May 25 that year in favour of PNB Housing Finance Limited amounting to ₹15 lakh from his account maintained with the respondent.However, the said cheque was dishonoured with remarks “kindly contact drawer/drawee bank and please present again”, the court stated. The bank also imposed a penalty. Later, the plaintiff sent the amount from another account.The court observed that since the applicant has enough deposit in his account to honour the cheque, by dishonouring it, the respondent (bank) has adopted unfair practice, which amounts to deficiency in service.This petition was opposed by the bank, which stated that the cheque was sent to the centralised clearing cell of SBI, Sector 17, Chandigarh, and the same was returned by the clearing cell.In the same year, the court had passed the award in favour of the petitioner and directed the respondent to pay ₹20,000 as compensation and ₹11,000 as litigation expenses.However, the bank did not comply with the order, following which the court issued the attachment warrant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panchkula-court-issues-attachment-warrant-to-sbi-branch-101614106122557.html
24-02-2021||City||Odisha woman arrested for marrying multiple men through different Aadhaar ID||A 32-year-old woman of Odisha's Sundargarh district has been arrested by police in Kalahandi district on charges of marrying multiple men and duping them.Kalahandi superintendent of police Dr Vivek M Saravana said the police arrested Elee Mahanta of Sundargarh district following complaints that she married at least three men after the death of her husband."She assumed multiple names after the death of her husband Kumudbandhu Patel in 2011. She then prepared an Aadhaar card in the name of Sindhumati Munda in September 2013 and married a person named Rajendra Das the same month. After the marriage, she visited her relatives at village Sarangarh of Chhatisgarh where she met a 51-year-old woman named Manju alias Mina Gutpa who taught her how to cheat people in the name of marriage," said Saravana.A few years later, she divorced Das and got a new Aadhaar card in the name of Elee Mahanta in May 2018. She again married another person.Also read: BJP's Rakesh Singh, named by Pamela Goswami in drugs case, arrested in KolkataIn June 2020, she again got a new Aadhar card made in the name of Mamata Agarwal and married a man called Bikash Jain of Kalahandi district in October. “Her associate, Birbal Sharma, played the role of a mediator in the marriage and took ₹4 lakh from Bikash's family members as his mediation fees. The gang also arranged a visit of the groom's family to Sundargarh and made it look like as if she belonged to some Marwari family," said the SP.Police said the modus operandi of the gang was to target elderly or divorced men. "While Elee used to be the prospective bride, the three others used to act as her mother, father and uncle. They used to share the loot. When we raided the place, we found all of them there," said the SP.The investigating officer of the case, Binita Toppo, said from the preliminary investigation it has been found that the woman married four times. "We suspect the number may rise further. Many people, who were cheated by them, are not approaching us fearing social stigma. We urge them to register a complaint,” said Toppo.Apart from Mahant, others who were arrested include Birbal Sharma (60), Manju alias Mina Gupta (51) and Sraban Soni (36).Police officials said the case seemed to be straight out of Sonam Kapoor-starrer 2015 Bollywood movie 'Dolly ki Doli' wherein Dolly, a young con artist, marries men from different religions and runs away with their wealth on the night of the wedding. Her entire family consisted of con artists. After conning several rich men, she gets media attention and labels her as "looteri dulhan".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/odisha-woman-arrested-for-marrying-multiple-men-through-different-aadhaar-id-101614105900757.html
24-02-2021||Chandigarh||Vijay Hazare Trophy: Chandigarh beat Bengal at Eden Gardens||Playing in just their second domestic season, Chandigarh showed their mettle by beating a formidable team like Bengal in the Elite Group E Vijay Hazare Trophy tie at the Eden Gardens in Kolkata on Tuesday.Manan Vohra-led Chandigarh team toppled Bengal at their home ground with a five-wicket win and recorded their second successive triumph in the tournament. With this win, Chandigarh grabbed four points, taking their tally to eight.Upon winning the toss, Chandigarh captain Manan opted to field. Bengal opener Shreevats Goswami and one-down batsman Abhimanyu Easwaran hit 35 runs each, while Shahbaz Nadeem made the highest 59 runs. Chandigarh bowlers bowled a disciplined line and length and were backed by splendid ground fielding. Spinners Gaurav Gambhir (2 for 45), Gurinder Singh (2 for 47) and Bipul Sharma (2 for 50) were the main wicket-takers for the visitors.In reply, led by impressive knocks from opener Arslan Khan (88) and Shivam Bhambri (71 not out), Chandigarh beat the hosts by five wickets. Captain Manan, who made 117 runs in the last match, scored 45 runs.Seeing such gallant and disciplined performance, coach VRV Singh, who has played for India in Tests and ODIs as well, would hope Chandigarh beat Services in their next game to be played on February 25 and book their place in the quarter-finals. Last season, Chandigarh were in the Plate Group but this time they have been placed in the Elite Group with established state teams like Haryana, Bengal, Services and Jammu and Kashmir. In the last match, Chandigarh had stunned Haryana to surprise everyone.Scores in brief Bengal: 253 for 9 in 50 overs (Shahbaz Nadeem 59, Shreevats Goswami 35, Abhimanyu Easwaran 35, Gaurav Gambhir 2 for 45, Gurinder Singh 2 for 47, Bipul Sharma 2 for 50) lost to Chandigarh: 257 for 5 in 48.5 overs (Arslan Khan 88, Shivam Bhambri 71 not out, Manan Vohra 45, Ankit Kaushik 35, Akash Deep 2 for 53) by five wickets||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/vijay-hazare-trophy-chandigarh-beat-bengal-at-eden-gardens-101614106062015.html
24-02-2021||Chandigarh||Amid surge in Covid cases, Chandigarh admn mulls curbs||Amid a spike in Covid-19 cases in Chandigarh, the UT administration is exploring the options to enforce stricter restrictions on the lines of those imposed by the Punjab government on Tuesday.Stating that restrictions will not be implemented immediately, UT adviser Manoj Parida said: “We are keeping a watch on the situation. We will consult medical experts and decide as the situation develops.”After showing a downward trend, the number of weekly cases jumped from 131 between February 8 and 14 to 187 between February 15 and 21 — an increase of 43%. This is coupled with a steady rise in the number of active cases, which crossed the 200 mark on Monday for the first time in a month. The city’s weekly positivity rate has also seen an uptick from 1.4% to 1.9%.In Punjab, which too has seen a significant surge, the government has restricted the number of attendees at indoor gatherings to 100 and outdoor ones to 200 from March 1. The state government also directed deputy commissioners to impose nigh curfew in hot spots, if required.Ruling out the night curfew in Chandigarh, Parida said: “We have taken a soft approach so far, and succeeded in controlling the pandemic in the city. We will follow the same approach.” However, the administration, if required, could impose restrictions on gatherings.More focus on vaccinationParida said the administration’s focus would be on vaccination for now. “We have health facilities to control the spread. For increasing the vaccination rate in the city, we will step up the awareness campaign. It is already being done in different departments,” he said.The administration is also examining several steps being taken in other states for increasing the participation of frontline workers in taking the vaccination. Options, such as allowing one-day leave for vaccination or restricting financial help extended to employees in case of infection if they have skipped the shot, are also on the table.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/amid-surge-in-covid-cases-chandigarh-admn-mulls-curbs-101614105942252.html
24-02-2021||Noida||Greater Noida resident loses ₹1 lakh to man posing as friend||Greater Noida: A man has been allegedly duped of ₹1 lakh by an unidentified person who impersonated as his friend and asked for the money on the pretext of a medical emergency. Niranjan Kumar Saini, a resident of a high-rise in Greater Noida West, has filed a complaint at Bisrakh police station. According to Saini, someone contacted him last week over phone and identified himself as his old friend “Sharma ji”. “I knew Sharma Ji for several years. He is a good person and owns a factory in Noida Sector 10. The caller said that one of his family members was injured in an accident and is admitted to a private hospital in Gurugram,” he said.Saini said that the caller informed him he had brought ₹2.5 lakh cash and he needed some more money. “He asked me to pay ₹20,000 through a UPI ID for medical bills. I believed him as his voice resembled to Sharma Ji and I made the payment,” Saini said. The suspect again called and said that the charges of tests are high and he needed more money. “I paid ₹85,000 to the person in multiple transactions. Next morning, I again transferred ₹15,000 to the suspect’s account online,” he said.The complainant said he smelled foul play when the suspect said that he had not received ₹15,000. “The suspect sent me an unscrupulous URL and asked to click to recover the unsuccessful transaction amount. I shifted my account’s rest of the amount to my another account and then clicked the link. I found that the link was meant to steal money from my account,” Saini said.Later, he contacted his friend Sharma Ji to enquire about the matter and found that he had not made any such request. Police registered a case against an unidentified person on Monday. Munish Chauhan, station house officer of Bisrakh police station, said, “A case has been registered under Section 66-D of IT Act. We are investigating it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/greater-noida-resident-loses-1-lakh-to-man-posing-as-friend-101614105341633.html
24-02-2021||Noida||12-year-old girl kidnapped in Greater Noida||Police are searching for a 12-year-old girl missing since February 20 from Ecotech 1 area in Greater Noida.The girl lives with her parents, an elder brother and younger sister in a rented accommodation in Luksar area. Her maternal uncle, Sachin Kumar, said that, “She had left home without informing anyone. At 7 pm, she contacted her mother over phone and informed that she was at her friend’s birthday party.” When the mother asked her to share the friend’s name and address,he said, someone appeared to have snatched the phone and disconnected the call. “We tried to call the number multiple times, but the phone was switched off. We also launched a search in the neighbourhood but failed to trace her,” he said. “We suspect role of some local people in the kidnapping.” The family has filed a complaint and named three persons – Brajesh, Sanjay and Sheetal – and one unknown person as suspects in this case. Rameshwar Kumar, SHO Ecotech I police station, said a case has been registered under Section 363 (kidnapping) of IPC. “We are questioning the suspects in connection with the case,” Kumar said. The police are also scanning the call details of the mobile phone used in calling the mother that evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/12yearold-girl-kidnapped-in-greater-noida-101614105341083.html
24-02-2021||Noida||Yamuna pollution impacting avifauna at Okhla Bird Sanctuary, says Noida forest department||Noida: The Gautam Budh Nagar forest department has urged the irrigation department of the Delhi government to ensure that sewage generated in the national capital is treated before being discharged in Yamuna, stating that the “excessive pollution” in the river is causing adverse impact on avifauna at the Okhla Bird Sanctuary (OBS).Officials from the forest department have said the number of migrant birds at the sanctuary -- situated along the downstream of Yamuna -- has dropped due to the pollution in the river. They suggested to the Delhi irrigation department to build sewage treatment plants to minimise the “adverse impact” on the habitat health.The officials said that while the forest department is yet to get the water samples from sanctuary tested to assess its quality, the wetland has started to stink and the presence of oil and grease in the water is visible.“Thousands of migrant birds arrive at the 400-hectare lake in the Okhla Bird Sanctuary. Sewage from several drains is released every day into Yamuna causing adverse impact on the birds here. Due to the excessive pollution in the river, the birds are leaving the sanctuary. It is thus requested to ensure that all the drains are treated using sewage treatment plants prior to their release in the river so that waterbirds are not affected,” PK Srivastava, divisional forest officer, GB Nagar, has said in a letter (dated February 22) to the Delhi irrigation department. According to the Asian Waterbird Census-2021, the number of birds at OBS went down to 8,068 against 8,776 last year and 12,212 in 2019. The water quality of the river around Okhla barrage has been worsening. As per the Delhi Pollution Control Committee’s (DPCC’s) report, the dissolved oxygen (DO) levels in Yamuna are nil since 2018. The DPCC report also pointed out that biochemical oxygen demand (BOD), the minimum oxygen levels required to decompose the chemicals present in the water was ten times the standards in November 2020. The UP forest department also in February last year had the water samples from the sanctuary tested and found that the DO levels at the sanctuary were well below the required norms. The BOD at OBS in February 2020 was 14mg/l while at Okhla barrage it was 58 mg/l in the same month, against the standard limit of 3 mg/l.Spread over 400 hectares, of which 80% is water body formed due to the Okhla barrage build over Yamuna river, the Okhla Bird Sanctuary is home to a number of water and terrestrial birds and is Noida’s only eco-sensitive zone.“There is no source of pollution in the sanctuary. There are about 19 drains in Delhi which release effluents directly into the Yamuna and the pollutants reach here without being treated. Due to this, the wetland’s water is polluted,” said Arvind Mishra, regional forest officer at the sanctuary.Officials of the Delhi irrigation department could not be contacted despite repeated attempts.Stating that healthy bird population is a direct indicator of the habitat health, Delhi-based conservationist Bikram Grewal stated that water quality has direct impact on the bird population.“If the water is polluted due to presence of chemicals, oil, etc., then it will definitely have impact on the avifauna especially the waterbirds. Due to high level of pollution in Yamuna, there are several indicator bird species which are not seen anymore. Now, we don’t see species like skimmer and osprey, which is an eagle that fishes in fresh water, around Delhi,” said Grewal.Environment activist and Manoj Mishra, convener of the Yamuna Jiye Abhiyan, an organisation founded to revive and protect the river and its floodplains, said that Yamuna after Wazirabad in Delhi is “nothing but a lifeless nallah”.“The water that one sees at the Okhla sanctuary is not Yamunua’s water but is sewage being generated from houses and industries of Delhi. Question is how much someone would treat a sewage. The river is anyways lifeless because it still continues to receive untreated sewage and effluents,” said Mishra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/yamuna-pollution-impacting-avifauna-at-okhla-bird-sanctuary-says-noida-forest-department-101614105280998.html
24-02-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad to increase Covid-19 testing by 25%||Ghaziabad: Considering the recent spike in coronavirus (Covid-19) cases in several states and the re-imposition of stricter restrictions, the district health department in Ghaziabad has decided to ramp up Covid-testing by about 25% as a precautionary measure. Officials said they have received directions to ensure quality testing, tracking and contact tracing as part of Covid-19 management.Since last year up to Tuesday, the Ghaziabad district has registered a total of 26,727 Covid-19 cases, as per the state control room figures of February 21. This figure includes 102 deaths and 68 active cases. The testing in the district has seen a decline with a daily average of 2,014 tests conducted up to February so far, 2,433 in January, 3,323 in December, 4,057 in November, 4,065 in October and 3,928 in September. “We have now planned to increase testing by about 25% of our existing average daily testing. The caseload has come down considerably, besides which few people are opting to get tested. Further, we released a number of our lab technicians (from their Covid duties) who then went back to urban primary health centres which were opened for attending to the general public,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer of the district.“As of now, we have about 20 teams available with us for testing and some more lab technicians will be roped in to increase testing by about 25%. We will be able to do this in another week or so. In light of directions from the divisional commissioner (Meerut), we will increase testing as well as take up stricter measures for Covid-19 management,” Dr Gupta added.District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey did not respond to calls. According to the official figures of the state portal provided by the health department, the sample positivity rate in the current month is about 0.33%, with 150 positive cases emerging from a total of 45,417 Covid-19 tests in the month so far.Sample positivity denotes the positive cases which have emerged from the total testing.Likewise, the sample positivity has been running well below the 1% mark since January when it stood at 0.74%. In the past year, the district started with a positivity of 6.94% in the month of March last year, and it spiked to its highest at 19.93% in the month of June.It was 5.92% in September 2020, and thereafter a gradual decline has been seen in subsequent months. Since the first case last year to February 22 of the current year, the overall sample positivity stood at 4.04%, according to official figures, with 29,616 positive reports from 733,940 tests conducted so far.“Although there is no spike or surge being seen in the district as of now, the health department should increase testing to at least 5,000 per day with a wider coverage. They must also test people who are returning from states which are witnessing a spike in cases. Above all, the vaccination should be expedited on a daily basis or at least every alternate day. Otherwise, it will take a long time to administer the vaccine to such a large population,” said Dr Asheesh Agarwal, president of Indian Medical Association – Ghaziabad. Over the issue of vaccination, the Uttar Pradesh government has decided to conduct a final mop-up round on February 25.“Since there has been a spike in cases in several states, we need to take extra precautions. Side by side, our vaccination is going on swiftly with 714,500 healthcare workers having received the first dose and 101,936 of these have taken up the second dose. About 458,234 frontline workers have been given the first dose,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, UP’s additional chief secretary (health). “Now, the final mop-up round will be on February 25 when the left out healthcare and frontline workers can come to get the first dose. If they fail to turn up, they will be moved to the age-appropriate groups under the third category and will have to wait for the vaccine,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-to-increase-covid-19-testing-by-25-101614105221699.html
24-02-2021||Noida||GB Nagar: 2000 health care workers’ names missed in vaccination drive||Around 2,000 health care workers (HCWs) from Gautam Budh Nagar did not find their names on the beneficiary list for the Covid-19 vaccination phase 1 drive from January 16 to February 5.The district administration has now sent their names for an unscheduled special inoculation drive.District magistrate Suhas L Y said that the health department and the Noida chapter of Indian Medical Association (IMA) received reports that several HCWs in private hospitals and other medical institutions did not figure in the phase 1 list. “We have sent a list of names of these people to the government to be included on the Co-WIN portal. Once they are reflected on the portal, we’ll have a special inoculation drive for them,” he said. He said the health department had been asked to find out how the lapse happened. Of the 24,453 HCWs listed for vaccination, 16,863 turned up to get their shot.Dr NK Gupta, the president of IMA-Noida, said that doctors, nurses, paramedics, technical staff and sanitary workers, were among those who did not get a chance to be vaccinated. “Many private hospitals submitted their data late or did not submit it in the right format due to a communication gap. We got at least 25 calls a day on this issue. The private hospitals approached us when names of some of their employees did not figure among the beneficiaries,” he said. GB Nagar chief medical officer Dr Deepak Ohri said, “The state government had restricted editing on the portal from the first day of the vaccination drive. Once the government approves the list we sent, we will get access to the Co-WIN portal and will be able to upload the names.”The central government had developed Co-WIN to track beneficiaries and alert them of their vaccination dates and centres. While phase 1 was devoted to HCWs, phase 2 included frontline workers such as police, paramilitary and district officials too, while phase 3 will have people over 50 and/or those with comorbidities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/gb-nagar-2000-health-care-workers-names-missed-in-vaccination-drive-101614105221114.html
24-02-2021||Noida||Noida cancels allotment of 300 commercial properties due to financial dues||NOIDA: The Noida Authority on Tuesday said it cancelled the allotments of around 700 shops located in the city’s commercial spacesfor not paying rent for the last many years. The Authority chief executive officer (CEO) Ritu Maheshwari directed shops to vacate the space immediately. She directed the authortiy’s accounts department to gather all details and upload it on their website.“We will soon start a drive to evict them and free the government property of those, who are defaulting on the payment of the rents of their respective commercial space in the prime areas across the city,” said Indu Prakash Singh officer on special duty of the Noida authority.Since the 1980s, the authority allotted commercial spaces in multiple sectors on monthly rent. In 2019, the authority audit found pending rent to the tune of ₹100 crore from over 750 establishments. Since then, the authority issued notices to defaulters to pay their dues. Officials said many were yet to comply.“Some approached the Allahabad high court for relief on many grounds. Unless there is a court order, we will evict them. But we are yet to fix a deadline for this,” said Singh.According to the authority, 104 shops in sector 31, 458 in sector 62 and 226 in sector 110 had defaulted.“Our teams will go to the site daily, click a picture to ascertain if these spaces are being used or not. If these are still being used then we will vacate and process of recovery will be started,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-cancels-allotment-of-300-commercial-properties-due-to-financial-dues-101614105161076.html
24-02-2021||Noida||Farmer leader Sardar VM Singh forms new group||Ghaziabad: A new group of farmers has emerged under the banner of Uttar Pradesh Kisan Mazdoor Morcha (UPKMM), which has planned to send five messages every day from each of the villages in the state to the Prime Minister. The new group has come to the fore to change the form of the ongoing farmers’ agitation demanding repeal of three new laws and a new law on minimum support price (MSP), the group’s leaders said. Sardar VM Singh, a prominent farmer leader who heads the Rashtriya Kisan Mazdoor Sangathan, on January 27 decided to withdraw from the UP Gate protest site after incidents of violence were reported in Delhi on Republic Day during the farmers’ rally, the call for which had been given by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha at the Singhu Border. After the incident, however, farmers’ leaders had distanced themselves from the violence, saying that their ranks had been infiltrated by “outsiders”.Then, Singh had said that he will soon come up with another mode of protest to ensure that the demands of the farmers are considered and fulfilled. The UPKMM was formed on February 21, comprising 22 different farmers’ organisations. Singh made public the modalities of the agitation during a press briefing held in Delhi on Tuesday.“I never said that I was withdrawing from the ongoing agitation. The agitation will remain the same, but we are not with anyone whosoever is responsible for the violence. So, we have now changed gears and our demands will be for Uttar Pradesh. If the government has spoken to the farmers earlier, they should hold talks with us for farmers of UP. In fact, we have demanded talks. We have promised that we will have no ‘yes’ or ‘no’ from our side and will hold talks on every clause one by one. Either they make us understand or they understand our point of view,” Singh said. The UPKMM said that there are about 86% small and marginal farmers across the country who have no means to come to Delhi for protests and are also facing issues due to rise in cost of production of their crops. “Each day, five farmers from a village will sit on a relay hunger strike from 9am to 5pm. At 11am, they will be given information on the three new farm laws. At 3pm, every person fasting will record a brief message while giving his introduction to the Prime Minister. This way, the voice of every farmer will reach the PM,” UPKMM said in a statement on Tuesday. The statement said that the relay fast will be for the rollback of three farm laws and a new law on MSP, and will go on till the time every grain of wheat is not purchased on MSP. He said that farmers protesting on various borders will continue their agitation and the UPKMM will continue their agitation as per the new format. “Our protests will start March 1. We have 75 districts in the state and even if we imagine that 500 villages get covered in every district, then you can imagine the number of messages which will be sent to the PM every day from every village. If the PM says that MSP will remain, then we will get the rate of wheat on MSP and will continue to protest till every grain of wheat has been purchased on MSP,” Singh said. The UPKMM has also planned that farmers will collect a handful of grain from every house and will hold a bhandara (community kitchen) every week so that they gel well with each other. They added that besides the relay fast against the centre, farmers in 47 districts of UP will hold simultaneous protests to demand the increase in price of sugarcane which will finally benefit farmers and labourers working in fields.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/farmer-leader-sardar-vm-singh-forms-new-group-101614105100978.html
24-02-2021||Pune||Three officers leading garbage dept exit with health issues||The absence of leadership in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC)’s solid waste management department is adding to the garbage woes of residents. At present, there is no independent officer handling the position of department head at a time when garbage collection and processing has been hampered in the city. Residents in the suburbs have complained of garbage problems at various locations. Due to health issues faced by joint municipal commissioner Dyneshwar Molak, the charge was given to the deputy municipal commissioner Sanjay Gawade. However, he was also admitted to a hospital. Following that, the charge was given to Ajit Deshmukh, and he too was quarantined and hospitalised due to the Covid-19 infection. A total of three civic officers faced hospitalisation after assuming charge of solid waste management, putting the department in a state of array. At present, an additional charge has been given to property tax department head Vilas Kanade. Anti-encroachment department head Madhav Jagtap is also handling garbage issues. Earlier, Suresh Jagtap was independently handling the solid waste department. Last year, he was appointed as the additional municipal commissioner. Currently, no officer is willing to take an independent charge of solid waste management. It is one of the most important but despised departments in the civic body. The garbage generation has increased after merging 11 villages into the PMC. At present, the city generates around 2,100 tonnes of garbage per day. In Wadgaonsheri, Viman nagar, Kharadi, Kondhwa, Vadgaon budruk area, Hadapsar, the garbage is piling on the roadside. Dr Kunal Khemanr, additional municipal commissioner said, “It is true that work has hampered but the garbage has not piled up. At present, we have given an additional charge to Vilas Kanade. Deshmukh will soon resume work in the solid waste department.” Pune generates around 2,100 tonnes of solid waste per day. Of that, the civic body has the capacity to process around 1,500 tons of garbage at different processing plants. The remainder of the garbage is kept in the Ramtekdi area for segregation and further processing. As per the solid waste department’s information, the civic body collects garbage with the help of 160 trucks. There are 563 containers and 116 compactor buckets dispersed around Pune city. The ward wise average is 350 to 750 gms per capita per day. The construction and demolition waste generation are around 150-180 tonnes per day. The garden waste generation is around 50-60 tonnes per day whereas the biomedical waste is around five to six tonnes per day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/absence-of-leadership-at-pmc-solid-waste-department-results-in-garbage-piling-101614104621527.html
24-02-2021||Pune||Woman killed in fire at cloth store in Pune||A woman was killed in a fire at a cloth shop in Pradhikaran, Akurdi in the early morning hours of Tuesday. The shop located in Sarda plot was completely gutted in fire, according to fire brigade officials. The deceased woman was identified Bharati Nandlal Sarda (68), she was residing on a floor above the cloth shop that she owned, according to fire officials. “We received a call from a neighbourhood resident called Digvijay Shelke at 3:10am. The shop is located behind Mhalsakant school in Jaihind chowk in Pradhiaran, Akurdi,” said an official of Pradhikaran fire division of Pimpri-Chinchwad fire brigade. While the fire brigade officials cannot confirm the source of the fire, the suspicion based on the starting point of the fire was that the fire may have started because of a short circuit. Three fire units one each from Bajaj, Pradhikaran, and Sant Tukaramnagar divisions were rushed to the spot. A team of 15 people worked for around two hours to completely douse and cool down the area. Sub fire officer Suryakant Matpati was leading the operation. The body was then handed over to Pimpri-Chinchwad police who took it for post-mortem. A case of accidental death was registered by the local police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/woman-killed-in-fire-at-cloth-store-in-pune-101614104501973.html
24-02-2021||Delhi||New push for plan to rid Minto Bridge of flooding||The Delhi government’s plan to develop an independent drainage system under the Minto Road railway bridge, which inundates almost every time the city is battered by a spell of heavy rain, has been delayed by at least six months, senior officials involved in the project said on Tuesday.The plan has been delayed because at least two tenders floated by the public works department (PWD) to appoint a consultant for the project received a poor response, forcing the agency to call for fresh bids this month.The Minto bridge underpass lies at the key traffic junction of Deen Dayal Upadhyay (DDU) Marg and Swami Vivekananda Marg (formerly Minto Road) and leads to Connaught Place on one side and New Delhi station, Old Delhi and Daryaganj on the other.In July last year, water-logging under the Minto bridge claimed the life of a 56-year-old man whose van got stuck in the flooded underpass. In July 2018, when two Delhi transport corporation (DTC) buses were submerged in the flooded underpass and 10 people had to be rescued, the Delhi high court directed all agencies concerned to coordinate efforts and prepare a plan to prevent such instances in the future. However, a lasting solution is still elusive. Every monsoon, the government deploys high-power pumps in the area to clear rain water.According to a senior PWD official, the existing drainage system, a deep barrel drain, on the stretch was constructed during the British-era.“The road stretch that falls under the Minto bridge does not have separate sewage and rainwater drains, unlike most areas in Delhi.A deep barrel drain here doubles up as a sewage and stormwater drain and leads directly to the Yamuna river. Usually, the sewage first flows to a treatment plant before being discharged into the river and the rainwater drains or stormwater drains empties in the river directly,” said the official.A second official in the department said the problem has been aggravated by the increase in the volume of sewage over the years because of which even during light rains, the Minto bridge underpass is deluged.If this third tender is successful, the appointed consultant will have to submit the detailed project report (DPR) in three months and will have to provide consultancy service for six months during the execution of the project, stated the tender document seen by HT. The consultant will also have to conduct a topographical survey and do a feasibility study.“The department floated the first tender for the project on September 21 last year. But, we received only one bidder. The second tender, floated around two months later also met a similar fate. Now, we have floated a fresh e-tender to appoint a consultant who will conduct a feasibility study and prepare a detailed project report (DPR),” said a senior PWD official on condition of anonymity.“Waterlogging under the Minto Road railway bridge is an almost inevitable monsoon event in the capital. The problem lies in the natural gradient of the land, the heritage bridge that cannot be easily re-engineered, and the larger issue of Delhi’s choked and dysfunctional drainage system. Accordingly, PWD is looking for a modified water drainage system at Minto road during monsoon,” read the tender document.It further stated that due to low lying areas near Minto road the problem of water logging is persistent during monsoon. “However, since a few years the water-logging problem has increased. PWD wants to do a conditional assessment study of the existing drainage system near Minto road to take further actions to improve the water-logging problem,” the department said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/plan-to-stop-waterlogging-under-minto-bridge-delayed-govt-to-float-new-tender-this-month-101614104201953.html
24-02-2021||Delhi||All parties agree to support proposal to save new Chandni Chowk Hanuman temple||All political parties in the North Delhi Municipal Corporation on Tuesday came to a consensus to “support” a proposal to grant legal status to a makeshift structure that has come up in place of a recently-demolished Hanuman temple on the central verge of main Chandni Chowk road.The decision was taken in an all-party meeting called by north corporation mayor Jai Prakash on Tuesday.The original temple was demolished by the north civic body on January 3 on Delhi high court orders as it fell in the course of the redevelopment work. The makeshift structure was set up by locals on the central verge of the main road in Chandni Chowk on Thursday.Also Read | North MCD to pass a proposal for legal tag to makeshift temple in Chandni ChowkThe proposal to grant legal status will be brought in the house meeting on Thursday and then sent to the Delhi government for final approval before implementation.Prakash said, “The consensus to save the makeshift Hanuman temple was agreed to at the joint meeting. We all agreed to support the decision with a positive mind. Being in majority, we could have passed the proposal on our own, but we want to take everyone on board. We will send the proposal to the Delhi government and also to the religious committee for the final nod, so that legal status can be granted to the temple.”Although the opposition parties supported the cause, but they also blamed BJP–ruled civic body for not taking their consensus before filing an affidavit in the high court, which could have saved the structure could have been saved.Vikas Goel, leader of Opposition in the north corporation, said that the Aam Aadmi Party supports the decision to pass a proposal for saving the makeshift structure in Chandni Chowk but the civic agency, if wanted, could have also saved the original temple from demolition.“We have always been in support of saving the temple, but it was the north municipality that demolished it. The BJP is just doing politics on the temple issue. Rather than filing an affidavit in court, they could have given justification for not demolishing the structure,” he said.Mukesh Goel, senior Congress leader and councillor, who also attended the meeting, said that his party was in support of the proposal to save the temple.“We also want new structure to remain at the place it has come up. It is anyway not encroaching upon the main road. However, the BJP, if they wanted, could have saved the original temple from demolition.Meanwhile, vice president of Delhi Congress Mudit Aggrawal also wrote a letter to the lieutenant governor and requested him to grant legal status to the makeshift temple for the sake of the faith of residents of Chandni Chowk.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/all-parties-agree-to-support-proposal-to-save-new-chandni-chowk-hanuman-temple-101614104200711.html
24-02-2021||Delhi||SC panel to meet today to decide fate of trees that face axe in Metro expansion||After a petition before the high court sought a change in the alignment of Metro Phase 4, to save over 11,000 trees that may otherwise be felled, the Central Empowered Committee (CEC), set up by the Supreme Court, has called a virtual meeting of all stakeholders on Wednesday to hear the petitioners’ grievances.In a petition before the Delhi high court, it was submitted that for the construction of three of DMRC corridors —Janakpuri-RK Ashram, Maujpur-Majlis Park and Aerocity-Tughlakabad—the Metro had sought permission to cut 11,454 trees.On February 11, the high court asked the CEC to “consider as representation” the plea, which contended that felling over 11,000 trees for the Metro construction would have an adverse effect on the ambient air quality of the national capital, where pollution is already at critical levels. The petitioners also sought a change in alignment of Metro Phase 4, from above ground to underground.In a notice issued on February 15, CEC member secretary had called the Delhi chief secretary, principal chief conservator forests (PCCF), public works department (PWD) engineer-in-chief, Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) member secretary, as well as representatives of the Union ministry of environment forests and climate change (MoEFCC) and ministry of housing and urban affairs, to hear the grievance of petitioners.The CEC on Wednesday will also look into DMRC’s request for permission to divert forest land under the Forest Conservation Act (1980), for the construction of the upcoming corridors under Phase 4.“The copies of all relevant documents may be emailed to CEC in advance with a copy to all parties concerned. The petitioner and respondents may join the meeting with the identity of participant/user agency name,” the notice for virtual meeting read.Last year, the DMRC had run into trouble with the Delhi forest department for carrying out digging work on the stretch between Vikaspuri and Peeragarhi Chowk, which was marked as a deemed forest land without due permissions. The forest department had issued a restraining order to the DMRC asking it to stop all construction on the stretch till the required permissions were granted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/11000-trees-face-the-axe-for-dmrc-phase-4-sc-panel-to-hold-meeting-of-stakeholders-today-101614104142545.html
24-02-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt sets up advisory board to implement disability rights act||The Delhi government has set up a state advisory board on disability to assist the government departments in the implementation of the Rights of Persons with Disability Act, 2016.The 45-member board will be chaired by the social welfare minister and will play a key role in addressing problems faced by persons with disability and making the city disabled-friendly.Apart from principal secretaries of departments such as health, education, employment, public works etc, the government has nominated AAP MLAs Praveen Kumar, SK Bagga and Sharad Kumar as members of the board.The board will make suggestions to departments to develop accessible infrastructure or address issues faced by persons with disability, while availing of medical treatment, education and employment, among others.With 14 new disabilities being recognised under the new Act, disability rights activists say a lot of people faced problems in getting disability certificates until last year.Social welfare minister Rajendra Pal Gautam said, “The advisory board will help in addressing the concerns of people with disabilities. The number of disabilities covered under the Act has increased from seven to 21. The board will assist in preparing comprehensive guidelines for smooth implantation of the Act, inclusive education, and address issues related to certification. We will soon have a board meeting.”Delhi is now among the few states and union territories such as Mizoram, Goa and Chandigarh to have a state advisory board on disability.Disability rights activists say the demand for the advisory board, which is mandated as per the Act, has been a long-standing one. There have been a lot of issues concerning people with disabilities ever since the new Act came into force.Dr Satendra Singh, professor at University College of Medical Sciences (UCMS), said, “It is good that the government has constituted the board, as there are a lot of issues that need to be addressed. A lot of people, especially those with disabilities that have now been added to the list, faced difficulty in getting certificates. They also faced a lot of problems during the pandemic, especially the lockdown. There was no state commissioner for disability in Delhi for months. These issues could have been taken up by the advisory board had it been there.”Preeti Mohan, founder trustee and CEO of Silver Linings, a non-profit organisation working for blind people, has been appointed as a member of the board. Mohan, who is visually impaired, said, “There is a need to provide equal opportunity to people with disabilities and for that, inclusive schooling is essential. With the help of technology, we can make it possible for children with disabilities.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-sets-up-advisory-board-to-implement-disability-rights-act-101614104142000.html
24-02-2021||Delhi||Schools, parents split over in-person exams||How best to conduct exams this year, is the question that is vexing both private schools and parents in the national capital with neither party agreeing with the other.While parents students of classes 9 and 11 are reluctant to send their children to school for their annual examination and want exams to be held remotely, schools are advocating in-person examinations, terming them more “reliable” and in accordance with the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) directions.The CBSE, on February 11, directed all its affiliated schools to conduct annual examinations of classes 9 and 11 in the offline mode, after taking all Covid-19 related precautions. But parents are not for it. They would rather that the exams be held online, so that children can take them remotely, without fear of infectionOn Tuesday, a group of 30 to 40 parents and students gathered outside KR Mangalam World School in Greater Kailash-2, protesting against the school’s decision to conduct in-person examinations for these classes, even though it had already conducted the exams online. “The school has conducted exams online before the CBSE directions came. Now, the school is asking us to send our children for in-person exams. Why should our children appear in exams again risking their safety? said a parent of a class 11 student.When contacted, school director Jyoti Gupta said, “The school is following the CBSE directions and not taking any decision on its own. The major issue right now is that students are out of practice when it comes to writing for three hours. They have been attending online classes and appearing in exams in the online mode throughout the year. Taking all this into consideration, the school has also decided to give 50-50 weightage to both offline and online exams. If parents still have objections, then we can’t help it. We have no means to proctor the online exams.”Some schools have decided to give an option of online exams after receiving requests from parents but, simultaneously announced incentives to those who will choose the in-person mode. For instance, Bal Bharti Public School in Pitampura has decided to give additional 10% marks per subject to such students. “We released a Google form to ask the preference of students and their parents and 70% of them have opted for the online mode. But the school has given an open offer since in-person exams are more challenging this year -- students have not taken any such exam throughout the year,” school principal Meenu Goswami said.The Indian School in Sadiq Nagar has given parents a choice between date lines for offline exams. School principal Tania Joshi said, “Many of the parents are still not in favour of offline exams, but they simply cannot rely on online exams either. We have given them two date options -- children can appear in offline exams either in March or in April.”Delhi parents’ association, on Monday, wrote to chief minister Arvind Kejriwal requesting the government to intervene. “At a time when coronavirus cases are rising in several states and there is a fear of a second wave across the country, what is the point of offline exams? In some cities, the administration has ordered schools shut again in view of rising Covid-19 cases,” said Aprajita Gautam, president of the association.Recently, Pune administration ordered all schools shut till February 28 after Covid-19 cases increased again in the city. In Mumbai, where schools have been physically closed since March last year, the state board is yet to take a decision on the mode of conducting exams.A senior Delhi government official, who wished not to be named, said, “The Delhi government has already instructed all its schools to conduct exams in the offline mode, in pursuance to CBSE directions. The mid-term exams for classes 9 and 11 will start from March 20 in government schools. The government doesn’t come into the picture when the CBSE issues directions to its affiliated schools. Schools are bound to follow the CBSE directions.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/online-or-offline-parents-schools-disagree-on-mode-of-exam-for-classes-9-and-11-101614104080805.html
24-02-2021||City||In last budget before elections, Tamil Nadu blames Centre for fall in revenue||Tamil Nadu’s deputy chief minister and state finance minister, O Panneerselvam, on Tuesday presented a revenue deficit interim budget that blamed the Central government for the fall in revenue and talked up the achievements of the government over the past five years.This is the last budget of AIADMK led state government as the state heads for assembly polls in April- May. The party has partnered with the Bharatiya Janata Party, which leads the Union government to contest the election.Tamil Nadu’s debt was ₹4.87 lakh crore as on March 31, 2020. Since the state was affected due to the Covid-19 pandemic, this is likely to go up to ₹5.7 lakh crore by the end of March 31. State finance secretary S Krishnan in a post-budget conference said that the debt is within permissible limits.Also Read: India hasn’t changed its mind on Chinese investment, will make no exceptionsPanneerselvam’s ruling AIADMK blamed the central government led by their ally the BJP for delaying payments to the state. The deputy CM also said that the share of central taxes for Tamil Nadu which was ₹32,849.34 crore in 2020-21’s budget has been reduced to ₹23,039.46 crore in the revised estimates 2020-21. To be sure, revenue suffered in the course of the current fiscal year on account of the Covid-19 pandemic.Panneerselvam cited the 15th Finance Commission’s report which noted that there is an increasing trend of levying cesses and surcharges by the Central Government which grew from 10.4% in 2011-12 to 20.3% in the received estimates 2019-20. He said the cesses do not form part of the divisible pool of taxes.The commission “has not made any categorical recommendation of merging cesses and surcharges in the basic rate of tax or of including them in the divisible pool as demanded by the many states including Tamil Nadu, which is very disappointing,” Panneerselvam said, reiterating his appeal.The finance minister also specified that the Commission has recommended state-specific grants of ₹4,784 crore as performance-based incentives to Tamil Nadu for specific sectors including health, education, judiciary and statistics. Following Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s union budget presentation on the same, he urged the centre “not to utilise the 15th Finance Commission recommended grants to substitute their share of funding for Central Sector and Centrally Sponsored Schemes. This would be a major deviation from past practice.”He said that he ‘personally urged’ Sitharaman in the pre-Budget meeting held on January 18 that all cesses and surcharges should be merged with the basic rate of tax “so that the states receive their due share as devolution from the central taxes.” Chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami also raised the issue with the centre. “Despite this...the agricultural infrastructure development cess has been levied by further reducing the basic excise duty on petrol and diesel.”In a budget speech that ran for more than two hours, Panneerselvam reiterated his government’s achievements, proposals and projects and announced new ones. Computer science will be taught to students from class 6 to 10, he said. School education has been sanctioned ₹34,181 crore in 2021-22. ₹13,352 crore was spent to bring Covid-19 under control, the minister said. The state has allocated ₹19,420 crore for health. Tamil Nadu is expected to register a positive growth rate of 2.02% against India’s negative growth rate of 7.7% in 2020-21, Panneerselvam said.Following the chief minister’s announcement in the assembly in February, farm loans worth ₹12,110 crore owed to co-operative banks by 16,43,347 farmers were waived. A provision of ₹5,000 crore was announced for the scheme. “It is ambiguous if they will clear all loans,” added Maalan Narayanan. “Though it was meant to be a vote on account, the budget has initiated new projects. This is improper; what if the government doesn’t return. What happens to these works?”Panneerselvam expressed confidence in the house that the government will return. “Tamil Nadu’s people will trust only a government headed by Edappadi Palaniswami,” he said in his concluding remarks.DMK and Congress MLAs walked out after the speaker did not allow them permission to raise issues at the start of the budget speech. Tamimun Ansari of Manithaneya Jananayaga Katchi (MJK) cycled his way to the budget session condemning the fuel price rise. “Before the election, knowing that work cannot be finished, they have floated tenders worth ₹40,000 crore and emptied state coffers,” the DMK’s Duraimurugan told reporters. The assembly will reconvene next on February 25 until February 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/in-term-s-last-budget-aiadmk-complains-of-reduced-share-from-centre-101614097529862.html
24-02-2021||Pune||Civic Sanskriti: Why groundwater is an invisible, but crucial resource||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has taken up a unique project to revive a water percolation pond in Handewadi, in southeast Pune. This spot is right at the gate of the Dada Gujar Madhyamik Vidyalaya. The pond itself was perhaps made as a village tank several decades ago with support from Dada Gujar. The pond revival and redesign is being done by PMC with technical advice from ACWADAM, and participation of Mission Groundwater, a civil society initiative. Rainwater from Handewadi flows into this percolation pond. Two newly constructed filtration pits will screen out leaves and rubbish flowing in with the rainwater. In addition, three small springs bring water naturally percolating in the surrounding area into the pond. Two recharge shafts are constructed to direct the pond water into the aquifer below, that is rock layers with numerous cracks and air bubbles that retain water. The project is expected to be ready before the monsoon this year, as informed by PMC engineer Shramik Shevte, who took the initiative for the project. The recharged groundwater is likely to benefit several housing societies and commercial enterprises with borewells using water from this aquifer. Managing groundwater in cities Percolation tanks and recharge pits are common in watershed development projects across rural India. However, cities too need to take up watershed and groundwater management in a scientific, systematic manner, and quite urgently for many reasons. First, the increasing population in Pune directly increases the demand for water. Thousands of housing societies have borewells. Dr Himanhsu Kulkarni, director of ACWADAM, estimates that nearly 20% of Pune’s water needs are met by groundwater. Though PMC’s 24x7 water supply project is expected to distribute water more equally across the city through new pipelines which will also curb leakages, the dependence on groundwater may not go away. Second, erratic rains are common with climate change and we might not get enough of rain in some years. Dam water stocks may not be enough in drought years. Third, climate change may also lead to heavy rains and without appropriate physical structures. Floodwaters can cause damage as well as just run off very rapidly without much percolation. Instead, with stream restoration and groundwater recharge structures created, floodwater run-off speed can be reduced and percolation increased. Fourth, a more just approach is needed than bringing water from further and further away, such as in the Bhama Askhed project. Increasing urban demands can deprive farming and other rural communities of their water resources. Pune should wisely manage the water it draws from the existing dams as well as the resource it is literally sitting upon – groundwater. Improved groundwater management requires good information about the resource, as well as appropriate rules and programmes for groundwater recharge and use. Unlike rivers and streams that are visible in the cityscape, extensive studies are needed to map underground aquifers. Studies show that Pune’s current plot-based rainwater harvesting voluntary programme should change to a comprehensive area-based approach. Protecting open vegetated areas like Bavdhan and Vetal tekdi, which are natural recharge zones, should be a priority. Recharge structures should be set up at places where the rock structure is such that it would hold water, as in Handewadi. Further, the concretisation of streams and nallahs should stop. Corporators sometimes promote nallah concretisation mistakenly believing it helps the neighbourhood. In fact, concretisation is more likely to cause flash floods and reduce groundwater recharge. Instead, discretionary funds could be used to restore nallahs as natural streams. We also need new rules to govern use of groundwater in cities. The Handewadi project should spur a larger public initiative on groundwater in Pune. The government, technical agencies like the Central Ground Water Board and GSDA, experts like ACWADAM, and the public will need to collaborate, deliberate and innovate to develop sustainable, participatory groundwater management in Pune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/civic-sanskriti-why-groundwater-is-an-invisible-but-crucial-resource-101614065195498.html
24-02-2021||Delhi||How riots and the pandemic tore apart the lives of children of north-east Delhi||Mohammad Kaif was preparing for his class 12 exams last February when communal riots broke out in north-east Delhi, where he lived with his family. Overnight, the 19-year-old had to forget all about exams as he and his family were forced to flee for their lives, to their village in Uttar Pradesh.Kaif, a resident of Mustafabad, aspired to become a doctor until last year. “We fled to our village the same day our neighbour was killed by a mob. Later, my family did not allow me to return to Delhi, to appear for the exams in the first week of March 2020. Then, before we could even think of returning to discuss my case with the school, a nationwide lockdown was announced. My entire year got ruined. I finally completed my class 12 this month through distance learning mode.”A year after the violence, Kaif is uncertain about his future. “Things have changed in the past one year. I could not study properly due to the circumstances. My father is also not keeping well. His work — he rents out bulldozers — was severely hit by the violence and then the pandemic. There is so much uncertainty around; I’m thinking of doing a course in the distance learning mode this year,” he said.Also Read | Multiple strands, piles of evidence: Inside the Delhi riots probeAs many as 53 people were killed and more than 400 injured in the riots that broke out in parts of north-east Delhi on February 23, 2020. Police have registered 755 cases related to the communal violence that was allegedly triggered by protests over the Citizenship (Amendment) Act.Like Kaif, hundreds of children in these parts are struggling to string together their lives interrupted by violence, even a year after the riots.Apart from seeing their neighbourhoods and schools laid to waste by rioters, many of them also lost their loved ones — including their parents — to the violence. Several children said they could not focus on their studies throughout the year.Arsh Malik, 18, a resident of Yamuna Vihar, failed in two subjects in the class 12 exams. “My tuition centre was set afire by rioters at a time when my exams were on. Several people, I knew died in the violence or were injured. Those were disturbing times. I could not study well for the exams that happened a week after the riots. Now, I’m thinking of enrolling in the distance learning mode,” he said.The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) had to postpone several exams for both classes 10 and 12 after the violence broke out. The board resumed exams from March 2 onwards, but it could not conduct the postponed exams as by then, the Covid-19 pandemic had hit the city. Students were finally promoted last year on the basis of alternative assessment schemes.A 2005 UNICEF report on “Childhood Under Threat” said children are among the first and worst affected by conflict, whether directly or indirectly. Even if they are not killed or injured, they can be left with deep emotional scars and trauma from direct exposure to the violence or from dislocation, poverty, or the loss of loved ones, said the report.Also Read | Man held over death of constable during Delhi riots granted bailIqra, a class 11 student who lost her two brothers, Amir Khan (30) and Hashim Ali (19), in the riots, said, “People have started referring to us as ‘that family that lost two sons in the danga (riots)’. That has become our identity now. I am glad that my class 10 exams were cancelled, and we were promoted; otherwise, I would have failed. How do you concentrate on studies with so much tension around?”For the riot-hit children, the Covid-enforced lockdown was another bolt from the blue. Anjum, whose Khajuri Khas house was burned down by a mob, said, “We were left with nothing; not even a piece of cloth. We also lost the only smartphone we had and there was no way for any of us – myself or my siblings – to attend online classes. We could only resume studies in October after a person donated us a mobile phone.”Neetu Chaudhary, an official at the Arun Modern School in Brijpuri, one of the four schools that were attacked and damaged in the violence, said their student strength reduced by nearly 40%, post the riots and the Covid-enforced lockdown.“It took us months to bring back our school to its former status — the construction work is still going on. Now that the school has reopened for classes 9 to 12, we have another task at hand - instilling confidence in parents. We had to request the police to deploy some personnel during school hours so that their fears are allayed,” she said.Officials at the other three schools affected by the violence — DRP Convent Public School, Victoria Senior Secondary School, and Rajdhani School — said a large number of their students were yet to return to school. Farooq Ahmed Nawab, whose family owns both Rajdhani and Victoria schools, said, “The student strength has reduced by almost half in both of schools in the past one year. We are struggling to even manage the operational costs.”Also Read | Delhi riots: Police seeks report on plea seeking FIR against Kapil MishraParents and family members of children in riot-hit areas said the violence has left them traumatised and they are unable to shake it off. Imrana (32), who lost her husband to the firing in Subhash Mohalla during the riots, said her two children are now highly irritable and stubborn.“Even today, loud noises scare them and they get angry over the smallest of things. Being a single parent has been challenging as I have to discipline them, while still being mindful of the trauma they’ve been through,” she said.Fifteen-year-old Shifa Naaz, a class 10 student in old Mustafabad and the eldest of eight siblings, lost her father Mudassir Khan (30) to the riots. The loss has scarred her siblings more, she says. “My younger sister (12) refused to even see our father’s body for the last time. Since then, she has become highly irritable. The younger ones often dream of our father and cry. It is difficult to see them like that. Managing finances has also been challenging for our mother. Every day, I feel emptier and weak,” the 15-year-old said.Experts said a timely intervention is required to bring these children out of their trauma. Nimesh Desai, director of the Institute of Human Behaviour and Allied Sciences (IBHAS), said the riots, followed by the lockdown, might have led to “conduct disorder” among children. “Conduct disorder is identified by emotional as well as behavioural disturbances. It’s very important that these children are given a chance to express themselves. For kids above 8 years of age, the verbal expression is still easier but for those below that age, verbalising their trauma is a challenge. So, intervention by NGOs, child rights bodies, families, and schools is essential,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/how-riots-and-the-pandemic-tore-apart-the-lives-of-children-of-north-east-delhi-101614057335291.html
24-02-2021||World||Congress weighs reforms to troubled US Postal Service over finance woes||A U.S. House of Representatives committee heard testimony on Wednesday from Postmaster General Louis DeJoy and other officials who urged lawmakers and President Joe Biden to consider significant reforms to tackle the U.S. Postal Service's precarious finances."Our dire financial trajectory, operational and network misalignment to mail trends, outdated pricing, infrastructure underinvestment, inadequate people engagement, and an insufficient growth strategy – all demand immediate action," DeJoy told lawmakers.DeJoy, a supporter of former President Donald Trump appointed to head the Postal Service last year, suspended operational changes in August after heavy criticism over postal delays. He plans to release a new 10-year strategic "break-even" plan soon.Delays in paychecks and other mail deliveries by the Postal Service, or USPS, gained attention this summer as a record number of voters mailed in ballots to elect a new president.House Oversight and Government Reform Committee Chairwoman Carolyn Maloney made the case for action as the USPS faces shrinking volumes of first-class mail, increased costs of employee compensation and benefit, and higher unfunded liabilities and debt.New Postal Board chairman Ron Bloom, who noted that the USPS is currently projected to lose $160 billion over the next decade, told lawmakers "we can’t just throw money at the problem. We must address the systemic issues plaguing its outdated model."The USPS reported net losses of $86.7 billion from 2007 through 2020. One reason is 2006 legislation mandating that it pre-fund more than $120 billion in retiree health care and pension liabilities, a requirement labor unions have called an unfair burden not shared by other businesses.Maloney has circulated draft legislation on some USPS financial issues, such as eliminating a requirement to pre-fund retiree health benefits and require postal employees to enroll in government-retiree health plan Medicare, for a saving of $40 to $50 billion over 10 years. "The Postal Service is facing a dire financial situation that requires us to act," she said.DeJoy said the reform bill alone "doesn't solve the problem."Bloom said the USPS will ask the Biden administration to calculate pension obligations "using modern actuarial principles" that would save another $12 billion.Mark Dimondstein, president of the American Postal Workers Union, urged Congress to award the USPS an additional $15 billion and called for a separate "modernization grant" of $25 billion.In December, Congress converted a $10 billion U.S. Treasury loan to the USPS into a grant.Some Democrats want Biden to fire the current postal board. There are three vacancies on the board that the White House has promised to soon fill.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/congress-weighs-reforms-to-troubled-us-postal-service-over-finance-woes-101614189627359.html
24-02-2021||World||EU mulls vaccination passports to resurrect tourism after Covid-19||European Union leaders will agree on Thursday to work on certificates of vaccination for EU citizens who have had an anti-Covid shot, with southern EU countries that depend heavily on tourism desperate to rescue this summer's holiday season.Lockdowns to slow the pandemic caused the deepest ever economic recession in the 27-nation bloc last year, hitting the south of the EU, where economies are often much more dependent on visitors, disproportionately hard.With the rollout of vaccines against Covid-19 now gathering pace, some governments, like those of Greece and Spain, are pushing for a quick adoption of an EU-wide certificate for those already inoculated so that people can travel again.However, other countries, such as France and Germany, appear more reluctant, as officials there say it could create de facto vaccination obligation and would be discriminatory to those who cannot or will not take a jab.France, where anti-vaccine sentiment is particularly strong and where the government has pledged not to make them compulsory, considers the idea of vaccine passports as "premature", a French official said on Wednesday.Work is needed on the details, including whether it should be in digital form, be accepted globally and at what stage of the two-step inoculation process it should be issued."We call for work to continue on a common approach to vaccination certificates," a draft statement of the leaders video-conference seen by Reuters said, without setting a time-frame for a result.Officials said the EU was working with the International Air Transport Association, which is keen to revive air travel, and with the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development and the World Health Organization.But travel with certificates also raised legal questions, officials said, because those last in line for vaccinations could argue their freedom of movement was unjustly restricted by the often months-long queues.EU officials also point out there is no guidance yet from the WHO and EU agencies whether people who have received two shots of the Covid-19 vaccine can still carry the coronavirus and infect others, even if no longer vulnerable themselves.It was also not clear if people could be infectious having already fought off the coronavirus themselves, for how long they remained immune and if they too should get certificates."There are still many things we don't know," a senior official from one of the EU countries said. "We need more time to come to a common line."But time is short for countries in the south, where the hospitality sector needs to know what it should prepare for in the coming months. Despite the official stance that all EU governments want to solve the issue together, some might decide to move faster individually.Earlier in February, Greece and Israel signed a deal to ease travel restrictions to Greece for Israelis with proof of Covid-19 vaccination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/eu-mulls-vaccination-passports-to-resurrect-tourism-after-covid19-101614187509631.html
24-02-2021||World||J&J’s Covid-19 vaccine closes in on FDA’s nod||The US drugs regulator has virtually cleared the path for a third Covid-19 vaccine, confirming the efficacy and safety of the Johnson & Johnson shot on Wednesday.J&J’s one-shot vaccine c ould join Pfizer and Moderna’s shots as early as this week in the battle against a pandemic that has killed more than half a million people in the United States, a grim milestone crossed earlier this week.An advisory committee of experts appointed by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) will meet on Friday to evaluate the findings and grant emergency use authorisation.According to papers submitted by Johnson & Johnson to the FDA seeking emergency use go-ahead, the vaccine has demonstrated an overall efficacy level of 66% - 72% in the United States and 57% in South Africa, a country that is dealing with a highly contagious strain of the coronavirus.The vaccination was more effective, at 86%, against severe forms of Covid-19 in the United States, and 82% against severe disease in South Africa, reducing the risk of hospitalisation and death among those inoculated.Unlike Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna’s jabs, Johnson & Johnson’s one is a one-shot vaccine. It’s also known to be easier to store - it can be kept in refrigeration for three months - and transport. The vaccine does not require extremely cold conditions, which the Pfizer vaccine needs.The Johnson & Johnson vaccine was tried out on more than 44,000 people, aged 18 and older, in multiple countries. The company applied for emergency use authorisation on February 4.The pharma giant expects to roll out millions of doses of its vaccine the next week, pending authorisation, but it is likely to fall short of the expected 10 million by February end. “We will have 20 million doses of the vaccine to be made available by the end of March and we’re prepared to ship, immediately upon emergency use authorisation, nearly 4 million doses of our vaccine, Richard Nettles, the company subsidiary Janssen’s vice-president of medical affairs, said on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/jjs-covid-19-vaccine-closes-in-on-fda-s-nod-101614188208095.html
24-02-2021||World||PNB scam case: UK judge to rule on Nirav Modi extradition case on Thursday||Wanted diamond merchant Nirav Modi, who remains behind bars in a London prison as he contests his extradition to India on charges of fraud and money laundering in the estimated USD 2-billion Punjab National Bank (PNB) scam case, will find out the UK court's ruling in the nearly two-year-long legal battle on Thursday.The 49-year-old is expected to appear via videolink from Wandsworth Prison in south-west London at Westminster Magistrates’ Court, where District Judge Samuel Goozee is set to hand down his judgment on whether the jeweller has a case to answer before the Indian courts.The magistrates’ court ruling will then be sent back to UK Home Secretary Priti Patel for a sign off, with the possibility of appeals in the High Court on either side depending on the outcome.Modi was arrested on an extradition warrant on March 19, 2019, and has appeared via videolink from Wandsworth Prison for a series of court hearings in the extradition case. His multiple attempts at seeking bail have been repeatedly turned down, both at the Magistrates’ and High Court level, as he was deemed a flight risk.He is the subject of two sets of criminal proceedings, with the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) case relating to a large-scale fraud upon PNB through the fraudulent obtaining of letters of undertaking (LoUs) or loan agreements, and the Enforcement Directorate (ED) case relating to the laundering of the proceeds of that fraud.He also faces two additional charges of "causing the disappearance of evidence" and intimidating witnesses or "criminal intimidation to cause death”, which were added on to the CBI case.The Crown Prosecution Service (CPS), arguing on behalf of the Indian government, has sought to establish a prima facie case against him and also to establish that there are no human rights issues blocking his extradition to India. CPS barrister Helen Malcolm has argued that the jeweller presided over a "ponzi-like scheme where new LoUs were used to repay old ones".A ponzi scheme typically refers to an investment scam which generates funds for earlier investors with money taken from later investors and the CPS has claimed that Modi used his firms – Diamonds R Us, Solar Exports and Stellar Diamonds – to make fraudulent use of PNB’s LoUs in a conspiracy with banking officials.They have also played videos in court as proof of Modi's involvement in intimidating dummy officers of his companies to remain out of the reach of Indian investigating authorities.Modi's defence team, led by barrister Clare Montgomery, has claimed that the entire issue is a commercial dispute involving "authorised though ill-advised lending" that took place in "broad daylight". It is also claimed that none of his actions meet the legal threshold of perverting the course of justice or amounted to fraud.Besides, the defence has also relied on arguments around Modi’s precarious mental health condition, as someone who has a family history of depression and suicide.During a series of hearings in the course of the extradition case last year and early this year, Westminster Magistrates Court has also heard detailed arguments from both sides about why Modi's "deteriorating" mental health condition does or does not meet the Section 91 threshold of the Extradition Act 2003 – which was most recently been used in the UK to block the extradition of Wikileaks Founder Julian Assange on the grounds of it being "unjust and oppressive" as he is a high suicide risk.The CPS has challenged the defence stance and had called for an independent evaluation of medical records by a consultant psychiatrist for appropriate assurances to be acquired by the authorities in terms of his care in India.Prison conditions at Barrack 12 in Arthur Road Jail in Mumbai, where Modi is to be held, have also been in focus as the Indian government submitted an updated video recording of the cell to highlight that it meets all human rights requirements of natural light and ventilation.Modi’s legal battle marks one of a number of high-profile extradition cases involving accused Indian economic offenders in the UK. While former Kingfisher Airlines boss Vijay Mallya remains on bail as a "confidential" matter related to his extradition to India is resolved, accused arms dealer Sanjay Bhandari’s extradition case is scheduled for its next hearing in April.In February 2020, wanted cricket bookie Sanjeev Chawla was extradited to face charges in India and became the first extradition of its kind under the India-UK Extradition Treaty, signed in 1992.A previous extradition of Samirbhai Vinubhai Patel, wanted in connection with the Godhra riots in Gujarat, from the UK to India in October 2016 had been uncontested and therefore did not have to go through various levels of appeals in the UK courts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pnb-scam-case-uk-judge-to-rule-on-nirav-modi-extradition-case-on-thursday-101614185941006.html
24-02-2021||World||CIA nominee pledges to provide 'unvarnished' intelligence||President Joe Biden's nominee to run the CIA told lawmakers Wednesday that he would keep politics out of the job and deliver “unvarnished” intelligence to politicians and policymakers.“I've learned that politics must stop where intelligence works begin,” William Burns told members of the Senate Intelligence Committee.“That is exactly what President Biden expects of CIA.”Burns said the president "wants the agency to give it to him straight, and I plan to do just that and to defend those who do the same."The comments from Burns were aimed at drawing a contrast with the prior administration, when President Donald Trump faced repeated accusations of politicising intelligence and he publicly disputed the assessments of his own intelligence agencies, most notably about Russian election interference.Burns is a former ambassador to Russia and Jordan who served at the State Department for more than 30 years under both Democratic and Republican presidents.His well-known status in diplomatic circles makes his confirmation likely.He acknowledged that he would be returning to government at a time of diverse international security threats, including from China, Russia, North Korea and Iran.Burns appeared before the committee one day after members held a hearing on Russian hacks that targeted the US private sector and federal government agencies.He said that intrusion was a “very harsh wake-up call about the vulnerabilities of supply chains and critical infrastructure” and that the CIA had to work even harder to detect and prevent cyberoperations from abroad, to help attribute blame and to develop its own capabilities.He also said that "outcompeting China" would be a core national security priority in the coming years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/cia-nominee-pledges-to-provide-unvarnished-intelligence-101614186803550.html
24-02-2021||World||UN says 41 Europe-bound migrants fleeing Libya drown in Mediterranean||At least 41 people drowned over the weekend when their boat capsized in the Central Mediterranean, the UN said on Wednesday, the latest shipwreck involving migrants fleeing conflict-stricken Libya and seeking better life in Europe.The UN migration and refugee agencies said in a joint statement that the dead were among at least 120 migrants on a dinghy that left Libya on Feb. 18. The shipwreck took place two days later, it said.A commercial vessel rescued the survivors and took them to the Sicilian port town of Porto Empedocle in Italy, they added.The tragedy started when the dinghy took on water about 15 hours after the migrants embarked on their perilous voyage, the UNHCR said, citing testimonies from survivors. Within hours, at least six people fell into the sea and perished, and two others drowned while attempting to swim to a boat spotted in the distance.Later, the commercial vessel Vos Triton arrived, and attempted to rescue survivors in what the UNHCR described as a “difficult and delicate operation." Many others died during the rescue operation, it said.Only one body was recovered, and the missing included three children and four women, one of whom left behind a newborn baby who made it to Lampedusa., it said.The shipwreck was the latest along the Central Mediterranean migration route, where about 160 Europe-bound migrants have died since the beginning of 2021, the UN agencies said.In the years since the 2011 uprising that ousted and killed longtime dictator Moammar Gadhafi, war-torn Libya has emerged as the dominant transit point for migrants fleeing war and poverty in Africa and the Middle East.Smugglers often pack desperate families into ill-equipped rubber boats that stall and founder along the perilous Central Mediterranean route. Over the last several years, hundreds of thousands of migrants have reached Italy either on their own or after being rescued at sea.Thousands have drowned along the way. Others were intercepted and returned to Libya to fall “victim to unspeakable brutality at the hands of traffickers and militias,” the UN refugee agency said.Earlier this week, the UN migration agency said around 3,600 were returned to the North African country since the beginning of 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/un-says-41-europe-bound-migrants-drown-in-mediterranean-101614182539654.html
24-02-2021||World||FATF to take a call on Pakistan's efforts to counter terror financing tomorrow||The Financial Action Task Force (FATF) will on Thursday take a call on Pakistan’s efforts to counter terror financing and money laundering, with the country widely expected to be retained in the multilateral watchdog’s “grey list”.FATF will conclude its three-day virtual plenary meeting on Thursday, following several rounds of meetings of its working groups since February 11. Some of these meetings have focused on the latest report submitted by Pakistan regarding compliance with FATF’s 27-point action plan that was drawn up after the country was placed in the grey list in June 2018.At its last plenary in October 2020, FATF concluded that Pakistan had fully complied with 21 of 27 points in the action plan but warned the country that it could not be given “forever” to address outstanding issues. As all deadlines for the action plan had expired, FATF had urged Pakistan to deliver on all 27 points by February 2021.The Australia-based Asia-Pacific Group (APG), a key regional affiliate of FATF, had also concluded before the last plenary meeting that Pakistan was fully compliant with only two of 40 recommendations to counter terror financing and money laundering.In recent months, Pakistan has taken several steps to fully implement the action plan, such as prosecution of Lashkar-e-Taiba founder Hafiz Saeed and his aides in multiple terror financing cases and the amendment of financial and terrorism laws, though officials of India and several Western countries remain unconvinced these actions are enough to address the shortcomings in the country's regime for curbing terror financing.FATF’s latest plenary is also being held at a time when the US has been irked by the Pakistan Supreme Court’s acquittal of terrorist Omar Saeed Sheikh, the principal accused in the 2002 murder of American journalist Daniel Pearl, and Pakistan’s ties with France have hit a new low following a prolonged row over the caricatures of Prophet Mohammed.Both the US and France played a key role in efforts to put Pakistan in FATF’s grey list and to subsequently get the country to deliver on the watchdog’s action plan. Experts said the irritants in Pakistan’s ties with these two countries could become a factor in the ongoing plenary meeting.However, Pakistan is banking on the support other key countries, including China and Turkey, to ensure it isn’t moved into the “black list”, which would entail harsher sanctions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/fatf-to-take-a-call-on-pakistan-s-efforts-to-counter-terror-financing-tomorrow-101614182792065.html
24-02-2021||World||Pakistan military personnel punished over escape of Taliban figure: Spokesperson||A number of Pakistani military personnel have been penalised for negligence over the escape of a high-profile former Pakistani Taliban figure from custody, an armed services spokesman said on Wednesday.Liaqat Ali, the former public face of the militant Tehrik-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP) and better known by his pseudonym Ehsanullah Ehsan, escaped last year three years after he handed himself in to the military."All those responsible for it were tried and penalised," Major General Babar Iftikhar, spokesman for Pakistan's Armed Forces, told reporters in the city of Rawalpindi where the army is headquartered.He said those penalised were military personnel but did not give details including the number or identity of whose who were prosecuted. The military's media wing denied that any of those penalised had any involvement or collusion with Ehsan during the escape, saying it was a case of negligence.Ehsan was TTP's spokesman for nearly a decade, issuing statements and holding press conferences in the group's stronghold near the Afghan border. He proclaimed TTP's responsibility for deadly bombings and attacks, including the 2012 shooting of education activist Malala Yousafzai. On Twitter earlier this month, Yousafzai responded to a threatening tweet directed at her by an account allegedly belonging to Ehsan, asking the military and government how he had been able to escape.A government statement last year confirming the escape said had said Ehsan evaded custody during a counter-terror operation in which he was accompanying soldiers to find Taliban leaders, as he had agreed to do after his surrender.Ehsan has issued statements through various Twitter accounts since his escape and has said on social media that he is abroad.Iftikhar, the military spokesman, said that his tweet this month was via a fake account and that Ehsan's location was not confirmed, but efforts were underway to recapture him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistan-military-personnel-punished-over-escape-of-taliban-figure-spokesperson-101614182551035.html
24-02-2021||World||US to admit asylum seekers from hard-hit camp at Texas border||The United States this week will begin processing people held in the Matamoros migrant camp at the Texas border for entry into the country after the area was hit hard by severe weather, the Department of Homeland Security said on Wednesday.The camp, across the Rio Grande from Brownsville, Texas, is home to hundreds of migrants, most from Central America, hoping to be granted refuge across the border. They have endured sub-zero temperatures over the last week while living in flimsy tents."The migrant camp in Matamoros has recently been hard hit by extreme weather in northern Mexico. As President Biden continues to rebuild the nation's border management in a way that reflects America's values, addressing humanitarian needs in Matamoros has become a priority," the department said in a statement.It said new arrivals at the camp will not gain entry into the United States through this limited process.The statement came after DHS abruptly canceled plans last Monday to bring asylum seekers into Texas at two ports of entry.Some camp residents have lived there for more than a year under former President Donald Trump's controversial Migrant Protection Protocols (MPP) program requiring asylum seekers to wait in Mexico for US court hearings.The Biden administration has said a new process will gradually begin to allow thousands of MPP asylum seekers to await courts’ decisions within the United States.UN agencies will begin preparing camp residents for possible entry on Wednesday, conducing in-person registration of Matamoros' estimated 750 residents, the UN Refugee Agency said in a statement. An initial group could be allowed to enter the United States this week, pending approval by US authorities, it said.There will be strict enforcement of health and safety protocols including testing for Covid-19, DHS said.Its statement also contained a warning, as the Biden administration tries to head off a surge of migrants flocking to the border after a crackdown on immigration under Trump."Individuals should not believe smugglers or others claiming the border is now open. The administration will enforce existing immigration laws," it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-to-admit-asylum-seekers-from-hard-hit-camp-at-texas-border-101614179330506.html
24-02-2021||World||Over 23 tonnes of cocaine seized in Europe's biggest haul||Customs authorities in Hamburg and Antwerp have seized a record haul of more than 23 tonnes of cocaine destined for the Netherlands in two raids this month, Dutch prosecutors said on Wednesday.The two shipments together represented a street value of roughly 600 million euros ($730 million), the prosecutors said, making it the biggest catch of cocaine headed for the Netherlands ever.Prosecutors said a 28-year old Dutchman had been arrested on Wednesday who was registered as the recipient of the containers in which the drugs were found.In Hamburg, Germany, 16.17 tonnes of cocaine were found in over 1,700 tins of wall filler which had arrived on a container ship from Paraguay.In the Belgian port of Antwerp around 7.2 tonnes of the drugs was found hidden in a container filled with wood blocks which had been shipped from Panama.On Tuesday, Dutch customs officers announced the largest heroin haul ever found in one bust in the Netherlands - more than 1,500 kg of heroin discovered in the port of Rotterdam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/over-23-tonnes-of-cocaine-seized-in-europe-s-biggest-haul-101614179181442.html
24-02-2021||World||North Korea enslaving political prisoners to fund weapons programme: Report||North Korea has been enslaving political prisoners, including children, in coal production to boost exports and earn foreign currency as part of a system directly linked to its nuclear and missile programmes, a South Korea-based human rights group said on Thursday.The Seoul-based Citizens' Alliance for North Korean Human Rights (NKHR) released a study analysing an intricate connection between North Korea's exploitation of its citizens, the production of goods for export, and its weapons programmes.The report, titled "Blood Coal Export from North Korea: Pyramid scheme of earnings maintaining structures of power," said Pyongyang had been operating a "pyramid fraud-like" scheme to force those held in prison camps to produce quotas of coal and other goods for export.Its findings offered a deeper look into how the camps contribute to North Korea's shady coal trade network, after the United Nations banned its commodity exports to choke off funding for Pyongyang's nuclear and ballistic missile programmes, and after human rights agencies reported on gross rights violations within the camps.There was no immediate reaction from North Korea's diplomatic mission in Geneva to a request for comment.Read | North Korean defector numbers plunge amid pandemicNorth Korea violated United Nations sanctions to earn nearly $200 million in 2017 from banned commodity exports, according to a confidential report by independent UN monitors released in early 2018.The NKHR report cited interviews with former prisoners who escaped to the South and other defectors with knowledge about the dealings, along with other sources such as satellite images, and data from the South Korean and U.S. governments.The United Nations estimates up to 200,000 people are held in a vast network of gulags run by Stasi-like secret police, many of which are located near mining sites. A 2014 UN Commission of Inquiry report said the prisoners are facing torture, rape, forced labour, starvation and other inhumane treatment.Last December, the United States imposed new sanctions, blacklisting six companies, including several based in China, and four ships accused of illicit exports of North Korean coal."Quotas of products for export are met through the enslaved labour of men, women and children in detention camps owned and operated by secret police," the NKHR report said.Camp 18, for example, is in the central mining county of Bukchang. Former prisoners interviewed by the NKHR reported at least 8 million tonnes of coal was produced there in 2016.The secret police, formally known as the Ministry of State Security, handle shipments of goods exported by Bureau 39, a covert secret fund for leader Kim Jong Un's family, with links to the production of nuclear, biological and chemical weapons, the report added.Joanna Hosaniak, deputy director general at the NKHR, said the investigation was intended to highlight the key role of the "state-sponsored system of slavery" in shoring up Kim's political and financial power and its nuclear programmes, just as US President Joe Biden reviews his North Korea policy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/north-korea-enslaving-political-prisoners-to-fund-weapons-programme-report-101614179208475.html
24-02-2021||World||Number of women on UK corporate boards rises 50% in 5 years||Women now hold more than a third of the seats on the boards of Britain’s biggest companies, meeting a government target set five years ago.The number of women on the boards of directors of Britain’s 350 top publicly traded firms has jumped by more than 50% since 2015, meaning that 34.3% of all board seats are now held by women, an independent panel said in a report published Wednesday. Women hold at least one-third of the board seats at 220 companies, up from 53 five years ago.While companies met the target for board membership, women still lag behind in the competition for senior executive roles, particularly at smaller firms. Women hold 26.5% of executive committee seats at the 100 largest companies and just 21.7% of these seats at smaller companies.“The progress has been strongest with non-executive positions on boards, but the coming years should see many more women taking top executive roles,” said Philip Hampton, the former chairman of Royal Bank of Scotland who led the panel. “That’s what is needed to sustain the changes made.”The British government set the one-third goal as part of an effort to encourage businesses to voluntarily increase the number of women on their boards and in senior executive roles. Other countries, including France, Norway, Sweden and Italy, have set legally binding quotas.Women hold 43.8% of the board seats at companies in France’s 40 biggest publicly traded companies, the U.K. panel said. The corresponding number for Norway is 39.5%, Sweden 37.3% and Italy 36.5%Business Secretary Kwasi Kwarteng said he hoped Britain’s voluntary approach would provide an example for other countries.“The UK government’s voluntary, business-led approach to increasing women’s boardroom representation has been hugely successful and will, I hope, serve as a blueprint for countries across the world looking to make business more reflective of society,” he said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/number-of-women-on-uk-corporate-boards-rises-50-in-5-years-101614179119906.html
24-02-2021||World||Pak, India can resolve Kashmir issue through dialogue: Imran Khan says in Lanka||Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan said on Wednesday that Kashmir is the only dispute with India and it can only be resolved through dialogue.Addressing the Sri Lanka-Pakistan Trade and Investment Conference which he co-chaired with his counterpart Mahinda Rajapaksa in Colombo, Khan said that he offered India an opportunity to hold peace talks on being elected as prime minister in 2018 but nothing came to pass."Our only dispute is Kashmir and it can only be resolved through dialogue," he said.Earlier this month, India said it desires normal neighbourly relations with Pakistan in an environment free of terror, hostility and violence."Immediately when I came into power, I approached our neighbour India and explained to Prime Minister Narendra Modi that the way forward for the subcontinent is to resolve our differences through dialogue," Khan said."I didn't succeed but I am optimistic that eventually sense will prevail. The only way the subcontinent can tackle poverty is by improving trade relations," he added.India has said that the onus is on Pakistan to create an environment free of terror and hostility."Our position is well-known. India desires normal neighbourly relations with Pakistan in an environment free of terror, hostility and violence," External Affairs Ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said. "The onus is on Pakistan for creating such an environment."Ties between India and Pakistan nosedived after a terror attack on the Pathankot Air Force base in 2016 by terror groups based in the neighbouring country. Subsequent attacks, including one on Indian Army camp in Uri, further deteriorated the relationship.The relationship dipped further after India's war planes pounded a Jaish-e-Mohammad terrorist training camp deep inside Pakistan on February 26, 2019 in response to the Pulwama terror attack in which 40 CRPF jawans were killed.The relations deteriorated after India in August 2019 announced withdrawing special powers of Jammu and Kashmir and bifurcation of the state into two union territories.Khan, who is the first head of state to visit Sri Lanka since the COVID-19 pandemic, said political stability in the region - by maintaining good relations with neighbouring countries - ensured a business-friendly environment that resulted in the people's overall development.The Sri Lankan Muslim leaders were allowed to meet Khan after the opportunity was denied to them initially.Rauff Hakeem, the leader of the main Muslim party - Sri Lanka Muslim Congress - said that they had a pleasant and fruitful discussion with Khan. He said the Pakistani prime minister had expressed confidence in the ability of the Muslim leaders to achieve communal harmony in the island nation.Khan was under pressure from local Muslim leaders to raise the issue of forced cremations of Muslim COVID-19 victims.Sri Lanka had adopted a policy of allowing only cremations citing health issues despite opposition from the Muslim community and international rights groups who were insisting on respecting the Islamic religious rite of burials.Khan congratulated Sri Lanka earlier this month when Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa said in Parliament that burials would be allowed for Muslim victims of COVID-19. However, the decision is yet to be implemented.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pak-india-can-resolve-kashmir-issue-through-dialogue-imran-khan-says-in-lanka-101614178529627.html
24-02-2021||World||Vietnam's first batch of Covid-19 vaccine arrives from South Korea||Vietnam received the first batch of 117,000 doses of the AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccine on Wednesday ahead of the planned rollout of the Southeast Asian country's vaccination programme from next month.The vaccines, which arrived at Ho Chi Minh City on a flight from South Korea, will be used to inoculate more than 50,000 people who are seen as high risk, the government said in a statement.Deputy health minister, Truong Quoc Cuong, was at the airport to meet the consignment of vaccines flown in from Seoul, according to media.South Korea's SK Bioscience has a plant that has been approved to manufacture the AstraZeneca vaccine.The batch is part of 30 million doses that the Vietnam Vaccine Joint Stock Co., a company set up to handle vaccine import and distribution, will bring in, the government said.Vietnam said on Tuesday health workers, diplomats and military personnel would be among the first to be vaccinated against COVID-19.The Southeast Asian country with a population of 98 million has said it will receive 60 million vaccine doses this year, including half under the WHO-led COVAX scheme.Vietnam was lauded globally for containing the virus for months using mass testing and strict quarantining, though has faced a recent new wave of infections.The country has recorded 811 new COVID-19 cases since the latest outbreak started last month or about a third of its overall caseload of 2,403 infections since infections were first detected a year ago. Vietnam has reported 35 deaths due to the virus. (Reporting by Khanh Vu Editing by Ed Davies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/vietnams-first-batch-of-covid-19-vaccine-arrives-from-south-korea-101614150809965.html
24-02-2021||World||Neera Tanden's committee vote delayed as doubts about confirmation mount||A pair of committee-level confirmation votes on President Joe Biden’s pick for budget director, Neera Tanden, have been postponed, further fueling doubts about whether she can win approval to the post.Votes set for Wednesday by the the Senate’s Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs and Budget panels were each postponed, according to a notice posted by the first committee and aides familiar with the matter. No official reason was immediately provided.The Homeland Security committee vote, which was due to take place in a hearing scheduled for 10am, was postponed because members need more time to consider Tanden’s nomination, according to an aide familiar with the matter. Biden deserves to have a team in place that he wants, and the committee will look for the best path forward, the aide said.Tanden’s chances of nomination had already narrowed this week as Republicans and at least one Democrat -- Joe Manchin of West Virginia -- have said they won’t support her.The postponements Wednesday hint at further unease. Democrats can’t afford to lose any members during committee votes due to their slim majority.Both Arizona’s Kyrsten Sinema, who serves on the Homeland Security committee, and Vermont’s Bernie Sanders, who chairs the budget panel, haven’t said whether they’ll support Tanden. Sinema’s and Sanders’s offices didn’t immediately respond to requests for comment.Their opposition would require additional Republican votes for Tanden to win confirmation in the full Senate, which is divided 50-50 along party lines.Complicating matters further for Tanden’s supporters, Senate Republican leader Mitch McConnell is pushing all of the chamber’s GOP members to vote against the nomination.Biden’s White House said Wednesday it was still pushing to win support for Tanden.Tanden is “a leading policy expert” who “has a broad spectrum of support, ranging from the US Chamber of Commerce to labor unions, and has a strong record of working with both parties that we expect to grow in President Biden’s cabinet as the first South Asian woman to lead OMB,” White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki said Wednesday following the committee delay.Biden has also expressed confidence in her approval. “We still think there’s a shot, a good shot,” he said Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/neera-tanden-s-committee-vote-delayed-as-doubts-about-confirmation-mount-101614177445491.html
24-02-2021||World||Ghana 1st nation to receive coronavirus vaccines from Covax||Ghana received the world’s first delivery of coronavirus vaccines from the United Nations-backed Covax initiative on Wednesday — the long-awaited start for a program that has thus far fallen short of hopes that it would ensure shots were given quickly to the world’s most vulnerable people.The arrival of 600,000 doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine in the West African country marks the beginning of the largest vaccine procurement and supply operation in history, according to the World Health Organization and UNICEF. It is a linchpin of efforts to bring the pandemic to an end and has been hailed as the first time the world has delivered a highly sought-after vaccine to poor countries during an ongoing outbreak.“Today marks the historic moment for which we have been planning and working so hard. With the first shipment of doses, we can make good on the promise of the COVAX facility to ensure people from less wealthy countries are not left behind in the race for life-saving vaccines,” said Henrietta Fore, executive director of UNICEF, which delivered the vaccines.But the initiative, formed to ensure fair access to vaccines by low- and middle-income countries, has been hampered by the severely limited global supply of doses and logistical problems. Although it aims to deliver 2 billion shots this year, it currently has legally binding agreements only for several hundred million shots.It already missed its own goal of beginning vaccinations in poor countries at the same time immunizations were rolled out in rich ones, some of which have now administered millions of shots. That delay led numerous poorer countries to rush to sign their own deals, potentially undermining Covax's efforts to get shots to the neediest people worldwide.And some countries can't afford to go it alone.Ghana is among 92 countries that will receive vaccines for free through the initiative, which is led by the WHO; Gavi, a vaccine group; and the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations. Another 90 countries and eight territories have agreed to pay.Ghana, a nation of 30 million people that has recorded 81,245 cases and 584 deaths since the beginning of the pandemic, plans to begin vaccinations on March 2. Neighboring Ivory Coast will be the next to receive vaccines, and also will roll them out starting next week.Even as it celebrated receiving the first doses, Ghana noted the long road ahead.“The government of Ghana remains resolute at ensuring the welfare of all Ghanaians and is making frantic efforts to acquire adequate vaccines to cover the entire population through bilateral and multilateral agencies,” Ghana’s acting minister of information, Kojo Oppong Nkrumah, said in a statement.That freneticism has been echoed across the continent of 1.3 billion people, as deliveries have fallen behind schedule and African nations have scrambled to secure vaccines from various sources. Only about seven of 54 have begun vaccination campaigns.Some activists have also expressed serious concern about the COVAX initiative’s goal of only giving enough shots to cover about 20% to 30% of the population in countries that receive donated doses. They have warned that even if the program is successful in distributing those vaccines, those countries will remain vulnerable to continued coronavirus outbreaks since most experts guess that at least 70% of people will need protection from the virus to reach herd immunity.And experts have noted that even if richer countries reach some level of herd immunity, everyone will remain vulnerable as long as there are pockets of COVID-19 anywhere in the world.“We will not end the pandemic anywhere unless we end it everywhere,” said WHO Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus. “Today is a major first step towards realizing our shared vision of vaccine equity, but it’s just the beginning. We still have a lot of work to do with governments and manufacturers to ensure that vaccination of health workers and older people is underway in all countries within the first 100 days of this year.”The vaccines delivered Wednesday are the first of some about 7 million doses being produced by the Serum Institute in India for some 20 countries, according to the Africa Centres for Disease Control and Prevention.“Over the coming weeks, COVAX must deliver vaccines to all participating economies to ensure that those most at risk are protected, wherever they live," said Dr Seth Berkley, CEO of Gavi. "We need governments and businesses now to recommit their support for COVAX and help us defeat this virus as quickly as possible.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/ghana-1st-nation-to-receive-coronavirus-vaccines-from-covax-101614175781768.html
24-02-2021||World||Facebook to invest $1 billion in news industry after Australia row||Facebook Inc on Wednesday pledged to invest at least $1 billion in the news industry over the next three years, days after a high-profile stand-off with the Australian government over paying news outlets for content.The social network's commitment to the news industry follows Google's $1 billion investment last year, as technology giants come under scrutiny over their business model as well as the proliferation of misinformation on their platform.Facebook on Tuesday restored Australian news pages, ending an unprecedented week-long blackout after wringing concessions from the government over a proposed law that will require tech giants to pay traditional media companies for their content.The brief blackout shocked the global news industry, which has already seen its business model upended by the tech giants.In a blog detailing its version of the showdown, Facebook said the news ban was related to a "fundamental misunderstanding" of the relationship between the company and news publishers.It also acknowledged that some non-news content got inadvertently blocked when it banned all news content.Facebook said on Wednesday it has already invested $600 million in the news industry since 2018.The social media company added it was in active negotiations with news publishers in Germany and France for a deal to pay for content for its news product, where users can find headlines and stories next to a personalized news feed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/facebook-to-invest-1-billion-in-news-industry-after-australia-row-101614175710758.html
24-02-2021||World||Turkish court convicts executive, two jet pilots in Carlos Ghosn escape trial||A Turkish court convicted an executive of Turkish jet company MNG and two pilots over their role in flying former Nissan Motor Co Ltd Chairman Carlos Ghosn out of Japan during his escape to Lebanon just over a year ago.The court sentenced them to four years and two months on charges of migrant smuggling. It acquitted two other pilots of the same charge.Ghosn, once a leading light of the global car industry, was arrested in Japan in late 2018 and charged with underreporting his salary and using company funds for personal purposes, charges he denies.The ousted chairman of the alliance of Renault, Nissan Motor Co and Mitsubishi Motors Corp had been awaiting his trial under house arrest in Japan when he escaped in December 2019 via Istanbul to Beirut, his childhood home.An executive from Turkish private jet operator MNG Jet and four pilots were detained by Turkish authorities in early January 2020 and charged with migrant smuggling.The defendants were released in July, when the first hearing was held, and are not expected to return to jail due to time they served.All defendants have pleaded not guilty to the charges.The Ghosn saga has shaken the global auto industry, at one point jeopardising the Renault-Nissan alliance which he masterminded, and increased scrutiny of Japan's judicial system.Renault and Nissan have struggled to recover profitability following his tenure, during which both automakers say Ghosn focused too much on expanding sales and market share.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/turkish-court-convicts-executive-two-jet-pilots-in-carlos-ghosn-escape-trial-101614176996019.html
24-02-2021||World||Only 15% of AstraZeneca vaccine available in Germany has been used||Germany has administered only 15% of the AstraZeneca coronavirus shots it has available, the health ministry said, as the vaccine faces public resistance after trials showed it to be less effective than alternatives.The ministry said the vaccine would be offered to people that are in other priority groups after saying earlier this week state workers such as teachers and police would get priority access."Nothing must be left behind," a spokesman for the ministry told journalists in a regular briefing on Wednesday.Chancellor Angela Merkel's spokesman on Wednesday urged people to trust the vaccine which was developed at Britain's Oxford University, saying it was safe and effective.Earlier on Wednesday, Germany's health ministry said it expected to receive 16 million doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine in the second quarter.That could represent a shortfall from the company's commitments to deliver about twice that number of doses to Germany in that quarter, according to a contract with the EU that was leaked last week.Reuters reported on Tuesday that delivery volumes to the European Union were expected to be at half the level AstraZeneca had contracted to supply in the second quarter.Germany's 16 million doses are in line with this possible shortfall. The country was expected to receive about 34 million AstraZeneca shots in the second quarter, according to a German health ministry internal document seen by Reuters.In its statement on Wednesday, the health ministry confirmed the German forecasts on deliveries, which were not previously public.In total, Germany expects 56.3 million doses from AstraZeneca under the EU contract, which is equal to 18.7% of 300 million doses for the EU.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/only-15-of-astrazeneca-vaccine-available-in-germany-has-been-used-101614176974907.html
24-02-2021||World||Strong G20 action to reverse 'dangerous divergence' in global economy: IMF chief||Group of 20 countries should take strong policy actions to reverse a "dangerous divergence" that threatens to leave most developing economies languishing for years, the head of the International Monetary Fund said in a blog on Wednesday.IMF Managing Director Kristalina Georgieva said "much stronger international collaboration" was needed to accelerate the rollout of Covid-19 vaccines in poorer countries, including additional funding to help them buy doses and reallocation of excess vaccines from surplus to deficit countries.She called for continued, targeted fiscal support by G20 governments to support economies, and said central banks should maintain accommodative monetary and financial policies to support flow of credit to households, and firms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/strong-g20-action-to-reverse-dangerous-divergence-in-global-economy-imf-chief-101614176552169.html
24-02-2021||World||Thai court ousts 3 cabinet members found guilty of sedition||Three Cabinet ministers in Thailand were forced to leave their posts Wednesday after a court found them guilty of sedition for taking part in sometimes-violent protests in 2013-2014 against the government then in power.The Criminal Court in Bangkok found Digital Economy Minister Buddhipongse Punnakanta, Education Minister Nataphol Teepsuwan and Deputy Transport Minister Thaworn Senneam guilty along with about two dozen other defendants in a case that was launched in 2018.The verdicts can be appealed to a higher court but under the law the Cabinet ministers must relinquish their jobs immediately.Another prominent person convicted Wednesday was Suthep Thaugsuban, a former deputy prime minister who helped found the People’s Democratic Reform Committee, which led the demonstrations against the elected government of then-Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra. Instability caused by the street protests led to the Thai army staging a coup in 2014 and keeping power until 2019.Suthep and the Cabinet ministers each received prison sentences ranging from five to about seven years.“We are prepared. Whatever happens, will happen,” Suthep said outside the court. "But I have to assure you that the protest leaders and those who share our same belief, that we are fighting for our country and our land. We firmly believe in responsibility in our actions and not violating the law.”The protests marked the tail end of almost a decade of intense political contention in Thailand that began in 2006 after then-Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra was ousted by a coup after being accused of corruption and abuse of power. Thaksin is Yingluck's brother, and they are both currently in exile.Thaksin’s ouster set off years of sometimes violent conflict between his supporters and opponents, both of which engaged in aggressive street protests against governments led by the other’s faction. The People’s Democratic Reform Committee was in the anti-Thaksin camp, which in an earlier incarnation as the People’s Alliance for Democracy occupied the prime minister’s offices and Bangkok’s international airport for about a week in 2008.Thaksin’s supporters were known as the Red Shirts, and in 2010 wreaked havoc by occupying part of central Bangkok. Their protest was suppressed by the army with armed force in violence over several weeks that took almost 100 lives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/thai-court-ousts-3-cabinet-members-found-guilty-of-sedition-101614174900774.html
24-02-2021||World||Johnson & Johnson vaccine highly effective against severe Covid-19: FDA||The single-shot Johnson & Johnson vaccine is highly effective in preventing severe Covid-19, including the South African and Brazil variants, new documents released by the US Food and Drug Administration showed Wednesday.In large clinical trials, the vaccine efficacy against severe disease was 85.9 percent in the United States, 81.7 percent in South Africa, and 87.6 percent in Brazil.An independent panel of the Food and Drug Administration will meet to discuss its merits on Friday and an emergency use authorization is likely to follow soon after.That would bring a third vaccine into the fight against the outbreak in the United States, the world's hardest-hit country where more than 500,000 people have lost their lives.Experts see the J&J vaccine as a vital tool, even though its efficacy against moderate Covid-19 is lower than that demonstrated by the Pfizer and Moderna shots that have already received authorization."The vaccine was effective in preventing Covid-19 using a less restrictive definition of the disease and for more severe disease, including Co-19 requiring medical intervention, considering all cases starting 14 days after vaccination," the new FDA summary said."Although a lower efficacy overall was observed in South Africa, where there was a predominance of B.1.3.5 lineage during the time period of this study, vaccine efficacy against severe/critical Covid-19 was similarly high across the United States, South Africa, and Brazil," it added.The J&J vaccine uses a common-cold causing adenovirus, which has been modified so that it can't replicate, to carry the gene for a key protein of the coronavirus into human cells.This makes those cells produce that protein, which in turn trains the human immune system.The fact that it requires only one dose, and that it can be stored at fridge temperature rather than in freezers like the Pfizer and Moderna shots, gives it an operational advantage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/johnson-johnson-vaccine-highly-effective-against-severe-covid-19-fda-101614176246578.html
24-02-2021||World||France contemplates ‘targeted measures,’ seeks to avoid lockdown||France is reviewing local coronavirus hot spots on a case-by-case basis, and has decided to implement “targeted measures” to prevent the spread of new and more virulent variants.The situation is worrying in about 10 areas,” government spokesman Gabriel Attal said during a press briefing on Wednesday.President Emmanuel Macron’s government is seeking to avoid a third full lockdown, which would crush the economy and could prove political costly some 14 months before presidential elections. The country is already implementing a nationwide curfew that runs from 6 a.m. to 6 p.m., but amid a sluggish vaccine roll out officials have warned that isn’t enough.While France has seen an average of about 20,000 new cases a day since December, and intensive care occupancy recently showing a slight rise to 67%, there’s an increasingly large regional variation.The region of Alpes-Maritimes in the south, including Nice, is being shuttered over the coming two weekends to avoid gatherings during school holidays. The Paris region is under scrutiny as cases continue to rise there.French Prime Minister Jean Castex will speak during the government’s weekly presser on Thursday, Attal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/france-contemplates-targeted-measures-seeks-to-avoid-lockdown-101614173083761.html
24-02-2021||World||Germany approves Covid home tests to ease way out of lockdown||Germany approved three Covid-19 tests for home use as part Health Minister Jens Spahn's strategy to help Europe's biggest economy emerge from a lockdown that has been in place since mid-December.The infection rate in Germany fell steadily in the first weeks of the year but has stagnated in recent days, making it more difficult for leaders to ease restrictions when they meet next week to consider lockdown rules that run to March 7.Chancellor Angela Merkel has told lawmakers in her conservative party that making rapid tests more available and boosting testing capacity could make a return to normality more durable, two sources at the meeting told Reuters on Tuesday.The government expects such tests will cost it up to 810 million euros ($985 million) a month for 30 million to 45 million tests, according to documents obtained by Reuters.The Federal Institute for Drugs and Medical Devices, Germany's pharmaceutical regulator, on Wednesday approved antigen tests made by Healgen Scientific, Xiamen Boson Biotech and Hangzhou Laihe Biotech for use by people who are not medical professionals, according to its website.Spahn told broadcaster ZDF earlier that further home test kits would be approved next week.Other countries are also banking on home tests to help limit the spread of the virus. In Austria, self-tests are already being used in schools, and they will be available to the public for free at pharmacies from next week.In England, volunteers and police have handed out Covid-19 testing kits to try to halt the spread of a highly infectious variant that originated in South Africa.In Germany, the number of confirmed coronavirus cases rose by 8,007 to 2,402,818, an increase of 451 compared with a week ago. The infection rate rose to 59.3 cases per 100,000 people over the past seven days, from 57 a week earlier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/germany-approves-covid-home-tests-to-ease-way-out-of-lockdown-101614173104678.html
24-02-2021||World||Denmark to take 'calculated risk' by easing Covid-19 curbs in March||Denmark plans to allow shops and some schools to reopen in March in a much awaited move that could however send hospital coronavirus admissions soaring in coming months.Denmark, which has one of the lowest infection rates in Europe, has seen general infection numbers drop after it introduced lockdown measures in December in a bid to curb a more contagious coronavirus variant.In what the prime minister has called a "calculated risk", the government will allow stores under 5,000 square metres to reopen, while outdoor leisure activities can resume with an upper limit of 25 people.Schools in parts of the country will also be allowed to reopen, but will require students to test themselves twice a week.The measures, which are based on recommendations from an expert advisory group, could send hospital admissions skyrocketing, the goverment said."More activity will also mean more infected and thus also more hospitalisations," Health Minister Magnus Heunicke told a press conference, adding Covid-19 admissions could briefly peak at some 880 in mid-April, more than triple the current 247.Reopening shops is expected to contribute more than 2 billion crowns ($326.92 million) to the Danish economy each month, Finance Minister Nicolai Wammen said on Wednesday."We have seen other countries that have gone too fast and lost control of the infection. This is a scenario we must avoid," Wammen said.A new and more contagious variant of the coronavirus, which has wrought havoc across Europe, became the dominant one in Denmark in February, responsible for more than half of all infections.The variant has a reproduction value of 1.2, which means it is spreading. Denmark has registered a total of 208,556 infections and 2,343 deaths related to Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/denmark-to-take-calculated-risk-by-easing-covid-19-curbs-in-march-101614170664580.html
24-02-2021||World||More than 150 executives back Biden's $1.9 trillion stimulus plan||Senior executives from more than 150 companies are voicing support for President Joe Biden’s $1.9 trillion stimulus package in a letter to congressional leaders urging them to pass coronavirus relief.The letter is signed by leaders across industries, including David Solomon, chairman and chief executive officer at Goldman Sachs; Stephen Schwartzman, the chairman and CEO of Blackstone; Sundar Pichai, the CEO of Google; and John Stankey the CEO of AT&T.“We write to urge immediate and large-scale federal legislation to address the health and economic crises brought on by the Covid-19 pandemic,” the executives wrote in the letter, first reported by CNN.“Congress should act swiftly and on a bipartisan basis to authorize a stimulus and relief package along the lines of the Biden-Harris administration’s proposed American Rescue Plan.”Biden’s bill includes a range of spending measures, including for distributing vaccines, reopening schools, support for state and local governments and the direct payments that the president promised during the campaign season.Democrats are moving forward with the bill despite not having much support from Republicans, who have called the measure too expensive and unnecessarily broad.“Strengthening the public health response to coronavirus is the first step toward economic restoration,” the executives wrote. “The American Rescue Plan mobilizes a national vaccination program, delivers economic relief to struggling families, and supports communities that were most damaged by the pandemic.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/more-than-150-executives-back-biden-s-1-9-trillion-stimulus-plan-101614170668686.html
24-02-2021||World||Amnesty International revokes Alexei Navalny's 'prisoner of conscience' status for past comments||Amnesty International no longer considers jailed Kremlin critic Alexei Navalny a "prisoner of conscience" due to past comments he made that qualify as advocacy of hatred, the group said.Amnesty, however, still believes that Navalny should be freed from jail, that he has committed no crime and that he is being persecuted for his campaigning and outspoken criticism of President Vladimir Putin and his government, it said.The 44-year-old Russian opposition politician was flown to Germany last August to recover from a near-fatal poisoning in Siberia with what many Western nations said was a nerve agent.He was arrested on his return to Russia last month and sentenced to jail for parole violations he called trumped up. He is set to spend just over two-and-a-half years behind bars. The West has demanded his release; Russia says that is meddling."Amnesty International took an internal decision to stop referring to ... Navalny as a prisoner of conscience in relation to comments he made in the past," the group said in a statement sent to Reuters on Wednesday."Some of these comments, which Navalny has not publicly denounced, reach the threshold of advocacy of hatred, and this is at odds with Amnesty's definition of a prisoner of conscience," it added.Amnesty, which had named Navalny a "prisoner of conscience" on Jan. 17 after his arrest, did not specify which comments it was referring to and said it was not aware of similar pronouncements made by him in recent years.Navalny, who has carved out a following campaigning against official corruption, has been criticised for past nationalist statements against illegal immigration and for attending an annual nationalist march several years ago.In a 2007 video, he called for the deportation of migrants to prevent the rise of far-right violence. "We have a right to be (ethnic) Russians in Russia. And we'll defend that right," he said in the video.Navalny could not be reached for comment as he was in jail. His allies protested the move by Amnesty on Twitter.Alexander Golovach, a lawyer for Navalny's FBK anticorruption group, said he was renouncing an earlier "prisoner of conscience" status that Amnesty gave him in 2018 to protest.Ivan Zhdanov, a Navalny ally, said: "the procedure for assigning and revoking Amnesty International status has proven extremely shameful."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/amnesty-international-revokes-alexei-navalny-s-prisoner-of-conscience-status-for-past-comments-101614173069455.html
24-02-2021||World||Sweden to ease Covid-19 rules for vaccinated care home residents||Sweden will ease restrictions on elderly residents of care homes who have been vaccinated against Covid-19, the country's top epidemiologist said on Wednesday, at the same time as rules for the rest of the country are tightened.Sweden has seen a rise in cases in the last couple of weeks, raising fears of a third wave of infections and leading the Public Health Agency to warn it would introduce tougher controls to halt the spread of the pandemic.Tighter restrictions are expected to be announced on Wednesday.At the same time, more than 80% of residents of care homes for the elderly have received their first vaccination against COVID-19 and 64% have completed a course of two shots, according to daily Dagens Nyheter."We have discussed how those who have been fully vaccinated can live, and we think it can be a little different from the very restrictive way they have been doing up to now," Chief Epidemiologist Anders Tegnell told the newspaper.Lighter rules for elderly care home patients who have had both shots will be announced on Thursday, Dagens Nyheter wrote.When it comes time to ease restrictions in general, Tegnell said Sweden did not need to follow the kind of rigid road-map announced this week by British Prime Minister Boris Johnson, as the lockdown had not been so hard."We do not need to take the kind of strict steps that Britain is doing," he said. "When we see that the spread of the infection is a little more stable, we can slowly start to ease a number of restrictions."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/sweden-to-ease-covid-19-rules-for-vaccinated-care-home-residents-101614153701054.html
24-02-2021||World||Malaysia starts coronavirus vaccination, PM gets first shot||Malaysia started its Covid-19 vaccination program on Wednesday, two days ahead of schedule, with Prime Minister Muhyiddin Yassin the first to receive the shot.Muhyiddin and the nation’s Health director-general, as well as several medical staff were among the group to receive the first Pfizer-BioNTech shots in Putrajaya, the country’s administrative capital.The first phase of the vaccine roll-out will run through April. It involves about 500,000 frontliners comprising health-care, defense and security personnel, as well as teachers with co-morbidities, according to the government. Malaysia received its first batch of vaccines on Sunday, when 312,390 doses of the Pfizer-BioNTech shot landed at the Kuala Lumpur International Airport.“I am confident that this vaccine is safe and effective,” Muhyiddin said. “So, trust and believe that the government’s efforts to ensure we break the Covid-19 chain succeeds, God willing.”The inoculation drive will begin in Selangor, Malaysia’s richest state, from Thursday, and get underway in the nation’s federal territories including Kuala Lumpur on March 1, Science, Technology and Innovation Minister Khairy Jamaluddin said at a separate briefing on Wednesday.The government has secured 66.7 million doses of the Covid-19 vaccine from various producers, enough to inoculate nearly 110% of the population. Pfizer remains the only manufacturer to receive the government’s conditional approval for usage, and is set to deliver a total 32 million dosages.Malaysia is also in line to get 12.8 million doses of the AstraZeneca Plc. vaccine, 12 million doses of China’s Sinovac vaccine, 6.4 million shots of Sputnik V and 3.5 million doses from CanSinoBio. The government is evaluating a deal with Johnson & Johnson for its vaccine and hopes to finalize the term sheet soon, said Khairy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/malaysia-starts-coronavirus-vaccination-pm-gets-first-shot-101614156418174.html
24-02-2021||World||North Korean defector numbers plunge amid pandemic||The number of North Koreans defecting to the South plummeted last year after Pyongyang closed its border in the face of the coronavirus pandemic, Seoul's unification ministry said Wednesday.The figure has been on a steady decline for some time but slumped to just 229 last year, the ministry said, far below the 1,047 of 2019.The vast majority of Northern defectors first travel to neighbouring China, sometimes staying there for years before making their way on to the South via third countries, and only a handful directly cross the Demilitarized Zone that divides the peninsula.But the North has a ramshackle health system that would struggle to cope with a major disease outbreak and imposed a strict border closure last January to try to protect itself from the virus that first emerged in China, its key ally.The North has not confirmed a single case of Covid-19 -- although experts have long said it is unlikely to have escaped the pandemic -- and in September the commander of US forces in the South said Pyongyang had issued shoot-to-kill orders in its border areas to prevent the virus entering the country."It looks like the number of (North Korean) people entering the South decreased due to the effects of North Korean-Chinese border control and restrictions of movement from third countries due to Covid-19," Seoul's unification ministry said in a statement.Inter-Korean relations have been in a deep freeze following the collapse of a summit in Hanoi between Kim Jong Un and Donald Trump in 2019 over what the nuclear-armed North would be willing to give up in exchange for a loosening of sanctions.cdl/slb/jah||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/north-korean-defector-numbers-plunge-amid-pandemic-101614159346290.html
24-02-2021||World||In US, Covid-19 aid bill to pay federal workers up to $21,000 for kids staying at home||The US House bill meant to provide an emergency stimulus package to cushion the impact of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic has a perk for federal employees. The House released the bill last Friday which has a provision for federal workers to get paid leave if their children are not back to the in-person classroom set up.The bill allocates $570 million to the emergency federal employee leave fund for payment to federal workers who are unable to work due to multiple reasons mentioned in the bill. The parents working for the federal government will be eligible for the fund through September 30 if they are “caring” for their children who are not physically present in school full time “due to Covid-19 precautions”.“if the school or place of care of the son or daughter has been closed, if the school of such son or daughter requires or makes optional a virtual learning instruction model or requires or makes optional a hybrid of in-person and virtual learning instruction models, or the child care provider of such son or daughter is unavailable, due to Covid-19 precautions;” the bill says.Read | Millions of masks to be sent to households in Biden equity planUnder the emergency federal employee leave fund, a full-time worker can avail up to 600 hours in paid leave, against which the person will be paid up to $35 an hour and $1,400 a week. This means a federal employee can get up to $21,000 for staying at home for reasons acknowledged by the bill. A part-time employee or an employee with a seasonal work schedule will also be eligible for such paid leave against equivalent hours established by the applicable agency.The federal employees will be able to get paid leaves if they are subject to an isolation order related to Covid-19 or to self-quarantine due to concerns related to the infectious disease. Those taking care of a family member with a mental or physical disability or who is 55 years of age or older and incapable of self-care will be eligible for the paid leave if the place of care is closed or the direct care provider is unavailable due to Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-aid-bill-to-pay-federal-workers-up-to-21-000-for-kids-staying-at-home-101614171032077.html
24-02-2021||World||Italy presses UN for answers on envoy's slaying in Congo||Italy on Wednesday pressed the United Nations for answers about the attack on a UN food aid convoy in Congo that left a young ambassador and his paramilitary police bodyguard dead.Foreign Minister Luigi Di Maio told lawmakers in Rome that Italy has asked both the UN and the UN World Food Program (WFP) to open an investigation into the security arrangements for convoy, which was attacked two days earlier.The minister said Italy also will spare no effort to determine the truth behind the killing of Ambassador Luca Attanasio and Carabiniere paramilitary officer Vittorio Iacovacci. A WFP Congolese driver, Moustapha Milambo, was also killed in the attack.“We have formally asked the WFP and the UN to open an inquest that clarifies what happened, the motivations for the security arrangements employed and who was responsible for these decisions,” Di Maio said.The trip was undertaken at the UN’s invitation, according to Di Maio.The two Italians had “entrusted themselves to the protocol of the United Nations,” which flew them on a UN plane from Kinshasha to Goma, 2,500 kilometers (1,500 miles) away, Di Maio said.The Italian embassy in Kinshasha, Di Maio noted, has two armored vehicles at the ambassador's disposal for moving around the city and the country. But for Monday's mission, to visit a WFP school food project in Rutshuri in eastern Congo, Attanasio was traveling in UN vehicles.Only hours earlier, Di Maio, flanked by Premier Mario Draghi, met the arrival of the bodies of the two Italians at a Rome military airport. Autopsies are scheduled for Wednesday and a state funeral for both men was set for Thursday in Rome.A special team of Carabinieri investigators, dispatched by Rome prosecutors, arrived Tuesday in Congo on what Di Maio said would likely be multiple missions to determine what happened.Attanasio, 43, who leaves a widow involved in volunteer projects in Congo and three young children, "was in love with his profession, with Africa and his family,'' Di Maio said. He noted that the Carabiniere was nearing the end of his security detail in Congo and was soon due back in Rome.The World Food Program, which won the Nobel Peace Prize last year for its efforts to feed refugees and other malnourished people worldwide, is headquartered in Rome."For this reason, I immediately asked WFP in Rome and the United Nations, involving directing the Secretary General (Antonio) Guterres, to supply a detailed report on the attack on the convoy,'' Di Maio said.WFP has said the road had been previously cleared for travel without security escorts. UN security officials based in Congo usually determine road safety. On Tuesday, UN spokesman Stephane Dujarric said in New York that the UN had launched an internal review concerning the “security around the incident.”Di Maio said the attackers numbered six, had light arms and apparently spread obstacles on the road and fired shots in the air to stop the convoy.“The noise of the shooting alerted soldiers of the Congolese Armed Forces and the rangers of Virunga park, less than a kilometer (half-mile) away, headed to the place of the incident.”Di Maio quoted the local governor as saying that to force the victims to go into the bush, they killed the WFP driver. When the ranger patrol arrived, Di Maio said, citing the Congolese interior minister’s account, the attackers “fired upon the Carabiniere, killing him, and at the ambassador, gravely wounding him.″ Attanasio died of his wounds shortly afterward.Italy will reinforce its commitments to aid Africa, Di Maio said, calling that the “best way to honor the memory″ of the two slain Italians."A policy that puts Africa at the center of Italian diplomatic, European and international attention, this is the commitment Luca believed in and in which we believe in,'' the foreign minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/italy-presses-un-for-answers-on-envoy-s-slaying-in-congo-101614170500032.html
24-02-2021||World||Chinese report claims to have detailed knowledge of India’s border deployment||The Indian Army’s strategy on the border with China comprises protecting the eastern part, stabilising the middle and seizing the western section, the location of the recent and most serious military standoff in decades, according to a new report on a Chinese website that makes a rare public claim - having detailed knowledge of the Indian Army’s and the Air Force’s deployment across the Sino-Indian border.The analysis by expert Pan Xinmao, formerly from the PLA Academic of Military Science’s Operation Theory and Doctrine Research Department, was published on the website of the Outlook Weekly, focused towards Chinese policy makers, affiliated to the news agency Xinhua. In the report, Pan claims New Delhi has deployed 20% of its soldiers and kept another 30% of troops as reserves in “strategic areas” along the Sino-Indian boundary. Explaining the Indian Army’s policy, the expert said the “eastern section” of the boundary – in Arunachal Pradesh claimed by China as part of south Tibet – is the “key focus” for the Indian military.It said around 85,000 troops, 21 fighter aircraft (Su-MKI), 33 transport planes and 36 helicopters are deployed in the eastern region; the Sikkim section has some 64,000 troops, 30 fighter jets, 39 bombers, and 10 helicopters.More than 100,000 soldiers are deployed in the western (Ladakh) and middle (Himachal Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh) sectors including from the elite Mountain Divisions and infantry divisions besides several battalions of paramilitary forces, dozens of fighter jets, and helicopters.Overall, the Indian military has deployed 10 fighter squadrons along the border with about 320 combat aircraft of various types.In addition, three A-50 early warning aircraft and eight P-8I patrol aircraft have been deployed, and even the P-8I has been dispatched to the Galwan Valley for reconnaissance to strengthen surveillance of border areas to make up for the lack of early warning capability of the Indian Air Force, the analysis said.In the lengthy analysis - more than 6,000 Chinese characters - Pan says India’s China-focused military doctrine and detailed deployment at the border reflects operational thinking.“The deployment of troops is a direct reflection of operational thinking. In terms of troop deployment, India emphasises ’offensive deployment’, and establishes the deployment policy of stabilising first-line troops, strengthening second-line reserves, expanding the depth of campaigns, and enhancing defensive flexibility, thus demonstrating its territorial ambitions,” he wrote.Pan does not mention the information source in his analysis.The analysis comes in the backdrop of Indian and Chinese soldiers disengaging from the Pangong Lake area in eastern Ladakh – in the western sector -- after nine months of being locked in a military standoff.“The Indian army believes that the eastern section is ‘the most vulnerable’ and the Sikkim section is ‘the most sensitive part of Indian’s defence’ as it overlooks the ’strategic’ Siliguri Corridor and where the ‘Chinese army can quickly cut of the Siliguri Corridor and isolate the provinces (states) in northeastern India’.”“Therefore, its deployment focuses on the eastern section and Sikkim section, where 70 percent of the troops in the China-India border area are deployed,” Pan wrote.According to the Chinese expert’s analysis, the Indian army is deployed in three tiers to increase the flexibility of its defence in border areas.“The first echelon is at the front of 10-20 kilometers from the Line of Actual Control (LAC) and is mainly stationed by paramilitary forces; The second echelon is located 50-100 kilometers away from the actual control line and is held by brigade and battalion troops to form the main defence zone. The third echelons are located 100-300 kilometers away from the LAC line and are held by the main forces of the army, division and brigade to form an in-depth defense zone, equipped with strong air combat forces and ground air defense forces,” Pan says in the report.The PLA expert said the India military has focused on its strength, mountain warfare, in deployment in mountainous regions. Among the eight infantry divisions, seven are mountain infantry divisions.Of the 38 brigades, 30 are mountain brigades and mountain artillery brigades.Mountain infantry divisions are equipped with helicopter units and artillery adapted to mountain operations in order to give full play to their specialties, Pan wrote.“After 1962, the Indian army paid attention to learning from the experience and lessons of combat in high and cold mountains. For decades, it has been constantly tempered in actual combat in such areas, and flexibly mastered tactics, such as firepower warfare, air-ground integrated warfare, information warfare, logistics support and anti-support, etc. Their actual combat experience should not be underestimated,” Pan wrote.The Chinese expert also said that most of the Indian army’s main battle equipment and ground troops are equipped with night vision supplies. “They are good at night attacks, carrying out air raids, ground infiltration, airborne operation on the enemy’s rear.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinese-report-claims-to-have-detailed-knowledge-of-india-s-border-deployment-101614170747060.html
24-02-2021||World||Landmark ruling: Chinese court orders man to pay ex-wife for housework||A Beijing divorce court has ordered a man to pay 50,000 yuan ($7,700) to his ex-wife for household work she did during their marriage, a landmark decision that has triggered millions of threads of discussion on Chinese social media. The Beijing court said the compensation awarded to the woman was for “unpaid labour” she did during the time the couple were married.This was the first such decision by a court in China, state media reports said, adding that the verdict raised questions about the status of women in Chinese families and unrecognised domestic work.According to court records, the man identified by his surname Chen had filed for divorce last year from his wife, surnamed Wang, after getting married in 2015.Wang was reluctant to divorce at first, but later requested financial compensation with her lawyer arguing that the husband did no housework or took care of responsibilities related to their son.The court divided the couple’s common property equally and ruled that Wang was legally divorced from her husband Chen and that he had to pay the compensation to Wang.Feng Miao, the judge, said the decision was made according to Article 1088 of the Civil Code of the People’s Republic of China; the new civil code came into effect last year.The article, as quoted by state media stipulates: “Where one spouse is burdened with additional duties for raising children, looking after the elderly, or assisting the other spouse in his/her work, the said spouse has the right to request for compensation upon divorce against the other party, and the other party shall make due compensation.”The landmark judgement went viral on Chinese social media platforms under the hashtag “Full-time wife gets 50,000-yuan compensation for housework”. As of Wednesday, the post had been viewed and shared more than 500 million times.Some netizens wondered how to calculate the value of house work, while others said 50,000 yuan was too little.According to the news website SixthTone, China’s divorce rates have been continuously increasing since 2003.In 2019, over 4.7 million couples officially divorced with women being the ones who proposed divorce in 74% of such cases, the report said, adding that experts attribute this to growing independence among women and shifting attitudes about marriage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/landmark-ruling-chinese-court-orders-man-to-pay-ex-wife-for-housework-101614167986768.html
24-02-2021||World||Europe seeks stronger protection for economy from 'extreme weather events'||The European Union (EU) is bolstering its 14-trillion-euro ($17 trillion) economy against damage caused by the impacts of climate change, from droughts to floods and forest loss.Under an updated climate adaptation strategy unveiled Wednesday, the European Commission is calling for efforts such as better use of climate-risk data, smarter damage prevention and increased insurance coverage. It’s part of the EU’s environmental overhaul called the Green Deal.Even as the 27-nation EU aims to neutralize greenhouse-gas emissions by 2050, the consequences of global warming pose threats to the region’s power grids, farms, cities and human health. The economic losses for increasingly frequent extreme weather events are more than 12 billion euros per year on average, according to the commission, the EU’s executive arm.“There’s not going to be a successful Green Deal, there’s not going to be climate neutrality in 2050 without a consistent effort into adaptation and mitigation,” said Frans Timmermans, the commission’s executive vice-president.The new, more ambitious adaptation plan encourages better use of data on climate-related risks, stepping up planning to prevent damages and incorporating climate risks into financial frameworks. It also aims to close the so-called climate protection gap, or the share of non-insured economic losses.Only 35% of the climate-linked economic losses are insured on average, according to the commission. The proportion is as low as 5% in southern and eastern Europe.Extreme weather events, such as forest fires and heatwaves in the Arctic Circle, droughts in the south and flooding and forest loss in central and eastern Europe, are already having far-reaching effects on the European economy. Total insurance losses for weather-related events amounted to 0.1% of gross domestic product in 2018 and are likely to rise.“More different and more tailored policies in all member states I think will help us minimize economic losses,” Timmermans said. “This is very, very important and for that we need the insurance sector. Adaptation efforts could be promoted through reduced premiums or the insurance of nature-based solutions.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/europe-seeks-stronger-protection-for-economy-from-extreme-weather-events-101614166622545.html
24-02-2021||World||East African nations will likely contain locust swarms: FAO||East African nations are likely to contain new locust swarms emerging in the region because of continuing pest-control operations and the prospect of poor spring rains, the Food and Agriculture Organization said.The potential of a new generation of breeding comes after the region faced its worst locust invasion in decades last year, threatening the food security of millions of people. At the height of the infestation, 39 of Kenya’s 47 counties reported invasions of the insects that also spread to Ethiopia, Somalia, Uganda and Yemen.The present situation in East Africa differs significantly from a year ago, the FAO said.“The current swarms are smaller in size and less numerous,” it said. “Very little rain has fallen since the end of the short rains last year. Intensive aerial control operations, supported by ground teams, are well established and making good progress in reducing locust infestations.”The Global Locust Initiative at Arizona State University expects locust outbreaks to become more frequent and severe because of climate change.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/east-african-nations-will-likely-contain-locust-swarms-fao-101614164798389.html
24-02-2021||World||Ghana becomes first nation in world to receive Covax vaccines||Ghana has become the first country in the world to receive vaccines acquired through the United Nations-backed Covax initiative with a delivery of 600,000 doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine made by the Serum Institute of India.The vaccines, delivered by Unicef, arrived at Accra’s international airport early Wednesday and are part of the first wave of Covid-19 vaccines being sent by Covax, an international cooperative program formed to make sure low- and middle-income countries have fair access to Covid-19 vaccines. Covax is led by the United Nation’s World Health Organization; Gavi, a vaccine group; and the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations, or CEPI.Ghana is among 92 countries that have signed onto the Covax program, according to a statement by Ghana’s acting Minister of Information Kojo Oppong Nkrumah.The West African nation of 30 million has recorded 81,245 cases and 584 deaths since the beginning of the pandemic, according to figures from Ghana’s Health Services Tuesday.Ghana's vaccination campaign will begin March 2 and will be conducted in phases among prioritized groups, beginning with health workers, adults of 60 years and over, people with underlying health conditions, frontline executive, legislature, judiciary, and their related staff, said Nkrumah.“The government of Ghana remains resolute at ensuring the welfare of all Ghanaians and is making frantic efforts to acquire adequate vaccines to cover the entire population through bilateral and multi-lateral agencies,” he said.In a joint statement, the country representatives of Unicef and WHO described the arrival of the Covax vaccines as a “momentous occasion” critical to bringing the pandemic to an end.“After a year of disruptions due to the Covid-19 pandemic ... the path to recovery for the people of Ghana can finally begin,” said the statement.The Covax shipment to Ghana is the start of what will be the world's largest vaccine procurement and supply operation in history, according to the statement. Covax plans to deliver close to 2 billion doses of Covid-19 vaccines around the world this year.“Today marks the historic moment for which we have been planning and working so hard. With the first shipment of doses, we can make good on the promise of the Covax Facility to ensure people from less wealthy countries are not left behind in the race for life-saving vaccines,” said Henrietta Fore, Unicef's executive director.“The next phase in the fight against this disease can begin -– the ramping up of the largest immunization campaign in history," said Fore. "Each step on this journey brings us further along the path to recovery for the billions of children and families affected around the world.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/ghana-becomes-first-nation-in-world-to-receive-covax-vaccines-101614164801652.html
24-02-2021||World||Belgium to try 14 over 2015 Paris attacks||Belgium will put 14 suspects on trial for allegedly aiding those who carried out the November 2015 Paris attacks that left 130 people dead, the federal prosecution service said Wednesday.Those facing trial are accused of having transported, housed or provided material support to the bombers and gunmen who hit targets including cafes and a popular music venue in the French capital.Twelve of them will face charges of "participating in the activities of a terrorist group" over the attack, prosecution spokesman Eric Van Duyse told AFP.The decision to send them to trial was announced at a closed-door hearing in the Belgian capital and is subject to appeal.The trial could take part in the second half of 2021 in Brussels.Investigators believe the devastating 2015 carnage in Paris, claimed by the Islamic State group, was in large part planned in Belgium, where several of the suspected attackers came from.Two of the suspects will be tried in absentia after they are believed to have died fighting for IS in Syria.Some of those standing trial face charges linked to helping the only surviving alleged perpetrator, Salah Abdeslam, to hide until he was finally tracked down and arrested in Brussels in March 2016.One of them, Abid Aberkane, is facing trial for hiding the suspected jihadist at his mother's home in the last days before his arrest.His mother was among five people who had their cases dismissed on Wednesday.The other defendants are accused of coming from the entourage around Abdelslam and the attackers who carried out the 2016 Brussels bombings that left 32 dead in the country's worst peace-time atrocity.France is to hold a separate trial for 20 people charged over the Paris attacks in September 2021, prosecutors have said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/belgium-to-try-14-over-2015-paris-attacks-101614165015046.html
24-02-2021||World||Experts suggest UK coronavirus variant likely to fuel another surge in US come spring: Report||Some US experts have predicted that the coronavirus variant, B.1.1.7, first detected in the United Kingdom is likely to drive a new wave of transmission in the spring, according to a CNN report. The variant was suspected behind the renewed surge in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in the UK and, as per the World Health Organisation (WHO), was later identified in several countries around the world. The UN health agency, in its latest situation report, said that the variant of concern has been reported from 101 countries across all six WHO regions.In a series of tweets, Trevor Bedford, a scientist who works with the Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, had earlier said that he expects the trend of increase in immunity due to natural infection and vaccination to "largely continue". However, he added that the rapid take-off of B.1.1.7 will push against these gains. Citing multiple studies, Bedford said that B.1.1.7 will reach 50 per cent frequency in the US by late March.“Increased transmissibility of B.1.1.7 will certainly stretch out circulation of Covid-19 and make it harder to bring under control relative to the non-B.1.1.7 scenario, but I'm not sure at this point how much of a spring B.1.1.7 wave to expect,” he tweeted, adding that it will become clear shortly as they observe the trajectory of countries like Denmark and Switzerland.I do think this will become clear shortly as we observe what happens in countries like Denmark and Switzerland or states like Florida which are farther along on their B.1.1.7 trajectories relative to the US as a whole. 13/13On Tuesday, Bedford told CNN that the UK variant could result in “more of a wave” around April or May, adding that vaccination and other social distancing measures will help prevent further transmission. Dr Josh Schiffer, an infectious diseases expert at Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, echoed Bedford’s opinion, saying prevention of a “fourth wave altogether” is “going to be difficult” due to the highly infectious nature of variants.The United States has reported more than 28 million Covid-19 cases and over 502,000 related deaths so far. According to the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), the United States has reported 1881 cases of UK variant across 45 states, the highest number of cases among the variants of concern followed by 46 cases of South African variant B.1.351 in 14 states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-coronavirus-variant-likely-to-fuel-another-surge-in-us-come-spring-report-101614163242131.html
24-02-2021||World||US seeks to return to UN human rights body||The United States will seek election to the UN Human Rights Council later this year, UN Secretary of State Antony Blinken said on Wednesday, marking the Biden administration's latest international re-engagement.Blinken, addressing the council by recorded video, said that President Joseph Biden's administration would work to eliminate what he called the Geneva forum's "disproportionate focus" on US ally Israel.Also read: US state secretary, Abdullah discuss ways of accelerating Afghan peace processUnder former President Donald Trump, the United States quit the council in June 2018 but the Biden government returned as an observer earlier this month."I’m pleased to announce the United States will seek election to the Human Rights Council for the 2022-24 term. We humbly ask for the support of all UN member states in our bid to return to a seat in this body," Blinken said.Annual elections for three-year membership on the 47-member council are due to be held at the UN General Assembly in October. Britain, China and Russia are among current members."As the United States re-engages, we urge the Human Rights Council to look at how it conducts its business. That includes its disproportionate focus on Israel," Blinken said.The council, set up in 2006, has a stand-alone item on the Palestinian territories on its agenda every session, the only issue with such treatment, which both Democratic and Republican administrations have opposed||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-seeks-to-return-to-un-human-rights-body-101614161629364.html
24-02-2021||World||Chinese official calls for 'joint efforts' in China-US trade||China’s commerce minister appealed to Washington for “joint efforts” to revive trade but gave no indication Wednesday when tariff war talks might resume or whether Beijing might offer concessions.“Cooperation is the only correct choice,” Wang Wentao said at a news conference.President Joe Biden has yet to announce a strategy for dealing with Beijing but is widely expected to renew pressure on trade and technology complaints that prompted his predecessor, Donald Trump, to raise taxes on Chinese imports.Wang said he looked forward to “joint efforts” to “push bilateral economic and trade relations back to the track of cooperation.” He noted President Xi Jinping talked with Biden by phone on Feb. 11 but gave no indication when negotiations might resume.Washington and Beijing have raised tariffs on billions of dollars of each other's goods, disrupting global trade. They agreed last January to postpone further penalties but most taxes already imposed stayed in place.Beijing agreed to narrow its trade surplus with the United States by purchasing more American soybeans and other exports. It fell short of the targets set due to the coronavirus pandemic and bought about 55% of the promised goods.China’s foreign trade situation is “severe and complicated,” Wang said. He said Beijing is launching e-commerce and other initiatives to encourage sales. One focus will be markets in its “Belt and Road Initiative” to build ports, railways and other trade-related infrastructure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinese-official-calls-for-joint-efforts-in-china-us-trade-101614159755765.html
24-02-2021||World||Oil prices slip on surprise build in US crude stocks||Oil prices were lower on Wednesday after industry data showed a surprise build in US crude stocks last week as a deep freeze in the southern states curbed demand from refineries that were forced to shut.Crude stockpiles rose by 1 million barrels in the week to Feb. 19, the American Petroleum Institute (API) reported on Tuesday, against estimates for a draw of 5.2 million barrels in a Reuters poll.API data showed refinery crude runs fell by 2.2 million bpd.Brent crude futures slipped by 6 cents, or 0.1%, to $65.31 a barrel at 0748 GMT, but narrowed losses earlier in the session that sent it to as low as $64.80.US West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude futures were down 29 cents or 0.5% at $61.38 a barrel, after trading as low as $60.97 earlier on Wednesday.But Brent may rise into a range of $66.45-$66.97 per barrel again, as suggested by its wave pattern and a projection analysis, said Reuters technical analyst Wang Tao."The key question is how quickly does US oil supply recover," Commonwealth Bank analyst Vivek Dhar said."It looks like supply will recover faster than refineries, and supply is going to outpace demand in the next few weeks. That will give negative weight to the market."Investors will be awaiting confirmation from the US Energy Information Administration later on Wednesday that crude inventories rose last week, despite the hit to shale oil production amid the unprecedented icy spell in the US south.Traffic at the Houston ship channel was slowly coming back to normal but terminals were still facing several issues due to last week's freezing weather in Texas.The price retreat is being seen as a pause following a rally of more than 26% to 13-month highs in both Brent and WTI since the start of the year."This rally has certainly overshot itself... We are at levels much higher than pre-Covid and demand nowhere near those levels," said Sukrit Vijayakar, director of energy consultancy Trifecta.Prices have jumped due to the US supply disruption and supply discipline by the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries and allies, together called OPEC+, led by an extra 1 million bpd cut by Saudi Arabia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/oil-prices-slip-on-surprise-build-in-us-crude-stocks-101614157511391.html
24-02-2021||World||Strong exports, construction boost German economy in fourth quarter||Strong exports and solid construction activity helped the German economy to grow by a stronger-than-expected 0.3% in the final quarter of last year, the Federal Statistics Office said on Wednesday, revising up an earlier estimate.The office, which previously had reported a 0.1% expansion over the previous quarter, also revised upward its 2020 full-year GDP figure for Europe's largest economy to -4.9% from -5.0%.Adjusted for calendar effects, the economy shrank by 5.3% last year, a much smaller contraction than in many other European countries, helped by a strong fiscal response to the damage caused by the Covid-19 pandemic.A debt-financed fiscal splurge created an overall state budget deficit of 139.6 billion euros or 4.2% of gross domestic product in 2020, the office said. This was the first deficit since 2011 and the second-highest since German reunification.The fourth quarter expansion followed a record quarterly growth rate of 8.5% in the third and an unprecedented plunge of 9.7% in the second, due to the effects of Germany's first lockdown to slow the coronavirus pandemic.The second lockdown, imposed at the beginning of November on bars, restaurants and entertainment venues and expanded in mid-December to include most shops and services, caused a plunge in household spending in the fourth quarter, the office said.Disposable income rose slightly, however, thanks to job protection schemes and state aid for parents. As the lockdown prevented many consumers from spending, the savings rate posted an unusually high reading of 15.7%.Exports grew by 4.5% on the quarter while household spending fell by 3.3%. This meant net trade contributed 0.6 percentage points to the overall growth rate, whereas sluggish domestic activity subtracted 0.3 percentage points, the office said.Investments in construction rose 1.8% on the quarter, the office said.Thomas Gitzel from VP Bank said low interest rates had helped the construction industry to continue to prosper while the export-oriented manufacturing sector had benefited from growing orders from Chinese customers.The outlook remains clouded because German authorities have extended the stricter lockdown until at least March 7."Going forward, we stick to our forecast of a 1.5% decline in the first quarter of 2021, mainly due to the negative effects on overall economic activity from the extended and tightened lockdown," UniCredit said in a research note.Carsten Brzeski from ING said that stricter lockdown measures since mid-December, harsh winter weather in February, a reversal of pre-Brexit hoarding in the UK and weaker foreign demand, at least from other euro zone countries, had increased the downside risk for the first quarter of 2021."The growth drivers of the fourth quarter could easily become drags in the first," Brzeski cautioned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/strong-exports-construction-boost-german-economy-in-fourth-quarter-101614156897389.html
24-02-2021||World||Biden administration withdraws from transgender athlete case||The Biden administration has withdrawn government support for a federal lawsuit in Connecticut that seeks to ban transgender athletes from participating in girls' high school sports.Connecticut allows high school athletes to compete in sports according to their gender identity. The lawsuit was filed a year ago by several cisgender runners who argue they have been deprived of wins, state titles and athletic opportunities by being forced to compete against two transgender sprinters.The Justice Department and the Education Department's Office for Civil Rights withdrew their support for the case ahead of a hearing scheduled for Friday on a motion to dismiss the lawsuit.The Trump administration’s intervention in the case last year came as state legislatures around the country debated restricting transgender athletes’ participation to their gender assigned at birth. Seventeen states considered such legislation, and Idaho passed a law. The Republican-controlled Mississippi legislature overwhelmingly approved a similar bill earlier this month.Supporters of restrictions on transgender athletes argue that transgender girls, because they were born male, are naturally stronger, faster and bigger than those born female.Last March, then-Attorney General William Barr signed what is known as a statement of interest in the Connecticut lawsuit, arguing the state's policy runs afoul of Title IX, the federal law that allows girls equal educational opportunities, including in athletics.In a filing Tuesday, Connecticut US Attorney John Durham and other department officials withdrew Barr's statement, saying, “The government has reconsidered the matter.”Attorneys for the plaintiffs declined to comment.The Connecticut Interscholastic Athletic Conference has said it is following a state law that requires all high school students be treated according to their gender identity.The Education Department's Office for Civil Rights last spring and summer sent letters threatening to cut off some federal funding to Connecticut school districts that followed the policy.On Tuesday, the office notified those involved that it was withdrawing those letters “as well as the underlying findings and determinations,” and does not wish to become a party in the lawsuit.On his first day in office, President Joe Biden signed an executive order prohibiting discrimination based on gender identity in school sports and elsewhere. Former president Donald Trump had rolled back protections for transgender people while in office.Dan Barrett, a lawyer for the American Civil Liberties Union of Connecticut, which represents the two transgender athletes in the lawsuit, said Tuesday's action represents “a hint that the government, the Department of Education, may now have a different view of Title IX.”CIAC executive director Glenn Lungarini has said the organization’s transgender policy was formed with federal and state guidance and that multiple courts and federal agencies, including the Justice Department, had previously acknowledged that the term “sex” in Title IX is ambiguous.Connecticut Attorney General William Tong said Tuesday he was pleased with the Justice Department's decision to withdraw Barr's statement.“Transgender girls are girls and every woman and girl deserves protection against discrimination. Period,” he said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-administration-withdraws-from-transgender-athlete-case-101614157058368.html
24-02-2021||World||Crowd greets Joko Widodo in NTT, buzz on social media as Covid-19 surges||Indonesian president Joko Widodo is at the centre of a storm after appearing in public at a time when the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic is ravaging through the country.The President visited East Nusa Tenggara (NTT), the southernmost province of Indonesia, where the crowd gathered around his car to greet him. Many local television stations showed images of President Widodo waving to the crowd from the roof of the car.The images soon spread on the social media, with many critics of the president questioning his appearance in public and putting the lives of the locals at risk.Kunjungan Presiden @jokowi di Maumere (Flores) hari ini tanpa prokes?! 😷🥱 pic.twitter.com/2J2A63ECBUWidodo and his supporters were seen wearing masks in the video, but the lack of social distancing is being criticised by many. The president was in the province to inaugurate a dam. He was the first person to be inoculated in Indonesia in January.The pandemic has slammed Southeast Asia's biggest economy, with Indonesia witnessing its first annual contraction since the 1998 Asian financial crisis. The regional currency crisis had forced the resignation of its long-term dictator Suharto in 1998.The country's gross domestic product fell down 2.07 percent in 2020 from a year earlier, the country's statistics agency said. Transportation and Tourism are among the hardest-hit sectors.The country has some of the worst virus infection rates in Asia, and President Joko Widodo has been widely criticised over his government's handling of the pandemic.Several million Indonesians have been laid off as the central bank repeatedly cut interest rates in a bid to spur growth.On Tuesday, Indonesia recorded 9,775 new cases of Covid-19, which pushed the countrywide tally to 1,298,608. The death toll too increased by 323 to 35,014, the health ministry said.The virus has spread to all the country's 34 provinces.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/crowd-greets-joko-widodo-in-ntt-buzz-on-social-media-as-covid-19-surges-101614156983154.html
24-02-2021||World||Official says Nepal PM Oli in no mood to resign, prepared to face Parliament||Nepal Prime Minister K P Sharma Oli will not resign immediately and implement the Supreme Court’s verdict against him by facing Parliament that is due to convene within two weeks, an official representing the embattled premier said on Wednesday.In a landmark ruling, a five-member constitutional bench led by Chief Justice Cholendra Shumsher on Tuesday annulled the Oli government's "unconstitutional" decision to dissolve the 275-member lower house of Parliament. The court also ordered the government to summon the House session within the next 13 days.Nepal plunged into a political crisis on December 20 after President Bidya Devi Bhandari dissolved the House and announced fresh elections on April 30 and May 10 at the recommendation of Prime Minister Oli, amidst a tussle for power within the ruling Nepal Communist Party (NCP).Oli's Press Advisor Surya Thapa said the prime minister, who turned 69 this week, intends to implement the verdict of the apex court after facing Parliament that is due to convene within two weeks."The Supreme Court's verdict is controversial, however, it should be accepted and implemented. Its effects will be seen in the future as the decision has not provided any solution to the political problems," Thapa said.He claimed that the apex court's verdict will further fuel instability and pave way for power-play."The Prime Minister will face the House of Representatives to implement the verdict but will not tender his resignation as of now," Thapa was quoted as saying by The Himalayan Times.Oli's Chief Advisor Bishnu Rimal, mirroring Thapa's sentiments, said that all will have to accept the court's decision. "However, it provides no solution to existing political complications," Rimal said.Thapa’s reaction comes amid mounting pressure on the prime minister to step down following the court verdict.A large section of the Nepalese media welcomed the Supreme Court's verdict that reinstated the dissolved House of Representatives. They hailed the decision, saying it has upheld democratic values and safeguarded the Constitution."By passing a judgment, the Supreme Court has once again stood by the people, and reestablished the notion of an independent judiciary,” wrote The Kathmandu Post in its editorial.""Now the House has been reinstated and the politics will return to Parliament, the problems are not yet over. There are too many players in the House with no one controlling the majority and the risk of the dirty game of horse-trading could start soon," the daily warned.Naya Patrika daily termed the ruling a “defeat for an autocratic ruler” and a “victory for democracy and a challenge for the future.”"If both the factions of the Communist Party of Nepal (CPN) could utilise the opportunity created by the House reinstatement in a constructive way, it would benefit all the party, the cadres and leaders of the party as well as the entire nation," the Annapurna Post said in its editorial."One should use conscience so that the country would not plunge into another political crisis and confrontation," it said.Meanwhile, Vice-president of the CPN Bamdev Gautam, who has so far maintained a balance between Oli and his rivals Prachanda and Madhav Kumar Nepal, has urged the prime minister to step down."As the court verdict has proven that the PM's step was unconstitutional, he must resign immediately," Gautam said.Bhim Rawal, the Sudurpaschim in-charge of the Dahal-Nepal faction of Nepal Communist Party (NCP), has said on Wednesday Oli should apologise to the people."KP Sharma Oli should personally apologise to the nation for dissolving the parliament. If he resigns from the post of Prime Minister on moral grounds and asks for forgiveness from NCP, then only can the party become positive towards him," The Himalayan Times quoted Rawal as saying.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nepal-pm-oli-in-no-mood-to-resign-prepared-to-face-parliament-official-101614156894750.html
24-02-2021||World||Philippines to probe use of illegal Covid-19 vaccines||The Philippines health ministry said on Wednesday it will investigate the illegal use of unauthorised COVID-19 vaccines, after a presidential advisor admitted to receiving shots of a Sinopharm vaccine smuggled into the country.Ramon Tulfo, a celebrity radio and television host and special envoy to China, revealed in his newspaper column on Feb. 20 and again in an interview with One News that he received a dose in October from a batch that was also used by President Rodrigo Duterte's security detail."I got hold of vaccines from a friend who smuggled it into the country," Tulfo told One News.News last month of Duterte's bodyguard unit taking the vaccine, which it said was without the president's knowledge, prompted criticism from lawmakers about privileged access and flouting of laws.Several government officials also received Sinopharm shots, Tulfo said, adding to speculation that vaccines were available on the black market.The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has not approved use of the Sinopharm vaccine, making its importation and distribution illegal. Sinopharm has not sought emergency use authorisation in the Philippines."We are investigating because it's not good to learn of these inoculations that did not go through proper procedures," FDA chief Rolando Enrique Domingo said.Philippine Health Undersecretary Rosario Vergeire said recipients of unauthorised vaccines were also accountable.Calls to Sinopharm in China were unanswered, and a spokeswoman for its unit developing Covid-19 vaccines has yet to respond to written queries.Tulfo, 74, said he had wanted to test the vaccine's efficacy as he was applying to be a distributor."I don't feel guilty about it," he said.The Philippines has yet to start immunisations or receive any Covid-19 vaccines that it has approved for emergency use, despite having one of highest number of cases and deaths in Asia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/philippines-to-probe-use-of-illegal-covid-19-vaccines-101614153976953.html
24-02-2021||World||Republican voters’ post-riot departure helps Trump loyalists cement grip||Tens of thousands of Republicans have left the party in the weeks since the Jan. 6 riot at the US Capitol, a move that sidelines members who could have loosened Donald Trump’s ever-tightening grip on the GOP.In six key states, 57,000 voters have quit the GOP, becoming Democrats, Libertarians or just unaffiliated, according to a Bloomberg analysis. Nationally, some estimates put the number at more than 100,000.That’s a sliver of the 74.2 million people who voted for Trump in November, but some Republican leaders, like Arkansas Governor Asa Hutchinson, see the departures as a “warning sign.”Yet the actual effect on partisan politics might be the opposite of what was intended. The remaining Republicans are likely to be those most loyal to Trump -- which could help Trump-backed candidates get elected in primaries that often are decided by just a few votes. And in states that favor Republicans, that could bolster their chances in a general election.Polls show Trump’s role in encouraging supporters who stormed the Capitol on Jan. 6 has tarnished the Republican brand nationally. Still, three quarters of Republicans are telling pollsters they want the former president to continue playing a prominent role in the GOP.Trump, unlike other recent ex-presidents, is making a clear bid to continue leading his party, starting with a speech in Florida on Sunday to the Conservative Political Action Conference. He’s also vowing to punish Republicans who criticized him over the Jan. 6 riot and is pledging to support their challengers in GOP primaries.That’s where the departures could make a difference. With fewer moderates in the party, it becomes more beholden to Trump’s populist base -- who will likely stay engaged -- ahead of House and Senate elections next year.The shifting dynamics could sway the outcome of Republican primaries next year in several states where most if not all the voters must be registered Republicans. The retirements of Pat Toomey in Pennsylvania and Richard Burr in North Carolina are already drawing multiple Republicans who’d like to replace them. And a possible candidate in North Carolina might be Trump’s daughter-in-law, Lara Trump.Republicans will also nominate someone to run against Democratic Senator Mark Kelly in Arizona, who’s serving a partial term. And 87-year-old Republican Chuck Grassley of Iowa plans to soon announce whether he’ll seeking re-election.In Iowa, at least 3,139 Republicans have left the party since Jan. 6 — a small percentage of the 700,000 Republicans in the state. But the all-important Iowa caucuses, which traditionally have kicked off the presidential nomination process, are often decided by hundreds of votes. Ex-Republicans would not be able to participate in the caucus and boost an anti-Trump candidate unless they rejoined the party.With lower turnout and multiple candidates, primaries are often decided by narrow margins. In 2016, a five-way Republican primary for a Colorado Senate seat was decided by 45,725 votes. That same year, even John McCain, the celebrated Arizona senator and one-time GOP standard-bearer, had to fight off three challengers whose combined totals came within 13,909 votes of him.The tarnished image of the GOP since Trump encouraged throngs of his supporters to march on the Capitol and “stop the steal” has inspired even some Republican officeholders to move on.In reliably conservative Arkansas, State Senator Jim Hendren — a possible candidate for governor next year against Trump’s former press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders — announced that he, too, was leaving the Republican Party because of Trump’s actions on Jan. 6.“For me, that day was the final straw,” Hendren said in a video posted on YouTube. “I asked myself, what in the world would I tell my grandchildren when they ask one day, what happened and what did I do about it?”Hutchinson, who is Hendren’s uncle, said he would stay in the party but his nephew’s decision and that of other Republicans concerned him.“It’s certainly a warning sign to us that there’s many out there that would like to see a more civil dialogue,” he told CNN’s State of the Union. “So, it saddens me, but, at the same time, I respect his decision.”‘Show My Displeasure’Party registration numbers often fluctuate as new voters register, inactive ones are purged or as others cross over to vote in a party primary.But the party switching that began Jan. 6 seemed to be a new phenomenon, enabled in part by the ease of switching registration online.Robert Farnham, 51, a financial services consultant from Charlotte, North Carolina, who said he had been a registered Republican from when he voted for George H.W. Bush in 1988, seized the opportunity.“I saw myself as a middle-of-the road independent,” Farnham said.“And then the Capitol thing was just a nightmare. Seeing that, it really solidified my thinking that where the Republican Party is today is not where it was in the 80s,” he added. “I thought one of the ways I could show my displeasure is to make that statement from a party registration standpoint.”On Jan. 20 — Joe Biden’s inauguration day -- Farnham formally joined the Democratic Party.He is typical of North Carolina Republican defectors. Those leaving the party in the increasingly bipartisan state are overwhelmingly white and mostly male with an average age of 49. And they’re mostly suburban, concentrated in precincts surrounding Charlotte, Raleigh and Durham, the kind of voters Democrats need to win over.Unlike Farnham, most former Republicans decided to remain unaffiliated, meaning they could participate in either primary.In Colorado, 11 Republicans have quit for every Democrat who’s left, according to data compiled by Benjamin Engen, a Colorado economist and Republican strategist. That’s a departure from the past four years, when traditional Republicans who dropped out were largely replaced by the kind of populist blue-collar voter that Trump brought into the party, Engen said.Fewer than 5% of the departing Republicans in Colorado have registered as Democrats. The rest are unaffiliated or have registered with a third party. In Colorado’s semi-closed primary system, those unaffiliated voters can vote in either party’s primary but are less likely to vote Republican.“It’s that vocal minority who’s going to show up and vote in a primary election,” Engen said. “There’s no incentive to have a moderating voice.”Party registrations are often a lagging indicator of people’s actual voting patterns, said Matthew Thornburg, a political scientist at the University of South Carolina Aiken who studies voter behavior. But party registrations can also bind people to a party long after their attitudes shift.“These people might have been Biden voters anyway, and then this attack happened at the Capitol and they finally said, ‘I’ve got to do something,’” he said.“But if these voters are people who are being turned off by the Trumpiness of the Republican Party, then they’re being removed from the pool of voters in the Republican primaries.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/republican-voters-post-riot-departure-helps-trump-loyalists-cement-grip-101614153917717.html
24-02-2021||World||Iraq's struggling Christians hope for boost from pope visit||Nasser Banyameen speaks about his hometown of Qaraqosh in the historical heartland of Iraqi Christianity with nostalgia. Before Islamic State group fighters swept through the Nineveh Plains in northern Iraq. Before the militants shattered his sense of peace. Before panicked relatives and neighbours fled, some never to return.Iraq’s Christian communities in the area were dealt a severe blow when they were scattered by the IS onslaught in 2014, further shrinking the country's already dwindling Christian population. Many hope their struggle to endure will get a boost from a historic visit by Pope Francis planned in March.Among the places on his itinerary is Qaraqosh, where this week Vatican and Iraqi flags fluttered from light poles, some adorned with the pope’s image.Francis’ visit, his first foreign trip since the coronavirus pandemic and the first ever by a pope to Iraq, is a sign that “You’re not alone,” said Monsignor Segundo Tejado Muñoz, the undersecretary of the Vatican’s development office. “There’s someone who is thinking of you, who is with you. And these signs are so important. So important.”The IS juggernaut and the long war to drive the militants out left ransacked homes and charred or pulverized buildings around the north. But the biggest loss perhaps has been the people. Traditionally Christian towns across the Nineveh Plains virtually emptied out and, by some of the widely varying estimates, fewer than half of the Christians who fled have returned.The Vatican and the pope have frequently insisted on the need to preserve Iraq’s ancient Christian communities and create the security, economic and social conditions for those who have left to return.To do that, the Vatican for years has helped coordinate a network of Catholic non-governmental organizations providing help in the field in Iraq and other countries, including in education, health care and reconstruction. The aid is non-denominational — Muslims are helped as well as Christians -- and the overall hope is that the delicate interfaith balance can be preserved and strengthened. The pope’s March 5-8 visit will also have a strong interfaith component.“People want to look for a better future for their families, so you can’t stop them if they have the intention of going somewhere else,” Tejado said. “But at least we try to create the conditions they might return.”That could be difficult.Many Christians who fled the IS advance have either stayed in Iraq’s Kurdistan region or started new lives abroad. While those who have returned have been rebuilding fractured but vibrant communities with resolve, some still feel vulnerable and eye better lives elsewhere.Banyameen returned in 2019 from the Kurdish region to his house in Qaraqosh, also known as Bakhdida. But many family members who fled like him ended up in Australia and Germany. IS sleeper cells still carry out attacks in parts of Iraq, so he worries about the specter of a militant resurgence, the future of his three children and Iraq’s economic and security woes.“The homeland is the family, not the house ... I feel very homesick,” he said. “When something is broken, it doesn’t go back to the way it used to be.”Their home has been repaired, but the sight of empty or damaged ones on their street reminds his wife, Ban Saeed, of the IS reign of terror. After she gave birth to the couple’s third child in December, she wondered if it would have been better for their daughter to have been born abroad.“If we left, I am sure their future would be better abroad, not like here,” she said. “There would be safety and I wouldn’t be scared for them when they come and go.”In nearby Bartella, Sargon Issa said he felt the town’s spirit dim with so many familiar faces gone.“Walking down a street, I used to salute so many people, friends and neighbors. Now, there’s hardly any of that,” said Issa. “Life is not like before. There’s no flavor to it. ... Even those Christians who have returned to Bartella say they want to leave to find stability.”He, too, would like to leave if he could; his mother tells him she wants to die in Iraq.“I try to change her mind and tell her, ‘Let’s travel and live without worry or fear ... somewhere where we wouldn’t be driven out of our homes,’” he said. “She tells me we should stay, and that God is with us.”The numerical decline and waning clout of Iraqi Christians started before the Islamic State’s persecution of religious minorities like theirs. Christians were among groups targeted by militants amid the breakdown in security after the 2003 U.S.-led invasion that overthrew Saddam Hussein.The Chaldean Catholic Patriarch, Cardinal Louis Raphael Sako, estimated that 1 million Christians have left Iraq since 2003 and about 500,000 remained. But there are no official figures, and estimates vary: Some put the number left at fewer than 250,000.Without faith the government can provide security from potential violence, legal protections and economic opportunities, many Christians are wary of returning.William Warda, co-founder of Hammurabi Human Rights Organization in Baghdad, said the Christian presence is under threat. “To this day, they don’t feel safe and secure ... because the state is weak, and the rule of law is weak.”Some Christians lament broken trust with some Muslims in neighboring villages who they believe sympathized with IS or helped pillage their homes. They are also wary of the ascension of largely Shiite militias and fearful of what they say are unfavourable demographic changes in some traditionally Christian areas.Etched in the minds of many are the memories of the flight to escape IS, the indignities of displacement and the scenes of devastation that awaited those who returned, including burnt out churches and desecrated tombs.As he left under cover of darkness shortly before the militants entered his town of Karamlis in 2014, the Rev. Thabet Habeb felt pain for all that he was leaving behind. He took little besides some manuscripts, including a Bible.“It was as if we had been expelled forever from the lands of our grandfathers.”More than two years would pass before Habeb could set foot in the town. The smell of smoke from burnt out structures still hung in the air. In November 2016, he held prayers at the St. Adday church, the sound of broken glass crunching beneath the feet of worshippers stunned by the damage around them. Decapitated statues of Jesus and Virgin Mary stood in the scarred church that day; one woman wept bitterly.Much reconstruction has taken place since. But so far, only about 345 of about 820 Christian families in pre-2014 Karamlis have returned, Habeb said.“We need to restore our numbers to support the Christian presence and identity in the town,” he said.Those who did come back make sure an ancient heritage and a way of life endure.At St. Paul’s House for Church Services in Qaraqosh, religious paintings and musical instruments were burned and a statue of Jesus hurled to the ground, said the Rev. Duraid Barber, the former manager.But the house’s activities, which include religious classes and teaching the Syriac language, have been revived and even expanded.“We decided to return and serve this wounded and pained country to the last drop of our blood,” he said. “As Christians, we believe that we are like the salt that adds flavour to food.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/iraqs-struggling-christians-hope-for-boost-from-pope-visit-101614147530254.html
24-02-2021||World||Trump appointed Judge bans enforcement of Biden's 100-day deportation pause||A federal judge late Tuesday indefinitely banned President Joe Biden's administration from enforcing a 100-day moratorium on most deportations.US District Judge Drew Tipton issued a preliminary injunction sought by Texas, which argued the moratorium violated federal law and risked imposing additional costs on the state.Biden proposed the 100-day pause on deportations during his campaign as part of a larger review of immigration enforcement and an attempt to reverse the priorities of former President Donald Trump. Biden has proposed a sweeping immigration bill that would allow the legalisation of an estimated 11 million people living in the US illegally. He has also instituted other guidelines on whom immigration and border agents should target for enforcement.Tipton, a Trump appointee, initially ruled on Jan. 26 that the moratorium violated federal law on administrative procedure and that the US failed to show why a deportation pause was justified. A temporary restraining order the judge issued was set to expire Tuesday.Tipton's ruling did not require deportations to resume at their previous pace. Even without a moratorium, immigration agencies have wide latitude in enforcing removals and processing cases.But in the days that followed his ruling, authorities deported 15 people to Jamaica and hundreds of others to Central America. The Biden administration has also continued expelling immigrants under a separate process begun by Trump officials, who invoked public-health law due to the coronavirus pandemic.The legal fight over the deportation ban is an early sign of Republican opposition to Biden’s immigration priorities, just as Democrats and pro-immigrant legal groups fought Trump’s proposals. Almost four years before Tipton’s order, Trump signed a ban on travel from seven countries with predominantly Muslim populations that caused chaos at airports. Legal groups successfully sued to stop implementation of the ban.It was not immediately clear if the Biden administration will appeal Tipton's latest ruling. The Justice Department did not seek a stay of Tipton's earlier temporary restraining order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-appointed-judge-bans-enforcement-of-biden-s-100-day-deportation-pause-101614152141833.html
24-02-2021||World||Jaishankar wishes Estonia on its National Day||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Wednesday extended greetings to the Estonian Foreign Minister Eva-Maria Liimets and citizens on the occasion of their National Day.Jaishankar tagged Eva-Maria Liimets, Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Estonia in his tweet and wished the people of Estonia on their 103rd Independence Day anniversary."Warm wishes to FM Eva-Maria Liimets and the Government and people of Estonia as they celebrate their National Day," tweeted Jaishankar.He further assured his counterpart of opening the Indian Mission in Estonia"Opening our resident Embassy will take our ties even further," he added.The decision to open the Indian Mission in Estonia was taken by the Union Cabinet in 2021 to strengthen ties.The decision had been awaited since 2013, when Estonia set up its embassy in Delhi, while India has dealt with it through its embassy in neighbouring Finland.India and Estonia will also serve together in the Security Council next year.From 1918 to 1920, Estonia was caught in the War of Independence against Soviet Russia and on 24th February 1918 it declared statehood, which is commemorated as its National Day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/jaishankar-wishes-estonia-on-its-national-day-101614147465273.html
24-02-2021||World||US, Bangladesh to address challenges in S Asia, greater Indo-Pacific region||US Secretary of State Antony Blinken spoke with Bangladesh Foreign Minister AK Abdul Momen and the two leaders discussed ways to deepen economic, defence and counterterrorism cooperation while agreeing to work together to address challenges in South Asia and the greater Indo-Pacific region.Blinken called Momen over the phone on Tuesday. During their call, they discussed Myanmar, a durable solution to the Rohingya refugee crisis, and the importance of respect for labour and human rights.Blinken and Momen discussed ways to deepen economic, counterterrorism, and defence cooperation, and work together to address common challenges such as climate change, State Department Spokesperson Ned Price said in a readout of the call."Blinken congratulated Foreign Minister Momen on Bangladesh’s fiftieth anniversary of independence in 2021, and both leaders expressed the desire for closer collaboration to address challenges in South Asia and the greater Indo-Pacific region,” Price said.Also read: US state secretary, Abdullah discuss ways of accelerating Afghan peace process“Good to speak with Foreign Minister AK Abdul Momen and congratulate him on Bangladesh's 50th anniversary of independence. We affirmed the strong, enduring US-Bangladesh relationship and look forward to working together to address challenges in South Asia and the Indo-Pacific,” Blinken said in a tweet.India, the US and several other world powers have been talking about the need to ensure a free, open and thriving Indo-Pacific in the backdrop of China's rising military manoeuvring in the region.In 2017, India, Australia, Japan and the US gave shape to the long-pending proposal of setting up the "Quad" or the Quadrilateral coalition to counter China's aggressive behaviour in the Indo-Pacific region.China claims nearly all of the disputed South China Sea, though Taiwan, the Philippines, Brunei, Malaysia and Vietnam all claim parts of it. Beijing has built artificial islands and military installations in the South China Sea.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-bangladesh-to-address-challenges-in-s-asia-greater-indo-pacific-region-101614145575116.html
24-02-2021||World||Experts fear fresh wave of political prisoners in Myanmar||Whether taken from their homes in the middle of the night or grabbed off the streets during protests, hundreds of people have been arrested in the weeks since Myanmar’s military coup, leading human rights groups and experts to fear a sizable expansion in the number of political prisoners in the country.As of Tuesday, some 696 people — including monks, writers, activists, politicians and others — had been arrested in relation to the coup, according to the Assistance Association for Political Prisoners, or AAPP, a Myanmar-based organization.Many of those arrested were charged using a legacy of laws — some dating back to British colonial times and others instituted under previous military regimes — that have been used against critics by every government, including the one led by Aung San Suu Kyi's National League for Democracy party, which was ousted in the Feb. 1 coup.“The National League for Democracy was comfortable leaving repressive laws on the books because in some instances they felt they might be able to take advantage of those laws themselves,” said Ronan Lee, a visiting scholar at Queen Mary University of London’s International State Crime Initiative.“It’s now clear that some of those laws are now going to be weaponized against democracy campaigners in a way that maybe the National League for Democracy didn’t foresee,” Lee said.While the military continues to use and amend old laws to crack down on dissidents, new laws are being introduced as well, signalling the military's intent to continue arresting protesters.The hundreds arrested since the coup join the already hundreds of political prisoners in the country who were imprisoned both under the previous junta and the National League for Democracy, or NLD.“We have now seen not just a new generation of political prisoners, but also the retargeting of former political prisoners,” said Manny Maung, a Myanmar researcher at New York-based Human Rights Watch.During the NLD’s rule, journalists, critics of the military and the government, and others were charged under colonial-era laws. According to the AAPP, Myanmar had over 700 political prisoners as of Jan. 31, with hundreds being charged during the NLD's time in power.Many of the repressive laws used against dissidents date back to the country’s colonial era.After over 120 years of British colonial rule, Myanmar, then called Burma, became an independent republic in 1948. Though no longer a British territory, the country retained many of its colonial-era laws, which were “designed in nature to be repressive and silence political opponents,” said Nick Cheeseman, a fellow at the Department of Political and Social Change at Australian National University.In 1962, the military took control of the country through a coup, and it remained under junta rule for decades. Under the junta, people were regularly imprisoned for speaking out against the military. Those arrested were often sent to prison for years, and torture — including beatings, waterboarding, and deprivation of food and sleep — was commonplace, according to the AAPP. Suu Kyi was kept under house arrest for 15 years over a 21-year period during this time.Before democratic reforms eventually took place — a period during which Suu Kyi was released from house arrest, her political party agreed to participate in 2012 by-elections and press censorship was softened — Amnesty International estimated that Myanmar had more than 1,000 political prisoners, calling it “one of the highest of such populations worldwide.”In the years following Suu Kyi’s 2010 release from house arrest, a prisoner amnesty led to the freeing of thousands of inmates, including some 200 political prisoners, while others remained incarcerated.Also read: Myanmar faces more protests as Indonesian diplomatic efforts falterFor many observers, this signalled hope for further reforms, a view bolstered when Suu Kyi’s party took power following a landslide victory in 2015 elections.But hope quickly dissipated in the years that followed, as repressive laws widely stayed on the books and political prisoners remained without official recognition.The lack of repealing hard criminal codes left some free-speech and other activist groups upset in Myanmar, but “really didn’t impact how many in the West interacted with Aung San Suu Kyi” or her government, said Lee, the scholar.“What the military is trying to do is use the laws to add some legitimacy to their illegitimate grab for power and the NLD gave them an opportunity to do that by leaving old laws intact,” Lee said. “But there’s also no question that if these laws didn’t work for the military, they’d still find other ways of arresting people.”Since this month's coup, the military has also amended old penal codes and proposed new laws that experts say could be used as further tools to crack down on dissidents.For example, amendments made on Feb. 14 to the country’s Penal Code sections on High Treason state that people can be sentenced to “up to 20 years for planning to hinder the success of defence or law enforcement.”A controversial proposed cybersecurity law demands the elimination of online comments considered to be misinformation or disinformation that might cause “hate” or disrupt stability, and any comment that might violate any existing law. Those who are deemed to break the law can be sentenced to up to three years in prison.The legal changes “are a textbook example of a military attempting to suppress dissent,” said Bo Kyi, a former political prisoner and founder of the AAPP. “The wording of these amendments exposes quite literally anyone to imprisonment.”With the continued crackdown on anti-coup protesters — including arrests by plainclothes police in the middle of the night — prominent pro-democracy activists told The Associated Press that they have begun to stay in safehouses to avoid arrest. Others who have been arrested have not had contact with their families, and their locations remain unknown.“Conditions (for prisoners) is something that we’re really worried about," said Maung, the Human Rights Watch researcher. “We are expecting the worst, which is that people are being mistreated and possibly even tortured, because that’s what used to happen.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/experts-fear-fresh-wave-of-political-prisoners-in-myanmar-101614144003162.html
24-02-2021||World||Myanmar faces more protests as Indonesian diplomatic efforts falter||Myanmar was set for more street protests on Wednesday against military rule while Indonesia's efforts steer a path out of the crisis with the help of other Southeast Asian countries appeared to falter with a proposed diplomatic visit scrapped.This week saw huge rallies and a general strike on Monday to denounce the military's Feb. 1 coup and demand the release of elected leader Aung San Suu Kyi, despite a warning from authorities that confrontation could get people killed.On Tuesday, gatherings were smaller overall but a rally by members of different ethnic minorities was taking place in the commercial hub of Yangon, with civil servants from the energy ministry joining in."We ethnic minority people haven't had the chance to demand our rights but now we do," said San Aung Li, 26, a member of the Kachin minority."So I'm supporting the protest as all ethnic people are, with one voice."With the protest and a civil disobedience movement paralysing life in Myanmar, Indonesia has been trying to find a way out.Sources said it proposed a plan centred on members of the Association of South East Asian Nations (ASEAN) sending monitors to ensure the generals stick to their promise to hold fair elections.The military has not given a time frame for a new election but it imposed a one-year state of emergency when it seized power so it would likely be after that.But Suu Kyi's party, which swept a Nov. 8 election that the military says was marred by fraud, and its supporters want its victory recognised.Indonesia's foreign minister, Retno Marsudi, is in Thailand and had been expected to fly to Myanmar but that trip was off, her ministry said."After taking into account current developments and the input of other ASEAN countries, this is not the ideal time to conduct a visit to Myanmar," Indonesian foreign ministry spokesman, Teuku Faizasyah, told a briefing in Jakarta.On Tuesday, hundreds of protesters gathered outside Indonesia's embassy in Yangon to voice opposition to a new election, demanding that the votes they cast in November be recognised.The army seized power after alleging fraud in the November elections, detaining Suu Kyi and much of the party leadership. The electoral commission dismissed the fraud complaints.The Future Nation Alliance, a Myanmar-based activist group, said earlier in a statement a visit by Retno would be “tantamount to recognising the military junta”.The group demanded foreign officials meet Htin Lin Aung, a member of a committee representing ousted lawmakers, who has been appointed the “sole responsible official for foreign relations”.'HELD TO ACCOUNT'Indonesia's efforts to resolve the crisis comes as international concern is growing.The Group of Seven (G7) rich nations on Tuesday condemned intimidation and oppression of those opposing the coup. "Anyone responding to peaceful protests with violence must be held to account," group foreign ministers said in a statement.Western nations sought to increase pressure on the junta this week with the European Union warning it was considering sanctions that would target businesses owned by the army.The United States imposed sanctions on two more members of the junta and warned it could take more action.China, which has traditionally taken a softer line, said international action should contribute to stability, promote reconciliation and avoid complicating the situation, media reported.Military chief General Min Aung Hlaing has called for state spending and imports to be cut and exports increased to revive what he called an ailing economy.He did not link the protests to economic problems but said the authorities were following a democratic path in dealing with them and police were using minimal force, such as rubber bullets, state media reported.Security forces have shown more restraint compared with earlier crackdowns against people who had pushed for democracy during almost half a century of direct military rule.Even so, three protesters have been shot and killed. The army has said one policeman died of injuries sustained during the protests.(Reporting by Reuters Staff; Writing by Ed Davies and Robert Birsel; Editing by Lincoln Feast.)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/myanmar-faces-more-protests-as-indonesian-diplomatic-efforts-falter-101614143787187.html
24-02-2021||World||Biden would not be okay if the Taliban ruled Afghanistan: White House||US President Joe Biden would not be okay if the Taliban ruled Afghanistan, the White House has said, underlining that there is an ongoing process of considering the next steps to ensure peace in the war-torn country.The US and the Taliban reached an agreement in February 2020 that called for a permanent ceasefire, peace negotiations between the Taliban and the Afghan government, and a withdrawal of all foreign forces by May 1. There are about 2,500 US troops currently in the country.The Taliban had their ouster at the hands of US-led troops in 2001.“I don't think he would say he'd be okay with that,” White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki told reporters on Tuesday when asked if Biden is okay with the Taliban ruling Afghanistan.“But again, there's an ongoing process of considering the next steps in Afghanistan. That's an ongoing discussion, and I'm not going to get ahead of where that sits at this point in time,” Psaki said.Separately, Pentagon Press Secretary John Kirby said that Defence Secretary Lloyd Austin has been in constant communication with Afghan partners about the ongoing review process and how they are working their way through that.“We are mindful of looming deadlines here and everybody shares the sense of alacrity when it comes to working our way through this review but we want to do it in a thoughtful, deliberate way, to make sure that whatever decisions are made, they're the best ones, that are in our best national security interests and certainly the security interests of our allies and partners, and that includes the Afghan people,” he said.Meanwhile, during a Congressional hearing General (rtd) Joseph F. Dunford, former chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, told lawmakers that Talban gets its financial support from drug trade.“We know that the Taliban have had sanctuary in Pakistan. We know that they have an active diplomatic effort travelling to Moscow, travelling to Beijing, travelling to other countries. We know they travel in the Gulf. We know Iran has provided some material support,” he said.The Taliban, he said is a Sunni terrorist organisation. “There's no question that the Taliban originates from the madrassas in Pakistan,” he said in response to a question. Dunford told lawmakers that the terrorist threat has been reduced because of the US trained Afghan forces and continued US military presence.“We believe that the threat can reconstitute itself in a period of about 18 to 36 months and present a threat to the homeland and to our allies,” he said adding that the Afghan forces are highly dependent on US funding, as well as operational support. They will remain so for some time.“The probability of civil war is high in the wake of a precipitous US withdrawal,” he said, adding that Afghanistan meets the definition of a fragile state. Despite very real challenges, with support, the Afghan government can deliver minimally effective governance.Dunford, who chairs Afghan Study Group of the US Institute of Peace, told lawmakers that the Taliban were not meeting the conditionality of the February 2020 agreement. That was as a result of not seeing a broad reduction in violence and as a result of not seeing the Taliban demonstrate the will or capacity to prevent Al-Qaeda from using Afghanistan as a platform.“We are not advocating for a unilateral declaration that we remain behind after the first of May. We're recommending that the Taliban actually hear that same message from other regional stakeholders, not the least of which is China, Russia and Pakistan,” he said.“We do think that continued negotiations with the Taliban to highlight the fact that we remain committed to the February 2020 Agreement. We have demonstrated that, by drawing down to 2,500, we remain committed,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-would-not-be-okay-if-the-taliban-ruled-afghanistan-white-house-101614147583602.html
24-02-2021||World||Top board leaders resign after deadly Texas power outages||Top board leaders of Texas' embattled power grid operator said Tuesday they will resign following outrage over more than 4 million customers losing electricity last week during a deadly winter storm, including many whose frigid homes lacked heat for days in subfreezing temperatures.The resignations are the first since the crisis began in Texas, and calls for wider firings remain in the aftermath of one of the worst power outages in US history.All of the five board directors who are stepping down, including Chairwoman Sally Talberg, live outside of Texas, which only intensified criticism of the Electric Reliability Council of Texas. The resignations are effective Wednesday — a day before Texas lawmakers are expected to sharply question grid managers and energy officials about the failures during hearings at the state Capitol.Another candidate for a director position, who also does not live in Texas, said he was withdrawing his name.Four of the departing board members acknowledged “concerns about out-of-state board leadership" in a letter to grid members and the state's Public Utility Commission, which oversees ERCOT. During the crisis, ERCOT officials removed contact information for board members off its website, saying they had become the target of threats.“Our hearts go out to all Texans who have had to go without electricity, heat, and water during frigid temperatures and continue to face the tragic consequences of this emergency," the letter read.The other board members are vice chairman Peter Cramton, Terry Bulger and Raymond Hepper. Talberg lives in Michigan and Bulger lives in Wheaton, Illinois, according to their biographies on ERCOT's website. Cramton and Hepper spent their careers working outside Texas. The fifth board member leaving is Vanessa Anesetti-Parra.There are a total of 16 members on ERCOT's board, which appoints officers who manage the grid manager's day-to-day operations.Historic snowfall and single-digit temperatures in Texas last week left millions without power and water for days. The storm was part of any icy blast across the Deep South t hat is blamed for more than 80 deaths, roughly half of which were in Texas.Republican Gov. Greg Abbott has largely blamed the outages on ERCOT and called for investigations. But the problems were wider than ERCOT, including power plants that were knocked offline by the extreme cold and natural gas producers didn't protect wellheads from freezing.“The lack of preparedness and transparency at ERCOT is unacceptable, and I welcome these resignations," Abbott said in a statement. “The State of Texas will continue to investigate ERCOT and uncover the full picture of what went wrong, and we will ensure that the disastrous events of last week are never repeated.”ERCOT president Bill Magness has said Texas' power grid — which is uniquely isolated from the rest of the US — was on the brink of collapse in the early hours of Feb. 15 as power plants froze in the cold and a record demand for electricity to heat home overwhelmed the system. He has defended the outages as a necessity, while Abbott has accused ERCOT of misleading Texas about the readiness of the grid.As governor, Abbott picks the commissioners of the Public Utility Commission that oversees ERCOT. The selection of “unaffiliated” ERCOT board members — like most of those who are resigning — must be approved by the PUC.According to tax filings from 2018, Cramton received USD 87,000 in compensation and worked an average of five hours a week. Bulger got USD 65,250 and worked an average of eight hours a week. Three others on the board at the time were paid between USD 92,600 and USD 100,100, though it was not immediately known how many hours they worked. ERCOT valued Magness' total compensation that year at USD 883,264.After ERCOT removed board members' information from the website, Magness conceded it was public information in a call last week with reporters but did not describe the nature of the threats.“It was a security, safety idea," Magness said.Cramton, whose page on the professional networking site LinkedIn lists him as living in California, declined comment when contacted Tuesday. The other board members did not immediately respond to requests for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/top-board-leaders-resign-after-deadly-texas-power-outages-101614135578125.html
24-02-2021||World||No charges against officers involved in Daniel Prude's death||Police officers who put a hood over the head of a mentally distraught Black man, then pressed his body against the pavement until he stopped breathing will not face criminal charges after a grand jury declined to indict them, New York's attorney general announced Tuesday.Daniel Prude, 41, died last March, several days after his encounter with police in Rochester, New York. Police initially described his death as a drug overdose. It went mostly unnoticed. But nightly protests erupted after body camera video was released nearly six months later following pressure from Prude's family.Attorney General Letitia James, whose office took over the investigation, said her office had “presented the strongest case possible” to the grand jury, but couldn’t persuade it that the officers had committed a crime.“I know that the Prude family, the Rochester community and communities across the country will rightfully be disappointed by this outcome,” said James, who travelled to Rochester to announce the grand jury’s decision at a church near where Prude was fatally injured.She said she was bound to respect the grand jury’s decision, but she also condemned a system that she said had “frustrated efforts to hold law enforcement officers accountable for the unjustified killing of African Americans."“What binds these cases is a tragic loss of life in circumstances in which the death could have been avoided,” said James, who, like the mayor of Rochester and the city’s current and former police chiefs, is Black.“One recognizes the influences of race, from the slave codes to Jim Crow, to lynching, to the war on crime, to the overincarceration of people of color: Eric Garner, Tamir Rice, Breonna Taylor, George Floyd. And now Daniel Prude,” she said.Lawyers for the seven police officers suspended over Prude’s death have said the officers were strictly following their training that night, employing a restraining technique known as “segmenting.” They claimed Prude’s use of PCP, which caused irrational behavior, was “the root cause” of his death.Calls were made to the officers’ attorneys. Matthew Rich, who represents four officers, said “we’re still taking it in” and that the attorneys would speak to the press later.Hundreds of protesters gathered Tuesday evening on the street where Prude was detained.The March 23 video of Prude’s fatal encounter with officers was initially withheld by police in part because of concerns it would inflame street demonstrations occurring nationwide over George Floyd’s death.Ultimately released Sept. 4, it showed officers placing a mesh bag over Prude’s head to stop him from spitting after they detained him for running naked through the streets. Prude had been evaluated at a hospital for odd behavior a day earlier, but he wasn't admitted. His family called police because they were concerned about Prude's safety after he bolted from the house.One officer pushed Prude's face against the ground, while another officer pressed a knee to his back. The officers held him down for about two minutes until he fell unconscious. He was taken off life support a week later.“The system failed Daniel Prude again," Prude family lawyer Elliot Shields said of the grand jury's decision. ”It failed him on March 22 when he was released from the hospital. It failed him on the night of March 23 when the police used deadly force against him. And it failed him again today."Shields said Prude's brother, Joe Prude, was “heartbroken.”Officers Troy Taladay, Paul Ricotta, Francisco Santiago, Andrew Specksgoor, Josiah Harris and Mark Vaughn, along with Sgt. Michael Magri, were suspended after Prude’s death became public. The officers will remain on leave pending the outcome of an internal investigation, according to Rochester police chief Cynthia Herriott-Sullivan.The Rochester police union said in a statement it would not immediately comment.The grand jury decision isn't likely to end scrutiny of the Rochester Police Department, which has been heavily criticized over the past year over numerous incidents involving allegations of excessive force.James, a Democrat, said that in addition to meeting with Prude’s brother, she wanted to speak with a 9-year-old girl who was recently pepper sprayed by city police officers responding to a family dispute.The department has also been criticized for rough treatment of protesters last summer.The US Justice Department planned to review the attorney general’s findings, according to a joint statement from its Civil Rights Division, the US attorney in western New York and the FBI.“I don’t think it’s over,” said Mike Johnson, a Rochester activist who joined the protest of the grand jury decision Tuesday evening. “I don’t think this grand jury decision is the last say in seeking justice for this issue.”“This is just another slap in the face," said Johnson, noting that Tuesday was the anniversary of the death of Ahmaud Arbery, a Black man who was chased and shot by armed men in Brunswick, Georgia, one year ago.James said that for the sake of public transparency, she had asked a judge to unseal some records related to the grand jury proceeding.She also issued a report recommending, among other things, that officers be trained to recognize the symptoms of excited delirium syndrome, which can make people vulnerable to cardiac arrest. The medical examiner and the attorney general’s expert both concluded that Prude was in a state of excited delirium because of his drug use.The attorney general also called for communities to minimize or eliminate police responses to mental health calls and to find alternatives to the type of “spit sock” officers placed over Prude’s head. She said the mesh hood clearly added to Prude’s stress and agitation.A police-practices expert hired by the attorney general found some of the officers’ actions, including the “segmenting” tactic, were reasonable — but the expert said keeping Prude on his stomach for three minutes, including nearly a minute after he’d apparently vomited, “was unnecessary, unreasonable, and against accepted police practice,” James’ office said in a report.The county medical examiner listed the manner of death as homicide caused by “complications of asphyxia in the setting of physical restraint” and cited PCP as a contributing factor.Rochester's mayor, Lovely Warren, who fired police chief La’Ron Singletary over his handling of the Prude case, called the grand jury decision “hard for many of us to understand."“There are no words that can comfort a family who has lost their loved one in this tragic way," she said. "Our actions going forward will ensure that Daniel Prude’s death was not in vain.”Some activists said that they never expected the officers to face charges.“Historically, we can see when Black and brown people are killed across this nation, most times there is no indictment. However, it isn’t any less offensive, any less hurtful, any less painful,” said Ashley Gantt of Rochester, as she headed to protest the decision. “I’m disgusted."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/no-charges-against-officers-involved-in-daniel-prude-s-death-101614135645741.html
24-02-2021||World||Joe Biden names Indian-American Kiran Ahuja to head key agency||US President Joe Biden on Tuesday nominated Kiran Ahuja, an Indian-American, to head an agency that runs the federal civil service even as Neera Tanden, another of his appointees from the community, saw her path to confirmation continuing to narrow over harsh tweets in the past.Ahuja, who was born to immigrants from India and grew up in Georgia, has been named head of the office of personnel and management (OPM), a key agency that oversees the federal civil services. Her appointment will need to be confirmed by the US Senate.Ahuja, a lawyer, was executive director of the White House Initiative on Asian-Americans and Pacific Islanders in the Obama-Biden administration, and had served as the chief of staff at the agency she has been nominated to head.President Biden has appointed around two dozen Indian-Americans to senior positions.One of them, Tanden, who has been named to head the office of budget and management, is in trouble and there is talk that Biden may have to pull her nomination.More Republican senators announced their opposition to Tanden’s nomination, which was thrown at the mercy of the opposition party after Joe Manchin, a Democratic senator, came out against her, jeopardising her confirmation in an evenly divided 100-member chamber.Tanden’s Democratic support is down to 49; there are 48 Democratic senators and two independents who caucus with them. She needs the support of at least one Republican senator to compensate for Manchin’s ‘no’ vote and to get to the half-way mark of 50 from where she will need to be carried over the finish line by vice-president Kamala Harris’s tie-breaker vote.The hope was she would be bailed out by moderate Republicans who have broken with the party before, such as Susan Collins and Mitt Romney, who voted earlier in the month to convict former president Donald Trump in his Senate impeachment trial.But they have both said they will not vote to confirm Tanden. More moderate Republicans have since come out against her as well. Names of some former Obama administration officials have emerged to replace Tanden, if Biden decides to withdraw her nomination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-names-indian-american-kiran-ahuja-to-head-key-agency-101614143085864.html
24-02-2021||World||Biden admin reverts to 2008 version of citizenship test||The Biden administration has announced to do away with the stringent Trump-era citizenship test and revert to the easier 2008 version, making the US naturalisation process more accessible to all eligible individuals.The new process comes into effect on March 1, US Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) said in a press release on Monday.On December 1 last year, USCIS implemented a revised naturalisation civics test, called the 2020 civics test, as part of a decennial test review and update process.Also read: What type of petitions USCIS still accepting after reaching H-1B visa cap?The civics test is administered to applicants who apply for US citizenship through naturalisation and is one of the statutory requirements for naturalising. Applicants must demonstrate a knowledge and understanding of the fundamentals of the history, principles, and form of government of the United States.The previous Trump administration had introduced some changes to the 2020 civics test. It increased the number of questions from 100 to 128 and the correct answers in the multiple-choice questions had political and ideological overtones.Announcing the reversal of the Trump policy, USCIS said the 2020 civics test development process, content, testing procedures, and implementation schedule "may inadvertently create potential barriers to the naturalization process".“This action is consistent with the framework of the Executive Order on Restoring Faith in Our Legal Immigration Systems, which directs a comprehensive review of the naturalization process to eliminate barriers and make the process more accessible to all eligible individuals,” it said.The federal agency asserted that the 2008 civics test was "thoroughly developed over a multi-year period with the input of more than 150 organisations, which included English as a second language experts, educators, and historians, and was piloted before its implementation".USCIS aspires to make the process as accessible as possible as directed by President Joe Biden’s request to review the process thoroughly, it said.The decision to naturalise demonstrates an investment in and commitment to US, USCIS said, adding that it is committed to administering a test that is an instrument of civic learning and fosters civic integration as part of the test preparation process.Applicants who filed their application for naturalisation on or after December 1, 2020, and before March 1, 2021, likely have been studying for the 2020 test; therefore, USCIS will give these applicants the option to take either the 2020 civics test or the 2008 civics test, it said.“There will be a transition period where both tests are being offered. The 2020 test will be phased out on April 19, 2021, for initial test takers. Applicants filing on or after March 1, 2021, will take the 2008 civics test,” USCIS said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-admin-reverts-to-2008-version-of-citizenship-test-101614134451112.html
24-02-2021||World||Biden, Trudeau bypass tension for unity on virus, China, climate||Joe Biden and Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau said their nations would adopt a unified approach toward the pandemic, climate change and China, setting aside trade and other tensions in what the White House called the new US president’s first bilateral meeting.After about a two-hour virtual meeting between the two leaders and their staffs on Tuesday, Biden said that they had agreed to cooperate to strengthen the World Health Organization and industrial supply chains, “tackle climate change” and “better compete with China.”He called for China to release two detained Canadian citizens, saying that “human beings are not bargaining chips,” and said that the US and Canada would “strengthen our shared commitment to provide safe haven for refugees and asylum seekers.”Biden portrayed the relationship with the US’s northern neighbour and largest trading partner as reinvigorated, after strains over immigration, trade and defence under former President Donald Trump. The new president made no mention of current disputes between the countries, such as Biden’s decision to halt construction of TC Energy Corp.’s Keystone XL oil pipeline linking oil-rich Alberta to Nebraska.“The United States has no closer friend -- no closer friend than Canada,” Biden said.Tuesday’s meeting was intended by the US as a coronavirus-era replacement for the tradition of a new president taking his first foreign trip to Canada. The leaders announced what they called a “road map” to improve cooperation across a range of topics, from climate change to the coronavirus.“In the face of Covid-19, of climate change, of rising inequality, this is our moment to act,” Trudeau said.They announced a forthcoming ministerial meeting on climate and the resumption of the Cross-Border Crime Forum, an annual gathering of top law enforcement officials from each country to examine ways to collaborate on counter-terrorism and efforts to combat smuggling and organized crime.Also read: US, Canada align policies to achieve net zero emissions by 2050, says Joe BidenAlthough Biden and Trudeau are more closely aligned politically than Trump and the Canadian leader, sore spots have emerged with the new administration. Biden said on his first day in office that the Keystone pipeline isn’t “consistent with my administration’s economic and climate imperatives.”Trudeau has called the project -- which would have shipped more than 800,000 barrels of crude a day from Alberta’s oil sands to US refineries -- a key priority, and raised concern about Biden revoking a permit for the project in a phone call with the president last month.“Canadian energy workers power homes on both sides of the border,” Trudeau said after the meeting. “It goes to show that we’re all better off for this partnership.”And Biden’s “Buy American” order that strengthened requirements for federal spending, clamping down on contractors’ use of foreign suppliers, may spell trouble for Canadian suppliers who sell to US companies that contract with the federal government.Trudeau is expected to seek waivers similar to those granted during the Obama administration to help protect Canadian businesses. But White House aides said on Tuesday that they didn’t anticipate the president offering any guarantees on procurement policy.Biden offered full US support to pressure China to release former diplomat Michael Kovrig and businessman Michael Spavor, who were detained in 2018 after Canada arrested Meng Wanzhou, a Chinese executive with Huawei Technologies Co. The US has sought the extradition of Meng -- who is the daughter of the company’s founder -- to try her on fraud charges. Her extradition case remains pending in Canadian courts.“We’re going to work together until we get their safe return,” Biden said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-trudeau-bypass-tension-for-unity-on-virus-china-climate-101614133202110.html
24-02-2021||World||Biden trade czar Tai eagerly awaited in Washington and Brussels||Katherine Tai, President Joe Biden's pick to revamp US trade policy to focus on workers and "ordinary Americans" over corporations, will get a chance to explain what that will mean in practice at her confirmation hearing on Thursday.Tai's testimony before the Senate Finance Committee has been anxiously awaited for months by industry, US trading partners from Beijing to Brussels, labour groups and lawmakers - all in a long queue to lobby Tai as soon as she is confirmed.As US trade representative, or trade "czar," for the world's largest economy, biggest importer of goods and second largest exporter after China, Tai will wield immense clout, especially after four years of trade turmoil sown by former President Donald Trump.Tai, the top trade lawyer for the House of Representatives Ways and Means Committee, is seen as a tireless and unflappable negotiator, deeply knowledgeable about China, who recently won praise for getting tougher labour and environmental standards added to the US-Mexico-Canada trade deal.Also read: India calls for 'fresh' trade talks with USShe has been guarded about her specific plans, but industry officials and congressional aides say one thing is clear - she will add labour concerns to the equation.In January, Tai told the National Foreign Trade Council that US trade policy must be "worker centric," focusing on people as wage earners and not just consumers - a key message repeated often by other top Biden economic policy experts.In Geneva, the US delegation recently spoke up with concerns about Myanmar's record of violating labour rights and using forced labour - a statement administration officials say reflects an increased focus on workers at home and abroad.The incoming director of the World Trade Organization, Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, said Biden's trade officials agree with her about the need to make trade relevant to everyday people to rebuild confidence in the global trade body and the global economy.While Britain, Kenya, Japan and others are clamouring for new or expanded trade deals, the Biden administration has put any new negotiations on hold until after a comprehensive review of all Trump trade policies.For now, Tai will focus on enforcing existing trade deals, including provisions aimed at protecting workers that she herself helped add to the US-Mexico-Canada trade deal.One European official said Brussels was waiting to see how Tai will implement Biden's pledge to rebuild ties with allies."We hope to start seeing the first signs of how she will make this happen. And of course: putting disputes to bed ASAP," the official said, referring to tariffs on steel and aluminium, and aircraft, and digital services taxes that Trump put in place or threatened."Her job ... will be to reassure the senators she’s going to be tough on the other countries that are taking advantage of us," said William Reinsch, a trade expert at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington. "She will be expected to take a hard line on China," he said.Senate Finance Committee Chairman Ron Wyden has pledged to move Tai's nomination quickly, which means she could get a Senate vote by next week or the following week, making her the earliest USTR confirmed in the job since the early 1990s.Harry Broadman, managing director at Berkeley Research Group, said the huge interest in Tai's hearing reflected the growing importance of trade to the US economy. "It's a sign of the times. People are very eager to get her on board," he said.Ken Monahan, trade policy chief for the National Association of Manufacturers, said he expects Tai would play a key role in shaping trade policy, in consultation with Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen, national security adviser Jake Sullivan and Secretary of State Antony Blinken."When it comes to trade actions and negotiations, I have no doubt that Katherine will be in the driver's seat," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-trade-czar-tai-eagerly-awaited-in-washington-and-brussels-101614132135166.html
24-02-2021||World||Indian-origin woman in Singapore tortures Myanmarese-origin maid to death||A 40-year-old Indian-origin woman in Singapore has pleaded guilty to torturing her 24-year-old Myanmarese-origin maid to death, even as the prosecution said that she abused, starved, tortured and ultimately killed her in a manner that would shock anyone's conscience.Five months into her new maid's employment, Gaiyathiri Murugayan began abusing her, punching and stamping on her and starving her until she was only 24-kgs, reported Channel News Asia.Days before Piang Ngaih Don died of a brain injury with severe blunt trauma to her neck, she was starved and tied to a window grille at night and assaulted if she tried to rummage for food from the dustbin, the report said.Gaiyathiri, who could be jailed for life, has pleaded guilty to 28 charges, including culpable homicide, voluntarily causing grievous hurt by starvation, voluntarily causing hurt by a heated substance and wrongful restraint that eventually led to the death of her maid from Myanmar, the report said.Another 87 charges will be considered in sentencing.The court heard that the victim came to Singapore to work for Gaiyathiri in May 2015 in what was her first job overseas as she was poor and needed to support her three-year-old son.Closed-circuit television footage from cameras installed in the house to monitor the victim and the children showed the abuse carried out in the last 35 days of the victim's life, the report said.An autopsy found 31 recent scars and 47 external injuries on the victim's body. She had died of hypoxic ischaemic encephalopathy - a type of brain injury - with severe blunt trauma to the neck. She was emaciated and in a poor nutritional state and would have died of starvation if it had been sustained further, according to the report.The prosecution, led by Senior Counsel Mohamed Faizal, asked for life imprisonment, saying that this is the only sentence "that would speak to the harms that have been occasioned and the outrage felt by the community by such a shocking series of events".He said Gaiyathiri abused, starved, tortured and ultimately killed the helper in a manner that would shock anyone's conscience, according to the report.Parties will return at a later date for sentencing. The penalties for culpable homicide not amounting to murder are life imprisonment and caning, or up to 20 years' jail, a fine and caning. Women cannot be caned.Prema's case is pending, while Gaiyathiri's husband also faces pending charges for maid abuse.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indianorigin-woman-in-singapore-tortures-myanmarese-origin-maid-to-death-101614137580283.html
24-02-2021||World||China's Mars craft enters parking orbit before landing rover||China says its Tianwen-1 spacecraft has entered a temporary parking orbit around Mars in anticipation of landing a rover on the red planet in the coming months.The China National Space Administration said the spacecraft executed a maneuver to adjust its orbit early Wednesday morning Beijing time and will remain in the new orbit for about the next three months before attempting to land. During that time, it will be mapping the surface of Mars and using its cameras and other sensors to collect further data, particularly about its prospective landing site.That follows the landing of the US Perseverance rover last Thursday near an ancient river delta in Jezero Crater to search for signs of ancient microscopic life.A successful bid to land Tianwen-1 would make China only the second country after the US to place a spacecraft on Mars. China's solar-powered vehicle, about the size of a golf cart, will collect data on underground water and look for evidence that the planet may have once harbored microscopic life.Tianwen, the title of an ancient poem, means “Quest for Heavenly Truth.”Landing a spacecraft on Mars is notoriously tricky. About a dozen orbiters missed the mark. In 2011, a Mars-bound Chinese orbiter that was part of a Russian mission didn’t make it out of Earth orbit.China’s attempt will involve a parachute, rocket firings and airbags. Its proposed landing site is a vast, rock-strewn plain called Utopia Planitia, where the US Viking 2 lander touched down in 1976.Tianwen-1's arrival at Mars on Feb. 10 was preceded by that of an orbiter from the United Arab Emirates. All three of the latest missions were launched in July to take advantage of the close alignment between Earth and Mars that happens only once every two years.Tianwen-1 represents the most ambitious mission yet for China’s secretive, military-linked space program that first put an astronaut in orbit around Earth in 2003 and last year brought moon rocks back to Earth for the first time since the 1970s. China was also the first country to land a spacecraft on the little-explored far side of the moon in 2019.China is also building a permanent space station and planning a crewed lunar mission and a possible permanent research base on the moon, though no dates have yet been proposed.The program is a source of enormous national pride and Tianwen-1 has attracted a particularly strong following among the public. Tourists flocked to tropical Hainan island to watch the launch, while others visit mock Mars colonies in desert sites with white domes, airlocks and spacesuits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinas-mars-craft-enters-parking-orbit-before-landing-rover-101614135494493.html
24-02-2021||World||Body of Italian ambassador killed in DR Congo returns home||The body of the Italian ambassador killed in the Democratic Republic of Congo arrived in Rome late Tuesday, as Rwandan Hutu rebels denied accusations they were behind the attack and instead blamed the armies of the DRC and Rwanda.Luca Attanasio, 43, died on Monday after a World Food Programme (WFP) convoy was ambushed in a dangerous part of eastern DRC.The envoy's Italian bodyguard, Vittorio Iacovacci, and Congolese driver Moustapha Milambo also died on the field trip.An Italian military plane carrying Attanasio and Iacovacci's flag-draped coffins was met at Rome's Ciampino airport by Prime Minister Mario Draghi.Foreign minister Luigi Di Maio and defence minister Lorenzo Guerini joined him to meet Attanasio's widow and three daughters, who flew home with the bodies.DRC President Felix Tshisekedi and his wife had earlier made a "condolence visit" to the family at the Italian ambassador's residence.The DRC's interior ministry on Monday blamed the killings on "members of the Democratic Forces for the Liberation of Rwanda (FDLR)" -- a Rwandan Hutu rebel group that has plagued the region for more than a quarter of a century.But the FDLR rejected the allegation, blaming the Rwandan army and the Armed Forces of the Democratic Republic of the Congo (FARDC) in a statement received by AFP Tuesday.It said the ambassador's convoy was attacked near the Rwandan border, "not far from a position of the FARDC"."The responsibility for this despicable killing is to be found in the ranks of these two armies and their sponsors who have forged an unnatural alliance to perpetuate the pillaging of eastern DRC," it said.Authorities in both countries have not reported the presence of any regular Rwandan troops in the DRC.An expert at the Kivu Security Tracker (KST), a US monitor, told AFP the Hutu rebel group, however, has a known presence in the region."The FDLR are near the place where the attack took place. It's in the realm of possibility that the Rwandan rebels are responsible," the expert said, speaking on condition of anonymity.Scores of militias roam the DRC's four eastern provinces, many of them a legacy of wars in the 1990s that sucked in countries around central-southern Africa and claimed millions of lives.Some of the FDLR's founders were involved in the 1994 Rwandan genocide during which the Hutu majority slaughtered 800,000 people, mainly Tutsis but also Hutu moderates.The group is opposed to the current Rwandan government, but has not launched any large-scale attacks in Rwanda since 2001.- Dangerous region -Monday's attack occurred north of the North Kivu capital of Goma on National Highway 2 -- a road that runs through thickly forested, mountainous terrain next to the porous border with Rwanda.The world-renowned Virunga National Park, a UNESCO-listed wildlife reserve that is a haven for critically-endangered mountain gorillas, straddles the area.Tshisekedi's office said Attanasio had arrived in Goma on Friday morning aboard a MONUSCO plane.He left on Monday morning in a two-vehicle WFP convoy heading for Kiwanja, in the Rutshuru area, accompanied by his bodyguard and WFP workers, it said.The convoy was ambushed three kilometres (1.9 miles) from their destination by six assailants, armed with five AK-47 assault rifles and a machete."They proceeded by firing warning shots before forcing the people in the vehicles to get out and follow them into the depths of the (Virunga) park, which they did by shooting dead one of the drivers to create panic," the president's office said.Park rangers and army troops nearby heard the noise and pursued the attackers."Five hundred metres (from the site of the ambush), the kidnappers fired point-blank at the bodyguard, who died on the spot, and at the ambassador, hitting him in the abdomen," the presidency added.- Security questions -After the Italian government expressed shock and outrage at the attack, newspapers in Rome on Tuesday raised questions about security preparations for the trip.Foreign Minister Di Maio is scheduled to speak to lawmakers about the attack on Wednesday.The DRC interior ministry said Monday that security services and provincial authorities had not been informed of the trip in advance."(They) were unable to provide special security for the convoy or come to its aid because of a lack of information about their presence in this part of the country, despite its reputation for instability," it said.But the WFP said the attack "occurred on a road that had previously been cleared for travel without security escorts".A UN humanitarian official in the DRC, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said that this meant the convoy had to be a minimum of two vehicles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/body-of-italian-ambassador-killed-in-dr-congo-returns-home-101614132070797.html
24-02-2021||World||Hunger in Central America skyrockets, UN agency says||The number of people going hungry in El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras and Nicaragua has nearly quadrupled in the last two years, the United Nations said on Tuesday, as Central America has been battered by an economic crisis.New data released by the UN's World Food Program showed nearly 8 million people across the four countries are experiencing hunger this year, up from 2.2 million in 2018."The COVID-19-induced economic crisis had already put food on the market shelves out of reach for the most vulnerable people when the twin hurricanes Eta and Iota battered them further," said Miguel Barreto, WFP Regional Director for Latin America and the Caribbean, in a statement referring to the two hurricanes to hit Central America in November.The World Food Program also said that 15% of those surveyed by the organization in January 2021 said that they were making concrete plans to migrate - nearly double the percentage in 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hunger-in-central-america-skyrockets-un-agency-says-101614132060112.html
24-02-2021||World||Singapore trials smartphone app offering mini check-ups||Each morning before work at a Singapore construction site, Gunasekar Udayakumar, 41, gets his vital signs checked, without going to a clinic, or even seeing a nurse.All he needs is his smartphone, which in just 45 seconds can tell him his heart rate, oxygen levels and even his stress levels. It can also tell him if he should see a doctor.The application, developed by Singapore startup Nervotec, is what construction firm Kajima considers its first line of defence against another outbreak of the coronavirus in Singapore.The city-state has kept a tight lid on its infections and wants to avoid a repeat of last year, when a series of clusters emerged in migrant worker dormitories.Kajima staff at various sites have used the application since December as part of a government-initiated programme that provides companies with trial-stage technology to help them adjust to the new pandemic-era norms.Also read| Facebook users more likely to interact with info spread by users with akin viewsIt offers a diagnosis of the user's health condition, relying solely on a smartphone camera that can measure heart rate by picking up changes in the reflectivity of light on the user's skin between heart beats according to blood flow underneath.Nervotec founder Jonathan Lau said Singapore's government was very interested in the technology."We see the most traction coming from healthcare providers, both private and public," he said.Lau's initial inspiration came from his experiences as an air force pilot, when he underwent constant check-ups.He eventually founded a company that used wearable devices to monitor pilots. But when the pandemic hit, Lau broadened the focus.The app is still undergoing local review and Chwee Teck Lim, director of the National University of Singapore's Institute of Health Innovation and Technology, said it could have a big impact if approved by regulators"What Nervotec is proposing could potentially be a game-changer," Lim said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/singapore-trials-smartphone-app-offering-mini-checkups-101614131930865.html
24-02-2021||World||US, Canada align policies to achieve net zero emissions by 2050, says Joe Biden||The US and Canada will align policies and goals to achieve net-zero emissions by 2050, said US President Joe Biden on Tuesday (local time) during his first bilateral meeting with Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau.At the virtual meet, President Biden said, "We're launching a high-level climate ambition ministerial and to align our policies and our goals and to achieve net-zero emissions by 2050."According to New York Post, President Biden said that he and Trudeau agreed to work together to counter China's influence and to combat racism and global warming.However, the two world leaders did not mention their disagreement on Biden's post-inaugural executive action ending the construction of the Keystone XL oil pipeline from Canada to the US, costing thousands of jobs on both sides of the northern border, New York Post reported.Last month, Trudeau said he was "disappointed" by Biden's move to revoke a permit for the pipeline. Trudeau had said he "spoke directly" to Biden about the USD 8 billion projects in November, and other Canadian officials "made the case" in favor of it "to high-level officials in the incoming administration, New York Post reported.Also read| Biden administration prepares to impose sanctions on Russia over Navalny stir"We both recognize our responsibility as leading democracies to defend our shared values around the world and to strengthen our own democracies at home," Biden said.The President further said, "That includes rooting out systemic racism and unconscious bias in our institutions and our laws, as well as our hearts. Today, we agreed to reestablish the cross-border crime forum and work together to modernize our approach to community safety, and to do all -- the most, the most we can do more to take on racism and discrimination in both our systems."Biden said he and Trudeau "agreed to work together on an inclusive recovery" from the Covid-19 pandemic by "using the tools available through the small and medium enterprise chapter of our trade agreement to support women and minority-owned businesses."Meanwhile, Biden and Trudeau said they would like to work together on global warming."We also double-downed on our efforts to tackle climate change, It was really, really encouraging. Now that the United States is back in the Paris Agreement, we intend to demonstrate our leadership in order to spur other countries to raise their own ambitions," Biden said.Also read| 'Received chemical burns to my face': Police captain recalls US Capitol riots"Canada and the United States are going to work in lockstep to display the seriousness of our commitment at both home and abroad. To that end, we're launching a high-level climate ambition ministerial to align our policies and our goals and achieve net-zero emissions by 2050," New York Post reported Biden's goal which he previously stated in his presidential campaign.Biden also called on China to release two jailed Canadians, Michael Spavor and Michael Kovrig, New York Post reported."Human beings are not bartering chips. And we're going to work together until we get their safe return," Biden said.Moreover, the Canadian prime minister told Biden, "thank you again for stepping up in such a big way on tacking climate change. US leadership has been sorely missed over the past years."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-canada-align-policies-to-achieve-net-zero-emissions-by-2050-says-joe-biden-101614130805362.html
24-02-2021||World||FAA orders high-tech inspections of jet engines on Boeing 777s||US aviation regulators on Tuesday issued stringent new inspection requirements to ensure Pratt & Whitney engines like the one that broke apart over a Denver suburb on Saturday are safe.The Federal Aviation Administration’s airworthiness directive mandates that the titanium fan blades on certain Pratt & Whitney engines be examined immediately before they can return to service. Pratt & Whitney is a division of Raytheon Technologies Corp.The action was prompted by the violent failure of a fan blade on one of two engines mounted on a United Airlines plane, a Boeing Co. 777-200.Also read| Damage to United Boeing 777 engine consistent with metal fatigue: NTSBAfter the 40.5-inch (103-centimeter) blade snapped, it tore off another blade and the front structure of the engine, pelting a suburban neighborhood with metal and other debris.No one was hurt on the ground and the plane landed safely.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/faa-orders-high-tech-inspections-of-jet-engines-on-boeing-777s-101614130548021.html
24-02-2021||World||'Received chemical burns to my face': Police captain recalls US Capitol riots||Captain Carneysha Mendoza, one of many US Capitol Police officers injured while responding to the deadly insurrection on January 6, recalled to lawmakers how her face was burned by chemicals used by rioters and her arm nearly broken as they stormed the Capitol, reported CNN.Mendoza's riveting testimony came Tuesday (local time) at the start of the contentious Senate hearing on the intelligence and security failures of the January 6 attack at the Capitol."I proceeded to the Rotunda where I noticed a heavy smoke-like residue and smelled what I believed to be military grade CS gas -- a familiar smell. It was mixed with fire extinguisher spray deployed by the rioters. The rioters continued to deploy CS into the Rotunda," CNN quoted Mendoza, a captain in the Special Operations Division as saying."Officers received a lot of gas exposure, which is worse inside the building than outside, because there's nowhere for it to go," Mendoza said, adding "I received chemical burns to my face that still have not healed to this day."However, Mendoza, who served in the US Army and has been a member of the US Capitol Police for almost 19 years, said that throughout her career, she has worked controversial events and that during the events she had been called "so many names so many times that I'm numb to it now."She also said the riot at the US Capitol, where nearly 140 officers were injured and one officer was killed, "was by far the worst of the worst" of the events she has worked during her career as an officer, CNN reported."We could have had 10 times the amount of people working with us and I still believe this battle would have been just as devastating," Mendoza said."At some point, my right arm got wedged between the rioters and railing along the wall," she testified. "A (DC police) sergeant pulled my arm free and had he not, I'm certain it would have been broken."Mendoza told senators how she witnessed her fellow officers being hit with objects thrown by the rioters and that after police cleared the Rotunda, officers had to physically hold the door to the Capitol closed as rioters continued to try to get into the building."After a couple of hours, officers cleared the Rotunda but had to physically hold the door closed because it had been broken by the rioters," Mendoza said, adding "Officers begged me for relief as they were unsure how long they could physically hold the door closed with the crowd continually banging on the outside of the door, attempting to gain reentry. Eventually officers were able to secure the door with furniture and other objects."Mendoza described how she was at home with her 10-year-old before being called in just after 1:30 pm (local time). She joined in with her fellow officers who had already been on the front lines."I'm proud of the officers I worked with on January 6. They fought extremely hard. I know some said the battle lasted three hours, but according to my Fitbit, I was in the exercise zone for 4 hours and nine minutes, and many officers were in the fight before I even arrived," CNN quoted Mendoza as saying.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/received-chemical-burns-to-my-face-police-captain-recalls-us-capitol-riots-101614130194370.html
24-02-2021||World||Facebook, Twitter users more likely to interact with info disseminated by users with similar viewpoints: Study||Facebook and Twitter users were more likely to interact with information disseminated by users with similar viewpoints, found a recent study.Matteo Cinelli, Gianmarco De Francisci Morales, Alessandro Galeazzi, Walter Quattrociocchi, and Michele Starnini conducted the study titled, "The echo chamber effect on social media." The research work was published in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America (PNAS).The researchers analyzed more than 100 million posts collected between 2010 and 2018 from Facebook, Gab, Reddit, and Twitter about controversial topics such as abortion, gun control, and vaccination. They found that compared with Reddit users, Facebook and Twitter users were more likely to interact with information disseminated by users with similar viewpoints,'Gab' users displayed some similarities with Reddit users but with an overall stronger polarization. Users aggregated in like-minded clusters dominated the online dynamics of Facebook and were segregated from opposing views, but not on Reddit, where users can modify their feed algorithms, suggesting that both user attitudes and platform dynamics influence information dissemination on social media, according to the authors."We explore the key differences between the main social media platforms and how they are likely to influence information spreading and the formation of echo chambers," stated the study.To assess the different dynamics, we perform a comparative analysis on more than 100 million pieces of content concerning controversial topics (e.g., gun control, vaccination, abortion) from Gab, Facebook, Reddit, and Twitter. The analysis focuses on two main dimensions:1) homophily in the interaction networks and2) bias in the information diffusion toward like-minded peers. Our results show that the aggregation in homophilic clusters of users dominates online dynamics.But a direct comparison of news consumption on Facebook and Reddit shows higher segregation on Facebook.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/facebook-twitter-users-more-likely-to-interact-with-info-disseminated-by-users-with-similar-viewpoints-study-101614129246451.html
24-02-2021||World||As women drop out of labour market, moms call for more aid||As women have left the US workforce in droves, in what some economists have deemed the first female recession, calls for structural changes to support them are growing louder.Since the pandemic took hold, more than 2 million women have dropped out of the workforce. The crisis has exposed the burdens on working women but also provided an opportunity for substantive change, according to Reshma Saujani, founder and chief executive officer of Girls Who Code.“The infrastructure of childcare is broken,” Saujani said Tuesday at the Aspen Institute’s RE$ET Conference with Bloomberg Economics. “Nobody can afford it and it’s not seen as something that we simply need in our society -- and that has to change.”Saujani has spearheaded an effort calling on the Biden administration to enact a “Marshall Plan for Moms.” It presses for short-term monthly payments depending on needs and resources and advocates for policies like paid family leave, affordable childcare and pay equity.A group of 50 high-profile women publicly signed on to the effort in January and on Tuesday the founder of Craigslist, Craig Newmark, announced a $500,000 donation to Girls Who Code in support of the plan.“Mothers are facing the brunt of this pandemic, and it is on all of us to step up and ensure that we are providing them with the relief and compensation they deserve,” said Newmark. “That is why I’m making an investment in the Marshall Plan Moms so that we can continue to raise awareness and call on our elected leaders to take action now.”Women were hard hit in this economic recession because it was the first led by the service sector, Betsey Stevenson, an economics professor at the University of Michigan, said at the Aspen event. That compares with the 2008 financial crisis when many of the jobs lost were in goods-producing industries, which are more male dominated, she said.“If we think about things like education, and health services, 78% of those jobs are held by women,” said Stevenson. “And that got hit really hard in this pandemic.”More than one-third of parents, mostly women, have yet to return to jobs they lost largely because there’s no one to look after their kids, according to a December report by US Chamber of Commerce Foundation.President Joe Biden’s $1.9 trillion stimulus package includes billions of dollars to help reopen schools and provide additional paid leave to struggling parents, but it may come too late for many women who have already left jobs.At a Senate hearing earlier Tuesday, Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell was asked multiple times about women who have dropped out of the labor market to take care of children.“That burden has fallen significantly more on women than on men,” Powell said. “Hopefully that will be temporary to the extent people want to return.”But he also noted the challenges ahead. “It may be difficult to get back to where you were,” Powell said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/as-women-drop-out-of-labour-market-moms-call-for-more-aid-101614129018785.html
24-02-2021||World||Tech firms say there's little doubt Russia behind major hack||Leading technology companies said Tuesday that a months-long breach of corporate and government networks was so sophisticated, focused and labor-intensive that a nation had to be behind it, with all the evidence pointing to Russia.In the first congressional hearing on the breach, representatives of technology companies involved in the response described a hack of almost breathtaking precision, ambition and scope. The perpetrators stealthily scooped up specific emails and documents on a target list from the US and other countries.“We haven’t seen this kind of sophistication matched with this kind of scale,” Microsoft President Brad Smith told the Senate Intelligence Committee.Forensic investigators have estimated that at least 1,000 highly skilled engineers would have been required to develop the code that hijacked widely used network software from Texas-based SolarWinds to deploy malware around the world through a security update.“We’ve seen substantial evidence that points to the Russian foreign intelligence agency and we have found no evidence that leads us anywhere else," Smith said.US national security officials have also said Russia was likely responsible for the breach, and President Joe Biden's administration is weighing punitive measures against Russia for the hack as well as other activities. Moscow has denied responsibility for the breach.Officials have said the motive for the hack, which was discovered by private security company FireEye in December, appeared to be to gather intelligence. On what, they haven't said.At least nine government agencies and 100 private companies were breached, but what was taken has not been revealed.White House press secretary Jen Psaki said Tuesday it would be “weeks not months” before the US responds to Russia.“We have asked the intelligence community to do further work to sharpen the attribution that the previous administration made about precisely how the hack occurred, what the extent of the damage is, and what the scope and scale of the intrusion is,” Psaki said. “And we’re still in the process of working that through now.”FireEye CEO Kevin Mandia told the Senate that his company has had nearly 100 people working to study and contain the breach since they detected it, almost by accident, in December and alerted the U.S. government.The hackers first quietly installed malicious code in October 2019 on targeted networks, but didn't activate it to see if they could remain undetected. They returned in March and immediately began to steal the log-in credentials of people who were authorized to be on the network so they could have a “secret key” to move around at will, Mandia said.Once detected “they vanished like ghosts," he said.“There’s no doubt in my mind that this was planned," the security executive said. “The question really is where’s the next one, and when are we going to find it?”Government agencies breached include the Treasury, Justice and Commerce departments, but the full list has not been publicly released. The president of Microsoft, which is working with FireEye on the response, said there are victims around the world, including in Canada, Mexico, Spain and the United Arab Emirates.The panel, which also included Sudhakar Ramakrishna, the CEO of SolarWinds who took over the company after the hack occurred, and George Kurtz, the president and CEO of CrowdStrike, another leading security company, faced questions not just about how the breach occurred but also whether hacking victims need to be legally compelled to be forthcoming when they have been breached. Even now, three months after the breach was disclosed, the identity of most victims remains unknown.Congress has considered in the past whether to require companies to report that they have been the victim of a hack, but it has triggered legal concerns, including whether they could be held liable by clients for the loss of data.US authorities are also considering whether to give additional resources and authority to the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Agency or other agencies to be able to take a more forceful role in working to prevent future breaches.Another measure that has been considered is to create a new agency, like the National Transportation Safety Board, that could quickly come in and evaluate a breach and determine whether there are problems that need to be fixed.Sen. Ron Wyden, one of the most prominent voices on cyber issues in the Senate, warned that the U.S. must first make sure that government agencies breached in this incident have taken the required security measures.“The impression that the American people might get from this hearing is that the hackers are such formidable adversaries that there was nothing that the American government or our biggest tech companies could have done to protect themselves,” said Wyden, an Oregon Democrat. “My view is that message leads to privacy-violating laws and billions of more taxpayer funds for cybersecurity."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/tech-firms-say-there-s-little-doubt-russia-behind-major-hack-101614128251826.html
24-02-2021||World||UK sets $988 million make-up plan for children’s lost learning in Covid-19||The UK government unveiled a 700 million-pound ($988 million) plan to help young people in England catch up on lost learning due to the coronavirus pandemic.The funding will focus on expanding tutoring programs, both one-to-one and in small groups, and help schools to provide more clubs and activities over summer.All schools in England are set to reopen March 8, after being closed for two months during the third national lockdown. Virus restrictions have meant pupils have only had one full term of lessons in the classroom since the pandemic hit the UK early last year.The new package, announced by the government Wednesday, includes plans to support language development among disadvantaged infants, and the creation of “face-to-face summer schools” in secondaries particularly targeted at 11- and 12-year-olds.Also read| UK to push at G-7 for global standard on 'vaccine passports'Prime Minister Boris Johnson said in an emailed statement that when schools reopen, “our next priority will be ensuring no child is left behind as a result of the learning they have lost over the past year.”Pupils will face some big changes when they go back to school; secondary school pupils will have three Covid-19 tests at school before being asked to regularly test themselves at home. Face masks will also be required in the classroom, as well as corridors, for the first time.Teaching unions raised concerns that reopening all schools at the same time would cause infection rates to spiral. Mary Bousted, general secretary of the National Education Union, warned in a statement: “A ‘big bang’ school reopening brings 10 million people back into crowded buildings with no social distancing and inadequate ventilation.”Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland have taken a more cautious approach to schools reopening, opting for a phased return with the youngest pupils going back first.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-sets-988-million-make-up-plan-for-children-s-lost-learning-in-covid19-101614127251449.html
24-02-2021||World||Mexico doing better than US on Covid-19, says Mexican President||Mexican President Andrés Manuel López Obrador said Tuesday that his country is doing better than the United States in dealing with the coronavirus pandemic, even though Mexico’s per capita death rate is probably higher and the country has vaccinated less than 1% of its population.López Obrador said Tuesday that comparing countries is in “bad taste,” but went on to say “the most powerful nation on earth, our neighbor, did worse than us.”The Mexican government's “estimated” death toll from Covid-19 is now about 201,000. The United States death toll is around 500,000, but its population is 2.6 times larger.Moreover, estimates of excess deaths in Mexico since the start of the pandemic suggest the Covid-19 toll is now well above 220,000. Mexico has administered about 1.7 million vaccine doses, while the US has given 64 million shots.López Obrador blamed rich countries for “hoarding” vaccines, calling that “totally unfair,” and said “the UN has to intervene.”Also read| Rich countries must increase Covid-19 vaccine supply to poor nationsLópez Obrador has demanded the United States vaccinate the millions of Mexicans living in the US with or without legal documents; Mexico says its consulates in the United States have even been registered as vaccination centers.But a photo circulated on social media showed a sign posted last week outside one Mexico City vaccination center stating “No Foreigners Will be Vaccinated.”Presidential spokesman Jesús Ramírez said that was a mistake, and promised everyone over 60, foreigners and Mexicans alike, would have access to vaccines.“That was a photo of one center, and that message was corrected,” Ramírez said.López Obrador invited Argentine President Alberto Fernández onstage at his daily morning press conference Tuesday, and the Argentine leader proposed that vaccine companies be forced to cede intellectual property rights and allow anyone to manufacture their shots.Also read| US marks grim milestone of 500,000 Covid deaths“The idea is to propose at the G20 the need to declare Covid-19 vaccines as ‘global goods,’ so that they cede their intellectual property rights and all countries can freely produce them,” Fernández said.Mexico is trying to beef up its supply of Pfizer vaccines with Russian and Chinese shots, and late Monday the country received its first shipment of 200,000 doses of the Russian Sputnik V vaccines.Mexico has had over 2 million test-confirmed coronavirus cases, but the low level of testing means the real number is probably several times that amount.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/mexico-doing-better-than-us-on-covid-19-says-mexican-president-101614126133609.html
24-02-2021||World||Once broke a schoolmate's nose for using a racial slur, reveals Barack Obama||Former US President Barack Obama on Tuesday (local time) said that he once broke a schoolmate's nose after the then-friend used a racial slur during a locker room fight.According to The Hill, the 44th US President shared the experience in an episode of his Spotify podcast with Bruce Springsteen, "Renegades," released Monday (local time)."Listen, when I was in school, I had a friend. We played basketball together," Obama told the "Born in the USA" singer during a wide-ranging conversation on race."And one time we got into a fight and he called me a c---," The Hill quoted Obama as saying about 13 minutes into the episode before quipping of his Aloha State upbringing to chuckles from Springsteen, "Now first of all, ain't no c---s in Hawaii, right?""It's one of those things that -- where he might not even known what a c--- was -- what he knew was, 'I can hurt you by saying this,'" Obama added.The country's first Black President added with a laugh, "And I remember I popped him in the face and broke his nose. And we were in the locker room.""Well done," Springsteen remarked."I explained to him -- I said, 'Don't you ever call me something like that,'" Obama recalled.It is believed to the first time the former President has discussed the incident publicly, The Hill reported.Hurling racial slurs, he said, comes down to "an assertion of status over the other.""'I may be poor. I may be ignorant. I may be mean. I may be ugly. I may not like myself. I may be unhappy. But you know what I'm not?'" Obama said to Springsteen. "'I'm not you.'""That basic psychology that then gets institutionalized is used to justify dehumanizing somebody, taking advantage of 'em, cheatin' 'em, stealin' from 'em, killin' 'em, raping 'em," The Hill quoted Obama as saying."Whatever it is, at the end of the day it really comes down to that. And in some cases it's as simple as, you know, 'I'm scared I'm insignificant and not important. And this thing is the thing that's going to give me some importance,'" said Obama.Obama has repeatedly discussed the lingering impacts of racism on American society, both in-office and since leaving it.He evoked a racial slur in a 2015 interview to warn that America is not "cured" of racism. In his comments, made following a deadly shooting at a historically black church in South Carolina, Obama said, "It's not just a matter of it not being polite to say [the N-word] in public, The Hill reported."That's not the measure of whether racism still exists or not. It's not just a matter of overt discrimination. Societies don't, overnight, completely erase everything that happened 200 to 300 years prior," he added.Spotify podcast titled 'Renegades: Born in the USA'.'Renegades: is an eight-episode that features the dynamic duo, who have been friends for over a decade.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/once-broke-a-schoolmate-s-nose-for-using-a-racial-slur-reveals-barack-obama-101614125510023.html
24-02-2021||World||Biden administration prepares to impose sanctions on Russia over Navalny poisoning, SolarWinds hack||US President Joe Biden's administration is preparing to impose sanctions on Russia in the coming weeks over the poisoning and jailing of Russian opposition leader Alexey Navalny and the SolarWinds hack, CNN reported citing officials.Discussions about the response to the devastating security breach of at least nine federal agencies and dozens of private businesses are still ongoing but could come within a matter of weeks, the US official said, noting that the package will likely include sanctions and a cyber component, as well as other options that make clear just how serious the Biden administration views Russia's actions more broadly, CNN reported.The form the Navalny sanctions will take is being firmed up and they will likely be rolled out in coordination with the European Union, the two administration officials said.The moves would be the first costs imposed on Russia by the Biden administration and would mark a clear departure from the strategy of the Trump administration, which failed to impose penalties over the poisoning and shied away from directly confronting Russia over its misdeeds.EU High Representative Josep Borrell said Tuesday (local time) that US Secretary of State Antony Blinken asked to coordinate actions against Russia over the Navalny case. However, Blinken addressed the EU Foreign Affairs Council on Monday (local time).Last week, National security adviser Jake Sullivan told CNN that the Biden administration's response to the hack will come soon. "We're not talking about months from now, but weeks from now, that the United States will be prepared to take the first steps in response to solar winds," Sullivan said.Sullivan also said that "what the previous administration said was, quote, 'that it was likely of Russian origin.' We believe we can go further than that."The Biden administration is not starting from scratch as they draft the options for Navalny sanctions. The State Department drew up options last year under the Trump administration but they were never imposed, a decision which mystified working level officials who developed them, one of the officials said.On Monday (local time) Blinken participated virtually in EU Foreign Affairs Council (FAC) and said he "welcomed the EU's decision to impose sanctions against Russia under the human rights sanctions regime in response to actions taken against [Navalny] and his supporters."Biden administration officials point to ongoing intelligence reviews and their necessity of fully understanding the state of play before rolling out their entire Russia policy. The intelligence review includes the SolarWinds breach, Russian interference in the 2020 election, Russia's use of chemical weapons against Navalny, and the alleged bounties on US soldiers in Afghanistan, CNN reported.Earlier this month, US State Department Spokesperson Ned Price said, "The Office of the Director of National Intelligence is working on this review very expeditiously," adding "I wouldn't expect this review to take any longer than necessary."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-administration-prepares-to-impose-sanctions-on-russia-over-navalny-poisoning-solarwinds-hack-101614124614473.html
24-02-2021||World||Millions of masks to be sent to households in Biden equity plan||President Joe Biden will announce a program to send cloth masks to disadvantaged U.S. communities to curb the coronavirus pandemic while deciding for now to shelve a proposal to send masks to every American, according to two administration officials familiar with the plans.The U.S. will probably send millions of masks around the country “very shortly,” Biden said Tuesday at a virtual roundtable event with Black essential workers who discussed the pandemic response with him.Brig. Gen. David Sanford, director of the supply chain task force, then told Bloomberg Law that the administration intends to focus first on “key disadvantaged populations.”The administration is taking the more targeted move after considering whether to send masks to all Americans, a notion that’s been shelved for now, according to another administration official with knowledge of the discussions.It isn’t immediately clear which communities and groups will be sent masks, though Biden has made equity a core goal of his pandemic response. Sanford said the masks would be sent to “folks served by food banks and community clinics.” The coronavirus has disproportionately affected communities of color, and data compiled by Bloomberg show that White people are receiving the vaccine in greater numbers than minorities.Communities of color and other marginalized groups have also been disproportionately harmed by the pandemic, both in contracting the virus, needing to go to the hospital, and dying. For example, Covid-19 death rates were twice as high for Black Americans as for White Americans last summer, according to the Kaiser Family Foundation. Biden has made addressing those disparities a key part of his plan to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic.Sanford said the masks will follow the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s guidelines for using cloth face masks.The agency’s guidance says that Americans should wear tightly-fitting masks that have multiple layers, both of which improve protection.“The bottom line is this: Masks work and they work best when they have a good fit and are worn correctly,” CDC Director Rochelle Walensky said at a White House briefing Feb. 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/millions-of-masks-to-be-sent-to-households-in-biden-equity-plan-101614123703436.html
24-02-2021||World||The glamorous life of El Chapo's wife||||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/the-glamorous-life-of-el-chapo-s-wife-101614123481851.html
24-02-2021||World||Rich countries must increase Covid-19 vaccine supply to poor nations, say Argentina, Mexico||The presidents of Mexico and Argentina on Tuesday pressed the United Nations and the world's richest countries to improve poorer nations' access to Covid-19 vaccines, deriding efforts as grossly inadequate so far.Mexican President Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador said the United Nations' scheme to ensure the poorest could get vaccines was not working, arguing that 80% of supplies were concentrated in 10 countries, which was "totally unfair.""Where's the universal brotherhood?," he told a joint news conference with his Argentine counterpart, Alberto Fernandez, a fellow leftist who is visiting Mexico."The U.N. must intervene, because it looks like a flower vase, it's a decoration," Lopez Obrador said.Fernandez backed his host's words and noted that he and French President Emmanuel Macron were pressing to have vaccines declared a "global good" by the Group of 20 major economies to which Mexico and Argentina belong.According to Oxford-based research group Our World In Data, Mexico has administered 1.3 vaccines per 100 of population, and Argentina 1.6. By contrast, Britain has done 27.0 and the United States 19.2. The world average is 2.7, the figures show.Sharp inequalities in vaccine rollouts have led to criticism that all but the world's richest countries will have to wait for months, if not years, for comprehensive access to the inoculations.Lopez Obrador accused the wealthiest countries of "hoarding" vaccine supplies, and his foreign minister, Marcelo Ebrard, has raised concerns over the issue at the U.N. Security Council.Ebrard expressed frustration vaccines had not yet reached Mexico under the COVAX scheme backed by the U.N.'s World Health Organization meant to guarantee equitable access.Both Mexico and Argentina have faced criticism over efforts to inoculate their populations and a joint project to make the AstraZeneca vaccine for Latin America has yet to yield results.Lopez Obrador said the first AstraZeneca shots would be ready in early April. Previously, officials had said March.Fernandez has been on the defensive over privileged vaccine access that people close to the government received, while in Mexico the rollout has been hampered by the failure of promised supplies to arrive.Lopez Obrador has also taken flak for his resistance to wearing a face mask, and he was again barefaced when he clasped arms with the masked Fernandez as they met on Tuesday.The two men warmly exchanged compliments with each other in the news conference, during which both attacked critical media.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/rich-countries-must-increase-covid-19-vaccine-supply-to-poor-nations-say-argentina-mexico-101614123271409.html
24-02-2021||India||Top court proposes cadre of magistrates to fill gaps in police investigation||To add public confidence to police investigation, the Supreme Court on Wednesday proposed that the need of the hour is to have a separate cadre of Magistrates to assist the police in collecting crucial evidence from crime spots.A three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde mooted this idea while hearing a suo moto petition with regard to inadequacies in criminal trials. The bench, also comprising Justices L Nageswara Rao and S Ravindra Bhat were of the view that magistrates should play a more “intrusive” role in investigation.“In some cases, a police team goes to the scene of crime and forgets to pick up crucial evidence. If a magistrate is associated with the investigation, there will be a greater sense of responsibility on the police,” the bench observed.Though the Court has not passed any order to this effect, the bench indicated that it may initiate another suo moto petition on these lines by issuing notice to all states. Without specifying about the contours of what they intend to do, the judges said, “The Magistrate may not participate in investigation…There may be an independent cadre of Magistrates for investigative purposes.”Two senior lawyers – R Basant and Sidharth Luthra, assisting the Court as amicus curiae had diverse views on this suggestion. Luthra pointed out that Section 156(3) of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) envisaged a supervisory role for Magistrates in police investigations. But he had doubts over whether a Magistrate could be part of the investigation during evidence collection as that would make him a witness during trial.The bench replied that even under the existing system, Magistrates are made witnesses during trial as they record dying declaration and hold test identification parade.Basant strongly objected to the Court’s suggestion hinting at the inherent danger of making a Magistrate a part of the investigation process. He said, “The Magistrate is not supposed to meddle with the investigation till filing of the final report (by police). The CrPC envisages a separation between the adjudicator and investigator. With this suggestion the mantle of independent adjudicator will fall.”The bench assured that it will not do anything absurd as Magistrates who are hearing the case will not participate in the investigation. “We need to think of a system….a different independent cadre,” the bench added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/top-court-proposes-cadre-of-magistrates-to-fill-gaps-in-police-investigation-101614189763818.html
24-02-2021||India||College student in Andhra Pradesh killed for rejecting marriage proposal||A 19-year-old student was strangled to death allegedly by a stalker in Narsaraopet town of Andhra Pradesh’s Guntur district on Wednesday afternoon, the police said.The victim, belonging to Gollapadu village of Muppalla block, was pursuing her second-year degree course in a private college in Narsaraopet town. The incident occurred at Ravipadu village on the outskirts of the town.The accused, Vishnu Vardhan Reddy (21), who is senior to her in the college, surrendered to the police after committing the murder, the Narsaraopet (rural) police said.According to the police, both the victim and Reddy were in a relationship for a year, but of late she had been avoiding him. He suspected that she was interested in another man and nursed a grudge against her.On Wednesday afternoon, Reddy requested her to come with him for a personal talk and she obliged his request. He took her on his bike to the outskirts of the town, where he tried to convince her to marry him. She rejected his request which led to an argument.“In a fit of rage, he strangled her to death and threw her body into an adjacent Govindapuram irrigation canal, before surrendering in the police station,” said a police official who did not wish to be named.Later, the police rushed to the spot and retrieved the woman’s body from the canal and shifted it to the government hospital for autopsy.On coming to know about the incident, hundreds of students along with locals gathered in large numbers in front of the government hospital and staged a dharna, demanding stringent action against the accused. Later, they also blocked the main road near the bus stand for over two hours.Tension continues to prevail in the town and additional police forces have been rushed there. The local police authorities had a tough time in controlling the agitated students.Expressing anguish over the murder of the degree college student, Andhra Pradesh chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy announced ex-gratia of ₹10 lakh to family of the deceased and assured that stern action would be taken against those responsible.He directed the officials to expedite the investigation and take action against the accused under Disha Act.Telugu Desam Party general secretary Nara Lokesh also condemned the ghastly murder.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/college-student-in-andhra-pradesh-killed-for-rejecting-marriage-proposal-101614190098245.html
24-02-2021||India||Higher fares for short distance trains to discourage needless travel: Railways||The ministry of railways on Wednesday clarified it has charged “slightly high fares” to “discourage unnecessary travel” in short distance passenger trains since they had begun operation post-lockdown.The national carrier at present is operating only special passenger trains since the curbs on lockdown were eased. Regular passenger trains have been suspended since March 25, 2020.“As special provisions for Covid-19, the fares of these trains have been fixed at unreserved price of mail/express trains for the same distance,” a statement from the railway ministry said.The Railways which has now also begun local train services has come under criticism from daily commuters who are feeling the pinch of the rise in fares. For example, a ticket from Amritsar to Pathankot costs ₹55 now, earlier it was priced at ₹25. Similarly, the ticket fare of passenger DMU between Jalandhar city railway station and Ferozpur costs ₹60 now, while earlier it was ₹30.“Railways would like to inform that these slightly higher fares for passenger and other short distance trains had been introduced to discourage people from avoidable travels and those which are not most necessary. Covid-19 is still around and in fact worsening in some states. Visitors from many states are being subjected to screening in other areas and discouraged to travel. Little higher price is to be seen as a proactive measure of Railways to prevent crowding in trains and stop Covid-19 from spreading,” the ministry said in a statement.Currently, the Railways have operationalized almost 65 per cent of the Mail/Express trains and over 90 per cent of suburban services as compared to the pre lockdown times.A total 1250 Mail/Express, 5350 suburban services and more than 326 passenger trains are presently in operation on an average on a daily basis. The statement from the ministry said that short distance passenger trains running presently constitute less than 3 per cent of total trains.The Railways had to stop running of regular trains due to the Covid-19 related nationwide lockdown imposed on March 22, 2020 as a measure to counter the spread of Coronavirus.Railways is constantly increasing the number of passenger carrying trains in a graded manner. Full restoration of regular services of passenger trains, to pre-Covid times, is to be considered keeping in view a range of factors and operational circumstances.Keeping in view the prevailing Covid-19 situation, after introduction of Mail/Express trains, Railways is gradually operationalizing passenger trains taking all necessary precautions and making additional effort. Passenger operations have always been subsidized by Railways. Normally, Railways bears a loss on every journey by a passenger, the ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/higher-fares-for-short-distance-trains-to-discourage-needless-travel-railways-101614188010995.html
24-02-2021||India||New Covid-19 strains not more infectious, need to aggressively monitor situation: AIIMS Director Randeep Guleria||With two new strains of Covid-19, one each from the UK and Brazil, confirmed in a number of states, AIIMS Director Randeep Guleria on Wednesday said that vaccines will be able to control the spread of coronavirus and lessen the mortality rate.Guleria also there was need to aggressively study the mutations of the Covid-19 virus."Currently we have vaccines with efficacy of 70 per cent , 80 per cent, 90 per cent so even if there is slight fall in efficacy they will still be effective in preventing the virus from further spreading," Guleria told in an interview to ANI.When asked about the new strains of the virus that have been found in several parts of the country he said authorities are closely monitoring the situation."It doesn't seem that the strains are more infectious or vaccine will not work but we need to study it more aggressively and look at it more closely. We should not miss out on strains which are more infectious," Guleria said."There are two things. One is the efficacy of the vaccine in preventing serious disease and death. I could say that the vaccine definitely will prevent serious disease and therefore decease mortality as far as new strain is concern. As far efficacy is a concern, one can argue that if you have a strain, the efficiency theoretically may come down a little bit but we do have a good buffer," he said.The Union Health Ministry on Tuesday revealed that two new strains of the Covid-19 virus - the N440K variant and the E484Q variant have been detected in Maharashtra and Kerala. There is no scientific evidence to suggest that these two newer virus strains are responsible for the surge in cases in some districts in these two states as well as from Telangana, Dr VK Paul, Member (Health) of the NITI Aayog had said during the weekly Covid-19 update yesterday."We need more data to show how infectious the strain is. Currently, the data we have does not suggest that this is more infectious but I would say more data required. Samples have been taken from all areas where a surge has been seen. After analysis, we will have the data," he said.Guleria said that there is a need to monitor the situation closely as vaccines will be changed in the view of new variants."As of now, we do not need to worry but we need to monitor the situation closely and look aggressively for all the variants and make sure that none of them is becoming totally new and our vaccine efficacy has fallen.He added: " Simultaneously have to keep changing the vaccine also to take into account the new variants that are emerging."The AIIMS director called for developing a strategy to keep the mortality rate down while lauding the Central government's decision to allow private centres to vaccinate people against Covid-19."I think this is a very good step because we have to move forward and vaccinate as many people as we can. We need to develop a strategy where we need to keep our death rate down. Therefore, vaccinating people above the age of 60 or those who are above the age of 45 with comorbidity will be a very good step in this direction, also opening it up for the private sector," he said."We have a huge target to achieve even in a phase one we have to vaccinate at least 30 crore individuals that is something we need to keep in mind," he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-strains-not-more-infectious-need-to-aggressively-monitor-situation-guleria-101614189303540.html
24-02-2021||India||2 security personnel killed in Chhattisgarh’s Narayanpur in Maoist attacks||Two security personnel were killed in two separate incidents when Maoists set off improvised explosive devices (IEDs) in Narayanpur of Bastar region on Tuesday and Wednesday, police officials said.The first incident took place in Sonpur police station area on Tuesday evening.“A team of Indo Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) was returning after an operation when the incident took place. Constable L Balachandra died in an IED blast,” said Inspector General of Police (Bastar Range) Sunderaj P.“The constable died in a directional pipe IED blast, 2 km from Sonpur towards Kundla around 6.30pm, when the party was returning from demining duty. He was from Tamil Nadu. On Thursday, after postmortem and last honors, the constable’s body would be sent to his home town,” said Superintendent of Police, Narayanpur, Mohit Garg.The SP said that in another incident on Wednesday afternoon, a constable of district reserve guard (DRG) died in an IED attack.“Maoists ambushed DRG Narayanpur team near Kukur village, about 28 km from police station Sonpur at Maharashtra border, in which guide constable Kaner Usendi got hit in stomach and succumbed to his injuries. The DRG teams fired back in self defence breaking the Maoist ambush after which they fled. Kaner died later during treatment,” said the SP.Earlier at around 11 am, a Chhattisgarh Armed Force (CAF) constable Bankeshwar Paikra sustained splinter injuries in a blast triggered by Maoists at a forest in Kukrajhar police station area, he said. The injured jawan was rushed to a hospital in Narayanpur from where he was airlifted to Raipur for further treatment, Garg said.(With inputs from S Kareemuddin)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-security-personnel-killed-in-chhattisgarh-s-narayanpur-in-maoist-attacks-101614188254232.html
24-02-2021||India||No question of renaming, Gujarat deputy CM clarifies on Motera stadium being named after PM Modi||Amid allegations from opposition parties over renaming of Ahmedabad's Motera stadium after Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the Gujarat government has issued a clarification. Gujarat Deputy Chief Minister Nitin Patel said that Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel's name was never associated with the stadium in question."This stadium is owned by the Gujarat Cricket Association (GCA) and it was always known as the Motera Stadium. So there is no question of renaming it now. It was Narendra Modi, who had first floated the idea to demolish the old stadium and build a new one when he was the GCA president," said Nitin Patel, according to a video posted by the Press Information Bureau (PIB).Also Read: Refurbished Motera stadium renamed after PM as Narendra Modi stadiumHe further said that Narendra Modi Stadium in Motera, inaugurated by President Ram Nath Kovind, is part of a larger complex, named 'Sardar Patel Sports Complex'.ALSO WATCH | Sardar Patel cricket stadium in Motera renamed Narendra Modi stadium﻿﻿After some leaders of the Congress and other opposition parties made the accusation, Union ministers Prakash Javadekar and Ravi Shankar Prasad too had said that only Motera Stadium has been named after PM Modi and the complex in which it is located is still called Sardar Patel Sports Enclave. Taking a dig at Congress leaders Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi, Prasad, who was addressing the media after attending a cabinet meeting, said that the two leaders had never praised or visited Sardar Patel's statue, the world's tallest, in Gujarat's Kevadia, news agency PTI reported."I want to say this with full responsibility that a tourist place getting global praise has not been visited yet or praised by the two Congress leaders. What else is there to say?" he said.Also Read | President Ram Nath Kovind inaugurates world's largest Motera cricket stadium: All you need to knowJavadekar, in his clarification, said that the ones making a big deal out of the issue never respected Sardar Patel. "The name of the Sports Complex is Sardar Patel Sports Enclave. Only the name of the cricket stadium, within the complex, has been named after Narendra Modi. Ironically, 'The Family', which never respected Sardar Patel, even after his death, is now making hue and cry," he tweeted.Earlier, Congress leader Shashi Tharoor had tweeted, "Maybe they just realised the stadium was named for a Home Minister who had banned their parent organisation! Or maybe this is advance booking to ensure the next visiting Head of State is hosted here, like Trump? Or is this the beginning of a legacy-creation-thru-labelling spree (sic)?"Rajeev Satav, another Congress leader, said the renaming was "a clear sign of autocratic dictatorship". "Renaming Motera cricket stadium from Sardar Patel to Narendra Modi is an absolute disgrace. This shows how narcissistic our PM has become. This is outrageous and a clear sign of autocratic dictatorship," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-question-of-renaming-gujarat-deputy-cm-clarifies-on-motera-stadium-being-named-after-pm-modi-101614188128887.html
24-02-2021||India||India plans new social media controls after Twitter face-off||Chafing from a dispute with Twitter, India plans to oblige social media companies to erase contentious content fast and assist investigations, according to a draft regulation.New Delhi's planned "Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code" - a copy of which was seen by Reuters - come as various nations around the world try to assert tighter control over powerful Big Tech firms.Facebook faced a global backlash from publishers and politicians last week after blocking news feeds in Australia in a dispute with the government over revenue-sharing.In India, Twitter ignored orders to remove content over farmers' protests, fuelling the zeal of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's government since 2018 to tighten regulation for content it deems disinformation or unlawful.The latest draft rules - which would be legally enforcable - say companies should remove content as early as possible, but not later than 36 hours, after a government or legal order.They must also assist in investigations or other cybersecurity-related incidents within 72 hours of a request. Further, if a post depicts an individual in any sexual act or conduct, then companies must disable or remove such content within a day of receiving a complaint, the rules added.Facebook did not immediately respond to a request for comment. Twitter, which did not take down all accounts the government alleged were spreading lies about the protests over agricultural reforms, declined to comment.RACIAL, RELIGIOUS CONTEXTThe draft proposal also requires companies to appoint a chief compliance officer, another executive for coordinating on law enforcement and a "grievance redressal officer".All must be resident Indian citizens.The Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology did not immediately respond to a request for comment.It was unclear when the rules would be announced of if they may undergo further changes.Industry sources say new regulations could hit Big Tech firms' investment plans in India and increase compliance headaches. The rules would also apply across other digital and online media, the draft proposal said."A publisher shall take into consideration India's multi-racial and multi-religious context and exercise due caution and discretion when featuring the activities, beliefs, practices, or views of any racial or religious group," the draft rules said.Referring to films and other entertainment, including web-based serials, the draft rules called for a "classification rating" to describe content and advise discretion.Streaming platforms such as Netflix and Amazon Prime have faced complaints in India for obscenity.Police in the northern state of Uttar Pradesh questioned an Amazon executive for nearly four hours on Tuesday over allegations that a political drama, "Tandav", hurt religious sentiments and caused public anger.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-plans-new-social-media-controls-after-twitter-faceoff-101614187665679.html
24-02-2021||India||Differences in Meghalaya BJP intensifies, coalition govt comes under strain||The BJP which is a partner in the ruling alliance in Meghalaya has been rocked by dissent with one of the party's two legislators in the state rebelling against state unit chief Earnest Mawrie.BJP legislator from South Shillong, Sanbor Shullai who once raged against the Citizenship Amendment Act, even went on to say at a public meeting that the saffron party in Meghalaya is a “sinking ship.”The BJP state unit has also been at loggerheads with the ruling Meghalaya Democratic Alliance (MDA) dispensation with Mawrie accusing it of anomalies in governance and even levelling corruption charges against it that has put the alliance under strain.But with its own fissures out in the open, the leader of the BJP parliamentary party and health minister AL Hek acknowledged that there was a discussion with chief minister Conrad Sangma on the situation arising out of Mawrie’s repeated allegations against the National People’s Party-led state government. He also acknowledged that many people in the BJP have individually expressed that they want Mawrie to be ousted as the state BJP president.“People are not happy with the state president’s style of functioning but that is their individual opinion and therefore to remove him (Mawrie), we have to sit as a party and take a collective decision. The CM expressed that he is not happy with the style of functioning of the BJP state president and that he had also discussed this with the national leaders…I will not deny this,” Hek said.Hek felt it was wrong for the state president to keep on attacking the MDA government especially the CM and his family.Government officials who did not wish to be named said an unhappy chief minister Sangma had complained to the BJP central leadership earlier this month about Mawrie and his way of functioning while claiming that almost half of the BJP leaders in Meghalaya are in favour of ousting their boss.“I have spoken to both the MLAs (AL Hek and Sanbor Shullai) of the BJP and both of them have distanced themselves from the comments he (Mawrie) has made. Both the MLAs have told me that they are in favour of Ernest Mawrie being removed as president of the state BJP,” Sangma said.Mawrie retorted by saying that Sangma who heads the NPP should not interfere in the BJP’s internal matters.“I am very surprised. Since when has he (Conrad Sangma) become the spokesperson of our party? Because he is the national president of NPP and he is claiming that more than half of the party karyakartas have reported to him about my removal.”He insisted that he stood by his statement. “It seems that the CM was nervous because of the issues I am raising so if he says that he is clean, let him come with the proof,” he said.Sangma’ deputy Prestone Tynsong also joined the battle and dared the BJP to pull out of the alliance.“Let your (BJP) action speak louder than your words by withdrawing support instead of criticizing the government which you are also part and parcel of. Are these people not becoming a laughing stock? On one hand, you say MDA is corrupted and on the other hand, you say are a partner. Is it logical?” Tynsong said.Hek responded that it is for the party’s national leadership to decide on whether to withdraw support to the NPP-led government.“We have no issues if the national leadership of the BJP tells us (to pull out of the MDA government). Therefore, it is for the national leadership to take a call (on this issue) and not for us,” Hek emphasised.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/differences-in-meghalaya-bjp-intensifies-coalition-govt-comes-under-strain-101614186935274.html
24-02-2021||India||UP cops hunt for clues into case of college girl found with burn injuries||Two days after a college student was found lying severely burnt and naked along on a national highway in Shahjahanpur district of Uttar Pradesh, the police were yet to track down those responsible for her condition.Shahjahanpur’s superintendent of police S Anand, SP, denied reports that the girl was burnt after a failed rape attempt.The 21-year-old student of Swami Shukdevanand College, of which former Union minister Chinmayanand is the chairman, is battling for life at a hospital in Lucknow where she was referred for better medical care, said hospital sources.A resident of Kanth area, the girl is a second-year BA student at the college.“Our teams are scanning the CCTV footage to ascertain identities of the people who met the girl when she visited the college on Monday. A few suspects have also been detained for questioning,” said the SP.“We are still working on the case and it will not be right to say anything at this point of time. Our teams are exploring all possibilities,” he added.The victim’s father had dropped her to the college on Monday around 11 am. She was found badly burnt around 6 pm, police said.The girl’s father told the police that he waited for his daughter outside the college. When she didn’t return after a few hours, he entered the college and began searching for her.Later at the hospital, the victim did not tell the police anything about the incident. “The girl was in a conscious state at the hospital. When asked about the incident, she said she has no recollection of the incident. We have requested the family members to encourage her to help us investigate the case so that those responsible for the attack could be arrested,” said the SP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-cops-hunt-for-clues-into-case-of-college-girl-found-with-burn-injuries-101614184086480.html
24-02-2021||India||Expert team widens mouth of lake formed upstream Rishiganga for faster drainage||The expert team which was sent to the lake formed upstream Rishiganga river in Uttarakhand's Chamoli district has succeeded in widening the mouth of the lake from 35 ft to around 50 ft on Wednesday, following which the lake water has started draining out at a faster speed, the State Disaster Response Force said.The team of around 30 comprises scientists, SDRF and ITBP personnel and porters.“In a daring effort, the team has widened the mouth of the lake in a very difficult terrain which has increased the discharge from the lake. Due to this, the chances of lake burst or Chamoli-like tragedy happening again has been averted. Our team members are still camping there to try to widen the mouth further”, SDRF Commandant Navneet Bhullar said."The team is also trying to increase the depth of the widened channel by about one to one and a half feet near the opening which will further speed up the discharge of water."He also said that the special communication equipment - quick deployable antenna (QDA) - based on satellite communication has been set up at the site which is helping in communicating with the expert team in real time.The expert team, which left for the lake area on Friday and reached there on Saturday, had analysed the lake to find out ways to drain it so that it doesn’t breach in future and lead to a tragedy like the Chamoli flash flood of February 7.Meanwhile, the rescuers involved in the search and rescue operation in the Chamoli disaster recovered one more body on Wednesday taking the death toll to 71 with 133 still missing.SDRF spokesperson Praveen Alok, said, "The body was found from the Alaknanda river near the disaster site in Chamoli. Meanwhile, the rescue workers have cleared slush up to a distance of about 184 metres in the 1.7km long tunnel at the NTPC hydel power project in Tapovan."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/expert-team-widens-mouth-of-lake-formed-upstream-rishiganga-for-faster-drainage-101614182642560.html
24-02-2021||India||Amid Covid-19 fears, thousands throng Telangana’s Sammakka-Saralamma festival||The threat of Covid-19 notwithstanding, thousands of Adivasis from different parts of the country thronged to the tribal village of Medaram in the dense forests of Tadvai block in Telangana’s Mulug district to participate in the four-day Sammakka-Saralamma jatara (tribal fair) that began on Wednesday.Though this event, meant to worship two tribal women – Sammakka and her daughter Saralamma of the 13th century, in the form of deities, is actually a biennial ritual, the Koya tribes in large numbers make it a point to assemble at Medaram on “Magha Suddha Pournami” (the full-moon day of the month of Magha) every year to pay obeisance to the deities.The biennial festival is celebrated on a big scale with a footfall of over 15 million devotees, and the annual ritual is also attended in large numbers. “This year, we are expecting that around 1.5-2 million tribal devotees will attend this annual fair to be celebrated from February 24 to 27,” Mulugu collector Krishna Aditya said.The tribal fair draws devotees not only from Telangana, but also from other states like Andhra Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh. “Even non-tribal devotees attend this fair in large numbers,” the collector said.The tribals believe that Sammakka and Saralamma had laid down their lives fighting the mighty emperors of the Kakatiya dynasty who had attacked their little tribal hamlet demanding royalty and sought to destroy their life and culture.According to the district authorities, permanent arrangements are already in place at Medaram village since it continues to attract visitors regularly. For the ongoing mini-jatara, the district administration has spent nearly ₹1.5 crore to make various arrangements.“We have made all the arrangements such as provision of drinking water facilities, sanitation, desilting of wells, installation of taps, erection of lighting facilities, construction of temporary compartments for dress-changing, barricading, levelling of pathways, food arrangements etc,” Aditya said.However, what is worrying for the authorities is the potential threat of the spread of Covid-19 in such a huge congregation. “It is virtually impossible to screen such a huge number of tribal devotees for Covid-19 or enforce restrictions on their gathering in such a small village,” Mulugu district medical and health officer Dr A Appaiah, admitted.He, however, said the authorities had been undertaking extensive campaigns among the devotees to wear masks, use hand sanitisers and maintain social distance as far as possible, using public address systems and distribution of pamphlets.“We have set up medical camps at different locations around the fair so that anybody found with any symptoms could be immediately attended to. If any positive cases surface in the area, arrangements have been made to shift them and those associated with them to Mulug district hospital for treatment,” he said.He admits that there is a possibility of the Covid-19 disease being carried through devotees from Maharashtra and Chhattisgarh, where new cases were surfacing. “We thought of putting up testing centres at the inter-state borders, but we dropped the idea because of practical issues,” Appaiah said.The collectors, too, made an appeal to the tribal devotees to follow the Covid-19 protocols and avoid attending the fair, if they have any symptoms.State minister for tribal welfare Satyavathi Rathod, who prayed to the deity on the first day of the tribal fair, said all arrangements had been made to see that the devotees would not face any health problems at the fair.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-covid-19-fears-thousands-throng-telangana-s-sammakka-saralamma-festival-101614181593834.html
24-02-2021||India||Covid-19: West Bengal makes RT-PCR tests mandatory for arrivals from Maharashtra, 3 other states||West Bengal on Wednesday announced that people arriving from the states of Maharashtra, Kerala. Karnataka, and Telangana will need to produce a negative RT-PCR test on arrival to be allowed entry into the state. The rule will come into effect from 12 pm of February 27. The results will be considered valid if the test was 72 hours of flight departure, the notice released by the state government said.The notice addressed to the secretary of ministry of civil aviation, PS Kharola, by the additional chief secretary of the home and hill affairs department, HK Diwedi, stated “All passengers coming to West Bengal from the aforementioned 4 states shall mandatorily carry a covid negative RT-PCR report for such test conducted within 72 hours of flight departure.”“Accordingly, I would request that suitable instructions may kindly be issued to all the airlines,” it added.Maharashtra on Wednesday recorded a whopping number of 8,807 new cases of Covid-19, after two continuous days of witnessing a steady decline in the daily tally. Kerala had recorded 4,823 cases of Covid-19 and 14 deaths on Wednesday. The state of Telangana stopped issuing daily Covid-19 bulletins citing low tally of daily cases, but the ministry of health and family affairs state-wise database showed Telangana had recorded 146 new cases and two deaths on Wednesday,West Bengal on Wednesday recorded 41 new cases of Covid-19. The total number of active cases in the state currently stands at 3,399. The state also recorded 2 fatalities in the last 24 hours, taking the death toll to 10,253.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-west-bengal-makes-rt-pcr-tests-mandatory-for-arrivals-from-maharashtra-3-other-states-101614181970088.html
24-02-2021||India||2 terrorists killed in encounter in Jammu and Kashmir’ Anantnag||Two terrorists were killed in an encounter with security forces in South Kashmir's Anantnag district on Wednesday, the police and the army said.The encounter erupted at Shalgul forest area of Srigufwara in Anantnag after a joint operation was launched by the police and army.The army's Chinar Corps said that the joint operation was launched early morning based on information from the Jammu and Kashmir police."The area was cordoned and contact with the terrorists established and a firefight ensued," an army spokesman said."Two terrorists were eliminated," the spokesman said.The spokesperson said that they recovered two AK rifles from the spot.A police spokesman said that during the operation the terrorists were given an opportunity to surrender. However, they fired indiscriminately upon the joint search party which returned the fire."In the ensuing encounter, two unidentified terrorists were killed and their bodies were retrieved from the site of encounter. The identification and affiliation of the killed terrorists is being ascertained," the spokesman said.In case any family claims the slain militants to be their kith or kin, they can come forward for their identification at PCR Kashmir."Arms and ammunition including two AK rifles and other incriminating materials were recovered from the site of encounter," the spokesman said.The police also requested people cooperate with them till the area is completely sanitized and cleared off of all the explosive materials, if any.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-terrorists-killed-in-encounter-in-jammu-and-kashmir-anantnag-101614180814955.html
24-02-2021||India||Lives lost to wildlife-human conflict inadequately compensated in India: Study||The lives of people lost due to wildlife-human conflicts are not adequately compensated in India, according to a new study which says changing the approach to this estimate can improve conservation efforts, and help understand which species to prioritise at conflict-prone zones.The research, published in the journal PNAS, surveyed 5,196 households living near 11 wildlife reserves in India, and self-reported annual costs including crop and livestock losses, injuries, and human deaths."Human casualties contribute overwhelmingly to overall damages from wildlife interactions. This is despite the use of a relatively low valuation of human life from the literature," study lead author, Sumeet Gulati from The University of British Columbia in Canada, told PTI.The researchers said compensation for human death ranges from ₹76,400 in Haryana, to ₹8,73,995 in Maharashtra.They said the average compensation paid for human death in the country is ₹1,91,437, and the average compensation paid for injury is ₹6,185.According to Gulati, these compensation values, known as value of a statistical life (VSL) are typically calculated from labour market comparisons."Controlling for how productive workers are across different industries, economists estimate how much of the compensation paid can be attributed to the risk of injury or death across occupations," Gulati explained."One obvious way to improve this estimate is to have more studies estimating the VSL using data from developing countries," he added.According to the researchers, better compensation for human fatalities can likely reduce animosity towards the species conservationists intend to preserve."More importantly, if governments invested in measures to reduce conflict based on an accurate understanding of the real value of the loss of human life, conflict would be reduced, and animosity would fall, making both those living near the forest and those who care about the beings in the forest better off," Gulati explained.According to the wildlife conservationist, the dominance of the costs of human casualties rationalises the innate fear and respect towards large species like elephants displayed by those living with wildlife in India.Based on the findings, the scientists said focusing on the cost of human casualties while estimating losses from wildlife conflict is necessary."Our research is one of the largest scientific assessments of human-wildlife conflict globally," said study co-author Krithi Karanth from the Centre for Wildlife Studies in Bengaluru."We find that farmers experiencing a negative interaction with an elephant over the last year incur damages on average that are 600 and 900 times those incurred by farmers with negative interactions with the next most costly herbivore -- the pig and the nilgai," Karanth said.Similarly, she said farmers experiencing a negative interaction with a tiger over the last year incur damage that is on average three times that inflicted by a leopard, and a 100 times from a wolf.Although a species is associated with a rare occurrence of human fatalities, the scientists said the expected cost of death from a negative interaction could be much higher than the expected cost of frequently occurring crop or livestock damage."Conservation managers have to prioritise human casualties and improve assistance provided to people," Karanth added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lives-lost-to-wildlife-human-conflict-inadequately-compensated-in-india-study-101614178923244.html
24-02-2021||India||News updates from HT: Railways ministry clarifies on fare hike and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Railways ministry clarifies on fare hike: 'Aim to prevent crowding during Covid'The ministry of railways on Wednesday clarified that its move to slightly increase fares for short distance passenger trains has been taken to discourage people from travelling amid the coronavirus pandemic.Read more.1,167 new Covid cases in Mumbai, 8,807 in Maharashtra after 2 days of fallMumbai recorded a huge spike in the number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in the last 24 hours. According to Maharashtra health department, the city recorded 1,167 new cases of the infection while the number stood at 8,807 for the state.Read more. ‘De-escalation in Ladakh still a long way off’: General NaravaneArmy chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane on Wednesday said that the ongoing disengagement process with the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh was a “win-win situation” for both sides, but there was “still a long way to go” before de-escalation of conflict in the theatre and eventual de-induction of rival soldiers can be achieved through talks.Read more. After court rap over Disha's arrest, Delhi Police chief explains intentA day after a court in Delhi gave bail to climate activist Disha Ravi in a case about creating an online toolkit, the city's police commissioner made the force's stand clear.Read more. Buruli ulcer spreads in parts of Australia: 10 things to know about the flesh-eating diseaseThe chief health officer of Victoria, Professor Brett Sutton, issued an advisory for health professionals and residents of the Essendon, Moonee Ponds and Brunswick West areas of inner Melbourne where several cases of Buruli ulcer, a chronic debilitating disease caused by an environmental Mycobacterium ulcerans, have been detected.Read more. Axar Patel, R Ashwin make pink-ball tall, India bundle out England for 112 in third test in AhmedabadAxar Patel registered his career-best figures of 6 for 38 as India spinners called the shots in the first-ever day-night pink-ball Test between India and England in the world’s largest cricket stadium that has a capacity of 1 lakh 32 thousand.Read more. Priyanka Chopra slams troll who commented on her 'figure' and criticised her ball-shaped dressPriyanka Chopra Jonas reacted to a social media user criticised her now-viral ball-shaped outfit. Earlier, Priyanka shared a bunch of memes inspired by her dress.Read more. Straight-up cruel: Kate Winslet opens up about tabloids body shaming herKate Winslet recently opened up about how the tabloid journalists were "straight-up cruel" to her early on in her career for her weight, when she was still figuring out who she was.Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-railways-ministry-clarifies-fare-hike-and-all-latest-news-101614178817579.html
24-02-2021||India||India rejects Pakistan's criticism of human rights situation in Kashmir at UNHRC||India on Wednesday rejected Pakistan’s criticism of the human rights situation in Jammu and Kashmir at the UN Human Rights Council, saying the government in Islamabad should instead focus on credible action to end state-sponsored terrorism.New Delhi’s response to the criticism by Pakistani human rights minister Shireen Mazari in her address to the UN body in Geneva also described Pakistan as a country with “one of the world’s worst human rights records”, where “institutionalised discrimination and persecution” of minorities has continued unabated.India’s “right of reply” to the Pakistani minister’s speech was delivered by Seema Pujani, second secretary in the permanent mission to the UN. She described Pakistan’s continued misuse of various platforms for “baseless and malicious propaganda against India” as “not new”.Pujani pointed out Pakistan has been the “home and patron to the largest number of internationally proscribed terrorist entities and individuals”, and 126 individuals and 24 entities sanctioned by the UN Security Council are associated with the country.The Indian response called on the UN Human Rights Council to call on Pakistan to take “credible and irreversible steps” to end state-sponsored terrorism and dismantle terrorist infrastructure.“State-sponsored terrorism by Pakistan is a threat not only to India but to other countries in the region and beyond. The recent acquittal of Omar Saeed Sheikh, the al-Qaeda terrorist and murderer of the American journalist Daniel Pearl, by the Pakistani Supreme Court is a clear example of the Pakistani establishment’s nexus with such entities and, as the US secretary of state said, it is ‘an affront to terrorism victims everywhere’,” Pujani added.External affairs minister S Jaishankar, who addressed the UN agency before Mazari on Wednesday, had, without naming Pakistan, said terrorism remains one of the “gravest threats to humankind” and constitutes a severe challenge to the global human rights agenda.Referring to the 2019 decision to scrap the special status of Jammu and Kashmir, Pujani said: “We reiterate that the entire union territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh are an integral and inalienable part of India. The steps taken by the government to ensure good governance and development in these union territories are our internal matters.”The Indian response pointed out that Pakistan, as a country with “one of the world’s worst human rights records”, would do well to “put its own house in order, before venturing to point a finger at India”.“The violence, institutionalised discrimination and persecution faced by Pakistan’s minorities, including Christians, Sikhs and Hindus, has continued unabated. There have been frequent attacks on the places of worship of minority communities, a grave violation of their right to freedom of religion and belief,” Pujani added.The condition of women from minorities, especially Hindus, Sikhs and Christians, is “deplorable”, and an estimated 1,000 women from minorities are “subjected to abduction followed by forced conversion and forced marriage in Pakistan every year”, according to a report from the Human Rights Commission of Pakistan.Shias, Hazaras and Ahmadiyas too face persecution, state-condoned violence and discrimination, and Pakistan has been crushing dissent and engaging in political repression in Balochistan and other regions, the Indian response said.“Enforced disappearances, arbitrary detentions and torture have been used as tools of coercion. Several Baloch human rights defenders have even met tragic death under mysterious circumstances, while in exile. Pashtuns and Sindhis have continued to struggle against the systemic oppression and discrimination,” the response added, pointing to rights activist Gulalai Ismail, who sought refuge in the US after being charged with sedition, terrorism and defamation.In her speech, Mazari had alleged that India was using the Covid-19 pandemic too increase the repression of people in Kashmir. She further alleged that the Indian government has “exploited the pandemic” to accelerate demographic changes in the region.India also used its right of reply to respond to remarks made by Turkey’s representative regarding the situation in Kashmir and the implementation of UN resolutions on the region. Describing the remarks as “completely unacceptable”, the Indian response said it was ironical for Turkey, “which has trampled upon its own civil society, to pass unjustified comments on other’s internal matters”.Punjani added: “As far as the subject of UN resolutions is concerned, we would advise Turkey to practise what it preaches by first implementing those UN resolutions that apply to it.”The Indian response also rejected the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation’s (OIC) “factually incorrect and unwarranted references” to India and said it was regrettable the OIC states “continue to allow Pakistan to misuse OIC platforms to indulge in anti-India propaganda”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-rejects-pakistan-s-criticism-of-human-rights-situation-in-kashmir-at-unhrc-101614177287547.html
24-02-2021||India||Odisha MLA arrested in job scam gets bail, but will remain in jail||The Orissa High Court on Wednesday granted conditional bail to former BJD leader and Gopalpur MLA Pradeep Panigrahy who has been in jail since December last year on charges of defrauding youths of Ganjam district by promising them jobs in Tata Motors.Panigrahi was granted bail with the condition of furnishing bail bonds of ₹5 lakh each with two sureties and ₹24 lakh cash security.Panigrahy has been in jail since December 3 after the Odisha CID arrested him on in connection with a case registered with the Cyber police station under sections 419, 420, 467, 468, 469, 471, 120-B of the IPC and Section 66C, 66D of IT Act. The CID alleged that Panigrahy had collected money from people on behalf of Akash Pathak, son of suspended IFS officer Abhay Pathak, with the false promise of providing jobs in Tata Motors.However, the legislator will not be released from prison as three cases of fraud have been filed by people of Ganjam district at Golanthara police station.In December, the ruling BJD had sacked the 56-year-old Panigrahi from the party on charges of anti-people activities.Earlier this month, the Orissa High Court had quashed an order of the Lokayukta for a probe by the state vigilance department against Panigrahy noting that the complainant and investigating agency in a quasi-judicial process cannot be the same.Last December, the Lokayukta had issued the order on a complaint filed by Vigilance department on how Panigrahy amassed assets disproportionate to his known source of income.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-mla-arrested-in-job-scam-gets-bail-but-will-remain-in-jail-101614178689866.html
24-02-2021||India||India's foodgrain output to rise 2% in 2020-21: Govt||India's foodgrain production is estimated to rise 2 per cent in 2020-21 crop year to an all-time high of 303.34 million tonnes on better output of rice, wheat, pulses and coarse cereals amid good monsoon rains last year, the agriculture ministry said.Crop year runs from July-June.In the 2019-20 crop year, the country's foograin output (comprising wheat, rice, pulses and coarse cereals) stood at a record 297.5 million tonnes (MT).Releasing the second advance estimates for 2020-21 crop year, the agriculture ministry said foodgrain production is projected at a record 303.34 MT.Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar attributed the rise in production to efforts of the farmers and scientists as well initiatives of the central government.As per the data, rice production is pegged at record 120.32 MT as against 118.87 MT in the previous year.Wheat production is estimated to rise to a record 109.24 MT in 2020-21 from 107.86 MT in the previous year, while output of coarse cereals is likely to increase to 49.36 MT from 47.75 MT.Pulses output is seen at 24.42 MT, up from 23.03 MT in 2019-20 crop year.In the non-foodgrain category, the production of oilseeds is estimated at 37.31 MT in 2020-21 as against 33.22 MT in the previous year.Sugarcane production is pegged at 397.66 MT from 370.50 MT in the previous year, while cotton output is expected to be higher at 36.54 million bales (170 kg each) from 36.07 million bales in the previous year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-foodgrain-output-to-rise-2-in-2020-21-govt-101614174922751.html
24-02-2021||India||PM Modi bats for privatisation, says money earned will be used for people's welfare||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday announced in a webinar on Privatisation and Asset Monetisation that the government will push ahead with plans to "monetise" and "modernise" the assets of the country. The Prime Minister said that public sector enterprises which do not occupy a position of strategic importance should not be kept functional. The only responsibility of the government, he said, is to support the country’s enterprises and businesses.“I can understand the need of any public sector enterprise if it is fulfilling the needs of any sector and of any strategic importance. It is the responsibility of the government to supply support country's enterprise and business but there is no need for the government to be in business,” said PM Modi.Reiterating his government’s stance on privatisation, the Prime Minister said, “We have made it clear in the new public sector enterprise policy that government will have limited role in only four strategic sectors and all other public sector units can be privatised.”PM Modi said in the seminar that most public sector enterprises incur losses and that burdens the economy, adding that there is no need to keep these enterprises functional just because they were started as someone’s “pet projects”. The Prime Minister insisted that the push behind privatisation would lead to less governmental interference in people’s lives, reinforcing his previous vision of "minimum government, maximum governance".“We want to stop unnecessary governmental interference in people’s private lives. There should not be a lack of governance or an effect of governance in people’s lives” the PM told the attendants at the webinar.The Prime Minister, while outlining the government’s policy of privatisation, said that 100 government owned under-utilised assets have been earmarked for the task."There are many government-owned under-utilised and unutilised assets. The government plans to monetise 100 government-owned assets. There is ₹2.5 trillion investment opportunity in these 100 assets which are up for monetisation. When government monetizes, that space is filled by the private sector of the country. The private sector brings investment and best global practices with them," PM Modi said.The Prime Minister assured that the money from the monetisation of assets will be put towards welfare policies for the development of the country.“We will increase efficiency of our economy. The money will be used for Jan Kalyan Yojana. The money from asset monetisation and privatisation makes poor people’s home, roads in rural villages, opens schools, and brings clean water for the poor. Even after so many years of freedom we have such lacks in our country,” he said at the webinar.The event was attended by the Department of Investment and Public Asset Management (DIPAM), investors from North America, Europe, Middle East, Asia Pacific, and other top officials from government departments, including finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-bats-for-privatisation-says-money-earned-will-be-used-for-people-s-welfare-101614178024219.html
24-02-2021||India||Cyberabad cops bust racket in Telangana after fraudulent issue of 72 passports||The Cyberabad police in Hyderabad on Tuesday unearthed a major passport racket, in which 72 people obtained their passports fraudulently by showing fake addresses, mobile phone numbers and Aadhaar cards in collusion with two police officials in Bodhan of Telangana’s Nizamabad district, in the last two years.“We have written to the Regional Passport Office, Hyderabad, for cancellation of these 72 passports. We are also coordinating with Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI) for cancellation of their Aadhaar cards, 60 of which were issued in West Bengal. We are briefing district collectors and superintendents of police of various districts in West Bengal to trace these fake Aadhar card holders,” Cyberabad police commissioner V C Sajjannar said.The passport racket came to light on January 25 this year, when the Cyberabad police, acting on a complaint by the immigration authorities at Rajiv Gandhi International Airport, arrested three Bangladesh nationals – Nitai Das alias Sanjib Dutta, Mohammad Hasibur Rehman alias Ramu Das and Mohammad Rana Mia alias Mondal Sandip while they were trying to leave for Dubai.During the profiling of the three accused revealed that they stayed at Bodhan and they had obtained Indian passports fraudulently with the help of one agent Shahnaj Pail from West Bengal who arranged fake Aadhaar cards for them.Subsequently, the police arrested five others involved in the passport scam. They included Parimal Bain from Bangladesh, Shahnaj Patel from West Bengal, Mateen Ahmed Mirza from Bodhan, Peruka Mallesh Rao, sub-inspector of police, Bodhan and B Anil Kumar, assistant sub-inspector of police, Bodhan.“All the arrested have been remanded to judicial custody. Three others – Sameer and Manoj from West Bengal and Sadham Hussain from Mumbai are absconding,” the police commissioner said.The investigation also revealed that the racket was carried out with the help of the two police officials – Mallesh Rao and Anil Kumar, who were in charge of verifying passport applications.“An unusual number of 37 passports were issued on the same address and another 20 passports on another single address. In all, 72 passports were issued to the people belonging to seven addresses, all in Bodhan,” Sajjannar said.The probe also found ed that even the phone numbers mentioned by the applicants were similar. As many as 15 passports had the same phone number and another 13 passports also were issued on a similar phone number.Of these 72 people who had obtained passports through fraudulent means, 19 people had already left for different countries like Thailand, Bahrain, UAE, Qatar, Malaysia, South Africa and Spain.“Special teams have been formed to trace the remaining passport holders and the absconding accused,” the police commissioner said.A case had been booked under Section 429, 468 and 471 of Indian Penal code, besides Section 14 of Foreigners’ Act, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cyberabad-cops-bust-racket-in-telangana-after-fraudulent-issue-of-72-passports-101614177378261.html
24-02-2021||India||Tamil Nadu IPS officer accuses colleague of sexual harassment, inquiry ordered||An Indian Police Service officer in Tamil Nadu has filed a sexual harassment complaint against her colleague, accusing him of inappropriate behaviour during chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami’s recent tour to central districts, people aware of the matter said. The home department has set up a six-member committee to probe the complaint against the officer, the people said, requesting anonymity.Rajesh Das, who was serving as Tamil Nadu’s special director general (law and order) has been replaced by Jayanth Murali, the additional director general in-charge of vigilance and anti-corruption, Das has been placed under compulsory wait, officialese to denote a situation where a civil servant is not given any specific assignment.The transfer orders came into effect immediately. Das, a 1989 batch officer, was not part of the security meetings conducted ahead of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's visit to the Coimbatore district on Thursday.Officials said the alleged harassment happened when the two police officers were on duty for chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami’s tour to central districts.HT reached out to Rajesh Das for his comments. He hasn’t responded to phone calls and a text message. This report will be updated when he does.A senior woman police officer familiar with the details of the allegation said the IPS officer was right to file a formal complaint.“She has done the right thing by filing an official complaint against another senior officer. Nobody should tolerate this and the government should take immediate action,” she said.Additional chief secretary Jayashree Raghunandan is the presiding officer of the committee set up by the government to ascertain the facts of the alleged incident, according to the order issued by home secretary SK Prabakar. Four officers from the police department and a member from the International Justice Mission, Loretta Jhona are its members.“The committee shall take necessary further course of action as per provisions of the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act 2013 on the said complaint,” the home department order seen by HT said.Opposition parties took up the issue, using it to attack chief minister Palaniswami ahead of the assembly elections expected to be held in April-May.Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam chief MK Stalin, “The DMK will never allow this disgraceful situation created by the chief minister for women working in the Tamil Nadu police.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-ips-officer-accuses-colleague-of-sexual-harassment-during-cm-s-trip-101614176193230.html
24-02-2021||India||'TDP-sponsored': BJP on hurling of footwear at party leader during TV debate||A member of Amaravati Parirakshana Samithi attacked the state general secretary of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) S Vishnu Vardhan Reddy with his footwear during a live debate on television in Andhra Pradesh. The shocking incident was captured on camera and the video of Kolikapudi Srinivasa Rao hurling his footwear towards Reddy after a heated argument ensued between them, became viral on social media.The debate on the state cabinet's decision to extend government guarantee for raising Rs3,000 crore from banks for taking up Amaravati projects was aired on Telugu news channel ABN Andhrajyothi. While Reddy was in agreement with the move, he criticised the erstwhile TDP government for borrowing loans. In response, Rao said Reddy was not sticking to the ‘serious issue’ at hand, to which Reddy responded with a comment that enraged the Joint Action Committee member. Reddy asked Rao if he too had to toe the line of the TDP like Rao, a remark which infuriated the latter. He removed his footwear and swung it towards Reddy.While the BJP condemned the attack and requested the television channel to lodge a formal complaint against Rao, party MP GVL Narasimha Rao accused the Telugu Desam Party (TDP) of being behind the incident. ఈరోజు ABN ఛానల్ లో @BJP4Andhra @SvisnuReddy గారిపై శ్రీనివాస్ చేసిన దాడిని తీవ్రంగా ఖండిస్తున్నాను. ఇది టీడీపీ ప్రాయోజిత చర్యగా స్పష్టంగా తెలుస్తోంది. శ్రీనివాస్ టీడీపీ సంబంధం తెలిసిందే. మాకు సంబంధం లేదని టీడీపీ అంటే ఖచ్చితంగా చంద్రబాబు నాయుడు గారు శ్రీనివాస్ చర్యను ఖండించవలసిందే https://t.co/XavZc01GYX“I strongly condemn the attack. This is clearly a TDP-sponsored activity. Srinivasa is known to be associated with TDP. If the party has nothing to do with it, Chandrababu Naidu must condemn the attack,” GVL tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tdpsponsored-bjp-on-hurling-of-footwear-at-party-leader-during-tv-debate-101614175410731.html
24-02-2021||India||After court rap over Disha's arrest, Delhi Police chief explains intent||A day after a court in Delhi gave bail to climate activist Disha Ravi in a case about creating an online toolkit, the city's police commissioner made the force's stand clear. On court saying that the evidence against Ravi was "scant and sketchy", Delhi Police commissioner SN Shrivastava talked about intent."There isn't anything called 'toolkit' as such, but if you use it for misinformation that causes violence, then it is not acceptable. That was the intent here," Srivastava said, explaining the reason behind the arrest of the 22-year-old activist.On curbing misuse of social media, the Delhi Police chief said, "Strict surveillance can be done (of the platform). Anything that spreads anarchy or causes harm, action should be taken against them."Shrivastava further said that police's investigation is still underway in the 'toolkit' matter.Ravi was arrested on the charges of sedition for allegedly sharing a 'toolkit' - a Google document - in favour of the ongoing farmers' protest. The court granted her bail stating that evidence on record was not sufficient to keep a 22-year-old "young lady" with absolutely no criminal antecedents in custody.Additional Sessions Judge Dharmender Rana opined that citizens are "conscience keepers" of government in any democratic nation and cannot be put behind the bars simply because they choose to disagree with the state policies.Ravi was released from Tihar jail on Tuesday night, hours after the judge pronounced the bail order. She was arrested by the Delhi Police's Cyber Cell from her Bengaluru home on February 13.The Cyber Cell had lodged an FIR against "pro-Khalistan" creators of the "toolkit" for waging a "social, cultural and economic war against the Government of India".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-court-rap-over-disha-s-arrest-delhi-police-chief-explains-intent-101614172116278.html
24-02-2021||India||Railways ministry clarifies on fare hike: 'Aim to prevent crowding during Covid'||The ministry of railways on Wednesday clarified that its move to slightly increase fares for short distance passenger trains has been taken to discourage people from travelling amid the coronavirus pandemic. Through the move, the ministry is aiming to prevent crowding in trains and therefore curb the spread of Covid-19. The ministry added that the step was only taken to minimise travelling for the passengers and limit it to only necessary travel.“Covid is still around and in fact worsening in some states. Visitors from many states are being subjected to screening in other areas and discouraged to travel,” ministry of railways said in their press release.The railways also said that they aim to constantly increase the number of passenger trains in a phased manner. Regular trains had been stopped on March 22 last year after the nationwide lockdown was imposed to counter the spread of the coronavirus pandemic.“Indian Railways is constantly increasing the number of passenger carrying trains in a graded manner. Full restoration of regular services of passenger trains, to pre-Covid times, is to be considered keeping in view a range of factors and operational circumstances,” it said.After the lockdown, the railways has operationalised almost 65 per cent of the mail/express trains and over 90 per cent of the suburban services as compared to the pre-lockdown times, according to the ministry, which added that a total of 1250 mail/express, 5350 suburban services and more than 326 passenger trains are presently in operation on a daily basis. Railways is also aiming to gradually operationalise passenger trains which have always been subsidised.The ministry also said that they are constantly monitoring the coronavirus pandemic situation in all states, ensuring that services are restored keeping in mind the coronavirus protocols.India's Covid-19 infection tally crossed the 11 million-mark on Wednesday with the death toll reaching 1,56,567. As many as 13,742 new infections were added to the overall tally in the latest update on the health ministry website on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-ministry-clarifies-on-fare-hike-aim-to-prevent-crowding-during-covid-101614175845687.html
24-02-2021||India||Uttarakhand becomes fourth state with women’s police commando unit||Uttarakhand on Wednesday became the fourth state in the country to have a women’s police commando unit after Nagaland, Kerala and West Bengal.The 22 women commandos began training which included rock climbing, counter-terrorism, bomb disposal, unarmed combat and others.Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat who launched the commando unit at Police Lines in Dehradun said the development was a major step towards women’s empowerment in the state."It is a matter of immense pride that Uttarakhand is the fourth state in the country to have a female commando unit. It will definitely inspire the young girls of the state to choose defence as a career option without any hesitation. They have already been at the forefront in many fields especially in the hilly areas," Rawat said.The chief minister also spoke about imparting primary self-defence training to girls studying in schools and colleges."We will try to provide the training in the coming days as it has become important apart from education in society. The authorities will chalk out a plan for it after which we would provide it on a large scale across the state," he said.Uttarakhand’s director general of police Ashok Kumar underlined why a female commando unit was a necessity."The anti-national forces today are also recruiting female cadres for their ill intentions. To tackle them, a female commando unit was much-needed," he said."Women in Uttarakhand have been playing an active role in many fields and now a female commando unit is just another shot in their arm for empowerment," said Kumar.During the event, CM also launched 148 motorcycle patrol units named Cheetah for policing activities in Dehradun.The CM and other dignitaries at the event also paid their tributes to the two state police personnel who lost their lives in the Chamoli flash flood on February 7.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-becomes-fourth-state-with-women-s-police-commando-unit-101614175458828.html
24-02-2021||India||Assam Congress collects over 1 lakh ‘gamosas’ with anti-CAA message||As part of its state-wide campaign ahead of assembly polls, opposition Congress in Assam has collected over 100,000 ‘gamosas’ (traditional scarf-towels) with anti-Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) messages scribbled on them.The Congress has declared that it won’t allow imposition of the legislation, which eases rules of citizenship for religious minorities from Muslim-majority nations Bangladesh, Pakistan and Afghanistan, in the state if it comes to power.During his visit to the state on February 14, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi had worn a ‘gamosa’ with an anti-CAA message on it and had said that the legislation was a ploy by the ruling BJP to divide the people of Assam.The party’s state wing has said that they would collect 5 million such ‘gamosas’ from across the state and place them at a memorial, which will be constructed if the party comes to power, for the violent anti-CAA protests that rocked Assam in December 2019 and claimed 5 lives.“Our hope for a united and prosperous Assam is alive and thriving as people have truly risen up to fight divisive forces. Amazed that over a period of few days we have already collected over 1 lakh ‘gamosas’ with anti-CAA messages,” said state Congress president Ripun Bora.Lok Sabha MP and chairman of the party’s manifesto drafting committee Gaurav Gogoi took to Twitter to mention the campaign and thank the people of Assam for their gesture.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-congress-collects-over-1-lakh-gamosas-with-anti-caa-message-101614173224895.html
24-02-2021||India||As Centre announces phase 2 of Covid-19 vaccination, Odisha releases 'operational strategy'||Odisha on Wednesday released the ‘operational strategy for initiating vaccination of the elderly population and persons with co-morbidities’. The guidelines were released by the additional chief secretary to the Odisha government, P.K. Mohapatra.Anticipating the high number of beneficiaries to be inoculated in the second phase of Covid-19 vaccination programme, the state government has asked all healthcare institutions, from primary level ones like Community Health Centres and Primary Health Care centers to tertiary ones like Medical colleges and hospitals, to be prepared for vaccinating individuals five days a week, except Sundays, according to guidelines.Healthcare professionals employed as Auxiliary Nursing Midwifery (ANMs) have been relieved of vaccination duty so as to not burden and inconvenience regular healthcare services, the guidelines said. Alternate vaccinators and verifiers will be identified and trained for conducting the inoculation drive. 6 to 7 mobile vaccine units will also be deployed in each block or urban unit for conducting vaccination sessions, the state government's proposed strategy added.A session plan for vaccine and logistic supply and mobility support will be prepared for each and every block, it said, adding that technological support in the form of laptops and desktops will also be provided to teams on site for upgradation of vaccination data and issuance of vaccination certificates. The Union government has said that vaccination certificates will be available across government platforms such as Co-WIN and Digilocker.This announcement comes as the Centre is all set to start the second phase of Covid-19 vaccination from March 1, in which vaccines will be administered to people above 60 years of age and those above 45 possessing co-morbidities, Union minister Prakash Javadekar said during a media briefing on Wednesday. India hopes to inoculate 300 million citizens against Covid-19 by August of this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-centre-announces-phase-2-of-covid-19-vaccination-odisha-releases-operational-strategy-101614173457999.html
24-02-2021||India||AAP is challenge for Congress in Gujarat: CM Vijay Rupani||Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani on Wednesday said the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has emerged as a challenge for the main opposition Congress in the state.The AAP, which bagged 27 seats in Surat city in the February 21 civic elections, will not have any success in the coming polls to municipalities and district panchayats in the state, he claimed."AAP candidates have only won the seats which were with the Congress earlier. So the party has emerged as a major challenge for the Congress (and not for the BJP)," the chief minister said, replying to reporter's question at Bavla near here.The AAP has breached the Congress' citadel and become an alternative to the party in Gujarat, he said."Apart from Surat, the AAP did not win a single seat in other cities. And none of its candidates will win in the coming local body polls. As in the cities, the BJP's winning streak will continue in rural areas," Rupani said.On Tuesday, Gujarat BJP president C R Paatil, however, had said the AAP's entry into Gujarat was "very painful" and the BJP will try to find a way to "deal with" the new entrant.The AAP on Tuesday made inroads in Gujarat politics by winning 27 seats in the Surat Municipal Corporation even though the BJP retained power by winning 93 seats in the 120- seat civic body.The Congress, which had won 36 seats in the SMC in the last elections, drew a blank.The BJP managed comfortable victories in all six municipal corporations - Ahmedabad, Surat, Rajkot, Vadodara, Bhavnagar and Jamnagar.Elections to 81 municipalities, 31 district panchayats and 231 taluka (tehsil) panchayats are scheduled to be held on February 28.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aap-is-challenge-for-congress-in-gujarat-cm-vijay-rupani-101614172767955.html
24-02-2021||India||Ahead of polls, Assam declared ‘disturbed area’ under AFSPA by Governor||Before the assembly polls in the state due in April-May, Assam Governor Jagdish Mukhi on Wednesday declared the entire state as a ‘disturbed area’ for six months beginning February 27.“As per powers conferred under Section 3 of the Armed Forces (Special Powers) Act, 1958, the Governor of Assam has declared the entire state of Assam as ‘disturbed area’ up to six months beyond February 27, 2021, unless withdrawn earlier,” said a release issued by the state government.The fresh order is an extension of a similar move in August 28 last year when the state was declared a ‘disturbed area’ for six months. Attacks on security forces in the northeast and recovery of large amounts of arms and ammunition from several parts of Assam had been cited as a reason for the move.Though there is no official comment yet on the reason behind the extension, government sources said recovery of arms and ammunition in parts of the state could have prompted the Governor to extend AFSPA in Assam.Significantly, the decision was taken a day after 1040 militants belonging to five different rebel outfits from Karbi Anglong region of the state had laid down arms in the presence of chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal.Considered a draconian legislation by some, AFSPA allows security forces to conduct search operations and arrest anyone without any warrant. The provisions of AFSPA are applicable only to seven states in the northeast.At present, besides Assam, AFSPA is in force in Nagaland and parts of Manipur and Arunachal Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahead-of-polls-assam-declared-disturbed-area-for-6-months-by-governor-101614171661116.html
24-02-2021||India||On India-China LAC row, Army chief says 'nobody wants an unsettled border'||Army Chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane on Wednesday spoke about India's position on the standoff with China in Ladakh and said that the resolve of safeguarding the country's interest was shown.The Army chief also said that India's engagements with China should continue as they have in the past and said that nobody wants an unsettled border, reported news agency ANI."As two neighbours who would like to have peace and tranquility on their borders and who would like that all the other engagements which have been going on in the past should continue also in the future," General Naravane was quoted as saying by ANI.Nobody wants an unsettled border, the army chief further said.Talking about the efforts to normalise the situation along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh, he said, "Whatever we did as a government, as a nation, has shown that the resolve that we have in maintaining our interest foremost.""I think that with this 'Whole-of-Government Approach' our relations with China would develop along the path that we wish to develop," General Naravane said.The recent India-China disengagement at Pangong Tso, the army chief said, saw a good end result and termed it as a win-win situation.A border standoff between the Indian and Chinese militaries began in May last year, and a month later, resulted in a bloody clash in Galwan Valley in which 20 Indian soldiers and four Chinese troops were killed.After nearly nine months, the armies withdrew their artillery and camps, marking the disengagement.In a joint statement on Sunday, India and China said that the disengagement of troops in Pangong Lake area in Eastern Ladakh is a significant step forward for resolution of other remaining issues along the LAC in the western sector.The two sides also agreed to follow the important consensus of their state leaders, continue their communication and dialogue, stabilise and control the situation on the ground and push for a mutually acceptable resolution of the remaining issues in a steady and orderly manner so as to jointly maintain peace and tranquility in the border areas.The statement came after the nearly 16-hour-long Corps Commander-level talks at the Moldo border point on the Chinese side of the LAC that began at around 10 AM on Saturday and ended at 2 AM on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-india-china-lac-row-army-chief-says-nobody-wants-an-unsettled-border-101614169227196.html
24-02-2021||India||Uttarakhand CM back from Delhi, buzz around cabinet expansion grows||Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat discussed the cabinet expansion during his Delhi visit and may undertake the exercise after the state budget session, said a senior BJP leader familiar with the developments. There is just a year’s time left for the next state polls."The CM has likely discussed some names for the expansion in cabinet which have been approved by the central leadership. The move will be likely taken by the CM after the upcoming budget session in Assembly from March 1-9," said the BJP leader quoted above who did not wish to be named.CM Rawat met home minister Amit Shah, defence minister Rajnath Singh and Prime Minister Narendra Modi, among other senior party leaders, during his Delhi visit.However, the BJP state leadership said that the move is yet to be discussed in the state.BJP state president, Bansidhar Bhagat, said, "The development is not in my knowledge as I haven't spoken to the CM after his return from Delhi."There are three vacancies in the cabinet. Other than the CM, there are six cabinet ministers: Satpal Maharaj, Subodh Uniyal, Madan Kaushik, Yashpal Arya, Harak Singh Rawat and Arvind Pandey while two ministers of state with independent charge, Rekha Arya and Dhan Singh Rawat.The Opposition Congress termed the exercise a “formality”, stressing it will have no bearing on governance with hardly 12 months left for the elections. Congress state general secretary Vijay Saraswat said that the cabinet expansion will be "of no meaning before the polls”.Political expert SMA Kazmi said, "Though expanding the cabinet just before the elections has got no logic but it is a tactic to pacify those MLAs who have been hoping to become ministers."He also said that it will have no political gains for the BJP but will result in resentment within the party."If the cabinet is expanded then the ministers will practically get a tenure of just 6-7 months as the polls will be held in February with the code of conduct in place in January. No work can be done in such a short period. It will only lead to resentment among those who will not make the cut," said Kazmi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-cm-back-from-delhi-buzz-around-cabinet-expansion-grows-101614172350939.html
24-02-2021||India||Karnataka puts on hold mandatory RT-PCR rule for commuters from Kerala||A week after making negative RT-PCR test reports mandatory for travellers from Kerala, the administration of Karnataka's border district Dakshina Kannada’s Deputy Commissioner announced temporary suspension of the order.“Students, emergency vehicles and those who are working on daily wages will be allowed to come to Karnataka without restrictions, Deputy Commissioner K Rajendra said.The district administration has set up mobile testing centres at the border checkpoints and more than 1,000 samples have been collected so far from these centres after a pike in Cvid-19 cases in Kerala. Similarly, health department officials have been sent to various colleges in Mangaluru to test students coming from the neighbouring state.While the protest from commuters and the difficulties in implementation led to the suspension of travel restrictions, the interdependence between Kerala’s Kasaragod and Dakshina Kannada’s district headquarters Mangaluru has fuelled resistance to such restrictions.For the residents of Kasaragod, Mangaluru city is a lifeline. Even though Mangaluru and Kasaragod are on either side of a map, they are closely knit, say local residents. “Mangaluru, which is referred to as Mangalapuram in Kerala, is the closest city to Kasaragod. From anywhere in Kasaragod, Mangaluru is just 10-50 km away. At the same, the closest city in Kerala, which is Kannur, is more than 100 km away,” Prakash Manjeshwar, a resident of Manjeshwaram in the northern tip of Kasargod.The residents in and around Kasaragod have been thronging Mangaluru for decades for treatment at the speciality hospitals and for education.“Kasaragod doesn't have many good hospitals, schools or colleges. Mangaluru is the only option for us. Because of this, people in and around Kasaragod had struggled a lot during the initial days of the lockdown when the Karnataka authorities restricted travel, especially for those with medical conditions,” said Krishna Kishore, who runs a business in Mangaluru and lives in Kasaragod.Even for Mangaluru, the visitors from Kasaragod are crucial for the local economy. “Most of the hospitals get their patients and colleges get their students from across the border. But most importantly, the workforce for the factories, commercial establishments and other offices come from Kasaragod. Putting any restrictions on travel, like they are doing in Bengaluru is not possible because of these reasons,” said an official of the district admiration, who did not want to be named.After Karnataka passed an order for all passengers from Kerala to produce a negative RT-PCR test taken not more than 72 hours before commencement of the journey to Karnataka, Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, complaining that the restrictions on inter-state movement of people was contrary to the Centre’s instructions.In response, Health Minister K Sudhakar said that Karnataka had not prohibited inter-state travel between the two states and only demanded a negative RT-PCR test report not older than 72 hours.Krishnamurthy Niduvje, a resident of Kasaragod said that there were only three hospitals that conducted RT-PCR tests in his district and the closest place for him to get a test was in Mangaluru.“There are thousands of people who work in Mangaluru and live in Kasaragod. For all of them to get tested every fourth day, in just three hospitals in Kasaragod is not practical. The functioning of companies will be affected by such a decision,” he said.People in the district administration familiar with the development said they plan to resume the negative test certificate by the end of the week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-puts-on-hold-mandatory-rt-pcr-rule-for-commuters-from-kerala-101614172037370.html
24-02-2021||India||Only Motera stadium renamed after PM, complex continues to have Sardar Patel name: Govt||Amid a controversy over a cricket stadium in Gujarat being renamed after Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the government on Wednesday said the name change involves only the Motera stadium and the entire sports complex continues to be named after Sardar Patel.Soon after President Ram Nath Kovind inaugurated the world's largest cricket stadium in Ahmedabad, which will now be known as 'Narendra Modi stadium', social media was flooded with remarks including by some leaders of the Congress and other opposition parties who alleged that the renaming exercise amounted to an "insult" to Sardar Patel.Asked about the allegations, Union Minister Prakash Javadekar, however, told reporters that only the Motera stadium has been renamed and the complex continues to be named after Vallabhbhai Patel.Union Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad, who was present alongside Javadekar at the media briefing after a cabinet meeting, also took a swipe at the Congress leaders, asking whether party chief Sonia Gandhi or Rahul Gandhi have so far praised the world's tallest statue of Sardar Patel erected at Kevadiya in Gujarat.Javadekar said the two Congress leaders have not even visited the statue.Prasad continued, "I want to say this with full responsibility that a tourist place getting global praise has not been visited yet or praised by the two Congress leaders. What else is there to say?"Congress leader Shashi Tharoor tweeted, "Maybe they just realised the stadium was named for a Home Minister who had banned their parent organisation! Or maybe this is advance booking to ensure the next visiting Head of State is hosted here, like Trump? Or is this the beginning of a legacy-creation-thru-labelling spree (sic)?"His party colleague Rajeev Satav said, "Renaming Motera cricket stadium from Sardar Patel to Narendra Modi is an absolute disgrace. This shows how narcissistic our PM has become. This is outrageous and a clear sign of autocratic dictatorship."Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, without directly talking about the stadium, tweeted a Hindi quote of Sardar Patel, "There is something unique in this soil, which has always been the abode of great souls despite many obstacles."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/only-motera-stadium-renamed-after-pm-complex-continues-to-have-sardar-patel-name-govt-101614171320067.html
24-02-2021||India||Rajasthan to have separate agriculture budget from next year: Ashok Gehlot||Rajasthan will have a separate agriculture budget from next year, announced chief minister Ashok Gehlot invoking Mahatma Gandhi’s during the budget for 2021-22 on Wednesday. The CM also said a new power distribution company will be set up for agricultural needs.“Gandhiji had stated that if India wants to peacefully progress, people with money should understand that the soul of the country lies in the farmers,” the CM Gehlot said quoting Mahatma Gandhi.The CM said that his government has always worked in the interest of the farmers, and has brought many welfare schemes including loan waiver.“Continuing the same sentiments, for the prosperous future of annadata (farmers) and protecting their rights, a separate budget will be brought from next financial year,” he saidHe said fulfilling the promise, loans of 20.89 lakh farmers worth ₹14,000 crore were waived.“We had sent a proposal to the Centre for waiving loans of farmers from all nationalised banks but till date no progress has happened. We are making efforts for one time settlement schemes of the banks,” he said.The CM also announced setting up of a new Electricity Distribution Company for agriculture.He added that they are giving a subsidy of ₹12,700 crore and for the next year there is a provision of over ₹16,000.“For adequate availability of power, transparency in electricity purchase and good financial management – I announce the setting of a new power distribution firm for farmers,” he said.The launch of a minifood park in each district, three new agriculture colleges and a mobile veterinary service was also announced.Rampal Jat, president, Kissan Mahapanchayat, said announcement of separate agriculture budget is a good decision.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-to-have-separate-agriculture-budget-from-next-year-ashok-gehlot-101614171339849.html
24-02-2021||India||Bird flu confirmed in Maharashtra’s Palghar, says deputy collector||The district administration of Palghar district in Maharashtra confirmed the presence of bird flu on Wednesday, after 45 chickens died at a local poultry farm, news agency ANI reported. The district administration has ordered the closure of all poultry farms and chicken shops for the next 21 days, ANI further reported.“Bird flu has been confirmed in Palghar, Maharashtra, following the death of 45 chickens at a poultry farm. The district administration has ordered closure of all poultry farms & shops selling chicken for the next 21 days,” ANI reported quoting the deputy collector.On Sunday, the state had reported deaths of 381 birds amid an avian influenza scare. A state government official had told news agency PTI that out of all the dead birds, all but one were poultry birds.Authorities in Maharashtra have so far culled 7,20,515 poultry birds, with Navapur in Nandurbar district bearing the highest toll of 5,86,668 bird. In addition to this some 26,44,177 eggs and 73,004 kilograms of poultry feed have been destroyed in infected zones, reported PTI.Carcasses of dead birds are being buried in lime lined pits to prevent the spread of any further infection. The state government has paid compensation of ₹3.38 crore to affected poultry farmers in the infected zone.Hindustan Times had reported ealrier this week that bird flu scare has pushed many Pune citizens to put up protective nets around their housing societies.“Whenever there are reports of bird flu cases in the country, people become extra cautious and put up nets as a preventive measure. Some customers are also going for double layers of net cover. However, there has been no rise in price of nets. We are keeping more varieties as residents visit our shop after checking options on the internet,” a hardware store operator had told HT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bird-flu-confirmed-in-maharashtra-s-palghar-says-deputy-collector-101614171207825.html
24-02-2021||India||Farmers union writes to President demanding end to 'repression' on protesters||On the occasion of 'Daman Pratirodh Diwas' marked by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) on Wednesday, the umbrella body of protesting farmer unions sent a letter to President Ram Nath Kovind, demanding an end to repression on the protesting farmers and their supporters.According to a press note, several other associated organisations also took up the taluka and district-level protests in hundreds of locations across the country to submit the memorandum to the President.The farmer union body welcomed Bengaluru climate activist Disha Ravi's release on bail in the 'toolkit' document case and hailed many observations made by Judge Dharmendar Rana in his orders, while demanding immediate action against the Delhi Police in this case "who flouted many norms" and arrested Disha Ravi in an "illegal and extra-constitutional manner".Disha Ravi, who was arrested for her involvement in sharing a 'toolkit' on social media in connection with the ongoing farmers' protest, was released from Delhi's Tihar jail on Tuesday after she was granted bail by a Delhi court, confirmed prison officials.The organisation further condemned the action of Bihar Police in Sitamarhi of registering cases against protestors associated with SKM in the rail roko protest and ask for an immediate withdrawal of all such cases.Meanwhile, Mahapanchayats being organised by SKM continue with the strong participation of farmers in different locations of Haryana, Rajasthan and other states.Farmers have been protesting at the different borders of the national capital since November last year, against the three newly enacted farm laws - Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-union-writes-to-president-demanding-end-to-repression-on-protesters-101614170478164.html
24-02-2021||India||Uttarakhand responds to PIL against mining riverbed material on private lands||The Uttarakhand government on Wednesday submitted its affidavit to the high court outlining why it had allowed mining of riverbed material (RBM) on private lands adjacent to the rivers in the state. RBM includes sand, gravel and stones.Riverbed material includes sand, gravel and stones.In its affidavit the government said that since the rivers, especially when flooded, bring riverbed material with them on these private lands, it had decided to grant lease/pattas to private persons for extraction of riverbed material from the banks of rivers in the state.SRS Gill, counsel for the petitioner sought time from the high court to file a rejoinder.“We have sought two weeks’ time for filing a rejoinder (response) on the state government’s affidavit. The court has granted us time and the next hearing of the matter has been fixed on March 17”, he said.A division bench of chief justice RS Chauhan and justice Alok Verma heard the public interest litigation (PIL) filed by US Nagar-based social activist Ramesh Lal, who had had alleged last year that allowing mining on private lands adjacent to riverbeds will give rise to illegal mining, cutting and erosion of the banks, flooding and affect the overall ecology of the rivers in the Himalayan stateIn August last year, the HC had stayed till further order the state government’s May 5, 2020 notification which allowed mining of RBM on private lands adjacent to the riverbeds in the state.The petition had sought quashing of May 5 notification with a specific reference to Clause 1(ka) of Rule 23 of Uttarakhand Minor Mineral Concession Rules 2001 and urged the high court to direct authorities concerned not to grant any lease/pattas to private persons for extraction of riverbed material from the banks of rivers in the state.Gill said under its May 5, 2020 notification, the state government had made an amendment in rule 23 (1) of Uttarakhand Minor Mineral Concession Rules-2001, allowing allotment of mining leases on private land adjacent to riverbeds in the state.The HC in its interim order had stated that according to the counter affidavit filed by the state government, “no permission has been granted to any landowner to carry out mining activity in the riverbeds....on being questioned, the additional chief standing counsel ..submits that extraction from riverbanks is being permitted by the State government on private lands”.Questioning this, the HC in its order had said, “We asked a very specific question as to whether riverbanks form part of a private property. We find no convincing answer to the same. Prima facie, we are of the view that riverbeds and riverbanks are necessarily the property of the State Government. It cannot form part of a private property”.The HC had maintained that “permission for extraction, subject to provisions of law, may be granted in a private land, but there can never ever be extraction on riverbeds and riverbanks. However, the additional chief standing counsel for the State submits to the contrary. He states that permission is being granted by the State for extraction on riverbanks on private property”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-responds-to-pil-against-mining-riverbed-material-on-private-lands-101614169310010.html
24-02-2021||India||Uttar Pradesh passes contentious bill prohibiting conversion from one religion to another by marriage||The Uttar Pradesh Assembly on Wednesday cleared a contentious bill prohibiting conversion from one religion to another by marriage. The Prohibition of Unlawful Religious Conversion Bill, 2021 was passed by the assembly by voice vote.This bill will replace an ordinance which was already in place. The bill will now be sent to upper house of the state legislature and later to the Governor for his nod after which it will become act.The ordinance titled “Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance”, was promulgated on November 24. It outlawed religious conversions by marriage, coercion, deceit or enticement.It prescribed a jail term varying between one to five years, in addition to fines of up to ₹15,000 for those convicted under it. The jail term goes up to 10 years and fine up to ₹25,000 for conversions of women belonging to scheduled caste or scheduled tribe communities or who are minors.The ordinance was promulgated after Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath vowed to end “love jihad”, a term used by right-wing activists to describe marital relationships between Muslim men and Hindu women.The Supreme Court had refused to stay the ordinance, but agreed to examine it. The top court had also issued notice to the Centre and UP government last month.The court sought to know whether the law in question violates fundamental right to practice one’s religion, guaranteed under Article 25 of the Constitution among other rights protected under Article 14 (right to equality), 15 (right against discrimination) and 21 (right to dignity).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttar-pradesh-passes-contentious-bill-prohibiting-conversion-from-one-religion-to-another-by-marriage-101614169446264.html
24-02-2021||India||Phase 2 of Covid-19 vaccination from March 1: When will you get the shot?||The government will start the second phase of Covid-19 vaccination from March 1 and will administer people above 60 years of age and those above 45 with comorbidities with the shot against the coronavirus disease, Union minister Prakash Javadekar said on Wednesday. In the first phase of the country’s vaccination drive from January 17, healthcare and frontline workers were vaccinated.India's tally of infections stands at over 11.03 million, as it recorded 13,742 new cases of the coronavirus disease, health ministry data shows, while deaths rose by a two-week high of 104 to 156,567. The active cases tally is 146,907 and 10,726,702 people have been discharged.When will you get the Covid-19 vaccine?Javadekar said in the second phase vaccine will be for people above 60 years of age and those above 45 years of age with comorbidities at thousands of government and private centres."The second phase of vaccination from March 1 in which people above 60 years of age and those above 45 years of age with comorbidities will be vaccinated at 10,000 government and over 20,000 private vaccination centres," Javadekar said.The second phase of the vaccination will also include armed forces officials, police and vulnerable groups.Also watch | Covid vaccination 2nd phase: Eligibility, vaccine cost and hospitals announcedWill you have to pay?Union information and broadcasting minister Javadekar said that those who want to get vaccinated at government centres will be able to do so free of cost but those who opt for private hospitals will have to pay. “The amount will be decided by the health ministry within the next three to four days as they are in discussion with manufacturers and hospitals," he said.Also read | Covid-19 vaccine at pvt centres to be expensive? AIIMS director explainsAsked if people will have a choice on which vaccine -- Covishield or Covaxin -- they want to take, Javadekar said India is proud to have two vaccines that are both effective with proven efficacy. The vaccine developed by Oxford University-AstraZeneca is being manufactured by the Serum Institute India as Covishield and Covaxin is being produced by Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech.Which documents do you need to register on Co-WIN application?According to officials, an Aadhaar card will not be mandatory for registration. “People can use any ID to register, they just have to make sure that they carry the same proof when they go for vaccination,” an official said.Vaccination certificates will be made available across government platforms such as Co-WIN and Digilocker. The option to register on Aarogya Setu is also likely as the platforms will be integrated, according to an internal note circulated on the Co-WIN application. Also read | 'Expect most ministers to pay for their Covid vaccines': Ravi Shankar PrasadPeople, who do not have a mobile phone, can register using the number from someone in the family. “Up to five members from one family can register on one account and can register to get the shot together,” the official said.How many people have got the vaccine so far?According to government data, more than 12.16 million health and frontline workers so far and has been paid for by the Centre. India hopes to vaccinate some 300 million by August this year.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/phase-2-of-covid-19-vaccination-from-march-1-when-will-you-get-the-shot-101614168939581.html
24-02-2021||India||'To vaccinate people free of cost': Mamata seeks PM's help in procuring Covid vaccine||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking free vaccination for people in the state.The chief minister highlighted the concern that that people in the upcoming elections will be forced to go to polling stations without any vaccination coverage.In order to prevent that from happening, the state government has decided to provide free vaccines to people in West Bengal, Banerjee wrote in the letter."...West Bengal being an election-going state, we are required to reach out practically to every government and para-statal employee on an urgent basis to make the election safe," she said."However, the worrying point is that, in ensuing elections, the people, in general, will be forced to go to the polling stations without any vaccination coverage," the letter read.The chief minister reasoned that it is equally important to reach out to people with a rapid programme immediately for the interest of t health and well-being of all concerned with the election process."Under the circumstances, government of West Bengal has decided to procure an adequate number of vaccines for the members of the public at large," Banerjee said in the letter.In her letter to PM Modi, the West Bengal chief minister has urged the matter to be alleviated to top authorities seeking the purchase of the vaccines "from designated points on top priority in order to provide vaccine free of cost to the people."Earlier in the day, the Bengal chief minister launched multiple scathing attacks on PM Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah, accusing them of spreading lies and hatred throughout the country.She was speaking at a rally at Sahaganj in Hooghly district."I will be the goalkeeper in the assembly polls and you (BJP) will not be able to score a single goal. All shots will fly above the goal post," Banerjee added.The chief minister also condemned the recent CBI interrogation of TMC MP Abhishek Banerjee's wife in connection with a coal pilferage scam, saying it was an "insult to our women".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-banerjee-writes-to-pm-modi-seeks-free-vaccine-for-poll-bound-state-101614164829734.html
24-02-2021||India||Covid-19 vaccine at private centres to be expensive? AIIMS director explains||The government has roped in thousands of hospitals as it is set to begin the second phase of the vaccination drive against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) from March 1. During this phase of the inoculation drive, those above 60 years and those above 45 years of age with comorbidities are eligible for the vaccines in government as well as private centres, the government said on Wednesday. However, the government is yet to set a decide vaccination cost.Following the announcement, All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) director Randeep Guleria said, the private vaccination centres "will allow people to come and get vaccinated the way they feel comfortable. A lot of vaccine hesitancy will be taken care of by this." He also said that Covishield, developed by Oxford University and AstraZeneca and being manufactured by the Serum Institute of India, and the indigenously-developed Covaxin of Bharat Biotech are in the affordable range. “The vaccines of both Bharat Biotech and SII are not very costly. I am sure everyone would be able to afford it," the AIIMS director also said.Also Read | 'Expect most ministers to pay for their Covid vaccines': Ravi Shankar PrasadFurther speaking on the break up of per vaccine cost, Guleria said, "Charges would be to just cover overheads which private sectors would need. Some of which may include the cost of syringes and human resource. Like it was done for testing where charges were fixed to ensure that those aren't misused and the private sector also doesn't suffer loss.""Simultaneously, we have to keep changing the vaccines also to keep into account the new variants that are emerging," Guleria also said.During the country’s first phase of the Covid-19 vaccination drive, only health workers and frontline workers were vaccinated in the government-listed centres. India has inoculated 10,767,000 people against Covid-19 so far in the first phase of vaccination. Out of this, 1.4 million people have received a second dose as well, the Union minister Prakash Javadekar said in the briefing on Wednesday.India's Covid-19 tally reached 11,030,176 and the death toll stands at 156,567, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Wednesday morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-vaccine-at-pvt-centres-to-be-expensive-aiims-director-explains-101614167873140.html
24-02-2021||India||Union Cabinet approves President’s Rule in Puducherry||The Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved a proposal to impose President’s Rule in Puducherry. The Union territory has been without an elected government after the V Narayanasamy-led Congress government failed to prove its majority in the Puducherry assembly earlier this week. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and its allies did not stake a claim to form the government. Telangana governor Tamilisai Soundararajan, who has been given additional charge of Puducherry, recommended President’s Rule in the election-bound Union territory.Also Read | Won’t work in Maharashtra: Shiv Sena targets BJP after Puducherry govt collapseAnnouncing the Cabinet’s decision, Union minister Prakash Javadekar said, “In Puducherry, the chief minister has resigned, and nobody has staked a claim to form the government. Therefore, the lieutenant governor (L-G) has recommended suspending the 14th assembly. Now, our approval will be sent to the President. After his approval, the assembly will stand dissolved.”The Congress government was reduced to a minority after five of its MLAs and one from ally Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) resigned. The chief minister resigned after failing the floor test. The Congress-DMK ruling alliance had 12 MLAs, including the Speaker of Puducherry assembly, while the opposition, led by the All Indian NR Congress, had 14 on its side. While Narayanasamy blamed the former L-G Kiran Bedi for colluding with the opposition to topple his government, the BJP blamed him for misrule and failing to administer the Union territory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/union-cabinet-approves-president-s-rule-in-puducherry-101614168106705.html
24-02-2021||India||Threatened by MP police for pulling them up for inaction in murder case: Judge||An additional district judge in Madhya Pradesh’s Damoh has written to his seniors alleging threat from the police over his insistence that they arrest Govind Singh, the husband of Bahujan Samaj Party lawmaker Ramabai Singh, for allegedly murdering Congress leader Devendra Chaurasia in 2019.RP Sonkar, who is conducting the trial in the murder case, alleged the police were supporting Govind Singh and maligning his image. He wrote to the sessions judge two days after a police officer accused Sonkar of harassing and insulting her for the delay in Govind Singh’s arrest.Also Read | Rajasthan: Judge recuses himself in Robert Vadra caseGovind Singh and four others are were accused of killing Chaurasia in front of his son in March 2019. Criminal charges were earlier dropped against Govind Singh after a police investigation. He was again named accused in January on the orders of Sonkar. Sonkar also issued an arrest warrant against Govind Singh, who is absconding.“Superintendent of police [SP] with his subordinates is trying to malign my image. I am sure that the accused and SP Damoh with his subordinates can level false serious charges against me. I fear happening of an untoward incident with me,” wrote Sonkar. He requested the sessions judge to transfer the hearing of the case to some other judge.Sonkar accused sub-divisional police officer Bhawna Dangi of making false accusations against him.On February 6, Dangi wrote to chief minister Shivraj Singh Chauhan, state police chief, and Madhya Pradesh high court accusing Sonkar of harassment.Sonkar, Dangi, and SP Hemant Chauhan could not be contacted for comments.Rambai Singh refused to comment, and she said justice will prevail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/threatened-by-mp-police-for-pulling-them-up-for-inaction-in-murder-case-judge-101614166667860.html
24-02-2021||India||'Expect most ministers to pay for their Covid vaccines': Ravi Shankar Prasad||After Centre's announcement that the second phase of coronavirus vaccine inoculation will begin on March 1, Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said that he hoped most minister will pay for their jabs.Union minister Prakash Javadekar, who was also addressing a press conference on Cabinet decisions along with Prasad, announced that vaccination is going to be free at government clinics but people would need to pay for it at private hospitals.Also Read: Phase 2 of Covid vaccination from Monday; jabs to start at private hospitals too"People above the age of 60 and those over 45 with comorbidities can get vaccinated at government and private clinics in this phase," Javadekar said. "At government clinics, the jobs would be given for free while private hospitals will charge the patients for it," he added. "The amount they would need to pay will be decided by the health ministry within 3-4 days as they are in discussion with manufacturers and hospitals," said the minister.As many as 20,000 private hospitals and 10,000 government centres will be rendering their services in the second round of the Covid-19 vaccination programme. The first round of the drive began on January 16 and healthcare workers including those working in government as well as private facilities, sanitation workers, other frontline workers, defence forces, police and other paramilitary forces are being vaccinated in it. The second phase will also cater to the armed forces.Also Read: Govt to decide Covid-19 vaccine price in pvt hospitals soon: MinisterThe announcement comes in the wake of India's Covid infection tally crossing the 11 million-mark. The country's death toll is at 156,567, with 104 fresh fatalities being recorded on Wednesday. As many as 13,742 new infections were added to the overall tally in the latest update on the health ministry website on Wednesday.Covishield, being manufactured by the Serum Institute of India in association with Oxford-AztraZeneca, and Covaxin, being developed by Bharat Biotech, are being used in the vaccination drive. Other than meeting the needs of the nation, India has also exported vaccines developed indigenously to over 70 nations, external affairs minister S Jaishankar said on Tuesday. "India has pledged its vaccine manufacturing capacity to make vaccines accessible and affordable to all. From Bangladesh to Brazil and from Morocco to Fizi, the pharmacy of the world is supplying millions of vaccine doses to more than 70 countries", he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/expect-most-ministers-to-pay-for-their-covid-vaccines-ravi-shankar-prasad-101614165776300.html
24-02-2021||India||'Set on fire after failed gang rape attempt,' says UP college student||A college student who was found without clothes and severely burnt lying along a national highway in Shahjahanpur in Uttar Pradesh has claimed she was set on fire after a failed attempt to gang-rape her, police said on Wednesday.According to Superintendent of Police S Anand, the girl told investigators that three people tried to rape her in a field near Rai Kheda village on Monday and when they did not succeed, they poured kerosene and set her on fire.The BA second-year student was admitted to a hospital in the district and later referred to Lucknow.The police officer, however, added that she frequently changed her statements and also said that she was not aware how she reached the hospital from the third floor of her college building.In CCTV footage, the girl was seen coming down alone from the third floor, the police said."Investigations with the help of CCTV footage have found that the girl went out of the college campus from a broken outer wall about 20 minutes after entering the premises and was seen walking alone on a canal road," Anand said.Prior to that, the girl could be seen talking to her friends outside a classroom and visiting a library, the SP said.Three teams led by deputy superintendents of police (Dy SPs) as well as an SOG team have been deployed. Besides, another team led by a Dy SP with five policemen is present in Lucknow's SPM Civil Hospital where she is undergoing treatment for 72 per cent burns. Earlier reports said she suffered 60 per cent burns.After recording the girl's statement in Lucknow, the investigating officer will take up the matter, the SP said.Over a dozen students of the college, including her friends, have been questioned.The girl had called one person of her village on mobile phone on the day of incident and he has also been questioned, the SP said.According to Asif Ali, a resident of the village where she was found lying without clothes, the villagers had covered her with a stole before calling the police.The SP said that in the field where she was lying, some tumblers were found but there was no trace of liquor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/set-on-fire-after-failed-gang-rape-attempt-says-up-college-student-101614166112902.html
24-02-2021||India||President's rule in Puducherry to vaccination drive: Key highlights of Cabinet meet||Union ministers Ravi Shankar Prasad and Prakash Javadekar on Wednesday announced several decisions taken by the Centre in the Union Cabinet meet held via video-conferencing.The Cabinet meet was held ahead of the Election Commission of India's meeting today to finalise the upcoming Assembly elections of five states.From announcing the next phase of Covid-19 vaccination drive to approving President's rule in Puducherry, the ministers announced the Centre's new policy moves and administrative decisions.Here are some of the key decisions announced after the Union Cabinet meeting:Govt announces second phase of Covid-19 inoculation for senior citizens, people with comorbiditiesThe cabinet cleared the starting of the second phase of Covid-19 inoculation, which will include senior citizens and people with comorbidities. "Everyone above the age of 60 and those over 45 and having other illnesses will be able to get Covid-19 vaccine from March 1 for free at government facilities and for a charge at many private hospitals," Javadekar said at a press conference.Javadekar also said that the proposal to this effect was approved at a meeting of the Union Cabinet, chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. "While the vaccine will be given for free at government centres, it will be available for a charge, to be decided later, at many private hospitals," he added.Cabinet approves President's Rule in PuducherryThe Union Cabinet has approved a proposal to impose President's Rule in Puducherry, days after a Congress-led government in the union territory lost power just before a trust vote.Announcing the Cabinet decision, Javadekar told reporters that the decision was taken as no party claimed to form a government in Puducherry following the resignation of the chief minister there.Subsequently, the Lieutenant General had recommended President's Rule in Puducherry and the Union Cabinet has approved the same, the minister said.After the President's assent, the assembly will get resolved, Javadekar said, adding that further necessary steps for administrative work in Puducherry would be taken soon.He also noted that the model code of conduct is expected to come into effect soon after the Election Commission announces the dates for elections there, along with four states.Govt clears PLI scheme to boost manufacturing of laptops, tablets, PCsThe cabinet also cleared a production-linked incentive (PLI) scheme for laptops, tablets, all-in-one PCs and servers, as it looked to woo global players to tap India's manufacturing capabilities.The approval of the PLI scheme for these hi-tech IT hardware gadgets comes after the Cabinet last week cleared a ₹12,195 crore scheme for telecom equipment manufacturing.Briefing reporters after a meeting of the Cabinet, Communications and IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said the Cabinet cleared the about ₹7,350 crore PLI scheme for IT hardware that would cover laptops, tablets, all-in-one PCs and servers.Cabinet's nod to Production Linked Incentive scheme for pharmaceuticalsThe Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved the Production Linked Incentive (PLI) Scheme for financial year 2020-21 to 2028-29.The scheme will benefit domestic manufacturers, help in creating employment and is expected to contribute to the availability of a wider range of affordable medicines for consumers, a statement issued by the ministry of chemicals and fertilisers said.It added that the PLI scheme is expected to promote the production of high-value products in the country and increase the value addition in exports. "The total incremental sales of ₹2,94,000 crore and total incremental exports of ₹1,96,000 crore are estimated during six years from 2022-23 to 2027-28," the statement read.The scheme, the ministry said, is expected to generate employment for both skilled and unskilled personnel, estimated at 20,000 direct and 80,000 indirect jobs as a result of growth in the sector.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/presidents-rule-in-puducherry-to-vaccination-drive-key-highlights-of-cabinet-meet-101614163616004.html
24-02-2021||India||News updates from HT: Kejriwal lauds AAP’s performance in Gujarat civic polls and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.'125-year-old Congress defeated': Arvind Kejriwal on AAP's performance in Gujarat civic pollsAam Aadmi Party (AAP) chief Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday said he will visit Gujarat on February 26, after his party's stunning performance in civic polls. Read moreTamil Nadu assembly elections: Parties eye Hindu votesDravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) president MK Stalin recently held a silver vel, the spear wielded by Tamil deity Murugan, which was presented to him by temple priests at a village council meeting in Tiruttani district. Read moreWill be goalkeeper in polls, won't let BJP score a single goal: Mamata BanerjeeWest Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday launched a sharp attack on the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and said she would ensure that it does not leave a mark in the upcoming assembly elections in the state. Read moreUK coronavirus variant likely to fuel another surge in US come spring: ReportSome US experts have predicted that the coronavirus variant, B.1.1.7, first detected in the United Kingdom is likely to drive a new wave of transmission in the spring, according to a CNN report. Read more‘Ready to discuss’: Tomar reacts to Tikait's remark about 40 lakh tractor marchUnion agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Wednesday responded to Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait’s call for a second tractor march to Delhi. Tomar said that the government is ready to discuss the demands of the farmers and is committed to the welfare of the farmers. Read moreHyundai's upcoming 7-seater premium SUV to be officially called Alcazar in IndiaHyundai Motor India on Wednesday announced that its upcoming 7-seater premium SUV will be officially named Alcazar. The company had registered the name in 2020. Read moreIndia vs England: Ishant Sharma becomes 2nd Indian pacer to play 100 Tests after Kapil DevIndia fast bowler Ishant Sharma achieved a huge milestone as he was named in the playing XI for the third Test against England at the Motera Stadium (now renamed to Narendra Modi Stadium) in Ahmedabad. Read moreDeepika Padukone, Ranveer Singh twin in all-black for late dinner in MumbaiBollywood power couple Deepika Padukone and Ranveer Singh don't only set couple goals with their adorable and enviable chemistry with each other, but are also included in the list of best dressed celebrities in B-Town, and for good reason. Read moreGangubai Kathiawadi teaser: Meet Alia Bhatt as the queen of KamathipuraThe teaser of the much-awaited Alia Bhatt-starrer Gangubai Kathiawadi was unveiled on Wednesday. The film has been directed by Sanjay Leela Bhansali. Read moreJanhvi Kapoor sparks Roohi promotions in a neon sweetheart strapless silk dressPutting her best fashion foot forward, Roohi star Janhvi Kapoor has once again left fans swooning over her sartorial sensibilities as she sparked off the promotions of her upcoming comedy horror film in a jaw-dropping style. Read more139-year-old two-storey house moved 6 blocks. Watch jaw-dropping videoA 139-year-old Victorian home moved to a new address, literally, after it was towed six blocks from one street in San Francisco to another. A timelapse video of this incredible – and almost unbelievable - incident has now captured people’s attention after being shared by Twitter user Anthony Venida. Read moreWatch: ‘Justice has been done’: Disha Ravi’s father on her bail in Toolkit case||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-kejriwal-lauds-aap-s-performance-in-gujarat-civic-polls-101614163818327.html
24-02-2021||India||'125-year-old Congress defeated': Arvind Kejriwal on AAP's performance in Gujarat civic polls||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) chief Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday said he will visit Gujarat on February 26, after his party's stunning performance in civic polls. The AAP won 27 seats in Surat in its first outing. The BJP secured 93 out of the 120 seats in Surat, while Congress and other parties did not win any seats."AAP has performed very well in the local body polls in Gujarat. I thank the people of Gujarat and especially of Surat. 125 years-old Congress party has been defeated and a new party - the AAP is given responsibility as the main opposition party. Our every candidate will work with honesty," the Delhi chief minister said."I will be visiting Surat on February 26 to thank the people for helping Aam Aadmi Party emerge as the main opposition party in Gujarat local body polls and rejecting Congress," Kejriwal added.Also Read: Failure of Congress, not emergence of AAP, says BJPKejriwal said that a new type of politics has emerged from Gujarat - the politics of honesty. "It is based on work done. It is the politics of good schools, hospitals and cheap electricity. We will develop Gujarat along with developing the lives of people of the state," the AAP chief said.The Congress failed to open its account in Surat for the first time since 1995, prompting its city president Sagar Raika to quit. In the 2015 elections, the Congress won 36 seats out of a total of 116 in the SMC. The AAP, which did not win any seats in its first electoral foray in Gujarat in the 2014 Lok Sabha polls, chose to fight the elections at the grassroots level this time before graduating to the 2022 state polls.Promising to be an alternative to the BJP and the Congress, the party contested without its national convener Kejriwal. But Delhi’s deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia conducted road shows that drew healthy crowds, especially in Surat.AAP registered victories in areas dominated by the Patidar community, and where the Patidar Anamat Andolan Samiti (PAAS), of which Congress leader Hardik Patel was once the convener, held sway. The PAAS threw its lot behind the AAP this time.The BJP on Tuesday put up a spectacular performance in the Gujarat municipal corporation elections, improving its numbers over the 2016 polls and nearly decimating the Congress.The party is set to retain power in all municipal corporations, which went to the polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/arvind-kejriwal-on-aap-s-performance-in-gujarat-civic-polls-125-year-old-congress-defeated-101614165162111.html
24-02-2021||India||Bihar policeman, criminal killed in encounter in Sitamarhi||Two persons including a sub inspector (SI) were killed in a gun battle between a police team and criminals in Majorganj in Bihar’s Sitamarhi district Wednesday noon, police said.Police have launched a manhunt for an unspecified number of criminals after the shootout.Four persons including a police chowkidar of Kuari Madan village were also injured. The injured chowkidar, identified as Lal Babu Paswan was first taken to the primary health center at Majorganj and later shifted to the sadar hospital at Sitamarhi town. Doctors said his condition is precarious.Eyewitness said the encounter took place at around 12.15 pm when the police team, led by the deceased sub-inspector Vinod Ram went to the house of a fugitive gangster and alleged liquor smuggler.“As soon as the police team reached the house, the criminals started firing on them. The SI died on the spot after a bullet hit him on the forehead,” said an eyewitness on condition of anonymity.Another villager Satish Prasad said that the body of another person was found on the road connecting Kuari village to Madhopur, hardly half a kilometer away from the site of the encounter. He also said that he saw another person drenched in blood fleeing towards Madhopur village.Sitamarhi’s superintendent of police Anil Kumar Singh said the body was that of the criminal that the police had gone to arrest.“The body was that of Ranjay Kumar Singh whom the police team wanted to arrest,” Singh said.Sitamarhi who had rushed for the spot denied there was an encounter with the liquor mafia but said the gun battle took place between police personnel and criminals.“The team was sent to the Kuari Madan village to arrest a wanted criminal, who along with his associates and family members attacked the police team. We have cordoned the entire area and a massive manhunt has started to nab the criminals. No one will be spared,” he said shortly after the encounter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-policeman-killed-in-encounter-with-criminals-in-sitamarhi-101614164196510.html
24-02-2021||India||Govt to decide Covid-19 vaccine price in pvt hospitals soon: Minister||Union minister Prakash Javadekar said on Wednesday people who want to get vaccinated at private centres in the second phase of the government’s inoculation drive from March 1 will have to pay for the Covid-19 shots. “The vaccine will be given free of cost at government centres. Those who would take the vaccine at private centres will have to pay. The amount will be decided by the health ministry within the next three to four days as they are in discussion with manufacturers and hospitals," the minister said at a media briefing after the Union cabinet met.Javadekar said a proposal to this effect was approved at a meeting of the Union cabinet, which was chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The amount to be paid for the vaccine at private hospitals will be decided by the health ministry within a few days after discussions with manufacturers and hospitals.Javadekar also said that people above 60 years of age and those above 45 years of age with comorbidities will be vaccinated in the second phase. The government has roped in 20,000 private hospitals and 10,000 government centres for the second round of the Covid-19 vaccination programme. In the second phase, those above 50 years and those under 50 years with co-morbidities will be vaccinated. The second phase of the vaccination will also include armed forces and police personnel.The first phase of the nationwide vaccination drive began on January 16. In the first phase, the focus was on vaccinating healthcare workers - government as well as private - sanitation workers, other frontline workers, defence forces, police and other paramilitary forces.Oxford-AztraZeneca's vaccine, which is being manufactured by the Serum Institute of India (SII) as Covishield, and indigenously-developed Covaxin of Bharat Biotech are being used in the vaccination drive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-to-decide-covid-19-vaccine-price-in-pvt-hospitals-soon-minister-101614163562269.html
24-02-2021||India||Motera stadium renamed Narendra Modi Stadium; President Kovind inaugurates venue||The world’s largest cricketing arena, Motera Stadium in Ahmedabad, Gujarat, was renamed Narendra Modi Stadium on Wednesday. President Ram Nath Kovind formally inaugurated the stadium in the presence of Union home minister Amit Shah ahead of India and England’s test match here later in the day.The President also performed the ground-breaking ceremony of Sardar Patel Sports Enclave of which the stadium will be a part. On this day last year, the stadium, which can accommodate 130,000 spectators, was the venue for PM Modi’s mega rally with then US President Donald Trump.Addressing the inaugural ceremony, Shah said a sports complex will also be built in Naranpura which, along with the Sardar Patel enclave, and Narendra Modi Stadium, will be equipped to host even international sports events.“Ahmedabad will then be known as the sports city of India,” he said.Also Read | Motera stadium renamed after PM Modi: All you need to know about itUnion minister of state for sports Kiren Rijiju, who also attended the event, said, “It is a proud moment for India and not just cricket. While it is the largest cricket ground, it’s also one of the most modern stadiums in the world.”The third five-day test match, a day/night match, begins on Wednesday.Son of the home minister and Board of Control for Cricket in India secretary Jay Shah was also present at the event.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/motera-stadium-renamed-after-pm-modi-president-kovind-inaugurates-it-101614163127106.html
24-02-2021||India||Cabinet approves President's Rule in Puducherry||The Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved a proposal to impose President's Rule in Puducherry, days after a Congress-led government in the union territory lost power during a vote of confidence.Announcing the Cabinet decision, Union Minister Prakash Javadekar told reporters that the decision was taken as no party claimed to form a government in Puducherry following the resignation of the chief minister there.Also Read | Won’t work in Maharashtra: Shiv Sena targets BJP after Puducherry govt collapseSubsequently, the Lieutenant General had recommended President's Rule in Puducherry and the Union Cabinet has approved the same, the minister said.After the President's assent, the assembly will get resolved, Javadekar said, while adding that further necessary steps for administrative work in Puducherry would be taken soon.He also noted that the model code of conduct was expected to come into effect soon after the Election Commission announces the dates for elections there, along with four states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cabinet-approves-president-s-rule-in-puducherry-101614162856909.html
24-02-2021||India||BJP will get befitting reply for 'subverting' mandate in Puducherry: Moily||Accusing the BJP of using money power to make the Congress government fall in Puducherry, senior Congress leader M Veerappa Moily on Wednesday said the people will give a befitting reply to the saffron party in upcoming polls for "subverting" a popular mandate, and asserted that upholding democratic ideals will be the main issue in the elections.Moily, who is the Congress' senior observer for upcoming polls in the Union Territory, also said the party's alliance with Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) will continue, and together they will get a "thumping" majority in the elections.In an interview with PTI, Moily claimed the Puducherry polls will mark the "beginning of the fall of the BJP" in the country and the strengthening of democratic power through the Congress party.Lashing out at the BJP, the former Union minister said they never allowed the Congress government to function in Puducherry by fronting then Lieutenant Governor Kiran Bedi."Her only exclusive mission was that the Congress government does not function.From time to time, the issue was brought to the notice of Prime Minister (Narendra Modi) and Home Minister (Amit Shah), either through media or directly by the CM V Narayansamy, but they did not listen," Moily said.His attack on BJP comes two days after the Congress government in Puducherry fell after Chief Minister Narayanasamy resigned ahead of the confidence vote in the Assembly with the coalition ministry reduced to a minority due to a spate of resignations of party MLAs and a DMK legislator recently.Moily alleged the central government led by Modi and Shah "killed democracy" in Puducherry for the last four-five years as no development programme was allowed to prosper.He claimed that MLAs were also suffocated and were given the impression that even if the government was elected back, Bedi will not allow even the new dispensation to function."They (BJP) lured them with money and power. The MLAs were tempted as they were already frustrated with the government not being allowed to function," he said.Moily described the spate of resignations of MLAs and the fall of the government as an "open massacre of democracy directly abetted" by the Government of India through the Lieutenant Governor.However, he said the government fell not because of the spate of resignations but due to nominated MLAs being allowed to vote."Nominating three MLAs and giving them the power to vote was the most undemocratic thing that could be done. Even the judiciary also did not act very quickly," he said.Asked about Bedi's removal as LG recently, Moily claimed that the BJP thought that it would help them in the polls as the electorate would have run against it because she did not allow the government to function."So, they want to put everything on Kiran Bedi. Even though Kiran Bedi was only a puppet in their hands now they will put everything on her and say she has done it and we have no role to play. This is the game played against Congress," he alleged.On what would be the key poll plank in the upcoming elections, Moily said upholding democratic ideals will be the main issue."Supporting BJP in Puducherry would mean writing the epitaph of the Constitution, in other words, people will not vote for BJP because of the game played by it against the basic tenets of democracy," he said.Moily said the polls will be about the subversion of people's mandate by the BJP."This naked display of autocracy and throwing the principles of democracy to the wind will be given a befitting reply by the electorate," he said.Moily hailed Narayansamy for his work as the chief minister while dealing with natural calamities and in controlling COVID-19."The people will punish them (BJP). They have committed the gravest crime by obstructing benefits of development to reach people," he said.Moily said the people of Puducherry have seen through the BJP's game plan."The ugly demonstration of their money power, political power, and intolerance to other party's rule will have to come to an end in this country and Puducherry will be the real field to demonstrate that," he said.With the exit of the Congress government in Puducherry, Punjab, Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh are the only three states in the country ruled by the party on its own.Elections for the 30 assembly seats in Puducherry are likely to take place in the next few months.Moily also asserted that the fall of the Congress governments in Madhya Pradesh last year and in Puducherry was completely different."In Puducherry, it is not about the elected MLAs, it was the nominated MLAs who led to the government's fall. If there was no voting power to the nominated MLAs, the government would not have fallen," he said. Congress will bounce back, Moily added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-will-get-befitting-reply-for-subverting-mandate-in-puducherry-moily-101614159029013.html
24-02-2021||India||Covid-19: Hotels, eateries to stay shut in Nagpur on weekends||Considering the recent rise in Covid-19 cases, the civic body in Maharashtra's Nagpur city on Wednesday directed that restaurants, hotels and eateries will remain closed on weekends till further orders, an official said.This comes after the district administration on Monday ordered the shutting of schools and colleges till March 7.In a revised order, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has informed that restaurants, hotels and eateries along with shops will remain closed on weekends till further orders, the official said.However, kitchens of hotels, restaurants and eateries can continue to function for online food delivery, he said.The order further stated that swimming pools and libraries will also remain closed till March 7, the official said.Following a review meeting, Nagpur Guardian Minister Nitin Raut had informed that the administration has decided to close schools, colleges and coaching classes till March 7.All major markets in the district will also remain shut on weekends, it was stated.Nagpur has recorded 1,44,534 Covid-19 cases, including 4,291 casualties and 1,33,775 recoveries. As on Tuesday, the district had 6,468 active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-hotels-eateries-to-stay-shut-in-nagpur-on-weekends-101614162629705.html
24-02-2021||India||‘Ready to discuss’: Tomar reacts to Tikait's remark about 40 lakh tractor march||Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Wednesday responded to Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait’s call for a second tractor march to Delhi. Tomar said that the government is ready to discuss the demands of the farmers and is committed to the welfare of the farmers.“The government of India is committed to double farmers' income and work towards agriculture's welfare. Discussions have been held many times. If they have a point to raise even now, we are ready to discuss,” Tomar said.While addressing the Kisan mahapanchayat of United Kisan Morcha in Rajasthan’s Sikar on Tuesday, Tikait said that if the Centre does not repeal the three new agriculture laws, protesting farmers will gherao Parliament. He also appealed to the farmers to be ready as the call for the march can be given at any time. "This time the call will be for Parliament gherao. We will announce it and then march towards Delhi. This time 40 lakh tractors will be there instead of four lakh tractors," he said.Follow all updates on Farmers' protest hereThe national capital witnessed chaotic scenes on January 26 as groups of protesting farmers broke off from the planned Republic Day tractor parade routes, hoisting a farm union and Sikh religious flags on the ramparts of the Red Fort. Police used tear gas, water cannons and lathi charges to stop the farmers at various locations in the city. During the tractor rally violence, one farmer was killed after his tractor overturned near the ITO while at least 10 farmers and over 400 police personnel were injured. The Delhi Police registered 48 cases and arrested 150 people so far.Read more: How will farm protests affect electoral landscape?Farmers have been protesting on the different borders of the national capital since November 26 last year against the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ready-to-discuss-tomar-reacts-to-tikait-s-remark-about-40-lakh-tractor-march-101614161389338.html
24-02-2021||India||Cabinet clears phase 2 of Covid vaccination from March 1; those with comorbidities can go to govt, private hospitals||The Union cabinet on Wednesday gave the go ahead to the second phase of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccination from March 1, Union minister Prakash Javadekar announced at a press conference.He also said that people above the age of 60, and 45-year-olds with comorbidities can get the jabs at government as well as private clinics. While private hospitals will charge the patients for the jabs, those going to government clinic will be administered the vaccine for free, he added."The amount they would need to pay will be decided by the health ministry within 3-4 days as they are in discussion with manufacturers and hospitals," said Javadekar.Also Watch: As govt plans to vaccinate common people from March 1, progress so farMeanwhile, Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad, who was also present during the briefing, said he expects that most of his colleagues will pay for their vaccines.The government has been ramping up the existing nationwide vaccination drive, which began on January 16, to start the next phase of inoculation. The urgency of ramping up the drive has been compounded by strong signs since last week that the country may be entering its second wave of Covid-19 infections.Also Read: 19 states, UTs reported no Covid-19 deaths in past 24 hours, says health ministryHealthcare workers - government as well as private - sanitation workers, other frontline workers, defence forces, police and other paramilitary forces are being vaccinated in the first phase.In the second phase, those above 50 years and those under 50 years with co-morbid conditions will be vaccinated. The second phase of the vaccination will also include armed forces and police personnel.Oxford-AztraZeneca's Covishield and indigenously developed Covaxin of Bharat Biotech - approved by India's drug regulator - are being used in the vaccination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/phase-2-of-covid-19-vaccination-from-monday-101614160395949.html
24-02-2021||India||5 top-performing states under PM-Kisan scheme||Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Wednesday awarded five states for effectively implementing the Centre’s Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi or PM-Kisan scheme as it completed two years. This flagship scheme of the Narendra Modi government was launched on February 24, 2019. Under this initiative, ₹6,000 is disbursed to farmers with cultivable landholdings, through direct benefit transfer mode in three instalments of ₹2,000 each.The states highlighted by the agriculture minister for their performance are:Karnataka: In terms of the highest number of beneficiaries authenticated under the PM-Kisan scheme, Karnataka emerged as the winner with 97 per cent authentication. According to official data, over 90 per cent of beneficiaries have been successfully receiving the benefits of the schemeMaharashtra: Maharashtra received an award for effective physical verification and prompt grievance redressal. The Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) ruled state has completed 99 per cent physical verification and 60 per cent of grievances have been properly redressed.Uttar Pradesh: Uttar Pradesh was awarded for the fastest implementation of the PM-Kisan scheme. For the period between December 18 to March 19, the Yogi Adityanath led government enrolled nearly 15.3 million farmers as beneficiaries, as per government data.Arunachal Pradesh: For the northeast and hilly areas Arunachal Pradesh emerged the winner for completing the highest number of Aadhar verifications, with 98 per cent of beneficiaries being verified.Himachal Pradesh: The state of Himachal Pradesh also received an award for stellar performance in physical verification of beneficiaries and grievance redressal. Districts of Lahaul and Spiti topped the list of Aadhaar verification and the district of Kangra performed the best in terms of physical verification.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-top-performing-states-under-pm-kisan-scheme-101614160699833.html
24-02-2021||India||'Dream of PM Modi': Amit Shah at inauguration of Motera cricket stadium||Union home minister Amit Shah on Wednesday thanked president Ram Nath Kovind for inaugurating the Motera stadium - the world's largest cricket stadium - in Gujarat's Ahmedabad. The Sardar Patel stadium was later renamed after Prime Minister Narendra Modi.The stadium will be part of Sardar Patel Vallabhbhai Patel Sports Enclave (SPVPSE) whose bhumi pujan was also done by the President."The programme today lays the foundation for developing sports infrastructure in Ahmedabad. It will be known as Sports City across India - the dream Prime Minister Narendra Modi saw when he was the Gujarat chief minister," the home minister said at the inauguration ceremony.He also talked about the facilities that will be provided to the sportspersons here, and how it will work towards ensuring excellence in all the disciplines of sports.The entire facility of SPVPSE will offer venues for over 20 Olympic Games such as athletics, badminton, football, aquatics, basketball and many other indoor and outdoor sports.The state-of-the-art facility can accommodate an awe-inspiring 1.32 lakh spectators.It opened with the third Test between India and England, a day-night game from Wednesday, and will also host the fourth and final game of the series from March 4.Spread over 63 acres, the stadium has been built at an estimated cost of ₹800 crore.Australian architect firm Populous, which designed the Melbourne Cricket Stadium among others, is the architect of the new stadium.It has 11 pitches made of both red and black soil and is the only stadium in the world to have same soil surfaces for the main and practice pitches.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dream-of-pm-modi-amit-shah-at-inauguration-of-motera-cricket-stadium-101614159637011.html
24-02-2021||India||PM’s vision to build largest stadium in Ahmedabad: Amit Shah as Motera stadium renamed Narendra Modi stadium||As President Ram Nath Kovind inaugurated the refurbished Sardar Patel Stadium in Motera, which has been renamed as the Narendra Modi Stadium, home minister Amit Shah on Tuesday said it was the Prime Minister’s vision to build the world's largest cricket stadium in Ahmedabad. “As CM, he (Modi) used to say Gujaratis must also progress in two fields—sports and armed forces. He took charge of the Gujarat Cricket Association on my request and promoted sports here. His vision was that the world's largest cricket stadium be built here,” Shah said at the event by sports minister Kiren Rijiju among a host of other dignitaries.The Union minister added apart from Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Sports Enclave and Narendra Modi Stadium in Motera, a sports complex will also be built in Naranpura. “These three will be equipped to host any international sports event. Ahmedabad to be known as the 'sports city' of India,” he asserted. The stadium, which President Kovind said is an example of eco-friendly development, can accommodate 132,000 spectators. "I am confident that this enclave will give a new global identity to Ahmedabad in terms of world-class sports infrastructure," the President said as he performed the ground-breaking ceremony for the Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel sports enclave, for disciplines like football, hockey, basketball, kabbadi, boxing, and lawn tennis among others. Union sports minister Kiren Rijiju said that it was a proud moment not just for cricket but for the entire country. “Besides being the largest cricket stadium, it's also one of the most modern stadiums in the world. Ahmedabad is turning out to be the 'sports city' of the country,” he said. The stadium opens with the third Test between India and England, a day-night game from Wednesday, and will also host the fourth and final game of the series starting March 4.Eleven clay pitches of six red and five black soils have been prepared in the stadium, which is spread over 63 acres, according to the ministry of youth affairs and sports. It is the first stadium to use clays of two colours for the main and practice pitches. If it rains, the pitch can be dried in just 30 minutes, the ministry’s statement added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pms-vision-to-build-largest-stadium-in-ahmedabad-amit-shah-as-motera-stadium-renamed-narendra-modi-stadium-101614158978611.html
24-02-2021||India||PM-Kisan scheme completes 2 years: All you need to know||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Wednesday the government is doing everything possible to double the income of farmers as the flagship Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi or PM-Kisan scheme of the Bharatiya Janata Party-led (BJP) government completed two years."Over the last seven years, the Government of India has taken many initiatives for transforming agriculture. From better irrigation to more technology, more credit and markets to proper crop insurance, focus on soil health to eliminating middlemen, the efforts are all-encompassing,” the Prime Minister said in a series of tweets."On this day, 2 years ago the PM-Kisan scheme was launched with an aim to ensure a life of dignity as well as prosperity for our hardworking farmers, who work day and night to keep our nation fed. The tenacity and passion of our farmers are inspiring," he added.The scheme was formally launched on February 24, 2019, with the aim to augment the income of the farmers by providing income support to all landholding farmers’ families across the country.Here’s everything you need to know about the PM Kisan scheme:1. The scheme is centrally funded and became effective from December 1, 2018. The cut-off date for the identification of beneficiaries with regard to their eligibility was February 1, 2019.2. Under the scheme, an amount of 6000 rupees per year is transferred in three instalments of 2000 rupees directly into the bank accounts of the farmers. Landholding farmers’ families from both urban and rural areas can apply for the scheme. However, farmers who pay income tax, institutional landowners and retired pensioners with monthly pensions over 10,000 are not eligible for the scheme.3. Registration for the scheme can be done online as well as offline. In order to register online, farmers have to visit the official website - https://pmkisan.gov.in/. In the farmer’s portal on the official website, to register click on ‘new farmer registration’. Following that, fill in the general information after which registration on the portal is completed. Common service centres (CSCs) register farmers for the scheme as well.4. Aadhaar card is mandatory for registration. Landholding papers and bank account details must also be submitted along with Aadhaar.5. Special provisions have been made in the scheme for the north-eastern states where land ownership rights are community-based and in Jharkhand, which does not have updated land records and restrictions on the transfer of land.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pmkisan-scheme-completes-2-years-all-you-need-to-know-101614158704189.html
24-02-2021||India||President Ram Nath Kovind inaugurates world's largest Motera cricket stadium: All you need to know||President Ram Nath Kovind on Wednesday inaugurated the newly-built Motera Stadium in Ahmedabad which was renamed the Narendra Modi Stadium ahead of the pink-ball Test between India and England.Union home minister Amit Shah and Union Minister for Youth Affairs and Sports Kiren Rijiju were also in attendance on the occasion.The President also performed the Bhumi Pujan of the Sardar Patel Vallabhbhai Patel Sports Enclave, and the stadium will be its part.Here's everything you need to know about the world's largest cricket stadium:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sardar-patel-gujarat-stadium-motera-all-you-need-to-know-about-it-101614158385008.html
24-02-2021||India||2 terrorists killed in encounter in J-K’s Anantnag||Two unidentified terrorists were killed in Jammu and Kashmir's Anantnag district in a gun battle with the security forces on Wednesday, officials said. Security officials were carrying out a search operation in the Shalgul forest area of Srigufwara when the encounter started. The search operation turned into an encounter after the terrorists hiding inside the forest opened fire on the security forces, officials said.The area has now been cordoned off as the encounter is still underway. The identity of the dead terrorists is yet to be ascertained.More details about the encounter are awaited.Two policemen were killed in a terrorist attack in Baghat area of Barzulla in Srinagar district on February 19. One police personnel also lost his life during the firing. In another encounter on the same day, three terrorists were killed and one policeman was also injured in the Budgam area of Shopian district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-terrorists-killed-in-encounter-in-j-k-s-anantnag-101614157745338.html
24-02-2021||India||Palghar lynching case: SC asks Maharashtra Police to place fresh charge sheet on record||The Supreme Court on Wednesday asked Maharashtra Police to place on record the second supplementary charge sheet filed in the case related to alleged lynching of three people, including two seers, in Palghar district in April last year.A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and R S Reddy was informed by the counsel for the Maharashtra government that a second supplementary charge sheet has been filed in the case. The bench said the fresh charge sheet shall be placed before it on record in two weeks and posted the matter for further hearing thereafter.On September 7 last year, Maharashtra Police had informed the top court that it has punished "delinquent" policemen for dereliction of duty in the case.The top court on August 6 last year had asked Maharashtra Police to apprise it of the inquiry and action taken against the errant police personnel in the case.Maharashtra Police had said as many as 18 delinquent police personnel have been awarded varying punishments and some of them have been dismissed from service and some of them have been compulsorily retired.Some delinquent cops have been punished with salary cuts also, it had said, adding that the state's criminal investigation department has so far filed two charge sheets in the alleged lynching case.On June 11 last year, the top court had sought a response from the state government on two petitions seeking separate probe by the CBI and the NIA into the alleged lynching.The bench was hearing petitions including the one filed by sadhus of 'Shri Panch Dashban Juna Akhara' and relatives of the deceased seers.Their plea alleged the investigation by the state police was being conducted in a biased manner.The other plea, seeking an NIA probe into the incident, has been filed by advocate Ghanshyam Upadhyay.Besides the Maharashtra government, one of the petitions has arrayed the Centre, CBI and the director general of police of Maharashtra as respondents in the matter.The three victims from Kandivali in Mumbai were travelling in a car to attend a funeral in Surat in Gujarat amid the Covid-19-induced nationwide lockdown when their vehicle was stopped and they were attacked and killed by a mob in Gadchinchile village on the night of April 16 last year in the presence of police.The victims were identified as Chikne Maharaj Kalpavrukshagiri, 70, Sushil Giri Maharaj, 35, and Nilesh Telgade, 30, who was driving the vehicle.While hearing a separate plea seeking a CBI probe in the case, the top court had on May 1 directed the Maharashtra government to submit a status report on the investigation in the matter.The plea filed by 'sadhus' of 'Shri Panch Dashban Juna Akhara' has sought transfer of the probe to the CBI, claiming that there is "reasonable apprehension of bias" if Maharashtra Police proceeds with the investigation."Several video clippings have emerged on social media and news reports which very clearly demonstrate the active involvement of the police present, who can be seen handing over the three persons to the unlawful assembly of persons gathered," the plea has claimed.The police have arrested over 100 people in connection with the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-asks-maharashtra-police-to-place-fresh-charge-sheet-on-record-in-palghar-case-101614157216230.html
24-02-2021||India||Odisha enhances incentive for marrying person with disabilities to ₹2.5 lakh||The Odisha Government has enhanced the amount of incentive for marrying a divyang person from ₹50,000 to ₹2,50,000 per eligible couple, an official said.The incentive amount under the scheme has now been enhanced from ₹50,000 to ₹2,50,000 per eligible couple, Bhaskar Sharma, commissioner-cum-secretary of Social Security and Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities (SSEPD) Department, wrote to all the district collectors.The department also issued a revised guideline for facilitating and encouraging such marriages.Sharma in the letter to district collectors on February 23 mentioned that during implementation of this scheme, some operational problems were brought to the notice of the department, for which the incentive for marrying persons with benchmark disabilities has been enhanced from ₹50,000 to ₹2.5 lakh.Also read| ‘Take Covid vaccine or else…’, Odisha warns healthcare and frontline workersA cash incentive award can be given to either of the spouses with benchmark disability if the other person marries a person with benchmark disability. The bridegroom and the bride must have completed 21 years and 18 years of age, respectively at the time of the marriage, the guideline said.The guideline clearly mentioned that spouses should not have availed of the incentive award under this scheme earlier and such wedding should be dowry free.While both of the spouses should be residents of Odisha, they can apply online at sspeed@gov.in, the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-enhances-incentive-for-marrying-person-with-disabilities-to-rs-2-5-lakh-101614155388171.html
24-02-2021||India||Disha Ravi gets bail in toolkit case: Key points of the order||A Delhi court on Tuesday granted bail to climate activist Disha Ravi days after the Delhi Police arrested her for allegedly editing a social media document, or toolkit, about the ongoing farmer protest against three central laws. Here are some key points from additional sessions judge Dharmender Rana’s bail order:1. Toolkit did not incite the tractor rally violence on January 26 in Delhi:According to the prosecution, Ravi and the other accused in the case allegedly edited and shared with Swedish teen climate activist Greta Thunberg the toolkit with the intention of inciting seditious activities against India. But Rana found nothing illegal or unlawful about the document. He acknowledged the toolkit had segments on “Digital Strike” through hashtags, “Tweet Storm” and “Physical Action” related to the farmers’ march into Delhi. But Rana pointed out that “any call for any kind of violence is conspicuously absent.”About the alleged sharing of the toolkit with Thunberg, the court said every citizen has a “right to use the best means of imparting and receiving communication, as long as the same is permissible under the four corners of law and as such have access to [the] audience abroad.”Also Read | Toolkit case: ‘Justice has been done,’ says father after Disha Ravi’s bail2. Do not invoke sedition when it is legitimate dissent:Rana cited the distinction between sedition and dissent and questioned if Ravi and others were being targeted because they voiced opposition to the farm laws.Additional solicitor general SV Raju, who appeared for the police, contended the toolkit had embedded hyperlinks with an intent to defame India abroad. Rana found nothing objectionable about one of the two links. About the second link, he agreed it was “indeed objectionable” as it had certain negative imputations about India but held it was still “not seditious” because it did not have the tendency to foment violence.Rana underscored the significance of dissent in a democracy. “Citizens are conscience keepers of government in any democratic Nation. They cannot be put behind bars simply because they choose to disagree with the State policies. The offence of sedition cannot be invoked to minister to the wounded vanity of the governments.”3. No evidence against Ravi or Poetic Justice Foundation (PJF) of conspiracy with secessionist forces:The police sought Ravi’s custodial interrogation citing her alleged links with the pro-Khalistani secessionist group, PJF. They claimed she created the toolkit in association with the PJF members. Canada-based Mo Dhaliwal and Anita Lal were cited as the people behind PJF, who are allegedly known Khalistan supporters.The police conceded that neither was the PJF a banned organisation nor had they registered any criminal case against Dhaliwal and Lal.The court too held there is nothing on record to suggest that there was any call, incitement, instigation, or exhortation on the part of the accused and the organisations and their associates to foment violence on January 26 during the farmer tractor rally.Rana said that there was “not even an iota of evidence” to connect the perpetrators of the January 26 violence with the PJF or Ravi. He added that over 100 people allegedly involved in the violence had been arrested and interrogated “but no evidence connecting applicant [Ravi] with the actual perpetrators” has been brought forth.About Ravi’s links with Canada-based Kisaan Ekta Co, the court noted the police had not even alleged that it was an organisation engaged in seditious activities. Hence, her association would be meaningless for the purpose of this case, it added.The police also failed to establish any link between Ravi and Sikhs for Justice, a banned organisation. “There is absolutely no link established on record between the applicant and the said banned organisation,” Rana said. He added that “there is nothing on record to suggest that Ravi subscribed to any secessionist idea.”4. Creation of a WhatsApp group or editing a toolkit is not an offence:The prosecution alleged Ravi deleted a WhatsApp group called “Intl farmers strike” and also edited the toolkit after it was leaked by Thunberg. But the court said the creation of a WhatsApp group or being editor of an innocuous toolkit is not an offence. “Further, since the link with the said toolkit or PJF has not been found to be objectionable, mere deletion of the WhatsApp chat to destroy the evidence linking her with the toolkit and PJF also becomes meaningless,” said Rana. He called deleting chats “nothing more than an anxious effort to stay away from unnecessary controversies.”5. Cannot keep Ravi in jail to allow police to collect more evidence:The court told the police that it could not allow them to keep Ravi behind bars only to give the investigators more time to collect evidence or to make her sit with other accused.Former additional Solicitor General Sidharth Luthra said the points made in the bail order will be beneficial to the co-accused as well. “Although parity may not be a ground in a case of a regular bail and anticipatory bail which other co-accused have filed, the scrutiny of the evidence by the court will come into play when their cases are taken up.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/disha-ravi-gets-bail-in-toolkit-case-key-points-of-the-order-101614156286082.html
24-02-2021||India||Not wearing masks in Mumbai won't cost ₹1,000, police chief busts fake news||In the wake of fake news and rumours over Mumbai lockdown doing the rounds on social media, Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh has recently taken to Twitter to clear the air. The penalty for not wearing a mask in public remains ₹200, and not ₹1,000 as claimed by viral messages.Dear Mumbaikars! #FakeNews mongers are back again! This time claiming that No Mask can cost you a fine 1000 rupees. While no money can compensate for safety being compromised, you can only be charged Rupees 200 for not wearing a mask. #MaskIsMust #FakeNewsAlert"Dear Mumbaikars! #FakeNews mongers are back again! This time claiming that No Mask can cost you a fine 1000 rupees. While no money can compensate for safety being compromised, you can only be charged Rupees 200 for not wearing a mask," he tweeted.As the state reported a sudden spurt in the number of fresh infections, surveillance in Mumbai has been strengthened. Marshalls have been deployed at Mumbai local rail stations to keep an eye on whether commuters are wearing masks.Maharashtra Covid-19: Record spike in Amravati, districts impose travel banOn Tuesday, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation penalised 14,600 people for not wearing masks and collected ₹29 lakh as a penalty. Since March 2020, over 15 lakh have been penalised contributing ₹30.5 crore as penalty.Several Maharashtra districts have imposed night curfew, weekend lockdown, short-term lockdown as measures to counter the rising number of cases. But no statewide restriction has been put in place. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddav Thackeray earlier said he would observe the Covid-19 situation of the state for a week to 15 days and decide whether the state needs another lockdown. Religious, social and political gatherings have been prohibited in the state from Monday. Uddhav Thackeray has also asked the state's chief secretary to draw up a plan to implement two working shifts at Mantralaya, the government's administrative headquarters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-wearing-masks-in-mumbai-won-t-cost-rs-1-000-police-chief-busts-fake-news-101614155636807.html
24-02-2021||India||HC allows home quarantine for Covid-19 negative family after returning from UK||The Delhi High Court Wednesday directed that the family of four, sent to 7-day institutional quarantine after returning from the UK despite testing negative for Covid-19, be sent to home quarantine for seven days saying the central and Delhi governments' guidelines on the issue were contradictory.Justice Prathiba M Singh issued the direction saying there was "no clarity" in the notifications which were "contradictory" regarding quarantine of passengers coming from the UK and directed the Delhi government to instruct the IGI airport to prominently display on its website the standard operating procedures (SOP) so that no confusion is caused to travellers.The direction was issued in view of contradictions in the stand of the Delhi government and the Centre.The central government said its guidelines only mandate 14-days home quarantine for travellers from the UK if they test negative and institutional quarantine is not advised.The Delhi government however said there was a January 29 central government SOP which stated that all passengers sitting close to a traveller who tested positive for Covid-19 have to be sent to institutional quarantine.Also read| Sputnik V to get approval in India? Expert committee meet todayThe court said, "All these notifications are contradictory and there is no clarity as to which are applicable. There is no clarity whether the January 29 SOP continues to be in operation in view of the stand of the central government."Since there is no clarity about the SOP and the petitioners (family) include two minor children below the age of 10 years, they shall remain in home quarantine instead of institutional quarantine. They shall strictly adhere to the quarantine norms."The court also directed the Delhi government to "give clear instructions to the IGI airport to display the current SOP prominently on its website, so that travellers are aware and there is no confusion."With the direction, the court disposed of the plea by the family challenging the action taken against them.Advocate Ganesh Chand Sharma, appearing for the family, had on Tuesday told the court that all the members were tested for Covid-19 when they arrived here from the UK on February 20 and despite testing negative they were "illegally and unlawfully" sent to institutional quarantine.Also read| Delhi to make negative RT-PCR test must for passengers from 5 statesHe had also told the court that according to the guidelines published on the Delhi airport website, institutional quarantine was not mandatory for all the passengers arriving from the UK and was applicable only to those who tested positive for Covid-19.The guidelines also exempted from institutional quarantine those travelling with minors below the age of 10 years, Sharma told the court.The petition had said that before starting from the UK, the family had undergone a Covid-19 test and they were issued a 'fit-to-fly' certificate.After arriving at Delhi, they were again tested and were found negative for Covid-19, despite which they were sent to institutional quarantine at their cost in a 5-star hotel instead of home quarantine as sought by the petitioners.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-allows-home-quarantine-for-covid-19-negative-family-after-returning-from-uk-101614153804803.html
24-02-2021||India||Sonia Gandhi appoints leaders to discuss seat sharing with DMK: Report||Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi has appointed Oman Chandy and Randeep Surjewala to negotiate seat-sharing with Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) in Tamil Nadu, said sources on Wednesday.The leaders are reaching Chennai this afternoon.According to sources, the leaders will hold talks with DMK tomorrow morning, pier to which they will meet party leaders in Chennai.Elections are likely to be held for the 234-member Tamil Nadu assembly in April-May this year.The Karunanidhi-led Dravidian party has already announced a five-member team, comprising Deputy Chief Minister M K Stalin and others for the seat sharing.Congress has 34 MLAs in the 234-member Tamil Nadu Assembly and lends crucial support to the DMK government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonia-gandhi-appoints-leaders-to-discuss-seat-sharing-with-dmk-report-101614155738685.html
24-02-2021||India||All you need to know about MHA’s 'Ayushman CAPF' scheme||The Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) will be launching the 'Ayushman CAPF' scheme across the country in May. The scheme was first launched by Union home minister Amit Shah on January 23 but was applicable only for the state of Assam. All Central Armed Police Forces (CAPF) officials and serving personnel and their dependents from seven forces—Assam Rifles, Border Security Force ( BSF), Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB), Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), National Security Guard (NSG), and Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP)—will be covered under the scheme.Here’s everything you need to know about the Ayushman CAPF scheme:1. The scheme is a joint initiative by the ministry of home affairs and the national health authority. The purpose of the scheme is to provide cashless health services to the CAPF personnel and their dependents using the Ayushman Bharat PM-JAY IT platform.2. A distinct feature of the scheme is that it will switch from the paper-based manual process of availing healthcare benefits to a paperless service at MHA’s IT platform.3. There will also be a 24X7 call centre, online grievance management system, fraud and abuse control system and real time monitoring dashboards.4. Beneficiaries of the scheme can collect the Ayushman CAPF e-card from respective forces. This card will be activated at empanelled private hospitals using a copy of service ID and Aadhaar or any other government approved photo ID. The e-card can also be obtained from Pradhan Mantri Aarogya Mitra (PMAM) stationed at PM-JAY empanelled private hospital using the same documents.5. Other than the private hospitals, the beneficiaries will also be able to avail free medical treatment at CAPF or Government-owned facilities as per the existing guidelines.6. In case of self-paid medical treatment, beneficiaries will be able to get reimbursements if the self-paid services are availed at CAPF or government-owned facilities or if the self-paid services are availed at non-empanelled hospitals, in case of emergencies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/all-you-need-to-know-about-mha-s-ayushman-capf-scheme-101614155678518.html
24-02-2021||India||Union minister Shripad Naik discharged from Goa hospital||Union AYUSH Minister Shripad Naik was on Wednesday discharged from Goa Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), after undergoing treatment for over a month for injuries he sustained in a fatal accident.Naik was admitted to the GMCH on January 12 after he met with an accident, in which his wife and an aide were killed.The minister is fit for discharge and can continue taking treatment from home, GMCH dean Dr Shivanand Bandekar.Speaking to PTI, Naik said he plans to attend the upcoming session of the Parliament if doctors advise it."I will attend the session of the Parliament depending on doctors' advice," he said, adding that he had watched the last session on television from his hospital bed.Despite being hospitalised, the minister said he has been working and has signed papers, which will be tabled on the floor of the House.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/union-minister-shripad-naik-discharged-from-goa-hospital-101614155572507.html
24-02-2021||India||19 states, UTs reported no Covid-19 deaths in past 24 hours: Health ministry||The Union ministry of health and family welfare said on Wednesday 19 states and Union territories (UT) have reported no Covid-19 related deaths in the past 24 hours. The ministry also confirmed that 104 deaths were recorded across India within the same time frame and five states account for nearly 82 per cent of these fatalities.#Unite2FightCorona104 deaths were reported in the last 24 hours.Five States account for 81.73%of the new deaths. pic.twitter.com/uSrdofk2Ll“Gujarat, Haryana, Rajasthan, Odisha, Jharkhand, Chandigarh, Assam, Lakshadweep, Himachal Pradesh, Ladakh, Manipur, Mizoram, Tripura, Meghalaya, A&N [Andaman and Nicobar] Islands, Sikkim, Nagaland, Arunachal Pradesh, D&D [Daman and Diu] and D&N [Dadra and Nagar Haveli] have not reported any COVID19 deaths in last 24 hours,” the ministry tweeted in its daily update on India’s Covid-19 situation.19 States/UTs-Gujarat, Haryana, Rajasthan, Odisha, Jharkhand, Chandigarh, Assam, Lakshadweep, Himachal Pradesh, Ladakh, Manipur, Mizoram, Tripura, Meghalaya, A&N Islands, Sikkim, Nagaland, Arunachal Pradesh, D&D and D&N have not reported any COVID19 deaths in last 24 hours.Also read | What led to Covid-19 rise? Centre deputes teams to 10 states for probeAccording to data shared by the ministry, 13 states have reported one to five deaths while two states have reported 6 to 10 patients of the coronavirus disease have succumbed. Maharashtra with 51 deaths reported the maximum new fatalities on Wednesday while Kerala follows with 14 deaths.On Tuesday, the health ministry said that 21 states reported no Covid-19 related deaths. “MP, Assam, Rajasthan, Haryana, J&K,Odisha, AP, Goa,HP, Puducherry, Lakshadweep,Manipur, Sikkim,Tripura,Ladakh,Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Ar. Pradesh, A&N Islands, D&D and D&N,” the ministry tweeted.#Unite2FightCorona21 States/UTs have not reported any #COVID19 deaths in last 24 hours. These are MP, Assam, Rajasthan, Haryana, J&K,Odisha, AP, Goa,HP, Puducherry, Lakshadweep,Manipur, Sikkim,Tripura,Ladakh,Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Ar. Pradesh, A&N Islands, D&D and D&N.Sixteen states—Haryana, Rajasthan, Andaman Nicobar Islands, Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu, Arunachal Pradesh, Mizoram, Tripura, Meghalaya, Sikkim, Nagaland, Manipur, Lakshadweep, Odisha, Ladakh, Assam and Himachal Pradesh—have reported no deaths for two consecutive days.India on Wednesday reported 13,742 new Covid-19 cases and 14,307 recoveries. Active caseload currently stands at 146,907, lower than Tuesday’s 147,306. Maharashtra and Kerala continue to report the highest daily new infections with 6,218 and 4,034 cases respectively. The ministry also said that as of 7am on Wednesday, 12,165,598 doses of Covid-19 vaccine through 254,356 sessions have been administered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/19-states-uts-reported-no-covid-19-deaths-in-past-24-hours-health-ministry-101614154736563.html
24-02-2021||India||Idea of climate action should not be to move climate ambition goal post to 2050: India at UNSC||India has said that the idea of climate action should not be to move the goal post to 2050 and countries must fulfil their pre-2020 commitments, calling on the global community to view climate change as a “wake-up call” to strengthen multilateralism and seek equitable solutions for a sustainable world.Minister for Environment, Forests and Climate Change Prakash Javadekar on Tuesday said the delivery on the commitment by developed countries to jointly mobilise USD 100 billion per year by 2020 in support of climate action in developing countries has been elusive.He was speaking at the UN Security Council’s open debate on ‘Maintenance of international peace and security: Addressing climate-related risks to international peace and security'.“The idea of climate action should not be to move the climate ambition goal post to 2050. It is important for countries to fulfil their pre-2020 commitments. Climate Action needs to go hand-in-hand with the framework for financial, technical and capacity-building support to countries that need it,” he said.The year 2050 is when nations have been called on to achieve net-zero CO2 emissions. Emissions must fall by half by 2030 and reach net-zero emissions no later than 2050 to reach the 1.5 Celsius goal of the Paris agreement.He said as nations prepare to meet for the 26th UN Climate Change Conference of the Parties (COP26) in Glasgow in November, there is a “significant opportunity" for countries to integrate low-carbon development in their Covid-19 rescue and recovery measures and long-term mitigation strategies that are scheduled to be announced at the summit.The summit will bring parties together to accelerate action towards the goals of the Paris Agreement and the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change.“Let us then make the transition to a more climate-friendly lifestyle by adapting to a low carbon-development pathway based on our needs and not on our greed. Let us view climate change as a wake-up call and an opportunity to strengthen multilateralism and seek equitable and inclusive solutions to leave a greener, cleaner and a sustainable world for our future generations,” he said.In his speech, Javadekar emphasised that the global community has addressed the issue of climate change through the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change and the Paris Agreement, which together represent a “delicately balanced” global democratic effort to take climate action in a nationally determined manner based on the ‘Common but Differentiated Responsibility and Respective Capabilities’.“Therefore, before we start discussing the issue of securitisation of climate, we need to ensure that we are not building a parallel climate track where these mechanisms and principles are brushed aside or not duly considered,” he said.Noting that even the best science available claims that climate change only exacerbates conflict and is not a reason for conflict and does not threaten peace and security, he said that in a number of fragile contexts, where governments are struggling to provide basic services due to capacity and legitimacy issues, instances of chronic emergency conditions and famine risks are largely driven by continued political violence disrupting harvests and aid supplies rather than by climate factors alone.Javadekar also pointed out that countries’ Nationally Determined Contributions (NDC) are largely about mitigation commitments and adaptation requirements that, collectively, determine whether countries will achieve the Paris goal of limiting the global average temperate increase to well below 2°C.While climate change does not directly or inherently cause violent conflict, its interaction with other social, political and economic factors can, nonetheless, exacerbate drivers of conflict and fragility and have negative impacts on peace, stability and security, he said.India suggested that in order to better integrate climate change adaptation and peacebuilding, there is a need to build robust governance structures at the local, national and regional levels to address climate and fragility-related risks.Javadekar also underscored that impacts of climate change and its associated security risks have important gender dimensions, and women and girls experience the interplay between climate change and peace and security in direct and profound ways.Highlighting the significant steps taken by India to fight climate change and deliver on its commitments, Javadekar said New Delhi’s mitigation strategies have emphasised on clean and efficient energy systems; safe, smart and sustainable green mass urban transportation network; planned afforestation; and integrating green thinking across all production and consumption sectors.He said India is the only country on track among the G20 nations to meet its climate change mitigation commitments and the country is not only meeting its Paris Agreement targets but will also exceed them. India, which currently has the fastest-growing solar energy programme in the world, has expanded access to clean cooking fuel to over 80 million households.India’s commitment of installing 450 gigawatt of renewable energy, elimination of single use plastic, 100 per cent railway electrification, and creation of an additional carbon sink by restoring 26 million hectares of degraded land among other measures have only added to its climate ambitions, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/idea-of-climate-action-should-not-be-to-move-climate-ambition-goal-post-to-2050-india-at-unsc-101614153985957.html
24-02-2021||India||Covid-19: Maharashtra’s Jalna orders shutdown of schools, colleges, weekly markets till March 31||Educational institutions and weekly markets in Maharashtra’s Jalna district have been ordered to shut down till March 31 as cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) have been surging in the state, reports said on Wednesday. Officials said, according to ANI, that the district collector has ordered for a periodical Covid-19 test of all the fruit, vegetable and newspaper vendors in Jalna.“Jalna district collector has ordered to shut schools, colleges, coaching classes and weekly markets in the district till March 31, due to current Covid-19 situation. Rapid antigen test of all vegetable, fruit, newspaper vendors will be conducted periodically,” ANI quoted Jalna’s superintendent of police V Deshmukh as saying.Also read | Delhi, Punjab, Chhattisgarh: List of state-wise curbs amid Covid-19The decision was implemented by the district collector Ravindra Binwade after a meeting with officials on Tuesday, news agency PTI reported citing an official. According to the report, schools will function normally for Classes 10 and 12, while permissions for social, political and religious gatherings have been withdrawn. The famous Shri Rajur Ganpati temple in Bhokardan tehsil has been closed too, as per the administration’s decision.Maharashtra, along with few other states, has been seeing a spike in the number of daily new Covid-19 cases reported since the past week. The central government on Tuesday said that while two new Covid-19 variants -- N440K and E484K -- have been detected in Maharashtra but also mentioned that the variants might not be behind the surge in cases.On February 22, authorities in the Amravati district implemented a week-long lockdown, ordering all shops, except those selling essential commodities, schools and colleges to be shut. On Tuesday, 926 new Covid-19 cases were reported in the district, in the highest single-day spike, according to a PTI report. Aurangabad district collector Shailesh Naval, on Tuesday, ordered a night curfew in the city from 11pm to 6am that would last until March 8, according to a report by ANI.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-maharashtra-s-jalna-orders-shutdown-till-march-31-101614152676568.html
24-02-2021||India||Rajasthan CM announces state’s first paperless budget. Here are some highlights||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot announced the state's first paperless budget on Wednesday. This the Congress-led government's third budget. The chief minister began the speech by noting the effect of the Covid-19 pandemic on the country's economy."The state budget 2021-22 will be paperless this time. And the legislators will be provided soft copies of the budget speech and other related documents in tablets instead of hard copies," PTI quoted a senior finance department official as saying.While the budget speech by the chief minister, who holds the finance portfolio, is still going on here are key announcements made till now:1. Gehlot said that the Rajasthan government will introduce the universal health care scheme worth ₹3,500 crore. He announced the opening of nursing colleges in 25 districts adding that eight already exist.2. The chief minister also said that the agriculture budget will be announced separately from next year.3. The chief minister also announced the increase in unemployment allowance by ₹1,000. Around 2 lakh youths will be benefited from the chief minister Youth Sambal Yojana, he said.4. Gehlot while presenting the state budget also announced the formation of the Rajiv Gandhi Youth Corps to achieve the target set by the state government. For this mission, 2500 Rajiv Gandhi young friends will be selected.5. The chief minister also announced the 'Ghar Ghar Aushadi Yojana' to encourage the use of herbs like tulsi and giloy in every household.Also Read | What led to Covid-19 rise? Centre deputes teams to 10 states for probe6. Considering the importance of tourism for the state, the chief minister announced various infrastructure programs for the development of key tourist spots in Udaipur, Jaipur, Ajmer and other districts of the state.7. Further Gehlot announced the development of a luxury Tourist Complex spread across 3,500 bigha. He said ₹10 crore has been allocated for the development of resorts, motels, folk art hotspots in the complex to highlight the culture of the state.8. The chief minister also announced the investment of ₹102 crore for housing 1,700 displaced Pakistanis at village Chowkha in Jodhpur.9. Special schemes were also announced for the development of Rajasthan film city and highlight the state as the destination for film production. The chief minister said ₹25 lakh will be provided as incentive support for the production of Rajasthani films. To encourage and boost local films GST exemptions will also be provided.Also Read | NSE says restoring systems after trading halted after technical glitch10. The chief minister announced the Rajasthan Government Health Scheme.11. Gehlot further announced the release of ₹1,600 crore of wages of government employees that were deferred earlier due to the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-cm-announces-state-s-first-paperless-budget-here-are-some-highlights-101614150530487.html
24-02-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi's 'spiteful, vile' politics based on lies: Smriti Irani||Slamming Congress leader Rahul Gandhi's statement on promising a fisheries ministry in the Centre, Union Minister for Textiles and Women and Child Development Smriti Irani on Wednesday said his 'spiteful, vile' politics is based on lies.Speaking to ANI, Irani said: "The fact that Rahul Gandhi sustains on lie was evident when he again promised the people in Kerala, a ministry for fisheries. The fact that he insults the people of Kerala by speaking a lie time and again is something that the citizens need to take note of. He was made available data with regard to the Ministry of Fisheries. What is astounding that this gentleman himself asks a question of the same ministry."Also Read | Rahul Gandhi reiterates claim about fisheries ministry, this time in KeralaThe Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) minister said Gandhi has established defeat for his party through his lies, further alleging that he disassociates himself from the truth and continuously propagates lies to insult the intelligence of citizens across the country."I think the spiteful, vile and vengeful politics of Rahul Gandhi, which insults not only the people and voters of Amethi, but which seeks to create a divide between north and south of India. It is to be condemned by every Indian citizen," she said."Before this, he made a statement from Assam with regards to the people in the state of Gujarat, and the result was such that the Congress was wiped out in the local body elections, as was visible in the election results from Gujarat yesterday. The question that begets the politics of Rahul Gandhi is for how long will he continue to lie to the people of our country, for how long will he divide the people of our country, for how long will he try to build hatred between communities," Irani further mentioned.Highlighting the second anniversary of Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi, the Union Minister further remarked that Gandhi refuses to acknowledge the fact that over 10 crore farmers have benefitted in this initiative and over ₹1 crore has gone directly into the accounts of the farmers, adding that his politics is based on lies.Days after wrongly claiming that there is no dedicated ministry to deal with the issues of fishermen, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday repeated his promise of forming a central ministry dedicated to fishermen of India.The comments of the Congress MP came at an interaction with the fishing community in Kollam's Thangassery."Just like our farmers farm the land, you farm the sea. Farmers have a Ministry in Delhi, you don't. No one speaks for you in Delhi. The first thing I would do is to have a ministry dedicated to the fishermen of India so that your issues can be defended and protected," said the Congress leader in Kollam. He made a similar gaffe in Puducherry earlier this month.Wednesday's repeat gaffe by Gandhi also came in for wide ridicule from several ministers and also on social media as memes and comments flooded various platforms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-s-spiteful-vile-politics-based-on-lies-smriti-irani-101614153887344.html
24-02-2021||India||India's Anjali Bhardwaj among 12 recipients of US anticorruption champion award||India’s Anjali Bhardwaj was among 12 anti-corruption activists from around the world named by US secretary of state Antony Blinken as the first recipients of the new International Anticorruption Champions Award.Bhardwaj is primarily known as a Right to Information (RTI) activist and is associated with the National Campaign for Peoples’ Right to Information. Along with Annie Raja and Sipa Sinha, she leads the Delhi Rozi Roti Adhikar Abhiyan, a city-based collective that works on food rights.In a statement announcing the recipients of the award, Blinken said that around the world corruption threatens security and stability, hinders economic growth, undermines democracy and human rights, destroys trust in public institutions, facilitates transnational crime, and siphons away public and private resources.“The Biden administration recognises that we will only be successful in combating these issues by working in concert with committed partners, including courageous individuals who champion anticorruption efforts and countries working to fulfil their commitments to international anticorruption standards,” he said.In line with this objective, Blinken announced the International Anticorruption Champions Award which recognises individuals “who have worked tirelessly, often in the face of adversity, to defend transparency, combat corruption, and ensure accountability in their own countries”.Besides Bhardwaj, the other recipients of the award are Ardian Dvorani of Albania, Diana Salazar of Ecuador, Sophia Pretrick of the Federated States of Micronesia, Juan Francisco Sandoval Alfaro of Guatemala, Ibrahima Kalil Gueye of Guinea, Dhuha A Mohammed of Iraq, Bolot Temirov of the Kyrgyz Republic, Mustafa Abdullah Sanalla of Libya, Victor Sotto of the Philippines, Francis Ben Kaifala of Sierra Leone, and Ruslan Ryaboshapka of Ukraine.“They inspire us and so many of their counterparts pursuing these ideals around the world,” Blinken said.“As President [Joe] Biden has emphasised, our commitment to truth, transparency, and accountability is a mission that we must live at home and exemplify abroad. I commend the dedication of these 12 brave individuals to these same ideals,” he added.Also Read: What led to Covid-19 rise? Centre deputes teams to 10 states for probeReferring to the anti-corruption efforts of the US, Blinken said the country was the first to criminalise foreign bribery and, in partnership with foreign counterparts, has recovered and returned more than $1 billion in stolen public assets in the past two years.“We use a range of tools to promote accountability for corrupt individuals, combat impunity globally, and engage in multilateral fora to fight corruption and strengthen citizen engagement,” Blinken said, adding that corruption will be defeated by implementing reforms consistent with international commitments and empowering citizens, journalists and civil society organisations to help “defeat this global threat to security and democracy”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-anjali-bhardwaj-among-12-recipients-of-us-anticorruption-champion-award-101614153683705.html
24-02-2021||India||Gujarat municipal polls: Failure of Congress, not emergence of AAP, says BJP||Riding high on the outcome of the Gujarat civic election, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is confident that it has decimated the opposition and proved the accusations of not responding well to the challenges brought on by the pandemic false. The party seemed unfazed by the emergence of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) as an opposition and said the AAP’s gains should worry the Congress more. Senior party leaders said the AAP’s win in 27 seats in the Surat Municipal Corporation cannot be read as the emergence of the party in the BJP stronghold, leave alone the entire state. “It is a wake-up call for the Congress. They have been decimated in these elections. As for the AAP, they only benefitted from the non-BJP votes,” said a party functionary. While the BJP improved its tally from 389 seats that it won in 2015 to 489 seats, the Congress was reduced to 45 seats from its previously held 174 seats across the municipal corporations of Ahmedabad, Jamnagar, Bhavnagar, Surat, Rajkot and Vadodara. Also Read | ‘Honoured to serve Gujarat’: Modi after civic polls sweepIn Surat, the BJP won 93 seats, the AAP opened its account with 27 seats and the Congress won none in a 120-member civic body.The Congress had won 36 seats in Surat during the 2015 elections.A second party leader said the emergence of AAP in Surat, the hometown of the state unit president Chandrakant Patil, also a Lok Sabha MP from Navsari, does not indicate a dip in support for the BJP. “The BJP’s hold in Surat continues; there is no dent in the party’s support base. The AAP has moved into the space vacated by the Congress. The leadership crisis in the Congress is forcing it out as the principal opposition,” the second leader said. However, there are concerns that the AAP could stoke issues that have been weak spots for the BJP, such as the Patidar movement. Surat was the epicentre of the Patidar reservation movement that sought to bring the community under the ambit of the Other Backward Classes (OBC) quota. “The BJP has learnt to turn anti-incumbency into pro-incumbency based on its administration, however there is always scope for the opposition to change the narrative based on conflict-ridden issues. For instance, in Punjab, the farm agitation has been hijacked by vested interests,” said the second functionary. On Tuesday, AAP spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj described the win as “breaching the citadel of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the BJP”.“People of Gujarat have voted for politics of work as they were fed up by the politics of BJP and Congress. The people of Gujarat wanted an alternative and AAP has emerged as the key alternative to the present parties. Now the upcoming assembly election will be only between Aam Aadmi Party and BJP,” said Arvind Kejriwal, the national convener of the AAP, in a press statement issued on Tuesday.Hari Desai, a political commentator based in Gujarat, reiterated that the victory of AAP in Surat does not pose a challenge to the BJP. “The Aam Aadmi Party does not have the apparatus or the organisational network on the ground to emerge as a threat to the BJP. I feel they tend to benefit the BJP instead of being an opponent,” he said.On the Congress’ performance, he said the party has failed to prop up its leadership and has been pulled down by infighting.Former Gujarat state Congress chief Arjun Modhwadia said, “The election results of six municipalities are disheartening for Congress workers in Gujarat. We accept the people’s mandate but after every dark night there is a dawn. We will work hard to get the confidence of urban voters.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-municipal-polls-failure-of-congress-not-emergence-of-aap-says-bjp-101614153849305.html
24-02-2021||India||Kerala withdraws cases against Sabarimala and citizenship law protesters||The Kerala government on Wednesday decided to withdraw cases related to Sabarimala and Citizenship (Amendment) Act protests which are not of criminal nature. Earlier, the state government was against withdrawing cases.While the Congress lauded the decision, the BJP said the temple issue should not be conflated with the citizenship law protests.“We welcome the move. We have been demanding it quite some time,” said opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala.“It is wrong to club the temple issue with the CAA. We want all cases to be withdrawn. Other than police atrocities no other violence took place during the stir,” said BJP state president K Surendran who is facing more than 200 cases. He was jailed for a month during the agitation.Recently the Nair Service Society, a socio-cultural body of upper caste Nair community, had written a letter to chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan asking him to withdraw cases against devotees who took part in hymn-chanting protests during the temple agitation in 2018.At the height of the agitation at least 50,000 cases were registered against devotees who protested the government decision to implement the Supreme Court verdict that allowed women of all ages to enter the hilltop temple.In 2018, the state had witnessed large-scale violence and five shutdowns after the Supreme Court ended a centuries-old ban on the entry of women of all ages at the Ayyappa temple. It was for the first time in the history of the state that over 50,000 people were booked in connection with Sabarimala protest.With assembly elections round the corner (April-May), the temple issue has again come to the centrestage.Last month, former Congress chief minister Oommen Chandy had written to CM Pinarayi Vijayan, asking him to withdraw the state government’s earlier affidavit that favoured the entry of women of all ages.In the letter, Chandy also said the government’s affidavit had created much confusion which ultimately led to the five-bench verdict in 2018.After protests in 2019, the Supreme Court had referred 60-odd review petitions questioning the verdict to a nine-member bench.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-withdraws-cases-against-sabarimala-and-citizenship-law-protesters-101614153666641.html
24-02-2021||India||Hyderabad pharmacy student who mislead police, dies by suicide||The 19-year-old pharmacy student, who purportedly misled the police in Hyderabad by allegedly falsely claiming abduction and gang-rape two weeks ago, died by suicide on Wednesday morning, the police said.The girl was found in an unconscious condition in her room at her relative’s residence, where she had been staying ever since Rachakonda police claimed her kidnap and rape allegations were a ‘hoax’.Police rushed to the spot and shifted her to the local government hospital, where she was declared brought dead. “Preliminary investigation revealed she had consumed a large number of sleeping pills,” the police said.The police have registered a case. Further details are awaited.It may be recalled that on the evening of February 10, the police received a complaint on the toll-free number 100, from the pharmacy student’s parents that some miscreants had abducted their daughter.The police claimed it tracked signals from her mobile phone and rescued her from bushes at a secluded place near, where she was lying in a semi-undressed and “traumatic” state.The girl was first taken to a private hospital and later shifted to the government hospital in Secunderabad, where she underwent medical examination. The police initially booked a case of abduction and rape under sections of Indian Penal Code.However, during the investigation of the case over the next two days, the police concluded that the student was misleading her parents as well as the police.“She was neither abducted nor raped. We found it was a false case, after a thorough investigation and gathering of technical evidence,” Rachakonda police commissioner Mahesh Bhagawat told reporters on February 13.Also Read: 5 killed in two separate road accidents in Andhra Pradesh, TelanganaThe police said it examined the video footage obtained from 100 different closed-circuit television cameras located in the area and interrogated auto drivers, locals and her college mates and found no connection between her statement and the evidence gathered.After corroborating all the evidence, the police claimed they questioned the girl and she confessed to have misled the police. “Apparently, she wanted to leave her house for her own reasons and hence enacted the whole drama,” the commissioner said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hyderabad-pharmacy-student-who-mislead-police-dies-by-suicide-101614152611402.html
24-02-2021||India||Court seeks police response on Shantanu Muluk's anticipatory bail plea||A court hearing on Wednesday sought response from the Delhi Police on the anticipatory bail application of Shantanu Muluk, who along with Disha Ravi is accused of sharing a "toolkit" on social media related to the farmers' protest.Additional Sessions Judge Dharmender Rana, who granted bail to Ravi on Wednesday, posted Muluk's bail application for arguments on Friday.Muluk had got transit bail from the Bombay High Court on February 16 for a period of 10 days.During the brief hearing held through video-conferencing on Wednesday, the court also noted that Muluk has been granted protection from arrest till February 26.The matter was adjourned after the public prosecutor said that the investigating officer of the case was not present today and “it would be better if the matter is heard in physical presence.” Muluk, along with Ravi and another co accused Nikita Jacob, was booked for alleged sedition and other charges.Ravi was arrested by a Cyber Cell team of the Delhi Police from Bengaluru and brought to Delhi.Muluk and Jacob are currently on transit bail, while Ravi was granted bail on Tuesday after nine-day custody. If convicted for sedition, the accused may get a maximum jail term for life.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/court-seeks-police-response-on-shantanu-muluk-s-anticipatory-bail-plea-101614147521237.html
24-02-2021||India||News updates from HT: Expert panel to decide on Sputnik V vaccine approval today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Sputnik V to get approval in India? Expert committee meet todayThe subject expert committee of the Central Drug Standards Control Organisation is scheduled to meet on Wednesday. Read MoreWhat led to Covid-19 rise? Centre deputes teams to 10 states for probeThe Centre has deputed high-level, multi-disciplinary teams to Maharashtra, Kerala, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Punjab, Karnakata, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal and J&K. Read MoreKerala government to withdraw cases registered during Sabarimala agitationThe Left Democratic Front-led government in Kerala has said it will withdraw the cases registered during the Sabarimala agitation. Read MoreTravellers from 5 states need negative Covid report to enter Delhi till March 15Travellers from five states, including Maharashtra, Kerala and Punjab, will have to show negative Covid-19 test report before entering Delhi. Read MoreAll new 2021 Maruti Swift launched at Rs.5.73 lakhMaruti Suzuki on Wednesday launched the all-new Swift 2021 in the Indian market. Read MorePic of Baghpat’s chaat vendor ‘Chacha’ is people’s latest meme obsessionA video of two chaat-sellers attacking each other in Uttar Pradesh's Baghpat went viral on social media. Read MoreJanhvi Kapoor shares handwritten note on Sridevi's third death anniversary: 'You are the best baby in the world'Actor Janhvi Kapoor has shared a handwritten note on the third death anniversary of her mother, the screen icon Sridevi. In her caption, she wrote simply, "Miss u." Read MoreWatch: Obama, Tyson, Serena & others wish Tiger Woods a speedy recoveryGolf great Tiger Woods has suffered serious injuries after being involved in a single-car rollover crash. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-expert-panel-to-decide-on-sputnik-v-vaccine-approval-today-and-all-the-latest-news-101614148829694.html
24-02-2021||India||Toolkit case: 'Justice has been done,' says father after Disha Ravi’s bail||Father of Disha Ravi on Wednesday said his daughter did not do anything wrong after a local court in Delhi granted bail to the climate activist in the toolkit case. The 22-year-old Ravi was released from Tihar jail in Delhi on Tuesday evening."Justice has been done. My daughter had done nothing wrong. We believe in our country's judiciary," news agency ANI quoted her father Ravi Annappa as saying. "We are not connected with anybody. We are only asking this basic question about the climate. I am an Indian, we have to respect the nation's rules and regulations," he added.In a major setback to the Delhi Police, the sessions court at Patiala House Court granted bail to Ravi on grounds that evidence presented before the court is not sufficient to establish a link between the toolkit and the Delhi violence. Evidence on record was not sufficient to keep a 22-year-old "young lady" with absolutely no criminal antecedents in custody, said the judge as he ruled the verdict."The offence of sedition cannot be invoked to minister to the wounded vanity of the governments," additional sessions judge Dharmender Rana also said. He further noted that citizens are "conscience keepers" of government in any democratic nation and they cannot be put behind bars simply because they choose to disagree with the state policies.In an 18-page order, Judge Rana made some hard-hitting observations while terming the evidence produced by the police as “scanty and sketchy".On February 13, Ravi was arrested from her Bengaluru residence by Delhi police. The police had claimed that Ravi created the toolkit which aimed to spread misinformation about India. The police had also alleged that the toolkit, first publicised by Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg on Twitter, also instigated the Republic Day violence during the farmers' tractor rally in Delhi. She was arrested under the sedition law.Following the court's verdict, her mother also said that it had reinforced her faith in the judicial system of the country. She also said that she is happy and relieved that her daughter is coming back home, as per the PTI report. "I am happy that she got bail. It has reinforced our faith in the system," Disha's mother Manjula had said in Bengaluru.Ravi used to volunteer for Fridays for Future (FFF), an organisation founded by Thunberg. She used to help with the organisation's event management work in Bengaluru.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/toolkit-case-justice-has-been-done-says-father-after-disha-ravi-s-bail-101614151690586.html
24-02-2021||India||Odisha: Six elephants die of haemorrhagic septicemia||There is an outbreak of haemorrhagic septicaemia caused by the bacteria Pasteurella multocida in Odisha’s Karlapat Wildlife Sanctuary, the union environment ministry has confirmed.The central investigation team of Project Elephant Division visited Karlapat Wildlife Sanctuary, Kalhandi south division, following seven deaths in the sanctuary.Investigation of samples of six dead elephants and a dead cow in the sanctuary, by Odisha veterinary college, has revealed the cause of death to be haemorrhagic septicaemia caused by the bacteria Pasteurella multocida. The samples have been sent to IVRI for confirmatory diagnosis.Also Read | Six elephants die of bacterial disease in Odisha, highest in any sanctuaryMeetings were also held with the district collector and district veterinary team on the measures to be taken to prevent further spread of the disease. Vaccination of cattle inside the sanctuary and in the fringe villages has also been done.While four female elephants were found dead in the Karalapat Wildlife Sanctuary of Kalahandi between February 1 and 12, two more died by February 14 taking the death toll to six.The disease affects mainly water buffaloes, cattle, and bison in tropical areas of southeast Asia where the population of water buffaloes is high. Acute infection can persist up to three days and less often 5 days. The disease and is characterised by high fever ranging 104°–106°F, restlessness and reluctance to move, hypersalivation and nasal discharge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-six-elephants-die-of-haemorrhagic-septicemia-101614150348297.html
24-02-2021||India||J&K L-G asks visiting tourists to be UT’s goodwill ambassadors||Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha has asked tourists to the Union Territory to become its goodwill ambassadors. Sinha made the request while visiting Dal Lake on Tuesday evening where he interacted with many tourists from different parts of the country.Asking them about their experiences during their stay here, Sinha said, “Be goodwill ambassadors of Jammu & Kashmir and carry the message to your respective areas that J&K is an ideal and safe tourist destination.”He also assured the tourists a safe and pleasant visit and added that the tourism department, the local community, and other stakeholders were collectively making the environment tourist-friendly.Also Read | Anganwadi centres reopen after 11 months in J-K’s Rajouri“From eco-tourism to winter sports, from pilgrimage to adventure tourism, J&K offers a host of attractions to tourists to experience the scenic beauty, warm hospitality, rich culture and heritage of the Union Territory,” Sinha said.The government also opened Sonmarg, which falls in Ganderbal district, for tourists.Kashmir’s tourism director, G N Itoo, along with district development commissioner (DDC) Budgam, Shahbaz Ahmed Mirza, visited tourist resort Doodhpathri, to review the preparedness for upcoming tourist season.He also convened a meeting to review the status of implementation of Draft Master Plan for beautification and facelift of beautiful tourist resort.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jklg-asks-visiting-tourists-to-be-ut-s-goodwill-ambassadors-101614149445977.html
24-02-2021||India||What led to Covid-19 rise? Centre deputes teams to 10 states for probe||The Centre has deputed high-level, multi-disciplinary teams to Maharashtra, Kerala, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Punjab, Karnakata, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal and J&K to find out what led to the recent spike in the number of Covid-19 cases. These teams will work with the state/UT administration and ascertain the reasons for the recent surge in the number of cases, apart from coordinating with the authorities for requisite measures to break the chain of transmission, news agency ANI reported.Though India's active Covid-19 cases continue to remain below 1.50 lakh, several states, starting with Maharashtra, reported a sudden surge since the beginning of this month. According to the Union health ministry's data, 12 states, including Maharashtra, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Punjab, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, West Bengal, Telangana, Delhi and Haryana, have reported more than 100 average daily new cases. Among them, Kerala and Maharashtra both report more than 4,000 average daily new cases in the past one week.Mutations of Sars-Cov-2 found in Maharashtra, Kerala samples: OfficialsOn Tuesday, Maharashtra reported the highest daily infections with 6,218 Covid-19 infections, followed by Kerala (4,034), Tamil Nadu (442), Punjab (414), Karnataka (383) and Gujarat (348).Chhattisgarh on Tuesday reported 274 new infections while Madhya Pradesh reported a single-day tally of 248.West Bengal registered 189 new cases on Tuesday and Jammu and Kashmir logged 94 fresh cases.While an overall laxity in maintaining Covid-19 appropriate behaviour followed by a fall in the cases at the beginning of the year is being blamed for the surge in cases, the ministry is now looking to narrow down on specific reason, if any, behind the surge.The presence of mutant virus strain, detected in Maharashtra, Kerala and Telangana — has been dismissed as a contributing factor to the sudden spike. No link between the mutant strains and the sudden spike has been scientifically established as some of the strains were present in India since last year."Based on the information and as analyzed and understood by a very eminent scientific advisory group of Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium (INSACOG), we would like to underline the fact that we do not see attribution of mutant strains to the upsurge of the infection being seen in some districts. But this is a work in progress. We will continue to watch the situation with full responsibility," NITI Aayog Member (Health) V K Paul said on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-led-to-covid-19-rise-centre-deputes-teams-to-10-states-for-probe-101614148850813.html
24-02-2021||India||Kerala to withdraw cases filed during Sabarimala agitation, anti-CAA protests||The Left Democratic Front-led government in Kerala has said it will withdraw all cases, except criminal ones, registered during the Sabarimala agitation and protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA), a move which the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) said was an election stunt in the state which is scheduled to hold assembly polls later this year.More than 50,000 people were booked in connection with the agitation. Kerala had witnessed large-scale violence and five shutdowns in 2018 after the Supreme Court verdict that allowed women of all ages to the temple annulling an age-old bar on women of reproductive age.Also read | Ahead of assembly polls, Sabarimala issue back on radar in KeralaOpposition United Democratic Front (UDF) had last week had demanded the withdrawal of cases slapped on those who protested over the issue. Senior Congress leader Ramesh Chennithala had alleged on February 15 that the LDF government has registered cases against thousands of people who participated in these protests, including Ayyappa devotees who protested against a Supreme Court order, permitting entry of women in all age groups in Sabarimala temple, have been arrested.Also read | Adityanath raises ‘love jihad’ and Sabarimala issues to hit out at Kerala govtChennithala had slammed the LDF for adopting a "revengeful" approach towards the people over the issue and said if voted to power, UDF would withdraw the cases registered against these protesters. The statement by the senior Congress leader on the Sabarimala issue had come a day after the Nair Service Society, an outfit of the forward Nair community, demanded that the state government withdraw cases against Ayyappa devotees who took part in the 'Namajapa' procession, demanding protection of the customs of Sabarimala temple.Also read | Will bring law on Sabarimala if voted into power, says UDFNSS general secretary G Sukumaran Nair, in a statement, had urged the government to show the moral responsibility of withdrawing the cases. He pointed out that the government has unconditionally withdrawn several cases related to other issues.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-to-withdraw-cases-filed-during-sabarimala-agitation-anti-caa-protests-101614148296926.html
24-02-2021||India||Five new job surveys to help gather data for national employment policy||Five new job surveys are being rolled out by the labour office to capture unaccounted segments or blind spots in the country’s labour markets. They will generate high-frequency, dependable data necessary for a planned national employment policy, officials have said.An expert committee appointed by the government has finalised the design of these all-India surveys, one each on domestic workers, migrant workers, professionals and the transport sector, apart from an “all-India Quarterly Establishment-based Employment Survey”.The surveys will begin in April and will take about six months to complete. They will offer a segmented view of the jobs’ economy, focusing on data that have largely been missing, rendering much of the country’s employment-unemployment data unreliable.Also Read | PM Modi pushes PPP model for ‘aatmanirbhar’ health sectorAccording to the International Labour Organization’s manual for nations, a national employment policy is a “comprehensive plan for achieving a country’s employment goals”. Countries need them because “employment challenges are getting more and more complex”, it states.India needs reliable employment data for decision-making because economic growth has not automatically led to more formal, decent jobs. Informal employment, which does not offer social and legal protections, is still widespread and wage inequality is rising.Official statisticians depend on the periodic labour force survey (PLFS), the latest available data on employment-unemployment, which covered the period July 2017-June 2018 and was released in June 2019. As a survey, it is an inadequate gauge of the sectors the new jobs surveys aim to cover.The new surveys will look at the large, lower tier of jobs in a fast-changing labour market, which has seen new categories emerge, such as gig workers. Lack of information from these unorganised employment sectors, about which there are little data and insights, have held back the creation of a proposed national employment policy.The key aim of the policy, a first, is to formalise large informal segments of the jobs economy. It will include so-called gig workers.A majority of the country’s workers, almost 90%, are employed in the informal unorganised sector.According to Rajesh Raj Natarajan, a labour economist of Sikkim University, moving to formal employment can push up individual incomes by 63.9%. His research was based on data from the India Human Development Survey of 2004–2005 and 2011–2012.“The surveys will give us industry-specific data. It will go on to be very helpful in formulating a national employment policy. We are currently engaged in field training of staff,” said DS Negi, director-general of the labour bureau.India’s large pool of migrant workers is probably the most crucial segment. As factories were shut during the pandemic-induced lockdown last year, thousands of migrant workers fled urban centres, facing hunger and distress.In September, the government told Parliament that it had no data on migrant workers. “This was the main reason why help could not reach them,” said Ravi Ratnoo of the staffing firm Ajeevan. The survey on migrants will collect information on migration patterns, job profiles, living and work conditions.A novel cohort-based migration metric, a statistical tool developed by former chief economic adviser Arvind Subramanian, revealed an annual “inter-state migrant population of about 60 million and an inter-district migration as high as 80 million” between 2001 and 2011.The survey on professionals will capture self-employed professionals and employees hired by them. For instance, a doctor with a private practice and staff employed by him at his clinic.The transport sector survey will take into account gig workers employed with ride-hailing apps for the time. The quarterly establishment survey will track changes in general employment. The one on domestic workers will give the first estimate of domestic household workers, most of whom are women. They are currently out of any social security shield.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/five-new-job-surveys-to-help-gather-data-for-national-employment-policy-101614148005784.html
24-02-2021||India||Code of ethics: What OTT platforms, such as Netflix and Hotstar, may have to follow||The government is considering a code of ethics for over-the-top (OTT) platforms such as Netflix and digital media companies. The code is likely to mandate intermediaries and online curated content companies to exercise “due caution and discretion” while airing content that may impact India’s sovereignty and integrity, threaten or jeopardise the state’s security and be detrimental to the country’s foreign relations.HT on Wednesday reported social media companies and streaming service providers will be brought under a three-tier regulatory framework, according to proposed new rules. The rules will cover companies such as Facebook and OTT platforms. In a document running into 30 pages, reviewed by HT, the government has laid down the rules and the framework for regulating both sets of companies, which remain largely unregulated, although some provisions of the Information Technology Act apply to them. In the document, titled Information Technology (Guidelines for Intermediaries and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021, the government cites powers provided to it under section 87 of the Information Technology Act, 2000. This section allows the government to make rules to carry out the provisions of the law by notification in the Official Gazette and in the Electronic Gazette.Also Read | Spell out regulatory regime, SC tells govt on OTT normsThe government is also deliberating extending existing legislation such as the Cable Table Television Networks Regulation Act, Press Council Act, and other relevant laws to govern online content. The laws have so far only been applicable to traditional media such as newspapers and television.Critics have expressed concerns over the regulations saying they may lead to censorship.The code is also expected to ask OTT platforms to improve the accessibility of content to the persons with disabilities. It is likely to mandate content classification for online curated content platforms, which so far has not been compulsory, including a universal rating (U), U/A seven plus, U/A thirteen plus, U/A sixteen plus and Adult, for people over 18. The officials said the classifications will have to be prominently displayed.The OTT platforms are also expected to enable access control mechanisms, including parental locks, for content for those over 13. The platforms may also need to have a reliable age mechanism regulation.The content also has to be classified according to context, theme, tone and impact, and target audience. The most challenging themes, which the government has considered, include drug misuse, violence, paedophilia, sex, racial or communal hatred.The platforms are also expected to take into account the potentially offensive impact of a film on matters of caste, race, gender, religion, disability, or sexuality. The ratings will also depend on how sensitively they portray the content. The glamorous portrayal of drug use, violence, alcohol, or tobacco is also likely to be judged more harshly. Nudity will not allowed to be portrayed for classification under U/A sixteen. There will also be fear, threat, and horror classification for younger audiences.The three-tier self-regulation system will be put in place to ensure compliance with the code. TV regulation also has a similar three-tier system, but it is not formally defined.The first tier, the self-regulating system, will ask the platforms to establish a grievance redressal mechanism. The details of the grievance redressal officer have to be prominently displayed.The second tier or the self-regulatory body will be headed by a retired judge of the Supreme Court or High Court. An appeal may be referred to this body if a person believes her complaint has not been appropriately addressed.The third tier, or the oversight mechanism by the government, will develop an inter-ministerial committee to ensure adherence to the code. The committee will be the apex of the regulatory framework and have representatives from the ministries of information technology, information and broadcasting, home, law, external affairs, defence, and women and child development.The committee can recommend the blocking of content in contravention of the Code. It can also take suo motu cognisance of an issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-mulls-code-of-ethics-what-ott-platforms-may-have-to-follow-101614147645811.html
24-02-2021||India||UPSC exam: SC says no extra chance for those who exhausted last attempt in 2020||The Supreme Court on Wednesday dismissed a bunch of petitions filed by civil service aspirants seeking an extra attempt to sit for the Civil Service (Preliminary) examination to be held this year. The petitioners, some of whom were frontline workers during Covid-19, had exhausted their last attempt at the examination held last year amid the pandemic and moved the top court to spare them an extra chance.A bench of Justices AM Khanwilkar, Indu Malhotra and Ajay Rastogi announced that they have dismissed the petitions. A copy of the judgment will be uploaded on Supreme Court website later in the day. The bench reserved its order on February 9 after hearing the petitioners, the Centre and the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC). The petitioners, numbering over 100, were barred by age or number of attempts and were ineligible to appear in the preliminary exam to be conducted this year. Although the Centre had initially opposed the petitions, towards the end of the proceedings, it decided to create a “one time” exception for those who lost out on another attempt at the civil services having exhausted their quota of attempts. Also Read | SC to hear plea seeking CBI probe in Palghar mob-lynching caseIn the general category, candidates get six attempts till the age of 32 years, nine attempts till the age of 35 years if they are in OBC category, and unlimited attempts till 37 years of age if they belong to SC/ST category. The court asked the Centre to extend a similar concession to age-barred candidates as well but the Centre refused to accede to that demand. The petitioners claimed that due to their busy work schedule during Covid-19, they could not prepare for the examination. The Centre informed the court that nearly 34,000 last attempt candidates had applied for the preliminary examination 2020. Once such a relaxation is granted, these candidates will be eligible to seek similar relief and it will unnecessarily block chances of the candidates appearing for the preliminary examination this year. “This will create an endless cycle…What should be the syllabus or age or number of attempts is a matter of policy. To grant any relaxation in this regard is left to the government and any interference by the court can happen only if the decision (of the Government) is arbitrary or capricious.” The preliminary examination was conducted on October 4 last year. The court, on February 9 this year, said that it was open for the petitioners to take the Centre’s offer as it would then be difficult for the court to discriminate between the age-barred and attempt-barred candidates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-dismisses-petitions-seeking-extra-chance-for-last-attempt-upsc-candidates-101614146625922.html
24-02-2021||India||₹5,000 crore annual loss to Western Railway due to Covid-19 crisis: Official||Indore, Feb 24 (PTI) The Western Railway is facing an annual revenue loss of about ₹5,000 crore due to Covid-19 crisis which affected services and led to a drop in the number of train travellers, a senior official has said.Many people are still reluctant to travel by train due to fear of the coronavirus, Western Railway's General Manager Alok Kansal told reporters here on Tuesday."We are incurring an annual revenue loss of ₹5,000 crore in coaching trains (passenger trains) segment due to the Covid-19 crisis," he said.Among the trains being currently operated by the WR, some are running with only 10 per cent occupancy, he said.Kansal said before the outbreak of Covid-19, the Western Railway used to run about 300 passenger trains. But, the government stopped passenger trains across the country in March last year to prevent the spread of Covid-19.Also read| Air cargo remains single bright spot for aviation sector in 2021He said the operation of passenger trains is now coming back on track and this is expected to improve the Western Railway's revenue."During the last 11 months, the Western Railway has gradually restarted 145 out of its 300 passenger trains... about 50 per cent of our passenger trains have been resumed," he said.In the next seven days, the WR is going to restart six more passenger trains in Madhya Pradesh, he said.Kansal clarified that the Western Railway is currently running its passenger trains as special trains in view of the Covid-19 guidelines, and only passengers having reserved tickets are allowed to travel.During the Covid-19 lockdown last year, the WR ran 1,234 Shramik Special trains from May 1 to 31 to ferry about 19 lakh people to their destinations in different states, he added.Kansal was in MP for an inspection of the Indore- Dewas-Ujjain-Ratlam section of the Railways.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rs-5-000-crore-annual-loss-to-western-railway-due-to-covid-19-crisis-official-101614144794293.html
24-02-2021||India||Sputnik V to get approval in India? Expert committee meet today||The subject expert committee of the Central Drug Standards Control Organisation is scheduled to meet on Wednesday to deliberate on the application of Dr Reddy's Laboratories, seeking emergency use approval for the Russia-made Sputnik V vaccine against Covid-19. If the expert committee gives its nod, the application then will be forwarded to the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) for final approval. If DCGI gives its approval, then Sputnik V will be the third vaccine in India to get approval for emergency use approval.Sputnik V may become 3rd Covid vaccine approved in India. All you need to knowIn other possibilities, the subject expert committee may seek some additional data from Dr Reddy's if needed.Sputnik V, the two-dose vaccine, was developed by Russia's Gamaleya National Research Institute of Epidemiology and Microbiology in August. In September, the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) signed a pact with Dr Reddy's for local trial and distribution of the vaccine, if it gets a licence.Dr Reddy's conducted phase two trial on 100 subjects in India and said the vaccine candidate was found safe. Now, it is conducting a phase 2 and 3 bridging study. It also doesn't have its phase 3 trial data yet.The efficacy of this vaccine is said to be over 91 per cent, which is higher than the Covishield. Covaxin's efficacy data will be published in two weeks, Bharat Biotech has said.Dr Reddy's applied for the emergency-use authorisation last Friday. Since its phase 3 trial data is awaited, it will have to submit safety data from the phase 2 trial conducted in India and the interim data of the phase 3 trial. Russian authorities claimed that the vaccine has been registered in around 30 countries.If Sputnik gets approval, it will also be the first foreign vaccine to be approved in India. Before Sputnik, Pfizer had applied for emergency use authorisation but it conducted no trial in India and the storage temperature requirement of the vaccine candidate made it difficult to use in India. Sputnik V, on the other hand, can be stored at normal refrigerator temperature.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-vaccine-expert-committee-meet-today-on-sputnik-v-emergency-approval-101614145906935.html
24-02-2021||India||Aspirants who exhausted last UPSC prelims attempt in 2020 can’t appear again: Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Tuesday dismissed a petition filed by those who exhausted their final attempt in October 2020, seeking an extra chance to appear for Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) preliminary examinations.The bench headed by Justice AM Khanwilkar had reserved its verdict on February 9 on a plea, by over 100 petitioners, that had sought one more chance in the UPSC's civil services exam for those aspirants who could not appear in their last attempt in October 2020 due to the coronavirus pandemic. They were barred by age or number of attempts and were ineligible to appear in the preliminary exam to be conducted this year. The Centre had told the top that it was against granting one-time relaxation on age limit to UPSC civil service aspirants, including those who had exhausted their last attempt in the 2020 exam amid the Covid-19 pandemic and would get one more chance this year provided they are not age barred, as it would be discriminatory to other candidates. It informed the court that the candidates who gave their last attempt examination in October 2020 would get one more chance this year provided they are not age barred.“This is not the exam where you prepare at the last minute. People prepare for years together,” additional solicitor general S V Raju, representing the Centre, had told the bench, adding, “My first offer remains”.The Centre was initially not willing to concede to giving an extra chance but it was later done at the suggestion of the bench. It had argued that nearly 34,000 last attempt candidates had applied for the preliminary examination 2020 and if such relaxation is granted once, these candidates will be eligible to seek similar relief and it will unnecessarily block chances of the aspirants appearing for the preliminary examination this year.Candidates of the general category get six attempts till the age of 32 years, while those in the OBC category get nine attempts till the age of 35 years, and unlimited attempts till 37 years of age if they belong to SC/ST category.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-dismisses-plea-for-extra-attempt-to-appear-for-upsc-exam-by-those-who-exhausted-final-chance-in-2020-101614145320603.html
24-02-2021||India||Rift in BJP-IPFT pact in Tripura ahead of tribal areas district council polls||Differences have emerged between Tripura's ruling Bharatiya Janata Party and its alliance partner, the Indigenous People's Front of Tripura (IPFT), ahead of the Tripura Tribal Areas Autonomous District Council (TTAADC) polls.The rift came to light with the IPFT's declaration to contest the polls in alliance with the state's royal scion, Pradyot Kishore's social organization The Indigenous Progressive Regional Alliance (TIPRA) last week.Both of them formed the alliance through signing of a memorandum of understanding (MoU) to bring an end to “socio-economic deprivation” of the indigenous communities.Pradyot Kishore said if the alliance wins the polls, he would pass a resolution in the autonomous district council demanding a “Greater Tipraland”.Greater Tipraland demand seeks to include the indigenous people living in and outside the TTAADC areas of Tripura.Post the event, the IPFT held meetings with the BJP centering around the autonomous district council polls, but no decision has been announced so far.BJP Lok Sabha MP Rebati Tripura earlier said the IPFT were given three days to think over their alliance with TIPRA. The ultimatum ended on Tuesday. The IPFT, however, said they were not given a deadline to decide on the alliance."We were supposed to join another meeting with the BJP on Tuesday, but we postponed it as we are busy in preparing for a mass gathering at Khumulwng, TTAADC headquarters on Wednesday. The meeting will be held in the next two or three days. But we were never given any ultimatum to decide on our alliance with TIPRA," said IPFT assistant general secretary Mangal Debbarma.The IPFT bagged eight seats in the 60-seated state Assembly to form the government in alliance with the BJP in 2018. The IPFT has two ministers in the chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb's nine-member cabinet. The BJP has 44 seats.The state government, earlier in January this year, informed the high court, in an affidavit that it would conduct the TTAADC polls before May 17.Also Read: Road made with non-recyclable plastic waste inaugurated in TripuraThe TTAADC has 30 seats of which 28 are elected and two are nominated. It covers nearly 68% of Tripura.Rift between the BJP and IPFT came to light earlier with a series of clashes over nominations for Block Advisory Committee (BAC) chairmen, ADC village committee executives and others.The BJP and the IPFT contested the 2019 Lok Sabha polls separately despite being in alliance in the state. The BJP won the state's two Lok Sabha seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rift-in-bjp-ipft-pact-in-tripura-ahead-of-tribal-areas-district-council-polls-101614145864648.html
24-02-2021||India||Chhattisgarh orders Covid screening and contact tracing of all visitors||Amid a rise in Covid-19 cases, Chhattisgarh government has asked all the commissioners and district collectors to arrange for screening and contact tracing of all visitors to the state, officials said on Tuesday.“As per the scheduled SOP of all the passengers including the passengers arriving at Raipur and Jagdalpur (Bastar) airport from Mumbai and Delhi, strict adherence to instructions regarding COVID screening and contact tracing should be ensured,” said a press release issued by the public relations department.The General Administration Department (GAD) has asked for special focus on passengers arriving by road and rail, especially from Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and Delhi, at railway and bus stations.All the commissioners and district collectors have been directed to ensure strict adherence to these instructions.On Monday, Chhattisgarh's Covid-19 count rose to 311,159 with the addition of 274 cases, while the death toll increased by six to reach 3,806.Also Read:Chhattisgarh woman Maoist surrendered last week, dies by suicide, probe soughtThe number of recoveries has increased to 304,355 after 32 people were discharged from hospitals and 169 others completed home isolation, leaving the state with 2,998 active cases.In view of the increasing number of Covid-19 cases in the state, chief minister Bhupesh Baghel has appealed to the people to follow the guidelines such as social distancing and wearing masks, issued earlier for prevention of Covid-19 infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-orders-covid-screening-and-contact-tracing-of-all-visitors-101614142076520.html
24-02-2021||India||98 CPI members join BJP ahead of Assembly polls in Kerala||In a major boost to Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Kerala ahead of Assembly polls, as many as 98 members of Left parties joined the local unit of BJP in the presence of Union Minister Pralhad Joshi in Thiruvananthapuram on Tuesday.Speaking to ANI, BJP leader VV Rajesh confirmed the news and said the new members who joined the party offered to convert the local Communist Party of India (Marxist) local office to the BJP office."Today, 98 CPI(M) party members joined BJP under the leadership of Mukul Prabhakaran who was former Gram Panchayat president and CPI(M) area Committee member. Union Minister Pralhad Joshi welcomed them," he said."The newly joined CPI(M) workers offered their party office to BJP. And we are going to convert the CPI(M) local office to BJP office in the coming days," the BJP leader added.Also read| SSB to use image analysis at Nepal, Bhutan borders to monitor changes, troopsRajesh informed that Union Home Minister Amit Shah will attend the concluding ceremony of the party's Vijay Yathra on March 4."Many CPI(M) and Congress workers are in contact with us and want to join BJP and work for the party. There is a possibility of thousands of people will be joining BJP in the coming days," the BJP leader added.Recently, Former Delhi Metro chief E Sreedharan joined BJP ahead of Assembly polls in Kerala.Kerala is likely to face Assembly elections in April-May this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/98-cpi-members-join-bjp-ahead-of-assembly-polls-in-kerala-101614140205421.html
24-02-2021||India||States told to expedite Covid vaccination drive: What prompted govt's action||The Centre on Tuesday asked the states to expedite the Covid-19 vaccination drive and said it has dispatched teams to places where the cases of the disease are rising. Here is what prompted the moves:• The moves come as alarm grows over what looks like the beginning of India’s second wave of infections, underscoring the need to scale up the vaccination process.• Data shows that the seven-day average of new cases across India dropped to its lowest on February 11, when it touched 10,988, but it has shown a sustained increase of 18% since then to reach 12,971 on Monday.• The increase has been fuelled in particular by Maharashtra, Punjab and Madhya Pradesh, where cases have grown by 127%, 55% and 54% respectively.• The health ministry wrote to these states and two more, asking them to speed up vaccinations.Also Read | Covid vaccination: People over 60 likely to be allowed to self-register• Experts say it is now a race against time for India to begin a wave of vaccinations that will beat that of infections.• India may need to significantly review its approach, relaxing curbs to allow anyone who wants a dose to take it, let employers purchase in bulk to give to their staff, and allow more private involvement, including open market sales.• Over the last week, India has administered roughly 450,000 doses every day, roughly 52% of the target for each day based on the number of sessions held.• For each session, 100 people are expected to get shots.• On average, 8,630 sessions were held daily last week.• Officials have said that they expect to accelerate the drive to deliver 5 million doses a day.• But, according to the government’s protocol, only those above 50 or 60 will be the first to get doses to come next month when the first of the general public will be covered.• India began its vaccination campaign on January 16 at a time when the epidemic was receding in the country. This gave the country a unique headway to build up an immune capital and potentially avoid a second wave, which in other countries has wreaked havoc.• In the UK, for instance, the second wave began in early December and the country rolled out its vaccination programme around the same time.• But the campaign was not fast enough to get ahead of the outbreak, and the country went on to experience its most devastating wave, which peaked three weeks later.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-tells-states-to-expedite-covid-vaccination-drive-what-prompted-the-action-101614141825184.html
24-02-2021||India||IMA's remark 'uncalled for': Patanjali backs Harsh Vardhan in Coronil row||As the Indian Medical Association has slammed Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan for apparently "endorsing" Patanjali's Divya Coronil tablets for the treatment of Covid-19, Patanjali Research Foundation Trust on Wednesday said IMA's remarks were uncalled for. The health minister was present at the press meet where Patanjali founder Baba Ramdev claimed that Coronil is part of Covid-19 treatment. Later, he claimed that the medicine has received certification from the World Health Organization, which the WHO dismissed."Our honourable health minister never undermined modern medicine. Rather his presence in the event showed his sincere efforts as a health minister to provide acceptability to other forms of medicinal systems," Patanjali said on Wednesday.Reiterating that Coronil has been awarded the CoPP (Certificate of Pharmaceutical Product) licence, Patanjali claimed that the certificate is compliant with WHO - Good Manufacturing Practices, and has been issued to Coronil by the Drug Controller General of India, as per the defined quality parameters."We have shared all our research data with the Ministry of Ayush, Government of India. The ministry has approved and categorically agreed for Coronil as medicine for Covid-19 management," Patanjali said."Coronil is an evidence-based medicine with integration of scientifically validated research evidences under pre-clinical and clinical expertise. The composition of this medicine has been disclosed to public at large, and had been thoroughly reviewed and scrutinised by the competent licensing authorities," it said adding that IMA is wrong in terming Coronil a secret medicine.After WHO South-East Asia clarified that it has not reviewed or certified the effectiveness of any traditional medicine for the treatment of Covid-19, Patanjali explained that the certificate was from the Ayush section of the Central drugs Standard Control Organisation, which was compliant with WHO certification scheme. It also said that WHO does not approve or disapprove any drug.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/imas-remark-uncalled-for-patanjali-backs-harsh-vardhan-in-coronil-row-101614141666593.html
24-02-2021||India||ECI to hold meeting to finalise upcoming Assembly elections of 5 states tomorrow||The Election Commission of India (ECI) is scheduled to hold a meeting tomorrow to finalise the upcoming Assembly elections of five states, official sources of the ECI confirmed.On Friday, Deputy Election Commissioner Sudip Jain, who is also the in-charge, will be travelling to Kolkata to take note of the preparedness and updates. During his visit, Jain will hold a series of meetings with district magistrates and police superintendents.The ECI is a statement had informed that 12 companies of the Central Police Forces (CPF) will be sent to West Bengal, as is routinely sent in advance to poll stations for area domination to all the States or Union Territories where Lok Sabha and Vidhan Sabha elections are to take place and not specifically to West Bengal.On 12 companies of central force reaching the state of West Bengal ECI in a press release stated that the Central Police Forces (CPF) are routinely sent in advance to poll stations for area domination to all the States or Union Territories where Lok Sabha and Vidhan Sabha elections are to take place and not specifically to West Bengal.Also read| AAP springs a surprise, Kejriwal thanks votersThe numbers of polling booths are likely to increase owing to the current pandemic situation.The terms of the legislative assemblies of five poll-bound states -- West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Assam, Kerala, and Puducherry are will come to an end either in May or in June this year.Elections for the Legislative Assembly of West Bengal that comprises 294 seats are set to be held this year as the current tenure ends on May 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eci-to-hold-meeting-to-finalise-upcoming-assembly-elections-of-5-states-tomorrow-101614135723695.html
24-02-2021||India||India records 13,742 fresh Covid-19 infections, daily toll again crosses 100||In the last 24 hours, India recorded 13,742 new Covid-19 cases, slightly higher than the 24-hour number reported on Tuesday. On Tuesday, India reported a total of 10,584 infections and 13,255 recoveries, bringing the active case mark below 1.5 lakh. On Wednesday, the active case mark was maintained at 1,46,907 as the number of recoveries went up to 14,037.The daily toll on Wednesday shot up to 104 after only 78 new Covid-19 fatalities were reported on Tuesday.Since the beginning of February, India is witnessing a resurgence of Covid-19 cases. Though the fresh wave was initially concentrated in Kerala and Maharashtra, the union health ministry has identified several other states which are reporting a higher number of cases.The Centre has also dismissed any direct relation between the recent surge with mutant virus strains.“Also, the N440K and E484Q variants of SARS-CoV-2 have been detected in Maharashtra, Kerala and Telangana. Also, three other mutated strains -- one each from the UK, South Africa and Brazil are already present in the country. But there is no reason for us to believe presently, on the basis of scientific information, that they are responsible for the upsurge of the outbreak in some districts of Maharashtra and Kerala,” NITI Aayog Member (Health) V K Paul said.Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab, Jammu and Kashmir, Chhattisgarh — states reporting a spurt in daily infections — have been asked to expedite the vaccination of healthcare and frontline workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-13-742-fresh-covid-19-infections-daily-toll-again-crosses-100-101614140675486.html
24-02-2021||India||SSB to use image analysis at Nepal, Bhutan borders to monitor changes, troops||The Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB), which guards India’s frontiers with Nepal and Bhutan, plans to use space and map-based technologies Geospatial Intelligence (GEOINT) and Geographical Information System (GIS) to assess any physical changes at the borders, presence of troops, or weaponry as well as border crimes, people familiar with the matter said.The move comes months after Nepal amended its constitution in June last year to redraw its political map laying claim over the strategically key areas of Lipulekh, Kalapani, and Limpiyadhura in Uttarakhand. India and China this month began disengagement of troops that have been involved in a standoff for eight months in Ladakh.Also Read | Closely following reports of India, China troop disengagement: USIndian troops earlier in 2017 crossed over to Doklam, a disputed territory between Bhutan and China, to prevent the Chinese People’s Liberation Army from building a road in the area.The people cited above said the SSB has access to satellite-based GEOINT, which involves collecting information from analysis of images and data associated with a particular location. It uses imagery to survey and assess human activity and physical geography anywhere on earth.IMINT (image intelligence), which is a part of GEOINT, can provide evidence of an operation, a force’s location, the size, nature, and location of command centres. It can over time provide an indication of increases or decreases in operations or movement. “It can help in monitoring activity over a period of time, such as construction, fortification, and changes in deployment,” said an internal document of SSB, reviewed by HT.“The imagery and GIS data can help us do better profiling of the border. We would know if a new village has come up near the border at the Indo-Bhutan border; if China has moved any troops and to see if any of our border pillars are missing or displaced,” said an officer, requesting anonymity.The SSB is also in the process of implementing the Counter Insurgency Operation Planning System and Border Operation Planning System software in all its field units. “The two software are being implemented primarily to analyse the data of arrests, seizures made at the border so that we understand the patterns and have better decision making,” the officer said.The SSB has 700 border outposts along the 2,450-km long borders with Nepal and Bhutan from Uttarakhand to Arunachal Pradesh. It is the primary force for checking any illegal activity, trans-border crimes, smuggling, and unauthorised entry into India.Tarun Wig, the co-founder of Innefu, a data analytics and cyber-security company, said GIS can provide a unified view of the entire theatre including terrain details, Intelligence inputs on an area, current activities, key points of concern. “It can help the organisation plan better, predict vulnerable areas, optimise resources and get a complete assessment at a click of a button.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ssb-to-use-image-analysis-at-nepal-bhutan-borders-to-monitor-changes-troops-101614140685193.html
24-02-2021||India||Who is Kiran Ahuja, Biden's choice for the US Office of Personnel Management?||The Biden administration has nominated yet another Indian-American to head a US federal office. This time, US President Joe Biden has nominated Kiran Ahuja for the task to head the US Department of Personnel Management(OPM).The United States Office of Personnel Management is a federal agency that manages US civilian services.Who is Kiran Ahuja?> The 49-year-old American lawyer, an immigrant from India, raised in Savannah, Georgia will the first Indian-American to head this department, like many other India-Americans who might be the first Indian-Americans to head their department like Vice President Kamala Harris, and Neera Tanden, who if confirmed by Senate will be the first to head Office of Management and Budget.> Ahuja, who is currently the chief executive officer of Philanthropy Northwest, a network of regional institutions, had served as chief of staff at the Office of Personnel Management and as executive director of the White House Initiative on Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders under the Obama administration.> Ahuja graduated in law from the University of Georgia School of Law and began her career as a civil rights lawyer at the US Department of Justice. She was also the first to file the department's first student racial harassment case.> She has been at the forefront of advocating for the rights of women of colour and is currently also serving on the board of Asian Americans/Pacific Islanders in Philanthropy (AAPIP).Also Read | China needs to do more to restore normalcy: OfficialsWhy is Ahuja being considered for OPM?> With a wealth of experience in federal and philanthropic work, Ahuja is considered to be the best fit for the OPM that had been disrupted during the Trump administration with various experts leaving their agencies.> Many saw the nomination of Ahuja for the head of the OPM as an excellent choice on part of US President Joe Biden. The Washington Post had said that Ahuja has the mandate to reverse course on the Trump era's civil services policies."With over two decades of experience serving in government, non-profit and philanthropic sectors, Kiran is uniquely qualified to lead OPM at this critical juncture as we work to build a federal workforce that reflects the full diversity of our country," PTI had quoted Congresswoman Judy Chu as saying.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/who-is-kiran-ahuja-biden-s-choice-for-the-us-office-of-personnel-management-101614135534536.html
24-02-2021||India||Travellers from 5 states need negative Covid-19 report to enter Delhi from Feb 26 till March 15||Travellers from five states, including Maharashtra, Kerala and Punjab, will have to show negative Covid-19 test report before entering Delhi, reports said on Wednesday, amid a surge in the cases of the coronavirus disease in some areas. Those travelling to the national capital from Maharashtra, Kerala, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh and Punjab will have to show a negative RT-PCR test, and this rule will apply for those entering Delhi in trains, planes and buses, news agency ANI said. News agency PTI cited officials as saying that an order will be issued later in the day and it will be effective till March 15. The order is likely to be implemented from Friday night, they said.According to PTI, the issue was discussed in a meeting of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Monday.Also read | Government says 2 new variants not behind Covid-19 surge in Maharashtra, KeralaSeveral other states have also made it mandatory for visitors to produce Covid-19 test if they are coming from these areas amid a surge in the cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19).ALSO WATCH | Covid: As govt plans to vaccinate common people from March 1, progress so far﻿India has recorded a steady rise in active cases of the coronavirus disease over the past few days with a surge in daily infections in five states, sparking fears of a second wave and prompting the Centre to direct them to refocus on strict surveillance, containment and RT-PCR-testing. Along with Maharashtra, Kerala, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh and Punjab and the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir have also seen a surge in daily cases, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare.Maharashtra on Sunday announced a state-wide ban on social, political and religious gatherings, besides imposing fresh local lockdowns or curbs in districts like Pune and Amravati.Maharashtra also requires people from Gujarat, Delhi-NCR, Goa, Rajasthan and Kerala to show negative RT-PCR test irrespective of their mode of travel. A Covid-19 negative certificate is also mandatory in Karnataka for travellers from Maharashtra and Kerala. The Uttarakhand government has also made the Covid-19 test mandatory for people coming from Maharashtra, Gujarat, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh in the wake of a surge in coronavirus cases in these states.Manipur has made the Covid-19 test mandatory for passengers coming from Maharashtra and Kerala. This applies to passengers coming by air and will be in place from February 24. In Assam, all passengers, irrespective of their mode of travel, need to conduct a swab or antigen test on arrival. Passengers travelling to Meghalaya will either need to present an RT-PCR test, not earlier than 72 hours prior to arrival or will have to undergo a test at the airport. Mizoram also requires a negative Covid-19 report from all passengers. In Odisha, all passengers above the age of 55 years need to present a rapid antigen test on arrival in the state.Also read | India's Covid-19 positivity rate declining, trend of less deaths seen: GovtEveryone needs to undergo a Covid-19 test on arrival in Tripura, which is conducted free of cost. Passengers from all states arriving in Srinagar also need to provide a negative RT-PCR test. A negative Covid-19 report on arrival, not earlier than 72 hours prior to arrival, is required for all passengers visiting Ladakh.Delhi’s Covid-19 tally reached 638,173 and 10,903 deaths were reported on Tuesday after 145 new cases and two related deaths, according to a bulletin released by the Delhi government. And India's Covid-19 tally climbed to 11,030,176 with 13,742 new infections and 104 new deaths, according to the health ministry on Wednesday morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/travellers-from-5-states-need-negative-covid-19-report-to-enter-delhi-from-feb-26-till-march-15-101614139239563.html
24-02-2021||India||Disha Ravi gets bail in toolkit case: What the court said||A Delhi court on Tuesday granted bail to climate activist Disha Ravi days after she was arrested from Bengaluru for allegedly editing a social media document, or toolkit, about the ongoing farmer protest against three farm laws. Here is all you need to know about the court proceedings and what it said on dissent and freedom of speech:• The court granted the bail saying there was “scanty” and “sketchy” evidence to back charges of sedition against Ravi.• It asserted that citizens could not be jailed simply because they disagreed with government policies.ALSO WATCH | Disha Ravi gets bail in ‘toolkit’ case: Highlights of Delhi court order﻿• Additional sessions judge Dharmender Rana released the 22-year-old activist on a personal bond of ₹1 lakh and two sureties of similar amounts.Also Read | Tears and smiles as Ravi makes bail after 10 days• The judge held that Ravi had no connection with pro-Khalistani organisations, Poetic Justice Foundation (PJF), and Sikhs for Justice, and that there was not an “iota” of evidence linking her to the violence that rocked Delhi on Republic Day.• He cited the “scanty and sketchy evidence” and added he did not find any palpable reasons to breach the general rule of bail.• The judge said the 22-year-old was with absolutely blemish-free criminal antecedents and has firm roots in the society.• The court also said the call for any kind of violence was conspicuously absent from the toolkit, and no evidence was on record to suggest Ravi subscribed to secessionist ideas.• Activists have repeatedly said the toolkit is an innocuous document used by social media campaigns for strategy and planning.• The judge said citizens are the conscience-keepers of the government in any democratic nation.• He added they cannot be put behind bars simply because they choose to disagree with the state policies.• The judge said the offence of sedition cannot be invoked to minister to the wounded vanity of the government.• The court said difference of opinion, disagreement, divergence, dissent, or for that matter, even disapprobation, are recognised legitimate tools to infuse objectivity in state policies.• It added an aware and assertive citizenry, in contradistinction with an indifferent or docile citizenry, is indisputably a sign of a healthy and vibrant democracy.• Ravi is a part of the Indian wing of Fridays for Future, a global climate change movement founded by Swedish teen climate activist Greta Thunberg.• She was arrested on February 13 and charged with sedition, criminal conspiracy, and inciting to riot.• Police said Ravi, along with two other activists, created the toolkit to spread misinformation and incite unrest as part of a global conspiracy.• The court rejected the police’s argument and said it could not be presumed on “surmises or conjectures” that Ravi supported secessionist tendencies or violence, simply because she shared a platform with people who gathered to oppose the farm laws.• The court said the right to dissent is enshrined under Article 19 of the Constitution. It added the freedom of speech and expression includes the right to seek a global audience.• The court said there are no geographical barriers on communication.• It added a citizen has the fundamental rights to use the best means of imparting and receiving communication, as long as the same is permissible under the law and as such have access to the audience abroad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/disha-ravi-gets-bail-in-toolkit-case-what-the-court-said-101614139070425.html
24-02-2021||India||Delhi medical body condemns letter criticising health min for Coronil launch||The Delhi Medical Association (DMA) on Tuesday condemned Indian Medical Association (IMA)’s statement on Monday that said Union health minister Harsh Vardhan promoted Patanjali’s Coronil tablet, which the company claims is an evidence-based medicine against Covid-19.The IMA expressed shock over the “blatant lie of WHO certification” for Coronil and demanded an explanation from Vardhan, who was present at the launch of the medicine.…The contents of the [IMA] press release are baseless, unauthorised, illegal and defamatory for the clean and honest image of Hon’ble Union Minister of Health Dr. Harsh Vardhan. The Union Health Minister attended a programme by Patanjali Research Institute to launch their new drug CORONIL which they claim has a role in prevention and treatment of COVID 19. As per the promoter of the drug, Coronil have received Certificate of Pharmaceutical Product (Copp) from DCGI, Government of India,” said the DMA letter.Also Read | Unethical to promote Patanjali’s Coronil without checks: IMA“The Hon’ble Health Minister attended the inaugural programme in his capacity as a union Health Minister and not as a Modern Medicine Practitioner. Moreover Dr. Harsh Vardhan didn’t speak a word about the CORONIL, where is the question of promoting it. He only emphasised time and again that we intend to develop Ayurveda into an evidence based medical system of treatment in Modern India. He further went on to clarify that he is a Modern Medicine Doctor and intends to practice the same system in future as well but want that all systems of medicine should complement each other so as to benefit the whole mankind,” the letter added.The DMA said the questions being raised by IMA regarding the nature of the trial of Coronil or on false claims of WHO certification are to be answered by the drug Controller or Patanjali Research Institute.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-medical-body-condemns-letter-criticising-health-min-for-coronil-launch-101614138885041.html
24-02-2021||India||Former BJD MLA arrested for assaulting and robbing tourists||A former Biju Janata Dal (BJD) MLA Debendra Kanhar and one of his associates were arrested in Odisha’s Kandhamal district on Tuesday for allegedly thrashing and looting a group of tourists, said police. Kanhar was MLA from Phulbani between 2009 and 2014.Kanhar and his associate, an India Reserve Battalion (IRB) jawan named Srinivasan Kanhar, were arrested on charges of assaulting a group of tourists when they were visiting the Katramal waterfalls in Kandhamal district. Kamaksha Behera and his friends from Parjang in Dhenkanal district came to Kandhamal on February 11 for picnic when they were beaten up mercilessly by Kanhar and his associates. The former MLA even snatched away money from the tourists, said Phulbani sub divisional police officer Mahendranath Murmu.Also Read:Odisha woman arrested for marrying multiple men through different Aadhaar IDThis is not the first time Kanhar is in trouble. In October 2018, he was arrested in Andhra Pradesh for misbehaving with a girl and her mother. Earlier, a sex tape of the former legislator had surfaced.A police team apprehended the former MLA from FCI Chhak in the town area. Police said Kanhar and his accomplice have been booked under sections 160/21/1817/34/365 of IPC. However, three other accused in the case are still absconding.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-bjd-mla-arrested-for-assaulting-and-robbing-tourists-101614138124715.html
24-02-2021||India||News updates from HT: Indian firms likely to give average salary hike of 7.7% and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Indian firms likely to give an average salary hike of 7.7%Indian companies are likely to hand out an average of 7.7% salary increase this year, with top performers projected to get as much as 60% in raises, the India Salary Increase Survey by consulting firm Aon said on Tuesday. Read moreCovid-19 vaccination: People over 60 likely to be allowed to self-registerPeople aged above 60 and those with comorbidities will be allowed to self-register and choose Covid-19 vaccination centres from March 1, an official confirmed as the govt is working to speed up the second phase of the vaccination process. Read more'Dare Mighty Things': Mars rover's giant parachute carried secret messageThe huge parachute used by NASA's Perseverance rover to land on Mars contained a secret message, thanks to a puzzle lover on the spacecraft team. Read moreTears and smiles as Ravi makes bail after 10 daysEight days ago, 22-year-old climate activist Disha Ravi, arrested in connection with the Toolkit case, was granted bail on Tuesday, the sheer relief brought tears in her eyes. Read moreHuge 350-pound crocodile swallows footwear, vets perform surgery to remove it“If the shoe fits your fancy… swallow it? Not a good idea!” this is how the post about a huge crocodile that had to undergo a surgery to remove an unsavoury snack from her stomach starts. Read moreHappy anniversary Ajay Devgn and Kajol: When she asked him for help with boyfriend problems, relied on his 'sage advice'On Ajay Devgn and Kajol's 22nd wedding anniversary, here is a lesser-known fact about them. Did you know they were in relationships with other people when they first met? Read moreTiger Woods suffers serious leg injuries in car wreckGolfing champion Tiger Woods was hospitalised in LA on Tuesday with severe leg injuries as his car veered off a road and rolled down a hillside, requiring rescue crews to pry him from the wreckage, authorities said. Read moreRecipe: Let Biscoff Brownie Batter Cookie Cups paint mid-week blues, caramelWho wouldn’t love to indulge in the aroma of spice and caramel flavour this Wednesday? If you are already drooling, here’s a recipe of Biscoff Brownie Batter Cookie Cups to conquer your drooping mid-week mood. Read moreHow Indian Army trains soldiers to battle terrorists in J&K | WatchCounter-terror operation training was held at 15 corps battle school in J&K. The Indian Army trained soldiers to battle terrorists in J&K. Trainees were seen climbing up and rappelling down a steep rock wall.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-indian-firms-likely-to-give-average-salary-hike-of-7-7-and-all-the-latest-news-101614134530565.html
24-02-2021||India||Chhattisgarh woman Maoist surrendered last week, dies by suicide, probe sought||A 20-year-old woman Maoist cadre, who surrendered last week, allegedly died by suicide on Tuesday in Chhattisgarh’s Dantewada district, the superintendent of police said he has requested for a magisterial probe into the incident.“Kumar Pande Kawasi (20), resident of Gudse village which comes under Katekalyan Police station surrendered on February 19, along with five other Maoists. Kawasi died by suicide today in transit barrack on Tuesday at around 4:00 to 4:30pm. She went for taking bath and died by suicide by hanging by her dupatta. She was accompanied by surrendered cadre Jogi, constable Sushila Karram and GS Jayo Attami,” a statement issued by Dantewada superintendent of police Abhishek Pallava stated.As per the police, Kawasi, was a member of Chetna Natya Mandli (CNM) - a cultural wing of the Maoists and she approached police on February 18 along with a senior woman Maoist cadre, Kumari Jogi (36), a member of Katekalyan area committee of the banned group, expressing their willingness to surrender.Also Read: Chhattisgarh: Peace panel formed for dialogue with Maoists and the state“Next day, the two cadres and two other Maoist couples turned themselves in before the police and the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) officials. Due to threat (from the Maoists), the surrendered cadre generally prefer to stay in the town and in police security,” police said in a statement.Pallava said he wrote to the Dantewada collector requesting him for a magisterial probe into the incident. Police said the post-mortem will be conducted on Wednesday morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-woman-maoist-surrendered-last-week-dies-by-suicide-probe-sought-101614136823548.html
24-02-2021||India||Govt steps up vaccination drive amid fresh Covid-19 spike; over 11.9 million doses administered||India has upscaled the pace of vaccination against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) as the fear of second wave looms amid a fresh spike of cases being reported mainly from two states- Maharashtra and Kerala.By the 39th day of the world’s largest immunisation campaign on Tuesday, as many as 11,907,392 doses of the Covid-19 vaccines had been administered to health and frontline workers, the Union ministry of health and family welfare said in a statement.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 hereOf the total shots given, 64,71,047 health workers have received the first dose, 13,21,635 have got the second dose while 41,14,710 frontline workers have received the first dose, the ministry said, adding that while the countrywide vaccination drive was rolled out on January 16, vaccination of the frontline workers started from February 2. According to the health ministry, five adverse event following immunisation (AEFIs) have been reported related to first dose inoculation and three related to second dose.Uttar Pradesh has so far administered the maximum number of shots at 12,26,775, followed by Maharashtra (10,03,706) and Kerala (9,01,400).Also Read| A race against time: Vaccine drive needs boost amid spikeThe seven-day average of new cases across the country dropped to its lowest on February 11, when it touched 10,988, but it has shown a sustained increase since then to reach 12,971 on Monday – a rise of 18%, according to data. This increase is triggered mainly by Maharashtra, Punjab and Madhya Pradesh, where cases have grown 127%, 55% and 54% respectively.As the nation’s infection tally witnesses an upward trend, the government plans to take the rate of coronavirus vaccinations to five million a day in the next four to six weeks.Also Read | Covid vaccination: People over 60 likely to be allowed to self-registerAs the government looks to begin the second phase of the immunisation drive, it is likely to face a tougher challenge than it does at present. It wants to begin covering people above the age of 50 and those with high risks. The number of this group is expected to be around 270 million.Also, people aged above 60 and those with comorbidities will be allowed to self-register and choose where they can be vaccinated for Covid-19 from March 1, an official familiar with the matter told HT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-steps-up-vaccination-drive-amid-fresh-covid-19-spike-over-11-9-million-doses-administered-101614135403902.html
24-02-2021||India||SC to hear plea seeking CBI probe in Palghar mob-lynching case||The Supreme Court is set to hear the plea seeking a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in the Palghar mob-lynching incident on Wednesday.Maharashtra government had earlier informed the apex court that all guilty police officials have been punished or suspended from services.The pleas also seek a probe by the CBI and registration of FIR against police officials for their alleged failure to prevent the mob from gathering in violation of the lockdown norms.Also read| Tears and smiles as Ravi makes bail after 10 daysThe case pertains to the mob lynching of two sadhus and their driver on the night of April 16 this year, when they were traveling from Kandivali in Mumbai to attend a funeral in Gujarat's Surat amid the nationwide lockdown and their vehicle was stopped and they were allegedly attacked and killed by a mob in Gadchinchile village in the presence of police officers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-to-hear-plea-seeking-cbi-probe-in-palghar-mob-lynching-case-101614134014728.html
24-02-2021||India||Anganwadi centres reopen after 11 months in Jammu and Kashmir's Rajouri||Anganwadi centres reopened after 11 months in Jammu and Kashmir's Rajouri district on Tuesday as Covid-19 restrictions began to ease across different parts of the country.Speaking to ANI, District Programme Officer of Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS) Rajouri said: "Our 1,669 Anganwadi centres were closed for almost 11 months due to the Covid-19 outbreak. However, despite these trying times, our Anganwadi workers tried their best to provide door to door facilities to the people. Many workers provided cooked meals as well while adhering to Covid-19 protocols.""Last week, our officials held a review meeting with the District Collector. It is then that we decided to reopen the centres today. Since last week, we have ensured that cleanliness, hygiene, clean toilets, water are maintained at the Centre," he added.Manju Sharma, an Anganwadi worker in Rajouri's Palam village told ANI, "Parents are happy. Children are happy to come back to our centres. I work at Main Market, Ward No. 2, Palam Centre. In this pandemic, many poor children could not afford to study via online mode. Many did not even have a smartphone. A few who had access to smartphones or computers found it difficult to get internet access. Hence by coming back to this Centre, both parents and children feel happy."Also read| A race against time: Vaccine drive needs boost amid spikeA girl who regularly visits Palam's Anganwadi centre said, "I get food here. I also learn English alphabets and recite mathematical tables. I enjoy coming here."A parent who sends her child to this Centre said, "I am happy that this Centre has reopened. My child is learning several self-development skills at this Centre. My child is going to become self-reliant now."On July 29, 2020, the National Education Policy (NEP), approved by the Union Cabinet, envisaged sweeping reforms in school and higher education including teaching up to at least Grade 5 in "mother tongue or regional language" and a new 5 3 3 4 school curriculum with 12 years of schooling and three years of Anganwadi or pre-schooling.Anganwadi is a type of rural child care centre started by the Government of India in 1975 as part of the Integrated Child Development Services program to combat child hunger and malnutrition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/anganwadi-centres-reopen-after-11-months-in-jammu-and-kashmir-s-rajouri-101614131886813.html
24-02-2021||India||Rain, snow warning for J&K, Himachal, Uttarakhand for next five days||Widespread rain and snow is likely over the western Himalayan region in the next five days, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD).Under the influence of a Western Disturbance as a trough (area of low pressure) and a fresh feeble Western Disturbance, fairly widespread rainfall or snowfall is likely over Jammu, Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit, Baltistan and Muzaffarabad during the next five days; scattered rainfall or snowfall over Himachal Pradesh for the next three days and scattered rainfall or snowfall over Uttarakhand during the next five days.Thunderstorms and lightning are very likely over Jammu, Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit, Baltistan & Muzaffarabad, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand between February 25 and 27. Hailstorms are also likely over Jammu, Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit, Baltistan and Muzaffarabad on February 25; Himachal Pradesh on February 25 and 26 and over Uttarakhand on February 26 and 27.Also Read | Rains lash some parts of Kashmir, wet spell to last till February end: IMDIsolated heavy rainfall or snowfall is very likely over Jammu, Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit and Baltistan on February 25 and 26 and in Himachal Pradesh on February 26.Dense fog was not reported from anywhere on Wednesday morning. Visibility of 500metre or less was recorded at Gorakhpur in east Uttar Pradesh and Haldia in Gangetic west Bengal reported it at 200metre; Digha , also in Gangetic west Bengal), recorded it at 500metre; Delhi’s Palam at 2,000m and Safdarjung 1,000m.“As February is coming to an end, we are expecting a rise in both maximum and minimum temperatures. The maximum temperature is likely to be 30 to 31 degrees Celsius (°C) while the minimum is likely to be 12-13°C in the next 3 to 4 days. A Western Disturbance is impacting the western Himalayan region. Once that moves away, there will be a marginal and brief drop in temperatures in the Capital as cold northwesterly winds will be blowing but otherwise, it’s likely to get warmer now,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rain-snow-warning-for-j-k-himachal-and-upper-reaches-of-uttarakhand-101614134745201.html
24-02-2021||India||16 people injured as TDP, YSRCP workers clash in Srikakulam, Andhra Pradesh||16 persons were injured on Tuesday after a clash erupted between workers of Telugu Desam Party (TDP) and Yuvajana Sramika Rythu Congress Party (YSRCP) in Mettavalasa village of Srikakulam.Sub Inspector of Srikakulam Police, M Ahmad told ANI, "A clash erupted between workers of TDP and YSRCP in Mettavalasa village of Srikakulam allegedly over social media post related to recent local body polls. 16 persons were injured. They were taken to hospital.""As of now, we have deployed additional police personnel at the village," said Ahmad."In the recently concluded Gram Panchayat elections, a candidate supported by TDP has won in Mettavalasa village. Some YSRCP workers made some posts on their social media handles. TDP workers allege that those posts are derogatory. In this wake, TDP workers had a verbal brawl with YSRCP workers," said the police official."A heated argument led to a clash between both the groups. In the clash, 16 persons are injured. The police came to know about the matter, rushed to the spot and dispersed the groups. The injured persons were sent to Government General Hospital in nearby Rajam town. The police set up a picket in the village in order to prevent any untoward incidents in the village," said Ahmad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/16-people-injured-as-tdp-ysrcp-workers-clash-in-srikakulam-andhra-pradesh-101614133593384.html
24-02-2021||India||Maharashtra Covid-19: Record spike in Amravati, districts impose travel ban||Maharashtra's Amravati, one of the districts that are contributing the highest to Maharashtra's increasing number of daily infections, saw the highest single-day spike on Tuesday, reporting 926 infections, news agency PTI reported. The district is under a seven-day lockdown, which started on February 22. All shops, establishments, schools, colleges are closed in the district now. Only essential services are allowed.On Tuesday, Akola city reported 121 fresh cases, Yavatmal reported 165 cases and Buldhana reported 161 cases.The sudden spike in daily cases in Maharashtra began in February. Amravati reported 9,069 Covid-19 cases only in February. Out of this 4,728 were detected since February 17.Mutations of Sars-Cov-2 found in Maharashtra, Kerala samples: OfficialsWith the growing number of cases, the entire Vidarbha region is being isolated in the state as other districts are closing their borders to stop Vidarbha people from travelling to other districts.Amravati/Akola division falls under the Vidarbha region, which is reporting the maximum Covid-19 cases. Vidarbha comprises 11 districts, which includes five under the Amravati division and six under the Nagpur division.Amravati/Akola division comprises Akola, Amravati, Buldana, Yavatmal and Washim districts. Apart from lockdown in Amravati and Yavatmal, restrictions have been imposed in other districts of the division.The Nagpur division consists of Bhandara, Chandrapur, Gadchiroli, Gonda, Nagpur and Wardha.Parbhani of the Marathwada region of Maharashtra, famous for the Sai Baba temple, has announced the closure of places of worship and imposed travel restrictions from the 11 districts of Vidarbha. "We have told private buses as well as those of MSRTC to not bring passengers from these parts to Parbhani. We have also ordered the closure of places of worship till February 28," collector Deepak Muglikar told PTI.(With Agency Inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-covid-19-record-spike-in-amravati-amid-lockdown-districts-impose-travel-ban-101614132244226.html
24-02-2021||India||White House nominates Indian-American as director of management and budget||The White House and the Indian-American community are solidly backing the nomination of Neera Tanden as the Director of Office of Management and Budget, describing her as the most appropriate candidate to hold the position."There's one candidate to lead the budget department, and her name is Neera Tanden," White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki told reporters at her daily news conference on Tuesday as several Republican Senators are opposing her nomination, citing her past social media behaviour.If confirmed by the Senate, 50-year-old Tanden would become the first person of colour to head the federal agency that prepares the annual budget of the US government.Republican Senator Rob Portman from Ohio on Monday announced that he would vote against Tanden during the confirmation process. The two other senators who have already announced their opposition are Republicans Susan Collins and Mitt Romney. Democratic Senator Joe Manchin has already announced that he will vote against her.Democrats hold the Senate by a 50-50 margin, and Manchin's announcement last week was seen as devastating for Tanden's chances.Also read| Biden nominates Indian-American lawyer Kiran Ahuja to head Personnel ManagementPsaki said Tanden has had 44 meetings with senators of both parties. She's spoken with 15 senators from both parties since Friday. Some of those were repeats of people she had spoken with previously, the press secretary said.She said Tanden is committed to rolling up her sleeves, having those conversations, answering questions as they come up, reiterating her commitment to working with people across the aisle, and also sharing some of her own experience of working with people of different viewpoints."We’re going to push. We still think there’s a shot, a good shot,” Biden told reporters at the White House.The Senate Budget Committee has scheduled a vote on Tanden's nomination on Wednesday, while the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee is all set to take up the vote a day later on Thursday.The Republican senators have alleged that Tanden was sharply critical of their leadership in the past and she has now deleted more than thousands of such tweets.A delay in her confirmation process would have repercussions on the preparation and presentation of the annual budget.Also read| Mexico doing better than US on Covid-19, says Mexican PresidentComing out in support of Tanden, US Chamber of Commerce said she is well-qualified to lead OMB and brings an established track record of engagement with the business community.Indian Americans from across the country have joined “YesNeera” twitter campaign organised by South Asians for Biden.Tanden is highly qualified to be OMB director, tweeted Namrata Majumdar, a tech and economy policy expert.“She's a trailblazer for women in government policy despite the odds. We cannot let double standards derail the chance of the first WOC (women of colour) in this role,” she said.Neha Dewan, national director of South Asians for Biden said South Asians for Biden stands with Tanden and Surgeon General nominee Dr Vivek Murthy, and strongly urges swift confirmations of Biden's cabinet selections.“The Biden-Harris administration thoughtfully selected the most diverse cabinet and senior staff in American history to guide America through multiple converging crises. We are particularly heartened by the inclusion of outstanding South Asian public servants, including Ms Tanden and Dr Murthy, and we strongly urge the US Senate to confirm them,” she said.Also read| Top US Senate Democrat directs lawmakers to craft bill to counter ChinaTanden was a key architect of the Affordable Care Act, which expanded healthcare to millions of American families, and has served as a senior policy advisor to Democratic presidential campaigns and administrations.“Tanden’s longstanding commitment to advancing policies that improve American lives makes her an ideal choice to serve as President Biden’s top budget advisor,” Dewan said.On the Senate floor, Senator John Cornyn, who co-chairs the Senate Indian Caucus, urged Biden to withdraw the nomination of Tanden."My friendly advice to President Biden is to withdraw Neera Tanden's nomination and select someone, who at the very least, has not promoted wild conspiracy theories and openly bashed people on both sides of the aisle that she happens to disagree with," he said.Joining the “YesNeera” social media campaign, Olympian and five-time World Champion figure skater Michelle Kwan tweeted that Tanden is qualified to lead the OMB and if confirmed, will be the first woman of colour and Asian American Pacific Islanders to do so.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/white-house-nominates-indian-american-as-director-of-management-and-budget-101614128910253.html
24-02-2021||India||7 killed as oil tanker collides with car on Yamuna Expressway||Seven persons were killed after an oil tanker collided with a car near Naujheel police station on the Yamuna Expressway on Tuesday night, said an official.Mathura senior superintendent of police Gaurav Grover said: "Seven persons including two women died after an oil tanker collided with the car they were travelling in on Yamuna Expressway."Also read| 4 school students killed, 6 injured in Bihar as bus rams SUV"The oil tanker was headed towards Agra. As per preliminary investigations, the tanker collided with the divider. During the collision, a car came between the tanker and the divider. All those who were travelling in the car are dead. The kin of the deceased have been informed about the incident," Grover said."Bodies have been recovered and sent for post-mortem. Further probe is underway," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/7-killed-as-oil-tanker-collides-with-car-on-yamuna-expressway-101614129627964.html
24-02-2021||India||1,040 militants of 5 outfits surrender in Assam||Dreaded militant Ingti Kathar Songbijit and 1,039 others belonging to five outfits on Tuesday laid down arms before Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal to return to the mainstream. The militants belong to People's Democratic Council of Karbi Longri (PDCK), Karbi Longri NC Hills Liberation Front (KLNLF), Karbi People's Liberation Tiger (KPLT), Kuki Liberation Front (KLF) and United Peoples Liberation Army (UPLA). Songbijit is the chief of PDCK. He was earlier the commander-in-chief of the banned National Democratic Front of Boroland. He was involved in several incidents of massacres, mostly of the people from minority communities, in the erstwhile Bodoland Territorial Area Districts.Songbijit was sidelined after the Ranjan Daimary faction of NDFB suspended operations. He later formed the PDCK in Karbi Anglong district. Welcoming the 1,040 surrenderers from Karbi Anglong and West Karbi Anglong districts into the mainstream, Sonowal said his government is working to make Assam a terror-free state. "We are giving all possible support to the youths coming back to the society. We are giving financial help as well as logistic support. We will continue to do that," he added. The militants deposited 338 arms, including 58 AK series rifles, 11 M-16 guns and four LMGs, the Additional Director General of Police (Special Branch) Hiren Chandra Nath said. A formal peace agreement will be signed by the government with the insurgent groups within the next two days, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1040-militants-of-5-outfits-surrender-in-assam-101614129338586.html
24-02-2021||India||Biden nominates Indian-American lawyer Kiran Ahuja to head Office of Personnel Management||US President Joe Biden has nominated Indian-American lawyer and rights activist Kiran Ahuja to head the Office of Personnel Management, a federal agency that manages America’s more than two million civil servants.If confirmed by the Senate, 49-year-old Ahuja, nominated on Tuesday, would become the first Indian-American to serve this top position in the US government.Ahuja served as the Chief of Staff to Director of the US Office of Personnel Management from 2015 to 2017. She has more than two decades of public service and nonprofit/philanthropic sector leadership experience.Ahuja currently serves as Chief Executive Officer of Philanthropy Northwest, a regional network of philanthropic institutions.She began her career as a civil rights lawyer at the US Department of Justice, litigating school desegregation cases, and filing the department's first student racial harassment case.From 2003 to 2008, Ahuja served as the founding executive director of the National Asian Pacific American Women’s Forum, an advocacy and membership organisation.During the Obama-Biden administration, she spent six years as executive director of the White House Initiative on Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders, leading efforts to increase access to federal services, resources and programmes for underserved Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders (AAPIs).Ahuja grew up in Savannah, Georgia, as a young Indian immigrant in the wake of the civil rights era, and earned a bachelor’s degree in political science from Spelman College and a law degree from the University of Georgia.The Washington Post said Ahuja would have a mandate to reverse course on former president Donald Trump’s policies on the civil service, which he and his top aides often derided as a “deep state” of Democratic bureaucrats.Many agencies lost experts in a range of fields during the Trump era, and Biden has pledged to revitalise the workforce, the daily reported.Congressman Gerry Connolly, Chairman of the House Government Operations subcommittee, welcomed the nomination of Ahuja.“Ahuja’s years of leadership experience and knowledge of OPM are much needed to rebuild an agency that was targeted for elimination in the last administration,” he said.“Ahuja is a well-known and expert leader who will instill stability and confidence in OPM as it recruits, hires, retains, and retires our 2.8 million federal employees. I look forward to her swift Senate confirmation, and then getting to the hard work of transforming OPM into the human resources and leadership training organization our nation needs it to be,” Connolly said.President Biden has made an excellent choice in his nomination of Ahuja to serve as OPM director, Congresswoman Judy Chu said.“With over two decades of experience serving in government, non-profit and philanthropic sectors, Kiran is uniquely qualified to lead OPM at this critical juncture as we work to build a federal workforce that reflects the full diversity of our country,” she said.“As the former chief of staff to the director of OPM and the former executive director of the White House Initiative on Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders under the Obama administration, she will bring a wealth of knowledge and expertise to OPM that will enable her to hit the ground running on day one,” Chu added.Max Stier, president and CEO of the Partnership for Public Service, said Ahuja is a civic-minded leader and an outstanding choice for this important job.Her exceptional qualifications include more than two decades of nonprofit leadership and public service, including at OPM and the White House, and a track record of solving human capital issues through innovation and collaboration, he noted.In a statement, American Federation of Government employees said Ahuja brings a wealth of experience in federal personnel matters and her record of advocacy on behalf of women of colour is reason to be optimistic that she will make it a priority to reverse the previous administration’s active undermining of diversity and inclusion efforts across the government.“Ahuja has the knowledge and experience that OPM needs to guide human resource policy for the federal workforce. And importantly, she is committed to protecting the non-partisan civil service and ensuring that it reflects the diversity of the United States,” said National Treasury Employee Union president Tony Reardon."During the Trump administration, the agency was constantly disrupted by outside efforts to break it up and dismantle it, to the detriment of the federal employees who rely on OPM for independence and management of important federal employee programmes.“We believe this appointment will result in steady, professional leadership at OPM that is committed to protecting its unique role in administering federal retirement programmes and other human resource management priorities,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/biden-nominates-indian-american-lawyer-kiran-ahuja-to-head-office-of-personnel-management-101614128173991.html
24-02-2021||India||Punjab: Out of 4,000 schoolteachers tested, 13 found positive for Covid-19||Amritsar civil surgeon Charanjit Singh on Tuesday took cognizance of the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the state and informed that out of 4,000 schoolteachers tested, 13 teachers have been found positive for Covid-19.Singh told ANI: "Covid-19 cases have increased in the last 2-3 days. Sampling at schools has been made mandatory. Out of 4,000 school teachers tested, 13 have been found to be positive.""Concerned schools are now closed for 48 hours for sanitisation," he said.Amid the growing concern over the rising Covid-19 trend in the state, Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Tuesday ordered fresh restrictions on indoor gathering to 100 and outdoor to 200 people from March 1 and also issued a slew of directions to curb the further rise of the infection.Also read| Mutations found in Maha, Kerala samples: OfficialsSix states account for 84.62 per cent of the new deaths of which Punjab reported 15 deaths, read the press release by the Health Ministry on Tuesday."The country's Active Caseload has fallen below 1.50 lakh. It stands at 1,47,306 today. The present active caseload now consists of 1.34 per cent of India's total positive cases. 10,584 new daily cases have been recorded in the last 24 hours whereas 13,255 recoveries registered in the last 24 hours. It has led to a net decline of 2,749 cases in the total active caseload," read the release on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-out-of-4-000-schoolteachers-tested-13-found-positive-for-covid19-101614126445019.html
24-02-2021||India||Indian social activist among 12 anti-corruption champions awarded by Biden admin||Anjali Bharadwaj, an Indian social activist working on issues of transparency and accountability, is one of the 12 anti-corruption champions announced by the Biden administration."The Biden administration recognises that we will only be successful in combating these issues by working in concert with committed partners, including courageous individuals who champion anti-corruption efforts and countries working to fulfil their commitments to international anti-corruption standards," US Secretary of State Tony Blinken said on Tuesday.“For that reason, I am announcing a new International Anti-Corruption Champions Award, recognising individuals who have worked tirelessly, often in the face of adversity, to defend transparency, combat corruption, and ensure accountability in their own countries,” he said.According to the State Department, Bhardwaj has served as an active member of the Right to Information Movement in India for over two decades.Also read| Biden administration prepares to impose sanctions on Russia over Navalny stirThe 48-year-old activist is also the founder of the Satark Nagrik Sangathan (SNS), a citizens' group with a mandate to promote transparency and accountability in government and encourage active participation of citizens.She is also a convener of the National Campaign for Peoples’ Right to Information, which successfully advocated for the creation of an anti-corruption ombudsman and the Whistle Blowers’ Protection Act, offering protection to those who expose corruption and abuse of power.Bharadwaj in a tweet said the honour is a "recognition of the collective effort of people and groups across the country who hold power to account”.In addition to Bharadwaj, the other honourees are: Ardian Dvorani of Albania, Diana Salazar of Ecuador, Sophia Pretrick of Micronesia, Juan Francisco Sandoval Alfaro of Guatemala, Ibrahima Kalil Gueye of Guinea, Dhuha A Mohammed of Iraq, Bolot Temirov of Kyrgyz Republic, Mustafa Abdullah Sanalla of Libya, Victor Sotto of The Philippines, Francis Ben Kaifala of Sierra Leone, and Ruslan Ryaboshapka of Ukraine.Also read| Millions of masks to be sent to households in Biden equity plan"They inspire us and so many of their counterparts pursuing these ideals around the world. The United States enforces one of the most robust anti-corruption frameworks in the world,” Blinken said.The US, he said, was the first to criminalise foreign bribery and, in partnership with foreign counterparts, have recovered and returned more than USD 1 billion in stolen public assets in the past two years alone.“We use a range of tools to promote accountability for corrupt individuals, combat impunity globally, and engage in multilateral fora to fight corruption and strengthen citizen engagement,” Blinken said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-social-activist-among-12-anti-corruption-champions-awarded-by-biden-admin-101614124372112.html
24-02-2021||India||TN mining baron jailed for bribing official||A special CBI court in Delhi on Tuesday sentenced a sand mining baron from Tamil Nadu, S Vaikundarajan, to three years in jail and a fine of ₹5 lakh for bribing an environment ministry scientist to get approval for a special economic zone (SEZ) in Tamil Nadu in 2016. Neeraj Khatri, a scientist dealing with files related to terms of reference for environmental approvals in the ministry, was sentenced to five years in jail and fine of ₹4 lakh for accepting a bribe of up to ₹7 lakh, the court order said.An associate of Vaikundarajan, 65, Subbalakshmi, was also convicted for arranging the deal between Khatri and the businessman. A fine of ₹10 lakh was also imposed on Vaikundarajan’s company, VV Minerals, for trying to fraudulently get approval for the terms of reference, which are considered in-principle approval for a project. The three were convicted on Monday and their sentences were pronounced on Tuesday. VV Minerals, the country’s biggest sand mining company, had applied for environmental clearance for an SEZ in Tamil Nadu’s Tirunelveli in 2012.In its charge-sheet, the CBI said it found that Khatri, then a deputy director (Scientist-C) in the environment ministry, had accepted a demand draft of ₹4.13 lakh dated July 3, 2013 in favour of VIT University (Vellore) to get his son admitted in a B.Tech course there. The money was given at the behest of Vaikundarajan, the CBI said. The CBI also said the air tickets for Khatri and his son from Delhi to Chennai and back were bought by SubbalakshmiIn return, Khatri took charge of the file even though it should have been considered by another division in the environment ministry.“The matter of environment clearance is a sensitive subject matter…the purpose is to save and protect the environment in order to protect public health...the accused, by indulging in an act of receiving payment (by way of demand draft for admission of his son), allowed this very purpose to be compromised,” CBI special judge Nirja Bhatia said in her order on Tuesday.On Vaikundarajan, the court said,“He indulged in all sorts of manipulations, which he made in his records including personal records and that of the company of which he is the managing partner and as well outside by showing disregard in handing over the application directly to Neeraj Khatri, by his side-stepping the established procedure,” the court said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tn-mining-baron-jailed-for-bribing-official-101614122753341.html
24-02-2021||India||China needs to do more to restore normalcy: Officials||The recent completion of disengagement on the banks of Pangong Lake in the Ladakh sector is only the start of a process and China needs to do much more to fully restore normalcy in the bilateral relationship, people familiar with the developments aid.China’s next steps will be watched closely to decide on the future course of engagement either at the bilateral or multilateral level, the people said on condition of anonymity.“The train went off the tracks. We have just started the process of getting it back on the tracks. Let’s see where things go,” one of the people cited above said.Also Read | On China, the trade dilemmaThe people described the recent drawdown of Indian and Chinese forces on the northern and southern banks of Pangong Lake as a “good beginning” but cautioned that more needs to be done to address several other friction points on the Line of Actual Control. “A lot of things have gone wrong and the work of putting things right has just begun. Things have to be put back on track before we can talk of moving forward,” said the person cited above. The 10th round of talks between senior military commanders on February 20, held after the completion of disengagement at Pangong Lake, was unable to make a breakthrough on addressing the other friction points such as Gogra, Hot Springs and Depsang Plains.A joint statement issued after the meeting described the drawdown at Pangong Lake as “a significant step forward” and said the two sides would continue their dialogue and “push for a mutually acceptable resolution of the remaining issues in a steady and orderly manner”.However, the people cited above said there were no immediate indications as to when the next round of talks, either at the diplomatic or military level, would be held with the Chinese side. Experts cautioned that too much shouldn’t be read into the Chinese foreign ministry’s statement on Monday that supports India’s chairmanship of the Brics grouping for 2021. “China should know that after Galwan it can’t be business as usual,” said former ambassador Ashok Sajjanhar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-needs-to-do-more-to-restore-normalcy-officials-101614121158389.html
24-02-2021||India||AAP springs a surprise, Kejriwal thanks voters||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Tuesday walked into the widening Opposition space in Gujarat by making a strong debut in the 120-seat Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC), winning 27 seats to relegate the Congress to nil. The ruling BJP won the remaining 93 seats in civic body polls.The BJP appeared headed to win all six municipal corporations-- Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Bhavnagar, Jamnagar, Rajkot and Surat.“For starting a new kind of politics, thanks from the bottom of the heart to the people of Gujarat,” tweeted AAP chief and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal soon after the results became clear.Also Read | ‘Honoured to serve Gujarat’: Modi after civic polls sweep“People of Gujarat have voted for politics of work as they were fed up by the politics of BJP and Congress. The people of Gujarat wanted an alternative and AAP has emerged as the key alternative to the present parties...” said Kejriwal in a press statement.The Congress failed to open its account in Surat for the first time since 1995, prompting its city president Sagar Raika to quit. In the 2015 elections, the Congress won 36 seats out of a total of 116 in the SMC. The AAP, which did not win any seats in its first electoral foray in Gujarat in the 2014 Lok Sabha polls, chose to fight the elections at the grassroots level this time before graduating to the 2022 state polls.Promising to be an alternative to the BJP and the Congress, the party contested without its national convener Kejriwal. But Delhi’s deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia conducted road shows that drew healthy crowds, especially in Surat. AAP registered victories in areas dominated by the Patidar community, and where the Patidar Anamat Andolan Samiti, of which Congress leader Hardik Patel was once the convener, held sway. The PAAS threw its lot behind the AAP this time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aap-springs-a-surprise-kejriwal-thanks-voters-101614120078663.html
24-02-2021||India||‘Your Honour’ suitable for US, magistrate courts, says CJI||Judges of the Supreme Court are not to be addressed as “Your Honour” because such a salutation befits judges of the Supreme Court of the United States or the Magistrate courts in India, Chief Justice of India (CJI) Sharad Arvind Bobde said on Tuesday.Later in the day, Bar Council of India (BCI), the apex body of lawyers in the country, put out a press release clarifying that as per a September 28, 2019 resolution issued by it, “as per mostly preferred and prevalent practice” lawyers of the country be requested to address judges of the Supreme Court and High Courts as “My Lord” or “Your Lordship” while lawyers of the subordinate courts, tribunals and other forums may address the court as “Your Honour” or “Sir” or the equivalent word in respective regional languages.CJI Bobde, heading a three-judge bench, was hearing a petition filed by law student Shrikant Prasad. The petition sought filling up of vacancies in the subordinate judiciary, in particular at courts handling criminal cases.As he addressed the bench as “Your Honour”, the CJI said, “You either have the US Supreme Court or the Magistrate court here in your mind when you call us ‘Your Honour’. We do not want you to address us as Your Honour.”Earlier, in August 2020, CJI Bobde expressed similar reservation to a petitioner on being addressed as “Your Honour”.BCI rules, which regulate uniform standards of etiquette to be followed by lawyers across the country, in 2006 amended the law, making it binding on lawyers to address judges of the high courts and the Supreme Court as “Your Honour” or “Your Lordship”.The September 2019 BCI resolution seeks to override the Gazette notification and revives the commonly adopted practice followed among lawyers of addressing judges as “My Lords” or “Your Lordship”. Interestingly, the 2006 amendment termed the words “My Lord” and “Your Lordship” as “relics of British colonial past”.The press release issued by BCI chairman Manan Kumar Mishra said, “The said resolution was taken by the Council in order to maintain graciousness and to uphold the majesty (i.e. impressive beauty) of the Courts.”Lawyer bodies of Kerala high court and Punjab & Haryana high court have issued resolutions in line with the BCI amendment shedding the practice of using “My Lord” and “Your Lordship”.On one hand, while the rules permit the use of “Your Honour”, the preference shown by the CJI in being addressed by anything other than “Your Honour” has put lawyers in a fix. In 2014, a petition was filed in the Supreme Court by a lawyer Shiv Sagar Tiwari seeking a uniform standard to be adopted across all courts in the country for addressing judges of the higher courts and subordinate judiciary.Citing the 2006 BCI Rules, Tiwari demanded that the practice of addressing Supreme Court and HC judges as “My Lord” and “Your Lordship” must end.The top court refused to pass any order. Leaving this choice to the lawyers instead, the bench added a caveat that any form of addressing the judges should be dignified and respectful.Senior advocate Gopal Shankaranaraynan said: “We have grown up seeing generations of lawyers addressing Supreme Court and high court judges as My Lords... There are senior advocates in the Supreme Court who address judges as ‘Sir’, judges do not mind.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/your-honour-suitable-for-us-magistrate-courts-says-cji-101614119691549.html
24-02-2021||India||Militant leader gives up arms in Guwahati||Wanted militant Ingti Kathar Songbijit, along with 1,039 others, gave up militancy in Guwahati on Tuesday.Welcoming the militants to the mainstream, Assam chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal said, “I welcome all of you to the mainstream after giving up arms. We must all work together towards a peaceful and prosperous Assam. The government would do all it can to ensure that you are rehabilitated well.”Songbijit, is the chief of Peoples’ Democratic Council of Karbi Longri (PDCK), a militant outfit from the Karbi Anglong region. He was earlier the commander-in-chief of the banned National Democratic Front of Bodoland.The other militants belonged to five militant outfits in the Karbi Anglong — PDCK, Karbi Longri North Cachar Hills Liberation Front (KLNLF), United Peoples Liberation Army (UPLA), Karbi Peoples’ Liberation Tiger (KPLT) and Karbi Liberation Front (KLF). The outfits, active in Karbi Anglong district of Assam, have been demanding a separate state for the people belonging to the Karbi tribe.The five outfits are expected to sign a formal ceasefire agreement in presence of Union home minister Amit Shah on Thursday, a senior official said on condition of anonymity.The militants surrendered as many as 338 arms and over 11,000 rounds of ammunition, said Hiren Nath, IGP, special branch of Assam Police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/militant-leader-gives-up-arms-in-guwahati-101614119486393.html
24-02-2021||India||Trust in country’s health sector increased during pandemic: PM||Like several other sectors, India is now preparing to be aatmanirbhar, or self-reliant, in the health sector with focus on the public private partnership model to deal with health emergencies in a better way and improve access to health care for all, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said Tuesday.The prestige of India’s health sector and trust in it has increased manifold across the globe after it successfully overcame the “trial by fire” during the Covid-19 pandemic, he added, addressing a webinar on effective implementation of the Union Budget’s provisions in the health sector.“The amount allocated for the health sector in this year’s budget has been unprecedented, and is an attempt to provide better health care services to every citizen of this country. Last one year in a way has been an “agnipareeksha (trial by fire)” for the country and particularly for the health sector, but I am happy to announce that India managed to pass the test successfully...,” Modi said.Also Read | PM Modi pushes PPP model for ‘aatmanirbhar’ health sectorHe added that India “managed to save lives” and create a testing infrastructure in a few months, with currently 2,500 labs active for Covid-19 testing. Modi also said the successful handling of Covid-19 had been possible because of the collaboration between the government and the private sector.“Covid-19 has taught us that we don’t have to just fight this pandemic, but also have to be prepared to handle such epidemics in future too. We have to keep India ready for any eventuality, which is why it is equally important to strengthen the health sector,” he said.“From medical equipment to medicines, from ventilators to vaccines...from doctors to epidemiologists, we have to pay attention to all so that the country is better prepared for any health disaster in future,” he added.This is the inspiration behind the PM Aatmanirbhar Swasth Bharat Scheme, under which it has been decided that a modern ecosystem would be developed from research to testing and treatment in the country itself, Modi said.The government has proposed a budget outlay of ₹223,846 crore for health and well-being in 2021-2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/trust-in-country-s-health-sector-increased-during-pandemic-pm-101614118803484.html
24-02-2021||India||Custody not a substitute for conviction: Top court||The state cannot use its might to put someone behind bars as a substitute for final conviction, the Supreme Court observed on Tuesday, expressing concern over what it termed a “growing trend”.The observation came in the course of an interesting hearing on a point of law — when does the 60-day window for filing a charge-sheet as laid down by the Code of Criminal Procedure start, on the day the accused are remanded to custody or the day after?A bench of justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Hrishikesh Roy was critical of the “new philosophy” applied by the police and the prosecution to try and keep people in jail at least for a few days as a form of punishment prior to proving their guilt.Also Read | SC panel to meet today to decide fate of trees that face axe in Metro expansion“Putting someone behind bars cannot be a substitute for final conviction. Ultimately, the philosophy now seems to have become, “let us keep someone behind bars at least for some days even if there is no conviction in the end”. The state cannot use its might like this,” observed the bench.It also commented on the independence of investigating agencies, regretting that those working in these agencies were not adequately assessing the kinds of cases that should really go to trial since they were also influenced by several other factors.“In true sense, an independent agency, which is supposed to take a call on what should go to trial and what not, is also influenced by several other things... some {officers} are more interested about what after retirement for them,” remarked the bench.It added: “If every case goes to a trial, the real time to examine most serious cases is reduced. Corruption cases and CBI {Central Bureau of Investigation} cases take the longest. And the person who is being convicted after 20 years, will tell us I am 70 now, don’t send me to jail. All this needs to be corrected.”The bench also wondered if the government carried out any “legislative impact assessment” before making bounced cheques and traffic violations crimes to be tried by the courts.“These are institutional issues that nobody thinks of. Our good old jurisprudence on criminal laws, bail etc have been thrown away,” rued the court.The comments by the apex court came when the court was hearing bail pleas of Dewan Housing Finance Corporation (DHFL) promoters Kapil Wadhawan and Dheeraj Wadhwan, who have been jailed in a money laundering case registered against them by the Enforcement Directorate (ED).According to CBI and ED, Yes Bank invested around ₹3,700 crore in short-term non-convertible debentures of DHFL between April and June 2018 as a quid pro quo between Yes Bank’s co-promoter Rana Kapoor and the Wadhawans. The Wadhawans have been in jail since March last year.Senior advocates Abhishek Manu Singhvi and Amit Desai appeared for the Wadhawans while additional solicitor general SV Raju represented ED in the case.In September 2020, SC stayed an order by the Bombay high court that granted bail to the Wadhawans on the grounds that ED failed to file a charge-sheet in the matter within the 60-day window as stipulated by the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC).Raju, for ED, argued that there was no expiry of the time since the day on which an accused was remanded should be excluded while calculating the 60-day period. Raju showed a judgment of a three-judge bench of the SC to buttress his point.The counsel for Wadhawans also presented two other judgments of three-judge benches of the SC to contend that the 60-day period would start from the day on which accused are remanded to custody.Citing this “legal conundrum” arising out of contradictory judgments by the SC, the bench said: “We hear more SLPs (special leave petitions) than anything else. There is no time for laying down laws and to settle laws. If we, in the Supreme Court, are facing such a conundrum, think of high courts and magisterial courts. They will have more of a predicament and they can choose one out of many of our judgments on the same point.”The bench then decided to refer this case to the Chief Justice of India (CJI) for setting up a bench of at least three and preferably five judges for an authoritative ruling on the point of law.It also said the court order would request the CJI to have the Wadhawans’ plea for bail urgently listed before a three-judge bench.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/custody-not-a-substitute-for-conviction-top-court-101614118548758.html
24-02-2021||India||Rahul’s remark triggers ‘north-south’ row||Senior Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday said he was used to a “different type of politics” in north India and coming to Kerala was “very refreshing” as people are interested in “issues”, triggering an attack from Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders.Gandhi, while speaking at the concluding rally of the ‘Aishwarya Yatra’, led by the leader of Opposition in the Kerala assembly, Ramesh Chennithala, said he learnt a lot from Kerala and understood a bit about the “wisdom of the people” here.“For the first 15 years, I was a member of Parliament in the north. So I had got used to a different type of politics. And for me, coming to Kerala was very refreshing. Because suddenly I found that people are interested in issues and not just superficially but going into detail in issues,” Gandhi said.Reacting to Gandhi’s remark, BJP president JP Nadda tweeted: “A few days back he was in the North-east, spewing venom against the western part of India. Today in the South he is spewing venom against the North. Divide and rule politics won’t work.”External affairs minister S Jaishankar in a tweet said that “India is one”.“I hail from the South. I am an MP from a Western state. I was born, educated and worked in the North. I represented all of India before the World. India is one. Never run down a region; never divide us,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahuls-remark-triggers-north-south-row-101614118251410.html
24-02-2021||India||Modi calls for home-grown tech solutions||Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) should aim for the next level and transform into indigenous institutes of technology, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Tuesday, stressing the need for home-made innovations that are environment-friendly, durable, and disaster-resilient.Modi, who was addressing the 66th convocation of IIT-Kharagpur in West Bengal online, underscored that India can become a major player in the field of science and technology in the post-pandemic world, asked students of the premier institute to anticipate tomorrow’s problems and come up with the solutions today, and called for an improved ecosystem for start-ups, corporate and the administrative process alike.“The scenario has changed in India in the 21st century. The needs and aspirations of the nation have also changed. Not just Indian Institutes of Technology, IITs must take it to the next level to indigenous institutes of technology,” Modi told students of India’s oldest IIT.He asked students to be patient in their pursuit for research and innovation and asked them not to be demoralised by failures, which he said could “pave the way” for new successes. “The experiments which prove to be successful in this hugely populated country will not fail anywhere in the world. The more our IITs conduct research to overcome the challenges faced by India and come up with solutions, the more they would become mediums of global applications,” Modi said.He cited the February 7 Uttarakhand tragedy caused by a glacier break and urged IIT graduates to develop disaster-resilient infrastructure that can withstand such calamities. “Climate change is a major challenge as natural disasters destroy infrastructure. India drew the attention of the world to the issue of disaster management,” he said.Modi spoke of the need for making available safe, affordable and environment-friendly energy to people through initiatives such as the International Solar Alliance, which he pointed out India introduced to the world. Modi also referred to the global Coalition for Disaster Resilient Infrastructure, which he announced at the UN Climate Action Summit in 2019.He hailed the role played by IITs in developing technologies to battle Covid-19, and stressed that the premier institutes should work fast on finding futuristic solutions to other health care problems.“I am not just talking about gadgets. I am taking about an ecosystem. We have to give solutions to the nation starting from prevention to cure,” he said. Modi appealed to students to focus on what he called “Self 3 — self- awareness, self-confidence and selflessness”.“You should recognise your potential and move forward, move ahead with full confidence, move ahead with selflessness,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-calls-for-home-grown-tech-solutions-101614113449155.html
24-02-2021||India||Draft govt policy seeks 3-tier checks for OTTs||Social media companies may need to appoint officers who will be responsible for complying with content moderation orders, and both they and streaming service providers will be brought under a three-tier regulatory framework, according to proposed new rules that will cover media companies such as Facebook and so-called over the top (OTT) platforms such as Netflix. In addition, shows on these platforms will have to carry ratings such as U (universal) or A (adult) — something they are not required to do currently.In a document running into 30 pages, reviewed by Hindustan Times, the central government has laid down the rules and the framework for regulating both sets of companies, which remain largely unregulated, although some provisions of the Information Technology Act apply to them. The rules, in the process of being finalised, will also apply to digital news media.Countries, including India, have felt the need to regulate social media companies, which, under current rules, are not responsible for content, unlike traditional media firms; there have also been demands to regulate content on OTT platforms, with some shows on these running into trouble for offending religious sentiments.In the document, titled Information Technology (Guidelines for Intermediaries and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021, the government cites powers provided to it under section 87 of the Information Technology Act, 2000. This section allows the government to make rules to carry out the provisions of the law by notification in the Official Gazette and in the Electronic Gazette.The guidelines define social media companies, suggest a three-tier mechanism for regulation of all online media, define the process for tracing the first originator, and confer blocking powers to an inter-ministerial committee that forms the third tier and which will be headed by a joint secretary level officer from the ministry of information and broadcasting.In effect, in addition to the IT ministry, this committee can also recommend blocks or take downs.When asked about the impact of having two authorities to block content, Rahul Matthan, partner at Trilegal said: “Having two (separate) authorities to regulate and having powers to block are unlikely to bring them in conflict with each other. Section 69A has been drafted in specific terms. Essentially you can give 10 people the power to block content as long the reason is clear.”The first tier of the regulatory mechanism is grievance redressal by the company itself; and the second level involves a Press Council of India-like regulatory body that will be headed by a retired judge of a high court or the Supreme Court.The ministry of I&B and electronics and information technology have been working to come up with a comprehensive framework to regulate content and intermediaries. OTT platforms such as Amazon Prime have come under fire for airing content that some claimed “hurt religious sentiments”. Social media companies such as WhatsApp and Twitter, meanwhile, have sparred with the state over an update in usage policy in case of the former, and non-compliance with take down orders in the case of the latter.According to the rules, a significant social media intermediary may be defined on the basis of the number of users for which the government is yet to set a threshold. They also involve intermediaries appointing a chief compliance officer who will be responsible for ensuring compliance with the law and be held liable if the intermediary fails to observe due diligence while discharging its duties.Another provision in the rules is asking social media intermediaries, which operate primarily in the area of messaging, to enable the identification of the first originator — an important requirement in the effort to tackle fake news.The issue is a point of contention for social media companies, but according to Matthan they should be able to identify the first originator using meta-data related to the message. “That will technically not violate end-to-end encryption. Theoretically, it is possible. Telcos at present are obliged to do this for text messages. This essentially concerns traceability.”The rules also say that competent authorities, though an order, may demand pertinent information for the purposes of prevention, detection, investigation, prosecution or punishment of crimes. It, however, excludes the intermediary from having to disclose the content of the personal messages.The rules mandate the creation of a grievance redressal portal as the central repository for receiving and processing all grievances. They ask intermediaries to act on certain kinds of violations within 24 hours, and on all concerns of a complainant within 15 days.The inter-ministerial committee that is at the apex of the regulatory framework will have representatives from the ministries of IT, information and broadcasting, home, law, external affairs, defence, and women and child development.Matthan cautioned that the velocity and volume of complaints that the government may receive are likely to be much higher than expected.“Scale is going to be a challenge,” he said. “There are going to be thousands of complaints. Moreover, take for instance copyright violations; one also has to understand the nuances of the law. An oversight board is not a bad move. For example, whether to take down [former US President Donald] Trump’s tweet should not have been a decision left to Twitter.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/draft-govt-policy-seeks-3-tier-checks-for-otts-101614112169445.html
24-02-2021||India||Mutations of Sars-Cov-2 found in Maharashtra, Kerala samples: Officials||Some mutations of the Sars-Cov-2 that have been worrying scientists globally have arisen in India, according to top officials who said on Tuesday that E484K and N440K changes have been seen in samples taken from some people in Maharashtra and Kerala.The numbers refer to changes in the pathogen’s proteins, which can tweak its structure. At least one of these changes, E484K has been established to reduce the efficacy of vaccines and make immunity from a previous infection ineffective.But officials added that it is yet to be established if these are behind the resurgence in the two states. “There is no direct relation between the recent surge in Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra and some other states where the mutations N440K and E484K [have occurred],” said Dr Balram Bhargava, director general, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), at the weekly media briefing on Covid-19 updates.“…These two virus strains have been detected in other countries too and are not specific to India. Moreover, they have been found earlier in some States in India,” said Bhargava, without giving more details about these strains.Mutations are not unusual and the Sars-Cov-2 was gathering roughly two per month until December when new variants with large number of mutations began to crop up. The South African variant (known as B.1.351) has nine mutations that change its structure, including E484K that occurs in the spike protein, the component of the virus that plays a role in entry into host cells.Also Read | Covid vaccination: People over 60 likely to be allowed to self-registerAccording to Niti Aayog member (health), Dr VK Paul, the two mutations were picked up during routine genomic surveillance of cases. The Indian Sars-Cov-2 Genomic Consortium (INSACOG) has been studying the genomes of a proportion of positive cases. In addition to these, the consortium has confirmed the presence of the UK-linked B.1.1.7 variant and the Brazil-linked P.1 variant.All of these cases have been detected in international travellers. But the ones that have arisen in India were also detected earlier, the officials said. INSACOG was established in December last year as a network of 10 government labs to perform genome sequencing of 5% Covid-19 samples.The effort has gathered pace, and the network of labs has sequenced 3,500 viruses so far among Covid-19 positive samples.Close to 200 (187) UK variants have been picked up, along with six South African variants and one Brazilian variant, Paul said.“When you are doing sequencing, you are not only looking for these variants, but also looking for any abnormal shift or change in the virus’ character. And we must say that effort was going on well before the UK variant entered the country as indigenous effort. These mutations keep occurring in viruses as it is in their nature,” he added.Paul also added that experts were constantly watching the behavior of mutations in the country, and not just the three variants that are now global variants of concerns.Experts agree that there is no cause for concern unless it is established that the mutation is either more transmissible or has the increased capacity to kill.“Mutations in respiratory viruses happen all the time but what is important is to track the behavior of mutated virus to see what it means clinically,” said Dr Shobha Broor, former head, microbiology department, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mutations-found-in-maha-kerala-samples-officials-101614111792759.html
24-02-2021||India||A race against time: Vaccine drive needs boost amid spike||The Union health ministry wrote to states on Tuesday, asking them to expedite the vaccination drive, and announced it has dispatched teams to states where Covid-19 cases are rising, as alarm grows over what looks like the beginning of India’s second wave of infections. The development now underscores more than ever the need to drastically scale up the vaccination process.Data shows that the seven-day average of new cases across India dropped to its lowest on February 11, when it touched 10,988, but it has shown a sustained increase since then to reach 12,971 on Monday – a rise of 18%. This increase is fuelled in particular by Maharashtra, Punjab and Madhya Pradesh, where cases have grown 127%, 55% and 54% respectively.The health ministry wrote to these states and two more, asking them to speed up vaccinations. Experts say it is now a race against time for India to begin a wave of vaccinations that will beat that of infections.To do this, it may need to significantly review its approach, relaxing curbs to allow anyone who wants a dose to take it, let employers purchase in bulk to give to their staff, and allow more private involvement, including open market sales.“R(t) for India again on an upward trajectory crossing unity (1). If India could scale up Covid-19 testing so incredibly well with public-private partnership, why not follow that model for vaccine distribution? Don’t let the virus and its variants outpace the vaccines,” Bhramar Mukherjee, chair of biostatistics at the University of Michigan School of Public Health, said on Tuesday.Also Read | PGIMER to administer second vaccine dose till March 24“In regions such as Maharashtra that are witnessing an increase in the number of cases and its neighbours, we should try to administer at least the first dose of the vaccine to all the people irrespective of age or profession. There is a need for faster immunisation in these areas as it will at least decrease the severity of the disease,” said Dr SK Sarin, director of the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences, who headed the Delhi government’s first committee on controlling and managing Covid-19 infections.Over the last week, India has administered roughly 450,000 doses every day, roughly 52% of the target for each day based on the number of sessions held. For each session, 100 people are expected to get shots — on an average, 8,630 sessions were held daily last week.Officials have said that they expect to accelerate the drive to deliver 5 million doses a day. But, according to the government’s protocol, only those above the age of 50 or 60 will be the first to get doses come next month, when the first of the general public will be covered.“There are various options being explored to involve the private sector as the government is looking at expanding the vaccination drive to reach 27 crore (270 million) people next month. This would mean more private hospitals and nursing homes opening up vaccination centres,” said Dr Randeep Guleria, director, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi.Guleria added that one of the options to consider could also be roping in major employers. “There is a lot of interest from industries with a large number of people working, they could also be involved provided the capacity to vaccinate exists in the organisation,” he added.India began its vaccination campaign on January 16 at a time when the epidemic was receding in the country. This gave the country a unique headway to build up an immune capital and potentially avoid a second wave, which in other countries has wreaked havoc.In the UK, for instance, the second wave began in early December and the country rolled out its vaccination programme around the same time. But the campaign was not fast enough to get ahead of the outbreak, and the country went on to experience its most devastating wave, which peaked three weeks later.Hospitalisations and deaths have now been falling in the country, with officials attributing the improvement to vaccines and a lockdown.In India, another expert said the country will still need to see how the process of vaccinating people in the general population pans out.“The pace has to be picked up obviously and it will depend on factors such as vaccines opening up for general population beyond the essential services; and how many more Indian vaccines get regulatory approvals so that more cost-effective options open up,” said Dr K Srinath Reddy, founder, Public Health Foundation of India, while adding that the country may need to wait till April-May when there will be more vaccines approved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-race-against-time-vaccine-drive-needs-boost-amid-spike-101614111169431.html
24-02-2021||India||‘Honoured to serve Gujarat’: Modi after civic polls sweep||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Tuesday swept six key municipal corporations in Gujarat, decimating the Congress in civic body polls in the home state of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah, shrugging aside perceived anti-incumbency.The BJP has bagged 489 seats from a total of 576, as many as 100 more than the 389 seats it won out of 572 in the 2015 elections to the municipal corporations of Ahmedabad, Jamnagar, Bhavnagar, Surat, Rajkot and Vadodara.The eclipse of the Congress in Gujarat that started in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections continued at the local level with the party winning an apologetic 45 seats vis-a-vis as many as 174 in the previous elections.Except in Ahmedabad, where it won 15 seats against 165 for the BJP out of a total of 192 seats with three results yet to come in, and Jamnagar where the party managed 11 seats to BJP’s 50 in a 65-member house, the Congress won seats only in single digits and scored a zero in Surat.The opposition party won eight in Bhavnagar vis-a-vis 44 for the BJP out of a total of 52, followed by seven in Vadodara against 69 for the BJP (out of a total of 76 seats) and four seats in Rajkot ,where the BJP won 68 seats (total 72).In Surat, the BJP won 93 seats, the AAP opened its account with 27 seats and the Congress won none in a 120-member civic body.The Congress had won 36 seats in Surat during the 2015 elections.Elated by the results, Prime Minister Modi tweeted: “Thank you Gujarat! Results of municipal elections across the state clearly show the unwavering faith people have towards politics of development and good governance. Grateful to the people of the state for trusting BJP yet again. Always an honour to serve Gujarat.”Chief minister Vijay Rupani, who is recovering from Covid-19, said: “The election results have demonstrated that anti-incumbency doesn’t apply to Gujarat.” The two-phase local body polls in the state are being considered a precursor to the 2022 assembly elections.The All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM) of Asaduddin Owaisi, which also walked into Congress strongholds, managed to win seven seats in Ahmedabad city while the Bahujan Samaj Party sprang a surprise by winning three in Jamnagar.Reacting to the results, Gujarat Congress President Amit Chavda tweeted: “We may have lost the elections in terms of numbers, but our party workers would still go among the people with more energy. We thank the people.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/honoured-to-serve-gujarat-modi-after-civic-polls-sweep-101614108852323.html
24-02-2021||India||‘Sketchy evidence’: Disha granted bail||A Delhi court on Tuesday granted bail to climate activist Disha Ravi, saying there was “scanty” and “sketchy” evidence to back charges of sedition against her and asserting that citizens couldn’t be jailed simply because they disagreed with government policies.Additional sessions judge Dharmender Rana released the 22-year-old activist on a personal bond of ₹1 lakh and two sureties of similar amounts, roughly 10 days after she was arrested by Delhi Police in Bengaluru for allegedly editing a social media document, or toolkit, about the ongoing farmer protest against three central laws.The judge held that Ravi had no connection with pro-Khalistani organisations, Poetic Justice Foundation (PJF) and Sikhs for Justice, and that there was not an “iota” of evidence linking her to the violence that rocked Delhi on Republic Day.Also Read | Tears and smiles as Ravi walks gets bail“Considering the scanty and sketchy evidence available on record, I do not find any palpable reasons to breach the general rule of bail against a 22 year old young lady, with absolutely blemish free criminal antecedents and having firms firm roots in the society, and send her to jail,” the judge said.The court also said the call for any kind of violence was conspicuously absent from the toolkit, and no evidence was on record to suggest Ravi subscribed to secessionist ideas. Activists have repeatedly said the toolkit is an innocuous document used by social media campaigns for strategy and planning.“In my considered opinion, citizens are conscience keepers of government in any democratic nation. They cannot be put behind the bars simply because they choose to disagree with the state policies. The offence of sedition cannot be invoked to minister to the wounded vanity of the government,” the court held in its 14-page order.The court said difference of opinion, disagreement, divergence, dissent, or for that matter, even disapprobation, are recognised legitimate tools to infuse objectivity in state policies. “An aware and assertive citizenry, in contradistinction with an indifferent or docile citizenry, is indisputably a sign of a healthy and vibrant democracy,” the order said.As the order was read out, a visibly elated Ravi had tears in her eyes. She shook hands with two relatives in court. She was released from Tihar jail late at night. In Bengaluru, her family and friends hailed the news. “I’m feeling a sense of relief, and I’m very happy. The trust I had in the judiciary of our country has increased,” said Manjula, her mother.Ravi, a part of the Indian wing of Fridays for Future, a global climate change movement founded by Swedish teen climate activist Greta Thunberg, was arrested on February 13 and charged with sedition, criminal conspiracy and inciting to riot. Police said Ravi, along with two other activists, created the toolkit to spread misinformation and incite unrest as part of a global conspiracy. The arrest triggered widespread outrage.On Tuesday, the court rejected the police’s argument and said it couldn’t be presumed on “surmises or conjectures” that Ravi supported secessionist tendencies or violence, simply because she shared a platform with people who gathered to oppose the farm laws.“The right to dissent is firmly enshrined under Article 19 of the Constitution. In my considered opinion, the freedom of speech and expression includes the right to seek a global audience. There are no geographical barriers on communication. A citizen has the fundamental rights to use the best means of imparting and receiving communication, as long as the same is permissible under the four corners of law and as such have access to audience abroad,” the court said.The court directed Ravi to continue to cooperate with ongoing investigations, join the probe as and when summoned by the investigating officer and not leave the country without the permission of the court.The judge said the creation of a WhatsApp group or editing a toolkit was not an offence. “Further, since the link with the said toolkit or PJF has not been found to be objectionable, mere deletion of the WhatsApp chat to destroy the evidence linking her with the toolkit and PJF, also becomes meaningless,” the court said.The court held the January 26 tractor rally was permitted by Delhi Police and therefore there was nothing wrong in co-accused Shantanu Muluk, a Pune-based engineer, in reaching Delhi to attend the event. Muluk, and another accused, Mumbai-based lawyer Nikita Jacob, are out on pre-arrest bail.The court said Ravi was interrogated by Delhi Police’s Special Cell for five days and placing any further restraint on her liberty on the basis of general accusation would neither be logical nor legal. The judge also cited passages from the Rig Veda and said the Indian civilization was never averse to diverse ideas.“This 5,000-year-old civilisation of ours has never been averse to ideas from varied quarters. Even our founding father accorded due respect to the divergence of opinion by recognising the freedom of speech and expression as an inviolable fundamental right,” the court said.The court said except for a bare assertion, no evidence was brought on record to support the contention that any violence took place at any Indian embassy after the alleged “sinister designs” of the accused and co-accused.Talking about the toolkit, which the police said was part of a global conspiracy to defame India, the judge said he was shown two hyperlinks with links to two websites where he couldn’t find anything objectionable. He also rejected the public prosecutor’s argument that the material in the second website was “seditious” in nature.“The imputations maybe false, exaggerated or even with a mischievous intent but the same cannot be sitgmatised being seditious unless they have tendency to foment violence,” the judge said.He also said that the police are in the process of collecting more evidence and so they cannot be allowed to further “restrict the liberty of a citizen on the basis of propitious anticipations”.The court noted the submission of additional solicitor general SV Raju for the police that more than 100 persons allegedly involved in the violence were arrested and interrogated by Delhi Police but no evidence was found linking Ravi to the clashes.Activists called the order historic. “It is a historic and constitutional moment ...this is the way the judiciary is supposed to work,” environmental activist Leo Saldanha said.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sketchy-evidence-disha-granted-bail-101614108332990.html
24-02-2021||India||Rakesh Tikait holds out threat of Parliament siege if farm laws are not repealed||Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait on Tuesday warned that farmers would gherao Parliament if the Centre does not repeal the three contentious farm laws."The government is not ready to listen and has decided to rob the farmers. This time, we will gherao the Parliament. We will announce it and then march towards Delhi. This time there will be 40 lakh tractors instead of four lakh tractors,” he said while addressing meetings of farmers in Churu and Sikar districts of Rajasthan.The Budget session of Parliament which began on January 29 is currently on recess till March 7. The session ends on April 8.Tikait alleged that corporates had prepared warehouses to store grains even before the farm laws were passed.“This indicates the connivance of big businessmen with the government. There is no mention of MPS in these laws. The big corporate will store the produce of farmers in warehouses and will sell them at higher prices,” Tikait said.The farmer leader said that Rajasthan is land of fighters. “This state has a history of fighters like the late Chaudhary Kumbharam Arya who had fought against anarchy in the past. The famers of the state have fought against discrimination and big agitations have taken place in this state,” Tikat said.He added, “Rajasthan has different caste equations but in order to succeed they have to give birth to a new caste that is farmers. During every farmers' meeting we should not talk about two things; one is politics and another is caste. All the farmers are one and united.”He said that the farm laws are equally dangerous for both farmers and consumers.“Not only farmers and the poor, but every person should become a part of this fight. Every youth should connect with us because this is a battle for our land which the government wants to give it to big corporations through contract farming and other modes. The market and mandis which were open for everybody will be closed because of the farm laws,” Tikait said.He said that the framers of the state will go to Gujarat, West Bengal, Jharkhand and every part of the country because farmers are suffering everywhere.“Farmers will continue to fight irrespective of the weather. We will fight in the cold and in extreme hot conditions. It will continue unless a new law on MSP is made and the three farm laws are rolled back.”Reacting to the allegation of Tikat, chief spokesperson of the BJP unit in Rajasthan, Ramlal Sharma said, “In a democracy everybody has the right to speak and register their protest. Tikait and other opposition parties are misguiding the farmers. They should speak the truth and they should be afraid of god. These farm laws are in the favour of farmers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rakesh-tikait-holds-out-threat-of-parliament-siege-if-farm-laws-are-not-repealed-101614104642444.html
24-02-2021||India||Tears and smiles as Ravi makes bail after 10 days||Eight days ago, 22-year-old climate activist Disha Ravi, arrested in connection with the Toolkit case, broke down when she was first produced by the Delhi police in the Patiala House Court. On Tuesday, when a Delhi court granted her bail, the sheer relief brought tears in her eyes.Elated at the court order, Ravi had tears in her eyes as her lawyers ran from one court to another to complete the formalities of her release. Soon after she was produced before Chief Metropolitan Magistrate (CMM) Pankaj Sharma, at the end of her one day police custody, she broke down while meeting one of her relatives.She also shook hands with one of her two relatives present in the court after being granted bail.The Bengaluru activist was arrested on February 13 for her alleged role in creating, editing and dissemination of the toolkit document, which the police claimed was aimed at inciting unrest during the ongoing protests by farmers against the three new farm laws passed in September last year.Dressed in a green top and grey shrug, and her face covered with a black mask with the colours of LGBT, Ravi looked calmer than the first two hearings.During her second production before Metropolitan Magistrate Akash Jain on February 19, Ravi looked anxious with heavy media presence and the crowd in the court premises.On Tuesday, soon after she was granted bail, she refused to say anything when asked her reaction. Two of her relatives, who were present in the court, also avoided questions.Ravi was brought to the court amid high security where the police, represented by Public Prosecutor (PP) Vikas Singh, sought four days custody to confront her with the two other co-accused Mumbai lawyer Nikita Jacob and Pune engineer Shantanu Muluk.However, as the police asked the custodial remand, Ravi’s counsel Abhinav Sekhri informed the judge that she has been granted bail by the sessions court.CMM Pankaj Sharma disposed of the police’s application noting that the bail has already been given by a superior court.Ravi remained in the court for some time after which was taken away by the jail police to complete the process of her release.She was released from Tihar on Tuesday night. “Disha was released after jail authorities completed all formalities regarding her release,” PTI quoted a jail official as saying.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tears-and-smiles-as-ravi-walks-gets-bail-101614104202670.html
24-02-2021||India||Cong may focus on MSMEs before TN, Bengal polls||With assembly elections coming up in West Bengal and Tamil Nadu, the Congress’s campaign is likely to increasingly focusing on issues related to the micro, small and medium enterprises sector, which forms the backbone of India’s manufacturing industries, according to Congress leaders.In January and February, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi’s public engagements — both virtual and in the field —have been dominated by concerns for the MSME sector. He tweeted about MSMEs at least four times during this period, spoke about problems plaguing the sector on at least three occasions, interacted with people from the sector, and wrote letters to Union ministers over issues of the sector that contributed 30.3% of India’s GDP in 2018-19.Congress strategists argue that Gandhi’s pitch for faceless industrial units of MSME auger well with the party’s criticism of what it calls as “Hum Do, Hamare Ek” policies of the government. “We stand for millions of small industries, while the government seems to care about only the big industrialists,” a senior Congress strategist said on condition of anonymity. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had criticised the remark made by Gandhi in Parliament, saying he was becoming “doomsday man” for India.Also Read | Rahul’s remark triggers ‘north-south’ rowThe party sees the MSME sector as a key plank in at least two poll-bound states: Tamil Nadu and West Bengal. Tamil Nadu accounts for 15% of India’s MSME units with an investment of ₹32,000 crore. About one in five industries in the southern state are MSME. In West Bengal, the sector employs nearly 11 million people, according to official data.Gandhi has already visited Tiruppur, the textile hub of India and exclusively interacted with the workers. Mohan Kumaramangalam, working president of the Tamil Nadu unit of Congress, said: “Demonetisation and GST badly hit the sector. Our own estimates say that a large number of them are on the verge of shutting down or have already closed their units.”So, when Mohan asked Gandhi to take up the issue of steep increase of the price of yarn, Gandhi promptly wrote to textile minister Smriti Irani, appealing for “all possible support to our brothers and sisters in the apparel sector to help them compete effectively in the global markets”.Congress officials said MSME is set to be a key agenda in their poll campaign in this round of elections. “We may announce sops for the sector if we come to power and in our campaign, we will definitely talk about how the BJP government has not given any help to the MSMEs,” said a second senior leader involved in the poll strategies.A government report showed last year that 55% of MSMEs continued to face liquidity crunch at least till August 1, 2020 and only 26% of the MSMEs were utilising more than 50% of their production capacity due to reasons including lack of fresh orders and logistics issues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-may-focus-on-msmes-before-tn-bengal-polls-101614102700560.html
24-02-2021||India||MoD clears defence buys worth ₹13,700 cr, including 118 Arjun Mk-1A tanks||The defence ministry on Tuesday cleared domestic military purchases worth ₹13,700 crore, including the army’s proposals to buy 118 Arjun Mk-1A main battle tanks and equipping armoured fighting vehicles (AFVs) with modern protection and countermeasure systems, officials familiar with the developments said.While the new tanks will cost ₹8,380 crore, the protection systems for the army’s fleet of more than 3,000 AFVs (tanks and infantry combat vehicles) will cost ₹5,300 crore, the officials said. The order for the tanks could be placed with the Ordnance Factory Board (OFB) this year, with five tanks to be delivered within 30 months of the signing of the contract, Hindustan Times has learnt. This will be followed by 30 tanks being delivered every year.The Defence Acquisition Council (DAC) - India’s apex procurement body – on Tuesday accorded its acceptance of necessity (AoN) for buying the tanks and the AFV protection systems to provide a push to the government’s Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan (self-reliant India campaign). Defence minister Rajnath Singh chaired the DAC meeting.“Three AoNs for an overall cost of ₹13,700 crore were accorded. All these AoNs are in the highest priority category of defence acquisition…These (systems) will be indigenously designed, developed and manufactured,” the ministry said in a statement, without naming the proposals approved.The proposals cleared by the DAC include 293 Nag anti-tank missiles developed by DRDO, 13 modified ICVs (called the Nag missile carrier or Namica), eight medium power radars called Arudra and practice ammunition for T-90 and T-72 tanks, officials said.The Arjun Mk-1A is an upgraded version of the Arjun Mk-1 currently in army service. The new tank will come with 71 upgrades over the existing variant including 14 major improvements, said one of the officials cited above. The upgrades significantly improve the tank’s lethality, mobility and survivability, he said.The improvements on the new tank include better firepower, auto target tracker, remote-controlled weapon system, explosive reactive armour, advanced laser warning and countermeasure systems, containerized ammunition bin, advanced land navigation systems and improved night vision capabilities.“The precise target tracking of the tank ensures accurate engagement during day and night in both static and dynamic conditions,” the official said.The Defence Research and Development Organisation’s Chennai-based Combat Vehicles Research and Development Establishment (CVRDE) has designed and developed the tank. The tanks will be manufactured at the OFB’s Heavy Vehicles Factory at Avadi, outside Chennai.Prime Minister Narendra Modi handed over a prototype of the Arjun Mk-1A tank to army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane in Chennai on February 14, in a clear indication that the order for the 118 tanks was in the pipeline. The prototype was tested for more than 6,000 km across the country’s western sector, followed by another 1,500 km of rigorous testing, HT has learnt.More than 200 companies will be involved in the project, which is expected to generate around 8,000 jobs, said a second official. The army’s existing tank fleet consists of T-90, T-72 and the Arjun Mk-1 tanks.Protection and countermeasure systems for its AFVs have been a long-standing demand of the army. The systems will enhance the survivability of AFVs by equipping them with the capability to overcome threats from missiles, rocket-propelled grenades and tank ammunition, said a third official.Experts said the new tanks and AFV upgrades would boost the fighting potential of the army.“It’s a big leap forward and has been pending for a long time. It will improve the strike capability of the army’s armoured formations. I also see it as a very potent step in the direction of achieving self-reliance in the defence sector,” said former Northern Army commander Lieutenant General BS Jaswal (retd).But some experts flagged concerns about the bulky tank, saying its weight (68 tonnes) would limit the army’s deployment options.The defence ministry said that the DAC was of the view that capital acquisition contracts - other than design and development cases - should be concluded in two years. “The ministry, in consultation with the services and all stakeholders, will come up with a detailed plan of action for achieving the same,” the statement said.Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Monday said the ministry would try to conclude contracts in two years as against the current average period of up to four years.Meanwhile, Bharat Forge on Tuesday announced that it received a ₹178-crore order from the army for its M4 vehicles under the emergency procurement route. The highly mobile vehicles, which provide protection against mines and improvised explosive devices, underwent trails in the Ladakh sector recently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mod-clears-defence-buys-worth-rs-13-700-cr-including-118-arjun-mk-1a-tanks-101614091988608.html
24-02-2021||India||India allows use of airspace by Pakistan PM Imran Khan's special aircraft||India allowed Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan's special aircraft to use the country’s airspace while flying to Sri Lanka on Tuesday, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity.Khan flew to Sri Lanka in a Pakistan Air Force jet for a two-day visit. This is Khan’s maiden visit to the island nation after becoming prime minister in 2018 and he was accompanied by foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi.After leaving Pakistani airspace, the jet flew along India’s coastline and over the Lakshadweep archipelago before landing in Colombo. Pakistan’s request for the special flight to use Indian airspace was made more than a week ago and the permission was granted on Monday, the people cited above said on condition of anonymity.India’s decision to allow the special flight to use its airspace was in marked contrast to Pakistan’s actions in 2019, when Islamabad denied permission for the use of Pakistani airspace by three Indian VVIP flights. At the time, ties between the two sides were at a low following the standoff triggered by the Pulwama suicide attack and the scrapping of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status.In September 2019, Pakistan did not permit the use of its airspace by a special flight carrying President Ram Nath Kovind to Europe on an official visit, and another flight in which Prime Minister Narendra Modi travelled to the US to attend the UN General Assembly. Pakistani also did not allow the use of its airspace by another VVIP flight during Modi’s visit to Saudi Arabia in October 2019.India subsequently took up the issue with the International Civil Aviation Organization, the UN’s aviation body, which sought a clarification from Pakistan.Khan, the first head of government to visit Sri Lanka after the Covid-19 outbreak, is set to hold talks with his counterpart Mahinda Rajapaksa, President Gotabaya Rajapaksa and foreign minister Dinesh Gunawardena and address a business and investment forum. The two countries are also expected to sign several agreements during the visit.However, the Sri Lankan side cancelled an address to the Parliament by Khan over concerns that he could raise the Kashmir issue. The Pakistani side had made a request for an address to the Parliament by Khan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-allows-use-of-airspace-by-pakistan-pm-imran-khan-s-special-aircraft-101614089417503.html
24-02-2021||India||Terrorism one of the gravest threats to humankind: Jaishankar||Terrorism remains one of the “gravest threats to humankind” and constitutes a severe challenge to the global human rights agenda, external affairs minister S Jaishankar said on Tuesday in the first-ever address to the UN Human Rights Council by an Indian foreign minister.In his virtual address to the high-level segment of the 46th session of the UN Human Rights Council, Jaishankar called for a coordinated global response to the challenges confronting the human rights agenda, including terrorism, global inequities and armed conflicts.The Covid-19 pandemic has complicated the situation in many regions and there is a need for countries to come together to overcome these challenges, he said. He also called for the reform of multilateral institutions and mechanisms so that they can effectively deal with these challenges.Also Read | UN chief voices appreciation for India’s leadership in fight against Covid-19“Terrorism continues to be one of the gravest threats to humankind. It is a crime against humanity and violates the most fundamental human right – namely, the right to life. As a long-standing victim, India has been in the forefront of the global action against terrorism,” Jaishankar said.“This is possible only when there is a clear realisation, including in bodies dealing with human rights, that terrorism can never be justified, nor its perpetrators ever equated with its victims,” he said.India, Jaishankar noted, had presented to the UN Security Council last month an eight-point action plan to deal with terrorism, and the country will continue to work with members of the Security Council and other states to ensure the implementation of this plan.India’s commitment to protecting basic human rights is also reflected in its strategy to deal with Covid-19 both at home and abroad, he said. “By giving direct food support to 800 million Indians and financial support to 400 million, many of them women, we ensured that basic needs were very effectively addressed even during the lockdown. And as we addressed the health front at home, we responded to the world in equal measure,” he said.Noting that India provided medicines and equipment to more than 150 countries amid the pandemic, Jaishankar said: “In the same spirit, India has pledged to use its vaccine manufacturing capacity to make vaccines accessible and affordable to all. From Bangladesh to Brazil and from Morocco to Fiji, the pharmacy of the world is today supplying millions of vaccine doses to more than 70 countries.”Jaishankar also referred to the Indian government’s steps aimed at economic and social development in line with the vision of “Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas, Sabka Vishwas”, or “working together for inclusive development for all and securing the trust of all”.These initiatives include the largest financial inclusion scheme covering 417 million Indians, free health insurance coverage for 500 million, provision of 150 million homes to the underprivileged, loans at concessional rates to 140 million Indians to promote entrepreneurship, and 50 million free gas connections to women from rural households.India is committed to take all steps to ensure the “fullest enjoyment of basic human rights of our people, including inclusive and sustainable development”, he said. “India is building a better and fairer society at home; it is also contributing to a better and fairer world,” he added.In an apparent riposte to recent criticism of the government’s handling of the farmers’ protest and the situation in Jammu and Kashmir, Jaishankar said India believes “violation of and gaps in implementation of human rights should be addressed in a fair and just manner, with objectivity, non-selectivity, transparency and with due respect to the principles of non-interference in internal affairs and national sovereignty”.India’s approach to the UN Human Rights Council is guided by a spirit of engagement, dialogue and consultation and the country believes there should be equal emphasis on promotion and protection of human rights. “Both are best pursued through dialogue, consultation and cooperation amongst states as well as technical assistance and capacity building,” Jaishankar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/terrorism-one-of-the-gravest-threats-to-humankind-jaishankar-101614079117994.html
24-02-2021||India||Chhattisgarh: Peace panel formed for dialogue with Maoists and the state||Activists, journalists and social workers constituted a peace committee to initiate dialogue between Maoists and the government with the objective of attaining lasting peace in Maoist-affected regions of Chhattisgarh.The committee named Concerned Citizens' Committee of Chhattisgarh (4Cs), comprises 11 members who will lead the negotiations with the state and the Maoists, while bringing them on a common platform.Former Union minister Arvind Netam, former chairperson of the SC/ST Commission Nandkumar Sai, leader of Sarv Adivasi Samaj B S Rawte, Communist Party of India (CPI) leader in Bastar, Manish Kunjam, journalists Diwakar Muktibodh, Kamal Shukla, social worker Virendra Pandey, social worker Indu Netam, writer irish Pankaj, and state secretary CPI RDCP Rao are panel members.Peace activist Shubhranshu Chaudhary has been made the convenor of the committee, a per a press note issued on Tuesday.“We are copying the 3Cs (Concerned Citizens' Committee) model of Andhra which succeeded in bringing both sides to table but failed in getting any results. We are trying to learn from their mistakes. One of the major criticisms was that the panel had no representation from ‘adivasi’ community or from the affected communities,” said Chaudhary, adding that the committee will be a channel of communication between both the sides.The committee currently has less representation of women which we will be very keen to repair soon, he said.The committee will start meetings soon and will form district committees in each violence-affected district of the state.The committee decided to hold several mass programs seeking dialogue and peace from both sides in the months to come with Sarv Adivasi Samaj taking the lead.“Congress manifesto in 2018 said ‘a policy will be drafted to take on the menace of Naxalism and serious steps will be taken for talks’. I think the current state government needs to be reminded of this and the Maoist leaders must realise that a negotiated settlement demanding full implementation of pro Adivasi laws in Indian constitution is in the best interest of the community they claim to represent and the current phase of their movement,” said Chaudhary.In a press note issued by the committee after the meeting on Monday stated that the political violence in the southern part of Chhattisgarh was the focal point of the event.“One assessment of the participants indicated toward the changing dynamics in the Bastar region and within the Left Wing Extremism (LWE) congregations. It was observed that the leadership within the LWE congregation has been debilitating and deteriorating with time. For the moment, the situation could be conceived as a watershed in the Naxalite movement where a large chunk of the congregation wants to move out of the clutches of the exploitation by the Maoist organisation in general and leadership in particular,” the press release stated.“Such movements have to involve the state and its principles at various junctures and state must also reciprocate to such formations duly and in all sincerity,” Netam said about the panel’s chances of success.Also Read: Video of jail guard assaulting Chhattisgarh doctor goes viral, doctors on strikeA senior Chhattisgarh police officer, who did not wish to be named, said the formation of the peace committee was a welcome step.“In the recent years, the three pronged strategy of ‘Vishwas’ (trust), ‘Vikas’ (development), ‘Suraksha’ (security) by the security forces is yielding positive results in tackling the left wing extremism. The objective of the local police and the security forces is to bring down the violence and establish peace and order in the region. Any initiative from civil society in this direction would strengthen the resolve of security forces in this regard. The surrender and rehabilitation policy of the government also encourages the Maoist cadres to shun violence and join the national mainstream. But any formal decision with regard to holding talks with Maoists would be taken by senior functionaries of the government,” the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-peace-panel-formed-for-dialogue-with-maoists-and-the-state-101614075584924.html
24-02-2021||India||Covid vaccination: People over 60 likely to be allowed to self-register||People aged above 60 and those with comorbidities will be allowed to self-register and choose where they can be vaccinated for Covid-19 from March 1, an official familiar with the matter said as the government is working to speed up the second phase of the vaccination process.The upgraded mobile application designed for the vaccination drive will also allow the users, who are travelling, to pick a different centre if needed for the second dose.HT on Monday reported that the government is planning to take the rate of coronavirus vaccinations to 5 million a day in the next four to six weeks. This could include doubling the number of daily vaccinations at a particular location to 200. The move is meant to speed up the process when the next and the largest cohort of recipients — members of the general public who are at greater risk due to their age and existing illnesses — begin to be covered.Also Read | Covaxin phase 3 efficacy data likely out in two weeks: Bharat BiotechThe second phase of the vaccination will also include armed forces and police personnel. The government had earlier decided that people over 50 would be allowed to register. But it has since decided to prioritise those over 60 as they are at a greater risk.“The government wants to prioritise those at risk, so first those over 60 will be allowed to register,” said an official. “There is a pool of around 20 crore [200 million] individuals.”The official added the Aadhaar will not be mandatory for registration. “People can use any ID to register. They just have to make sure that they carry the same proof when they go for vaccination.”Vaccination certificates will be made available across government platforms such as Co-WIN and DigiLocker. The option to register on contact tracing app Aarogya Setu is also likely as the platforms will be integrated, according to an internal note circulated on Co-WIN.The official added that the application would soon start providing real-time updates, including the number of people vaccinated daily. “The government is also considering whether or not private hospitals offering the vaccination should be shown on the application...that way, the user will have more options,” the official said. “Users will also be able to choose the vaccination slot that they want.”The official added up to five members from one family can register on one account and get vaccinated together.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-vaccination-people-over-60-likely-to-be-allowed-to-selfregister-101614056735042.html
24-02-2021||India||Covid-19 vaccine tracker||||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-vaccine-tracker-101614046458330.html
24-02-2021||India||Disclosure of interest in info sought under RTI not ‘necessary’ but ‘important’||The Delhi high court has modified its earlier order to state that disclosure of applicant’s interest in the information sought under the Right to Information (RTI) Act is “necessary” only when personal information is sought.On Friday (Jan 30), justice Prathiba Singh modified her earlier order of Jan 12 where it had said that the reason for disclosure of applicant’s interest is “necessary” to establish his or her bonafide.On January 12, the judge had said that whenever information is sought under the 'Right To Information Act, 2005', the disclosure of applicant's interest in the information being sought would be necessary to establish his or her bonafides.The court had passed the order while dismissing the plea of a man who had sought details of the persons appointed at the President’s secretariat for the post of Multi-Tasking Staff. The judge had said that the petitioner had “cleverly” concealed the information from the court that he had filed the plea because his daughter had been unsuccessful in this selection process.The court also imposed a cost of ₹25,000 on the petitioner for hiding the facts while also noting that disclosing details of the appointed staff will be a complete invasion of their privacy.On Friday, the court issued a corrigendum and said, “There is an inadvertent omission in Para 12 of Jan 12 order.”"This Court is of the opinion that whenever personal information is sought under the RTI Act, disclosure of an interest in the said information sought would be necessary to establish the bonafides of the applicant. Non- disclosure of the same could result in injustice to several other affected persons, whose personal information is sought, " the court said.The plea by the man through his counsel had sought information from the President Secretariat about the candidates who had appeared, who successfully cleared the exam etc for the recruitment of multitasking staff.Advocate Anurag Ahluwalia, Central government’s standing counsel, had told the court that while five of the six information sought were provided to the man, the last one, with respect to the phone numbers, names and residential addresses of the successful candidates was not given because that would infringe with their privacy.(This report, first published on January 30, has been updated to accurately reflect the order of the High Court of Delhi)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/disclosure-of-interest-in-info-sought-under-rti-not-necessary-but-important-101611995870133.html
24-02-2021||Today's||The disruptive social effects of Hindutva 2.0||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s victory in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections was a result of the transformation of three crucial Ms in Indian politics: Mandal, Mandir and Markets.Almost two years later, the BJP seems to be sticking to the script, but its tactical manoeuvres, even though they have delivered in elections, are beginning to show their disruptive side effects, with the possibility of unrest. Three seemingly disparate events over the past week highlight this trend.First, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, while campaigning in Assam, said that a Congress government, if elected, would not let the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) be implemented in Assam. Gandhi was silent on the National Register of Citizens (NRC). Politically, this makes sense. Assam has had a long and bloody ethnic conflict, which was rooted in Ahoms — the indigenous landed elite — protesting against the large-scale influx of Bengalis in the state. Decades of negotiations and judicial processes ultimately culminated in the decision to update NRC, which was aimed at detecting illegal migrants in the state. Because a large number of Bengalis in Assam — migrants or not — happen to be Muslims, it suited the BJP to appropriate the demand for NRC.However, the outcome of the NRC process, which is reported to have excluded a large number of Hindu Bengalis, who are current and potential supporters of the BJP, created a challenge. This forced the BJP into rolling out CAA, a law which provides for granting of retrospective citizenship rights to non-Muslims from India’s neighbouring countries. If a large number of Bengali Hindus were to gain from the CAA route, it would leave the Ahoms with a feeling of betrayal, for they oppose immigrants, irrespective of religion. This is the constituency the Congress is seeking to tap, and the BJP is now seeking to reassure by putting CAA on hold. Second, an Economic Times report said that the Justice Rohini Commission, examining the reorganisation of reservations for Other Backward Classes (OBCs), is likely to propose a segregation of the existing 27% reservations into four bands of two, six, nine and 10%. Immediately after that, Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar demanded that a caste census be conducted in the country. The BJP’s success in the Hindi belt, especially Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, can be attributed to building a rainbow Hindu collation of upper castes and non-dominant OBCs. By championing a narrative that the politically dominant OBCs had usurped most of the benefits of reservation and that the Narendra Modi government will correct this historic injustice by creating sub-categories within OBC quota, the BJP aims to consolidate its base and marginalise traditional Mandal parties such as the Samajwadi Party and the Rashtriya Janata Dal.But this approach has the potential to trigger an adverse side-effect. India does not have sub-caste wise population data. This means that whether or not the new categories of OBC reservation do justice to demographic weights of sub-castes will remain in the realm of speculation. This will create a fertile ground for disputes among various sub-castes who could perceive the new formula as an effective reduction in reservations. There is another possibility, linked to the demand of conducting a caste census, which can create an even bigger challenge. If a caste census shows that the actual population share of communities which are eligible for reservations exceeds 49.5%, there may well be demands to do away with the 50% cap on reservations — which has, in any case, been breached in recent times. Both of these have the potential to create large-scale social unrest. And finally, facing a backlash in the traditional green revolution belt of Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh (UP), and after having performed badly in the local body polls in Punjab, the BJP has begun an outreach programme among Jats. The community supported the BJP in the 2014 and 2017 elections in UP.In one such outreach event at Soram village of Muzaffarnagar, violence erupted between the supporters of Cabinet minister and the BJP’s important Jat leader, Sanjeev Balyan, and local residents. Earlier, farm protest leaders have issued calls for social boycott of BJP leaders and collective punishment for those who fail to comply with these diktats. Given the maximalist positions which the protesting farmers have taken, such altercations are likely to increase. And since the BJP enjoys power in Haryana and UP, the possibility of the landed elite in these regions seeing the State as an agent of persecution cannot be ruled out. None of these implies that the BJP will suffer electorally. It has a solid social coalition and is pitted against an emaciated opposition. However, it is exactly this electoral hegemony of the BJP which can deepen the sense of persecution/betrayal among those who feel short-changed by the side effects of Hindutva 2.0 strategy the BJP has unleashed. India’s history tells us that failure to seek grievance redressal through elections can push social groups into pursuing other methods, not all of which have subscribed to laws of the land. The BJP’s political dominance may, paradoxically in some ways, deepen social divisions. roshan.k@htlive.comThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-disruptive-social-effects-of-hindutva-20-101614181250159.html
24-02-2021||Today's||The Brahmaputra is in danger. Delhi and Dhaka must challenge Beijing||In recent weeks, reports of China’s plans to build the world’s largest dam project in the greatest gorge on the face of the earth has shaken many of us. For this is the heart of the river which we know as the Brahmaputra. It has flowed unimpeded for millennia, carving and clawing its way through rock, sand and ice, as the Yarlung-Tsangpo, through the Tibetan plateau and meadow, before rushing through the hidden gorge and entering India at the village of Gelling in Arunachal Pradesh.The Chinese had earlier planned to build a series of 11 dams on the river, of which several are complete. Most of these were cascade dams without pondage or reservoirs but used the fall of the river to maximise the gravitational surge of power through the turbines. China’s hydro engineers and political and economic establishment have now set their eyes on the heart of the river in the Namcha Barwa gorge, where it gathers its phenomenal pace and power on its way to Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Bangladesh and eventually the Bay of Bengal.While infrastructure building is not a new development on either side of Himalayas, there has been a huge push on the Chinese side with a surge of roads, railroads, bridges, tunnels and power plants. What is the impact of noise and dynamite blasting, excavators and heavy drills on such sensitive ecosystems? Trains thunder through once silent gorges and valleys where only the chants of monks or rumble of occasional trucks, or the gurgle of the flood in summer and the cries of birds would pierce the air. But there are limits to the knowledge of engineers. We also do not know of any assessments by either Chinese or independent experts on the damage to permafrost, the vast volume of water trapped in ice form below the earth’s surface. Thawing permafrost alters natural ecosystem; makes soil vulnerable to landslides and erosion; introduces new sediment to waterways, which may alter the flow of rivers and streams; degrades water quality; impacts human life, livelihoods, and aquatic wildlife; and introduces new threats of ancient microbes.India says that issues of trans-border rivers with China are discussed through “an institutionalised expert-level mechanism which was established in 2000” as well as through “diplomatic channels”. Does exchange of data contain the impact of these huge interventions? India and Bangladesh, which is also enriched by the Brahmaputra, must take up the issue robustly.China’s decision represents a strike at the heart of a sacred and ancient land and tampering with forces we do not fully comprehend. The recent disaster in Uttarakhand is testimony to our limited knowledge. To Assam, the Brahmaputra is folklore and legend, home to a myriad of communities, cultures and faiths, the endangered Gangetic dolphins and the great balladeer Bhupen Hazarika. It is sacred to the Buddhists and it has its origins near Mount Kailash. The gods do not wish to be disturbed; they want respect.These massive interventions are an invitation to disaster downstream. Of course, we need power and energy. But dams clean the waters of nutrients; the water to enter the turbines must be wiped clean of all sand, rocks and sediment to produce hydro-electricity. Yet, it is this sediment which gives the Brahmaputra and its tributaries their nourishing powers as they reach farms and river-dependent human and non-human populations downstream. It is not the volume of the water that flows into India that matters as much as its quality.The Dhaka-based scholar Imtiaz Ahmed says that states and people should guarantee rights on the river for these impinge on the right to life. Such rights exist for seas and oceans under the United Nation Convention on the Law of the Sea.I stood once at the foot of a small gorge in Tibet and looked up. That view was enough to establish the scale of infinity between the landscape and the river — and our own puny existence. A little humility goes a long way in understanding our world.Sanjoy Hazarika is international director, Commonwealth Human Rights Initiative, and has worked extensively on rivers and water issuesThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-brahmaputra-is-in-danger-delhi-and-dhaka-must-challenge-beijing-101614181248822.html
24-02-2021||Today's||Where Nepali and Indian interests meet||On Tuesday evening, in a historic judgment, Nepal’s Supreme Court struck down Prime Minister (PM) KP Sharma Oli’s decision to dissolve Parliament as unconstitutional, ordered the restoration of the House of Representatives, and called for a sitting of the House within 13 days.With this, Nepal has possibly averted a deep crisis, which would have torn apart its nascent democratic system, shaken the constitutional structure of republicanism, federalism and parliamentary system, pushed the country towards prolonged political instability, led to the entrenched authoritarianism of KP Sharma Oli, and eroded India standing as a democratic ally and eventually hurt its interests.To understand the significance of what has happened in Nepal, rewind to December 20. Increasingly facing pressure from his internal party rivals — former PMs Prachanda and Madhav Nepal — Oli decided to dissolve the Parliament itself. In a traditional Westminster system, the PM — who enjoys a majority — has the right to do so. But Nepal’s new Constitution specifically prohibited a PM from doing so. This was meant to prevent instability in a country which has seen close to two dozen PMs in three decades. Oli’s move to dissolve Parliament was accompanied by his push to take over all State institutions — through appointments of pliant individuals. This, therefore, was creating a dynamic where Oli enjoyed untrammelled power with no accountability.Elections sound democratic but there were multiple layers here. If polls happened, it would mean departing from the constitutional order and whether it would be fair and legitimate under Oli was a big question; if elections did not happen, and the House remained dissolved, there would be a period of unrest without an institutional mechanism to find a political alternative even as the government’s popular legitimacy dipped. This would then open the door for all forces — including conservative, royalist and anti-federal forces — which are uncomfortable within the political changes enshrined in the Constitution.Nepal’s democratic forces, civil society and the media were quick to understand the nature of the crisis. The Nepal Communist Party (NCP) has undergone a de facto split, with Prachanda and Madhav Nepal taking to the streets against Oli — though this split has not been formalised yet. The Nepali Congress (NC) leader Sher Bahadur Deuba, tempted by the possibility of becoming PM after fresh elections, was ambivalent — but the entire rank and file of Nepal’s oldest democratic force was against Oli’s decision. The Janata Samajwadi Party (JSP), led by Madhesi leaders and former PM Baburam Bhattarai, could see that despite their reservations with the current Constitution, its alternative would be a further regressive turn with a setback to their cherished principles of inclusion and federalism.It is in this context that Nepal’s Supreme Court, providing a stellar example of constitutionalism in a region where the judiciary has been perhaps too aligned with executive preferences, stepped in. The decision to restore the House is a firm rebuke to Oli — who should, on moral grounds, resign from office now. If he doesn’t, he should be prepared for a floor test as soon as the House meets — for it is unlikely he still enjoys the confidence of the Parliament he attempted to kill. The court’s decision also throws questions on the judgment of President Bidya Bhandari — who was, given her political proximity to the PM, too quick to go with an unconstitutional recommendation in dissolving the House.But more significantly, this is a moment to look forward and correct the undemocratic turn Nepal took. Oli’s aides have claimed that the court verdict will not solve the political problem — they are right. The political problem is Oli, a deeply polarising figure who has stepped outside the constitutional framework. And he has to go. The good news is that there is a possible democratic alternative which, with some handholding and careful management, can emerge.The Nepali Congress, the Prachanda-Nepal faction of the NCP, and the JSP should now come together — under the leadership of the NC — to form an alternative government, with a common minimum programme which recommits Nepal to a democratic constitutional path, pledges progressive constitutional amendments to take into account concerns of marginalised communities, and reorients Nepal’s foreign policy to underscore the centrality of India even as Nepal engages with China within a clear framework.India had, to put it bluntly, misread the situation in Nepal. It has swung from being cordial with Oli (till 2014-15) to fighting him (2015-17) to reconciling with his electoral victory (2017-early 2020) to cutting off communication with him after his ultra-nationalist turn during the border dispute (March-August 2020) to becoming his close partner and ally (August onwards). When Oli reached out to Delhi last year, desperate for a rapprochement, India decided that if the PM could step back from his anti-India rhetoric and maintain the State-to-State relationship with India, Delhi could do business with him. It chose to ignore his authoritarian and ethnic exclusivist politics and close collaboration, till that point, with China.Oli’s decision to dissolve the House also led to a split in the NCP — this was a core Indian objective for a unified, pro-China NCP had become difficult to manage. And India thought that elections would throw up a more friendly arithmetic in the House. In the process, the country— despite claims of not being involved — came across as tilting against the democratic aspirations of Nepali citizens.Delhi should see the restoration of the House as an opening. It should advise Oli not to engage in any misadventurism; deepen its communication with other political players in the fray; and quietly convey its goodwill for a democratic alternative while outlining its red lines and core interests. Nepali democracy and Indian strategic interests converge. Build on it.prashant.jha1@htlive.comThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/where-nepali-and-indian-interests-meet-101614174107156.html
24-02-2021||Today's||Why India must include prisoners in its immunisation drive||“Every single Indian who needs to be vaccinated will be vaccinated”. This is the rallying cry of the Covid-19 Immunisation Protocol for India. Yet, as the country undertakes its biggest immunisation drive, a question arises: Will this include people in custody?People in custody, whether accused or convicted, must be considered a priority for the immunisation drive. The Sustainable Development Goals call to “leave no one behind” has helped push boundaries and promote inclusiveness. With vaccinations now available, we need to ensure that those in custody also have access to the cure.In early December, the Government of India released India’s Covid-19 statistics and defined its path to immunisation. The Centre’s strategy is hinged on the maximisation of technology and is heavily reliant on citizens to upload accurate health data.In light of these developments, it is vital to underscore that persons in confinement continue to be disproportionately affected by the direct and indirect impact of Covid-19. Therefore, the strategy for implementation needs to be resolved through equitable allocation.In 1997, the Supreme Court in Rama Murthy v State of Karnataka upheld the protection of the health of prisoners. In Parmanand Katara v Union of India and Ors., the apex court ruled that the state has an obligation to preserve life, whether he is an innocent or a criminal liable to punishment under the law. The Constitution may not guarantee the fundamental right to health, but it is subsumed under the right to life. The Nelson Mandela Rules, 2015, frame international basic standards vis-à-vis the minimum treatment to prisoners, including medical and health standards. The Model Prison Manual also upholds every prisoner’s right to basic health needs. However, with just one medical staff for 243 inmates and high staff vacancy, concerns about testing, isolation and, now, enrolling and administering the vaccine are well-founded.The National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC) was constituted on August 7, 2020, to strategise for the inoculation drive. The Co-WIN (Covid Vaccine Intelligence Work) application was developed to track vaccines, their administration and the e-recording of the inoculated.India currently accounts for close to 10% of the global total of cases, less than 1% of all active cases and 6.2% of all deaths. Last March, the Supreme Court noted that since Indian prisons were overcrowded, they could be a breeding ground for the spread of Covid-19 and, therefore, pose a threat to inmates and prison staff. Cognisant of a potential disaster, the court directed immediate steps for the release of some prisoners to ease pressure on the system. To this end, the prison population fell by a significant 10.42% by end of June, 2020. Yet, 27% of the prisons in 19 States/Union Territories continued to be overcrowded. As many as 18,157 prisoners and staff contracted the virus and 17 succumbed. This is why it is deeply concerning that prisoners are being excluded from the first phase of vaccination because they happen to be incarcerated. There is potential for further spread, since steps are now underway to recall prisoners who were earlier released due to the pandemic.The problem doesn’t end there. Co-WIN relies on access to technology ie, mobile phones for people to upload details of their comorbidities. And when it comes to people in custody, reliability for uploading accurate data rests on sticky grounds.The committee formulating the strategy needs to understand the bottlenecks which may arise for those in custody. Specific implementation plans, which acknowledge these concerns, must be rolled out. This includes checking logistical barriers, information roll-out and the final steps towards vaccination. This will be the true test of the commitment to promote inclusion and fairness.Amrita Paul is senior programme officer with the Prison Reforms Programme, Commonwealth Human Rights Initiative (CHRI)The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/why-india-must-include-prisoners-in-its-immunisation-drive-101614151425753.html
24-02-2021||Today's||When the fantasy of better battery science doesn’t match reality||With billions of dollars flowing to electric cars, investors are eagerly waiting for the next breakthrough in battery technology – one that will underpin the future adoption of green vehicles.They may be waiting a while: The technical challenges of making better batteries (and therefore, electric vehicles) are enormous and the expectations associated with them are even more fantastical.Such disproportionate enthusiasm is misplaced. Battery costs, which make up almost half the expense of an electric car, have come down, while their energy density has gone up, meaning vehicles can go further. Government subsidies are helping too. Despite these improvements, we are nowhere near the affordability, guaranteed safety or optimistic forecasts of years past. In fact, installations of older battery technologies that are safer and cheaper are rising as carmakers try to keep up with the hype.It’s clear the path to better batteries is far tougher and longer than all the rosy estimates.Technology has been forced to chase investors’ expectations. In China, the world’s largest market for electric cars where sales are growing steadily, battery installations of so-called lithium iron phosphate, or LFP, batteries – the technology of the last decade – accounted for 38% of the market, up from 33% the year before. Such batteries lag behind newer ones by as much as 30% in terms of energy density.The reality is, these powertrains are highly complex. Even as some promising advances are made, commercial viability remains a stumbling block. Chief among those hurdles is boosting energy density and along with it, safety. The more energy a battery has, the further a car can go. However, that also hastens the pace of degradation and shortens battery life. Several higher-density batteries don’t have stable chemical compositions either, leaving them dangerously vulnerable to combustion.To get over such challenges, firms are trying to make solid-state batteries that will be safer and, eventually, cheaper. Others are intent on boosting battery density by using more nickel content, and less cobalt, which is expensive and mired in supply issues. The progress so far has been limited. Investors and analysts, meanwhile, are honing in the improvements on to individual battery parts, like cathodes and anodes.The flipside of these advances are often overlooked. For instance, solid-state batteries that can store more have low power density, which means their energy delivery is slow, while those with higher nickel content are less chemically stable. In addition, solid state batteries have been known to discharge sulphides.Take QuantumScape Corp, a startup that counts Volkswagen AG and Soros Fund Management LLC among its backers. It’s trying to make safer and eventually cheaper solid-state lithium-metal batteries and recently flagged it had made a technical breakthrough. However, to produce en masse and have a market, it still needs to deal with issues including how to manufacture larger, multi-layered batteries outside a controlled laboratory setting. It posted a $1.1 billion net loss in 2020 and is targeting first commercial production in 2024.Part of the problem is, car companies are fueling the hype. China’s Nio Inc., for instance, said in January it would launch production-ready solid state batteries with greater density and range of more than 1,000 kilometers (621 miles) by the end of next year. Considering where QuantumScape and others are, that’s optimistic. Meanwhile, Nio has returned to batteries with less nickel content because of “performance and cost considerations,” Goldman Sachs Group Inc. analysts noted recently. Even though battery prices have edged down, costs are still high. Companies are trying to raise production and capacity. That’s meant more invested capital. However, total capital expenditure on the global electric vehicle lithium battery market has been getting less efficient, measured on a dollars per kilowatt hour basis. Surging prices of key battery commodities like nickel, lithium and cobalt hasn’t helped lower development costs either.With all the advances and new electric car models coming to market, there’s also safety to consider. Cars are literally catching on fire.Since launching in 2018, Hyundai Motor Co. has reported several blazes in its Kona electric vehicle related to the battery and previously recalled some of the cars to do a system update. But even those caught alight and now the company will replace battery systems in thousands of the model. Tesla Inc. has had battery fire issues in China, although its battery maker said it had nothing to do with it.Underneath all the valuation froth, it’s probably a good time to take stock of where battery technology stands.This column does not necessarily reflect the opinion of the editorial board or Bloomberg LP and its owners.Anjani Trivedi is a Bloomberg Opinion columnist covering industrial companies in Asia. She previously worked for the Wall Street Journal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/when-the-fantasy-of-better-battery-science-doesn-t-match-reality-101614128749822.html
24-02-2021||Today's||Linking fashion, crafts and livelihood||Luxury textiles and jewellery are not new to India. The maharajahs patronised guilds with master craftspeople working in fine weaving and embroideries for centuries. They created custom-made clothes and saris for royalty, some of which are yet to be matched for their sophisticated concepts and superb workmanship. Indian luxury goods have always been defined by their exceptional heritage value in that they were invariably handmade, using skills inherited over generations. Bespoke textiles in India, therefore, were never meant for mass consumption, but were produced under the patronage of kings and temples.This order has changed radically in the western world. In the last five decades, many European fashion houses, created by highly talented but a small number of designers, have been bought over by multinational companies. They then began mass producing one-of-a-kind couture collections and sold them at enormously expensive prices. Marketing and not handcrafted quality dictated the sales, and technology started playing a large and vital part in the manufacture, till they were no longer totally hand-tooled.In the post-pandemic world, we will need to look at a different concept of luxury goods, especially from an Indian perspective. There are at least 16 million craftspeople in India, whose works are not showcased in museums. The production of Indian luxury goods takes place in modest environments, mostly villages in the unorganised sector. What is not modest is the creativity and handiwork of the artistes who toil in relative obscurity. It is remarkable that this sector still functions in India.In the absence of institutional support, bank credit and government financial packages, these artistes and craftspeople find no space or sympathy from any quarter. Handcrafted luxury goods are our inheritance and we have to find solutions which are innovative, and not leave it to the ministry of textiles alone.The existence of our textile heritage is almost like a miracle. It has survived due to a number of accidental factors. In its initial phases, National Institute of Fashion Technology was born, which produced the first batches of Indian fashion designers. They were encouraged to show collections, which focused on artisanal handicrafts that had survived the test of time. Part of this was due to the relatively small financial outlay required to put together collections.Though modest in commercial terms, the Indian fashion industry was able to create disproportionate hype across the country. It influenced the film world and found traction even in the rural hinterland, creating a unique identity. There was an aspiration to belong to this new fashion phenomenon, which was purely indigenous. This is rare anywhere in the world.The media had just found its wings and was only endlessly happy to cover the flow of new collections from young designers. Glamorous wedding trousseaus echoed the feudal styles of the maharajahs of yore. Fashion designers were on top of their game in India and the trickle-down effect led to the celebration of folk arts such as bandhini, zardozi and the fabulous embroideries of Kutch. Handwoven Benarasi saris, paithanis and patolas from Gujarat were also showcased across the world. There was a premium on handmade textiles and garments.In real terms, before the pandemic, the textile and apparel industry in India employed nearly 45 million people, next only to the agriculture sector. Handicraft exports from India to the United States increased 2% year on year; it was $3.39 billion in February 2020.Today, we see a tragic reversal; export orders have dried up and domestic demand, crumbled. This has resulted in large-scale unemployment across the weaving, printing and embroidery communities, which have been hit the hardest, and which have little access to credit. The communities of weavers in Benaras and elsewhere have to rely on middlemen for loans to buy yarn. This way, they get trapped in a vicious cycle which leads to great impoverishment.We will need fashion designers to become the catalysts in an industry on which so many livelihoods depend. A lot of small enterprises that survived on hype may shut shop. But with the depth of the crafts sector, there is some hope for continuing the tradition. As spending patterns become more conservative, people’s tastes also change, One hopes they will once again opt for what they understand — more classic designs, handwoven saris, authentic embroidery.I am beginning to see a fashion renaissance of Indian textiles. Rohit Bal is experimenting with dyes sourced from black carrots, which are used to make kanji, a North Indian drink; it gives a lovely saffron colour to the cloth. Last heard, Rakesh Thakur is looking at yarns dyed in indigo. I am yet again seeking the genius of the kalamkari artistes from Machillipatnam who created the exquisite flowers and shoots that initiated the chintz rage in Europe. I hope, in this way, in India at least, fashion will become more organic and sustainable.The real problem then lies with the marketing of these handicrafts. The textile ministry is making a conscious effort at documenting the crafts of the country. I sincerely hope that there are enough start-ups that can make these available in the virtual world. Websites don’t need retail space or middlemen to sell India’s rich legacy of handicrafts.They can introduce India’s vast treasure trove of luxury goods to the world. They can connect buyers with the craftsmen who make these rare luxury goods. This will revive interest in crafts. We have to think of innovative solutions to save our heritage. We owe this to future generations and to our craftspeople.Ritu Kumar is a fashion designer. The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/linking-fashion-crafts-and-livelihood-101614092001949.html
24-02-2021||Today's||India will have to step up climate diplomacy||The Energy and Resources Institute (TERI) hosts an annual event, the World Sustainable Development Summit (WSDS). Its focus this year was, naturally, on the climate crisis. The summit was inaugurated by Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi. Leaders from Guyana, Maldives, the United Kingdom (UK) and the European Union (EU), apart from the United Nations deputy secretary-general (S-G), the United States (US) Special Envoy for Climate, John Kerry, and India’s external affairs and environment ministers spoke at the summit. This heavyweight participation from across the globe clearly testified to India as a major climate stakeholder.PM Modi strongly underscored India’s resolve to fight the climate crisis with concrete action. He noted that India’s emissions intensity of Gross Domestic Product had fallen by 24%, well on the way to the committed 33%-35% reduction by 2030. Moreover, India is on track for its huge target of 450 GW of renewable energy generating capacity by 2030. He also underlined climate justice. And he couldn’t be more right. More than 75% of the carbon space available to humankind has already been taken up by emissions, current and over time, of the US, Europe and China, with countries such as India — with huge development imperatives and small carbon footprints — needing carbon and policy space.For years, India was known in climate circles as an obstructionist but, in 2015, India strongly facilitated the Paris Accord and today it is, perhaps, the only country in the G20 that is well on its way to realising its Nationally Determined Commitments (NDCs). This was acknowledged at WSDS with the former Maldivian president and global climate leader, Mohammad Nasheed, noting that India’s (renewable) target is “the biggest improvement in terms of climate benefit of any country on earth”.Studies show that despite the Covid-19 slowdown, even an aggregation of NDCs leaves the world short on the Paris commitment of limiting temperature rise to 1.5 degrees C. The election of President Joe Biden and the US re-joining the Paris Accord has given the international climate scene a new impetus to aim for even higher ambition. Net-zero emissions of greenhouse gas (GHG) by 2050 is the new mantra. This goal has already been accepted by EU, UK, Japan, South Korea and is in tandem with US thinking. The Chinese have announced they will meet the target by 2060.At WSDS, India was strongly urged to move in that direction. Nasheed said: “127 countries responsible for 63% of emissions are considering or have adopted net-zero targets. Now, India, Prime Minister.” Kerry was explicit, saying, “We all have to adopt the notion of zero emissions.” And his finger pointed towards India when he noted that “90% of the world’s emissions come from somewhere other than our country (US)” and “70% come from somewhere other than China”. Strange as this may appear, but the US and China could be on the same side in global climate negotiations for enhanced mitigation.And, this time, it will also be about the credibility of commitments with UN deputy S-G Amina Mohammad saying that she looked forward to “seeing the path that you (India) will chart to get to net zero emission”.Ministries in India are notorious for working in silos. Climate is an honourable exception with the ministries of environment and external affairs working together for years. These ministries need to be even stronger in partnership for more intensive engagement across the globe, including through coalitions that push Growth with Renewable Energy, Entrepreneurship and Nature (GREEN). The International Solar Alliance needs to add to this push.Kerry’s appointment exemplifies the western tradition of special envoys for major issues of interest to them. On one occasion, India, too, has had a special envoy for climate, and on another, the principal scientific adviser led the Indian participation at the major economies meeting (on climate). Such an appointment of a special envoy is something that the government may wish to consider again.India also needs to strongly step up the projection of its most laudable climate actions and bring adaptation to focus in the climate discourse. This is most essential at key climate negotiation venues and at points of UN convergence. An excellent beginning has been the Coalition for Disaster Resilient Infrastructure and India’s well-regarded environment institutions, including think-tanks, could play a useful role in complementing governmental efforts. These actions need to be kickstarted immediately given that, in 2021 itself, India will be involved in several high-voltage global events. These include the G7 meeting for which the UK has invited PM Modi and where President Biden will be present, the India-EU Summit and Conference of the Parties-26, which will be held in Glasgow in November. In any case, the global discourse on climate is not just about environment or even energy, but involves global governance in which India now has a high stake.India’s climate leadership, steered by PM Modi, is rightly acknowledged and lauded. It’s time for climate diplomacy by India.Manjeev Singh Puri is a former ambassador and has served as lead negotiator for India at UNFCCC. He is currently a distinguished fellow, TERIThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/india-will-have-to-step-up-climate-diplomacy-101614086387118.html
24-02-2021||Today's||India can’t lose out on this window of economic reforms||There is a marked difference between the agitating farmers and the anti-social, ultra-Left and pro-Khalistani elements who are piggy-backing on them. Understanding this difference is important for citizens in general, and politicians in particular. One, this agitation is not merely a law and order issue, and dealing with it as such will be a mistake. Two, it is not focused on the interest of the farmers, and it is also not about the three farm laws alone — so any effort to explain the benefits of these laws will not cut any ice. Three, there are emerging strains between two different factions — the Sikhs of Punjab, concentrated at the Singhu border, and Jats from western Uttar Pradesh, stationed at the Ghazipur border. While those at Singhu are averse to any political intervention, at Ghazipur, Rakesh Tikait has shown indications of political ambition.How the government deals with these two strains will be important in the coming days. The plot has got thicker with global players, spanning both State and non-State actors, jumping on to the bandwagon. All of this makes it clear that this is a political movement against the Narendra Modi government, and it has to be dealt with politically. The farm laws are good for agriculture and will benefit farmers to a large extent by creating an alternative and transparent ecosystem for attracting private investment in this capital-deficient sector, which has been starved of market reforms for decades. But leaders of the movement insist on a repeal of the laws and will not accept any amendments. The government has already bent backwards, agreeing to more than a dozen amendments, allaying concerns on Minimum Support Price, and offering to suspend these three laws for up to 18 months, which will make them ineffective till that time.The government’s reluctance to repeal the laws stems from the conviction about the need for market-oriented reforms in the sector and increasing the role of private players in the agri-economy. This stand has been reiterated over two decades by agro-economists, parliamentary standing committees, empowered committees of the state agriculture ministers and several commissions. If this moment of reckoning is lost, it will cause irreparable damage to the democratic polity of the country. The question, thus, is, will India move towards anarchy? Will there be tyranny of the unelected, or will we respect democratic institutions such as Parliament, the Supreme Court and the process of law- making as envisaged in the Constitution?Reforms are difficult. Benefits come with a time lag and are spread thin, while their adverse impact on certain stakeholders are marked and immediate. Reforms need extraordinary political capital, and so the political class is reluctant to carry them out. As such, we have not seen many major reforms since 1991 (except the Goods and Services Tax and Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016); even the original ones were limited and carried out under compulsion of imminent sovereign default. The leadership at that time could not muster the courage to undertake major reforms in land, labour and agriculture segments. We lost an opportunity in the Land Acquisition (Amendment) Act, and if this golden opportunity is lost, we may not have any appetite left to undertake mega reforms. There are no more low-hanging fruits available for reforms.Whoever gains or loses from this agitation, the farmers will surely be at a loss. They must think afresh, for the inaction of successive governments has resulted in perpetual agrarian distress and status quo is not in the interest of farmers. We, the people of India, must decide, irrespective of the so-called shortcomings in the process of enactment of these laws, that they are the law of the land and serve the larger interest of the agriculture segment of the society, having been enacted with that intent. The government is not inclined to repeal the laws. The responsibility of building the right narrative for it rests on all well-meaning citizens. It cannot be left to political class alone. Politics will be what it is with limitations in a democratic ecosystem. Let us all rise to the occasion.Gopal Krishna Agarwal is a national spokesperson of the Bharatiya Janata PartyThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/india-can-t-lose-out-on-this-window-of-economic-reforms-101614085304437.html
24-02-2021||Editorials||A welcome step on vaccination | HT Editorial||After the peak of the first Covid-19 wave, the seven-day average of new cases (also known as the case trajectory) dropped to the lowest on February 11 across India, when it touched 10,988. Since then, it has started rising again, and touched 13,253 on Tuesday — a jump of 21%. This is, at present, fuelled by a handful of states. In Maharashtra, the case trajectory has gone up 143% in the same time period; in Punjab, daily cases have increased 66%; in Madhya Pradesh, by 56%; and in Jammu and Kashmir, by 40%.As alarm grows over what appears to be the beginning of India’s second Covid-19 wave, the Union government on Wednesday lifted some key restrictions to speed up vaccination and expand the parameters of who is eligible for inoculation. From next month, the drive has been opened to people above 60 and those above 45 with comorbidities. Significantly, the government has also allowed that vaccines — which will be given free at all State-run facilities to those eligible under these new criteria — can be administered for a price at private hospitals to those who can afford them. This is a welcome first step towards opening up the vaccination drive — both in terms of private sector involvement, and providing access to vulnerable groups other than health care and frontline workers — at a time when there is a drastic need to scale up.There are other key measures that need to be taken — the approval of more vaccines, allowing its open market sale for all, and permitting companies to buy in bulk in order to administer vaccines to employees and their families. It is important that India leverages its relative success against Covid-19 to equip its citizens in the face of a race against time against a possible second wave. Wednesday’s decision by the Union Cabinet marks a step in the right direction. More is needed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/a-welcome-step-on-vaccination-hteditorial-101614181251743.html
24-02-2021||Editorials||In defence of personal liberty | HT Editorial||By granting bail to Disha Ravi, the 22-year-old environmental activist who was arrested by the Delhi Police on a range of charges including sedition, a Delhi sessions court has stood up in favour of individual liberty, the democratic right to dissent, citizen rights, and the principle — increasingly under a cloud — of bail being the norm and jail being the exception. Additional sessions judge Justice Dharmendra Rana has also placed clear onus on the State to have adequate evidence before it levels such serious allegations against citizens, seeks prolonged custody, and, on the basis of “scanty and sketchy evidence”, draws up cases which hinge on a “global conspiracy”.In the usual course of events, a bail order from a lower court would not merit attention. But some features stand out in the current ruling. The first is the explicit reiteration of the right to dissent in a democracy — and how this cannot be conflated with sedition unless there is a direct link to violence. Increasingly, the executive — and governments across the political spectrum at the Centre and in states — have shown a willingness to throw the sedition charge at those they find inconvenient. The critics may be wrong, they may make exaggerated claims, their activism may cause challenges in policy execution, but they enrich democratic discourse. The second is its careful dissection of the “toolkit” — which constituted the key basis for the charges against Ms Ravi. This toolkit has also now been used in political discourse by the ruling party to allege a grand conspiracy against India, and as linked to the violence on January 26. The court has observed, on a preliminary basis, that there isn’t enough material to suggest a direct link.But beyond the particulars of this case, the Delhi sessions court judgment is welcome because it shows that India’s judiciary can be trusted to stand up for constitutional values. At a time when there is the political dominance of a party with an outright majority, it is important for citizens to know that the system of checks and balances exists in a democracy and there are channels to express discontent, challenge laws, and seek reprieve against executive excesses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/in-defence-of-personal-liberty-hteditorial-101614181247477.html
24-02-2021||Editorials||On China, the trade dilemma||On Tuesday, Bloomberg, based on provisional figures from the commerce ministry, reported that trade between India and China in 2020 was worth $77.7 billion. This was, do remember, a year marked by the pandemic as well as the border standoff, which had seen India consciously attempt to cut down its economic linkages with China. Yet, as the report said, China, despite a dip in trade volume compared to 2019, was India’s top trading partner and Indian imports from China, at $58.7 billion, were higher than imports from the United States and the United Arab Emirates put together. The silver lining is that India’s exports to China grew 11% to a little over $19 billion.The figures reveal four key features of India’s political economy, which will shape India’s geopolitical posture. First, for all the talk of self-reliance as a goal, India is inextricably linked to not just friendly countries but even potential adversaries in a complex economic web. The dependence on China for a range of goods means that Indian firms will find it hard to develop alternative supply sources in quick time. Neither will Indian consumers find it easy to shift away from cheap Chinese consumer goods they have got used to. Two, the composition of the trade remains a matter of deep concern — while the growth in Indian exports is positive, the trade relationship is skewed in China’s favour. This is both because of China’s unfair tariff practices and India’s own inability to compete effectively.Three, as the border stand-off eases, especially in Pangong Tso, it is unclear whether India will continue to take a strong stance on economically delinking itself from China — or whether it will go back to business-as-usual. There are indications that progress at the border will result in a gradual, perhaps even linked, resumption of the economic relationship. But both military and economic imperatives dictate that there shouldn’t be return to the economic status quo — and the future economic relationship must be more equal. And finally, these figures show how far India has to go in being able to develop a geopolitically autonomous posture. One key reason the US has struggled to deal with an aggressive China is precisely its economic web of interdependence with China. India must continue to do business with China, but on better terms, without compromising its interests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/on-china-the-trade-dilemma-101614083258759.html
24-02-2021||Editorials||Secure India’s digital infrastructure||Over the past week, this newspaper has reported on a number of incidents that point to the abuse or the possibility of abuse of the Indian government’s digital infrastructure. Some related to the use of official email addresses to launch phishing attacks, and at least one successfully compromised several targets by convincing them that it was a legitimate communication. Separately, several sensitive government websites and applications were found with problems that can allow attackers to gain dangerous levels of access and control. Many of these flaws remain unaddressed even weeks after they were brought to light. The white hat hackers eventually broke their silence, and India’s cybersec-urity apparatus has now promised to assign it to the agencies that were meant to have acted on time.These incidents bring into focus problems that independent researchers have flagged for long — inadequate recognition of threats, a digital infra erected without adequate safeguards, endemic lack of awareness of safe practices, and a threat and vulnerability-response mechanism that is far from dynamic. The nature of the cyberspace is such that if attackers are able to leverage all or a combination of these weaknesses, they can cause damage that will be far greater than the sum of the parts. This is exactly what the cyber soldiers of a nation-State are able to do to their adversaries. For India, this means it is not just the cyber security of its citizens that is at stake, but also the risk to public infrastructure and national security. To address this, it needs institutions with sophisticated skillsets, which can work with independent communities, tear through red tape, and, evolve as quickly as cyber threats do.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/secure-india-s-digital-infrastructure-101614082778669.html
