27-02-2021||Other||Two shot dead, 2 hurt in suspected gang war||In a suspected gang war, two persons were shot dead and two others were injured after four assailants fired shots at them in a room in the fields of Nindana village on Saturday.The deceased have been identified as Ankush Kumar, of Farmana village, Vikas Kumar, of Nindana village, both in their early 20’s. Sumit Kumar and Ankit, of Nindana village, were grievously injured and are undergoing treatment at the Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS), Rohtak.Sunny Loura, spokesman of the Rohtak police, said the incident took place when four persons, two of whom were identified as Kapil and Dhila, reached the room where Ankush and three others were sitting.“They opened fire at the victims. Two persons were killed on the spot. This is a case of gang war and both parties have some old enmity. We have registered a case of murder under the IPC against Kapil, Dhila and two others and an investigation has been initiated,” the spokesman added.14 murder in Rohtak so far this yearRohtak has seen a steep rise in crime, particularly murders. The district has reported 14 murders this year against last year’s nine in the same time period.Among these murders are - six persons being killed at the wrestling arena of Jat College, a woman weightlifter being killed by her coach, a murder accused who was out on parole being shot dead by a group of assailants while his father and friend had received bullet injuries, a youth being shot dead outside a hotel, and other cases.DSP (headquarters) Gorakh Pal said three killings were a result of gang war and the remaining 11 were outcome of family dispute or personal enmity.“We have made arrests in all cases, except Saturday’s double murders. Cops are working hard to prevent such criminal activities and making efforts to arrest the accused,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/two-shot-dead-2-hurt-in-suspected-gang-war-101614450550224.html
27-02-2021||Chandigarh||Celebs have greater responsibility of choosing their words in public: HC on Yuvraj’s plea||The Punjab and Haryana high court has said that celebrities have greater responsibility in using a term in public or social media platforms as the same can be misinterpreted.The HC bench of justice Amol Rattan Singh, in its order on the plea of former cricket Yuvraj Singh, observed that Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes (Prevention and Atrocities) Act, 1989, was enacted to safeguard the interests of a section of society that has been known to be oppressed since ages.“Naturally any violation of the provisions of the said Act have to be dealt with strictly to try and ensure that a sense of well being is instilled in such sections of society, towards which every person, and celebrities in particular, should be careful in the usage of any term which can be misinterpreted,” the bench observed in its order released on Saturday.It was on Thursday that the HC had asked the Haryana Police to not take any coercive action against the former cricketer in the criminal case registered in Hisar district. The FIR was registered on complaint of one Rajat Kalsan, of Hansi, under Sections 153A (promoting enmity) and 153B (assertions prejudicial to national-integration) of the Indian Penal Code and under the SC/ST Act.The FIR was registered on February 14, eight months after Yuvraj Singh had apologised for the “unintentional remarks” made during an Instagram live video in April 2020. The former cricketer is seeking quashing of the FIR.Earlier, the complainant’s counsel had told court that the former cricketer, being a celebrity, has crores of followers on social media and the chat in question would have been followed by all of them, as also by the followers of his celebrity friends with whom he was in conversation.Yuvraj had argued that the person in reference, to whom the alleged casteist remarks are stated to have been made, does not belong to a scheduled caste. He said that the statement was made in context of somebody being in an inebriated condition.The court further observed that the term in question is being subjected to two interpretations - as to whether it was used against any particular community or in reference to a person in an inebriated condition, with the person concerned admittedly not belonging to any scheduled caste, which the court would have to adjudicate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/celebs-have-greater-responsibility-of-choosing-their-words-in-public-hc-on-yuvraj-s-plea-101614450430195.html
27-02-2021||Mumbai||Covid-19 impact: Social sciences students stare at bleak placement season||Students from social sciences courses in the city are facing a bleak placement season this year owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS), Mumbai did not hold the placement week, which is a central process for recruitment of students, this year. However, the placement drive is taking place online at the convenience of recruiters, said Asha Banu, dean of student affairs, TISS, who looks after placements.“Earlier, recruiters would give us a commitment that they would visit the campus for placements on a certain date. This year, however, everything seems to be in flux as recruiters decide their priorities,” said Banu. This year, many recruiters have decided to take in students through off-campus placement or online mode.A student of TISS, on the condition of anonymity, said, “One of the primary attractions for recruiters at TISS is the field action project that all students do. This is one place where they can find students with previous experience on field. This year that has been an issue with recruiters.”Field Action Projects (FAP) are undertaken by students of TISS every year where they demonstrate new interventions; respond to new needs and changing social realities; provide field experience and training to students and faculty members; evolve new strategies for intervention; and develop indigenous data base literature for training. However, owing to Covid-19, students have been asked to engage in an FAP in their hometowns.At the Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B), humanities students also participate in the central placement drive. However, students said that not many are placed through the drive. “While some MPhil students are able to get placements, most PhD researchers apply for postdoc positions,” said a second-year humanities student from IIT-B.The institute recently tweaked its policy allowing its own PhD holders to apply for positions as post-doctoral fellows at the institute. Earlier, PhD scholars from the institute were not allowed to apply for post-doctoral positions.An official from the institute said the decision to tweak this policy was based on the fact that candidates from outside the institute could not join owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. However, sources said this could be because not many PhD scholars are able to secure a post-doctoral position in another institute. “For humanities students, the situation is tougher. With fund cuts in most central universities, the number of post-doctoral positions has reduced. Covid-19 has further reduced our chances of job prospects,” said the student.Shantanu Rooj, founder and chief executive officer of recruiting consultancy TeamLease Edtech, said, “The impact of Covid-19 has been different for different courses. Courses such as political sciences, economics and psychology saw an uptick in job prospects as organisations are now looking for data interpreters and social scientists. However, on the other hand, courses that require field work such as geography, history and social work have seen a downward trend.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid19-impact-social-sciences-students-stare-at-bleak-placement-season-101614450310800.html
27-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: 3 YouTubers held for uploading obscene videos, molesting girls||City cyber police has arrested three YouTubers for allegedly creating obscene and vulgar prank videos in public places in Mumbai. They would allegedly rope in young girls, including minors, under the pretext of shooting prank videos and offer them money. But during shooting, they would touch the girls inappropriately in public and molest them. Based on the complaint of some of the girls, police arrested the trio — Mukesh Fulchand Gupta, 29; Prince Kumar Raju Sao, 23; and Jitendra Baichetram Gupta, 25. Mukesh is a Thane resident while other two are residents of Kurar. Milind Bharambhe, joint commissioner of police (crime), said the three accused would lure young girls and women to act in their prank videos for money. Thereafter, the accused would shoot the videos in public places such as Juhu beach, Gorai beach, Aksa beach, BMC gardens, etc. Under the pretext of shooting the prank videos, they would touch private parts of the girls and use vulgar language, the senior IPS officer added.At least five girls, including a minor, have approached the police complaining that they were molested under the pretext of shooting prank videos. On the basis of their complaint, the police registered a criminal case against the accused and arrested them.“The accused Mukesh, who secured 98.5% in 2008 SSC exams, is the main brain behind the obscene prank video racket. The other two used to assist him. Mukesh and his two aides were running more than 17 YouTube channels and Facebook pages. The group has earned about ₹2 crore through these activities,” said Bharambe.Dr Rashmi Karandikar, deputy commissioner of police (cyber), said, “The group uploaded more than 300 such obscene prank videos which have over 150 million views on social media sites. Their channels and pages have more than 20 million subscribers.” “The accused very well knew that obscenity and vulgarity attracts huge number of viewers on social media platforms, hence they were shooting obscene videos under the pretext of pranks videos. And for that, they exploited girls and made money,” said Nitin Jadhav, assistant inspector of cyber police station.Some of the girls had requested the accused to take their videos down from internet, but the accused would extort money from them by threatening to defame them.“ Mukesh takes tuitions of school kids. We are checking if he has targeted any girl students from the tuition class,” the DCP said. “The accused have been booked under sections 292, 294, 509, 34 of Indian Penal Code, 67 and 67B of Information Technology Act, 8, 12 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offenses Act and Indecent Representation of Women’s (Prevention) Act for obscene act in public, molestation, molesting minor girls, using electronic devices to broadcast obscene content,” said inspector Mousami Patil of cyber police station who is investigating officer of the case. “There are similar groups operating in Delhi and Jharkhand,” DCP Karandikar said.Joint commissioner Bharambe appealed to citizens to keep an eye on their children and stop them from becoming part of such pranks videos so that they can be prevented from such abuse.“We have also written to YouTube and other social media service providers to take down the obscene videos from internet,” Bharambhe said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-3-youtubers-held-for-uploading-obscene-videos-molesting-girls-101614450191666.html
27-02-2021||Other||Maharashtra BJP leader Chitra Wagh’s kin booked by ACB in assets case||The anti-corruption bureau (ACB) has booked Kishore Wagh, the husband of Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Maharashtra vice-president Chitra Wagh, in a disproportionate assets case. ACB said that Wagh, while serving at the state-run Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Hospital, Parel, as a medical records librarian, amassed assets worth ₹2.18 crore, which is 90% more than his legitimate sources of income. Chitra Wagh, who had left Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) in 2019 to join BJP, has termed the development a “witch-hunt” by the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government (comprising NCP, Shiv Sena and Congress) because she has been demanding action against a Sena minister in the suicide case of a TikTok star. “My husband is not guilty. The main accused in the case has been spared and my husband is being targeted instead,” she alleged. However, state Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant in a tweet has claimed that the open inquiry against Kishore Wagh had started in 2016, when BJP-Sena government was in power. “Had Chitratai not entered BJP, the [Devendra] Fadnavis government would have registered an offence back then. It was only because of the inordinate delay on the part of the then BJP government and later the Covid-19 pandemic that the registration of an FIR (first information report) was delayed,” read Sawant’s tweet. According to the ACB’s FIR (of which HT as a copy), Kishore Wagh had been arrested by the agency in 2016 for his alleged role in accepting a bribe of ₹4 lakh from the brother of a patient who had died at the Parel hospital. Following this, Kishore Wagh, the hospital’s medical superintendent Gajanan Bhagat and another person, Sandesh Kambale, had been arrested. ACB officers had then searched Kishore Wagh’s house located at the hospital’s staff quarters, where Chitra Wagh and their son Aditya lived and had seized incriminating documents, the agency claimed. Following this, senior ACB officers had ordered an open inquiry against Kishore Wagh, who is under suspension from the hospital since his arrest in 2016. During inquiry, ACB officials analysed Kishore Wagh’s income and ancestral property from December 1, 2006, to July 5, 2016, to investigate the alleged illegal income growth. “The open inquiry found that Kishore Wagh had not disclosed information about his assets to the government. He also did not take permission from the officials concerned before going abroad. He had also failed to disclose the details of withdrawals, purchase and deposits in his bank account when ACB had written te to him seeking the same,” stated assistant commissioner of police (ACB) Navnath Jagtap, the complainant, in the FIR. The inquiry concluded that between December 1, 2006, and July 5, 2016, Kishore Wagh amassed assets worth ₹2.18 crore, which is 90% excess to his known source of Income. These assets are located in Nashik, Mumbai and Pune, the FIR stated. Kishore Wagh has been booked under the relevant sections of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/maharashtra-bjp-leader-chitra-wagh-s-kin-booked-by-acb-in-assets-case-101614450190082.html
27-02-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC refuses 6-year-old’s custody to his ‘poor’ biological parents||In an important ruling, the Nagpur bench of the Bombay high court (HC) on Friday upheld a family court order, refusing to grant custody of a six-year-old boy to his poor biological parents, observing that the interests of the child will be best served by continuing him with his rich adoptive parents, a childless couple from Nagpur.The division bench comprising justice AS Chandurkar and justice NB Suryawanshi said there was sufficient evidence on record to prove that the adoptive parents were in a better position to take care of the welfare of the child.“They (adoptive parents) are taking care of his health, education, intellectual development and are giving him, favourable surroundings and they are imbibing moral and physical values in the child,” said the bench. “In our considered opinion, they are in a better position to look after the moral and physical welfare and the future of the child.”The observation came in the view of the fact that the adoptive parents belonged to a business family and the adoptive mother was a practising doctor, whereas the biological father, an autorickshaw driver lacked a steady source of income and his financial condition did not appear to be sound.Besides, HC noted, the auto-driver was married and having two children, and the child in question was born out of his extra-marital relationship with another woman, who later joined his family and also delivered another girl child. The boy was born on August 30, 2014, at a private hospital in Nagpur and the next day the child and his mother were discharged from the hospital. The father of the unwed mother, however, could not take his daughter and her illegitimate child to his home because of social constraints, his daughter being an unwed mother.Five days after the delivery, the newborn was diagnosed with jaundice. The helpless father of the unwed mother then decided to hand over the child to the childless married son of his employer, a cloth store owner. In February 2015, the unwed mother again came in contact with the auto driver when she stepped out for medical treatment. She then joined his company and started demanding custody of the 6-year-old. After the adoptive parents refused to part with custody of the child, in May 2015, they moved the family court at Nagpur seeking custody of the child on the ground of being his biological parents and contending that adoption was alien to Islamic Law.The adoptive parents also filed a counter-petition for their appointment as guardians of the child.Two years later the family court rejected the claim of the biological parents and appointed the adoptive parents as guardians of the child. The biological parents had then moved HC in an appeal against the family court order.HC on Friday dismissed the appeal primarily because the auto driver lacked steady and regular income and had the responsibility to maintain two wives and three children. Besides, he was residing in a tin-shed house.While dismissing the appeal, HC also took into consideration that the child was handed over to the adoptive parents from the 5th day of his birth and since then the child was nurtured and brought up by them. “The child is now six years of age and naturally he is mentally and emotionally attached to them (adoptive parents). The child has developed a bond with them,” said HC. “They both appear to be in a position to look after the child and to provide adequate facilities to him in a proper and congenial manner,” said the bench. “In case the child’s custody is handed over to biological parents, it would cause emotional turmoil to the child. He will be uprooted from the present family and the surroundings in which he is brought up and will be required to go in alien surroundings and circumstances, in which it would be difficult for him to adjust,” the court added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-refuses-6-year-old-s-custody-to-his-poor-biological-parents-101614450130534.html
27-02-2021||Mumbai||MTDC plans crocodile safari in Powai lake, seeks Mumbai civic body nod||As part of its initiative to boost tourism in the city, the Maharashtra Tourism Development Corporation (MTDC) has sought a nod by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to start crocodile safari boating in Powai lake. The tentative deadline to start these boating services is June-end.According to MTDC officials, they have sought permission from the BMC to start the safari, for which, the boats will be operated by the MTDC. The tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray has held two review meetings in the last two weeks.The plan is to have barges that will allow citizens to sail around Powai lake that is home to several crocodiles. The boats will be purchased and operated by the MTDC, said the officials.Powai lake is maintained by the BMC to supply non-potable water to industries since the water in it is not potable.Ashutosh Salil, managing director of the MTDC said, “Discussion for starting such services has been initiated with the BMC. We have already sought their permission. The plan is to start boating to conduct a crocodile safari by June end. We are yet to work on the fare structure and other minute details. But the boats will be like a barge considering the safety of visitors.”The BMC also has plans to beautify the area around Powai lake that includes the walking pathway, garden area etc.The civic body said it is working on several plans to restore the lake from pollutants and preserve it, as the lake has rich marine biodiversity and rare species of crocodiles. It had in the past also received money from the Centre under the National Plan for Conservation of Aquatic Eco-Systems to preserve the lake, but its initiatives have been put on hold owing to the construction of the Metro-6 corridor which passes from near the lake.The MTDC on similar lines in the coming months is also planning to make BMC owned guest houses near Tansa, Modak Sagar and Vihar lakes available for the general public. This is a bid to boost tourism and the local economy. The guest houses at these dams that supply drinking water to Mumbai are until now only used by state officials or guests of the government.Officials of the BMC did not want to speak on the issue at this juncture. Meanwhile, back in July 2019, the BMC had shot down a proposal by local Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) corporator to introduce water sports such as scuba diving, water aerobics, water polo and boat racing at Powai lake. The proposal was rejected citing the presence of crocodiles in the lake.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mtdc-plans-crocodile-safari-in-powai-lake-seeks-mumbai-civic-body-nod-101614450070273.html
27-02-2021||Mumbai||Experts condemn appointment of RSS affiliate for implementation of NEP||Scientists and researchers from various institutes have raised objections over the decision of the ministry of education to appoint Bharatiya Shikshan Mandal to a Niti Aayog committee for implementation of the National Education Policy (NEP).Bharatiya Shikshan Mandal, which is an affiliate of the Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh (RSS), has been appointed by the ministry of education to a coordination committee for the implementation of the new NEP. It has now been conducting a host of webinars along with the Niti Aayog on implementation of the NEP at universities.Researchers, scholars, students and scientists from leading science and technology institutes, however, have opposed the ministry’s decision to entrust non-state dubious organisations the task of implementing the provisions of NEP. They have warned the government of the dangerous consequences of this decision.The Breakthrough Science Society (BSS), a voluntary organisation working towards the cause of science, culture and scientific outlook released a statement on Friday. “We are deeply shocked to learn that such an important task, which is supposed to be shouldered by government agencies with eminent educationists’ help, has been delegated to a private organisation with no proven track record of academic excellence. We anticipate that the exercise aims at pushing a specific agenda to mould the country’s educational edifice in a direction that would go against the scientific, secular and democratic ethos that are the hallmarks of any modern education system,” said the statement.The BSS has claimed that institutes such as the Indian Institutes of Technology (IIT), National Institutes of Technology (NIT) and Indian Institutes of Science Education and Research (IISER) have been directed by the ministry of education to ‘voluntarily’ participate in the events to be conducted by Bharatiya Shikshan Mandal.“The government has no right to disburse public funds to foster the questionable activities of such dubious organisations,” said Soumitro Banerjee, general secretary of BSS and professor in the physical sciences department of IISER Kolkata.“Involving non-state actors in higher education is not new and wrong per se. However, there are always some concerns about the procedures of delegation, regulation, and accountability. Government and institutions of eminence should be discrete in choosing the non-state actors for implementing the provisions of NEP 2020,” said a research scholar from IIT-Bombay, on the condition of anonymity.While condemning the private organisations’ ‘intrusion with a definite educational planning and implementation agenda’, the BSS has demanded that scientists and educationists be involved in helping the government with the task.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/experts-condemn-appointment-of-rss-affiliate-for-implementation-of-nep-101614449949541.html
27-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: BMC files police complaint against 3 more marriage halls for flouting Covid-19 rules||Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Friday night lodged a police complaint against three more marriage halls in the Bandra area for flouting Covid-19 rules. The halls are accused of hosting over 200 people when only 50 persons per ceremony are allowed, not wearing face masks, and not maintaining social distancing. The first information report (FIR) was lodged at the Vakola police station by the health department of the H/East ward under sections 188 and 269 of the Indian Penal Code, which prescribes punishment of up to six months of imprisonment, or a fine, or both.The Yashodhan Marriage Hall, the Gurunanak Hall, and Noor Marriage Hall are all located on CST Road in Kalina. During a surprise inspection, health department officials found all three marriage halls hosting over 200 to 300 people at a wedding ceremony, many of whom were not wearing face masks, and social distancing was not maintained.Over the past week, BMC has been cracking down heavily on banquet and marriage halls hosting wedding ceremonies, and on restaurants, bars, pubs, and malls in the city. A senior civic official said, “All ward officials have been instructed to make a list of all bookings in marriage halls for the next few months, and to conduct surprise inspections to ensure Covid-19 rules are followed. If they are found to be flouting rules, action will be taken as per the provisions of the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897.”Two weeks ago, municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal directed the BMC to conduct surprise inspections at these venues. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray also asked BMC in a review meeting taken earlier this week, to strengthen action against venues flouting Covid-19 rules, in light of the spurt in cases in the past week.Since the beginning of the lockdown, BMC has fined 1,676,640 people for not wearing face masks in public places and at gatherings, and have collected ₹338,935,600 in fine ( ₹200 per case). Of these, in the past two days, 15,283 people were fined and a total of ₹3,056,600 was collected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-bmc-files-police-complaint-against-3-more-marriage-halls-for-flouting-covid-19-rules-101614449890177.html
27-02-2021||Other||Pune woman’s suicide: Shiv Sena minister Sanjay Rathod could be on his way out||Mumbai Shiv Sena minister Sanjay Rathod, who is facing allegations in a suicide case, could be on his way out.A senior Shiv Sena functionary said that chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray has made up his mind to take action against Rathod and an announcement on his resignation could be made before the budget session of the state legislature that begins on Monday.“CM is likely to ask Rathod to step down pending an inquiry into the case. Though several Sena ministers are of the opinion that Rathod shouldn’t be dropped till the ongoing police probe is completed, Thackeray wants his scalp as the issue has become a major embarrassment for him as well as MVA (Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi) government,” the leader said, adding, “he is also irked with the show of strength put up by Rathod on Tuesday.”Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has intensified the attack on the government over the issue. State BJP chief Chandrakant Patil on Saturday announced that party legislators will not allow the functioning of the budget session in Mumbai.“If Rathod is not asked to resign before Monday and if Thackeray does not come clear on this case, we will not let the legislature function,” Patil said while addressing media persons.Shiv Sena Member of Parliament (MP) Sanjay Raut on Saturday had indicated that Rathod could be on his way out.“He [Thackeray] has not shut his eyes. CM is watching what is happening and he will take the right decision at an appropriate time. The victim’s family will get justice,” said Raut.Rathod, who handles the forest portfolio in Thackeray’s cabinet, is linked to the February 8 suicide case of a 23-year-old Pune woman. BJP alleged that the woman was in a relationship with Rathod and he should be booked in the case. Several audio clips related to the woman have gone viral in the past few days. BJP has alleged that one of the persons in an audio clip is Rathod. The minister has insisted that he is not guilty and that the truth would come out during the police investigation.BJP leader Chitra Wagh on Saturday questioned Thackeray over his silence on the issue.“You would have torn him apart had you not been on the CM’s chair. I heard there is pressure on you to not sack Rathod,” alleged Wagh, adding that MVA parties (Sena, Nationalist Congress Party and Congress) were shielding a minister who should be booked in the case.While addressing a press conference, Wagh alleged that the case is not being investigated thoroughly. She further said that the Maharashtra government is shielding Rathod.“Despite substantial proof against him [Rathod], no action has been taken against him. In fact, the police have not even registered a first information report in this case. There are 45 missed calls in Rathod’s name on the victim’s phone,” Wagh said.On Tuesday, NCP chief Sharad Pawar had met Thackeray over the issue. According to party insiders, Pawar advised Thackeray to drop Rathod, as the issue was damaging the reputation of MVA government. However, Thackeray was hesitant to do so as several Sena ministers had opposed action against Rathod. They pointed out that NCP had not sacked party minister Dhananjay Munde when he was accused of rape by the sister of a woman he was in a relationship with. Munde, the social justice minister in Thackeray’s cabinet, ducked the action against him as the woman later retracted her statement. “The ministers also pointed out that none of BJP ministers, except Eknath Khadse, were sacked, even though serious allegations were made against them during BJP-led government in the state between 2014 and 2019,” said a top Sena leader. However, the details of the case that are now in public domain have already become embarrassing for the MVA and Thackeray is under tremendous pressure to drop Rathod, he added.After his name cropped up in the case, Rathod made it further difficult for his party. He went missing and then resurfaced after 15 days on Tuesday at a place of religious significance for his community at Washim in Vidarbha region. His supporters staged a show of strength with hundreds of people from his Banjara community came to extend their support for him, in violation of Covid-19 social distancing norms.This irked Thackeray, who directed chief secretary Sanjay Kumar to conduct a probe through local administration and fix the responsibility on the guilty.“CM is unhappy over the violation of Covid-19 norms in the current situation. He will take action,”Raut said.Meanwhile, activists of BJP’s women’s wing staged demonstrations across the state, demanding action against Rathod. According to Patil, agitations were held at 100 places in the state and they would continue till Rathod is sacked and case is filed against him. The party’s youth wing will stage protests on March 3, followed by demonstrations by the other backward classes (OBC) cell, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pune-woman-s-suicide-shiv-sena-minister-sanjay-rathod-could-be-on-his-way-out-101614449590174.html
27-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Two acquitted of molesting minor girl||A 21-year-old Thane resident and his friend were recently acquitted of charges for molesting a 13-year-old girl in an amusement park in November 2017, based on a conversation between the two on a social networking site. The minor had alleged that the incident took place when she had gone to an amusement park in a school picnic on November 20, 2017. She claimed that when she was waiting for her friends, two men — Bharat Nadar, 21, and Afroz Shaikh, 24 — caught hold of her. Nadar allegedly tried to hug her while Shaikh pushed her towards Nadar.After hearing her scream, teachers came to her rescue. The principal then alerted the police, following which the accused were booked for molestation.During trial, Nadar examined himself as a defence witness and claimed that the minor and he knew each other since 2015. He further said that when her family members learnt about it, her brother had assaulted her. Nadar presented details of their chat on a social networking site as an evidence to prove that the two knew each other and that the girl liked him. He also said the girl had called him at the park to meet her. He also submitted call records to the court.He alleged that the two were taking pictures when a teacher caught hold of them and a false story was created. He also claimed that both he and his friend were beaten up by the teachers.After considering this, the court acquitted the two and observed, “The accused Bharat had proved that he was in contact with girl and she used to send him messages from the Facebook account of her mother and she also used to call him from the mobile of her friend. No doubt, the girl has denied all these contentions of the accused in her cross examination. However, accused Bharat Nadar has specifically proved it by giving evidence on oath. So, it creates doubt about story of prosecution.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-two-acquitted-of-molesting-minor-girl-101614448929925.html
27-02-2021||Patna||Bihar to begin registration for 3rd phase of Covid-19 vaccination from March 1||Registration for the third-phase of the Covid-19 vaccination, targeting around 1.60 crore people, in Bihar will begin from March 1. This phase will include people ageing 60 years and above and those in the 45-59-year age group with serious co-morbidities.The earliest slots of vaccination are available from March 2, depending on when the CoWIN 2.0 portal goes live, said health officials on Saturday.It will take a minimum of 24 hours to get a person inoculated after the registration once the portal goes live.“We may have a dry run on Sunday before the CoWIN 2.0 portal goes live. The dry run planned for Saturday did not take place because of technical issues,” said Manoj Kumar, executive director of the State Health Society, Bihar.Also read: Fake Co-Win site surfaces as Centre is all set to open registration for vaccinesThe government has fixed a price of ₹250 per dose for those inoculating at private health facilities, while the vaccine will be administered free of cost at public health facilities.“Those who want to be vaccinated at private centres have to pay an administrative charge of ₹100 in addition to the vaccine cost of ₹150 per dose,” he added.Any complaint about a private health centre overcharging people for vaccination can be registered on 104. The government will then initiate action to disempanel the facility from the Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (PM-JAY), also referred to as the Ayushman Bharat, or the Central Government Health Scheme (CGHS) — the two benchmarks for private facilities to be enrolled as a session site (vaccination centre).The government has made Aadhaar and mobile number mandatory for vaccination as it would be based on the one-time password (OTP).“We shall not allow any other government identity other than Aadhaar barring exceptional cases. One mobile number can be used to register a maximum of four family members, provided some of the mandatory fields, other than the name of father, husband and address, were different,” said Kumar.The state health department has identified 750 health facilities, including 50 private centres for the first day of the upcoming phase of vaccination. Bihar has a total of 258 private facilities which qualify as vaccination centres.“To begin with, we will have at least one private centre per district (Bihar has 38 districts) and nine in Patna. We plan to scale up the number of facilities to 1,000 by March 15 and have 1,200 centres between March 16 and 31. We further plan to get the number up to 1,500 between April 1 and 15 and eventually up to 1,600 between April 16 and 30, depending upon the response of the people,” added Kumar.A person seeking to enrol for vaccination, either through the CoWIN portal or the Ayushman Bharat app, will have the option to choose the date and time slot for vaccination at a convenient centre. They will, however, have no choice to choose from the two vaccines — Covishield and Covaxin which are approved by the Drug Controller General of India.Those who fail to turn up for vaccination after registration will have the option to re-register after cancelling the previous registration. This also means that one person will not be able to simultaneously enrol at different centres.Beneficiaries will also have the option to choose a different session site for the second dose of the two-dose vaccination cycle after 28 days of the first shot - taking the first dose at a private centre and the second dose at a public facility.Healthcare workers and frontline workers, who comprise the priority group, will have to pay the requisite fee of ₹250 per dose of vaccination if they wanted to get themselves vaccinated at a private health facility after March 1, said Manoj Kumar, executive director, State Health Society, Bihar.“We have vaccinated 85 per cent of healthcare workers (HCWs) while the exercise of administering the first dose of vaccine to frontline workers (FLWs) will end on March 6. They will now have to pay for the vaccine if they want to get themselves inoculated at a private facility after March 1,” said Kumar.Bihar has registered 4.68 lakh HCWs and 2.71 lakh FLWs. Of them, 3,99,831 HCWs had taken the first dose and 79,212 the second dose of vaccine. In the case of FLWs, 1,60,496 had taken the first dose. Bihar has so far received 23,33,880 doses of the vaccine of which 6,64,650 had been consumed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-to-begin-registration-for-3rd-phase-covid-19-vaccination-from-march-1-101614448747360.html
27-02-2021||Chandigarh||Navigating loneliness in life’s twilight||It is man’s nature to be gregarious. We live in a family and community and have friends. However, how intense our relationship is with our friends and relatives is a matter of individual choice. Living alone is like solitary confinement, which is nothing short of punishment.I grew up in a well-knit family and my circle of friends burgeoned through school, college and professional training, and after retirement an altogether new group of locals became part of my life. At the end of the day, a few close friends are what matter the most. When one is alone or feeling low, one can always approach a friend, who not only listens to you but also boosts your morale by providing the right counselling. Thus, our life has a strong mooring in society.Life in Canada: A double-edged swordAt the age of 76, I decided to move to Canada to join our son and his family. While I am fortunate to have a loving family, a lavish lifestyle, best of food and clothes and top-of-the-line cars, living abroad has so many other benefits such as no pollution, non-adulterated food and availability of a wide variety of food and fruits. The roads are well maintained, and traffic is extremely disciplined, which makes driving a safe and enjoyable experience. Wherever I go, be it a store, an office, bank or clinic, the customer service is par excellence. Healthcare is of superior quality. Though the weather is cold for us, houses and commercial establishments are temperature controlled in both winter and summer.Despite all the merits, I don’t have any friends here. Furthermore, socialising has been temporarily suspended because of Covid-19. I feel all the more isolated as I cannot go anywhere. However, things are bound to gradually open up. Having spent three-quarters of my life in India, adapting to a new lifestyle and change of environment is challenging.Difficulty in making new friendsI tried to catch up with a couple of old acquaintances here but did not get a very encouraging response. After all, friendships cannot be forged overnight and have to be nurtured for years. Most people here are from rural areas of Punjab and are neither likeminded nor educated.How much television can one watch or waste time on social media? Not being free to go out to visit a friend or relative gives me a feeling of helplessness. I miss the unbridled freedom of getting into my own car and going wherever I want. I miss going to the bank, grocer, mechanic, cobbler, chemist, milk vendor and other places, which kept me usefully occupied. Life back in India had some purpose and direction. In Canada, I have no regular activity. My existence seems aimless and rudderless, which I fear will age me faster.Physical comforts and luxuries give us temporary satisfaction but food for soul and mind is also very essential. Mental wellbeing comes from a conducive environment and immediate company, which I crave. I feel a vacuum within me, and I am torn apart in this turmoil, unable to fathom which is a better world for me to live in at twilight of my life!(The writer is retired wing commander who is currently based in Canada)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/navigating-loneliness-in-life-s-twilight-101614448690026.html
27-02-2021||Mumbai||IIT-Bombay awards 123 PhD degrees in interim virtual convocation ceremony||The Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B) on Saturday awarded 198 degrees including 123 PhD degrees and several dual degrees to students in an interim convocation ceremony. The event was conducted in a hybrid mode (3D virtual reality enabled) along with only a few degree recipients, their family members and officials from the institute.Interim convocation ceremony is conducted by the institute for students who request for their degrees earlier than the annual convocation, in order to pursue jobs or higher education elsewhere. Degrees were conferred upon only those students who have already completed their requirements during the period from August 2020 to February 2021.Last year, the same event had conferred 152 PhD degrees to students along with several other dual degrees. “It is a matter of great satisfaction to the institute that nearly 140 students could complete their PhD during this difficult time. The adaptability and resilience shown by students and staff is remarkable,” said Subhasis Chaudhuri, director of the institute.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/iitbombay-awards-123-phd-degrees-in-interim-virtual-convocation-ceremony-101614448630602.html
27-02-2021||City||Bhubaneswar hottest city in India for 4th day in a row||For the fourth day in a row, Bhubaneswar continued to be the hottest city in India as it recorded a maximum day temperature of 40.6 degrees Celsius on Saturday. The city set a new record of the daily highest maximum temperature in February in the last 5 years."Temperature in Bhubaneswar and few other places in Odisha is likely to rise by 5 degrees Celsius in next 2-3 days. The reason for rise in temperature is the lack of moisture in the middle and upper atmosphere and less humidity in the lower atmosphere. Solar radiation is hitting the ground more effectively. People need to take precautionary measures while going out after 11 am," said HR Biswas, regional director of Meteorological Centre, Bhubaneswar.On Wednesday, Bhubaneswar recorded 38 degrees Celsius, the highest in India while on Thursday and Friday it recorded 39.4 and 40.4 degrees Celsius respectively, against the highest in the country.The highest temperature of Bhubaneswar in February was recorded in 1963 when the mercury climbed to 42.7 degrees Celsius.Also read: Fake Co-Win site surfaces as Centre is all set to open registration for vaccinesThe state government has already rescheduled classes for 9-12 to morning hours from March 1 due to the rising temperature.In 2019, a study conducted by the Climate Impact Lab in collaboration with the Tata Centre for Development at the University of Chicago predicted that the number of extremely hot days in Odisha would increase by 30 times from 1.62 in 2010 to 48.05 by 2100 if greenhouse gas emissions continue to grow at current rates till the end of the century.The study, the first in a series of findings estimating the human and economic costs of climate change and weather shocks in India, predicted that Odisha is likely to see a 3.32°C rise in average summer temperature from 28.87°C in 2010 to 32.19°C by 2100. "It is far higher than the national average increase from about 24°C to about 28°C by the end of the century," said Amir Jina, assistant professor at the Harris Public Policy and researcher at the Climate Impact Lab.Another study on changing trends of temperature in Bhubaneswar by Binodini Majhi and Krishna Chandra Rath in 2018 found that mean of monthly maximum temperature in Bhubaneswar between 1970 and 2015 increased at a faster rate than the average temperature and minimum temperature. The analysis found that monthly mean temperature has positively increased for all months in 45 years. The highest increase in temperature occurred in March.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhubaneswar-hottest-city-in-india-for-4th-day-in-a-row-101614448278188.html
27-02-2021||Noida||GB Nagar records Covid-19 cases in double digits after 21 days||NOIDA: With 11 Covid-19 cases on Friday, Gautam Budh Nagar recorded positive cases in double digits after 21 days, according to the state government’s Covid bulletin. In the last three days, the district has reported 25 positive cases, including six new cases on Saturday.With 65 active cases till Saturday, GB Nagar has climbed to sixth position in the state in terms of active cases.GB Nagar district magistrate Suhas LY said it appears that the Covid-19 curve in the district is going down significantly. “With 25,348 infected people already cured out of 25,504 total cases, the recovery rate of the district has gone up to 99.38% now. Even the case fatality rate is 0.35%, which is much better than state’s CFR of 1.44%. But, since the infection has still a fluctuating trend, we need to observe the curve,” he said. The DM further said that the district health officials are keeping a constant vigil on proper surveillance and testing. “People should continue wearing masks for at least a year and not ignore the initial symptoms of the disease. The vaccination has begun, but it doesn’t mean that one should ignore the social distancing rules. We need to take the virus seriously,” he said. Echoing similar views, chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Deepak Ohri said that the disease will not vanish until the last man is inoculated. “What we need to focus on is social distancing behaviour. People should continue following it and those having any symptoms should isolate themselves,” he said. On Friday, the Uttar Pradesh government had directed the district officials to conduct rapid antigen tests for all people arriving in the state from Maharashtra and Kerala through air, train or road routes. The state health department has made a week-long quarantine mandatory for symptomatic persons arriving from these two states even if they are found negative in the RT-PCR test.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/gb-nagar-records-covid-19-cases-in-double-digits-after-21-days-101614448509434.html
27-02-2021||Chandigarh||In a first, 60 NGOs come together at expo in Ludhiana||With an aim to bring non-government organisations (NGO) in the city on a common platform and promote the spirit of volunteerism and philanthropy, the first-ever NGO expo in the state was organised at Nehru Rose Garden on Saturday on the occasion of World NGO Day.Around 60 NGOs participated in the expo which was organised by Cityneeds Group. The NGOs apprised visitors of the works being carried out by them. Cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu was the chief guest and mayor Balkar Sandhu, deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma and councillor Mamta Ashu also took part in the event.From helping the disabled and underprivileged children, to helping the elderly, donating blood and extending help to stray dogs, the NGOs invited the visitors to join their cause. Yoga sessions, drawing competition for children and dance performances were also held.The participating NGOs said through this platform, they will be able to spread awareness among residents regarding their work. Government departments, including traffic police and District Legal Services Authority, had also set up stalls to spread awareness on the services being provided by them.Pawan, a representative of “Ek Jot Viklang Bachon Ka School”, located behind Westend Mall, said the NGO worked for the betterment of disabled students and helped them learn new skills to earn a livelihood. “We are taking care of around 70 children, many of whom cannot even walk. Donations are always welcome and there are many articles made by the students, which visitors can buy. The expo is a great platform for us as more people might get associated with us,” he shared.GL Arora, adviser of Senior Citizens Council of Ludhiana, said, “Not only to attract more volunteers, it is also a good platform to learn about different NGOs working in various fields.” Rahul Verma, a member of Sambhav, said the event was aimed towards encouraging the spirit of volunteerism and philanthropy, and promoting social entrepreneurship.Cityneeds recently launched a website, www.cityneeds.info, to connect local NGOs with volunteers, donors and district administration. Cabinet minister Ashu said that more such expos will be organised in the future and the administration will extend its full support to the cause.With Municipal Corporation (MC) working to encourage waste segregation and reduce household waste generation, the civic body also established a stall in the expo urging the residents to make compost from kitchen waste. MC joint commissioner Swati Tiwana, said, “Specially-prepared earthen pots to ready compost from kitchen waste were distributed by MC during the expo. We also displayed some artwork created out of waste to encourage residents to adopt recycling.” Maheshwar Singh, an MC official, said compost can be made by keeping the waste in thespecially prepared earthen pot with little holes at the bottom for 45 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/in-a-first-60-ngos-come-together-at-expo-in-ludhiana-101614448451147.html
27-02-2021||Noida||Hapur gang-rape: Gang leader habitual offender, say cops||Soon after the arrest of the three suspects in the Hapur gang-rape case, the police said the modus-operandi was similar to the a few that were committed in the past – a gang would pick up victims from the Lal Kuan intersection at night, overpower them, take them to an isolated place, rob and then release them.“They made sure that they did not injure their victims, so that the matter does not reach the police. They even offered victims money to travel back to Lal Kuan. In this gang-rape case they offered her a pack of biscuits and hailed an auto-rickshaw for her,” said a Hapur police officer, who did not wish to be named.Late on February 24, a 30-year-old woman hired an auto-rickshaw from Lal Kuan to her home in Greater Noida but the driver and two other men posing as passengers allegedly took her to Hapur’s Galand instead where they raped and robbed her before letting her go. She then approached the police.The prime suspect is 26-year-old Ankit who was arrested along with 25-year-old Mohammad Aquil and 22-year-old Akash Singh.Police said the Ghaziabad police had arrested Ankit in 2013 for allegedly kidnapping and raping a 20-year-old. He allegedly confessed to the Hapur gang-rape, and also of committing a similar crime over a month ago near Galand, but the survivor in the case did not approach the police.“We suspect that they may have committed similar crimes earlier. We will question them more,” said Neeraj Kumar Jadaun, superintendent of police (Hapur).Police said the suspects allegedly operated from the Lal Kuan intersection on NH-9 where they found “easy targets”, such as people who wanted to go to Ghaziabad, Gautam Budh Nagar or Hapur.The scene of the February 24 crime at Galand was about 20km from Lal Kuan on NH-9 and a large part of the route through Kavi Nagar and Masuri police station areas in Ghaziabad district.Kalanidhi Naithani, senior superintendent of police (Ghaziabad) did not respond to repeated calls.“So far, no other victim has approached us with a complaint. If anyone has fallen victim to the gang, they should come forward and register their complaint. Their identities will be kept confidential. The SHO of Masuri police station was suspended as he did not inform senior officers when the woman approached him on the night of February 24. We got the information of the incident about 26 hours later, through the media,” said Iraj Raja, superintendent of police (rural) – Ghaziabad.The 30-year-old had approached the Masuri police station around 11.30pm while her case came to the knowledge of the Hapur police around 3.30pm the next day.Nipun Agarwal, superintendent of police (city 1), said more personnel will be deployed and it will be ensured that auto-rickshaws plying illegally from Hapur are fined and seized. “We will inquire more about the getting details of the suspects from Hapur police. We along with the traffic police officials will ensure that autos from Hapur are checked and safety of women will be ensured,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/hapur-gang-rape-gang-leader-habitual-offender-say-cops-101614448389519.html
27-02-2021||Noida||Political parties using farmers’ protest to hold rallies, says BKU leader Rakesh Tikait||Ghaziabad: The Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) national spokesperson Rakesh Tikait on Saturday said at UP-Gate that none of the political parties have the “courage” to take out rallies on their own and have to invoke the farmers’ protest for holding meetings. Tikait has been holding different rallies and panchayats in different states around the national Capital. He was at UP Gate addressing farmers on the future course of agitation.“They will have to invoke the name of farmers. Paap kiya hai sab ne (all have committed sin). They will have hold their meetings (rallies) on the name of farmers. Parties forming governments will have to become the face of farmers and have to work for the cause of farmers. They will have to include farmers in their manifestoes. Otherwise, we will not sit quite as farmers have become aware. We will go across the country,” Tikait said Off late, many political parties have held rallies and others have proposed their rallies, particularly in UP ahead of upcoming panchayat elections in the state. Tikait so far has conducted various rallies to garner support in states like Haryana, Rajasthan and UP. The BKU has also released his schedule of rallies for the month of March. The schedule includes his rallies in states like UP, Rajasthan, Haryana, Karnataka, Telengana, Madhya Pradesh and even Udham Singh district in Uttarakhand from February 28 to March 22. The list, however, does not include West Bengal and Assam. He had said that farmers will go to poll-bound states of West Bengal and Assam as farmers there are also not getting the proper price of their crop. The Election Commission Friday evening announced the schedule of election dates for Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Assam and Puducherry. The poll bound West Bengal is scheduled to hold elections in eight phases starting March 27 to April 29. “Some of our people will be going to West Bengal on March 15-16 and hold some conferences. Thereafter, we will also go. Its not like we will not go West Bengal and Assam. We will go there as farmers in those states are not getting proper price. I will also remain present at UP Gate and the agitation will go on as usual. There will be no shortage of gathering here. People take this agitation forward. Our agitation will continue till 2024,” Tikait said. “If the government doesn’t talk to us, we have plans to go to different states across the country and meet farmers. I say that the agitations will be taken to other states in order to enforce government policies. Our point is to raise issues of farmers and not to get involved in any politics during elections, but farmers’ issues are our priority,” Tikait added. He also said that haystack chopping machines will also be installed at various borders and depending on the direction of air and thereafter particles of haystack will go to Delhi. “Our call to Parliament will be taken up by our core-committee at Singhu Border,” he added further. The farmers are camping at the UP-Gate since November 28, 2020 and demanding repeal of three farm laws and a new law on minimum support price. The last talks between the farmers’ unions and the government were held on January 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/political-parties-using-farmers-protest-to-hold-rallies-says-bku-leader-rakesh-tikait-101614448329428.html
27-02-2021||Chandigarh||Roundabout: Poetics of protest - then and now||A poem from the north-east defines the very spirit and soul of ‘poetry as protest’ as we see it unfold over thousands of years in the Indian subcontinent, which has a long history of difference and dissent. A glimpse of the poem before one goes to the poet: Do not ask me how I have been/ After all I am not alone/ For, even after the last supper/ I have’nt bid adieu/ Nor could I take my leave/ I haven’t laughed since Auschwitz/ Nor cried either...These lines by Assam’s most cherished living poet Nilmony Phukan in one fine sweep, using minimal words, takes the reader through a vast canvas of collective experience from the crucifixion of Christ and the tyranny of the notorious Auschwitz concentration camps of Nazi Germany in occupied Poland during World War II where millions met their end. This poem is a window, through which one looks at the long history of protest poetry in the Indian sub-continent in varied tones and tenors to define aesthetics of a culture that has always looked up at the rebels, the poets and the lovers as prophets of the humankind.Rhythms of resistance Poetry has always provided rhythms of resistance all over the world and more so in the ancient civilisation of the Indian subcontinent, which has seen thousands of years of poetic resistance, which travels through literature in myriad languages as well as the robust oral culture.This poetic practice begins with the ancient era, moves through the medieval times and is prominently present even now when the popular perception of the poet as a hero is considered lost. The subcontinent, with its plural tradition and sensibilities, has never shied away from differences and arguments. Examples of poetic dissent are to be found in Vedic hymns and verses of the early classical poets and in the Bhakti cult with Kabir and Guru Nanak becoming voices of new thought. Voices of women too have been prominent in different ages from Akka Mahadevi to Lal Ded and Mirabai. Sufi Islam as it evolved in India and the rest of South India saw great Sufi poets such as Amir Khusro, Dara Shikoh, Sheikh Farid and Bulleh Shah. Songs and poems of protest were a celebratory part of the freedom struggle in India. Today, poetry has accompanied all people’s movements, be it poets calling for a more humane order, words uttered against war or women claiming half the sky.Liberating power of words Recent times have seen words exercising their power to liberate and take people away from fear to freedom of expression. Once again, the verses of radical poets of the 20th century such as Faiz Ahmad Faiz, Sahir Ludhianvi and their ilk were evoked. At times it led to many muddles such as the half-baked interpretation of the classic poet Faiz as was the case with his poem ‘Hum Dekhenge’. Those not well-versed with poetry raised alarm when students recited the famous poem in IIT Kanpur, taking it to be anti-Hindu and communal whereas it was a protest poem written many decades ago against the dictatorial regime in Pakistan.In these times, we have also seen young poets rising from among engineers and technocrats. Pertinent were the poems of Hussain Haidry who took upon himself to give a brilliant description of the Hindustani Muslim. And of course, Aamir Aziz who came out with a heartfelt poem after the crushing of the protest against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act at Shaheen Bagh. An English translation of Aziz’s poem Sab Yaad Rakha Jayega was recited by none other than Pink Floyd’s co-founder and guitarist Roger Waters making international news with the young poet’s powerful words: You write jokes in courts/ We will write justice on the walls.So, let no one mock the mad man, the lover or the poet for it is such passion that is woven into words to make a change for the better. Poetry is certainly not a leisure nor a luxury but a medium for resisting oppression and injustice.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/roundabout-poetics-of-protest-then-and-now-101614448209968.html
27-02-2021||Noida||After change of heart, contract killer tells Ghaziabad woman plot of her murder; husband arrested||Ghaziabad: The Ghaziabad police arrested a 35-year-old man on Saturday for allegedly planning to kill his 30-year-old wife and their four-year-old child. The man’s friend was also arrested over his alleged involvement while the contract killer hired is on the run.The prime suspect, identified as Ajay Yadav, is an MBA and a senior marketing representative with a pharma company in Ghaziabad. His 37-year-old friend Ram Prakash is a resident of Vijay Nagar. Prakash allegedly roped in contract killer Gajraj Singh, a native of Vijay Nagar, in a plan to kill Yadav’s wife, police said.“They hired Singh for killing Yadav’s wife and child by staging a road accident and offered ₹10 lakh to the contract killer. Yadav had taken an insurance in the name of his wife in 2020. She had no details with her.... Contract killer Singh followed the woman outside her house several times, but she was her with her child,” said Ajay Kumar Singh, SHO, Kavi Nagar police station.Police have arrested Yadav and Prakash. The contract killer, who is on the run, had a change of heart when he saw the woman with the child, and narrated to her the conspiracy hatched by her husband, police said.“Singh decided not to kill the mother-child duo after he had a change of heart. On Thursday (February 25), he visited the woman’s house and told her the murder conspiracy hatched by her husband. Initially, she did not believe him, but he showed her a recorded conversation and videos. She then approached the police, and an FIR was registered,” he added.An FIR was registered against the three suspects under Indian Penal Code (IPC) Section 115 (abetment of offence punishable with death or imprisonment for life).“During interrogation, Yadav did not reveal much about the reason behind his attempt to kill his wife,” the SHO added.The couple had a love marriage five years ago, and lives in Mahendra Enclave near Shastri Nagar in Ghaziabad. The woman, a native of Bihar, earlier worked at an electronics company in Ghaziabad and met Yadav when she had gone to find a rented accommodation in Mahendra Enclave. Police sources said Yadav allegedly had an extramarital affair and “his family was annoyed with his wife as her parents did not give much dowry at the time of marriage”.The two suspects were arrested while they were going to meet Singh to provide him with weapons and cartridges so he could take another shot at killing Yadav’s wife. Both of them were arrested from a marriage hall near Diamond Flyover in Kavi Nagar on Friday evening, police said.“The contract killer is absconding, and police teams are trying to trace him at the earliest. The woman’s husband and his friend were arrested,” said circle officer (city 2) Awaneesh Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/after-change-of-heart-contract-killer-tells-ghaziabad-woman-plot-of-her-murder-husband-arrested-101614447909400.html
27-02-2021||Noida||BTech student beaten up, five students booked||Greater Noida: A 20-year-old BTech student was allegedly beaten up by five other students when he was coming out of an examination hall at a private college in Greater Noida. The victim, Rahul Sharma, received injuries to his face and head as the suspects punched him and also hit him with an iron rod, alleged his family.Rahul, a native of Bulandshahr, studies in a private college in Greater Noida. Rekha Sharma, Rahul’s mother who is a sub-inspector in Agra, on Thursday filed a complaint at Knowledge Park police station. She said that her son’s semester examination is being held in another college in Knowledge Park. “On Tuesday, Rahul had appeared in an examination in the morning shift and exited the hall at 12.45pm. Five suspects held my son and started beating him,” the mother said in the complaint. The suspects also tried to abduct him in a car, but his classmates reached the spot and rescued him, she said.Rekha said that Rahul had intervened in a friend’s dispute a few days ago due to which the suspects attacked him.Varun Pawar, SHO of Knowledge Park police station, said that a case was registered against five persons under sections 147 (rioting), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (intentional insult) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of IPC. “The suspects fled the spot after the crime. We talked to the victim, but he did not reveal the exact reason which led to the incident. The victim was discharged from hospital after primary treatment, and he is appearing in the examination for rest of the papers,” he said.Pawar said that a police team scanned the CCTV camera footage from the spot and got some leads in the case. “Primary investigation shows the suspects are also students in the same college, and they are known to the victim. We will soon arrest the suspects,” Pawar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/btech-student-beaten-up-five-students-booked-101614447789315.html
27-02-2021||Noida||Tenant attacks landlord when asked to vacate; case filed||Greater Noida: A landlord was allegedly attacked by his tenant when asked to vacate his property, in Greater Noida’s Sector Beta 2. The police have registered a case and launched an investigation.The landowner, Sanjeev Sharma, is a homeopathic doctor, and also runs a chemist shop in Jagat Farms, he said. He owns the apartment complex building where he lives in one of the units and leases out the others, he added. Sharma said that 20 days ago the tenant had allegedly approached him to get a flat on rent. “I rented the flat to him and took his Aadhaar card for verification purposes,” Sharma said.However, in the last few days, Sharma said some tenants had complained over the suspects’ alleged “doubtful” activities. “He used to invite several friends and organise late-night parties. The other tenants were troubled due to his behaviour. On Wednesday, I asked him to vacate the flat,” he alleged.“On Thursday evening, I opened the door when the bell rang. The new tenant and his two accomplices were outside. He hit my head with an iron rod and I collapsed on to the floor,” he alleged.Sharma’s family rushed him to a private hospital and he was later discharged. He then filed a complaint at the Sector Beta 2 police station. Police investigation showed the suspect, from Meerut, worked in a shop at a mall in Greater Noida.Sujeet Upadhyaya, SHO Sector Beta 2 police station, said that a case has been registered against Kashyap and some unknown accomplices under Section 452 (house-trespass), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 504 (intentional insult) of IPC,” he said.Police said the suspect has fled with his belongings from the apartment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/tenant-attacks-landlord-when-asked-to-vacate-case-filed-101614447729389.html
27-02-2021||Chandigarh||Random forays: Masked conversations can be more revealing||To the discerning and observant individual, even a masked visage can convey a lot. In fact, the eyes have never had it so good (pun unintended)! After all, the eyes are the only visible expressionists of a persona which is hidden by the ubiquitous mask.The eyes of people who frequently smile, tend to light up freely whenever they do, even under a mask. But those who are loath to show their teeth even in normal times, are also the ones whose eyes appear dull under the mask.Everything depends, of course, on the inner citadel, the inner pitch, the inner environs that a human being carries within.The eyes could either be dancing around animatedly or sparkless and placid, easily indicating the state of mind of the masked one, unless he or she is ailing.Some people actually look better with a mask on. No offence meant. Their eyes are obviously their best facial feature. In fact, with their wrinkles and other ravages of time hidden away under a mask, several individuals look much younger with a mask on, than they actually are.Moustachioed and bearded men have suffered a great deal though. Months of being masked have left some of us utterly bereft of our usual auras. The hint of well-groomed hair on a man’s face can set some people’s pulses racing and other people’s hearts pounding. Quite the opposite may also happen, of course!It is in a longish conversation or interview that the full impact of a mask can be felt, though. The wearer tries his best to make an impact with words, hand movements and even body language, but without the inborn gift of facial expression, every individual may struggle to be the person he usually is.A masked conversation is much like an interaction on the phone, therefore, with the smile and the frown totally missing from the scene. The smell of coffee might do the trick at times, to kindle interest in what the other is saying, especially since the act of sipping coffee involves the uncovering of the lips at least.Several people wear invisible masks all their lives, of course. It is difficult to penetrate their minds and discover what they really mean when they say something. Many mothers suffer a great deal, for instance, but hardly let their little ones know what they are going through. The forced façade of happiness which some of them have to maintain is almost impossible to uncover. Their innermost angst is seldom on display.The voice is an amazing indicator of a human being’s mood, though. A quivering voice or a testy tone can give away hidden moods or feelings much more readily than a well-guarded facial veneer. The perceptive individual will therefore latch onto the faintest deviation from a normal tone to understand what a close one is going through. Men probably have a lot to learn from women in this regard. A lady can often see through a lot of intangible layers with consummate ease. Men usually fail to recognise such signs and would do well to be more watchful, especially where their partners’ moods are concerned. Even the recent expedition to planet Mars has not provided any answers to this imbalance, though we men have been alleged to belong to that land!Emotional intelligence undoubtedly plays a key role in understanding other people, mask or no mask. Those who are empathetic towards others and seldom bask in egotism are the ones who prove to be good company. Their levels of understanding the need for what to say, when and how, are much superior to those whose emotional quotient tends to be low.The times that we live in are multi-layered and multifaceted. In any case, no one, but a true saint, can claim to have unmasked the secrets of the universe. Some masks will stay on forever-more, it seems, even when pandemic necessitated cloth coverings have long been consigned to the waste bins en masse.American author, Lisa Mangum, said somewhat mysteriously that the best way to show our true selves is by wearing a mask. Be that as it may, a discerning individual can perhaps see through most masks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/random-forays-masked-conversations-can-be-more-revealing-101614447671587.html
27-02-2021||Noida||Prostitution ring running from guest house busted in Noida, seven nabbed||Noida: Seven men, including three customers, were arrested on Saturday for allegedly running a prostitution ring from a guest house in Noida’s Sector 12. Three women and a minor girl were rescued from the guest house, police said.According to police, a raid was conducted around 1.30pm at the guest house in block 1 of Sector 12 following a tip-off. “It is a three-storey house which was converted to a guest house by the tenant, Vishal. He was initially running a hotel, but then started renting out rooms by hour. The prostitution ring was being run since September last year,” said a senior police official.Following the raid, seven men, including Vishal, were taken into custody from the spot, police said, adding that the suspects were aware of the whole operation.“There were three women and a minor girl at the guest house,” said Kumar Ranvijay Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police, zone 1.Police are questioning the women for further information about the operation after which they will be sent to a rehabilitation centre, said the senior police official, adding that some used and unused contraceptives and liquor bottles were also recovered from the spot.“One of the guests had been staying there for the past 10 days. The minor girl had been brought from Bihar by a man, Rajan, on the pretext of getting her a job and then marrying her almost two months ago. Two women are from West Bengal while the fourth is also from Bihar. We have inputs that other women were also being brought to the establishment, and in some cases illicit activities were being done at other places as well depending on the demand,” said the official.Police said that most customers came in through online advertisements and word of mouth. Other suspects are being traced while a search is on for other women being forced to work there, said police.Singh said that the suspects are being booked under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and under the anti-human trafficking Act. “All necessary actions are being taken. The suspects are being questioned and will then be produced before a magistrate,” said the additional DCP.This is the third prostitution ring to be busted by the Noida police this month. On February 16, five persons, including a couple and three women, had been arrested for allegedly running a prostitution ring on the pretext of providing escort services and then robbing their customers. On February 3, 12 spas in a mall in Sector 18 were raided by the Noida police, of which one was found to be allegedly engaged in nefarious activities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/prostitution-ring-running-from-guest-house-busted-in-noida-seven-nabbed-101614447669334.html
27-02-2021||Noida||One more arrested in dry fruits fraud||: Police on Friday night arrested one more suspect of a gang involved in duping dry fruits traders. With this, five people have been arrested in the case in the past two months, police said.The suspect, identified as Sattan Yadav, is a close associate of the three masterminds in the dry fruits fraud which came to fore in December last year, police said. According to police, Yadav, a native of Hapur, had a reward of ₹25,000 on his arrest.Four people, including Mohit Goel, had been arrested by Sector 58 police in January in the case. Goel is also the alleged mastermind of the 2017 Freedom 251 Ringing Bells scam, in which victims were offered smartphones at ₹251. He was arrested on January 11, along with an accomplice, for allegedly duping wholesalers by quoting higher prices for dry fruits and spices and then defaulting on payments. A case was registered at Sector 58 police station in December last year. “Yadav was involved in the financial dealings of the company. He was wanted in the case,” said Kumar Ranvijay Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police, zone 1.Police officials said that Yadav was well aware of the fraud being done in the name of providing wholesale licences to dry fruit sellers. Yadav was nabbed from near a park in Sector 62 following a tip-off, police said, adding that he was produced before a magistrate and later sent to jail.One of the masterminds has a stay order from the court in this case, said police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/one-more-arrested-in-dry-fruits-fraud-101614447609321.html
27-02-2021||Delhi||Delhi gears up for bypolls in five municipal wards on Sunday||The stage is set for bypolls in five municipal wards in Delhi on Sunday with all three main contenders -- the Aam Aadmi Party, BJP and the Congress -- exuding confidence of emerging victorious.The bypolls are being seen as the semifinal ahead of the civic body elections for 272 wards of three municipal corporations in early 2022.According to the State Election Commission, around 2.42 lakh people are eligible to cast their votes in these municipal wards -- Rohini-C, Shalimar Bagh (North), Trilokpuri, Kalyanpuri and Chauan Banger.Voting will be held from 7.30 am to 5.30 pm. The results will be announced on March 3, officials said, adding that there are 327 polling stations. Twenty-six candidates are contesting the elections.Officials said that Covid-19 patients can vote during the last hour of polling following laid down guidelines.The AAP has claimed that it will make a clean sweep in the bypoll as Chief Minister Arvind Kerjiwal had recently asserted that the party can challenge the BJP while terming the Congress its "B team".The main candidates in the by-elections are Dhirendra from the Aam Aadmi Party, Siyaram Kanojia from the BJP and Dharampal Maurya from the Congress in the Kalyanpuri ward.Vijay Kumar from the AAP, Om Prakash Gugarwal from the BJP and Bal Kishan are contesting from Trilokpuri ward.Former AAP MLA Haji Ishraq Khan is pitted against Chaudhary Zubair Ahmad of the Congress and Nazir Ansari of the BJP from Chauhan Bamgar ward.These three wards are under the East Delhi Municipal Corporation. The AAP held these wards which were vacated after sitting councillors contested the assembly polls last year and became MLAs.From the Shalimarbagh North ward that fell vacant after the death of BJP councillor, the contest is between Surbhi Jaju of the BJP, Sunita Mishra of the AAP and Mamta of the Congress.The Rohini-C ward will witness a keen contest among former Bawana MLA Ramchandra of the AAP, Rajesh Goyal of the BJP and Mewati Barwala of the Congress.The AAP and the BJP have been attacking each other over a range of issues, including corruption, during the campaigning.Earlier this week, senior AAP leader Raghav Chadha had alleged that the BJP, ruling the three municipal corporations, has turned the city into a "heap of garbage".Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta said that the party will win all the five wards.The Congress leaders have already appealed to Delhiites to vote for the party candidates in the by-elections.Earlier in the day, the State Election Commission issued a show-cause notice to Principal Secretary (Revenue) Sanjeev Khirwar and two officers of the Directorate of Information and Publicity (DIP) seeking their reply on an advertisement on 20 per cent reduction in circle rates in the city.In the notice issued to Khirwar, DIP secretary Padmini Singla and director Manoj Kumar Dwivedi, the Commission said that, prima facie, the advertisement violates the model code of conduct.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-gears-up-for-bypolls-in-five-municipal-wards-on-sunday-101614447210042.html
27-02-2021||Chandigarh||Wildbuzz: Sweet, Semul spring||Tricity denizens are bitterly complaining about a prickly-warm February but birds, bees, deer and bats are relishing the early blooming of the queen of the jungle – the Semul (silk cotton) tree.The Semul stands out like a warm and welcoming lantern in a hard jungle where nectar and sweet flowers devoid of protective thorns are an exception. An astonishing array of birds flock to the Semul to sip nectar while bees and insects can’t seem to get enough of the sweetness of a Semul spring.On a brooding night, fruit bats clamber aboard Semul blooms like phantoms to nibble at its sugary, succulent petals and relish its nectar. Fallen Semul flowers are gobbled up by wandering deer and antelopes with childlike joy, as if free gulab jamuns were being distributed under a populist scheme!Sanjeev Iddalgi, general manager (manufacturing) with the Dabur factory at Baddi, went the extra mile to procure exquisite pictures of birds on Semul flowers. In his pictures taken at Bhoj Nagar, the largeness of the Valentine flower emulates the tree’s big and giving heart. The blooms dwarf the winged lovers of Semul perched over its beckoning bowls, which are cast in tints of waning vermilion. “I reached early morning as most birds feed then and the light is soft for a great photograph. The birds were so engrossed in Semul flowers that they were hardly disturbed by the photographers’ clicking. They seemed drunk on nectar; the tree was a tavern of nature’s intoxicating offers,” Iddalgi told this writer.One is tempted here to gently pollinate Khalil Gibran’s lines and create a variant theme: For the bird, the Semul is a fountain of life. And to the Semul, a bird is a messenger of love. And to both, the giving and receiving of pleasure is a need and an ecstasy.Tenderness in loveFor a wandering soul, a wondering eye and a wonderful open heart Sukhna Lake presents so much more than just migratory birds. A very touching and moving picture of a mother monkey with her young one at the regulator end was captured by a roving bird photographer, whose sensitivity to his subjects, be birds or anything else constrains him from venturing too close and causing disturbance. Lalit Mohan Bansal, a subdivisional engineer (SDE) with the Chandigarh engineering department, who is tasked with catering to the irrigation and drinking water needs of peripheral villages, was indulging in his hobby of photographing birds when this moment of maternal bliss tugged at his heart strings.Arguably, the most unconditional and purest love, Bansal titled his photograph with the words: “Motherhood — all love begins and ends there.” Bansal’s perspective was a refreshing, deeply empathetic one, and a departure from how humans tend to perceive monkeys as a source of fear because they can attack or vandalise our homes. But monkeys are creatures of intelligence and brimming emotions.“Meri duniya hai maa tera aanchal...the baby was feeling totally secure in his/her mother’s tender embrace. The baby did not feel there was any threat in the environment around him/her. However, the mother was very much aware that humans or dogs could endanger her baby. So, she blended her loving absorption with a roving, darting eye, much like security personnel guarding VVIPs,” Bansal told this writer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/wildbuzzsweet-semul-spring-101614447312294.html
27-02-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Higher Covid-19 positive test reports in private labs than in government labs||Private labs in Maharashtra have turned in more positive reports despite state-run ones carrying out a higher number of Covid-19 tests amid the outbreak, as per data compiled by the state health department.The positivity rate of private labs was 18.76 per cent compared to 12.61 per cent for government ones, with a possible reason being the former deploying more rapid antigen test kits, a senior official said."The idea was if an antigen tests returns positive, then the person can be subjected to an RT-PCR test for confirmation. Rapid antigen tests served as a quick mass surveillance tool to detect those who are possibly infected," he explained.Data compiled by the department showed that 60 per cent of the total testing in the state, which stands at 1,61,99,818 as on Saturday, was as per the RT-PCR method."The overall positivity rate in the state now is 13.25 per cent," he added.Dr Subhash Salunke, technical adviser to the state government, "Every rapid test that is positive should be followed by an RT-PCR test. It is standard procedure. There are chances of some lapses, but it was largely followed across the state."The number of tests per day in the state has increased from 35,000 to 80,000 since February 14 due to a spike in cases in some districts, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-more-positive-test-reports-in-private-labs-than-in-government-labs-101614446368841.html
27-02-2021||City||Odisha CM tables resolution on development of corridor around Puri temple||Days after the BJD and the BJP sparred on draft heritage bylaws on the 12th century Jagannath temple of Puri, Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Saturday presented a resolution in the state assembly on the ₹3,200 crore Shrimandira Parikarama Plan calling Lord Jagannath the symbol of Odia esteem and pride.“The greatest identity of Odia community is Lord Jagannath. Our history, culture, tradition and belief system are all centred on the Almighty. He is the symbol of Odia esteem and pride. Visiting the Jagannath Temple once in a lifetime and getting a glimpse of the Lord is the only prayer of millions of devotees. All devotees, who come to the Jagannath temple in Puri to see the Lord, have a desire in their hearts to behold the deities in a calm, beautiful and spiritual environment. It is the responsibility of all of us to come back with a divine feeling,” said Patnaik as opposition Congress and BJP welcomed the resolution for the development of the temple.Also read: On Balakot anniv, IAF video shows jets bombing target with Spice 2000 bombsAs per the Shrimandira Parikarama Plan, the entire area within 75-metres around the Jagannath Temple will be transformed into a heritage corridor to attract devotees from across the world.As per the Srimandir Parikrama project heritage, as many as 22 projects will be executed in three phases within a couple of years. The area around the temple would be divided into 9 zones.A 7-metre green buffer zone adjacent to the Meghanad wall would come up followed by a 10-metre-long Antar Parikrama which will be used for the ceremonial procession of the deities. Besides, there will also be an 8-metre-long outer pradikshyan for devotees and a 10-metre public conveyance zone having restrooms, drinking water fountain, information-cum-donation kiosks and shelter pavilions.There is also a provision of a 5-metre service lane for the maintenance of the corridor, a 4.5-metre dedicated shuttle-cum-emergency lane, a 7.5-metre mixed traffic lane to aid the movement of vehicles around the corridor and a seven-metre wide shaded footpath with trees.The eastern plaza of the corridor is proposed as a large open space.A reception centre with a capacity to house 6,000 devotees and a cloakroom facility for 4,000 families is also planned. The mutts will be developed in Kalingan style architecture. Around 15.65 acres of land has been acquired for the heritage corridor.Calling the Jagannath temple as a centre of Odisha's spiritual heritage, CM Patnaik said the state has inherited from generation to generation. "We have preserved this priceless treasure for our future descendants in the legacy. We have to look into the Shrimandira Parikrama Plan with this spirit and make it happen with collective efforts. We need to take a vow to complete the Shrimandira Parikrama Plan with dedication at the earliest. To give a chance to all Odias and devotees of Lord Jagannath who want to contribute to this sacred act.”Patnaik said three objectives were considered for Srimandir Parikrama Yojana that were recommended by justice BP Das Committee. The recommendations were — safety of Srimandir, safety of millions of devotees visiting the temple for darshan of deities and creation of a spiritual atmosphere for devotees.The resolution for the Jagannath temple comes in the backdrop of the draft heritage bylaw for Jagannath temple issued by the National Monument Authority kicking up a political storm last month with the BJD alleging that it would affect the proposed development plan of the area around the shrine. Following appeals from the BJD and the BJP, the NMA, earlier this month, withdrew the bylaws that would have stopped any new construction within 100-metre radius of the temple. The NMA also put on hold two other draft bylaws for Ananta Basudeva temple and Brahmeswar temple in Bhubaneswar that would have affected the development of the area around the 11th century Lingaraj temple."Instead of pitching Jagannath temple as a symbol of Odia pride and esteem and bring religion into state's political discourse, the BJD would do well by focussing on real issues like paddy procurement and unemployment plaguing the state. In Bengal, the BJP got an entry as Mamata Banerjee wanted to appease Muslims by reading Namaaz. The soft Hindutva line to counter the BJP would not work and the BJD should realise that," said Ali Kishore Patnaik, state secretary of CPI(M).BJP MP from Bhubaneswar, Aparajita Sarangi, said the development of the Jagannath temple should be done as per the NMA and ASI guidelines."As per the Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains Act (or AMASR Act) 1958, no new works can be undertaken in the prohibited area within 100 metres radius of the Srimandir. However, various heritage monuments under the 75 metres of the temple, were demolished in the name of beautification and development. On behalf of the people of Odisha, I want to ask the State government whether detailed mapping was conducted before razing the mutts. Most importantly, whether the permission of the National Monument Authority (NMA) and the ASI was taken before razing them,” she stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/odisha-cm-tables-resolution-on-development-of-corridor-around-puri-temple-101614443972829.html
27-02-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka intensifies Covid-19 testing after 3 new clusters in Bengaluru||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), Bengaluru's civic body, has identified three more Covid-19 clusters in the city with 33 cases reported on Saturday. The new cases were reported in three clusters at Agragami College, Sambharam College and residents of Purva Venezia apartment, officials said.Talking to the media, BBMP commissioner N Manjunath said that those who arrived from neighbouring states of Kerala and Maharashtra resulted in new clusters. "New clusters have emerged. We are surrounded by Kerala and Maharashtra where cases are rising. Most people coming from here are students, they have been tested and isolated,” he said.Manjunath added that the city administration has intensified tracking and isolating those arriving from these states. The BBMP commissioner said that the emergence of the new clusters is the results of the elaborate testing conducted by the administration in the past few days across educational institutions with a large population of students from Kerala and Maharashtra. He added that around 18,000 nursing students from Kerala are studying across different colleges in the city.Also read: On Balakot anniv, IAF video shows jets bombing target with Spice 2000 bombsOn Saturday, the state reported 523 new cases. Out of these, 329 cases were reported in Bengaluru city.Karnataka government has imposed travel restrictions on passengers coming from Kerala and Maharashtra. The decision was taken that all passengers from these two states should produce a Covid-19 negative test report before entering the state.However, on Tuesday, the district administration of Dakshina Kannada district, which neighbours Kerala, temporarily suspended the decision following protests. Officials said that vehicles and passengers will be allowed to enter Karnataka without a test report until further notice. This decision is expected to be reviewed in the coming days.Three new Covid-19 clusters, all in the Yelahanka zone, with a total of 19 positive cases were detected in Bengaluru on Friday. This takes the overall number of such groups to six over the past two weeks.In the last three days, as many as 1,156 students were tested at Sambhram Academy of Management Studies, 217 students from Agragami College and 111 residents at Purva Venezia apartment.According to the data provided by the Union health ministry, six states, including Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Gujarat, have reported a major surge in Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours. The cabinet secretary is scheduled to chair a review meeting on Saturday with the state and Union territories reporting the increasing trajectory of the coronavirus disease cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-intensifies-covid-19-testing-after-3-new-clusters-in-bengaluru-101614441383825.html
27-02-2021||Jaipur||Gehlot, Pilot hit out at farm laws ahead of Rajasthan bypolls||Putting up a united show ahead of the bypolls in Rajasthan, chief minister Ashok Gehlot and former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot hit out at the Centre’s three farm laws while addressing two kisan mahapanchayats at Shri Dungargarh in Bikaner and Matrikundiya in Chittorgarh on Saturday.The two Congress leaders shared a helicopter for the first time after more than a year as they flew to address the two kisan mahapanchayats.“Protest and agitation are ornaments of democracy but the Central government is stubborn and not ready to listen to the farmers who are sitting on protest in extreme weather condition for the last 90 days,” Gehlot said at Shri Dungargarh.“Journalists, activists are being arrested. A 21-year-old girl was arrested in Bangalore. We have seen many governments but this is happening for the first time. Governments are not meant to be stubborn.”Also read: On Balakot anniv, IAF video shows jets bombing target with Spice 2000 bombsTaking a jibe at former CM Vasundhara Raje, Gehlot said, “More than 80 people were killed in firings during protests, including the Gurjar agitation. But in our tenure, not a single baton charge took place during protests. Our ministers went to the platform to talk to them and resolve their issues.”He said his government bought a bill to counter the three farms laws but they are awaiting the Governor’s nod. “One can understand under how much pressure he must be. The government can easily resolve the farmers’ issue by taking back the laws. The Centre should bring in new laws,” Gehlot said.“We are with the farmers. In the recent state budget, we announced a separate budget for farmers from next year. We announced to give ₹1,000 per month to farmers. We waived farmers’ loan of ₹8,000 crore.”Gehlot appealed to people to vote for the development works done by his party. “Your blessings should continuously shower on us. Four bypolls are coming soon. Nobody thought that four MLAs will leave us like that. If you help us win the bypolls, then our government will be more strengthened.”The bypolls are scheduled in Sujangarh, Rajsamand, Sahada and Vallabhgarh as four MLAs passed away between October 2020 and January 2021. In at least two of these seats, the Gujjars have a significant presence, making it difficult for the Congress to sideline Pilot.During Congress leader Rahul Gandhi’s visit to Rajasthan on February 12 and 13, Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) chief Govind Singh Dotasra was given preference over Pilot in the rallies.In Matrakundiya, Pilot said that the Congress is working to create awareness. “Our leader Rahul Gandhi in his meetings said that the farmers are the backbone of our country and they are being attacked through this farm laws. The Centre wants to impose laws on the farmers. Through these laws, the Centre has ended laws on the stock limit and want to give profit to a few people,” he said.“The PM is not ready to listen to the farmers. Our leader Sonia Gandhi had united 24 parties against the farm laws. They want to shut all the mandis. Through these laws, farmers will become labour on their own land.”The former deputy CM praised the state budget and urged the people to vote for the Congress in the bypolls. Pilot also hit out at the Modi government over increasing fuel prices.“The laws made by the Centre are not only against the farmers but also the common man. The price of petrol is ₹100 per litre, cylinder price is ₹800 and unemployment is at its peak. We need to remain aware,” he said.State Congress in-charge Ajay Maken said the three farm laws will benefit a few corporates. “Before passing any bill, suggestions are taken from those concerned but these laws were brought without consulting anybody. These laws will end the MSP and mandi system,” he said.Maken added that the Congress will continue to fight for the people against the farm laws, rising fuel prices and other issues of public interest.State Congress president Govind Singh Dotasra said that the Modi government didn’t fulfil any of his promises related to farmers. “Before coming to power, the PM had promised that he will double the income of farmers, their profit share will be increased up to 50 per cent, educated unemployed youth will be provided jobs and the foreign policy will improve. But everybody knows what’s has happened so far and what is happening,” he said.On the allegations levelled by the Congress leaders, state BJP president Satish Poonia said, “In the name of farmers, Congress is trying to find its lost ground among people. In times of Congress government also, incidents of firing had taken place.”He added, “Generally it is a perception that the party in power wins the bypolls but Congress government is afraid that after performing poorly in the panchayat elections they will lose in the bypolls too.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/gehlot-pilot-hit-out-at-farm-laws-ahead-of-rajastthan-bypolls-101614438761139.html
27-02-2021||Delhi||Delhi reports 243 new Covid-19 cases, 3 deaths; active caseload sees slight jump||Active cases in Delhi witnessed a mild increase as the city reported 243 new Covid-19 cases and three deaths, taking the tally to 6,39,092 cases and 10,909 deaths, according to a bulletin from the state health department. Active cases jumped from the 1,231 cases reported on Friday to 1,307 cases on Saturday.Also, 164 patients recovered in the city on Saturday taking the total recoveries to 6,26,876 patients. With this, the overall recovery rate in Delhi stands at 98.1 per cent, according to the latest data.Also read | As Covid-19 cases rise, Centre asks states to deal Covid-19 violations firmlyDelhi has reported over 200 new daily Covid-19 cases for the fourth consecutive day. The city reported 200 new cases on February 24, 220 new cases on February 25 and 256 new cases on February 26. On Saturday, after reporting 243 cases, Delhi’s daily positivity rate stood at 0.36 per cent lesser than the 0.41 per cent reported on Friday.The state government had conducted 67,484 Covid-19 tests on Saturday comprising 45,873 RTPCR/CBNAAT/TrueNat tests and 21,611 Rapid Antigen Tests, according to the bulletin. Delhi’s tests per million count stand at 6,48,575 tests and the city has tested 1,23,22,927 samples so far. The cumulative positivity rate in Delhi, considering the total tests done and the total positive cases, stands at 5.19 per cent while the case fatality rate (CFR) has been reported as 1.71 per cent.Also read | India reports 16,488 Covid-19 cases, 113 deaths; tally over 11.07 millionAs of 7am on Saturday, Delhi has administered 4,09,959 doses of the Covid-19 vaccine. Also, 3,72,906 people have received the first dose of the vaccine and 37,053 people have received the second dose, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare. Delhi (55.32 per cent) is also among the nine states, Union territories that have administered the first dose of the vaccine to less than 60 per cent of its registered healthcare workers, according to the ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-reports-243-new-covid-19-cases-3-deaths-active-caseload-sees-slight-jump-101614439252042.html
27-02-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana: Khap panchayat urges dairy farmers to hike milk rates for govt co-op societies||A khap panchayat in Haryana’s Hisar on Sunday urged dairy farmers to sells milk at ₹100 per litre to government cooperative societies in protest against the Centre’s farm laws and high fuel prices.The appeal was made at a meeting of the Satrol Khap held in Hisar’s Narnaund under the chairmanship of its head Ramniwas.A leader of the khap panchayat (community court), Phool Kumar Petwar, said dairy farmers have been asked to sell milk at hiked prices from March 1. He, however, said the common people will continue to get milk at ₹55 to ₹60 per litre."The khap today took a decision in which we have asked farmers to sell milk at the rate of ₹100 per litre to government cooperative societies. For the common man, this will continue to be sold between ₹55 and ₹60 per litre,” he said.“We want to awaken the government. They should repeal the farm laws and bring down fuel prices," said Petwar, adding that the government is not listening to farmers’ demand of repealing the laws and continues to increase fuel prices.“Farmers are adversely hit by the rising diesel prices. Farmers not only grow crops, they also rear animals which produce milk,” he said, adding that the government should know that farmers are producers who can hike prices.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-khap-panchayat-urges-dairy-farmers-to-hike-milk-rates-for-govt-co-op-societies-101614435608876.html
27-02-2021||Mumbai||KDMC recovers local body tax of ₹2.62 crore from Indian Oil Corporation||The Kalyan Dombivali Municipal Corporation in Maharashtra's Thane district on Saturday said it had recovered Local Body Tax (LBT) of ₹2.62 crore from Indian Oil Corporation after seizing its bank account.As per a release of the KDMC, the oil PSU had not paid LBT for fuel pumps in 27 villages that were incorporated into KDMC limits in 2015.The release said the LBT recovered was for the period from April to September 2015, and added the action was carried out by a team led by Deputy Municipal Commissioner Pallavi Bhagat under the guidance of civic chief Vijay Suryavanshi.LBT is a tax imposed by civic bodies on the entry of goods into its area for consumption, use or sale.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/kdmc-recovers-local-body-tax-of-rs-2-62-crore-from-indian-oil-corporation-101614435481550.html
27-02-2021||Kolkata||West Bengal activists urge parties to follow environmental norms during assembly poll campaigns||Green activists in West Bengal have urged political parties to abide by environmental norms while campaigning for the upcoming assembly polls, voicing concern over the unrestricted use of plastic.Noted green activist Subhas Dutta, President of Rejuvenators for Environment Nature and United Society (RENU), said on Saturday that letters were sent to 13 political parties in the state on February 22 about the urgent need to follow such norms, including the ones on sound pollution."With the entire state literally being under a cover of plastic materials... we have urged the parties to refrain from using plastic or minimise its use in their campaigns," Dutta said.He said political parties have also been urged to curb decibel levels in roadshows and rallies, and not use loudspeakers without sound limiters."Our appeal to the parties is to project themselves as 'poribesh bondhu' (friend of environment). Apart from political issues, they should mention about green ideas in poll manifestos," Dutta said.He said the Election Commission was also urged to ensure environmental standards are maintained by political parties and the issue be included in the model code of conduct."Environment is the key for sustainable development. All parties should show interest towards green initiatives in their election manifestos and see to it that those are implemented if voted to power," said environmentalist S M Ghosh, one of the key activists of the Save Rabindra Sarobar campaign.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/wb-activists-urge-parties-to-follow-environmental-norms-during-campaigns-101614433698615.html
27-02-2021||Delhi||Air quality 'moderate' Gurgaon, worsens in Ghaziabad, 'poor' in Noida, Faridabad||The air quality improved to "moderate" category in Gurgaon, while it was recorded "very poor" in Ghaziabad and "poor" in Noida, Greater Noida and Faridabad, according to data issued by a government agency on Saturday.Pollutants PM 2.5 and PM 10 also remained high in the air of the five immediate neighbours of Delhi, according to the air quality index (AQI) maintained by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB).According to the index, an AQI between zero and 50 is considered 'good', 51 and 100 'satisfactory', 101 and 200 'moderate', 201 and 300 'poor', 301 and 400 'very poor', and 401 and 500 'severe'.The average 24-hour AQI at 4 pm on Saturday was 307 in Ghaziabad, 254 in Greater Noida, 215 in Noida, 241 in Faridabad and 165 in Gurgaon, according to CPCB's Sameer app.On Friday, it was 252 in Ghaziabad,  214 in Greater Noida, 201 in Noida, 207in Faridabad and 208 in Gurgaon.The CPCB states that an AQI in the “very poor” category may cause respiratory illness to people on prolonged exposure, while "poor" may cause breathing discomfort to most people on prolonged exposure.An AQI in the "moderate" category can cause breathing discomfort to people with asthma, lungs and heart diseases.The AQI for each city is based on the average value of all monitoring stations there. Ghaziabad, Gurgaon and Noida have four such stations while Greater Noida and Faridabad have two stations each, according to the app.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/air-quality-moderate-gurgaon-worsens-in-ghaziabad-poor-in-noida-faridabad-101614432379839.html
27-02-2021||Pune||Curtain Call: I didn’t mind being “shameless” to sit near my guru||Pune: So, I became a student of Dubeyji in his 10-day workshop. Little did I know that he was going to be my guru for the rest of my life. The workshop was for five hours a day. Those fifty hours offer me a lot of insight even today. Even though I had learnt most of the exercises in previous workshops, it was the narration of his experiences and a little peek that he offered about his process that opened up a lot of possibilities.I enjoyed doing those exercises. But I would wait for him to speak after every exercise, where he would explain their importance and also give examples of how he used them while directing plays. He used to sit in a normal plastic chair and we would sit on the floor. I would wait for everyone to sit so that I could go and sit at the very front, in whatever space I could find, so that I didn’t miss any word and not get distracted by anything else. Those might be the only days when I didn’t want to be a back-bencher. Everyone else had noticed it and it had become a standing joke to keep some space for me whenever he called us to listen. But I didn’t mind being shameless! The workshop sessions always went beyond the scheduled five hours and I wouldn’t have had a problem if they continued even after that! As mentioned in the previous article, the sessions ended with all of us singing various songs. It started with a song or two on the first day and by the end of it we were singing for nearly three quarters of an hour. We weren’t good at it, but it was a good way to unwind after all the theatrical exercises.Of the many things that have stayed with me, and those that I use while directing and also try and impart while conducting a workshop, three things have made a world of a difference. First and foremost – the art of surrendering to the creator. He told us that whenever you are watching a play or film, just surrender yourself to that for the duration of its runtime. Do not question the logic while watching it. Analyse it after you have watched it. It made a lot of sense to me. As a viewer, if I continue to be critical while watching it, there is a good chance that I will not enjoy anything!Second, he emphasised on the concept of “before”. What has happened before is as important as what is happening now. Everything that is taking place in the play has some history. Once we find that, the current events start making more sense. I directed my first play immediately after I did this workshop and I remember using this new-found knowledge fully and it helped me a lot. We improvised a lot of scenes that might have happened before the events in our play took place. These scenes were unscripted and based on an idea, mostly about something that was mentioned in the play. This helped the actors understand their characters, their motivations better and it definitely showed in their performance.And the third thing he taught us through a theatre exercise was to understand the text and the sub-text. It was such a simple and beautiful exercise and it remains my favourite till date. We had to narrate the paragraph that we had learnt by heart to an imaginary toddler over and over again until she or he understood it. But the catch was that the toddler was never going to understand it and we were not supposed to get angry at it or give up explaining! I think we did this exercise on the fifth or sixth day of the workshop and suddenly all of us realised that for all this time, we were only saying the lines, without understanding their meaning fully.I remember I had read out a story at a function where I was one of the recipients of a theatre fellowship. He was invited to be part of the celebrations and he too had graciously accepted it. While everybody else was congratulating us, he was the only one who was talking about our pieces that we had performed that day and what changes we could have done to make it better. I tried to hold on to every word he said, not knowing when I will get that chance again. But as it turns out, there were many interesting interactions still in store for me!||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/curtain-call-i-didn-t-mind-being-shameless-to-sit-near-my-guru-101614432728461.html
27-02-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh government says ₹42,700 crore loan given to about 13 lakh MSMEs in FY21||As many as 13 lakh MSME units in Uttar Pradesh have been given loans worth ₹42,700 crore in the financial year 2020-21, the state government said on Saturday.This is also for the first time in the history of the state that such a large amount of loan has been given to the MSME sector in a year. This has also generated 65 lakh direct and indirect employment opportunities in the private sector, an official release issued here said on Saturday. About 14 per cent of the country's micro small and medium enterprises (MSME) are operational in Uttar Pradesh, the release noted.Navneet Sehgal, additional chief secretary, MSME, recently reviewed the steering sub-committee of the State Level Banker's Committee (SLBC) and gave instructions for early disposal of pending applications for acceptance and distribution at the bank-level under various government schemes including Prime Minister Employment Generation Programme (PMEGP), ODOP, Mukhyamantri Yuva Swarojgar Yojana (MYSY), the release said.Instructions have also been given to take necessary action for the disposal of cases related to banks on the MSME Sathi app. About 41.16 per cent of bank accounts have been covered under the Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana (PMSBY) against the total Jan Dhan accounts in UP. "The state government's one Gram Panchayat, one Bank Correspondent' programme has started under which the process of appointment of 58,000 Bank Correspondent (BC) Sakhi is underway,” Brajesh Kumar Singh, convener of SLBC said.In the review meeting, Amil Agarwal, under-secretary in the Union Ministry of Finance, also suggested the banks and the NABARD to take necessary steps to reach out to potential projects and entrepreneurs for the use of agricultural infrastructure funds.“NBFCs should also be included in the SLBC meetings from time to time so that they can share their suggestions and progress,” Agarwal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-government-says-rs-42-700-crore-loan-given-to-about-13-lakh-msmes-in-fy21-101614431458407.html
27-02-2021||Patna||CM Nitish Kumar bats for judiciary’s role in establishing rule of law in Bihar||Chief Justice of India SA Bobde on Saturday praised Chief Minister Nitish Kumar’s “deep insight into the purpose of law, the purpose of the courts and his interpretation of the principles of theory of the separation of power without mentioning it.”“The theory of the separation of power does not imply hostility between the branches of the government and it is indeed extremely elevating to hear such wonderful, realistic views, which are absolutely in accordance with the Constitution. I thank the CM for understanding the needs of the courts,” he said, after inaugurating the new state-of-the-art centenary building of the Patna HC, built at a cost of ₹203-crore, to cater to the growing need of space.Kumar had earlier in his address referred to the Patna HC’s endeavour in 2006, soon after he took over the reins of the state, to help establish the rule of law by ensuring speedy trials so that wrongdoers could get punishment.“The government alone cannot control crime. The government does its job, but it could happen in Bihar because the courts also contributed to it significantly through speedy trial and constant monitoring. The role of judiciary is of utmost importance,” the CM said, promising whatever assistance the courts would require by way of infrastructure and manpower instantly..The CJI said that with the passage of a century, the need for a new building was being felt for a long time due to gradual rise in litigation over the years and also the increase in the strength of judges. “The need for an additional building signifies not just the increase in the number of cases being filed in the courts, but also the growing consciousness about legal rights and increase in legal literacy, which we have been striving for. Most importantly, it shows the courts are being resorted to for settling disputes, rather than taking law in own hands,” he added.Bobde said the old building of the Patna HC, which completed its 100 years in 2016, was an iconic structure and witness to great luminaries and great battles in the court room. “As the CM is so forthcoming, I will request the Patna HC CJ Justice Sanjay Karol to seek an additional budget from the state government for artificial intelligence (AI). The system of AI will in no way take away the discretion of the judges in deciding a case, but only ease of access of information that will change to add speed. There should not be any apprehension about it,” he added.The CJI said the inequality due to video conferencing should also not be allowed and for that purpose, public kiosks have been developed free of cost for lawyers and litigants. “We are exploring many other facilities, including possibility of satellite access wherever cabling is not possible. Pandemic has changed the way we function,” he said, underlining the importance of pre-litigation mediation in both criminal and civil disputes within legal framework to bring down the load of cases.76.38-lakh cases digitally heardUnion law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad, who started his journey in the legal field from the Patna HC, said that even during the Covid-19 pandemic, the Indian judiciary rose the occasion, digitally hearing 76.38-lakh cases till January 31, 2021, including 66460 cases by the Patna HC and 6.42-lakh cases by the district courts of the state.“We are working closely with the judiciary to create a digital ecosystem. The national judicial data grid so far having 18.09-crore case status and over 13.50 judicial orders from across the country. From Bihar, 56.18-lakh cases and 8.3-lakh judicial orders are available on the grid. Cases more than 10-year-old are being fast tracked. We are also boosting telly law. For that we have over 4-lakh kiosks for obtaining free legal service,” he added.Prasad also threw light on the social media guidelines, making it clear while the government welcomed dissent and criticism, misuse and abuse was not allowed. “We can criticise the reasoning of the judgment, but some people should not be allowed to make comments on judges or criticize them just because they did not have a judgment of their liking. The judges must have freedom. Trolling and agenda-setting is not fair,” he added.Prasad said that soon the Centre would set up all India judicial service to have quality intake in the judicial system on the lines of Indian Administrative Service (IAS) and the Indian Police Service (IPS). “The idea to have a particular number of additional district judges through open competition. Subordinate judiciary, those with seven-year experience and fresh law graduates can also sit for the exam,” he added.Others who spoke on the occasion included the judges of the Supreme Court, Justice Navin Sinha, Justice Indira Bannerjee, Justice Hemant Kumar and chief justice of the Patna HC, Justice Sanjay Karol. A large number of former and present chief justices, judges and legal luminaries were present on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/cm-nitish-kumar-bats-for-judiciary-s-role-in-establishing-rule-of-law-in-bihar-101614431397720.html
27-02-2021||City||Naidu on damage control after TDP's poor show in gram panchayat polls in Kuppam||Telugu Desam Party's poor performance in Kuppam Assembly constituency of Andhra Pradesh’s Chittoor district, in the recently-concluded gram panchayat elections, has shaken the ground of party president and former chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu, who represents the constituency.Though gram panchayat elections are held on a non-party basis, the candidates contesting for sarpanch posts and ward members openly flaunt their party affiliations at the ground level. Both the YSR Congress party and the main opposition TDP took the gram panchayat elections prestigiously as they provide a hold over the electorate at the grassroots level.However, the YSRC had its advantage of being the ruling party with complete control over the official machinery. It has claimed to have won a little over 80 per cent of the 13,000-odd gram panchayats in the state including 16 per cent of them unanimously.The TDP, however, debunked this claim and said it won nearly 35-40 per cent of gram panchayats.What shocked the TDP was the poor show by the party in Kuppam which is considered as Naidu's bastion who has been representing it for the last seven terms. The TDP could win only 14 out of 89 gram panchayats falling under this constituency, while the YSRC grabbed 74 gram panchayats.Also read: How much will vaccine cost at private hospitals? Here's what govt says“The outcome of gram panchayat elections in Kuppam is a reflection of the people’s faith in the welfare schemes being implemented by chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy. It is a victory of Jagan’s policies, rather than Naidu's defeat,” YSRC general secretary and advisor Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy said.He pointed out that in the Pulivendula Assembly constituency of Kadapa district, represented by Jagan, the YSRC won all the 108 gram panchayats which showed the people’s support to the present government.The TDP's defeat in Kuppam completely demoralised the party cadre in the constituency, who blamed it on the top leaders in Chittoor who failed to take the elections seriously.“The ruling YSRC has been focussing on Kuppam for quite some with the sole intention of breaking Naidu’s bastion. It has pumped in huge money and mobilised all its senior leaders led by panchayat raj minister Peddireddy Ramachandra Reddy in the constituency. By gaining control over the gram panchayats, the ruling party will go all out to defeat Naidu in the next Assembly elections to finish his political career,” said a senior TDP leader from Chittoor, who refused to be named.Realising the threat posed to his position, Naidu quickly plunged into action as part of damage control exercise. In the last three days, the TDP chief made a whirlwind tour of Kuppam constituency, interacted with party leaders and addressed a few rallies to rejuvenate the party cadre.Putting up a confident and aggressive stance, Naidu said the YSRC had tried to bulldoze the panchayat elections by misusing its power. He called upon the people of Kuppam to fight back the threats and attacks by the YSRC leaders and continue their fearless struggle to save democracy.“I assure you that in the next elections, the TDP’s victory march will begin from Kuppam itself, defeating the YSRC leaders' ulterior plans,” he said, addressing a rally at Kuppam on Friday.He alleged that the YSRC leaders and the police had threatened to file false cases against the TDP candidates in the panchayat polls. They threatened to put liquor bottles and ganja in their homes to book false cases. “We shall continue the fight even we have to go to jail for a day or two,” he said.The YSRC, however, rebutted Naidu’s allegations. State panchayat raj minister Peddireddy Ramachandra Reddy challenged the TDP president to contest the next assembly elections from Punganur (represented by the minister), to prove that he had people’s support.“Naidu has lost the confidence of the people. He can never win any elections again,” the minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/naidu-on-damage-control-after-tdp-s-poor-show-in-gram-panchayat-polls-in-kuppam-101614431235884.html
27-02-2021||Kolkata||NHRC asks WB chief secretary to ensure human rights in Sundarbans||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) on Saturday directed the West Bengal Chief Secretary to submit an Action Taken Report (ATR) on two investigation reports received from BB Mishra, Special Rapporteur of the NHRC East Zone over the problems of residents of Sundarbans.The NHRC has been passing a series of directions adjudicating the petition and rejoinder filed by the Supreme Court lawyer and noted human rights activist, Radhakanta Tripathy.Tripathy alleged that the residents of Sundarbans, West Bengal are forced to suffer multiple problems like man-animal conflict, malnutrition, lack of livelihood, healthcare, primary education, electricity, potable water, implementation of MGNREGS, proper roads, lack of sanitation, and other basic human rights.Human rights defenders and whistleblowers are attacked and threatened, Tripathy said.He alleged that the residents of the Sundarbans area have been deprived of their basic human rights for a long time despite media coverage and towering claims by the state and Central Government and international agencies and memorandums submitted by the victims to the State Authorities.Seeking a permanent solution to the issue of human rights in Sundarbans, a world heritage site, Tripathy requested the NHRC to send a team or its Special Rapporteur to visit the area, interact with the victims, assess the situation, and make a recommendation for the state to comply.Considering the gravity of the issue, the NHRC asked its Special Rapporteur, to visit the affected areas, assess the situation by associating the villagers and the administration highlighting the measures to be taken for ensuring basic human rights of the affected people, and submit his report.The Special Rapporteur had visited Namkhana Block and highlighted certain observations. The same was sent to the Chief Secretary of the State of West Bengal for compliance.In the meantime, Tripathy in his rejoinder requested the NHRC to depute the Special Rapporteur to visit the remaining affected areas and submit a detailed report on the matter.The NHRC recommended for improvement of the quality of sanitation in the entire district early completion of the eleven projects of drinking water in Rajat Jubilee village. It also recommended for the payment of ex gratia should be considered to alleviate the miseries of the indigent families due to man-animal conflict.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/nhrc-asks-wb-chief-secretary-to-ensure-human-rights-in-sundarbans-101614430609698.html
27-02-2021||Delhi||Delhi municipal by-polls: Notice issued to 3 officers over govt advertisement||A day before the bypoll in five Delhi municipal seats, the State Election Commission issued a show-cause notice to Principal Secretary (Revenue) Sanjeev Khirwar and two officers of the Directorate of Information and Publicity (DIP) seeking their reply on an advertisement on 20 per cent reduction in circle rates in the city.In the notice issued to Khirwar, DIP secretary Padmini Singla and director Manoj Kumar Dwivedi, the Commission said that, prima facie, the advertisement violates the model code of conduct.Five municipal wards --- Shalimar Bagh, Rohini-C, Trilokpuri, Kalyanpuri and Chauhan Bangar -- will go to poll on Sunday.On Saturday, an advertisement on the Delhi government's recent decision on 20 per cent reduction in circle rates appeared in several newspapers."It has come to the notice of the Commission that an advertisement is published in various national newspapers just before the day of poll at the cost of public exchequer for publicity regarding achievements with a view to furthering the prospects of the party in power," the notice stated.It also stated, "The Commission is, prima facie, of the view that by the said advertisement, the provision of the Model Code of Conduct has been violated."The three officers have been asked to reach the commission by 4 pm on Saturday as the poll is scheduled on Sunday.On Friday, all three parties -- the Aam Aadmi Party, BJP and the Congress -- claimed that they would emerge victorious in the contest.Voting for the municipal bypolls will be held in the five wards from 7.30 am to 5.30 pm on Sunday. The results will be announced on March 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-municipal-by-polls-notice-issued-to-3-officers-over-govt-advertisement-101614423941612.html
27-02-2021||Lucknow||'Statement of Indian, Hindu culture': Min Pradhan reviews projects in Varanasi||Union Petroleum Minister Dharmendra Pradhan on Saturday said that Kashi represents India and Hindu culture and has the potential to grow as a religious tourism spot.While reviewing the progress of a CNG boat conversion project and the Khirkiya Ghat redevelopment project, the Union Minister said, "Kashi is a statement of our Indian and Hindu culture. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has created a new India. He envisioned it to increase employment and increase the prosperity of the people. Kashi will emerge as a religious tourism spot soon."The Khirkiya Ghat redevelopment project is being undertaken by GAIL (Gas Authority Of India Ltd) and Indian Oil.Pradhan also flagged-off two boats powered by CNG."Reviewed the progress on the CNG dispensing station under CNG boat conversion project and ghat revitalisation project being undertaken by Gailand Indian Oil at Khirkiya Ghat, one of the most sacred ghats in the holy city of Varanasi," he tweeted later in the day."Gail India is undertaking work to strengthen the CNG infrastructure and convert 2000 diesel-run boats into CNG to help reduce pollution in mother Ganges and ensure a clean environment. Indian Oil is redeveloping the Khirkiya Ghat to preserve its heritage and glory," he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/statement-of-indian-hindu-culture-min-pradhan-reviews-projects-in-varanasi-101614422766517.html
27-02-2021||Mumbai||'Dictatorial': Maharashtra IT minister on centre's new social media regulations||Maharashtra minister of state for information technology (IT), Satej Patil, on Saturday criticised the central government's regulations for social media platforms such as Facebook and Twitter, and over-the-top (OTT) players such as content streaming platforms, calling them dictatorial, and a threat to democracy and freedom of expression.Patil said his comments were his personal stand and that he is yet to discuss the issue with his colleagues in the state government. Patil told Hindustan Times, "The regulations curtail freedom of expression. With these regulations, the privacy of individuals will be threatened. As of now, if the government wants anything anti-national and objectionable taken off the social media platforms, the social media companies cooperate. So there is no need to bring these regulations unless the government wants access to everyone's social media."Also read: How much will vaccine cost at private hospitals? Here's what govt saysHe added, "We saw what happened in the United States, that the former president Donald Trump's Twitter account was deactivated. This shows that the law has such mechanisms to ensure such type of content is removed. What the government is seeking to do through these new regulations is to gain control of this content, which is not acceptable."Patil also said, some bureaucrats deciding on what can be published and what cannot on any social media is an attack on the freedom of the press. Such orders will not have any standing in the court of law.On February 25, 2021, the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology notified the guidelines for Intermediaries and Digital Media Ethics Code Rules, 2021, that social media companies and OTT platforms need to follow. One of the rules is enabling traceability of the originator of the content. It also requires such platforms to remove content flagged by authorities within 36 hours, and appointing a grievance officer to receive a complaint within 24 hours, and resolve it within 15 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/dictatorial-maharashtra-it-minister-on-centre-s-new-social-media-regulations-101614428183843.html
27-02-2021||Kolkata||BJP’s ‘Lokkho Sonar Bangla’ vehicles attacked after ECI declares poll schedule||Hours after the Election Commission of India announced the poll schedule in West Bengal on Friday, the Bharatiya Janata Party allegedly came under attack from the ruling Trinamool Congress in Kolkata.The BJP alleged that at least seven vehicles used in their campaign ‘Lokkho Sonar Bangla’ were damaged by the TMC, LED TVs and laptops were looted and the drivers and helpers of the vehicles were beaten up.“This is why the ECI has announced an eight-phase election in West Bengal. TMC workers entered the godown where the vehicles were parked and broke the windshields. LED TVs and laptops fitted in the vehicles were stolen. The poor driver, the helper and the security guard were beaten up,” said Samik Bhattacharya, BJP spokesman in West Bengal.The BJP lodged a complaint in the Phoolbagan police station. Senior BJP leaders of the state rushed to the spot to take stock of the situation.On Saturday afternoon, a team of BJP delegation met the Chief Electoral Officer of West Bengal and lodged a complaint in this regard. The Model Code of Conduct has already come into force soon after elections were declared by the ECI on Friday.Also read: How much will vaccine cost at private hospitals? Here's what govt says“TMC hoodlums vandalise BJP’s #LokkhoSonarBangla raths in the godown in Kadapara... Raths were damaged and LEDs stolen. This is going to be one tough election for the EC to manage given the culture of political violence perpetrated by the TMC. People of West Bengal will respond!” tweeted Amit Malviya, BJP’s IT cell head.TMC hoodlums vandalise BJP’s #LokkhoSonarBangla raths in the godown in Kadapara... Raths were damaged and LEDs stolen.This is going to be one tough election for the EC to manage given the culture of political violence perpetrated by the TMC.People of West Bengal will respond! pic.twitter.com/h5Hen1q0ljThe vehicles were launched by JP Nadda, the party’s national president, on Thursday as a part of the party’s manifesto and crowdsourcing campaign. Around 294 such vehicles fitted with suggestion boxes were launched.The TMC, however, rubbished the charges saying that it is unfortunate.“The TMC has never stopped the BJP’s 'Parivartan Rath Yatra' campaign. The rath yatra is going on across the state. If any untoward incident has happened anywhere then it is unfortunate. The TMC doesn’t approve it,” said Saugata Roy, TMC MP.This is however not the first time that vehicles used in BJP’s poll campaigns have been attacked. Last week, bombs were hurled and a BJP rath yatra campaign was attacked in North 24 Parganas. A clash broke out between the BJP and the TMC. Later, BJP’s state leaders had shot letters to the Union home minister Amit Shah and the Election Commission of India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bjps-lokkho-sonar-bangla-vehicles-attacked-after-eci-declares-poll-schedule-101614425456815.html
27-02-2021||Other||Worker dies in accident at Ludhiana factory, owner booked for negligence||The owner of a forging factory was booked after a worker died following a mishap on the unit’s premises on Friday.The victim, Parmeshwar Deen, 35, worked as a furnace operator at Nagra Forging, Phase 8, Focal Point, a business owned by Karamjit Singh.Deen’s wife Gyanmati, a resident of Jeevan Nagar, told the police that within an hour after her husband left for work on Friday morning, she got a call from his co-workers that he had met with an accident at the factory. When she rushed to the spot, she found her husband lying on a sack on the floor.She urged Karamjit to rush Deen to the hospital, following which he was taken to a nearby facility in a pick-up auto. However, doctors there referred him to Fortis Hospital, Chandigarh Road, where he was declared dead.Gyanmati alleged that Deen could have survived had he received timely medical attention.Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Gurmeet Singh, who is investigating the case, said the victim’s body bore no external injury. “The cause of death will become clear after the autopsy. The body has been sent to the Ludhiana civil hospital. The factory owner has been booked under Section 304-A (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code and will be arrested soon,” he added.Hailing from Uttar Pradesh, Deen leaves behind his wife and three children. He was the family’s lone breadwinner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/worker-dies-in-accident-at-ludhiana-factory-owner-booked-for-negligence-101614426368882.html
27-02-2021||Lucknow||Want alliance with BJP in 2022 UP polls, says RPI chief Athawale||Union minister Ramdas Athawale Saturday said his Republican Party of India (RPI) wants an alliance with the BJP for the upcoming polls in four states and the Union Territory of Puducherry, as also for the 2022 Uttar Pradesh elections.He said talks will be held with Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath this evening over an alliance in the state, and also with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, BJP president JP Nadda and Home Minister Amit Shah in due course."If the BJP leaves 8-10 seats, the RPI can be used to give a jolt to the BSP," he said talking about Uttar Pradesh, claiming that people in the state are getting disenchanted with the Mayawati's party and are shifting towards the RPI.On alliance in the poll-bound Assam, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Puducherry, the RPI president said his party wants to contest these elections together with the BJP.However, if it was not given seats by the BJP, the RPI would field its candidates on some seats and extend support to saffron party on the others, he said.He pointed out the Dalit constitutes 36 per cent population of West Bengal, and the BJP would benefit if RPI fights the election with it.Athawale, whose RPI is a BJP ally at the Centre, said also praised the works done by Prime Minister Modi and Chief Minister Adityanath.Asked about any political understanding with Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad, Athawale said Azad is an "independent person, but if he joins my party he will be given an important post".The Dalit leader extended Azad and BSP president Mayawati invitations to join his party."If Mayawati comes, she would be given the post of the president of RPI and I will myself opt for the post of vice president as this is the party of Babasaheb (Bhimrao Ambedkar)," Athawale said.When pointed out that the BJP was not inclined to give his party any seat, he said, "As of now, our organisation is not very strong but we are strengthening it at the district-level."He also claimed that the BJP would be getting more than 200 seats in West Bengal. "There is a resentment against the government in the state."The NDA will form its government in four states and in Kerala too, it can succeed since people there are intending to hand over power to the BJP, he said.On the ongoing farmers agitation against the Centre's three agricultural reforms laws, he said, "Our government is not against farmers but if one law is repealed, there would be pressure to withdraw all laws. The government is ready for amendment in the farm law."On the issue of Maharashtra Congress unit President Nana Patole's announcement to oppose film actors Amitabh Bachchan and Akshay Kumar on the issue of inflation, the RPI president said that his party has decided to support the Bollywood stars.When questioned about his silence over inflation and why he does not criticise the BJP over the issue, Athawale said, "I do not raise my voice against the BJP as our two voices are the same."To a question on Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra’s visit to Varanasi on the occasion of Sant Ravidas Jayanti, Athawale said she can visit whichever temple she wants but there is no future for the Congress till there is Rahul Gandhi.The RPI president demanded the landless people of Uttar Pradesh be given 5 acre land by the Adityanath government.The union minister also said that Marathas in Maharashtra, Jaats in Haryana and Rajputs in Uttar Pradesh are demanding reservation and so they should also get 10-12% quota.He also said that the 2021 census be caste-based so as to find out the actual caste data on the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/want-alliance-with-bjp-in-2022-up-polls-says-rpi-chief-athawale-101614422608263.html
27-02-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab’s 38 IAS, 16 IPS officers appointed poll observers||The Election Commission of India on Saturday appointed 38 IAS as general observers and 16 IPS officers of Punjab as police observers for the poll-bound states of Assam, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal and the Union Territory of Puducherry. Punjab chief electoral officer S Karuna Raju said that the ECI will conduct a briefing meeting of observers on March 3 through video-conference in this regard. Vijay Kumar Janjua, Anurag Agarwal, Raji P Shrivastava, Sarvjit Singh, Anurag Verma, Kakumanu Siva Prasad, Dhirendra Kumar Tiwari, Hussan Lal, Seema Jain, Raj Kamal Chaudhuri, Veerendra Kumar Meena, Vikas Garg, Ajoy Sharma, Nilkanth S Avhad, Kumar Rahul, Rahul Tewari, Dr Vijay Namdeorao Zade, Rajat Agarwal, Manvesh Singh Sidhu, Tanu Kashyap, Daljit Singh Mangat, Sibin Chakkyadath, Pradeep Kumar Aggarwal, Ravi Bhagat, Manjit Singh Brar, Kanwal Preet Brar, Mohammad Tayyab, Bhupinder Singh, Parveen Kumar Thind, Amit Kumar, Puneet Goyal, Mohammad Ishfaq, Bhupinder Pal Singh, Kumar Saurabh Raj, B Srinivasan, Bhupinder Singh II, Keshav Hingonia and Vineet Kumar are among the IAS officers appointed as observers, he said. Barjinder Kumar Uppal, Kuldeep Singh, Anita Punj, B Chandra Sckhar, Amardeep Singh Rai, Ram Singh, Gollapalli Nageswara Rao, Gautam Cheema, MF Farooqui, Vibhu Raj, Lakshmi Kant Yadav, Arun Pal Singh, Shive Kumar Verma and Babu Lal Meena are among the IPS officers who have been appointed as observers. A total of 824 assembly constituencies shall be going to the polls in Kerala, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Assam and Puducherry. Polling will start from March 27 and end on April 29. The counting of votes will be held on May 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjabs-38-ias-16-ips-officers-appointed-poll-observers-101614424748490.html
27-02-2021||Delhi||NGT directs Delhi Jal Board to ensure supply of treated water in public parks||The National Green Tribunal has directed the Delhi Jal Board (DJB) to ensure supply of treated water with adequate pressure in public parks and to stop groundwater extraction for gardening.A bench headed by NGT Chairperson Adarsh Kumar Goel said steps are reported to have been taken, the matter needs to be taken forward to ensure that freshwater is not used for gardening in public parks by the DDA and the South Delhi Municipal Corporation."The DJB may ensure supply of such treated water with adequate pressure and wherever piped supply is not available, supply may be ensured by tankers," the bench said."DPCC may monitor similar action by other agencies in Delhi owning parks and by bulk users, including other Municipal Corporations for adopting a similar course of action to save drinking water for drinking purposes to fulfil the basic need of maximum people. This may be overseen by the Secretary, Environment, Delhi," it said.The tribunal had earlier prohibited Delhi Development Authority (DDA), South Delhi Municipal Corporation and DJB from using freshwater for gardening purposes.The tribunal was hearing a plea filed by retired Rear Admiral A P Revi seeking execution of the 2017 order directing the DDA/MCD that treated sewage water, supplied by the DJB, be used for gardening instead of freshwater.The counsel for DJB had earlier told the bench that there was a sewage treatment plant in Vasant Kunj in south Delhi from where treated sewage water can be provided to the residents for the purpose.Revi had sought directions for the supply of treated sewage water in Vasant Kunj for gardening and other purposes so that they do not have to use freshwater.The plea had said that treated water should be used for the maintenance of greenery in the Vasant Kunj area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/ngt-directs-delhi-jal-board-to-ensure-supply-of-treated-water-in-public-parks-101614413789085.html
27-02-2021||Pune||Startup Mantra: F&B startups keep the orders coming||PUNE The common refrain is: “Pune Tithe Kay Une” (There is nothing that cannot be found in Pune). This city has witnessed several brands of tea, biryani and other food items becoming “famous” within a short span of time. With a large student population, the “experimenting customer base” is always there. As the Covid-19 pandemic and subsequent lockdowns hit the city, social media was flooded with several “Puneri recipes”, with everyone becoming a chef and health conscious. This wave slowed down as the unlocking phase began, but till then, the hotel, restaurant, café (HoReCa) industry had been impacted adversely. Several outlets closed down while some turned to the online solutions, like Nikhil Dahake, owner of Just Bytes Café. He says, “A behavioural change is evident and seen in customers post lockdown. The overall spending capacity has also come down, but now a gradual recovery is happening. We have completely shifted to online ordering since the lockdown.”As customers were wary about hygienic practices at the reopened outlets, business owners looked for some innovative and technological solutions. These innovations and tech-based solutions are in demand in all segments, like food products, packaging and safety, storage and supply chain solutions, food distribution and food processing equipment and technologies.Pune has seen the birth of a “rebel”, another unicorn in the making, along with several other healthy food startups. City-based entrepreneurs are overcoming the challenges and riding the long-awaited wave of disruption in food industry.What the founders say“In the last one year we are seeing lot of action in the food-tech startup space, because of people becoming more conscious about their health and immunity. Covid-19 has pushed people towards adopting a healthier lifestyle and experimenting with healthy food. Customer acquisition that would have taken two or three years, has happened in just four or five months. We are aware that this is a temporary situation and there will be some dropouts, but we have got a lot of boost.“Even though the interest in the food-tech space has increased in the recent past, investors are not so keen in this domain, because margins or returns are less relative to other tech products. The packaged food revolution has not taken place in India yet. We still consume conventional food and no company has been able to change this habit. This will be disrupted soon and we will see this wave in near future. “Strategically, Pune has many advantages and an ecosystem is already developed. Pune has one or two food parks, but if we want new companies then we need to have more food parks. Also, there are SMEs existing in and around Pune which are into machinery production for food processing units. There are at least 20 to 25 new packaging food brands in my knowledge that are coming up. A few companies from Pune will grow big in the next two-to-three years, which will help build the ecosystem. “The other factors in favour of Pune are that Maharashtra is among the three states with a large number of food-tech courses offered in colleges. So, human resources and talent is not a problem for us. There is no issue regarding raw material supply. One advantage is that huge capital not required to start in the food industry, as compared to, say the auto industry. Hence, many entrepreneurs have started their businesses in Pune. Since margins are low and it’s a struggle to make it in food industry, it will take time to pick up. The young generation is helping the older generation in their businesses which is also changing the dynamics and building the ecosystem. The government should support and ensure that all permissions are given quickly.”Sreejith Moolayil, co-founder, True Elements“I was running an IT company and cloud kitchen in 2014 at Nigdi Pradhikaran. Managing these two simultaneously, I was facing challenges in the restaurant industry on the operations, inventory, staff, and expense-tracking front. I thought it was not my domain. I started looking for a software and approached some companies. The software was priced at about a lakh of rupees and hence, we could not afford it. Despite being an IT guy, I thought we can manage the operations manually, but then we failed miserably. Since then, I decided that we will help others to setup their cloud kitchen and run their restaurant smoothly. So, we diverted all our attention to the food and beverages industry with a special focus on technology. We designed our operating system for restaurant industry. We aimed to manage all tasks through our software in a smooth way and help the restaurant industry. “The restaurant industry was badly impacted during the pandemic. Hence, we decided to bail it out by offering a contactless platform for online and offline ordering. Since, customers were not stepping out and were sceptical about handling menu cards physically, we designed the QR code-based contactless ordering platform. We have on-boarded 4,000 restaurants since the lockdown, including 1,200 restaurants in the Pune region. Now with second wave of Covid-19 cases and restrictions in place again, enquiries have increased. We are also in talks with some investors for a first round of $1 million funding for scaling.Rahil Shaikh, co-founder, TMBill and TechMainstay------Food & beverage, and food-tech startups in PuneTrue Elements (HW Wellness Solutions), Hinjewadi•Founded in 2014 by Sreejith Moolayil and Puru Gupta•A whole-food plant-based and clean-label brand that provides a range of healthy breakfast (nashta) and snack food items using Indian local produce like millets, grains, and seeds. •Secured ₹10 crore funding from Maharashtra State Social Venture Fund (MSSVF) managed by SIDBI VC in January 2021. Raised ₹5 crore in pre-Series A funding round led by RP-Sanjiv Goenka Group. Aker Foods (Aker Foods Agrotech), Kondhwa•Founded in 2019 by Suraj Saste, Nihal Surve and Adarsh Kedari•An artificial intelligence (AI)/machine learning (ML)-driven B2B supply chain platform for restaurants and delivery kitchens. The platform integrates farmers and small and big manufacturing companies, and also provides eco-friendly packaging solutions. •Received undisclosed amount in funding from Mumbai Angels Network in April 2020Rebel Foods, Vimannagar•Founded in 2011 by Jaydeep Barman and Kallol Banerjee•Rebel Foods, formerly known as Faasos, is a chain of online restaurants. This “Soonicorn” has established a multi-brand, cloud kitchen model in India and operates 15 brands, such as Behrouz Biryani. The platform is now a network of 3,000 restaurants across 350+ kitchens spread through 40+ cities across four countries - India, UAE, Indonesia, and the UK. •In July 2020, raised Series E round of $26.7 million from Coatue Management.Engineered Food Concepts, Erandwane•Founded in 2015 by Rahul Nanal•Offers 100 per cent cooked, ready to eat frozen food in bulk for restaurants, cafes, hotels. Simple reheating in a basic microwave makes the food ready to serve in six to eight minutes.Hungry Hippos (Asish Nihal Foods), Charholi •Founded in 2019 by Asish Nayak and Nihal Rath•Hungry Hippos is a brand for the unbranded restaurants and fastfoods across India. Hungry Hippos aims at organising the micro, small, medium level restaurants and fastfoods and leveraging them with sales and business operations.Rolls Mania (Golden Oak Food and Beverages), Shivajinagar•Founded in 2009 by Puneet Kansal•Started as a small kiosk in 2009 in Pune, Rolls Mania now has 150 stores across India. Franchise model was rolled out in 2015. A self-funded company, now planning to go international.La Kheer Deli (Sooduku Foods), New Sangvi•Founded in 2017 by Shivika Sood and Shivang Sood •LKD has transformed the humble Indian Kheer into a pre-packaged gourmet kheer. Just like ice-cream parlours, LKD plans to scale the kheer speciality retail stores across India.F&B startupsIndia – 6,450 (DPIIT-recognised – 1,855) Maharashtra – 1,266 (370)Pune – 297 (92)•Department for promotion of industry and internal trade----Bits and bytesBuild fund to develop startup ecosystem, say investorsPune: Angel and institutional investors claim that a rub-off effect is not happening in Pune city and companies are not spinning off any new firms. “City-based corporates should keep aside a ₹10 crore to ₹50 crore venture capital funds to develop the start-up ecosystem,” investors stated during a virtual meeting organised by the Incubation and StartUps Committee of the Mahratta Chamber of Commerce, Industries and Agriculture (MCCIA).Sanjay Mehta, founder and partner at 100x.vc said, “There is a lack of hunger in Pune startup founders. They should be mentored in terms of attitude, scaling rapidly and raising capital rapidly. For the Pune startup ecosystem to grow, the corporate venture capital should come up from treasury side. AIF of about ₹10 crore to ₹50 crore should be kept aside. Unfortunately, the rub-off effect is not happening and same company is not spinning off many companies.”Gireendra Kasmalkar, managing partner at Pentathlon Ventures said, “The information technology (IT) industry took a while to get started in Pune and a similar thing is happening with the startup ecosystem.” Kanchi Daiya, regional head, Indian Angel Network said, “Pune is special chapter for us. There is diversity within Pune city and recent trends are from cyber security and manufacturing domain.”Krishna Iyer, angel investor based in Pune said, “There are public market stories from Pune, but there are not enough local funds available for city-based start-ups.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/startup-mantra-f-b-startups-keep-the-orders-coming-101614423788825.html
27-02-2021||Chandigarh||Five Congress MLAs booked for causing hurt to Himachal governor||Hours after they were suspended for the entire budget session for unruly behavior at the Vidhan Sabha on Friday, the Himachal Pradesh Police registered a case against five Congress legislators, including leader of opposition Mukesh Agnihotri, for causing grievous injuries to governor Bandaru Dattatreya. Besides Agnihotri, the case was registered against five-time Shillai legislator Harshwardhan Chauhan, Sunder Thakur, Satpal Raizada and Vinay Kumar at Boileuganj police station. All five were booked on the complaint from the Vidhan Sabha secretariat. The MLAs were booked for obstructing the exit of the governor and injuring him in the process. A marshal escorting the governor complained about this to Vidhan Sabha Speaker Vipin Singh Parmar. The MLAs had flung copies of governor’s address on his official car when he was leaving. “They threw copies of the governor’s address. It not only caused dishonour but also hurt him,” Parmar said. According to police sources, the MLAs were booked under Section 323 of the Indian Penal Code for voluntarily causing hurt. The offence is bailable. Besides, the case was also registered under Section 124, 341 and 34 of the IPC. Security to be beefed up in assembly Soon after the opening day’s session ended, the Speaker convened a meeting of the security staff to review the situation. Footage from close circuit cameras on the Vidhan Sabha premises and those being circulated on social media and electronic media was watched closely before the complaint was lodged. The Vidhan Sabha secretariat decided to increase the number of internal security staff on the premises for the session. “Due to the pandemic, we had restricted the number of entrants to the Vidhan Sabha and deployed fewer security personnel, but after Friday’s incident, it has been decided to increase the number of police personnel deployed there,” Parmar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/five-congress-mlas-booked-for-causing-hurt-to-himachal-governor-101614422888994.html
27-02-2021||Delhi||AAP, BJP and Congress gear up for Delhi MCD by-polls tomorrow||By-polls in five wards of Delhi’s civic body, two of which fall under the North Delhi Municipal Corporation (NDMC) and three under the East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC), will be held on Sunday. The elections are being seen as a test for Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, whose Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) won 27 seats in the Surat municipal corporation in Gujarat. Kejriwal hailed the party’s victory as “breaching the BJP’s citadel”. The MCD by-polls are also a precursor to the 2022 Delhi civic body polls and are important to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) which is aiming to gain ground in the national capital. The polling will start at 7.30am and end at 5.30pm and the results will be declared on March 3.Here’s everything you need to know about the Delhi MCD by-polls:1. The five wards where by-polls will be conducted are Ward No 32N, (Rohini-C); Ward No 62N, (Shalimar Bagh North) in north Delhi and Ward No 02-E (Trilokpuri); Ward No 08-E (Kalyanpuri) and Ward No 41-E (Chauhan Bangar) in east Delhi.2. Four of the five wards fell vacant after sitting councillors contested assembly polls on AAP tickets last year and became MLAs. The Shalimar Bagh ward fell vacant following the death of Renu Jaju, who had won the seat on a BJP ticket in 2017.3. The last date for filing nominations for the by-polls was February 8. Over 70 nominations, including duplicate applications from some candidates, were received by poll authorities for the by-election.4. The BJP, which has ruled the three corporations in Delhi for more than a decade, has been holding meetings at the booth level and has tasked each party worker with getting support from around 21 houses as part of their campaign.5. The AAP, which called itself a better alternative to the BJP, built a door-to-door campaign highlighting financial mismanagement and corruption in the BJP-ruled MCD for 15 years.6. The Congress party accused both the AAP and BJP of fighting amongst themselves and ignoring the residents of Delhi. Delhi Congress vice-president Abhishek Dutt said, “People know that the BJP and AAP, in their fight, have worsened the finances of MCDs, affecting civic services.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/aap-bjp-and-congress-gear-up-for-delhi-mcd-by-polls-tomorrow-101614418850493.html
27-02-2021||Bhopal||Army's Central Command honours soldiers with service awards||The Indian Army's Central Command on Saturday honoured its distinguished and gallant soldiers at an investiture ceremony held at its Madhya Bharat Area headquarters here.General Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Central Command, Lieutenant General I S Ghuman felicitated officers and other ranks with gallantry and distinguished service awards, an official release stated.At least 20 Sena Medals (gallantry), two Sena Medals (distinguished), eight Vishist Seva Medals and a Yudh Seva Medal were bestowed, it was stated.According to the release, the Lieutenant General also bestowed "Central Command Unit Citation" to 15 units for their meritorious and outstanding performance.Addressing the ceremony, Lt Gen Ghuman congratulated the awardees and recipients of the unit citations.He exhorted all ranks to emulate the awardees, always give their best in all spheres and keep the Indian Army's flag flying high, the release said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/armys-central-command-honours-soldiers-with-service-awards-101614418811758.html
27-02-2021||Bangalore||Manual scavenging continues to mar Karnataka as conviction stays zero||Soon after entering the underground drain, two men collapsed due to the lack of oxygen. Even as those standing above on the road sensed something was wrong, they did not go inside realising that poisonous gases in the drain could be hazardous for them. By the time the officials of the fire and emergency services arrived at the spot, the two men were dead, and one was in a critical condition.The deaths of 30-year-old Lal Ahmed and 25-year-old Rasheed Ahmed in north Karnataka’s Kalburgi on January 26 were the latest in the list of people who died because of manual scavenging. A public interest litigation (PIL) filed before the Karnataka high court stated that at least 43 people have died in 21 incidents related to manual scavenging in the state since 2015.“Any death related to manual scavenging is called an accident, but the truth is that it is culpable homicide, if not murder. When you send someone inside a pit with poisonous gases, you are aware of the danger to that person’s life,” said Clifton Rozario, a city-based advocate, who has filed the petition against manual scavenging in the high court.“Even though The Prohibition of Employment as Manual Scavengers and their Rehabilitation Act came into existence in 2013, the inhuman practice not only continues, but it has caused lives,” Rozario said.The advocate added that the lack of political will, failure in enforcement of law and apathy from the civic society allowed the practice to continue.An example to show the institutional failure in enforcing the law is the number of cases filed regarding manual scavenging. According to Karnataka State Commission for Safai Karamcharis, the state has witnessed 36 manual scavenging-related incidents since 2008, resulting in 72 deaths. Police cases were filed in all the incidents, but there has not been a single conviction.In four cases, police filed a B Report, which meant they did not find any evidence to file a charge sheet. Five cases were registered as unnatural death reports, 15 were under trial, two under investigation and in 12 cases, the accused were acquitted.“Manual scavenging is happening in the city on a daily basis, but it comes to the eyes of the police only if there is a death. There is not one case where manual scavenging has been stopped. If the government gives stricter orders, this could be done. But the government has been dragging its feet for years now,” Rozario said.According to a worker employed as manual scavenger in the city, there are two types of people employed — those working with government agencies or contractors, who either work for the government or privately, and those who go door-to-door seeking work.“In most cases, we have no options but to enter the pits. We don’t have the power to demand machines and if we refuse to work, they will find someone else. It is true that all works can’t be done with machines and we have to enter the pits, but we don’t get any masks and boots. We often look at fire department officials entering manholes with oxygen tanks on their backs, with fascination,” a worker employed with a contractor, said on the condition of anonymity.Earlier, manual scavenging was associated with the cleaning of septic tanks. However, according to experts, there are many aspects to the illegal practice. One being sewage treatment plants (STPs) set up in apartment buildings. “STPs are emerging as the new killing fields of sanitation workers after sewer lines, manholes and septic tanks. In the last two years in Bengaluru, at least eight workers have been killed in four incidents while cleaning STPs,” said Siddharth Joshi, member, Safaikarmachari Kavulu Samithi-Karnataka.There is no clarity on the number of people engaged in manual scavenging. While activists working for the welfare of safai karmacharis peg the number at 25,000, a pilot survey of six districts, including Bengaluru, in 2018, identified a total of 1,720 workers engaged in manual scavenging.The Bangalore Water Supply and Sewage Board (BWSSB), too, acknowledges that it has limited equipment to clear sewage lines. the board has around 150 jetting and sucking machines, said an official on the condition of anonymity, admitting the machines were not enough to cover the requirement of the city.“We are planning to get more machines. Private markets are also showing improvement, where many contractors are offering to clean sewage using machines. There is a certain trend of moving away from people getting into drains and manholes,” the officer claimed.Rozario, however, said the only way for the problem to end was change in mindset. “First of all, it is a caste issue. Most of those working as manual scavengers come for certain castes and there is no interest in changing the social structure,” he said.He added that more than the government enforcing the law, if residents of Bengaluru could make a conscious decision not employ anyone to clear their sewage lines or sewage pits and insist on the use of machine, an ecosystem will be built. “When there is demand, there will be supply. In this case, a supply for using more technology to replace the man entering the sewage lines,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/manual-scavenging-continues-to-mar-karnataka-as-conviction-stays-zero-101614415524006.html
27-02-2021||Delhi||‘Cop said he didn’t see any blood’, alleges woman whose stalkers stabbed brother||A Delhi woman on Saturday alleged one of the policemen she first approached after her stalkers thrashed and stabbed her 17-year-old brother refused to acknowledge her complaint, according to news agency ANI. The woman’s statement came after her brother was beaten up and stabbed by three men in the national capital’s Kalkaji area when he reportedly objected to them following his sister and passing indecent remarks, the agency reported. The accused fled the spot."It was going on for two to three days. They hit my brother and stabbed him when he objected. When I went to a policeman who was around, he said he didn't see any blood. When I pointed out I am covered in it he shouted at me. Another policeman wrote my complaint," she told ANI.The boy, who was stabbed on the left side of the abdomen near Sarvodya Vidyalaya No 2 Kalkaji, has been admitted to AIIMS Trauma Centre in Delhi.Girl who was molested says, "It was going on for 2-3 days. They hit my brother & stabbed him when he objected. When I went to a Policeman who was around, he said he doesn't see any blood. When I pointed out I'm covered in it he shouted at me. Another Policeman wrote my complaint" pic.twitter.com/dl3TixlrYX"We have registered a case under Indian Penal Code sections 307 (attempt to murder), 354 D (stalking), 509 (word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) and further investigation is going on,” deputy commissioner of police (Southeast) RP Meena told PTI.Efforts are being made to trace the accused who are residents of JJ camp, Giri Nagar in Govindpuri area, Meena added.According to National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) data released in September last year, crimes in Delhi increased by over 20% from 2018 to 2019, a period when the national crime figures saw a rise of just three percent in cases registered under the Indian Penal Code (IPC).The capital city also continued to report a high number of rapes; 24 such crimes were reported every week on an average to the Delhi Police, according to the report. Rape cases in 2019 rose by 3% compared to the previous year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/cop-said-he-didn-t-see-any-blood-alleges-woman-whose-stalkers-stabbed-brother-101614412921056.html
27-02-2021||Delhi||1 found dead at factory fire site in Delhi’s Pratap Nagar||One person was found dead and a fire service personnel was injured after a fire broke out at a factory in Delhi’s Pratap Nagar area on Saturday, news agency ANI reported.The fire broke out after a liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) cylinder exploded in the premises, eyewitnesses were quoted as saying by ANI. At least 28 fire tenders have been pressed into service, the agency said.“We have successfully contained the fire. Cooling is underway,” fire officer Rajinder Atwal told ANI adding the fire service personnel, who was injured during the operation. has been admitted to a hospital.A Delhi Fire Service official said, according to news agency PTI, that a call about the fire was received at around 3.47am and the cause of the blaze is not known yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/fire-breaks-out-at-a-factory-in-delhi-s-pratap-nagar-fire-tenders-at-spot-101614388361882.html
27-02-2021||Delhi||9-year-old girl kidnapped, killed in east Delhi village||The body of a nine-year-old girl, who was kidnapped from east Delhi’s Khichripur three days ago, was found in the sugarcane fields of a village in Modinagar, near Ghaziabad, on Friday morning, the police said, adding that the autopsy has ruled out sexual assault.Four alleged kidnappers, who live in the same neighbourhood as the girl’s family, have been arrested in connection with the kidnap and murder.The arrested persons were identified by their first names -- Johnny alias Shiva, the key suspect, his cousin Naresh, Kailash and Tarun. “In the kidnapping and murder case of Kalyanpuri, four persons have been arrested and the weapon of the offence has been recovered,” said deputy commissioner of police (east) Deepak Yadav.Police said the four had kidnapped the girl, who was playing outside her home, to demand a ransom from her family.However, when they learnt that police had leads that could end in their arrest, the men panicked and allegedly killed the girl by smashing her head with an iron rod, the police said.“They killed the girl and threw her body in the sugarcane fields. The body was recovered after the interrogation of the arrested suspects,” the officer said.Violence in areaAs news of the girl’s murder spread through the neighbourhood, violence broke out by evening, with several people pelting stones at police personnel, alleging that the police had not taken the kidnapping complaint seriously and it was their laxity that led to her murder.A couple of police vehicles were damaged in the stone pelting. At least three persons were detained for the violence while police presence in the neighbourhood was intensified to maintain law and order.A senior police officer said it was a blind kidnapping case and the investigating team had been trying to gather leads from the day the case was registered.“The CCTV footage helped us get some leads about the suspects but their whereabouts were not known... We tracked them down using the IMEI numbers of their cellphones, but by the time we could arrest him and the other three suspects, they had already killed the girl,” said the officer, who asked not to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/9yearold-girl-kidnapped-killed-in-east-delhi-village-101614380236390.html
27-02-2021||Bhopal||Ex-MP Cong chief objects to entry of Godse worshiper into party||A day after the Congress’ Madhya Pradesh unit admitted a Nathuram Godse admirer into its fold, former Union minister Arun Yadav wrote an open letter on Friday to protest against the move, saying he “can’t sit silently” watching the entry into the party of a man he described as a murderer of Gandhian ideology.The Congress on Thursday inducted former Gwalior corporator Babulal Chaurasiya, who once built a temple dedicated to Mahatma Gandhi’s assassin, into the party in the presence of former chief minister Kamal Nath. “Many big politicians say Nathuram Godse was the first terrorist of India, but why are they silent over the induction of an admirer of Godse in the Congress party,” Yadav, a former president of the Congress’s Madhya Pradesh chapter, asked in the open letter to the party.He cited the example of Bhopal’s Pragya Thakur, the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Bhopal MP, who in the 2019 Lok Sabha election campaign described Godse as a patriot, a remark for which Prime Minister Narendra Modi said he wouldn’t ever forgive her. Yadav posed the rhetorical question: If Thakur joins the Congress in the future, would the party accept her, too?In the open letter, Yadav attacked his party leaders and questioned them about the Congress’s ideology. “Being a true soldier of the Gandhian ideology of Congress, I can’t sit silently. My struggle is not against any person, but it is dedicated to the ideology of Congress. I am ready to suffer any political damage for that.” Yadav noted that during his tenure as CM, Kamal Nath had an FIR registered against Chaurasiya and others for distributing pamphlets containing a statement by Godse and derogatory references to Mahatma Gandhi.Pradesh Congress Committee (MPCC) leaders said Yadav had expressed a personal opinion and defended Chaurasiya as a follower of Gandhian ideology who had been misguided by the Hindu Mahasabha about Godse.MPCC spokesperson Ajay Singh Yadav said Babulal Chaurasiya had only returned to a party to which he belonged before 2015. “He clearly said he was misguided by Hindu Mahasabha and he believes in Gandhian ideology and had nothing to do with Godse and RSS [Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh],” he added.The BJP took swipe at the Congress, saying the episode had exposed an internal feud among party leaders. Medical education minister Vishwas Sarang said: “The Congress is facing existential crises. Its leaders are fighting with each other for posts. Now, Yadav made it clear that the party leaders are confused about the party’s ideology too.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/exmp-cong-chief-objects-to-entry-of-godse-worshiper-into-party-101614374603042.html
27-02-2021||Mumbai||Just a trailer, says letter found in car near Mukesh Ambani's residence||Mumbai Police have found a note threatening the Ambani family in the SUV with explosives found near Reliance Industries Limited (RIL) chairman Mukesh Ambani’s house, Antilia. Their investigations have also revealed that the number plate on the car is fake, and the number actually belongs to the pilot car in the security convoy of Ambanis.Police officials said that the note was found in a bag bearing logo of “Mumbai Indians”, the Indian Premier League cricket team owned by the Ambanis.Directly addressed to Nita and Mukesh Ambani, the note claimed the vehicle with the gelatin sticks was just a trailer and that there was more to come.Taking serious note of the incident, Mumbai police crime branch has formed 12 teams to probe the matter. Ambani and his family are already under Z+ category protection. Reliance Industries is India’s most valuable company in terms of market value.The company on Friday issued a statement thanking Mumbai police for the efforts being taken to probe the matter.“We are thankful to Mumbai Police for their quick and immediate action. We are confident that Mumbai Police will complete their thorough investigation quickly,” said a company spokesperson.Meanwhile, a team from the National Investigation Agency (NIA) too reached Mumbai and has started a parallel probe.One of the police teams has found that the SUV used was stolen from Vikhroli area on February 17, and a fake number plate was affixed on it, said a police officer attached to the crime branch who asked not to be named.A Thane resident owns the SUV. He has told police that the SUV was lying unused for almost a year due to the lockdown. Last week, he took it for a drive to check it because he wanted to sell it, but found the steering was jamming. he parked it in Vikhroli, and took a cab home, but when he returned the following day, the vehicle was no longer where he left it. He registered an FIR at the Vikhroli police station on February 18.About 2.5kg of gelatin, in sticks, was found in the SUV, enough to trigger a low intensity explosion. However, there was no detonator or timing device. The police believe the explosive was purchased in Nagpur.The fake registration number chosen for the SUV was that of the lead car in the security convoy deployed for Nita Ambani, said the officer cited in the first instance. A second officer who is directly involved in the investigation said that the operation seems well planned.The police also found more number plates in the SUV and that there have been attempts to erase the chassis number of the SUV.Thus far, the police have found that the Scorpio was accompanied by an Innova, and that the two vehicles together moved towards Antilia.At about 2.18am, the Scorpio was abandoned near Antilia; its driver sat in the Innova and escaped from the spot, said a third police officer who asked not to be named.The Innova exited Mumbai at 3.05am through Mulund toll naka, this officer added. The registration number of the Innova car was found to be fake and cops suspect that this vehicle too was stolen. The Mumbai Anti-Terrorism Squad has also started a parallel probe into the matter.A Quick Response Team and police commandos have been posted outside Antilia after the incident.“An offence has been registered in this regard at Gamdevi Police Station, under sections 286, 465, 473, 506(2),120(B) IPC and u/s 4 of Explosive Substances Act 1908,” said Mumbai police spokesperson, deputy commissioner of police, Chaitanya Siriprolu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/just-a-trailer-says-letter-found-in-car-near-mukesh-ambani-s-residence-101614373353697.html
27-02-2021||Delhi||Delhi sees 256 fresh Covid cases, highest single day spike in 35 days||The Capital saw its highest single-day rise in Covid-19 infections in 35 days on Friday, adding 256 fresh cases of the infection. The city has seen the number of daily new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) infections inch up gradually, with over 200 cases being recorded for three days on the trot now, a spurt that comes as some states in the country — Maharashtra, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab and Chhattisgarh — have seen what appears to be the start of fresh waves of the infection.Further, Delhi’s Covid-19 test positivity rate has also increased gradually over the past few days, hitting 0.41% — the highest recorded in the Capital since January 29. Friday’s positivity rate was nearly double the 0.22% recorded in the city two weeks ago. Delhi conducted 62,768 tests, as per Friday’s bulletin, of which 41,775 used the gold standard RT-PCR method, while the rest used the rapid antigen method.The seven day average positivity rate – calculated on the basis of the number of tests and cases over the last seven days – has also increased to 0.30%, up from 0.24% last week and 0.21% the week before that.Experts regard the positivity rate as a crucial metric to gauge the spread of an infection. To be sure, the World Health Organization recommends a rate below 5% for two weeks for an infection to be considered under control. Delhi has not touched this number in its positivity rate since December 2, when it recorded 3,944 new infections.“I hope I am wrong, but the positivity rate has almost doubled in the last two weeks. The speed at which the positivity rate has increased leads me to believe that we might again see an increase in the number of cases like it is being seen in other states like Maharashtra. Now, we need to trace the areas from where the new cases are being reported and probably look at pre-emptive containment,” said Dr SK Sarin, director, Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences (ILBS), who headed Delhi government’s first expert committee on strategies to control the spread and manage Covid-19 cases.The fewest cases in a day was reported on February 16, when the city added just 94 new infections.The number of tests in the city has also gone down from its highest capacity of over 80,000 tests a day. This month on average 58,231 tests were conducted each day in the city. The proportion of the more accurate RT PCR tests has, however, increased to over 64%.Dr Sarin had also suggested that people living in regions reporting increase in cases be immunised as quickly as possible. However, Delhi has seen a decline in the number of immunisations, with just over 13,000 people getting the shot on Friday as compared to the highest of over 27,000.“The numbers have gone down because fewer people are coming in; there is a need for more motivation. Those who were motivated already took their first shot last week,” said a senior district level officer.Delhi, like much of the country, will not have immunisations on Satuday and Sunday as India transitions to CoWIN 2.0 that would allow people to self-register for vaccination.Government experts have also been stressing hard on not getting complacent, and to continue following Covid-19 appropriate behavior. “We have seen in other countries, wave after wave after wave, so we cannot afford to drop our guard just yet. There is a large percentage of population that is still susceptible so we must strictly follow Covid-19 appropriate behavior such as wearing a mask, maintaining physical distancing, avoiding large gatherings as far as possible, and observing hand hygiene among other things,” said Dr VK Paul, member (health), Niti Aayog, in Union health ministry’s Covid briefing earlier this week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-sees-256-fresh-covid-cases-highest-single-day-spike-in-35-days-101614372844372.html
27-02-2021||Noida||Three men in auto gang-rape GB Nagar woman in Hapur||A 30-year-old woman from Gautam Budh Nagar was allegedly gang-raped in Hapur district of Uttar Pradesh by two co-passengers and the driver of the autorickshaw she was travelling in late on Wednesday night, police said on Friday.A complaint has been filed against the three unidentified accused, but no arrests have been made so far.Police said that the woman works for a jewellery store at a mall in Ghaziabad’s Indirapuram and was heading home to Greater Noida after leaving work around 8:30pm on Wednesday night when the incident occurred.On Wednesday, she boarded the first auto from National Highway-9 and reached the Lal Kuan intersection in Ghaziabad around 9:15pm.From Lal Kuan intersection, she boarded another autorickshaw with three co-passengers and the driver — all men. Soon after one of the passengers de-boarded, the driver steered the auto 20km towards a secluded spot in Masuri area (Ghaziabad), bordering Pilkhuwa area of Hapur, where the three overpowered the woman and raped her, police said.According to police officials, the incident occurred around 10pm a short distance away from the highway and near a small canal in Hapur.“We received a call at around 3.30am on Thursday from control room in Ghaziabad about the incident. The scene of crime told by the woman is about 5-10 metres inside the jurisdiction of Hapur district and we immediately registered an FIR under IPC section of gangrape (Section 376 D) based on her complaint given at Pilkhuwa police station. We have formed three teams and are trying to trace the three unidentified men who, she said, were in the age group of around 30,” said Neeraj Kumar Jadaun, superintendent of police (Hapur), who also visited the scene of incident.“They stopped the auto before the Lal Kuan flyover, during which they gagged me and people sitting behind asked the driver to turn on the music system ... They then raped me one by one... Around 11.30pm they took me to the main road and waited for a bus. However, when none of the passing buses stopped, they made me board an auto back to Lal Kuan,” the woman said in her complaint.She stated that the suspects had snatched her mobile, so she begged her auto-driver to lend her his phone, which he refused claiming he had no balance. The auto then stopped at a juice shop at Masuri. But the vendor there too refused to help her saying that it was a case of kidnapping and directed her to reach Masuri police station nearby.The woman reached Masuri police station in Ghaziabad at around 11:30pm, after which the Ghaziabad police finally referred the matter to their counterparts in Hapur and later sent for medical examination.“After the woman reached us, we inquired the matter and referred the incident to the Hapur police who lodged the FIR. On our part, we have also formed one team to help investigation,” said Iraj Raja, superintendent of police (rural), Hapur.Additional superintendent of police (Hapur) Sarvesh Mishra said authorities were scanning CCTV footage in the area near the crime site to identify the suspects.The woman has a 10-year-old child and was living separately from her husband.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/three-men-in-auto-gang-rape-gb-nagar-woman-in-hapur-101614372658413.html
27-02-2021||Delhi||Delhi: 55-year-old mowed down by speeding car in Vasant Vihar||A 55-year-old man was killed after a speeding Mercedes-Benz car driven by a 18-year-old son of a diamond exporter hit his scooter in south Delhi’s Vasant Vihar outside a market on Thursday night, police said.The driver of the car, who, according to the police, was taking a joyride with his friends ran away, but was arrested on Friday morning.The police said that based on a medical examination conducted on Friday, he was not drunk at the time of the incident.The mishap, which happened at around 11.45 pm has been captured on a CCTV camera installed outside a shop in the market. The victim, Antony Joseph, a security guard, was on his way to meet his wife, who works in Vasant Vihar.The driver, Aryan Jain, was returning home with his two friends after a late-night drive in a Mercedes E 250 car, the police added.His car was coming from Outer Ring Road and was on the Vasant Marg.As it reached the A-block market, it hit a scooter that came out from a lane and took a right turn onto Vasant Marg.After hitting the scooter, the car rammed a tree and a telephone junction box, uprooting both of them , before crashing into the boundary wall of a bungalow and its guard room. The trio panicked and fled, the police said.Jain was identified and arrested on Friday morning after the police established the ownership of the car and contacted his family, which brought him to the police station. He was booked for rash and negligent driving causing death, and released on bail.“Jain’s medical examination showed that he was not drunk at the time of the mishap. He claimed that he tried to avoid hitting the scooter and lost control. We are carrying out our investigation to ascertain the exact sequence of events,” said deputy commissioner of police (southwest) Ingit Pratap Singh.Singh said Jain is studying in a UK university and will turn 19 in March. His father Sushil Jain has diamond and jewellery store at a shopping mall in Saket. “Jain had a learner’s driving licence,” added Singh. It wasn’t clear whether any of the others in the car had a licence. Indian laws allow someone with a learner’s licence to drive only when accompanied by someone with a licence.“The market was closed when the mishap took place. But when we learnt about it in the morning, we checked the CCTV footage. The footage shows that the Mercedes car was speeding when it hit the scooter. Some security guards who saw the accident told us that the scooter rider was flung several feet in the air while his scooter was thrown nearly 40 feet away,” said Aman Singh, a shopkeeper in the market.“The car stopped only after hitting the boundary wall and the guard room of a house. Had the car not hit the tree and the junction box, it may have entered the premises of the house after breaking its boundary wall. The scooter rider died on the spot,” said a local resident.Police said they were informed about the mishap by a local resident, who called the police control room. Joseph was rushed to the AIIMS Trauma Centre, where he was declared brought dead. At the time of the mishap, Joseph was going to meet his wife, who works as a cook at a Vasant Vihar bungalow for expatriates who work in the American Embassy.Joseph is survived by his wife and a 32-year-old son. Joseph worked as a security guard at a private company in Delhi’s Naraina while his son worked as a guide with a tour and travel company in Delhi. The father and son both lost their jobs between May and June last year because of the Covid-19 pandemic.There are at least 12-15 accidents reported across the city every day, according to Delhi police data. In 2020, there were 1163 fatal accidents across the city. The number in 2019 was 1433. Traffic police officers said that speeding is the most common reason why fatal accidents happen across the city.The number of accidents during the night hours, when the roads are relatively less crowded, is more compared to the day hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-55-year-old-mowed-down-by-speeding-car-in-vasant-vihar-101614372329744.html
27-02-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: For him, waste is wealth||His voice has nothing to particularly set him apart. If you overheard him chatting in a party, you wouldn’t think twice of it.But suddenly he cries out—“kabadi walla!”And instantly that same unremarkable voice turns into the universal cry of the trash collector, any trash collector, going about our city’s neighbourhoods asking dwellers to sell him the household stuff they no longer need. This voice has no resemblance to the man’s conversational voice.How is that possible?Wali Muhammed shrugs, looking amused.Calling himself a “kabadi walla,” or trash collector, he says he cycles around south Delhi’s Green Park, his trash collector’s voice echoing off the walls of the bungalows lining up the quiet alleys. Because it is morning and Mr Muhammed has just started, he has nothing to show on his bicycle for now.But from whom did he learn to make this cry, which sounds like any “kabadi walla” cry in any part of this city? Surely, there’s no training school for it.Mr Muhammed parks his bicycle on the side of the road, and seems to think hard. “It’s like asking from whom do baby birds learn to fly... they just start flying.” And so, according to his analogy, once a man decides to make his living as a “kabadi walla,” he automatically slips into this booming incarnation when at work. “The main thing is to cry out very loud, announcing who you are so that the people inside their houses”—here he gestures towards the surrounding buildings—“register your presence.”Mr Muhammed dismisses any hereditary connect to his professional voice. “My father was a farmer.” A farmer without a land, he notes, working as a farmhand on other people’s agricultural holdings in Aligarh district, in UP. There was no bright future in following his footsteps, so the young Mr Muhammed decided to build his future in Delhi. “I started as a labourer, carrying bricks to construction sites.” Only years later, he switched to his current profession.And now, he says in a satisfactory tone, his son is doing yet something else. “He has a job in a mobile phone company.”Mr Muhammed makes his rounds from 8am to 2pm, after which he sells his day’s collection to buyers, who deal with recyclable objects.He now pedals ahead, crying out “kabadi walla”, his voice undoubtedly breaching into the solidity of these houses, probably jolting out at least a few of the residents and making them aware of the existence of their neighbourhood “kabadi walla”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-for-him-waste-is-wealth-101614372135737.html
27-02-2021||West||TMC tries to hold fort as BJP aims to gain ground||West Bengal’s political narrative projects a bipolar electoral contest between the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP),with the Communist Party of India (Marxist), or CPI(M), and its Left Front partners, the Congress and cleric Abbasuddin Siddiqui’s Indian Secular Front trying to emerge as a viable third contender in parts of the state.On Friday, the Election Commission announced dates for the assembly elections in West Bengal, where the BJP is determined to win power. Polls in the state will be held in eight phases from March 27 to April 29.The schedule was announced in the backdrop assertions by chief minister Mamata Banerjee that the political battle between her TMC and the BJP was a personal battle as well; she has cited the Central Bureau of Investigation’s (CBI) investigation into a coal smuggling racket in which the agency has questioned her nephew and Lok Sabha MP Abhishek Banerjee’s wife and sister-in-law. “Threats of jail sentence cannot scare us. We have stood before guns in the past. We won’t be scared of fighting rats. I will not surrender as long as I am alive...,” Banerjee said at an event in Kolkata on January 21.To oust her government, the BJP is on a war footing. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has visited Bengal thrice in 30 days, followed by Union home minister Amit Shah, BJP president J P Nadda and over 30 Union ministers and senior BJP leaders from other states who Banerjee calls “outsiders with no roots in Bengal.” The party is organising over a dozen events every day.Bengal BJP spokesperson and convenor of the party’s Kolkata zone election committee, Debjit Sarkar, said, “This election is about getting relief from the misrule, anarchy and nepotism established by the TMC since 2011. This poll is about building a golden Bengal and establish democracy. We hope holding the polls in several phases will help counter the electoral malpractices the TMC has expertised in.”To trace the growth of the BJP vis-à-vis that of the TMC’s, political experts often look back to 2009. In the 2009 Lok Sabha elections, when the TMC was not in power, the Left Front secured 43.3% votes but won only 15 seats. In comparison, 19 seats went to the TMC although Mamata Banerjee had a lower vote share of 31.18%. In that election, the BJP secured only 6.14% vote share and one seat.The BJP has drastically improved its position since then, winning two Lok Sabha seats in 2014 and 18 in 2019. In terms of the assembly segments, the BJP is already ahead of the others in 122 assembly seats in 2021 and the TMC is leading in 163.In terms of vote share in the 2019 polls, the TMC won 43.69 % against 40.64 % secured by the BJP. The CPI(M)’s vote share came down to 6.34 % and the Congress received only 5.67%.The most impressive achievement of the BJP in the last election was its penetration into regions with a substantial tribal presence, such as the districts of Purulia, Bankura, West Midnapore and also parts of north Bengal where it managed to win seven of eight Lok Sabha seats.The BJP’s success in north Bengal and the south Bengal districts of Malda, Nadia and Hooghly is seen as a sign of its popularity among Hindus who are either descendants of refugees from Bangladesh or who crossed the border into India to escape religious persecution.The same reason applies to the Dalit Matua community that helped the BJP win the Bongaon Lok Sabha seat in North 24 Parganas district. In the same district, the support of Hindi-speaking people from Bihar and other states helped the saffron camp win the Barrackpore Lok Sabha seat as well.Politicians from across the spectrums concede that religion, caste and creed have been never so important in any Bengal election in the past as they are in the upcoming contest.Bengal Congress president Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said, “Only a multi-phase polling can stop electoral malpractices we have seen in the past.”CPI(M) politburo member Md Salim also questioned the multi-phase polling. “This was jointly decided by the TMC and the BJP who are partners. How come everybody knew in advance that polls will be held in multiple phases?” Indian Secular Front leader Abbasuddin Siddiqui threw a fresh challenge at Banerjee, saying a member from of his family will contest the Nandigram seat (in East Midnapore district) that she decided to contest after it was vacated by her aide-turned-adversary, BJP’s Suvendu Adhikari.The most important role, poll contenders say, is going to be played by Muslims.According to the 2011 census, Bengal’s population stood at 91.3 million. It was projected to reach 101.9 million in 2021 and around 30% of this population comprises Muslims.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/elections/west-bengal-assembly-election/tmc-tries-to-hold-fort-as-bjp-aims-to-gain-ground-101614370477635.html
27-02-2021||Delhi||Delhi airport’s Terminal 1 likely to be reopened from March 25||The Terminal 1 (T1) of Delhi’s Indira Gandhi international airport will resume domestic flight operations starting March 25, according to officials privy to the development.Airport officials said only a portion of the terminal will be made operational for now, as the ongoing expansion work of the building will continue. For now, the terminal will cater to approximately half the number of flights it handled before the pandemic-induced lockdown.Officials in the know of the matter said the decision to reopen T1 was taken because of the increasing domestic flight operations in the country. Confirming the development, Sachin Badshah, deputy inspector general of the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), which secures the airport, said a decision had been taken to open T1 starting March 25.“Earlier it was decided that the terminal will be made operational from March 28. However, the date has been preponed to March 25. CISF will have its adequate arrangements as required. Even when the terminal was closed completely, because of the ongoing expansion work, our staff was deployed throughout to secure the facility,” Badshah said.The domestic terminal was shut last year on March 25, two days after international flight operations were suspended due to the Covid-19 outbreak in the country. After two months, as air operations in the country resumed, on May 25, only Terminal 3 was opened. Later, Terminal 2 resumed functioning on October 1. Terminal 1, however, has remained shut due to the ongoing expansion work.Asked about the ongoing expansion work at T1, Delhi airport operator DIAL (Delhi International Airport Ltd) refused to comment.An officer from the Delhi airport, who wished not to be named, said the terminal building will start operating at half its capacity and will be open completely in phases as construction work is on in full swing.“Only a portion of the terminal will be made operational now. Other areas are at present under construction. For now, roughly about 150 flights will operate in a day from T1 including both departure and arrivals. Before the Covid-19 lockdown at least 280-300 flights operated in a day from T1. The daily passenger footfall of the T1 before Covid-19 was also 43,000 to 45,000 passengers a day, which is also likely to go down by half due to the restricted flight operations. The operations are limited because of the ongoing expansion and as flights at Delhi airport are also yet to recover completely,” the official said.Currently, IndiGo and GoAir flights are operating from the T2 terminal. Air India, Spice Jet, and Vistara are operating from T3. Another CISF officer said their staff will also be deployed according to the space that will be made available to flyers. “There can be a shortfall in the number of staff deployed if the terminal is opened with a limited capacity. We will ensure complete security of the terminal. Even when the terminal was shut our security arrangements were adequate and no one was allowed to enter the terminal building only after screening,” the officer said, requesting anonymity.T1 caters to domestic flight operations at the Delhi airport. The domestic airlines operating from Delhi airport said they have not been officially conveyed about shifting their operations back to T1. However, some passengers who are booking their tickets for dates after March 25 are being informed that their flights will operate from T1.Dolly Thakur, 35, a private teacher from Delhi, who booked a flight from Delhi to Patna with IndiGo airlines for April 28, said her air ticket mentions that her boarding will be from T1. “I had to reconfirm with the airline and I was told that the flight will operate from T1,” she said.Officials from the airport said that the expansion of T1 will take at least a year and half to be complete and will double the passenger capacity from 20 million to 40 million passengers per annum. “The work will be complete by 2023. Under the current expansion plan the apron area of T1 will be expanded to 6.29 lakh sq metres from 2.82 lakh sq meters. The total area of the terminal (departure and arrival) will be 1.92 lakh sq meters, around three times of the existing 64,000 sq meters,” the officer said, wishing not to be named.The newly developed facility will also ramp up the baggage screening capacity and also introduce boarding bridges at the terminal building to enhance passenger experience and reduce their hassle. “The baggage screening capacity will go up from almost 2,800-3,000 per hour to 5,000-6,000 per hour, almost double. The terminal till now had no boarding bridges but will have 22 when fully revamped,” the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-airport-s-terminal-1-likely-to-be-reopened-from-march-25-101614370233327.html
27-02-2021||Bangalore||Rahul Dev: The Kannada film industry has grown immensely in the last five years||After kick starting his Kannada film journey in 2004 with Omkara, Rahul Dev went on to do as many as 15 films in the language. The actor says he is amazed to see how much things have changed for the better in the Kannada film industry in the last few years.“I have not worked there in the past five or six years but I have seen the Kannada film industry grow immensely. Look at KGF (2018), it was such a huge hit. It was the first Kannada film to enter the ₹100 crore club. Now KGF 2 is coming and it stars Sanjay Dutt as the main villain, that is just amazing,” says Dev, who has also starred in films such as Soundarya (2007), Bombaat (2008), Yodha (2009)and Abhimanyu (2014).Dev says he would love to get back and do more work in Kannada films. “It is a growing industry. Some very nice and sensitive films have been made in Kannada. I have been mostly part of commercial films over there. They are very quick in making them when I compare to Hindi films. Their economics are different,” he adds.Noting the other changes in the Kannada film industry, the 52-year-old says, “Over the last six years, the overall turnover of the Kannada films have changed humongously. You have actors like Sudeepa, Darshan, Puneeth Rajkummar and Yash, who are all big stars. It is a growing market.”However, Kannada films is not the only reasons why Dev remembers Bengaluru and talk so fondly about it.“I did my engineering from there. I studied in R V College of Engineering. I also met my guru (Tarneiv ji) in the city. I have such precious memories of Bengaluru. During my trying times, Bengaluru helped me in terms of meeting my master there. It was so important. I have visited the city so many times. Kuch toh likha hai bangalore mein mera. Four years of college, five years with my guru and then 15 films in Kannada. At one point of time I even owned a house in the city. I love how beautiful the city is and how there are non rowdy people. I have seen the city change,” he concludes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/rahul-dev-the-kannada-film-industry-has-grown-immensely-in-the-last-five-years-101614370262415.html
27-02-2021||Other||At least 42 students of PTU fall sick after eating mess food; hospitalised||At least 42 students of the Punjab Technical University (PTU), Kapurthala, were hospitalised after they complained of vomiting and diarrhoea after eating food at the hostel mess on Thursday night, district health department officials said.PTU registrar Sandeep Kazal said as soon as the university officials got information about the students falling sick, they rushed them to a local dispensary, where they got first-aid and then took them to the Kapurthala civil hospital.While the students undergoing treatment at the hospital stated that at least 80 students had consumed the food at the mess and suffered food poisoning, Kazal said that 28 students were hospitalised. He added that there may be more students who got treated, but only 28 were admitted to the hospital. Kazal added that the university has requested the civil hospital to depute one or two doctors on campus in case any other student faces any complications. Food supply inspector Harjot Singh said a team had visited the hostel mess and found that the quality of food products was good but there was no cleanliness in the mess. “We have issued a notice to the varsity to clean the mess within two days,” said Singh.Kazal, meanwhile, stated that the mess was managed a students’ committee and that the university has formed a committee headed by dean student welfare (DSW) to probe the matter. PTU vice-chancellor Ajay Kumar Sharma remained incommunicado.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/at-least-42-students-of-ptu-fall-sick-after-eating-mess-food-hospitalised-101614369483446.html
27-02-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab likely to rope in 675 private hospitals to push vaccination drive||With the next phase of Covid-19 vaccination set to start from March 1 for senior citizens and those aged above 45 with co-morbidities, the Punjab health department is planning to rope in as many as 675 private hospitals to give the campaign a big push. The healthcare facilities, including 605 private hospitals which are already providing treatment under the Ayushman Bharat health insurance scheme, have been asked to provide the details about the number of vaccination does they can administer on daily basis as per their infrastructure. “The district health officials have received details about their capacity and further modalities will be clear by early next week,” said a senior department functionary. Besides, the government has finalised 60 more private hospitals that are already carrying out Covid-19 testing and are offering treatment to those found infected. In this phase, those aged above 60 can walk in at any government or private hospital registered under the vaccination drive with their identity proof to receive the shot. State health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said while the vaccination shots will be provided for free at government health facilities, one will have to pay for the same in private healthcare centres at a rate as decided by the central government from time to time. “We are yet to receive the guidelines on this from the Centre. Though nothing is final as of now, it is likely that the private hospitals will be able to charge fee for providing the facilities as one needs half an hour of observation after vaccination,” an official said.Co-morbid patients will have to show prescription The state government is following the NEGVAC (National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19) guidelines which state that those aged between 45 and 60 with co-morbidities can take the shots with the prescription of a registered medical practitioner. Health minister Sidhu said that to augment and simplify the process of vaccination registration, the Union ministry of health is coming up with COWIN 2.0 app based on the feedback received during the implementation of the first phase-1 of the vaccination drive. “Senior citizens will be able to register and book an appointment for vaccination using the COWIN 2.0 portal or through other IT applications such as ArogyaSetu etc,” he added. Punjab Covid-19 nodal officer Dr Rajesh Bhaskar said, “Unregistered health care workers and frontline workers, who could not receive the vaccine shots in the first phase, can also walk in to get the jabs.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-likely-to-rope-in-675-private-hospitals-to-push-vaccination-drive-101614369062598.html
27-02-2021||Other||CCI steps aside in Punjab as private players buy cotton above MSP||With private players beginning to pay cotton farmers up to ₹6, 240/quintal, which is ₹515 above the minimum support price (MSP), the Cotton Corporation of India (CCI) has stepped aside. According to information available with the Punjab State Agricultural Marketing Board, of the 35.55 lakh quintal crop sold in various places of the state till February 18, the CCI purchased a record 23.39 lakh quintal on MSP in 2020-21. Private buyers, meanwhile, have bought more than 12 lakh quintal till last week, and almost all of this purchase was at rates higher than the MSP of ₹5,725 per quintal fixed for ‘long staple’ varieties that have a length of 27.5 to 28.5mm.State cotton coordinator Rajnish Goel said an estimated 15-18 lakh quintal cotton is still being held back by farmers who hope for a further increase in rates.“After CCI started buying cotton from October 1 last year, farmers brought about 10 lakh quintal kharif crop to various purchase centres of the cotton-growing belt in south Malwa in the first month. For the same period in 2019, the arrival was 5.71 lakh quintals. CCI made an elaborated arrangement to meet a major surge in arrivals this season,” said Goel.CCI enters the market when rates are below the MSP and the central agency pays cotton growers after meeting the prescribed norms.CCI assistant general manager and Punjab in-charge Neeraj Kumar said the agency paid about ₹1,525 crore to cotton growers through direct payment in 2020-21. CCI is paying farmers since 2019 where the middleman has no role in cotton purchase.“Major purchase was halted across the state from January 5 but CCI continued buying cotton from farmers in small quantities in Muktsar till the end of last month. CCI did not buy cotton stock for over a month as rates in mandis soared and benefited farmers in a big way,” said Kumar.Of nearly 43 lakh quintal cotton production in Punjab in 2019, the CCI had purchased 3.5 lakh bales or 17.5 lakh quintal.But in the ongoing season, CCI’s purchase share at MSP has surged by 33%.Industry sources credit CCI for playing a major role in market stabilisation by purchasing the produce at MSP amid a slump in the yarn sector in 2019 in India and aboard due to a pandemic outbreak. No major case of resentment over delayed payment by the central agency was highlighted by farmers of farm rights groups.Indian Cotton Association Limited president Mahesh Sharda said as there was a major drop in demand for cotton by the industry, CCI made a crucial contribution by purchasing raw cotton at MSP.“In 2020-21 season, CCI prevented distress sale by buying the most stock of the kharif crop. As the global situation strengthened amid the Covid-19 scare, CCI further contributed by selling cotton to Indian and overseas users. CCI has been able to exhaust about 70% of the cotton stock of the last two years to meet the demand by the industry,” said Sharda.In 2019, cotton was sown on 5.01 lakh hectares, the highest in a decade.A progressive farmer like Baldev Singh of Bathinda’s Bajak village said the centre should enhance MSP for cotton and the announcement should come before the month-long sowing season, starting from April 15 to motivate farmers to replace cotton with paddy. “Last year was excellent for cotton and then average yield was 10-12 quintal/acre. The surge in the cost of diesel will have a direct impact on farm expenditures and the centre should increase MSP accordingly. The Punjab government should also motivate farmers to prefer cotton in the semi-arid districts for water conservation,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cci-steps-aside-in-punjab-as-private-players-buy-cotton-above-msp-101614368822967.html
27-02-2021||Lucknow||Four days after woman found burnt, four accused arrested||Four people, including a woman, have been arrested on the basis of the statement given by a 21-year-old woman found with severe burn injuries in Shahjahanpur on Monday, police officials said Friday.According to police officials, the three male accused set the woman on fire when she resisted a rape attempt. “All the accused are students of the same college and are senior to the victim,” said Shahajahpur superintendent of police, S Anand.The woman identified the accused in her statement recorded before a magistrate, the official said. Her woman’s condition is still critical, officials said.The accused have denied the allegations. The father of one of the accused said, “Our children are being framed by the police to hide their failure.”An FIR has been filed under sections 376D (gang rape), 120B (criminal conspiracy) and 201 (causing disappearance of evidence) of the IPC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/four-days-after-woman-found-burnt-four-accused-arrested-101614368271978.html
27-02-2021||Other||Agent held for issuing fake Covid-19 report to job seeker near Mumbai||Naya Nagar police arrested a 30-year-old recruitment agent from Mira Road for allegedly issuing a fake Covid-19 test report to a Punjab-based job aspirant. The accused, Dhiraj Deepbandhu Jha, had taken ₹1.45 lakh from the complainant on the pretext of securing a job for him abroad. “When Jha failed to find the complainant a job, he pestered the accused to return his money. So the accused lied to him about finding him a job in Dubai and arranged for a tourist visa for the man. He also arranged for a fake Covid-19 test report for the complainant to travel,” said a police officer. As the complainant had not undergone an antigen or reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test, he found something amiss and approached the police in Mira Road. “The Covid-negative certificate was forged and we are checking the authenticity of the other documents, including the four-day Dubai visa arranged for the victim. On Wednesday, we arrested Jha for cheating and forgery. A court in Thane has remanded him to two-day police custody. We are probing the case further and more arrests are possible as Jha may have duped more people in a similar manner,” the officer added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/agent-held-for-issuing-fake-covid-19-report-to-job-seeker-near-mumbai-101614368042429.html
27-02-2021||Other||Cases rise, but Mumbai’s Covid positivity rate still at 3-5%||As the city sees a rise in the number of Covid-19 cases, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has ramped up its testing in the past two weeks to an average of 18,000-22,000 per day against 11,000-15,000 tests conducted in January and the first week of this month. In the past one week, Mumbai has seen a spike in the number of Covid-19 cases reported daily. This is the third time this month that Mumbai has reported over 1,000 cases in a single day. On Friday, Mumbai reported 1,035 cases and three deaths, taking the tally to 323,879 and toll to 11,466. On Wednesday, Mumbai reported 1,167 Covid-19 cases, while on Thursday, it reported 1,145 fresh cases. Before this, the city had recorded over 1,000 cases in November. There are 7,899 active cases in the city at present.However, despite the surge in the cases, the daily positivity rate is painting a hopeful picture for Mumbai. Positivity rate is the total number of cases tested positive for Covid-19 against the total tests done.Over the past one week, Mumbai has reported a daily positivity rate between 3% and 6%, even as the overall positivity rate in the city stands at 10%. So far, Mumbai has conducted 3,230,798 tests, and has a total of 323,879 Covid-19 positive cases. The average positivity rate in February till Friday is 4% against the 3.98% recorded in the entire month of January.“We’ve been tracking the positivity rate. Despite the high number of tests, the number of infected patients is under control. This is a good sign,” additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani, who is in-charge of the public health department, said earlier this week. Mumbai’s average positivity rate peaked at 37% in June 2020, according to information from BMC. At the time, the civic body was conducting an average of 4,000-5,000 tests per day.On Thursday, BMC conducted 22,113 tests, of which Mumbai’s daily positivity rate was 4.6%. Similarly on Wednesday, BMC conducted 23,315 Covid-19 tests and the daily positivity rate was 4.9%. However, these are approximate figures, said a senior civic official. “When BMC issues an official statement on the number of Covid-19 cases reported on any day, they are the new infections. However, when we calculate the positivity rate, we also take into account those who are testing positive for a second time, as part of the mandatory test required to be done before discharging a patient from a hospital,” said the official.If the second test result also comes positive, the patient’s details are updated on Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) portal, but it is not counted as a fresh infection by the civic body for the day. Hence, BMC takes into account a difference of approximately 1% while calculating the daily positivity rate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cases-rise-but-mumbai-s-covid-positivity-rate-still-at-35-101614367802686.html
27-02-2021||Other||77-year-old killed in bungalow in south Mumbai; domestic help prime suspect||A 77-year-old woman was allegedly murdered in her two-storey seafacing bungalow, Prasanna Kutir, in Worli on Thursday night, even as her family members were in the other rooms, said police. Her gold bangles and a watch, collectively worth ₹4 lakh, are missing, said police.Her domestic help, Amar, 25, and his unidentified partner are the prime suspects. There is no clarity if the help was registered with the police.The victim, Vishni Dolwani, used to live in the bungalow with her husband, son, daughter-in-law and grandchildren. The family owns an automobile radiator manufacturing business. On Thursday night, Dolwani was watching television on the ground floor, while her husband was sleeping in the first floor room. Her son and his family were on the second floor.“The accused tied the victim’s hands and legs and gagged her with a piece of cloth and robbed her bangles and watch. She died of suffocation. The crime has been committed by more than one person,” Dhanajay Fadtare, inspector, Worli police station said. Dolwani’s son Pankaj realised what had happened around 1am and informed the police. Her body was taken to Nair hospital, where the post-mortem was conducted. The family is yet to check if anything else has been robbed from the home. The bungalow’s CCTV was not working at the time of the incident, said the police.“The domestic help, identified as 25-year-old Amar, is the prime suspect, as he is missing since the incident. He had started working in the victim’s house around two months ago,” another officer said.“We have registered an offence under sections 302 (murder), 392 (robbery) and 34 (common intention) and the investigation is on. A team of police personnel are on the lookout for the accused,” Fadtare added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/77yearold-killed-in-bungalow-in-south-mumbai-domestic-help-prime-suspect-101614367441859.html
27-02-2021||Mumbai||‘1 year after Dombivli MIDC road turned pink, no drop in pollution’||A year after a road in Dombivli Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) turned pink, there is still no change in the pollution situation in this area, reveals a study by NGO Vanshakti.As per the reports of the water samples collected and tested from various drains in MIDC by the MPCB, the water appears to be in different colours – blackish, light brown and light green. The NGO also claimed that the water had a stench of ammonia and sulphuric acid.Vanshakti visited several locations in Dombivli MIDC on February 9 and also raised a complaint to the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB), Kalyan division, regarding rampant pollution caused by the industries in the region.Stalin D, director, Vanshakti, said, “The pollution situation has not changed in the MIDC area of Dombivli as the drains have bad odour, which affects the air in the nearby areas. The drain water also has different colours. If this situation continues, it will be difficult to even pass through Dombivli MIDC.”Last year, a road along the storm water drain near tempo naka, phase 2 of Dombivli MIDC turned pink, after the silt cleaned from the drain spilled on the road during transportation.Activists and residents claimed chemical effluents in silt have turned the road to pink colour. This also got the attention of CM Uddhav Thackeray, who visited the road and directed the factory owners to follow norms or shut the units.The MIDC claimed that the work on storm water drains, which is one cause of pollution in the area, was supposed to be completed in May 2020, though is extended to 2022.Sanjay Nanaware, executive engineer of Dombivli MIDC, said,” The work is expected to be completed by next year. Half the work is over and the remaining half is being undertaken.”The MIDC took up the work of storm water drains in May 2019, 32 years after it set up a base there. The MIDC is spending ₹22Cr, in which it will cover around 35km-40km storm water drain line, which passes through most of the roads in Dombivli MIDC region.An officer from MPCB, who did not wish to be named, said,” We have collected the samples from the drains. It is true that the water changes colour while there is a stench in the air. This is due to the on-going work on the storm water drain. However, the pH level recorded is between 5 and 8, which is not dangerous. We have asked the authorities to speed up the work.”Action plan still a distant dream An action plan was prepared on November 11 last year followed by the directions from the Supreme Court on November 5.The action plan emphasised on several steps that were asked to be completed within a span of two to seven months. These included setting up vigilance teams of officials of MPCB, MIDC and local civic bodies, installation of pH sensor-based alarm system at major hotspots, CCTV by MIDC at hotspots, to conduct regular surprise visits and penal action, effluent conveyance pipeline network by MIDC, installation of GPS tracking system for tankers, MIDC to monitor tanker movement, impose blanket ban on tanker movements between 6pm and 6am, and MPCB to conduct periodic audits of factories. The action plan includes 25 points that were supposed to be adhered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/1-year-after-dombivli-midc-road-turned-pink-no-drop-in-pollution-101614366182028.html
27-02-2021||Mumbai||Navi Mumbai residents complain of illegal dumping of debris at Lotus Lake||The residents of Sector 27, Nerul, complained of landfilling and illegal dumping of debris in Lotus Lake destroying its beauty. Lotus Lake adjacent to Amra Marg Road, which connects Uran Phata to Palm Beach Road, has been wearing an unpleasant look for a few months. The plot adjoining the lake is beautified by Cidco, who, however, deny any dumping in the lake.KP Sherif, 62, a resident of Sector 27, said, “Lotus Lake is next to our society building and has been declared as wetland in Navi Mumbai. Wetlands are highly sensitive and protected areas. Any violation or interference is subjected to stringent provisions of law. We are fortunate that we are residing in the vicinity of this natural phenomenon. Till last year, it flourished with lotus and other plants. Cidco has always remained negligent, though its duty is to protect the lake. During the lockdown, this wetland has severely been affected by encroachments and dumping of debris.”Land-levelling work has been undertaken at one end of the debris while heaps are dumped on the other side. Encroachments by hutments is another issue here.Meanwhile, Saluja Sutar, ex-corporator of the area, said, “The work going on has affected the natural habitat and is hazardous for the lake. There is no fencing done to protect the lake. We demanded that the lake area be under us for developing a garden around it. If Cidco doesn’t cater to this need, we will consider protesting for the same in future.”Meanwhile, the Cidco PRO said, “The work of levelling the plot near the lake is in progress. During this work, however, all the technical norms are being followed and the lake is not harmed in any way. We would be looking into the debris dumping issue and will have a watchman stationed, if needed, to make sure no illegal dumping happens.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/navi-mumbai-residents-complain-of-illegal-dumping-of-debris-at-lotus-lake-101614365881313.html
27-02-2021||Delhi||No gunshot wounds on man who died during R-Day : Delhi, UP cops tell Delhi HC||The Delhi and Uttar Pradesh police on Friday told the Delhi high court that the 25-year-old farmer, who died after his tractor overturned during the protesting farmers’ tractor rally on Republic Day, had not suffered any gunshot wounds.The police of the two states have made the submission based on the post-mortem and X-Ray reports, given by the District Hospital at Rampur in UP, which prima facie states that “there was no gunshot injury in the body of the deceased”.The report by the police of the two states comes on a plea by the deceased farmer’s — Navreet Singh— grandfather that had contended that his grandson had sustained a gunshot injury to his head.The police said that according to the post-mortem report, the young farmer died due to a head injury as a result of the accident .The Delhi Police, represented by Delhi government standing counsel Rahul Mehra and advocate Chaitanya Gosain, has also relied upon the footage collected from CCTV cameras located at the incident spot on Deen Dayal Upadhyay Marg -- where the young farmer died — and said that the man was driving the tractor at high speed and the vehicle overturned after hitting some barricades.It said that the footage also shows that the police personnel were running away from the speeding tractor and that none of them fired upon the vehicle or the driver.The Delhi Police has also said that CCTV footage further indicates that the protestors did not take the injured Navreet Singh to any nearby hospital and instead they attacked the ambulances that reached the site after hearing about the accident. They kept the body on the road for five hours and then spread rumours that he was killed in police firing.The UP police, in its status report, have stated that no FIR has been registered by it in connection with the death as claimed by the petitioner.“It is further submitted that the videography of the post-mortem or original X-Ray plates — which are medico-legal documents — cannot be given to the family of the deceased by the medical department,” it has said in its report.The petition, filed through advocates Vrinda Grover and Soutik Banerjee, has sought a court-monitored SIT probe into the death of the young farmer.The high court on Friday listed the matter for further hearing on March 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/no-gunshot-wounds-on-man-who-died-during-r-day-delhi-up-cops-tell-delhi-hc-101614365656414.html
27-02-2021||Dehradun||'For green bonus compensation, Uttarakhand should request UNEP': Niti Aayog VC||Rajeev Kumar, vice-chairman of NITI Aayog, on Friday, said that for the green bonus, Uttarakhand should request the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) under the carbon credit compensation system.Kumar said this while attending a function organised by the Himalayan Environmental Studies and Conservation Organization (HESCO), a Dehradun-based NGO involved in the development of environmentally sustainable technologies. He also inaugurated a water mill built by the NGO in Dehradun on its premisesCarbon credits are part of national and international attempts to mitigate the growth in concentrations of greenhouse gases. According to experts, carbon credit means any tradable certificate or permit representing the right to emit one tonne of carbon dioxide or the equivalent amount of different greenhouse gas. One carbon credit equals one tonne of carbon dioxide, or carbon dioxide equivalent gases.Uttarakhand government has been seeking Green Bonus as compensation for the conservation of its forests by not expanding the industrial development by chopping forests.Kumar also laid stress on focusing equally on ecology and economy, saying that they go side by side. He said without ecology, the economy cannot go a long way.Anil Joshi, 'founder of HESCO, said in his presentation that the slogan of 'Atma nirbhar Bharat' or 'self-reliant India' matches with their core philosophy that local needs of people should be met locally. “Prosperity of Bharat cannot be ensured without taking villages and their local economy into account,” he said.Talking about the importance of water mills in local Himalayan ecology, Joshi said it is one of the most easily accessible traditional forms of hydropower, which was earlier used for grinding wheat.“Now with advances in technology, watermills can be developed to generate power for villages in the upper reaches of the Himalayas. One watermill has the capacity of generating two to five kilowatts of power. We should have a Himalayan network of all the streams which can be tapped to generate power,” he said Joshi.The United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) is the leading global environmental authority that sets the global environmental agenda, promotes the coherent implementation of the environmental dimension of sustainable development within the United Nations system, and serves as an authoritative advocate for the global environment, according to the UNEP website.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/for-green-bonus-compensation-uttarakhand-should-request-unep-niti-aayog-vc-101614365031533.html
27-02-2021||Mumbai||No financial irregularities in Covid testing: Navi Mumbai civic body panel report||A three-member inquiry committee set up to probe into the false-negative reports of Covid-19 tests, prepared by some testing centres under the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC), has submitted its report to the municipal commissioner. The panel has indicated that there were no financial irregularities as alleged by an activist.The report also highlighted that it was a faulty registration procedure that led to the addition of some people to the ICMR website even as no Covid tests were conducted on them.A city-based activist, in November, had alleged that some testing laboratories under the NMMC would seek details of the family members of a person visiting the Covid-19 testing centre and then would prepare fake negative reports in their names to show that tests were conducted on all of them in order to claim funding for each test.Following media reports on the activist’s allegation, the civic chief set up an inquiry committee to probe the allegation. The committee submitted an 11,591 page report to the municipal commission on Thursday.As per the report, the committee reached out to around 1,51,956 citizens who had reportedly undergone either antigen or RT-PCR test for Covid-19 between July 16 and November 30, 2020. The committee had interacted with them through a dedicated call centre and asked those people whether they had actually undergone the tests. Of the 1,51,965 citizens, 1,50,359 admitted to have undergone the tests. However, 1,597 citizens said they did not go for any test.Likewise, the committee made another verification by physically visiting a total of 1,845 citizens’ home. Of these, they found that 1,843 had gone for the tests and the remaining two did not.“After checking all the documents the committee came to the conclusion that 7,872 additional entries were made on the ICMR website that was a result of faulty registration procedures,” said an official from the public relation department.“The committee also checked the inventory of antigen test kits. The civic body had bought a total of 2,40,000 kits of which 2,13,604 kits were used while 4,717 were found defective. And, a total of 21,679 kits were available in the inventory. Thus, by recording statements of nodal officers, doctors, and other staff the committee concluded that there were no financial irregularities in the testing of Covid-19” he added.Despite repeated attempts, the NMMC commissioner, Abhijit Bangar, remained unavailable for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/no-financial-irregularities-in-covid-testing-navi-mumbai-civic-body-panel-report-101614365701601.html
27-02-2021||Chandigarh||Six inmates to work as RJs at Ambala Central Jail||After successful attempts in Faridabad and Panipat jails, six inmates have been selected to work as radio jockeys (RJs) at the Ambala Central Jail, where a radio station was inaugurated by Haryana additional chief secretary (home) Rajiv Arora, along with DGP (jails) K Selvaraj, on Friday. Arora said the jail radio was started in three Haryana prisons for the welfare of prisoners and induce positive energy among them. It aims to promote art, creativity and harmony in the prison, he added. As per details, 21 detainees were selected as RJs from three jails of Haryana, out of whom six are from Ambala and have been trained by Vartika Nanda, founder of an NGO, Tinka Tinka Foundation, in a workshop. There are 19 jails in the state and to enhance prison reforms, such activities will be expanded to all of them, officials said. Selvaraj said, “The first segment of setting up radios in jails has been completed and now, it will come up in four other prisons. A positive change would be visible among the inmates soon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/six-inmates-to-work-as-rjs-at-ambala-central-jail-101614365642755.html
27-02-2021||Chandigarh||Mohali fire dept gives 15-day ultimatum to 600 violators||Waking up from deep slumber after one year, the Mohali fire department has finally directed 600 violators in high-rise buildings, commercial establishments and industries to obtain no-objection certificates from it within 15 days or face sealing proceedings.It was in February last year that the department issued notices to 693 fire-safety violators under the municipal corporation limits, but only 93 complied with its orders.In fact, just a few days later, on March 1, fire broke out in the basement of Vishal Mega Mart in Phase 5, turning readymade clothes worth lakhs into ashes. Earlier, 2019 had witnessed two major fires at industrial units in Dera Bassi, which left 18 workers injured. A factory on the Barwala road in Dera Bassi was gutted in December last year too. “We could not act earlier due to the lockdown imposed in the wake of the pandemic, but now we will be acting tough. We have asked the violators to get the NOC or we will be sealing their building after 15 days as per the fire Act. We will not compromise with fire safety,” said MC commissioner Kamal Kumar Garg. In the survey report last year, the fire department had identified various properties that did not comply with fire-safety norms. The violations included presence of only a single entry and exit point, which could be dangerous in an emergency.Fire extinguishers were missing on many floors and did not have ISI mark. Hose reels, smoke detection alarm system and illuminated exit signs were also found missing in most of the buildings.While there was no underground static water storage tank of 75,000-litre capacity with pump as required under fire-safety rules, terrace water tanks with at least 10,000-litre capacity were also found missing. Besides loose electricity wiring in most showrooms, absence of a fire control room or emergency lifts with firemen switch were also among the violations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mohali-fire-dept-gives-15-day-ultimatum-to-600-violators-101614365641385.html
27-02-2021||Chandigarh||Painter held for wife’s murder in Mohali||The painter who had strangulated his 23-year-old wife to death at their house in Phase 11’s Amb Sahib Colony on Wednesday night was arrested from Sector 76 on Friday. Kamal, 25, a native of Moradabad in Uttar Pradesh, had killed Manju Rani with a dupatta in a fit of rage after heated arguments, said Phase-11 station house officer (SHO) Jagdeep Singh. The couple had got married two years ago, and since then, he had been harassing and assaulting her, the victim’s brother had told police. “We will produce him in court on Saturday,” said the SHO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/painter-held-for-wife-s-murder-in-mohali-101614365581129.html
27-02-2021||Mumbai||Navi Mumbai: Channel Bandh agitation called off after 7 hours||The JNPT project-affected fishing community, on Friday, conducted a Channel Bandh agitation, blocking ship movement at the country’s largest container port for seven hours. This was in support of their 36-year-long pending issue of resettling the displaced families of erstwhile Sheva village.The agitation was called off in the afternoon following the intervention of Raigad MP Sunil Tatkare, who personally promised to resolve the issue in four-five days.“JNPT deputy chairman, Umesh Wagh, spoke to the agitators and assured that an amicable solution will be found. Wagh promised that a high-level meeting will be held next Thursday,” Dilip Koli of Paaramparik Machhimar Bachao Kruti Samiti said.He added, “The CM and deputy CM had given orders after our previous protests and yet JNPT has not done the needful. In 1986, the government had decided to allot us a 17-acre land for the 256 displaced families and we are asking exactly the same and nothing more.”Parmanand Koli, one of the displaced families from Hanuman Koliwada, said, “On Thursday, Raigad collector, Nidhi Chaudhary, wrote to JNPT asking to allot the land immediately to us and we are still waiting.”The agitation was originally planned on Republic Day but was put off to February 26 with the intervention of the police who promised to have the issue resolved, said Suresh Damodar Koli, head of Hanuman Koliwada Village Reforms Committee.The Sheva families have been relegated to transit camp at Hanuman Koliwada for 14 years. The original plan of 1986 was to allot 17 hectares at Bori Pakhadi at Uran city, which is now a wetland with mangroves growing.Two villages – Nhava and Sheva – were acquired originally for the creation of Nhava Sheva Port Trust, which has been later renamed as JNPT (Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust). By Friday evening JNPT issued a statement which said, “JNPT has paid the entire cost towards compensation for acquiring the land and also the cost of rehabilitation to the Government of Maharashtra for resettlement of the residents of the village Hanuman Koliwada.”JNPT said that it had fulfilled its commitments and that the state government had to take further action in the matter. It has written to the state government on the issue of second rehabilitation of village Hanuman Koliwada.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/navi-mumbai-channel-bandh-agitation-called-off-after-7-hours-101614365402745.html
27-02-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra sees 8,333 new Covid cases; city records 1,035 new infections||Even as Maharashtra and Mumbai witnessed a slight drop in cases on Friday, compared to the past two days, the state is urging citizens to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour to prevent another lockdown, which could hurt the state economy badly. The state logged 8,333 new cases, taking its tally to 2,138,154, while Mumbai’s tally touched 323,879 with 1,035 new cases. The state clocked more than 8,700 cases, while Mumbai saw more than 1,100 cases over the past two days. Pune and Nashik cities saw a slight reduction with 765 and 220 case, respectively, while Amravati and Nagpur cities witnessed a jump in cases and reported 720 and 881 cases. CM Uddhav Thackeray during his meetings earlier this week with local administrations, had made it clear to strictly adhere to Covid-19 protocol to avoid a second lockdown. The municipal corporations and district collectors have restricted crowding at weddings, weekly markets and have started penalizing heavily for not wearing masks at public places. Although the CM announced last Sunday that he would take a review in the next few days to decide on lockdown, the state government is expected to defer the decision for a few more days. “We have been strictly monitoring the situation at district levels to ensure the standard operating procedure (SOP) for the pandemic is implemented rigorously, so that there is no need for a lockdown. The district administrations have been taking action for violations related to crowding and social distancing which are key to arrest the spread. The district administrations have been empowered to impose restrictions at their level. Many of them have imposed local restrictions, results are expected in the next few days,” said Sanjay Kumar, chief secretary. After an upsurge in a few Vidarbha districts like Amravati, Akola, Yavatmal, Washim, the local administration has imposed restrictions. A seven-day lockdown in Amravati city and Achalpur town started Monday evening, while other districts have restricted shop and establishment timings. Marathwada districts, including Parbhani, Hingoli, Nanded, Latur, have imposed a night curfew and restriction on the travellers coming from the affected Vidarbha districts. Schools and colleges in all these districts have been closed for few weeks. “Weddings and market places have been super spreaders in Vidarbha districts. We have restricted the crowding at these places. Tracing of contacts has been increased to 20 persons per infection and testing has been increased multifold. We expect the spread in five Vidarbha districts (Amravati, Akola, Washim, Buldhana, Yavatmal) to be arrested at the earliest,” said Gajendra Bawane, deputy commissioner, Amravati division. In Aurangabad, divisional commissioner, who heads the administration of six districts in Central Maharashtra, has directed to keep their certain beds reserved for Covid-19 patients. The commissioner has also directed industrial units in Waluj and Chihkalthana industrial areas to take due precautions to ensure their employees do not spread the infection. “We have doubled the testing in the past two weeks, while process of ramping up of oxygen stock and number of beds has started. We are starting at least one Covid care centre per tehsil,” said Jagdish Miniyar, deputy commissioner, Aurangabad division. Meanwhile, the state’s positivity rate went up to 9.69% on Friday, from 9.36% a week ago on February 19. However, it has witnessed reduction in the past two days after recording 10.89% on February 24, which was the highest daily rate in the past few weeks. With 48 new deaths, the state’s toll stands at 52,041 and the case fatality rate at 2.43%. The turnout for the vaccination drive improved as Friday recorded inoculation of 58,809 beneficiaries at 826 vaccination centers. At 71.19%, this has been highest ever one day turnout since the drive started on January 16. Of the total 1201096 doses given to health care and frontline workers, 661200 HCWs have taken their first dose while 158681 have taken their second shot.3,81,215 FLWs have taken their first jab. Maharashtra has 10,27,484 HCWs and 8,02,137 FLWs registered for the vaccine doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-sees-8-333-new-covid-cases-city-records-1-035-new-infections-101614365401197.html
27-02-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh records hottest February day since 1954||Maximum temperature in Chandigarh continued to break records for the third consecutive day, going up to 32.7°C on Friday, just 0.1°C lower than the all-time high of 32.8°C for a February day set way back in 1954. Also, it was eight degrees above normal and a notch above that recorded on Thursday. Even minimum temperature went up from 13.1°C to 13.6°C, four degrees above normal. However, according to the weatherman, some relief is likely in the coming days.“With warm winds blowing in the region, temperature had gone up during the day. However, from Saturday, it will fall back into the 20s. A system of western disturbances is expected in the coming week, which is likely to bring relief,” said Surender Paul, director, India Meteorological Department, Chandigarh.In the next three days, maximum temperature will remain between 29 and 31 degrees and minimum temperature will remain between 13 and 15 degrees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-records-hottest-february-day-since-1954-101614365281356.html
27-02-2021||Mumbai||Thane: Restaurants, eateries upset over losses due to strict Covid protocols||Following the recent action by the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC), hotel and other eatery owners are upset as they are incurring losses due to the permitted 50 per cent seating capacity and similar Covid protocols.Moreover, the crowd at streetside food joints and tea stalls continue as no action is being taken. The TMC claims that they are vigilant towards both hotels and roadside eateries and those flouting social distancing rules are either fined or served notice.Raghunath Rai, secretary, Thane Hotels Association, said, “The lockdown has impacted our business a lot. We have faced huge losses. The rentals are also high. Now, we have to follow the 50 per cent seating only rule. Even in that, hardly 40 per cent people visit hotels or opt for take-aways. Many have reduced the number of staff. We are not able to maintain the business as well as it was earlier.”Since the sudden spike in the number of cases recently, TMC has increased its vigilance and sealed a few restaurants and bars this week. “We keep an eye on all food joints and establishments. Everyone has to strictly follow protocols. This week, we have sealed 10 hotels, bars and one wine shop for crowding. People also prefer streetside eateries or food joints. If we find anyone flouting rules, such establishments will also be sealed immediately,” said Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner, TMC.Just like hotel owners who are upset with the losses incurred, small-time eateries and street food joints are also struggling to make ends meet. “As fewer people move out, unlike before, there is hardly any business. Earlier, people used to gather at tea stalls and have small conversations during evening hours over tea. Nowadays, hardly anyone turns up and even if they do, most come alone. This has been affecting business,” said Lakkhan Trivedi, a tea stall owner near Panchpakhadi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/thane-restaurants-eateries-upset-over-losses-due-to-strict-covid-protocols-101614365102700.html
27-02-2021||Chandigarh||Covid spike: All options open for curbs, says Chandigarh admn||The Chandigarh administration will impose fresh restrictions if the number of Covid-19 cases continue to rise in the city.In a review meeting with senior officials on Friday, UT administrator VP Singh Badnore stated that the options of night curfew, closure of markets, sealing of borders and restrictions on the number of attendees at different events will be considered if the pandemic keeps showing an upward trend. As many as 69 people tested positive in the city on Friday, taking the number of active cases to 322. Both the numbers have been on the rise since the beginning of the week. Even the previous week saw nearly 50% rise in fresh cases.The administrator expressed serious concern about the laxity seen among people regarding observance of Covid protocol. He said people have thrown caution to the wind, as if the virus has totally disappeared, and appealed to them to co-operate with the administration and voluntarily follow Covid appropriate behaviour.Badnore also told the health departments to send mobile teams for testing at crowded places, such as apni mandis, bus stand, railway station, Sukhna Lake and the ongoing Rose Festival. He said although he had earlier directed to normalise OPDs at all medical institutions, the heads concerned can take in-house decision regarding the number of patients and other precautions to be taken.Meanwhile, MC commissioner KK Yadav said that presently apni mandis do not pose much risk, necessitating their closure, and precautions have been taken. Next phase of vaccination from March 1The next phase of vaccination is due for the people above 60 years of age and those aged from 45 years to 59 years and having comorbidities, said Arun Kumar Gupta, principal secretary, health, adding that the number of vaccination sites will be increased from the existing 13. The next phase will begin in Chandigarh on March 1. Registration and appointment will be available to citizens through the Co-WIN portal, which is yet to be launched by the Centre. A mobile number will be required to register. The options of vacant slots and vaccination centres will be available to choose from. Details of photo ID card to be used by the beneficiary will also be captured at the time of registration. If the beneficiary’s age is between 45 and 59 years, they will be prompted to confirm if they have any specified comorbidity. In such cases, they will have to carry the comorbidity certificate signed by any registered medical practitioner. There are 20 such illnesses specified by the Centre.In the beginning, slots will be given at PGIMER, GMCH-32 and GMSH-16 besides civil hospitals in Sector 45 and Manimajra, health and wellness centres in Sector 23 and 49, and Police Hospital in Sector 26. Health officials have said that a total of 17 sites with capacity of inoculating 200 people per site will be created in the next week. The target will be to increase the number of government sites by three every week.The UT health authorities have decided to approach 15 private hospitals in the city where vaccination centres can be created. In the next two days, they will inspect them for proper space and related modalities. Those found eligible will be created as vaccination centres.The money will be charged only at private facilities. Besides the cost of the vaccine, which is yet to be announced, the hospital can charge a maximum of ₹100 as service charge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-spike-all-options-open-for-curbs-says-chandigarh-admn-101614364981244.html
27-02-2021||Mumbai||Sanjay Rathod’s future uncertain; BJP may disrupt Maharashtra session||While speculation remains about whether Shiv Sena leader and forest minister Sanjay Rathod will resign before the state legislature’s budget session begins on March 1, the Bharatiya Janata Party [BJP] has threatened to disrupt the session’s proceedings unless Rathod is dropped from the state Cabinet. The Opposition has alleged a suicide case is not being investigated thoroughly because the deceased was involved with Rathod. Sources in Shiv Sena said chief minister Uddhav Thackeray is irked by the links to the suicide case and the show of strength staged by Rathod in Washim earlier this week. Rathod may be asked to step down to minimise damage to the Shiv Sena’s image despite him being an influential leader from the Banjara community, which has a strong presence in parts of Vidarbha. BJP has raised questions about Rathod’s relationship with a 23-year-old woman who died by suicide in Pune on February 8. BJP leader Chitra Wagh said, “The deceased girl’s mobile display showed that there were 45 missed calls from Sanjay Rathod.” Opposition party BJP has already threatened to not allow the budget session of the state Assembly to proceed if Rathod remains in the state Cabinet. “Rathod has to resign or else we will not allow the budget session to function,” said BJP leader Pravin Darekar, who is also the leader of Opposition in the legislative council. The deceased was well known on the social media platform TikTok and did not leave a suicide note. The police have registered a case of accidental death and ruled out foul play. BJP has claimed that a series viral audio clips are of Rathod in conversation with the 23-year-old and alleged the suicide case is not being investigated thoroughly. The parents of the deceased have not filed any complaint with the police so far and have appealed that the 23-year-old not be vilified. “People have to stop vilifying the name of my daughter. I will be forced to either commit suicide or I will lodge police complaints against them,” said her father. Thackeray is said to have been irked by Rathod because Rathod disappeared for 15 days after the suicide. Also, Rathod staged a show of strength at Washim, where thousands of his supporters gathered, violating the Covid-19 restrictions. Additionally, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar is believed to have conveyed to Thackeray that Rathod may be spoiling MVA’s image.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sanjay-rathod-s-future-uncertain-bjp-may-disrupt-maharashtra-session-101614364921234.html
27-02-2021||Kolkata||TMC cries foul on Bengal poll announcement, others are 'happy and prepared'||Most political parties in West Bengal welcomed the announcement of eight-phase election schedule for Assembly polls in the state starting from March 27. The ruling Trinamool Congress, however, gave a bitter reaction and asked the Election Commission why the polls could not be held in fewer phases as in Assam and other states.TMC MP, Saugata Roy, said, “We are not happy. If polls can be held in Tamil Nadu in one phase and Assam in three phases there was no need to hold polls in eight phases in West Bengal. The law and order situation is not that bad. It is the opposition and the BJP in particular which is spreading this propaganda. We don’t understand on what ground the ECI decided to hold polls in so many phases. If elections are held for more than a month then people would face harassment as no work would take place. This is an injustice to Bengal.”Also read: 'Together in fight against pandemic' - PM Modi thanks WHO chief on Covax deliveryBJP state vice president Jay Prakash Narayan welcomes the move. “We are all prepared. In 2016, elections were held in seven phases. Even though there were six phases, the first phase was broken up into two parts. So it is not a big jump. The ECI took into consideration the ground reality of the state, hence two police observers have been deployed. We are expecting a peaceful poll this time.”Leader of the Congress party in the Lok Sabha, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, said, “the law and order situation in West Bengal has touched the rock bottom. We apprehended massive violence in the run-up to the polls and on the election days. We are happy that polls would be held in eight phases. People should be allowed to cast their votes freely without any fear.”CPIM leader Sujan Chakraborty said, “Seven phases or eight isn't a factor. Several other factors come into play. The ECI should take actions so that free and fair elections are held. We just want that people should be able to cast their votes”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/tmc-cries-foul-on-bengal-poll-announcement-others-are-happy-and-prepared-101614364631482.html
27-02-2021||Mumbai||Transfer MSC Bank scam case to CBI: Petition in Bombay HC||A petition has been filed in the Bombay high court (HC) seeking transfer of the investigation into the alleged Maharashtra State Co-operative (MSC) Bank scam from Maharashtra Police’s economic offences wing (EOW) to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). The petition was filed the activist who lodged the complaint in the MSC Bank scam. The petitioner has alleged that the closure report filed by EOW giving a clean chit to the then finance minister Ajit Pawar and 75 directors of the district banks was questionable as it was based on the statement of managing director Ajit Deshmukh, who was also named in the alleged scam. The petitioner claimed that though there was enough evidence and statements of other authorities confirming the scam, Deshmukh had given a statement that the banks had recovered the alleged losses and the offences were of civil nature, based on which the C-summary report (closure report) was filed by EOW last year. EOW had started the probe after receiving directions from the Bombay HC in 2018 while hearing a public interest litigation filed by activist Surinder Arora. The petition, filed by Arora and Manik Jadhav through advocate Satish Talekar, has alleged that the closure report filed by the investigating officer of EOW before the sessions court last year has recorded statements of directors who are accused in the case and incorporated Deshmukh’s statement in verbatim, which clearly show that the cyclostyle statements were prepared with common design and agenda by the investigating agency in collusion with the accused. The petition challenged the closure report and alleged that Deshmukh was not the managing director of MSC Bank at the time when illegal loans were sanctioned or Sahakari Sakhar Karkhana (SSKs) were illegally sold to politicians at throw-away prices. It added that all the documents placed on record by EOW are those referred to by Deshmukh. Referring the lapses in the EOW investigation, the petition states that the serious findings of misappropriation and mismanagement recorded in the NABARD inspection report, Joshi and Nair report, inquiry under section 83 of the Maharashtra Co-operative Societies Act, charge sheet issued under section 88 of the Maharashtra Co-operative Societies Act were given a go-by, holding that the bank managed to recover the losses. The petitioners opposed the C-summary report, wherein EOW had filed an intervention plea in the proceedings, on the grounds that it was a ‘serious economic case and required thorough investigation. Stressing on the need to transfer the probe to CBI, the petition stated, “The petitioners have strong apprehensions that the cause raised by them shall be nipped in the bud due to the political clout of the accused whereas no fair investigation shall be carried out in the matter. Since the accused persons are people in power, there is no likelihood that the investigation shall be at any point of time completed fairly. The conduct of the EOW right from the very beginning in stating that no cognisable offences have been made out till filing of C-summary report itself warrants investigation by an independent agency in order to ensure fair trial of the proceedings.” Due to paucity of time on Friday, the division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice Manish Pitale could not hear the petition. The bench is likely to take it up on Monday, March 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/transfer-msc-bank-scam-case-to-cbi-petition-in-bombay-hc-101614364741369.html
27-02-2021||Other||Mumbai: Man tries to kill self at Virar station, rescued||Railway Protection Force (RPF) officers saved Kishore Kumar Nayak, a 32-year-old from Rourkela, Odisha, who allegedly attempted to kill himself by lying on railway tracks at Virar station on Wednesday evening. Praveen Yadav, senior inspector, RPF, and his staff jumped on the track and managed to pull Nayak out before the local train approached the platform. A video clip incident has gone viral on social media platforms. Nayak, a labourer working for a scrap dealer in Virar (East), lost his mother last week and allegedly decided to end his life, said Yadav. The CCTV footage shows Nayak jumping on the track, spreading a bedsheet and signalling the approaching train to run him over. The RPF team patrolling the area spotted him and pulled him up. “We gave him water and pacified him. Then we took him to our office and counselled him. He told us about the emotional trauma he faced due to his mother’s death,” said a police officer. He was later allowed to leave after he assured the police that he would not make such attempts in future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mumbai-man-tries-to-kill-self-at-virar-station-rescued-101614364500311.html
27-02-2021||Mumbai||Four, including a minor, nabbed for killing transgender in Mumbai||Bangur Nagar police on Friday apprehended three men and a minor boy for allegedly killing a transgender person in Malad two days ago. According to police, after four unsuccessful attempts, the four accused killed their neighbour Suresh Pujari alias Surya.The three arrested accused are Rajesh Yadav, 23; Vinay Yadav, 22; and Dheeraj Vishwakarma, 20. A 16-year-old has also been apprehended. All of them hated Surya as he allegedly used to threaten the four and pick up fights with them over petty reasons.The incident took place at 4.30pm on Wednesday when Surya was in Malad and some men approached and attacked him, said police. Surya attempted to fight back, but one of the assailants took out a knife and slit his throat. Locals gathered after hearing Surya scream for help, following which the accused fled the spot.After the murder, the four fled the city and switched off their mobile phones. Police officers investigating the case received information regarding their whereabouts, based on which the police laid a trap and nabbed them on Friday.“They said they were Surya’s neighbours in Prem Nagar and used to get intimidated by Surya every day. Surya, who was the head of the transgender community in Malad, allegedly used to threaten them and others in the locality,” said an officer from Bangur Nagar station.Vishal Thakur, deputy commissioner of police, zone 12, said they have arrested the three and sent the minor to protective custody at a children’s home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/four-including-a-minor-nabbed-for-killing-transgender-in-mumbai-101614364260945.html
27-02-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Dharavi sees 16 cases, highest in past four months||Asia’s one of the largest slum cluster — Dharavi that was a Covid-19 hotspot in the initial days of the outbreak in Mumbai, has reported 16 cases on Friday, the highest in four months.On October 23 last year, 18 cases were reported in Dharavi, after which, the number reduced. Later, 15 new cases were reported on December 3, 2020.According to BMC officials, the number of cases has increased, as they have ramped up testing.Kiran Dighavkar, assistant municipal commissioner of BMC’s G North Ward, under which Dharavi falls, said, “We are aggressively testing as many people as possible, to curb the spread. There is nothing like a localised outbreak in Dharavi, considering we have increased testing.”According to the BMC data, Dharavi’’s caseload currently stands at 4,066, and so far 3,699 patients have already recovered and got discharged from hospitals. At present, the area has 51 active cases.The first Covid-19 case in Dharavi was reported on April 1 last year, nearly 20 days after the first patient was found in Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-dharavi-sees-16-cases-highest-in-past-four-months-101614364201482.html
27-02-2021||Other||Corporators demand to reopen all 204 public gardens in Pune||Amid the rise in Covid cases Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC’s) garden department is planning to revise the timing of public gardens, but corporators are demanding to reopen more gardens in their wards.At present, PMC has reopened 141 gardens in the city.Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, PMC had closed all its gardens and parks for the public from March 23, 2020. After the restrictions were eased, PMC reopened 33 gardens on June 3, 2020, for two hours each in the morning and evening for walking and jogging only. There were restrictions for people above 65 years of age, pregnant women and children below ten years from entering the gardens and parks. However, as residents were violating Covid norms, PMC decided to close down the gardens after a week.The gardens again reopened on November 1, 2020, in a phase-wise manner. In the first phase, it was 81 and after that, the number was 60. At present, 141 gardens have reopened out of a total of 204 gardens.Haridas Charwad, local corporator, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Vadgaon Dhyari, said, “In our area, there are five gardens and not a single garden has reopened. So, residents are complaining about it and so I requested PMC to reopen them.”Ashok Ghorpade, chief superintendent, PMC garden department, said, “Corporators are demanding to reopen gardens in their respective wards. But, despite repeated instructions, residents are not following rules and currently, Covid cases are on a rise.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/corporators-demand-to-reopen-all-204-public-gardens-in-pune-101614359939486.html
27-02-2021||Other||Ahead of first semester exams, SPPU instructs colleges to prepare question bank for students||As Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) is gearing up to conduct first semester exams it has issued a circular to all its affiliated colleges to prepare a question bank for students.As per the order issued by Mahesh Kakade, SPPU director, board of examination and evaluation, it is stated that, “As per the instructions given by the state government, first to third-year exams of regular and repeater students will be held online. The SPPU’s management council has permitted for conducting the exams online and accordingly, its preparations have started. So colleges should start preparing question bank for students.”“We have instructed colleges to prepare question banks on a priority basis and faculties appointed by SPPU for this work need to be given free time from their college work. Once the question bank is prepared it will be distributed among students,” said Kakade.The overall admission process and examination for the academic year 2020-21 are delayed due to the pandemic. The admission process for some of the graduate and postgraduate courses in SPPU is still underway, while Class 11 admissions concluded last week. This has resulted in the delay of first semester exams, and now due to the strict restrictions imposed by the Pune district collector all the schools and colleges are closed in Pune district till February 28.“Students should be given an option for appearing for exams physically, most of the students are not comfortable with online examination. Last year many students faced technical issues while appearing for online exams,” said Sagar Parkhi, a post-graduate student at SPPU.“We should receive the question bank at least a month before the exams so that we can prepare accordingly,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ahead-of-first-semester-exams-sppu-instructs-colleges-to-prepare-question-bank-for-students-101614357659805.html
27-02-2021||Other||Pune dist records 1,445 new Covid-19 cases, 4 deaths||Pune district recorded 1,445 new Covid-19 cases in 24 hours on Friday, as per the state health department. Four Covid-related deaths were also reported, all from the Pune city area. With these new cases the district’s count went up to 4,06,752, of which 3,86,074 have recovered. The death toll stands at 8,101. A total of 12,577 are active cases undergoing treatment in hospitals or in home isolation. Pune city reported 765 new cases, which took its count to 2,07,736. With four deaths reported on Friday, the death toll went up to 4,573. Pimpri-Chinchwad reported 368 new cases which took its progressive count to 1,01,507. The death toll stands at 1,328. Pune rural reported 312 new cases which took its count to 97,509. No deaths were reported on Friday. The rural death toll stands at 2,151. District reports 65% vaccination success rate On Friday, the district reported a 65% vaccination success rate. However, Pune rural and PCMC reported a 37% and 42% vaccination success rate, respectively. PMC reported a vaccination rate higher than its target, with 116% of healthcare workers (HCWs) and frontline workers (FLWs) getting the jab. Of the 8,900 target beneficiaries, 5,742 beneficiaries got the vaccine, including 4,887 FLWs and 855 HCWs. Also, 2,500 beneficiaries got the second dose of the vaccine. No case of adverse effects post vaccination was reported on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pune-dist-records-1-445-new-covid-19-cases-4-deaths-101614357659099.html
27-02-2021||Other||Pune civic body corrects inflated bills, refunds ₹2.86 cr to Covid patients||After an audit of Covid medical charges Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has refunded ₹2,86,86,926 to patients after scrutinizing 1,040 bills till February 15.As per officials, there are a few private hospitals that have repeatedly overcharged patients availing Covid treatment.PMC started checking Covid bills since there was a spike in cases last year and has continued it to date. The civic body audits inflated bills above ₹1.5 lakh.Dr Ashish Bharati, chief, health department, PMC, said that some private hospitals have given inflated bills to patients. “Some private hospitals have repeatedly overcharged patients for Covid treatment. And after checking the bills, it was found that over ₹2 crore were overcharged from patients,” said Dr Bharati.He added that some private hospitals have overcharged up to Rs7 lakh.“Now that the cases are increasing, we are hoping that more patients approach us if their hospital bills are over ₹1.5 lakh,” said Dr Bharati. He added that several notices have been issued to such hospitals.PMC has evaluated up to ₹16,76,66,879 bills and refunded ₹2,86,86,926 to the patients and ₹13,89,79,953 were retained by hospitals, according to officials.Dr Abhijit More, Jan Aarogya Manch and a city-based health expert, said that the step taken by PMC shows the malpractices of the medical fraternity.“It is evident from the bill collection that fee capping should be done by hospitals to ensure that medical facilities do not drain out the savings of the common man. Also, this practice of bill audit should continue in the future as well as we are experiencing a spike in Covid cases,” he said.”Patients should be made aware so that they can approach PMC,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmc-corrects-inflated-bills-refunds-rs-2-86-cr-to-covid-patients-101614356218913.html
27-02-2021||Other||Pune International Film Festival rescheduled due to Covid; now to be held from March 11-18||The Pune International Film Festival (PIFF) organised by the Pune Film Foundation and the Government of Maharashtra has been rescheduled amid the current Covid situation. Now, the festival will be held from March 11 to 18.PIFF is one of the major attractions for filmlovers and many renowned personalities visit the city during the festival.Jabbar Patel, festival director, said, “Earlier PIFF was scheduled to start from March 4 this year. This year the festival will be organised in theatres and certain part of it would also be made available through an online platform. There is no change in the format, only the dates have been changed.”Patel said, “As per the guidelines set by the state government, it will take place with 50 per cent capacity in each designated theatre. This year the festival will be held at seven screens at venues like PVR on Senapati Bapat road, Inox, Camp and the National Film Archive of India (NFAI) on Law College road.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pune-international-film-festival-rescheduled-due-to-covid-now-to-be-held-from-march-1118-101614354478913.html
27-02-2021||Other||Seniors, persons 45-yrs and above with comorbidities can register on Co-WIN app from March 1||As the third phase of vaccination starts from March 1, beneficiaries will need to register through Co-WIN 2.0 app which will be active from March 1 onward. Also, for beneficiaries who cannot access the application, there will be on-site registration.Along with government hospitals, private healthcare facilities will also be giving jabs to senior citizens and beneficiaries with comorbidities.A compulsory medical certificate from a registered medical practitioner will be needed by those beneficiaries whose age group is between 45 to 59 years and who have comorbidities.Dr Dilip Patil, state immunization officer, said government hospitals will be giving the jabs for free.“Government and hospitals empanelled for health schemes which can be visited by the Central Government Health Scheme (CGHS) patients will be giving the jabs for free. Whereas, the Centre has decided that the private hospitals can charge for the vaccine and other facilities provided by them to the beneficiaries,” said Patil.He said that the Centre has as of now not clarified the cost of the vaccine that private hospitals can charge.“We will start the training of government and private hospital staff. More details of the same will be shared by the Centre soon,” said Patil.“The application can be downloaded through Google just like other apps. For beneficiaries above the age of 60 years, the registration will require any photo ID like an Aadhar card, voter ID card, among others. And for beneficiaries between the age of 45 to 59 with comorbidities, along with photo IDs, they will have to provide a medical certificate required from a registered practitioner in the given format,” said Patil.“The format for the medical certificate will be given by the central government soon. There is a list of 20 comorbidities issued by the central government which will include various diseases and the beneficiaries should have one of them,” said Dr Patil.“After registering, the medical certificate has to be shown at the vaccination site. Taking into account that a few senior citizens cannot register by themselves, there will be on-site registration with required documents,” he said.”Through one phone number, four people can be registered in the third phase of vaccination. So youngsters can help the elderly in getting them registered for the vaccination,” said Patil.“After the registration, slots and timing will be allotted to the citizens at the nearby vaccination centre where they can take the jab,” said Dr Patil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/seniors-persons-45-yrs-and-above-with-comorbidities-can-register-on-co-win-app-from-march-1-101614352738644.html
27-02-2021||Other||Oncologists willing to operate on Covid patients, survey finds||According to a recently published survey from a private hospital in the city, it was found that oncologists were willing to risk their safety to provide surgical care to confirmed Covid patients.The survey published in the Journal of Surgical Oncology, Wiley, collected responses from 15 onco-surgeons from Ruby Hall Clinic. The survey was conducted between March 22, 2020, and June 30, 2020, when the first lockdown was imposed.All the surgeons gave their feedback by maintaining anonymity.The findings revealed that most of the surgeons were willing to operate on confirmed Covid patients, were taking physical consultation every day, and the eagerness to make the rounds of the patients remained almost the same during the said period.Dr Sanjay Deshmukh, surgical oncologist, Ruby Hall Clinic, said, “We wanted to see how surgeons look at providing healthcare services during the pandemic. The questionnaire proved that most of the surgeons were willing to take the risk to treat their patients despite the higher risk to their safety.”“The reason why this kind of survey was done is, there was a lot of criticism initially that doctors are not ready to provide care to the patients. We expected that surgeons will be willing to treat their patients and the survey results proved that we were right. We also wanted to evaluate how doctors face a pandemic,” he said.The hospital was located in Covid containment zones and had many of its staff including nurses residing in the containment zones. However, with proper precautions in place, the hospital was able to conduct necessary oncology surgeries and was also successful in avoiding any major complications.Out of the 118 surgeries performed by the hospital during the said period, minor complications were seen in 18 cases including, 12 Clavien–Dindo grade I or II complications, six grade III complications requiring some form of intervention. There were no grade IV or V complications. A cancer’s grade describes how abnormal the cancer cells look under a microscope when compared to healthy cells.There were eight wound infections, three of which required dressings, three required changing antibiotics, and two required operative debridement of the wound. Also, three patients had postoperative delayed gastric emptying, one of which was due to sepsis and required a change of antibiotics.Two patients were found to be Covid positive before the operation and hence their procedures were postponed. One of them had a chemo port inserted four weeks later while the other patient had an ovarian cytoreduction done five weeks later.Cancer patients have a higher chance of developing Covid infection due to their depressed immune system as seen in China, said the survey.The survey reveals that the majority of the specialist preferred the open surgery approach, delayed non-emergency surgeries, and used palliative strategies for advanced malignancy.The survey also found that majority of the respondents had a decreased income from their surgical practice, and almost half of them said that they would want to change their financial strategies. The survey highlighted that the time spent with family increased significantly and it made the family members quite happy. But almost an equal number of surgeons were unhappy to spend time at home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/oncologists-willing-to-operate-on-covid-patients-survey-finds-101614350698610.html
27-02-2021||Other||NHAI issues tender for new Katraj flyover in Pune||PUNE The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has issued a tender for the new Katraj flyover . The project recently got a nod from Nitin Gadkari, union minister for road and transport.The flyover project is slated to be completed in two years. Once complete, it will supplement the six-lane Katraj-Navale bridge stretch, work for which is currently underway.In August 2019, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) had proposed to build a flyover at Katraj junction to resolve the traffic woes in the area. As the civic body could not take up the work due to a shortage of funds, NHAI decided to fund it. While on a visit to Pune recently, Gadkari had confirmed the work on the flyover at Katraj will begin in a month.“The total length of the flyover is 1,326 metres, while the width is 24.20 metres. The cost of the project will be ₹170 crore and tenders are called for the same which will undergo technical scrutiny,” said Dhananjay Deshpande, executive engineer, National Highway Public Works Department.“This flyover will decongest two junctions, viz Katraj chowk and area near Rajas Society,” he added.The authorities were waiting to get a nod from the central zoo authority for land acquisition as part of the flyover passes over the Rajiv Gandhi Zoological Park and Research Centre. The central zoo authorities have suggested a few changes to the proposal.Rajkumar Jadhav, director, Katraj Zoo, said, “We have given approximately 8,000 square metres of land in the southern periphery of the zoo.”“We have proposed adequate measures to minimise the noise pollution so that the animals are not affected. This can be done by constructing an anti-crash barrier which should be 1.1 or 2.5 metres in height,” he said.Deshpande confirmed that a noise barrier will be installed to protect animals from the vehicular sound.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nhai-invites-bids-for-katraj-flyover-project-101614340739450.html
27-02-2021||World||As Mexico's largest migrant camp empties, new tents spring up along border||Mexican authorities hope most of the asylum seekers living in a major encampment on the border will be allowed to enter the United States by the end of next week, according to a Mexican government source.The migrant camp in Matamoros, Mexico, just across the river from Brownsville, Texas, is currently home to just under 700 migrants, according to the U.N. refugee agency (UNHCR). The majority are asylum seekers who have been waiting in Mexico as their cases wind through U.S. courts under a program implemented by former President Donald Trump.One week ago, President Joe Biden's administration began permitting members of the Migrant Protection Protocols (MPP) program to enter the United States to pursue their court cases.UNHCR spokeswoman Silvia Garduño said 27 people crossed the border from Mexico on Thursday and 100 on Friday, and that the agency hopes to continue this pace in the coming days.The agency, along with the International Organization for Migration, is in charge of the logistics of registering and transporting migrants from the camp to the United States.The Mexican government source, who spoke on condition of anonymity, told Reuters the goal was for 500 migrants in the Matamoros camp to enter the United States by the end of next week.Mexican authorities did not immediately respond to requests for comment. U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) referred Reuters to a Department of Homeland Security (DHS) statement that said the registration process "will be done as quickly as possible."In Matamoros, asylum seekers expressed optimism."We've just received news that tomorrow we're leaving!" said Honduran asylum seeker Josue Cornejo in a video recorded inside the camp on Friday evening, which also shows his wife and daughters wiping away tears.But as one tent city begins to empty in northeastern Mexico, another has sprung up on the other side of the country. In Tijuana, migrants encouraged by the news that some asylum seekers were being allowed to enter the United States have begun to camp out near the El Chaparral port of entry, across the border from San Diego, California. Advocates say about 50 tents have been put up in recent days.Biden, a Democrat, is balancing pressure from immigration advocates to unwind the hardline immigration policies of his predecessor with concerns about rising numbers of migrants arriving at the U.S.-Mexico border in the midst of the coronavirus pandemic. To handle an anticipated rise in crossings, CBP said in a statement on Friday that it planned to open a facility in Eagle Pass, Texas.Plans for the new facility come after CBP announced on Feb. 9 the opening of another temporary facility in Donna, Texas, to handle border processing while the agency's permanent center in McAllen is renovated.Under U.S. law, children who arrive at the border without parents or legal guardians have to be transferred quickly out of border patrol facilities and into government-run shelters overseen by the Department of Health and Human Services.Separately, HHS is also scrambling to cope with the influx of new arrivals by opening emergency shelters and trying to speed releases of migrant kids to sponsors in the United States."There are no good choices here," Biden told reporters on Friday. "The only other options are to send kids back, which is what the prior administration did."Most migrants caught at the border, including families and individual adult asylum seekers, are still being rapidly expelled at the border under a Trump-era health rule in place since last March.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/as-mexico-s-largest-migrant-camp-empties-new-tents-spring-up-along-border-101614449647701.html
27-02-2021||World||Covid-19 crisis leaves tribes without US recognition at higher risk||Rachel Lynne Cushman is used to getting calls from Chinook Nation members worried about losing housing or having their power shut off. Since Covid-19 hit, they come in daily.Cushman is secretary-treasurer for the group of tribes whose rural, ancestral lands are based in one of Washington state's poorest counties. While they mostly have been spared from the health effects of the coronavirus, the pandemic has taken a significant economic toll.“We’re doing the best we can,” Cushman said. “But the reality is we don’t have the resources to help.”Unlike federally recognized tribes, the Chinook Nation doesn't have a political relationship with the United States, which would make it eligible for federal coronavirus relief funding for state, local and tribal governments. Hundreds of tribes lack the designation, which they say leaves them struggling to help their members and less equipped to combat a pandemic that's disproportionately affected Native Americans and other people of color.The 574 federally recognized tribes shared in $8 billion from a massive coronavirus relief package approved last March. They have used the money to provide meals, personal protective equipment, cleaning supplies, Covid-19 testing, business support, housing relief and more. Another bill that passed in December gives those tribes another year to spend the money and includes funding for vaccines, testing and housing assistance for federally recognized tribes.The Chinook Nation — consisting of the Lower Chinook, Clatsop, Willapa, Wahkiakum and Kathlamet tribes — received some federal funding through a local nonprofit for small tribes to distribute food to elders and help with electricity bills, tribal council chairman Tony A. (Naschio) Johnson said. But even paired with grants, he said it's a drop in the bucket.“It’s completely unfair for our neighbors to get millions of dollars, and for us to get some trickle-down, if anything,” Johnson said. “That’s not to say that other tribes shouldn’t be getting funding; we just need funding, too.”The path to federal recognition is long, complicated and expensive, requiring deep anthropological and genealogical research and extensive documentation proving that the tribe is distinct from others and has continuously operated since the 1900s. The process can cost millions of dollars.Five tribes were recognized under the Obama administration and seven tribes under the Trump administration, the latest being the Little Shell Tribe of Chippewa Indians of Montana, according to the Interior Department.Tribes have received the designation through treaties, acts of Congress or by applying to the Interior Department. With it, tribal land is protected from being sold, their governments are recognized as sovereign, and they share in federal funding for things like public safety, education and health.The Chinook Nation's quest for federal recognition started with hiring lawyers to fight for land rights in 1899. The tribe was recognized in 2001, but the status was revoked 18 months later after the U.S. Bureau of Indian Affairs ruled that it failed to prove it had consistently existed as a tribe through history.The revocation was traumatic, said Johnson, who cut his hair in a traditional sign of mourning. He said he sometimes looks back at a letter he wrote to his children about the bright future ahead and wants to scream.They're still battling for the status and got a boost from a U.S. judge who ruled about a year ago that a ban on the tribe reapplying for federal recognition was unjustified.Meanwhile, the Fernandeño Tataviam Band of Mission Indians, a tribe in Los Angeles County without a land base, has raised $2.6 million to build a case. It's among six tribes based in California, Florida, Michigan and New Mexico whose petitions are being considered by the U.S. Bureau of Indian Affairs.Five more tribes in Louisiana, North Carolina and California are seeking federal recognition but haven't completed their paperwork yet.The Los Angeles-area tribe's 900 members are facing job losses and food insecurity, tribal President Rudy Ortega said.The problems are not unlike what federally recognized tribes and others are facing in the pandemic, he said, but his tribe has additional roadblocks to financial help. Grant funding has helped, but applying for the money has become more arduous after 10 tribal government employees were laid off, Ortega said.“We do the best with what we have, but we wish we had more because we can’t fulfill everyone’s needs on our own,” he said.The tribe is recognized by California, but that doesn't guarantee government funding. While it can open access to state funding, state recognition is mostly seen as a stepping stone to federal recognition.In the meantime, the tribe's leaders are asking members for help delivering food and donating money for emergency rental assistance, Covid-19 testing and protective equipment. Other than that, much of the tribe's funding comes from grants and an online store.Likewise, efforts within the Chinook Nation to combat the pandemic haven't gone far enough, tribal leaders say. While they have taken strict Covid-19 precautions, including canceling big events and encouraging people to socially distance, there was little to prepare the tribe for the economic effects.Tribal leaders expanded a distribution system for those most in need and invested in a traditional foods program. They distributed two to five fish per household each week last summer, and processed elk and bear that volunteers offered for tribal refrigerators.But Johnson, the tribal chairman, said what they need most is federal status and funding, which members have been fighting for through letter-writing efforts and social media campaigns.“With federal recognition, that’s how we’re going to change the future of our community,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-crisis-leaves-tribes-without-us-recognition-at-higher-risk-101614447742748.html
27-02-2021||World||Global growth to be hit if IP norms not waived to deal with Covid-19: India||India on Saturday said if members of the WTO would fail to deliver on a proposal on waiving certain intellectual property obligations to deal with Covid-19 pandemic, it would impact global growth and livelihood. In October 2020, India and South Africa submitted a proposal suggesting a waiver for all WTO (World Trade Organization) members on the implementation, application and enforcement of certain provisions of the TRIPS Agreement in relation to the prevention, containment or treatment of Covid-19. The agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights or TRIPS came into effect in January 1995. It is a multilateral agreement on intellectual property (IP) rights such as copyright, industrial designs, patents and protection of undisclosed information or trade secrets. "If we fail in the next one or two quarters or not delivering on that, let me tell you that it is not the question of equity, we are coming in the way of global growth and livelihood. It is not that we are coming in the way of life. "It is a very simple economics that for a commercial interest of let us say USD 30 to USD 40 billion of annual vaccine output of few companies, we are coming in the way of USD 6-7 trillion of global GDP output in one year," Indian Ambassador and Permanent Representative to the WTO, Brajendra Navnit, said at the Asia Economic Dialogue. Developed and rich nations are opposing the proposal. Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal had recently stated that on one hand, the developed countries talk about supporting each other and multilateral fight against Covid-19 pandemic, but on the other hand, they are looking at protecting the interests of a few companies. The minister has added that the world is fighting the pandemic which could potentially cost USD 9 trillion to the world economy. Further, Navnit said that it does not make any sense that on one side countries are providing USD 1 trillion or USD 1.5 trillion worth of fiscal stimulus, but on the other hand they are not willing to compensate for design a remuneration for IP rights' holder and expand the manufacturing by just putting USD 30-40 billion in bucket. Speaking at the event, Xolelwa Mlumbi-peter, Ambassador and Permanent Representative of South Africa to the WTO, said that IP should not become a barrier to access affordable medicines. Suggesting for holding frequent meetings of political leadership at WTO, the Ambassador said: "I strongly feel that diplomats and bureaucrats have taken over the system and they want to keep the political leadership slightly away". He added that the general council of the WTO has totally taken over the mandate of MC (ministerial conference), which is the highest decision making body of the WTO. He added that members can go ahead and start having more frequent interactions with political leadership "because most of the calls have to be taken by them and it can not be settled by diplomats sitting in Geneva". Geneva-based WTO deals with global trade and adjudicates trade disputes among member countries. Further, he added that the members should moderate their expectations from the 12th MC, expected later this year. On special and differential treatment, João Aguiar Machado, Ambassador and Permanent Representative of EU to WTO, said that there is need to have a frank and open debate on the issue. "We cannot pretend that developing countries want to be integrated into the multilateral trading system while at the same time sitting at the margins of that system," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/global-growth-to-be-hit-if-ip-norms-not-waived-to-deal-with-covid-19-india-101614445725854.html
27-02-2021||World||Mars facts: What do we know about the Red planet so far? How does it compare with Earth?||Several countries, including India and the United States, are continuously working on their Mars mission to explore habitability and seek signs of life on the Red planet. Earlier this month, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration safely landed its Perseverance rover in the Jezero Crater, determined as an ancient lakebed that formed billions of years ago.According to Nasa’s Mars exploration program, the crater was filled with water to form a deep lake, which dried up as the climate of the planet changed. Perseverance rover will be used to explore the rocks of the ancient lake bed and return samples through future missions. While it’s too cold and dry for life to exist today on the Martian surface, humans want to learn whether life ever existed on the Red planet.How does Mars compare with Earth?The atmosphere of Earth primarily consists of nitrogen and oxygen while the Martian atmosphere has mostly carbon dioxide. Earth has only one moon, the natural satellite revolving around the planet, while Mars has two moons - Phobos and Deimos - which are extremely small in size as compared to that of Earth’s.It would take more than six identical Mars to fill the volume of Earth, which also impacts the gravitational force observed in the Martian atmosphere. If a person weighs 100 kilograms on Earth, the individual would weigh around 38 kilograms on Mars, given the gravitational force on the Red planet is 0.375 times of Earth.While the scientists are still exploring the exact structure of Mars, the core of the Red planet may be similar to Earth’s, according to Nasa. Martian atmosphere is 99 per cent less dense than Earth's and the average temperature is -81 degrees Fahrenheit, extremely low when compared to Earth's.Read | High-definition, zoomable view of Mars captured by Nasa's Perseverance roverHere are some of the other parameters:Average speed in orbiting SunEarth - 93 million milesMars - 142 million milesDiameterEarth - 7,926 milesMars - 4,220 milesLength of YearEarth - 365.25 daysMars - 687 Earth daysLength of DayEarth - 23 hours 56 minutesMars - 24 hours 37 minutesTilt of AxisEarth - 23.5 degreesMars - 25 degrees||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/mars-facts-what-do-we-know-about-red-planet-how-does-it-compare-with-earth-101614445259770.html
27-02-2021||World||FDA set to approve J&J’s single-dose Covid vaccine, the third for US||The US drugs regulator is set to grant emergency use authorisation to Johnson & Johnson’s Covid-19 vaccine as public health officials warned of a “very concerning” upward shift in new infections and deaths and said “now is not the time to relax restrictions”.After a “positive” outcome of a meeting of an advisory committee of independent experts on the Johnson & Johnson’s vaccine on Friday, the US Food and Drug Administration said it had told the company it will “rapidly work toward finalisation and issuance of an emergency use authorisation.”The authorisation, expected over the weekend, will add a third vaccine to the US fight against the Covid-19 epidemic, which has killed more than 510,000 Americans and infected nearly 28.5 million, according to the Johns Hopkins University tracker. The US is by far the worst hit by the pandemic.Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna’s are the other two vaccines, which have been in use since December. But they are both two-dose vaccines, requiring primer and booster shots. Johnson & Johnson’s, on the other hand, is a single-dose vaccine, and is easier to store and transport.According to papers submitted by Johnson & Johnson earlier this month for emergency use authorisation, its vaccine has demonstrated an efficacy level of 66% overall; 72% in the United States and 57% in South Africa, which is dealing with a highly contagious strain of the virus. It has been more effective — 86% — against severe forms of Covid-19 in the US, and 82% against severe disease in South Africa, reducing the risk of hospitalisation and death.The third vaccine comes amid warnings by public health officials of an upward shift in the pandemic. After consistent decline in infections and cases since early January, “the latest data suggests that these declines may be stalling, potentially levelling off at, still, a very high number”, said Rochelle Walensky, director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), at a White House briefing on Covid-19 on Friday.“We at CDC consider this a very concerning shift in the trajectory. The most recent seven-day average of cases -- approximately 66,350 -- is higher than the average I shared with you on Wednesday. In fact, cases have been increasing for the past three days compared to the prior week,” she said, adding, “Now is not the time to relax restrictions.”Walensky also said the impact of the new variants of the virus are beginning to be seen now. And she warned: “We may be done with the virus, but clearly, the virus is not done with us. We cannot get comfortable or give in to a false sense of security that the worst of the pandemic is behind us -- not now; not when mass vaccination is so very close -- when what we need to prevent this is truly imminent.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/fda-set-to-approve-j-j-s-single-dose-covid-vaccine-the-third-for-us-101614441729737.html
27-02-2021||World||Barbed wire, concrete barriers: Growing tension in Minneapolis as trial looms in Floyd death||Barbed wire and concrete barriers surround the courthouse where the former Minneapolis police officer charged with killing George Floyd will soon go on trial, a sign of the deep uneasiness hanging over a city literally set ablaze almost a year ago in the anger over his death.Mayor Jacob Frey and Gov. Tim Walz, both Democrats, were sharply criticized for failing to move faster to stop last summer's looting and destruction, which included the torching of a police station. Anything less than a murder conviction for Derek Chauvin is likely to test them — and the city — once again.Jury selection begins March 8 with opening statements March 29. Floyd, who was Black, died May 25 after Chauvin, who was white, pressed his knee on Floyd’s neck while he was handcuffed and pleading that he couldn’t breathe. Chauvin faces second-degree murder and manslaughter charges; three other fired officers go on trial in August.Thousands of people took to the streets of Minneapolis after Floyd's death. Many demonstrated peacefully. But for several nights, the unrest spiraled into violence, with stores looted and set ablaze along the Lake Street commercial artery that included the 3rd Precinct police station, which was home to the officers who arrested Floyd. The station itself was eventually abandoned by police and burned by rioters. Some nervous neighborhoods formed watch groups, setting up checkpoints and sometimes armed patrols. The violence finally subsided after National Guard troops arrived in sufficient numbers.As the city moves to make the courthouse virtually impenetrable, some people worry about what might happen elsewhere if Chauvin is acquitted.Elias Usso's pharmacy on Lake Street had been open less than a year when it was destroyed by fire and water. He blames Chauvin personally for what he considers “the murder of an innocent man” as well as the destruction that followed — estimated at more than $350 million in Minneapolis alone.“One police officer did that,” Usso said. “Something has to change.”His Seward Pharmacy has reopened with help from donors. In between vaccinating customers against Covid-19, Usso — an Ethiopian immigrant and a Black man — talked of still feeling the emotional turmoil over Floyd's death and the unrest, and his concerns about the trial.“I don’t know what’s going to happen to my business. We’re waiting to see," Usso said. "But I will continue to give service to our neighbors and delivering prescriptions to grandma and grandpa. If something happens, we’re going to continue."Frey said more than 3,000 law enforcement officers from across the state and Minnesota National Guard soldiers will be at the ready when the case goes to the jury, expected in late April or early May.Frey last week declared that Minneapolis remains “open for business,” and said people should go about their lives as usual.But the security going up around the Hennepin County courthouse, City Hall and the jail — all in the heart of downtown — is extraordinary. It includes three rings of concrete barriers, two topped by chain-link fencing with a trough in between filled with coils of razor wire. The innermost fence is topped with barbed wire, and ground-floor windows at all three buildings are boarded up.Protest leaders are on edge, too. They accuse authorities of creating a police state downtown that could trample their freedoms of speech and assembly.“It's not going to dissuade us from protesting. We're determined to let our voices be heard," said Linden Gawboy, an activist with the Twin Cities Coalition 4 Justice 4 Jamar, which formed after the police killing of Jamar Clark in Minneapolis in 2015.It's not just the courthouse that's barricaded. The state Capitol in St. Paul has been ringed with temporary fencing ever since last summer's unrest. Inside, lawmakers have squabbled for weeks over providing extra state money for security during the trials, though Walz and other officials say they'll manage one way or another.“There’s going to be very high emotion on all sides of this, and we’ll be prepared,” Walz said.Julie Ingebretsen, owner of a Scandinavian food and gift market on Lake Street that was founded by her Norwegian grandfather, said she's not boarding up, though she expects some will in the miles-long commercial corridor that includes many immigrant- and minority-run businesses. Some have never taken down the plywood that they put up last summer.While Ingebretsen's Nordic Marketplace was looted and vandalized, she said she was fortunate that her store wasn't burned. She said she feels “cautiously optimistic” now because of personal outreach efforts by Police Chief Medaria Arradondo and other city officials, and their assurances that plenty of police and Guard members will be standing by.“We're celebrating our 100th anniversary this year, so we have every intention of celebrating another 100, and not going anywhere," Ingebretsen said. “We are totally committed to keeping moving forward.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/growing-tension-in-minneapolis-as-trial-looms-in-george-floyd-s-death-101614439596545.html
27-02-2021||World||Undocumented immigrants should be vaccinated without ICE fear: Biden||US President Joe Biden on Friday (local time) ensured that undocumented immigrants will be able to receive the Covid-19 vaccine without fear of being targeted by US Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE)."I want to make sure they are able to get vaccinated and so they are protected from Covid without the ICE or anyone interfering," The Hill quoted Biden as saying during an interview with Univision."They should... not be arrested for showing for being able to get a vaccination," Biden added.The President also plans to make sure undocumented immigrants have food as his $1.9 trillion coronavirus relief proposal increases funding for nutrition assistance.The comments follow an announcement from the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) earlier this month that said the ICE was not conducting enforcement activities at or near Covid-19 vaccination sites, The Hill reported."It is a moral and public health imperative to ensure that all individuals residing in the United States have access to the vaccine," the agency had said in a statement."DHS is committed to ensuring that every individual who needs a vaccine can get one, regardless of their immigration status," the agency had added.However, the US House of Representatives has approved Biden's $1.9 trillion coronavirus aid package by a majority of votes.The bill now requires approval in the Senate and the signature of Biden before it can enter into force.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/undocumented-immigrants-should-be-vaccinated-without-ice-fear-biden-101614438054690.html
27-02-2021||World||Sunak plots tax raid to plug UK deficit, risking Tory rage||Rishi Sunak can do self-restraint. After an addiction to drinking full-strength Coca-Cola resulted in seven fillings to his teeth, he rationed himself to a single Coke a week.When he comes to deliver his budget on Wednesday, the chancellor of the exchequer faces a battle to persuade his colleagues of the need to turn down the flow of government spending, and to address the painful hole in the public finances, approaching 400 billion pounds ($558 billion).The question he’s still grappling with is how to pay the bill. Will he raise taxes, hitting the wealthy and clawing back profits from the few businesses that made them, as some suggest? Or will he prepare the ground for cuts to public spending? Or will he instead signal that the pain of cuts and taxes will have to come, but just not yet?Sunak’s answers will shape his own fortunes, the Conservative government’s political identity, and the U.K. economy’s chances of making a full recovery from its deepest recession for 300 years.“We went big, we went early, but there is more to come and there will be more to come in the budget. But there is a challenge,” with public finances and “I want to level with people about the challenge,” Sunak told the Financial Times in an interview Friday. In common with finance ministers around the world, Sunak poured out vast sums of taxpayers’ cash to save jobs and businesses when coronavirus forced the government to shut shops and restaurants and confine people to their homes.Now that Prime Minister Boris Johnson has laid out his “road map” for a cautious four-month lifting of the lockdown, Sunak is reconciled to keeping that flow of support going for as long as the restrictions are in place.That will mean extending the 54 billion-pound furlough wage support program, along with cuts to business rates and sales tax at least until the end of June. This won’t be a surprise to Sunak’s colleagues and will please many, but not all, Conservative members of Parliament on Wednesday.But it runs against the grain of his instincts as a small-state Conservative, and many of his colleagues are also deeply uneasy about the economic policy their Tory government finds itself pursuing. The prospect of hiking taxes – including potentially a sharp rise in business levies – to pay the bill is particularly hard for most Tories to swallow.In recent weeks, the chancellor has been working assiduously to canvass his colleagues’ views in an effort to understand what he’s up against and tailor his messages to match. Some MPs report being invited to four or five Zoom calls with Sunak in the run-up to his budget.“Rishi was very open, very listening, really cared about what we were saying,” said Alexander Stafford, one of the new Tory MPs elected in December 2019. “We all know there are going to be cuts or tax rises. My hope is none of that falls too hard at the moment. We’re not out of the woods yet.”Others put it more bluntly. “If he were to raise taxes, it would undermine everything we’ve done to get businesses to this stage,” said Andrew Bridgen. “No society can ever tax its way to prosperity.”Among the details emerging on the plan, Sunak will pledge 22 billion pounds for a previously proposed infrastructure bank to boost the country's green economy, the Telegraph reported Saturday. The bank will offer a range of products, including equity, loans and guarantees, to support projects in sectors such as renewable energy, carbon capture and storage and transportation, the paper said. He's also expected to announce the launch of a fund that would channel up to 375 million pounds into fast-growing tech start-ups, the Financial Times reported.What Else Will Be in Sunak’s Budget?Steve Baker, a Tory who sits on the Treasury committee and will interrogate Sunak on his choices, said the government’s priority must be to create better-paid jobs for people in the months ahead. “I just don’t see how raising taxes promotes more, better, higher paying jobs for the public,” he said.The pandemic has fundamentally challenged the Tory party’s sense of what it stands for. In the past, Conservatives have flirted with privatizing state healthcare, cut welfare payments, and slashed taxes for high earners.Yet Johnson’s team now paints itself as the champions of the National Health Service while pumping up social security and weighing options to raise levies on capital gains.The influx of more than 100 new Conservative Members of Parliament in 2019, many of them representing northern seats prised from the left-wing Labour Party for the first time in decades, has changed the makeup of the party in Westminster.There’s less clamor for fiscal prudence than in years gone by, and there’s certainly no appetite for the return of the austerity policies pursued over much of the last decade by Tory-led administrations.Historically low interest rates mean there also isn’t pressure from the bond markets on the chancellor to rein in his spending immediately. While the country’s debt has ballooned during the crisis, the cost of servicing it has actually fallen.Yet Sunak sees big risks in doing nothing to address the U.K.’s pandemic-ravaged public finances. Even if he delays most of the difficult decisions until the next budget in the fall, or even next year, many of his colleagues expect he won’t be able to put off the pain any further.Bond markets are signaling that Sunak’s borrowing costs may only get higher. Interest rates on gilts in financial markets have risen a half percentage point in the past month for securities maturing in six years and beyond. The yield on the Treasury’s benchmark 10-year gilt reached 0.836% on Friday, the highest since March 2020 when the pandemic began spreading widely in Europe. Every 1 percentage-point increase in interest rates adds 25 billion pounds to the U.K.’s cost of servicing its debt, Sunak told the FT.“We all know that the markets can turn very, very quickly,” Harriet Baldwin, a Conservative who traded bonds during a market rout in 1994. “Although the situation is very favorable at the moment, it’s not necessarily always going to be the case. He’s got a tricky tightrope to walk.”Observers praise Sunak for his work ethic and attention to detail, and the chancellor himself has said he likes to start his day with a workout, either on a treadmill, in the gym, or on a stationary bicycle, before getting to his desk at 7:45 a.m.The truth is, no amount of sweat or preparation can guarantee Sunak’s policies will succeed. The biggest factor in determining whether Britain’s economy is permanently scarred or recovers quickly lies beyond the chancellor’s control: the pandemic itself.If, despite a fast and apparently effective vaccination program, Johnson’s government cannot keep a grip on coronavirus, the U.K.’s plan to reopen the economy on a cautious timetable of dates over the next four months will be at risk. So too will party unity.“All hell will break loose if the dates are challenged or they slip back,” said Indiana-born Joy Morrissey, who was elected under Johnson’s leadership in 2019. “These dates are the last possible dates everyone is going to accept.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/sunak-plots-tax-raid-to-plug-uk-deficit-risking-tory-rage-101614437696977.html
27-02-2021||World||Myanmar ambassador to UN fired after he urged to reverse military coup: Report||Myanmar's UN Ambassador Kyaw Moe Tun has been fired, state television said on Saturday, a day after he urged the United Nations to use "any means necessary" to reverse the Feb. 1 military coup.Kyaw Moe Tun had told the UN General Assembly he was speaking on behalf of the ousted civilian government of elected leader Aung San Suu Kyi.State television, MRTV, said he had "betrayed the country and spoken for an unofficial organization which doesn't represent the country and had abused the power and responsibilities of an ambassador".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/myanmar-ambassador-to-un-fired-after-he-urged-to-reverse-military-coup-report-101614437172849.html
27-02-2021||World||Sri Lanka's end to forced cremations of Covid-19 dead on hold: official||Sri Lanka's decision to end forced cremations and allow the burial of those who succumbed to Covid-19 will take some time to be implemented as the necessary guidelines have not been issued so far, a top health official said on Saturday.Amidst mounting international criticism, Sri Lanka has revised a controversial mandatory order to cremate the bodies of Covid-19 victims, which denied minority communities, including Muslims, their religious rights.The government on Thursday revised a gazette notification issued in April last year. The new notification allowed both burials and cremations.For 10 months, the Muslim and Christian minorities in the country and international rights groups lobbied the government to end the policy of forced cremations."This will take some time as guidelines on many aspects need to be determined and issued," said the top health official Asela Gunawardena.The Sri Lankan government was resisting calls to allow burials citing health concerns. It cited the opinion of some experts who claimed that the burial of Covid-19 victims would contaminate the water table, thereby spreading the pandemic further.The country had earlier come under intense criticism from rights groups, including the UNHRC, over the cremation order.They said it failed to respect the religious feelings of the victims and their family members, especially of the Muslims, Catholics and some Buddhists.The cremation of bodies is forbidden in Islam.The decision to end forced cremations followed the visit of Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan.The Muslim minority leaders, who met Khan, said the decision to allow burials was linked to Sri Lanka seeking the support of the Organisation of Islamic Countries (OIC) at the ongoing UN Human Rights Council session in Geneva.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/sri-lanka-s-end-to-forced-cremations-of-covid-19-dead-on-hold-official-101614436567513.html
27-02-2021||World||Bangladeshi writer, detained over anti-govt social media posts, dies in jail||Bangladeshi writer Mushtaq Ahmed who was detained last year over social media posts that were critical of the country's government has died in jail, officials and family members said on Friday.According to The New York Times (NYT), Ahmed's death inside prison is raising alarms about the country's crackdown on dissent. He was among 11 people who were charged for spreading social media content, including cartoons, that alleged mismanagement and corruption in Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina's response to the pandemic last year.They were charged for "posting rumors against the Father of the Nation, the war of independence."His case was brought under Bangladesh's Digital Security Act, a 2018 law that gives the Bangladeshi government wide-ranging powers to search, fine and arrest anyone who violates its vague tenets, including violating "the solidarity, financial activities, security, defense, religious values or public discipline of the country."The Asian Human Rights Commission said it had documented the arrest of 138 people last year -- journalists, students and political activists -- for criticizing Hasina's government.NYT further reported that the writer was held in the high-security Kashimpur prison and was denied bail six times. Rights organizations demanded an investigation into his death and called for the repeal of the Digital Security Act, which also includes measures to protect against cybercrimes and attacks.Mohammad Gias Uddin, the senior superintendent of the jail where Ahmed was held, said the writer had lost consciousness on Thursday evening and was taken to the prison hospital. He was pronounced dead on arrival when prison guards later took him to a larger medical facility in the nearby city Gazipur.Doctors at the prison reported that Ahmed "never complained about his health issues," Uddin told NYT that Ahmed "used to take pills for gastric and headache."Nafeesur Rahman, Ahmed's cousin and also a physician, said he had been present during the autopsy. "I have not found any injury mark anywhere on his body," adding that he found his cousin's heart to be enlarged and that his blood pressure was very low when he lost consciousness.In one of his posts on Facebook before his arrest last May, Ahmed compared the country's health minister to a cockroach. In another, he wrote, "When a society laments the loss of an economy more than the loss of human life, it doesn't need a virus, it's already sick."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/bangladeshi-writer-detained-over-anti-govt-social-media-posts-dies-in-jail-101614436962963.html
27-02-2021||World||Internet disruption reported in southeast Iran amid unrest||Iran’s impoverished southeast experienced wide disruptions of internet service over the past week, internet experts said Saturday, as unrest gripped the remote province after a string of fatal border shootings.Several rights groups reported in a joint statement that authorities shut down the mobile data network in the restive provinces of Sistan and Baluchistan, calling the disruptions an apparent “tool to conceal” the government’s harsh crackdown on protests convulsing the area.The reports of internet interference come as Iranian authorities and semi-official news agencies increasingly acknowledge the turmoil challenging local authorities in the southeast — a highly sensitive matter in a country that seeks to repress all hints of political dissent.For three days starting Wednesday, the government shut down the mobile data network across Sistan and Baluchistan, where 96 percent of the population accesses the internet only through their phones, rights groups said, crippling the key communication tool. Residents reported a restoration of internet access early Saturday.“This is Iran’s traditional response to any kind of protest,” Amir Rashidi from Miaan Group, a human rights organization that focuses on digital security in the Middle East, told The Associated Press on Saturday. “Shutting down the internet to block news and pictures getting out makes (authorities) feel more comfortable opening fire.”The week saw a series of escalating confrontations between police and protesters. Crowds with light arms and grenade launchers descended on Kurin checkpoint near Iran’s border with Pakistan on Thursday, Abouzar Mehdi Nakhaie, the governor of Zahedan, the provincial capital, said in comments carried by Iran’s semi-official ISNA news agency. One policeman was killed, he added.Earlier this week, protesters attacked the district governor’s office and stormed two police stations in the city of Saravan, outraged over the shootings of fuel smugglers trying to cross back into Iran from Pakistan on Monday. The government said at least two people were killed in the border shootings and ensuing clashes. Many rights activists in the area reported higher death tolls without offering evidence.Iran’s Foreign Ministry spokesman, Saeed Khatibzadeh, vowed Friday to investigate the deaths. Officials insisted that calm had returned to the streets.The Iranian government previously has cut off internet access and cellphone service in tense times. In the fall of 2019, for instance, Iran imposed a near nationwide internet blackout as anti-government protests sparked by an increase in fuel prices roiled the capital of Tehran and other cities. Hundreds were reportedly killed in the crackdown nationwide.NetBlocks, which monitors worldwide internet access, called the reports of disruption “credible,” but couldn’t provide verification.Given that authorities targeted the mobile network and not the landline, the disruption likely wouldn’t appear on regular network data, said Mahsa Alimardani, researcher at Article 19, an international organization that fights censorship. The area already suffered from unreliable internet connections."This targeted shutdown was very intentional because they knew the realities of this province,” where people are poor and buy cheap phones as opposed to computers, Alimardani said.Sistan and Baluchistan Province is one of most unstable and least developed parts of Iran. The relationship between its predominantly Sunni residents and Iran’s Shiite theocracy long has been fraught. The Baluchis of Iran make up the ranks of a low-level violent insurgency involving several militant groups, including those demanding more autonomy for the region.The area also lies on a major trafficking route for drugs and petrol, which is highly subsidized in Iran and a key source of income for smugglers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/internet-disruption-reported-in-southeast-iran-amid-unrest-101614432260833.html
27-02-2021||World||Plunging Covid-19 test demand may leave US with supply glut||Just five weeks ago, Los Angeles County was conducting more than 350,000 weekly coronavirus tests, including at a massive drive-thru site at Dodger Stadium, as health workers raced to contain the worst Covid-19 hotspot in the U.S.Now, county officials say testing has nearly collapsed. More than 180 government-supported sites are operating at only a third of their capacity.“It’s shocking how quickly we’ve gone from moving at 100 miles an hour to about 25,” said Dr. Clemens Hong, who leads the county’s testing operation.After a year of struggling to boost testing, communities across the country are seeing plummeting demand, shuttering testing sites or even trying to return supplies.The drop in screening comes at a significant moment in the outbreak: Experts are cautiously optimistic that Covid-19 is receding after killing more than 500,000 people in the U.S. but concerned that emerging variants could prolong the epidemic.“Everyone is hopeful for rapid, widespread vaccinations, but I don’t think we’re at a point where we can drop our guard just yet,” said Hong. “We just don’t have enough people who are immune to rule out another surge.”U.S. testing hit a peak on Jan. 15, when the country was averaging more than 2 million tests per day. Since then, the average number of daily tests has fallen more than 28%. The drop mirrors declines across all major virus measures since January, including new cases, hospitalizations and deaths.Officials say those encouraging trends, together with harsh winter weather, the end of the holiday travel season, pandemic fatigue and a growing focus on vaccinations are sapping interest in testing.“When you combine all those together you see this decrease,” said Dr. Richard Pescatore of the health department in Delaware, where daily testing has fallen more than 40% since the January peak. “People just aren’t going to go out to testing sites.”But testing remains important for tracking and containing the outbreak.L.A. County is opening more testing options near public transportation, schools and offices to make it more convenient. And officials in Santa Clara County are urging residents to “continue getting tested regularly,” highlighting new mobile testing buses and pop-up sites.President Joe Biden has promised to revamp the nation’s testing system by investing billions more in supplies and government coordination. But with demand falling fast, the country may soon have a glut of unused supplies. The U.S. will be able to conduct nearly 1 billion monthly tests by June, according to projections from researchers at Arizona State University. That’s more than 25 times the country’s current rate of about 40 million tests reported per month.With more than 150 million new vaccine doses due for delivery by late March, testing is likely to fall further as local governments shift staff and resources to giving shots.“You have to pick your battles here,” said Dr. Jeffrey Engel of the Council of State and Territorial Epidemiologists. “Everyone would agree that if you have one public health nurse, you’re going to use that person for vaccination, not testing.”Some experts say the country must double down on testing to avoid flare-ups from coronavirus variants that have taken hold in the U.K., South Africa and other places.“We need to use testing to continue the downward trend,” said Dr. Jonathan Quick of the Rockefeller Foundation, which has been advising Biden officials. “We need to have it there to catch surges from the variants.”Last week, Minnesota began urging families to get tested every two weeks through the end of the school year as more students return to the classroom.“To protect this progress, we need to use all the tools at our disposal,” said Dan Huff, an assistant state health commissioner.But some of the most vocal testing proponents are less worried about the declines in screening. From a public health viewpoint, testing is effective if it helps to quickly find the infected, trace their contacts and isolate them to stop the spread. In most parts of the U.S., that never happened.Over the holiday season, many Americans still had to wait days to receive test results, rendering them largely useless. That’s led to testing fatigue and dwindling interest, said Dr. Michael Mina of Harvard University.“It doesn’t exactly give you a lot of gratifying, immediate feedback,” Mina said. “So people's willingness or interest in getting tested starts to go down.”Still, U.S. test manufacturers continue ramping up production, with another 110 million rapid and home-based tests expected to hit the market next month.Government officials long assumed this growing arsenal of cheap, 15-minute tests would be used to regularly screen millions of students and teachers as in-person classes resume. But recent guidelines from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention don't emphasize testing, describing it as an “additional layer” of protection, behind basic measures like masking and social distancing.Even without strong federal backing, educational leaders say testing programs will be important for marshaling public confidence needed to fully reopen schools, including in the fall when cases are expected to rise again.“Schools have asked themselves, justifiably, ‘Is the juice worth the squeeze to set up a big testing effort?’” said Mike Magee, CEO of Chiefs for Change, a nonprofit that advises districts in more than 25 states. “Our message to the school systems we work with is: ‘Yes, you need to stand up comprehensive testing because you’re going to need it.’"||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/plunging-covid-19-test-demand-may-leave-us-with-supply-glut-101614435516972.html
27-02-2021||World||Russian scientists say Sputnik V performs well against Covid mutations||A Russian trial testing the effectiveness of revaccination with the Sputnik V shot to protect against new mutations of the coronavirus is producing strong results, researchers said on Saturday.Last month President Vladimir Putin ordered a review by March 15 of Russian-produced vaccines for their effectiveness against new variants spreading in different parts of the world."(A) recent study carried out by the Gamaleya Centre in Russia showed that revaccination with Sputnik V vaccine is working very well against new coronavirus mutations, including the UK and South African strains of coronavirus," said Denis Logunov, a deputy director of the centre, which developed the Sputnik V shot.Results of the trial are expected to be published soon, but this was the first indication of how the tests are going. No further details were available yet.So-called viral vector shots - such as Sputnik V and a shot developed by AstraZeneca - use harmless modified viruses as vehicles, or vectors, to carry genetic information that helps the body build immunity against future infections.The revaccination used the same Sputnik V shot, based upon the same adenovirus vectors. The trial indicated this did not impact effectiveness, Logunov said in a statement to Reuters.Some scientists have raised the possible risk that the body also develops immunity to the vector itself, recognising it as an intruder and trying to destroy it.But developers of Sputnik V disagreed this would pose long-term problems."We believe that vector-based vaccines are actually better for future revaccinations than vaccines based on other platforms," Logunov said.He said that the researchers found that antibodies specific to the vectors used by the shot - which could generate an anti-vector reaction and undermine the work of the shot itself - waned "as early as 56 days after vaccination".This conclusion was based on a trial of a vaccine against Ebola developed earlier by the Gamaleya Institute using the same approach as for the Sputnik V shot.Vector immunity is not a new issue but has come under renewed scrutiny as companies including Johnson & Johnson anticipate regular Covid-19 vaccinations, like annual influenza shots, may be needed to combat new variants of the coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/russian-scientists-say-sputnik-v-performs-well-against-covid-mutations-101614431096724.html
27-02-2021||World||Capitol rioters tell court Donald Trump 'summoned' them to instigate Jan 6 riots||The “Trump-made-me-do-it” defense is already looking like a longshot.Facing damning evidence in the deadly Capitol siege last month — including social media posts flaunting their actions — rioters are arguing in court they were following then-President Donald Trump's instructions on Jan. 6. But the legal strategy has already been shot down by at least one judge and experts believe the argument is not likely to get anyone off the hook for the insurrection where five people died, including a police officer.“This purported defense, if recognized, would undermine the rule of law because then, just like a king or a dictator, the president could dictate what’s illegal and what isn’t in this country," US District Judge Beryl Howell said recently in ordering pretrial detention of William Chrestman, a suspected member of the Kansas City-area chapter of the Proud Boys. “And that is not how we operate here.”Chrestman’s attorneys argued in court papers that Trump gave the mob “explicit permission and encouragement” to do what they did, providing those who obeyed him with “a viable defense against criminal liability.”“It is an astounding thing to imagine storming the United States Capitol with sticks and flags and bear spray, arrayed against armed and highly trained law enforcement. Only someone who thought they had an official endorsement would even attempt such a thing. And a Proud Boy who had been paying attention would very much believe he did,” Chrestman’s lawyers wrote.Trump was acquitted of inciting the insurrection during his second impeachment trial, where Democrats made some of the same arguments defense attorneys are making in criminal court. Some Republican lawmakers have said the better place for the accusations against Trump is in court, too.Meanwhile, prosecutors have brought charges against more than 250 people so far in the attack, including conspiracy, assault, civil disorder and obstruction of an official proceeding. Authorities have suggested that rare sedition charges could be coming against some. Hundreds of Trump supporters were photographed and videotaped storming the Capitol and scores posted selfies inside the building on social media, so they can’t exactly argue in court they weren’t there. Blaming Trump may be the best defense they have.“What’s the better argument when you’re on videotape prancing around the Capitol with a coat rack in your hand?” said Sam Shamansky, who’s representing Dustin Thompson, an Ohio man accused of stealing a coat rack during the riot.Shamansky said his client would never have been at the Capitol on Jan. 6 if Trump hadn’t “summoned him there.” Trump, he added, engaged in a “devious yet effective plot to brainwash” supporters into believing the election was stolen, putting them in the position where they “felt the the need to defend their country at the request of the commander in chief.”“I think it fits perfectly,” he said of the defense. “The more nuanced question is: Who is going to buy it? What kind of jury panel do you need to understand that?”While experts say blaming Trump may not get their clients off the hook, it may help at sentencing when they ask the judge for leniency.“It could likely be considered a mitigating factor that this person genuinely believed they were simply following the instructions of the leader of the United States,” said Barbara McQuade, a former US attorney in Michigan who's now a professor at the University of Michigan Law School.It could also bolster any potential cases against the former president, experts say.“That defense is dead on arrival,” said Bradley Simon, a New York City white-collar criminal defense attorney and former federal prosecutor. “But I do think that these statements by defendants saying that they were led on by Trump causes a problem for him if the Justice Department or the attorney general in D.C. were to start looking at charges against him for incitement of the insurrection.”While the legal bar is high for prosecuting Trump in the Capitol siege, the former president is already facing a lawsuit from Democratic Rep. Bennie Thompson that accuses him of conspiring with extremist groups to prevent Congress from certifying the election results. And more lawsuits could come.Trump spread baseless claims about the election for weeks and addressed thousands of supporters at a rally near the White House before the Capitol riot, telling them that they had gathered in Washington "to save our democracy." Later, Trump said, “I know that everyone here will soon be marching over to the Capitol building to peacefully and patriotically make your voices heard.”A lawyer for Jacob Chansley, the shirtless man who wore face paint and a hat with horns inside the Capitol, attached a highlighted transcript of the Trump's speech before the riot to a court filing seeking Chansley's release from custody. The defense lawyer, Albert Watkins, said the federal government is sending a “disturbingly chilling message” that Americans will be prosecuted “if they do that which the President asks them to do.”Defense lawyers have employed other strategies without better success. In one case, the judge called a defense attorney’s portrayal of the riots as mere trespassing or civil disobedience both “unpersuasive and detached from reality.” In another, a judge rejected a man’s claim that he was “duped” into joining the anti-government Oath Keepers group and participating in the attack on the Capitol.Other defendants linked to militant groups also have tried to shift blame to Trump in seeking their pretrial release from jail. An attorney for Jessica Watkins said the Oath Keepers member believed local militias would be called into action if Trump invoked the Insurrection Act to stay in office. Watkins disavowed the Oath Keepers during a court hearing on Friday, saying she has been “appalled” by fellow members of the far-right militia.“However misguided, her intentions were not in any way related to an intention to overthrow the government, but to support what she believed to be the lawful government,” her lawyer wrote.Meanwhile, a lawyer for Dominic Pezzola, another suspected Proud Boy, “acted out of the delusional belief that he was a ‘patriot’ protecting his country." Defense attorney Jonathan Zucker described Pezzola as “one of millions of Americans who were misled by the President's deception.”“Many of those who heeded his call will be spending substantial portions if not the remainder of their lives in prison as a consequence," he wrote. “Meanwhile Donald Trump resumes his life of luxury and privilege."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/capitol-rioters-tell-court-donald-trump-summoned-them-to-instigate-jan-6-riots-101614433231427.html
27-02-2021||World||Iran expects 250,000 doses of Covid-19 vaccine from China||Iran's Health Ministry says the country expects to receive 250,000 doses of the Sinopharm vaccine from China on Saturday.Alireza Raisi, deputy health minister, says the country will receive doses of other vaccines, including from India, in the “near future” as the country struggles to fight the worst outbreak of the pandemic in the Middle East.This month, Iran imported 120,000 doses of the Sputnik V vaccine from Russia. Reports have said Iran has purchased a total of 2 million doses.Iran in December began human trials on the first vaccine manufactured in the country, which is expected to be distributed in the spring. The country is also working on a joint vaccine with Cuba.Iran plans to import some 17 million doses of vaccine from the international COVAX program and millions more from individual countries.Health Ministry spokeswoman Sima Sadat Lari put Iran's death toll from COVID-19 at 59,980 after 81 more died from the disease since Friday.Lari says 7,975 new confirmed cases have brought the total to more than 1.6 million in a country with a population of more than 83 million.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/iran-expects-250-000-doses-of-covid-19-vaccine-from-china-101614432201487.html
27-02-2021||World||Biden’s Covid relief plan: Here’s who could be eligible for $1,400 direct payments||The US House of Representatives early Saturday approved a $1.9 trillion stimulus plan in a partisan vote as the Republicans unanimously opposed the bill. If passed in Senate, the coronavirus relief plan, pushed by President Joe Biden, would provide the third round of federal stimulus checks to millions of American households. The other key elements of the bill include unemployment benefits until the end of August, monthly benefits to parents of children under the age of 18, and $70 billion for testing of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and vaccinations.Under the subtitle “promoting economic security”, the sprawling bill proposes $1,400 payments to individuals who fall under a certain income threshold. The payments would go to individuals and their dependents and for the first time, dependents age 17 or older could become eligible.Individuals with up to $75,000 adjusted gross income for that taxable year will be eligible for full payments. Apart from such individuals, married couples, who jointly file the return, earning up to $150,000 and heads of household earning up to $112,500 will qualify for the payments.People with income above the threshold will receive smaller payouts. The phaseout of payments is capped at $100,000 for single filers, $150,000 for heads of household and $200,000 for married couples. The House Ways and Means Committee has suggested basing the payments on either 2019 or 2020 tax returns.Read | What is Biden's $1.9 trillion Covid relief bill passed by the US HouseThe first two rounds of stimulus checks - $1,200 for the first round and $600 for the second - also had an income threshold. In the earlier rounds, individuals with income of up to $75,000 and married couples filing jointly with up to $150,000 income were eligible for the full payments. The phaseout in the first round of payment stood at $99,000 for single people and $198,000 for married couples, while $87,000 for a single person and $174,000 for married couples in the second round.Those eligible Americans who didn’t receive the previous stimulus payments can claim the amount in the 2020 federal tax return as a recovery rebate credit. In order to ensure beneficiaries receive the amount sooner, they need to file the return as early as possible and set up a direct deposit account that is linked directly to their bank account.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-covid-relief-plan-here-s-who-could-be-eligible-for-1-400-direct-payments-101614431557718.html
27-02-2021||World||Archaeologists uncover ancient ceremonial carriage near Pompeii||Archaeologists have unearthed a unique ancient-Roman ceremonial carriage from a villa just outside Pompeii, the city buried in a volcanic eruption in 79 AD.The almost perfectly preserved four-wheeled carriage made of iron, bronze and tin was found near the stables of an ancient villa at Civita Giuliana, around 700 metres (yards) north of the walls of ancient Pompeii.Massimo Osanna, the outgoing director of the Pompeii archaeological site, said the carriage was the first of its kind discovered in the area, which had so far yielded functional vehicles used for transport and work, but not for ceremonies."This is an extraordinary discovery that advances our understanding of the ancient world," Osanna said, adding that the carriage would have "accompanied festive moments for the community, (such as) parades and processions".The culture ministry called it "a unique find, without any precedent in Italy".Pompeii, 23 km (14 miles) southeast of Naples, was home to about 13,000 people when it was buried under ash, pumice pebbles and dust as it endured the force of an eruption equivalent to many atomic bombs.About two-thirds of the 66-hectare (165-acre) ancient town has been uncovered. The ruins were not discovered until the 16th century and organised excavations began in about 1750."Pompeii continues to amaze us with its discoveries and it will do so for many years, with 20 hectares still to be dug up," said Culture Minister Dario Franceschini.A rare documentation of Greco-Roman life, Pompeii is one of Italy's most popular attractions and a UNESCO World Heritage Site.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/archaeologists-uncover-ancient-ceremonial-carriage-near-pompeii-101614430024744.html
27-02-2021||World||Italy tightens Covid-19 curbs in several regions as cases pick up||Italy's government on Saturday ramped up restrictions in five of the country's 20 regions in an effort to head off a rise in Covid-19 cases as scientists warned of a growing prevalence of highly contagious new variants.Italy has established a four-tier colour-coded system (white, yellow, orange and red) which allows for measures to be calibrated according to infection levels, with assessments revised every week.For the first time since the end of January, two regions -- Basilicata and Molise -- were shunted into the strictest red zone. This means bars and restaurants must be shuttered, movement severely restricted and all but essential shops closed.Three regions moved from yellow to orange zones: Lombardy and Piedmont, which are centred on the wealthy northern cities of Milan and Turin respectively, and the central coastal region of Marche.In these areas restaurants and bars are closed except for take-aways and people are not allowed to leave their towns except for emergencies, work and health reasons.The island of Sardinia became the first region to be named a white zone, with only minimal restrictions.Saturday's decision means that as of Monday, when it becomes effective, two regions will be classified as red, nine as orange, eight as yellow and one as white.On Friday the health ministry signalled a continued rise in infections, with 20,499 new daily cases, up from 19,886 the day before. Over the last five days, new cases have increased by 35% by comparison with the same period last week.Italy also reported 253 coronavirus-related deaths on Friday against 308 the day before. Deaths always lag the rise in cases."Many outbreaks are due to the (new) variants. I am concerned about the progress of the epidemic. We must keep up our guard and we must intervene promptly and strongly where needed," said Gianni Rezza, a senior health ministry adviser.On Friday, in one of his first decisions in managing the health crisis since taking office earlier this month, Prime Minister Mario Draghi named Fabrizio Curcio as the new head of the Civil Protection Agency replacing Angelo Borrelli.No reason was given for Borrelli's removal.Along with regional restrictions, gyms remain closed virtually nationwide and opening hours for bars and restaurants are limited. Such curbs will almost certainly be confirmed until after Easter.Looking to instil some optimism, Culture Minister Dario Franceschini said the government was considering reopening cinemas and theatres in low-risk yellow areas from March 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/italy-tightens-covid-19-curbs-in-several-regions-as-cases-pick-up-101614431421803.html
27-02-2021||World||What is Biden's $1.9 trillion Covid relief bill passed by the US House||The US House of Representatives on Saturday passed President Joe Biden's quintessential Covid-19 relief package worth $1.9 trillion.The major legislative priority for the Biden administration comes days after the coronavirus toll in the US crossed the 500,000 mark.Also Read | US in delicate balancing act as Saudi prince spared sanctionsHere is what all you need to know about the bill:> The bill was approved in the US House with a final vote tally of 219-212 as two democrats voted against the bill-Kurt Schrader of Oregon and Jared Golden of Maine, as reported by CNN. Majorly, the Democratic party has supported the bill and believe it to be a critical step for saving families and local governments devastated by the coronavirus pandemic.> The bill will come into force after the approval in the Senate and the US President Joe Biden's signature on it.> The stimulus package involves a payment of $1,400 to individuals making less than $75,000 annually.> Payment of $400 per week as an unemployment supplement through August 29. The programs will be extended to make millions of more Americans eligible for jobless benefits.> The child tax credit will also be expanded as per the bill to offer families up to $3,600 per child a year.> For the vaccination drive, $20 billion is earmarked for Covid vaccination distribution, $50 billion for testing and tracing contacts.> The bill also includes $350 billion for state, local and tribal government relief, $25 billion for rent payment assistance and $170 billion for K-12 schools and higher education institutions for aid to students and cover reopening costs.Also Read | Private hospitals can't charge more than ₹200 per dose of vaccine: Report> The bill includes a contentious $15 per hour federal minimum wage which the Senate parliamentarian is anticipated to not allow under the reconciliation which the Senate Democrats are using to pass the bill with a simple majority vote. In this case, the bill will go back to the US House before Biden can sign it for execution.Vice President Kamala Harris and House Speaker Nancy Pelosi have appeared determined to include the increased federal minimum wage. The House will "absolutely" pass the Covid relief bill if it returns from the Senate without the hike in the minimum wage. The Democrats will try to pass the wage increase through a separate plan if needed, Pelosi was quoted as saying by CNBC. "We will not rest until we pass the $15 minimum wage," Pelosi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/what-is-biden-s-1-9-trillion-covid-relief-bill-passed-by-the-us-house-101614426344240.html
27-02-2021||World||Putin critic Navalny transferred from a Moscow detention centre||Russian opposition figure Alexey Navalny has been transferred from a Moscow detention centre to a penal colony, according to state media.Navalny remains behind bars after a Russian court partially rejected his appeal over a two-and-a-half-year prison sentence handed down earlier this month.A Moscow court had sent Russian President Vladimir Putin's biggest critic to prison for more than two-and-a-half years. CNN reported the verdict was announced after a heated hearing in which the Kremlin critic ridiculed claims he broke his parole conditions while in a coma and denounced Russia's leader as "Putin the poisoner."According to CNN, the exact location and name of the penal colony were not revealed but Alexander Kalashnikov of Russia's Federal Penitentiary Service (FSIN) told reporters: "According to the court's decision, he left to where he currently should be. Everything is done within the framework of the law and the current legislation."Kalashnikov added Navalny will be kept in "absolutely normal conditions."On Thursday, Navalny's lawyers had told CNN he had been moved from Matrosskaya Tishina detention centre in Moscow but no details had been provided to Navalny's team or his family on where he was being moved to.Vadim Kobzev, one of Navalny's lawyers, had told CNN on Friday that he still did not know which penal colony his client had been taken to. He said that according to Russian law, prison services have up to 10 days to inform Navalny's family where he has been moved to.Marina Litvinovich of Moscow's Public Monitoring Commission (ONK), which observes the treatment of prisoners, told CNN that the Putin critic is due to be sent to a "general regime" penal colony, the most common type of prison in Russia.Litvinovich said prisoners are not usually kept in cells but sleep in dormitories and are divided into groups. She added prisoners can work if they choose to do so.The Putin critic was previously handed a three-and-a-half-year suspended sentence in the 2014 case along with five years of probation. He had to spend five months in Germany recovering from Novichok poisoning before his return to Moscow on January 17.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/putin-critic-navalny-transferred-from-a-moscow-detention-centre-101614431366899.html
27-02-2021||World||Donald Trump, the dominant force at conservative conference||A conference dedicated to the future of the conservative movement turned into an ode to Donald Trump as speakers declared their fealty to the former president and attendees posed for selfies with a golden statue of his likeness.As the Republican Party grapples with deep divisions over the extent to which it should embrace Trump after losing the White House and both chambers of Congress, those gathered at the annual Conservative Political Action Conference on Friday made clear they are not ready to move on from the former president — or from his baseless charges that the November election was rigged against him.“Donald J. Trump ain’t going anywhere,” said Texas Sen. Ted Cruz, one of several potential 2024 presidential contenders who spoke at the event, being held this year in Orlando to bypass Covid-19 restrictions.Trump on Sunday will be making his first post-presidential appearance at the conference, and aides say he will use the speech to reassert his power.The program underscored the split raging within the GOP, as many establishment voices argue the party must move on from Trump to win back the suburban voters who abandoned them in November, putting President Joe Biden in the White House. Senate Republican leader Mitch McConnell and others worry Trump will undermine the party’s political future if he and his conspiracy theories continue to dominate Republican politics.But at the conference, speakers continued to fan disinformation and conspiracy theories about the 2020 election, with panels dedicated to amplifying false claims of mass voter fraud that have been dismissed by the courts, state election officials and Trump’s own administration.Indeed, Sen. Josh Hawley, R-Mo., another potential 2024 hopeful, drew among the loudest applause and a standing ovation when he bragged about challenging the election certification on Jan. 6 despite the storming of the Capitol building by Trump supporters trying to halt the process.“I thought it was an important stand to take," he said.Others argued the party would lose if it turned its back on Trump and alienated the working-class voters drawn to his populist message.“We cannot — we will not — go back to the days of the failed Republican establishment of yesteryear,” said Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis, who outlined a new Trumpian GOP agenda focused on restrictive immigration policies, opposition to China and limiting military engagement.“We will not win the future by trying to go back to where the Republican Party used to be,” echoed Florida Sen. Rick Scott, who chairs the fundraising committee tasked with electing Republicans to the Senate. “If we do, we will lose the working base that President Trump so animated. We’re going to lose elections across the country, and ultimately we’re going to lose our nation."Scott is dismissing pressure on him to “mediate between warring factions on the right” or “mediate the war of words between the party leaders." He has refused to take sides in the bitter ongoing fight between Trump and McConnell, who blamed Trump for inciting the deadly Capitol riot but ultimately voted to acquit him at his impeachment trial earlier this month.“I’m not going to mediate anything," he said, criticizing those who “prefer to fan the flames of a civil war on our side” as “foolish” and “ridiculous."But in speeches throughout the day, the GOP turmoil was front and center. Trump’s eldest son, Donald Trump Jr., lit into Wyoming Rep. Liz Cheney, the No. 3 House Republican, who has faced tremendous backlash for her vote to impeach Trump for inciting the Capitol riot.And as the program was wrapping up, Trump issued a statement endorsing Max Miller, a former staffer who has now launched a campaign challenging Ohio Rep. Anthony Gonzalez, another Republican who voted in favor of impeachment.Kimberly Guilfoyle, a former Fox News Channel host and Trump Jr.'s girlfriend, offered a pointed message to those who stand in opposition to the former president, who will not arrive at the conference until Sunday but was present in spirit in the form of a large golden statue erected in a merchandise show booth, where attendees could pose for pictures with it.“We bid a farewell to the weak-kneed, the spineless and the cowards that are posing in D.C. pretending that they’re working for the people,” she said. “Let’s send them a pink slip straight from CPAC.”Trump Jr., who labeled the conference “TPAC” in honor of his father, hyped the return of his father and the “Make America Great Again” platform to the spotlight.“I imagine it will not be what we call a ‘low-energy’ speech," he said. “And I assure you that it will solidify Donald Trump and all of your feelings about the MAGA movement as the future of the Republican Party.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-the-dominant-force-at-conservative-conference-101614429424629.html
27-02-2021||World||Texas’s power market is $1.3 billion short after energy crisis||Texas’s grid operator needs to come up with $1.3 billion to pay power plants for energy they supplied during last week’s historic blackouts, raising the prospect it may require a state bailout.The Electric Reliability Council of Texas, which manages most of the state’s grid, said it’s still waiting on more than $2 billion in payments from retail power providers and others after a deep winter freeze caused energy prices to skyrocket. The grid operator, known as Ercot, managed to cover part of that debt by transferring $800 million in revenues from another market but remains $1.3 billion short, according to a notice.If Ercot can’t come up with the rest, the debt could end being shared by everyone in the market -- even consumers. That may prompt lawmakers to step in and make up the difference, said Evan Caron, chief strategy officer of energy technology firm ClearTrace and a former Ercot trader.“Someone is going to need to pay,” Caron said in an interview. “I’ve never seen anything like this before.”Ercot did not immediately respond to an inquiry into whether it plans to ask for a state bailout.The shortfall comes after this month’s Arctic blast knocked nearly half of the state’s power generating capacity offline, causing electricity prices to jump to $9,000 a megawatt-hour and leaving some buyers unable to pay. The crisis plunged more than 4 million homes and businesses into darkness for days. Dozens died in the cold.The $1.3 billion shortfall that Ercot now faces is unprecedented, said Adam Sinn, power trader and owner of Aspire Commodities LLC.“In the past I have only seen a million-dollar shortfall -- so a billion dollar one is not even in the ballpark,” Sinn said.In addition to managing the grid, Ercot is a middleman for transactions between power plant owners and retail energy providers that buy their electricity. Under typical conditions, those transactions are settled every day. But the organization warned Wednesday that several retailers were in “payment breach” and that more could default. As a result, some generators haven’t been paid in full.“If there are massive bankruptcies among utilities, then there might be a need for a state intervention of some sort, like a bailout,” said Michael Webber, a professor at the University of Texas at Austin who serves as chief science and technology officer at French utility Engie SA. “The total tally will certainly be higher than $2 billion, and no one knows what the ultimate consequences will be because this is new territory for us.”Two public utilities told Texas lawmakers during hearings Friday that Ercot owed them money for power they produced during the crisis.“We are concerned that because of potential bankruptcy of retail providers we will not be paid,” said Terry Naulty, assistant general manager of Denton Municipal Electric.Several retail electricity providers, including Young Energy LLC and Spark Energy Inc., are disputing Ercot charges they incurred for so-called ancillary services, which help the grid operator maintain reliability on the system.Because the real-time price of electricity was set at $9,000-a-megawatt-hour for several days during the grid emergency, the cost of ancillary services skyrocketed, costing some companies tens of millions of dollars. Some retailers have asked the Public Utility Commission of Texas to waive their obligation to pay those charges while their challenges are ongoing.Freepoint Commodities LLC has also appealed to the commission, saying they intend to challenge Ercot’s ancillary service charges and are concerned the grid operator lacks the liquidity to return any successfully disputed payments.On Friday, the grid operator announced it would cover part of the shortfall with $800 million in congestion revenues, money generated from trading bottlenecks on the grid that is supposed to be returned to consumers. Using congestion revenues will likely hit retailer margins, according to Caron.“They are going to have to figure out how to recoup those margins and if they are still alive and standing after this, anticipate the fixed-rate price contracts to go up for customers,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/texass-power-market-is-1-3-billion-short-after-energy-crisis-101614427583620.html
27-02-2021||World||WWII plane flypast marks UK Covid hero Capt. Tom Moore's funeral||A World War II-era plane flew Saturday over the funeral service of Captain Tom Moore, in honor of the veteran who single-handedly raised millions of pounds for Britain's health workers by walking laps in his backyard.Soldiers performed ceremonial duties at the service for the 100-year-old, whose charity walk inspired the nation and raised almost 33 million pounds ($46 million). Captain Tom, as he became known, died Feb. 2 in the hospital after testing positive for Covid-19.Just eight members of the veteran's immediate family attended Saturday's private service, but soldiers carried his coffin to a crematorium and formed a ceremonial guard. The family has urged well-wishers to stay at home as the country remains in lockdown.A version of the song “Smile," recorded by singer Michael Buble, was to be played at the funeral.Moore, who served in India, Burma and Sumatra during WWII, set out to raise a modest 1,000 pounds for Britain’s National Health Service by walking 100 laps of his backyard by his 100th birthday. But his quest went viral, catching the imagination of millions stuck at home during the first wave of the pandemic.His positive attitude — “Please always remember, tomorrow will be a good day” became his trademark phrase — inspired the nation at a time of crisis, and Prime Minister Boris Johnson described him as a “hero in the truest sense of the word.″He was knighted by Queen Elizabeth II in July in a socially distanced ceremony at Windsor Castle, west of London.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/wwii-plane-flypast-marks-uk-covid-hero-capt-tom-moore-s-funeral-101614429806629.html
27-02-2021||World||White House to ignore Trump's speech ahead of conservative conference||President Joe Biden's White House has made it clear it plans to ignore Donald Trump's speech on Sunday to a conservative conference in Florida, where the former president is expected to go on the attack against his successor."Our focus is certainly not on what President Trump is saying" at the Conservative Political Action Conference, White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki told reporters.It's a strategy that has worked before, political veterans and historians say."Biden is obeying an old political rule, which is 'Never get in the way of a train wreck'," said Bob Shrum, former Democratic strategist and director of the Center for Political Future at University of Southern California.Biden's approval ratings in Gallup polls have remained above 55% since he took office on Jan. 20, and support for the White House's $1.9 trillion Covid-relief package is higher."Why should somebody with a 60 percent approval rating be fighting with someone with a 33 percent approval rating?," Shrum said. "It just doesn’t make any sense."Democratic strategist Steve Elmendorf agreed."One of Biden’s great strengths in the campaign was he focused on the future ... he is doing exactly what he needs to do which is talk about Covid and the economy," Elmendorf said.Meanwhile, Republicans are at loggerheads over how to deal with Trump's legacy.Several of the seven Republican senators who voted to convict Trump on an impeachment charge over the deadly riot at the US Capitol have faced censure votes at home.Others, like House minority leader Kevin McCarthy, have taken great pains to walk back initial criticism of Trump's role on January 6, when he urged his supporters to march on the Capitol."The Republicans are having a fight with themselves about Donald Trump," Elmendorf said. "We should let them have it and stay out of it."On Sunday, Trump is expected to signal a run in 2024 and put Republicans who supported his impeachment on notice, while accusing Biden of opening the doors to immigrants.The White House plans to shrug."Well, we’re not looking to former President Trump or any of his advisers as a model for how we're approaching immigration," Psaki said.Some say any truly incendiary remarks on Sunday or afterwards deserve a federal government response, however."Anything that says that threatens the constitutional order is going to be beyond the pale and there are going to be, in effect, certain red lines that if Trump goes over them, that Biden will feel compelled to say something," said David Gergen, a former adviser to Presidents Richard Nixon, Gerald Ford, Ronald Reagan and Bill Clinton."The more Biden is able to hold back, the more important it will be when he unloads on Trump if he decides to do that," Gergen said.But there's little reason to comment on Trump otherwise, Princeton political history professor Julian Zelizer said.Biden "is on the cusp of a major stimulus relief package that is enormously popular so why allow the former president to take the people’s eyes off of that? I just don’t think there is any incentive for him to do it," Zelizer said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/white-house-to-ignore-trump-s-speech-ahead-of-conservative-conference-101614427549522.html
27-02-2021||World||US in delicate balancing act as Saudi prince spared sanctions||US President Joe Biden's decision not to sanction Saudi Arabia's crown prince over journalist Jamal Khashoggi's murder has frustrated campaigners, underscoring Washington's delicate balancing act as it seeks to avoid a diplomatic rupture.Washington on Friday released a long-delayed intelligence report that accused Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman of approving Khashoggi's 2018 murder in Istanbul, drawing a rebuke from Riyadh, which strongly rejected the assessment.The public censure of the prince and a slew of US sanctions on dozens of Saudi officials marks a sharp departure from the policy of former president Donald Trump, who sought to shield the kingdom's de facto ruler.But Washington did not slap any direct sanctions on Prince Mohammed, known by his initials MBS, with Secretary of State Antony Blinken explaining that Biden wants to "recalibrate" but not "rupture" its relations with Riyadh, a longstanding Middle East partner."This is not the Saudi smack-down that many hoped for," said Varsha Koduvayur, a research analyst at the Foundation for Defense of Democracies, a conservative Washington think-tank.It indicates "Biden's overall Saudi stance: put values at the heart of US foreign policy, emphasise human rights, and reverse the transactional approach of last four years (under Trump) -- while preserving the relationship," Koduvayur added.Call for sanctionsThe Washington-based campaign group Freedom House said it was "disappointing and frustrating that the US is yet unwilling to act on its own intelligence" and impose sanctions on the Saudi prince."We expect nothing less than justice for Jamal Khashoggi and all of Saudi Arabia's brave dissidents," said the New York-based Human Rights Foundation, which produced "The Dissident", a critically acclaimed documentary on the journalist's murder."The United States and the European Union must urgently place sanctions on MBS himself."The intelligence report -- which had been withheld after being completed under Trump -- said it was "highly unlikely" that Khashoggi's murder could have taken place without his green light.The killing of Khashoggi, a Washington Post columnist and critic of Prince Mohammed, also fits a pattern of "the crown prince's support for using violent measures to silence dissidents abroad", it added.But Saudi observers dismissed the highly anticipated report, with Ali Shihabi, a government adviser close to the kingdom's royal court, saying the "thin" assessment lacked a "smoking gun".Soon after the report was made public, the Arabic hashtag "We are all MBS" began trending on Twitter, with pro-government cyber armies tweeting in support of the Saudi heir apparent.Preserving tiesBiden had pledged during his campaign to make the kingdom a "pariah" after it got a free pass under Trump, but observers say he is instead adopting a middle path.While scrutinising human rights, his new administration is expected to work to preserve a valuable security partnership while it moves to reboot nuclear talks with Riyadh's arch-enemy Tehran.Biden also needs to deal with the top crude producer on the highly fraught issues of energy, counterterrorism, and efforts to end the conflict in Yemen."The Biden foreign policy team is comprised of seasoned experts who are not so naive as to think that they can achieve their goals in the Middle East without dealing with a Saudi state that still anchors, though in a less totalising way, both oil and security in the Gulf," said Kristin Diwan of the Arab Gulf States Institute in Washington."For this reason, they have ruled out the sanctioning of Mohammed bin Salman, preserving space to deal with the Saudi state and its top leadership."Still, Washington on Friday announced the "Khashoggi Act" that will ban entry into the US of foreigners who threaten dissidents and placed 76 Saudis on the blacklist, in what could serve as a strong deterrent.Biden also appears to have steered away from his predecessor's transactional relationship with the kingdom, an important buyer of US military hardware.Recent official statements from Washington have called Saudi Arabia a "security partner", instead of what the Trump administration highlighted as an "ally".In an apparent snub earlier this week, Biden insisted on making his first Saudi phone call to 85-year-old King Salman, even as Saudi pro-government supporters insisted that his son, Prince Mohammed, was the kingdom's day-to-day ruler."Washington realises that MBS could go on to rule Saudi Arabia for the next half century, so it cannot afford to completely alienate him," a Western diplomat told AFP."But it is also making clear that it will no longer give him a free pass."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-in-delicate-balancing-act-as-saudi-prince-spared-sanctions-101614426662856.html
27-02-2021||World||Bangladesh under 'no obligation' to accept stranded Rohingya refugees: Minister||Bangladesh is under "no obligation" to shelter 81 Rohingya Muslim refugees adrift for almost two weeks on the Andaman Sea and being assisted by neighbouring India, said Bangladesh foreign minister A.K. Abdul Momen.India's coast guard found the 81 survivors and eight dead crammed onto a crippled fishing boat and were trying to arrange for Bangladesh to take them, Indian officials said on Friday.But Momen told Reuters late on Friday that Bangladesh expects India, the closest country, or Myanmar, the Rohingyas' country of origin, to accept them."They are not Bangladesh nationals and in fact, they are Myanmar nationals. They were found 1,700 km (1,100 miles) away from the Bangladesh maritime territory and therefore, we have no obligation to take them," said Momen, who is in the United States."They were located 147 km (91 miles) away from Indian territory, 324 km (201 miles) away from Myanmar," he said by phone, adding other countries and organisations should take care of the refugees.Indian foreign ministry officials did not respond to requests for comment.External Affairs Ministry spokesman Anurag Srivastava said on Thursday that India was "in discussions with the Government of Bangladesh to ensure their safe and secure repatriation."India's foreign ministry did not respond to requests for comment on whether it would accept the refugees onto Indian soil.One senior Indian official, who declined to be named as he was not authorized to discuss the matter with media, said India planned to help the refugees with food and water, but it was not planning to take them ashore.New Delhi did not sign the 1951 Refugee Convention, which spells out refugee rights and state responsibilities to protect them. Nor does it have a law protecting refugees, though it currently hosts more than 200,000, including some Rohingya.More than 1 million Rohingya refugees from predominantly Buddhist Myanmar are living in teeming camps in Muslim-majority Bangladesh, including tens of thousands who fled after Myanmar's military conducted a deadly crackdown in 2017.Traffickers often lure Rohingya refugees with promises of work in Southeast Asian countries like Malaysia.The United Nations refugee agency, UNHCR, expressed alarm this week over the missing boat.India on Thursday said around 47 of the occupants of the boat are in possession of ID cards issued to them by the UNHCR office in Bangladesh, stating that they are displaced Myanmar nationals.NO 'GLOBAL CONTRACT' TO AID REFUGEESThe refugees have been drifting in international waters after leaving southern Bangladesh on Feb. 11 in the hope of reaching Malaysia.On Saturday, they were under the aid and surveillance of India as officials were holding talks to return them to Bangladesh, said the senior Indian official who is not authorised to speak to the media.The boat, which sailed from the massive Cox's Bazar refugee camp, was carrying 56 women, eight girls, 21 men and five boys.Many of the survivors, according to Indian officials, were sick and suffering from extreme dehydration, having run out of food and water after the boat's engine failed four days into their journey."Has Bangladesh been given the global contract and responsibility to take and rehabilitate all the Rohingya or boat people of the world?" Momen said. "No, not at all."Momen said the UNHCR should also take responsibility as many people on the boat hold ID cards from the UNHCR office in Bangladesh."If (the refugees) are UNHCR card holders, why did they allow traffickers to take their card holders to adrift on the high sea leading to death?"UNHCR officials were not immediately reachable for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/bangladesh-under-no-obligation-to-accept-stranded-rohingya-refugees-minister-101614424388529.html
27-02-2021||World||Iran says US air strikes in Syria encourage terrorism in the region||Friday's US air strikes against Iran-backed militias in eastern Syria encourage terrorism in the region, Iran’s top security official, Ali Shamkhani, said on Saturday.Washington said the strikes on positions of the Kataib Hezbollah (KH) paramilitary group along the Iraq border were in response to rocket attacks against US targets in Iraq.“America’s recent action strengthens and expands the activities of the terrorist Daesh (Islamic State) in the region,” Shamkhani, the Secretary of Iran’s Supreme National Security council, said in remarks to visiting Iraqi Foreign Minister Fuad Hussein.“The attack on anti-terrorist resistance forces is the beginning of a new round of organized terrorism,” the semi-official Nour News quoted him as saying.Hussein, on his second visit to Iran in a month, later met with his Iranian counterpart Mohammad Javad Zarif.Hussein is in Iran “to discuss regional developments, including ways to balance relations and avoid tension and escalation” with Iranian officials, according to an Iraqi foreign ministry statement.An Iraqi militia official close to Iran said the strikes killed one fighter and wounded four. US officials said they were limited in scope to show President Joe Biden’s administration will act firmly while trying to avoid a big regional escalation.Shamkhani said “we will confront the US plan to revive terrorism in the region”, but did not elaborate.The air strikes targeted militia sites on the Syrian side of the Iraqi-Syrian frontier, where groups backed by Iran control an important crossing for weapons, personnel and goods.Western officials and some Iraqi officials accuse Iranian-backed groups of involvement in deadly rocket attacks on US sites and personnel in Iraq over the last month.Washington and Tehran are seeking maximum leverage in attempts to save Iran’s nuclear deal reached with world powers in 2015 but abandoned in 2018 by then-President Donald Trump, after which regional tensions soared.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/iran-says-us-air-strikes-in-syria-encourage-terrorism-in-the-region-101614422846546.html
27-02-2021||World||US Democrats reintroduce legislation to prevent future Muslim bans||As many as 140 Democratic lawmakers have reintroduced a legislation in the US Congress to prevent future Muslim bans and prohibit discrimination on the basis of religion.The Muslim travel ban, introduced by former US President Donald Trump, targeted several Muslim-majority nations and restricted the entry of people from Iran, North Korea, Syria, Libya, Yemen, Somalia and Venezuela. President Joe Biden ended the Muslim ban on his day one in the office last month.In the House of Representatives, the National Origin-Based Antidiscrimination for Nonimmigrants (NO BAN) Act was reintroduced on Friday by House Judiciary Committee Chairman Jerrold Nadler and Judy Chu, while in the Senate it was done by Senator Chris Coons.Indian-American lawmakers Ami Bera, Ro Khanna, Pramila Jayapal and Raja Krishnamoorthi are among those who are supporting the bill.The legislation strengthens the Immigration and Nationality Act to prohibit discrimination on the basis of religion, and restores the separation of powers by limiting overly broad executive authority to issue future travel bans.“When the Trump Administration issued its xenophobic Muslim ban, it was immediately apparent that it was unconstitutional, discriminatory, and morally reprehensible,” said Nadler.“I am grateful that President Biden took bold action on day one to repeal this ban and reunite families, but we cannot risk the possibility of any future President reinstating this heinous policy,” he said.The Muslim ban was a hateful stain on the United States. Inspired only by bigotry and not any genuine national security concerns, the ban served only to separate families while stoking bigotry, xenophobia, and Islamophobia, said Congresswoman Judy Chu.“However, we cannot risk letting prejudice become policy again. That is why I am once again introducing the NO BAN Act to update our laws. By requiring actual evidence of a threat before there can be any such broad based bans like this, the NO BAN Act ensures that future presidents will not be able to ban people solely because of their religion,” she said.Senator Coons said, “we have turned the page on the tragic Muslim ban, but now we must write the next chapter – one in which no president can act through fear and prejudice to discriminate against a community of faith.”“The Muslim ban senselessly upended lives and cut off thousands of Americans from their loved ones. Only through an act of Congress can we ensure that such a discriminatory and overreaching action by a president never happens again. The NO BAN Act reasserts not only the role of Congress under our system of checks and balances, but also the proud American legacy of welcoming immigrants and refugees,” he said.“The Muslim ban is a stain on our nation’s history— a direct violation of our basic principles of equality under the law and religious freedom,” said Congresswoman Ilhan Omar.“Thankfully, President Biden ended this hateful ban on day one of his presidency. But we must ensure that no president can ever ban a group of people from this country based solely on their religion or nationality."We must ensure that mothers will not be separated from their children, that brothers and sisters will not be torn apart— and that people around the world have a shot at the American Dream. I’m proud to work with my colleagues to place the Muslim ban in the dustbin of history where it belongs,” Omar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-democrats-reintroduce-legislation-to-prevent-future-muslim-bans-101614421942345.html
27-02-2021||World||‘Hate to say this’: Pilot reported UFO sighting, FBI ‘aware’ of incident||An American Airlines pilot, on a flight from Cincinnati to Phoenix last weekend, was heard reporting “a long cylindrical object” that flew just over his plane. An aviation blog Deep Black Horizon published the audio of a radio transmission intercept from American Airlines flight 2292, indicating that the pilot reported an unidentified flying object (UFO) on February 21.“Do you have any targets up here? We just had something go right over the top of us - I hate to say this but it looked like a long cylindrical object that almost looked like a cruise missile type of thing - moving really fast right over the top of us," the pilot can be heard saying in the audio MP3 file titled “UFO”, published by the blogger.The blogger, Steve Douglass, told The Arizona Republic that he intercepted the radio transmission accidentally while trying to pick another aircraft with a radio scanner. He used flight tracking websites Flight 24 and Flight Aware to establish the exact position of the plane and found out that it was “over the northeast corner of New Mexico west of Clayton” at an altitude of 37,000 feet.Purported AUDIO of American Airlines flight crew witnessing a "long cylindrical" UFO over New Mexico. Allegedly from yesterday (Feb 21). @Aviation_Intel has the full developing story at @thedrive - https://t.co/V5WwThMrxQ#ufotwitter pic.twitter.com/p125Y50yjiRead | CIA documents on UFOs unexpectedly made available to downloadThe Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) later released a statement confirming the report but added that air traffic controllers of the aviation agency did not see any object in the area on their radarscopes. “A pilot reported seeing an object over New Mexico shortly after noon local time on Sunday, Feb. 21, 2021. FAA air traffic controllers did not see any object in the area on their radarscopes,” FAA said in a statement.A spokesperson for the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) said that the agency is “aware of the reported incident.” “While our policy is to neither confirm nor deny investigations, the FBI works continuously with our federal, state, local, and tribal partners to share intelligence and protect the public. Anyone who is aware of suspicious or criminal activity should contact their local law enforcement agency or the FBI,” Frank Connor, spokesperson for the federal agency, told CBS News.In April 2020, the US department of defense released three declassified videos that showed US Navy pilots encountering what appeared to be UFOs. Following the declassification of videos, the US Navy released seven incident reports on the series of encounters between Navy pilots and UAP. Earlier this year, the documentation by the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) on UFOs were made available for download.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hate-to-say-this-pilot-reported-ufo-sighting-fbi-aware-of-incident-101614420361471.html
27-02-2021||World||Prince Harry says British press was destroying his mental health||Britain's Prince Harry said in a rare one-on-one interview that he left royal life because the British press was "destroying" his mental health, and revealed he watches "The Crown."Harry gave an intimate insight into his young family's new life in Los Angeles during an open-top bus tour of the city with "The Late Late Show" host James Corden."We all know what the British press can be like, and it was destroying my mental health," said Harry, who relocated to the United States with wife Meghan Markle last year."I was, like, this is toxic. So I did what any husband and what any father would do. I need to get my family out of here."Harry and Markle's shock announcement in January 2020 that they were stepping back from royal duties rocked Britain's royal family, with British newspapers dubbing it "Mexit."Earlier this month, Buckingham Palace announced that the couple had permanently quit royal duties following a one-year review of the new arrangement.Queen Elizabeth II ordered the Duke and Duchess of Sussex, as they are formally known, to relinquish their honorary titles and patronages."It was never walking away," Harry, 36, told Corden. "It was stepping back rather than stepping down. It was a really difficult environment."Harry has long had a difficult relationship with Britain's tabloids, blaming press intrusion for contributing to his mother Princess Diana's death in a car crash in 1997.Earlier this month, Markle won a high-profile privacy claim against Associated Newspapers for publishing a private letter that she wrote to her estranged father.Harry said he was "more comfortable" with the portrayal of the royal family in the hit Netflix series "The Crown" than he is with newspaper stories written about him and his family."They don't pretend to be news. It's fictional," Harry said of the show."It's loosely based on the truth. Of course, it's not strictly accurate, but it gives you a rough idea about what that lifestyle, what the pressures of putting duty and service above family and everything else, what can come from that."Harry, who remains sixth in line to the throne, revealed that he would like to see actor Damian Lewis play him in future series.The prince admitted during the relaxed chat that it was the first time he had ever been on an open-top bus.Harry and Corden visited the house from hit 1990s US TV series "The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air." They voice-called Markle, who referred to Harry as "Haz."Harry said that he had Zoomed with the Queen and Prince Philip so they could see their great-grandson Archie.The prince revealed that Archie's first word was "crocodile" and that the Queen had sent Archie a waffle maker for Christmas.Harry also described evenings at their Santa Barbara home."Depending on how the day's been and how busy it's been, we do Archie's tea, give him a bath, read him a book, put him down, go downstairs."Meg might cook a meal, might order a takeaway, go upstairs sit in bed, turn the TV on, watch some Jeopardy, maybe watch a little bit of Netflix," the prince said.The release of the interview comes a week before Harry and Markle's controversial interview with Oprah Winfrey will air.Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/prince-harry-says-british-press-was-destroying-his-mental-health-101614418678522.html
27-02-2021||World||16 million Yemenis going hungry, 5 million on the brink of famine: UN aid chief||Ahmadiya Juaidi's eyes are wide as she drinks a nutrition shake from a large orange mug, her thin fingers grasping the handle. Her hair is pulled back and around her neck hangs a silver necklace with a heart and the letter A.Three weeks ago the 13-year-old weighed just nine kilograms (20 pounds) when she was admitted to al-Sabeen hospital in Yemen's capital Sanaa with malnutrition that sickened her for at least the past four years. Now she weighs 15 kilograms."I am afraid when we go back to the countryside her condition will deteriorate again due to lack of nutritional food. We have no income," her older brother, Muhammad Abdo Taher Shami, told Reuters.They are among some 16 million Yemenis - more than half the population of the Arabian Peninsula country - that the United Nations says are going hungry. Of those, five million are on the brink of famine, UN aid chief Mark Lowcock warns.On Monday the United Nations hopes to raise some $3.85 billion at a virtual pledging event to avert what Lowcock says would be a large-scale "man-made" famine, the worst the world will have seen for decades.More than six years of war in Yemen - widely seen as a proxy conflict between Saudi Arabia and Iran - have sent the impoverished country spiralling into what the United Nations describes as the world's largest humanitarian crisis.Some 80% of Yemenis need help, with 400,000 children under the age of five severely malnourished, according to UN data. For much of its food, the country relies on imports that have been badly disrupted over the years by all warring parties."Before the war Yemen was a poor country with a malnutrition problem, but it was one which had a functioning economy, a government that provided services to quite a lot of its people, a national infrastructure and an export base," Lowcock told reporters. "The war has largely destroyed all of that."Also read: UK urges UN resolution for pause in conflicts for Covid-19 jabs"In the modern world famines are basically about people having no income and then other people blocking efforts to help them. That's basically what we've got in Yemen," he added.HUNGER VS PANDEMICA Saudi Arabia-led military coalition intervened in Yemen in 2015 after the Iran-allied Houthi group ousted the country's government from Sanaa. The Houthis say they are fighting a corrupt system. The people's suffering has been worsened by an economic and currency collapse, and by the Covid-19 pandemic.UN officials are trying to revive peace talks, and new US President Joe Biden has said Yemen is a priority, declaring a halt to US support for the Saudi-led military campaign and demanding the war "has to end."Twelve aid groups, including Oxfam, Save the Children and Care International, have warned that 2.3 million children under the age of five in Yemen will go hungry this year if governments do not step up their funding on Monday.Muhsin Siddiquey, Oxfam's country director in Yemen, recounted a conversation with an 18-year-old woman, displaced by the conflict and living in a camp in northern Yemen."She said that the coronavirus pandemic gives us two cruel choices: either we stay home and we die from hunger, or we go out and then die from the disease," Siddiquey told Reuters.Official figures vastly underestimate the spread of Covid-19 in Yemen, according to the United Nations and aid agencies.In 2018 and 2019, the United Nations prevented famine due to a well-funded aid appeal, which included large donations from Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates and Kuwait.In 2020 the United Nations only received just over half the $3.4 billion it needed, which Lowcock said was largely due to smaller contributions from Gulf countries. He urged them to pledge generously for 2021 and pay quickly.The United Arab Emirates said on Friday it would pledge $230 million for 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/16-million-yemenis-going-hungry-5-million-on-the-brink-of-famine-un-aid-chief-101614406979753.html
27-02-2021||World||Use "any means necessary" to stop military coup: Kyaw Moe Tun to UN||Myanmar's UN envoy urged the United Nations to use "any means necessary" to stop a military coup there, making a surprise appeal on behalf of the ousted government as police cracked down on anti-junta protesters.The Southeast Asian country has been in crisis since the army seized power on Feb. 1 and detained elected leader Aung San Suu Kyi and much of her party leadership, alleging fraud in a November election her party had won in a landslide.Uncertainty has grown over Suu Kyi's whereabouts, as the independent Myanmar Now website on Friday quoted officials of her National League for Democracy (NLD) party as saying she had been moved this week from house arrest to an undisclosed location.The coup has brought hundreds of thousands of protesters to Myanmar's streets and drawn condemnation from Western countries, with some imposing limited sanctions.More protests were planned for Saturday, including a march in the main city of Yangon by members of ethnic minorities. But police were out in force early, detaining several people as they began to congregate, witnesses said.Also read: India has highest stake in Rohingyas' return to Myanmar: India at UNGAMyanmar's Ambassador Kyaw Moe Tun told the UN General Assembly he was speaking on behalf of Suu Kyi's government and appealed to the body "to use any means necessary to take action against the Myanmar military and to provide safety and security for the people"."We need further strongest possible action from the international community to immediately end the military coup, to stop oppressing the innocent people ... and to restore the democracy," he told the 193-member group, receiving applause as he finished.Kyaw Moe Tun appeared emotional as he read the statement on behalf of a group of elected politicians that he said represented the legitimate government.Delivering his final words in Burmese, the career diplomat raised the three-finger salute of pro-democracy protesters and announced "our cause will prevail".Reuters was not immediately able to contact the army for comment.Also read: Myanmar police crack down on protests; one woman killed: ReportsOpponents of the coup hailed Kyaw Moe Tun as a hero and flooded social media with messages of thanks."The people will win and the power-obsessed junta will fall," one protest leader, Ei Thinzar Maung, wrote on Facebook.UN special envoy on Myanmar Christine Schraner Burgener pushed the United Nations for a collective "clear signal in support of democracy", telling the General Assembly no country should recognise or legitimise the junta.China's envoy did not criticize the coup and said the situation was Myanmar's "internal affairs", saying it supported diplomacy by Southeast Asian countries, which protesters fear could give credibility to the ruling generals.Singapore said violence against unarmed civilians was inexcusable.'LOSS OF RIGHTS'A lawyer acting for Suu Kyi, Khin Maung Zaw, told Reuters he had also heard from NLD officials that she had been moved from her home in the capital, Naypyitaw, but could not confirm it. Authorities did not respond to a request for comment.The lawyer said he had been given no access to Suu Kyi ahead of her next hearing on Monday, adding: "I'm concerned that there will be a loss of rights to access to justice and access to legal counsel".Protesters have taken to the streets daily for over three weeks demanding the release of Suu Kyi, 75, and recognition of the result of last year's election.Riot police broke up protests in Yangon, the second city of Mandalay, Naypyitaw and other towns on Friday, firing rubber bullets, stun grenades and shots into the air in some places, witnesses said. Several people were hurt.Military chief General Min Aung Hlaing says authorities were using minimal force. Nevertheless, at least three protesters have died. The army says a policeman was also killed.At least 771 people are under detention or have outstanding charges that have been laid against them since the coup, according to Myanmar's Assistance Association for Political Prisoners.Suu Kyi, a Nobel Peace laureate and daughter of Myanmar's independence hero, spent nearly 15 years under house arrest under previous juntas. She faces charges of illegally importing six walkie-talkie radios and of violating a natural disaster law by breaching coronavirus protocols.The army has promised an election but not given a date. It has imposed a one-year state of emergency.The question of an election is at the centre of a diplomatic effort by the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN), of which Myanmar is a member. Indonesia has taken the lead, but coup opponents fear the efforts could legitimise the junta.ASEAN foreign ministers plan to hold a meeting on Myanmar soon, regional diplomats said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/use-any-means-necessary-to-stop-military-coup-kyaw-moe-tun-to-un-101614398043547.html
27-02-2021||World||'Religiosity fostering rise in terrorism': Pakistan experts||Terrorist attacks are on the rise in Pakistan amid a growing religiosity that has brought greater intolerance, prompting one expert to voice concern the country could be overwhelmed by religious extremism.Pakistani authorities are embracing strengthening religious belief among the population to bring the country closer together. But it's doing just the opposite, creating intolerance and opening up space for a creeping resurgence in terrorism, said Mohammad Amir Rana, executive director of the independent Pakistan Institute for Peace Studies."Unfortunately, instead of helping to inculcate better ethics and integrity, this phenomenon is encouraging a tunnel vision” that encourages violence, intolerance and hate, he wrote recently in a local newspaper. “Religiosity has begun to define the Pakistani citizenry.”Terrorism in Pakistan has spiked: In the past week alone, four vocational school instructors who advocated for women’s rights were traveling together when they were gunned down in a Pakistan border region. A Twitter death threat against Nobel laureate Malala Yousafzai attracted an avalanche of trolls. They heaped abuse on the young champion of girls education, who survived a Pakistani Taliban bullet to the head. A couple of men on a motorcycle opened fire on a police check-post not far from the Afghan border killing a young police constable.In recent weeks, at least a dozen military and paramilitary men have been killed in ambushes, attacks and operations against militant hideouts, mostly in the western border regions.A military spokesman this week said the rising violence is a response to an aggressive military assault on militant hideouts in regions bordering Afghanistan and the reunification of splintered and deeply violent anti-Pakistan terrorist groups, led by the Tehreek-e-Taliban. The group is driven by a radical religious ideology that espouses violence to enforce its extreme views.Gen. Babar Ifitkar said the reunified Pakistani Taliban have found a headquarters in eastern Afghanistan. He also accused hostile neighbor India of financing and outfitting a reunified Taliban, providing them with equipment like night vision goggles, improvised explosive devises and small weapons.India and Pakistan routinely trade allegations that the other is using militants to undermine stability and security at home.Security analyst and fellow at the Center for International Security and Cooperation, Asfandyar Mir, said the reunification of a splintered militancy is dangerous news for Pakistan."The reunification of various splinters into the (Tehreek-e-Taliban) central organization is a major development, which makes the group very dangerous," said Mir.The TTP claimed responsibility for the 2012 shooting of Yousafzai. Its former spokesman, Ehsanullah Ehsan, who mysteriously escaped Pakistan military custody to flee to the country, tweeted a promise that the Taliban would kill her if she returned home.Iftikar, in a briefing of foreign journalists this week, said Pakistani military personnel aided Ehsan's escape, without elaborating. He said the soldiers involved had been punished and efforts were being made to return Ehsan to custody.The government reached out to Twitter to shut down Ehsan's account after he threatened Yousafzai, although the military and government at first suggested it was a fake account.But Rana, the commentator, said the official silence that greeted the threatening tweet encouraged religious intolerance to echo in Pakistani society unchecked.“The problem is religiosity has very negative expression in Pakistan,” he said in an interview late Friday. “It hasn’t been utilized to promote the positive, inclusive tolerant religion.”Instead, successive Pakistani governments as well as its security establishments have exploited extreme religious ideologies to garner votes, appease political religious groups, or target enemies, he said.The 2018 general elections that brought cricket star-turned-politician Imran Khan to power was mired in allegations of support from the powerful military for hard-line religious groups.Those groups include the Tehreek-e-Labbaik party, whose single-point agenda is maintaining and propagating the country's deeply controversial blasphemy law. That law calls for the death penalty for anyone insulting Islam and is most often used to settle disputes. It often targets minorities, mostly Shiite Muslims, who makeup up about 15% of mostly Sunni Pakistan's 220 million people.Mir, the analyst, said the rise in militancy is a complicated conundrum. It has benefited from state policies that have been either supportive or ambivalent toward militancy as well as from sustained exposure of the region to violence. Most notable are the protracted war in neighboring Afghanistan and the simmering tensions between hostile neighbors India and Pakistan, two countries that possess a nuclear weapons' arsenal.Mir and Rana both pointed to the Pakistani government's failure to draw radical thinkers away from militant organizations, as groups that seemed at least briefly to eschew a violent path have returned to violence and rejoined the TTP.Iftikar said the military has stepped up assaults on the reunited Pakistani Taliban, pushing the militants to respond, but only targets they can manage, which are soft targets.But Mir said the reunited militants pose a greater threat.“With the addition of these powerful units, the TTP has major strength for operations across the former tribal areas, Swat, Baluchistan, and some in Punjab,” he said. “Taken together, they improve TTP’s ability to mount insurgent and mass-casualty attacks.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/religiosity-fostering-rise-in-terrorism-pakistan-experts-101614417274427.html
27-02-2021||World||Highlights of the Covid-19 relief bill advancing in Congress||The House passed a USD 1.9 trillion pandemic relief package early Saturday, 219-212, that includes USD 1,400 checks for most Americans and billions of dollars for schools, state and local governments and businesses.Republicans are overwhelmingly against the bill, raising concerns that the spending is vastly more than necessary and designed to advance policy priorities that go beyond helping Americans get through the pandemic. Democrats and President Joe Biden counter that a robust aid package is necessary to prevent a long and painful recovery from the pandemic.The Democrats' goal is to have Covid-19 relief approved by mid-March, when extra unemployment assistance and other pandemic aid expires. The Senate, which Democrats control with a tie-breaking vote from the vice president, will consider the bill next.A look at some highlights of the legislation:MORE CHECKSThe legislation provides a rebate that amounts to USD 1,400 for a single taxpayer, or USD 2,800 for a married couple that files jointly, plus USD 1,400 per dependent. Individuals earning up to USD 75,000 would get the full amount as would married couples with incomes up to USD 150,000.The size of the check would shrink for those making slightly more with a hard cut-off at USD 100,000 for individuals and USD 200,000 for married couples.Some Republicans want to cut the size of the rebate as well as the pool of Americans eligible for it, but Biden has insisted on USD 1,400 checks, saying “that's what the American people were promised.” The new round of checks will cost the government an estimated USD 422 billion.BIGGER TAX BREAK FOR HOUSEHOLDS WITH KIDSUnder current law, most taxpayers can reduce their federal income tax bill by up to USD 2,000 per child. The package moving through the House would increase the tax break to $3,000 for every child age 6 to 17 and USD 3,600 for every child under the age of 6.The legislation also calls for the payments to be delivered monthly instead of in one lump sum. If the secretary of the Treasury determines that isn't feasible, then the payments are to be made as frequently as possible.Also, families would get the full credit regardless of how little they make in a year, even just a few hundred dollars, leading to criticism that the changes would serve as a disincentive to work. Add in the USD 1,400 per individual checks and other items in the proposal, and the legislation would reduce the number of children living in poverty by more than half, according to an analysis from the Center on Poverty and Social Policy at Columbia University.AID TO STATES AND CITIESThe legislation would send USD 350 billion to state and local governments and tribal governments. While Republicans in Congress have largely objected to this initiative, Biden's push has some GOP support among governors and mayors.Many communities have taken hits to their tax base as millions of people have lost their jobs and as people stay home and avoid restaurants and stores to prevent getting Covid-19. Many areas have also seen expenses rise as they work to treat the sick and ramp up vaccinations.But the impact varies from state to state and from town to town. Critics say the funding is not appropriately targeted and is far more than necessary with billions of dollars allocated last spring to states and communities still unspent.AID TO SCHOOLSThe bill calls for USD 130 billion in additional help to schools for students in kindergarten through 12th grade. The money would be used to reduce class sizes and modify classrooms to enhance social distancing, install ventilation systems and purchase personal protective equipment. The money could also be used to increase the hiring of nurses, counselors and to provide summer school.Spending for colleges and universities would be boosted by USD 40 billion, with the money used to defray an institution's pandemic-related expenses and to provide emergency aid to students to cover expenses such as food and housing and computer equipment.AID TO BUSINESSESThe bill provides another round of relief for airlines and eligible contractors, USD 15 billion, so long as they refrain from furloughing workers or cutting pay through September. It's the third round of support for airlines.A new program for restaurants and bars hurt by the pandemic would receive USD 25 billion. The grants provide up to $10 million per entity with a limit of USD 5 million per physical location. The grants can be used to cover payroll, rent, utilities and other operational expenses.The bill also provides another USD 7.25 billion for the Paycheck Protection Program, a tiny fraction of what was allocated in previous legislation. The loans are designed to help borrowers meet their payroll and operating costs and can potentially be forgiven.AID TO THE UNEMPLOYEDExpanded unemployment benefits from the federal government would be extended, with an increase from USD 300 a week to USD 400 a week. That's on top of what beneficiaries are getting through their state unemployment insurance program.HEALTH CAREThe bill provides money for key elements of the Biden administration's Covid-19 response, while also trying to advance longstanding Democratic priorities like increasing coverage under the Obama-era Affordable Care Act.On “Obamacare,” it dangles a fiscal carrot in front of a dozen states, mainly in the South, that have not yet taken up the law's Medicaid expansion to cover more low-income adults.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/highlights-of-the-covid-19-relief-bill-advancing-in-congress-101614416716821.html
27-02-2021||World||'Cannot bury the dead': Amnesty report describes Axum massacre in Ethiopia||Soldiers from Eritrea systematically killed “many hundreds” of people, the large majority men, in a massacre late November in the Ethiopian city of Axum in the Tigray region, Amnesty International said Friday. The new report echoed the findings of an Associated Press story last week and cited more than 40 witnesses.As pressure on Ethiopia increased over what might be the deadliest massacre of the Tigray conflict, the prime minister’s office announced that “humanitarian agencies have now been provided unfettered access to aid in the region.” It added that the government “welcomes international technical assistance to undertake the investigations (into alleged abuses) as well as invites the potential to collaborate on joint investigations.”And yet the government alleged the Amnesty report relied on “scanty information," and said the human rights group should have visited the Tigray region. Amnesty said it requested permission from the government in December and never received a response.“As you know, no independent human rights monitors have been allowed in the region since the conflict began,” spokesman Conor Fortune said in an email to the AP.Crucially, the head of the government-established Ethiopian Human Rights Commission, Daniel Bekele, says the Amnesty findings “should be taken very seriously.” The commission's own preliminary findings “indicate the killing of an as yet unknown number of civilians by Eritrean soldiers” in Axum, its statement said.The Amnesty report describes the soldiers gunning down civilians as they fled, lining up men and shooting them in the back, rounding up “hundreds, if not thousands” of men for beatings and refusing to allow those grieving to bury the dead.Over a period of about 24 hours, “Eritrean soldiers deliberately shot civilians on the street and carried out systematic house-to-house searches, extrajudicially executing men and boys," the report released early Friday says. "The massacre was carried out in retaliation for an earlier attack by a small number of local militiamen, joined by local residents armed with sticks and stones.”The “mass execution” of Axum civilians by Eritrean troops may amount to crimes against humanity, the report says, and it calls for a United Nations-led international investigation and full access to Tigray for human rights groups, journalists and humanitarian workers. The region has been largely cut off since fighting began in early November.Ethiopia’s federal government has denied the presence of soldiers from neighboring Eritrea, long an enemy of the Tigray region’s now-fugitive leaders, and Eritrea’s government dismissed the AP story on the Axum massacre as “outrageous lies.” Eritrea's information minister, Yemane Gebremeskel, on Friday said his country “is outraged and categorically rejects the preposterous accusations” in the Amnesty report.But even senior members of the Ethiopia-appointed interim government in Tigray have acknowledged the Eritrean soldiers’ presence and allegations of widespread looting and killing.Ethiopia said the “alleged incident” in Axum “will have to be thoroughly investigated.”And Ethiopia's ambassador to Belgium, Hirut Zemene, told a webinar on Thursday that the alleged massacre in November was a “very highly unlikely scenario” and “we suspect it's a very, very crazy idea.”No one knows how many thousands of civilians have been killed in the conflict between Ethiopian and allied forces and those of the Tigray regional government, which had long dominated Ethiopia’s government before Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed took office in 2018. Humanitarian officials have warned that a growing number of people might be starving to death as access, while improving, remains restricted.“Hostilities must cease immediately,” the European Union foreign policy chief Josep Borrell said in a statement in response to the Amnesty International report, adding that “the level of suffering endured by civilians, including children, is appalling."The presence of Eritrean soldiers in Tigray has brought some alarm. The United States has repeatedly urged Eritrea to withdraw its soldiers and cited credible reports of “grave” human rights abuses. On Wednesday it asked, “Does the Eritrean military have sufficient control over its troops to prevent them from committing human rights abuses?”Witnesses of the massacre in Axum told Amnesty International that Ethiopian and Eritrean soldiers jointly took control of the city but the Eritreans carried out the killings and then conducted house-to-house raids for men and teenage boys.Bodies were left strewn in the streets after the events of Nov. 28 and 29, witnesses said.“The next day, they did not allow us to pick the dead. The Eritrean soldiers said you cannot bury the dead before our dead soldiers are buried,” one woman told Amnesty International. With hospitals looted or health workers having fled, some witnesses said a number of people died from their wounds because of lack of care.“Gathering the bodies and carrying out the funerals took days. Most of the dead appear to have been buried on 30 November, but witnesses said that people found many additional bodies in the days that followed,” the new report says.After obtaining permission from Ethiopian soldiers to bury the dead, witnesses said they feared the killings would resume any moment, even as they piled bodies onto horse-drawn carts and took them to churches for burial, at times in mass graves.The AP spoke with a deacon at one church, the Church of St. Mary of Zion, who said he helped count the bodies, gathered victims’ identity cards and assisted with burials. He believes some 800 people were killed that weekend around the city.After being left exposed for a day or more, the bodies had begun to rot, further traumatizing families and those who gathered to help.The new report says satellite imagery shows newly “disturbed soil” beside churches.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/cannot-bury-the-dead-amnesty-report-describes-axum-massacre-in-ethiopia-101614415971021.html
27-02-2021||World||Indian American Arora Akanksha, 34, running for UN chief||Arora Akanksha, a 34-year-old staff member who works as an audit coordinator for the United Nations Development Program (UNDP), has announced her candidacy for UN secretary-general and is set to be the only candidate running against incumbent António Guterres. Although she has no national backing for her candidacy yet, Akanksha launched her grass-roots campaign called UNOW on Twitter and other social media platforms on February 9.Akanksha said that her opponent Guterres has failed as the secretary general of the United Nations. “He’s failed as a leader in reforming the institution. He’s failed as a leader to refugees; he was leading the refugee agency before coming here, so he knows the plight of refugees. He knows their pain, hope, better than most of us, because he served them. Yet when he came, he didn’t make any decision to prioritise resources to them,” she said.Who is Arora Akanksha?Born in the northern state of Haryana, Akanksha moved with her family to Saudi Arabia when she was six years old. She studied at York University in Toronto, Canada, where she received a bachelor’s degree in administrative studies. She also has a master’s degree in public administration from Columbia University. Akanksha also holds an Overseas Citizenship Of India (OCI) and a Canadian passport, although she hasn’t asked either country for an official endorsement.Read more: US senator bats for including India in Trans-Pacific PartnershipShe was recruited by the UN to help with the financial reforms of the organisation and was also responsible for updating financial regulations and rules of the UN as well as managing the internal and external audits at UNDP.‘United Nations is risk-averse’Akanksha, who is self-financing her campaign according to one of her campaign videos, said that during her work at the UN she has become increasingly disillusioned with the inability of the UN to create change and the organisation is not fulfilling its original mission as stated in the UN Charter.“I had been part of the reforms team for two years, and I had access to the upper echelon of our leadership,” Akanksha said, adding that she saw “how they are so risk-averse…”‘Half of the world population is under 30’Despite her lack of experience in foreign and government affairs, Akanksha is unafraid as she feels that her age will play to her advantage. “I think something we have to realise is half of the world population is under 30 right now,” she said.“So you would want a leader who knows what it’s like to be in that age group to be suffering, not having the economic freedom to do everything you want, not having the ability to get the opportunities that you deserve. If you want to see different results, you have to do things differently,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/haryana-woman-under-34-arora-akanksha-indian-american-running-for-un-chief-101614412913070.html
27-02-2021||World||Myanmar police crack down on protests; one woman killed: Reports||Police cracked down in Myanmar on Saturday to prevent opponents of military rule gathering and one woman was shot and killed, media reported, after the country's U.N. envoy urged the United Nations to use "any means necessary" to stop a Feb. 1 coup.Myanmar has been in turmoil since the army seized power and detained elected leader Aung San Suu Kyi and much of her party leadership, alleging fraud in a November election her party won in a landslide.Uncertainty has grown over Suu Kyi's whereabouts, as the independent Myanmar Now website on Friday quoted officials of her National League for Democracy (NLD) party as saying she had been moved this week from house arrest to an undisclosed location.The coup has brought hundreds of thousands of protesters to Myanmar's streets and drawn condemnation from Western countries, with some imposing limited sanctions.Police were out in force in the main city of Yangon and elsewhere on Saturday, taking up positions at usual protest sites and detaining people as they congregated, witnesses said. Several media workers were detained.Three domestic media outlets said a woman was shot and killed in the central town of Monwya. Police there were not immediately available for comment.Earlier, a protester in the town said police had fired water cannon as they surrounded a crowd."They used water cannon against peaceful protesters - they shouldn't treat people like that," Aye Aye Tint told Reuters from the town.In Yangon, despite the police presence, people came out to chant and sing, then scatter into side streets as police advanced, firing tear gas, setting off stun grenades and firing guns into the air, witnesses said.Similar scenes played out in the second city of Mandalay and several other towns, including Dawei in the south, witnesses and media said.Among those detained at a Mandalay protest was Win Mya Mya, one of only two Muslim members of parliament for the NLD, media said.Junta leader General Min Aung Hlaing has said authorities were using minimal force. Nevertheless, at least three protesters have died in the weeks of turmoil. The army says a policeman was also killed.'PREVAIL'At the U.N. General Assembly, Myanmar's Ambassador Kyaw Moe Tun said he was speaking on behalf of Suu Kyi's government and appealed for "any means necessary to take action against the Myanmar military and to provide safety and security for the people"."We need further strongest possible action from the international community to immediately end the military coup ... and to restore the democracy," he said.Kyaw Moe Tun appeared emotional as he read the statement on behalf of a group of elected politicians that he said represented the legitimate government.Delivering his final words in Burmese, the career diplomat raised the three-finger salute of pro-democracy protesters and announced, "Our cause will prevail."Reuters was not immediately able to contact the army for comment.Coup opponents hailed Kyaw Moe Tun as a hero and flooded social media with messages of thanks. U.N. Special Rapporteur Tom Andrews said he was overwhelmed as he watched the ambassador's "act of courage"."It's time for the world to answer that courageous call with action," Andrews said on Twitter.China's envoy did not criticise the coup and said the situation was part of Myanmar's "internal affairs". China supported diplomacy by southeast Asian countries, he said.But in more bad news for the generals who have traditionally shrugged off outside pressure, Australia's Woodside Petroleum Ltd said it was cutting its presence in Myanmar over concern about rights violations and violence by security forces."Woodside supports the people of Myanmar and we hope to see a peaceful journey to democracy," the company said.'LOSS OF RIGHTS'A lawyer for Suu Kyi, Khin Maung Zaw, told Reuters he had also heard that she had been moved from her home in the capital, Naypyitaw, but could not confirm it. Authorities did not respond to a request for comment.The lawyer said he had been given no access to Suu Kyi ahead of her next hearing on Monday and he was concerned about her access to justice and legal counsel.Nobel Peace laureate Suu Kyi, 75, spent nearly 15 years under house arrest during military rule. She faces charges of illegally importing six walkie-talkie radios and of violating a natural disaster law by breaching coronavirus protocols.The army has promised an election but not given a date. It has imposed a one-year state of emergency.The question of an election is at the centre of a diplomatic effort by the Association of Southeast Asian Nations, of which Myanmar is a member.Indonesia has taken the lead but coup opponents fear the effort could legitimise the junta and what they see as its bid to annul the November election.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/myanmar-police-crack-down-on-protests-one-woman-killed-reports-101614415858807.html
27-02-2021||World||New Zealand's largest city Auckland back under coronavirus lockdown||New Zealand's Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern said on Saturday that the country's biggest city, Auckland, will go into a seven-day lockdown from early morning on Sunday after a new local case of the coronavirus of unknown origin emerged.This comes two weeks after Auckland's nearly 2 million residents were plunged into a snap three-day lockdown when a family of three were diagnosed with the more transmissible UK variant of the new coronavirus that causes Covid-19.Health officials, who could not immediately confirm how the person got infected, said genome sequencing of the new infection was under way.The patient developed symptoms on Tuesday and is regarded as having been potentially infectious since Sunday, officials said. The person has visited several public venues during that period."Based on this, we are in the unfortunate but necessary position to protect Aucklanders again," Ardern said, announcing the lockdown.Health authorities were trying to find out whether the new case was linked to the earlier February cluster, now at 12 infections.The lockdown, with Level 3 restrictions, will allow people to leave home only for essential shopping and essential work, Ardern said. Public venues will remain closed. Restrictions in the rest of the country will be tightened to Level 2 restrictions, including limits on public gatherings.New Zealand, one of the most successful developed nations in controlling the spread of the pandemic, has seen just over 2,000 cases of the coronavirus since the start of the pandemic.A marquee Twenty20 cricket clash in Auckland between New Zealand and Australia, scheduled for Friday, will be played in Wellington without crowds, said New Zealand Cricket.The new restrictions also complicated the America's Cup Event yacht race scheduled to start on March 6 in Auckland's harbour. America's Cup Event said on Twitter it was working "through the implications."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/new-zealand-s-largest-city-auckland-back-under-coronavirus-lockdown-101614415351231.html
27-02-2021||World||'Will fight till we win': Myanmar protesters undeterred despite facing rubber bullets at Yangon demonstration||Myanmar police fired rubber bullets to disperse protesters in Yangon on Saturday, after the country's ambassador to the United Nations broke ranks to make an emotional plea for action against the military junta.The country has been shaken by a wave of pro-democracy protests since a military coup toppled civilian leader Aung San Suu Kyi on February 1.Authorities have gradually ramped up the use of force to suppress dissent, using tear gas, water cannon and rubber bullets to disperse some protests. Live rounds have been used in isolated cases.In Myanmar's biggest city Yangon on Saturday, police used rubber bullets to disperse a demonstration at Myaynigone junction, the site of an hours-long standoff the day before."What are the police doing? They are protecting a crazy dictator," the protesters chanted as they were chased away by the police.Hundreds of ethnic Mon protesters had gathered there to commemorate Mon National Day, joined by other ethnic minority groups to protest against the coup.They scattered into smaller residential streets and started building makeshift barricades out of barbed wire and tables to stop the police. Many wore hard hats and gas masks, wielding homemade shields for protection.At least 15 people were arrested, a police official confirmed.Local reporters broadcast the chaotic scenes live on Facebook, including the moments when the shots rang out, which AFP reporters on the ground also witnessed."We will try to find another way to protest -- of course, we are afraid of their crackdown," said protester Moe Moe, 23, who used a pseudonym."We want to fight until we win."Three journalists were among those detained -- an Associated Press photographer, a video journalist from Myanmar Now, and a photographer from the Myanmar Pressphoto Agency.Also read: Myanmar's UN envoy dramatically opposes coup in his country'This revolution must win'The crackdown in Yangon came after Myanmar's ambassador to the United Nations broke ranks and made an emotional plea Friday to the international community."We need... the strongest possible action from the international community to immediately end the military coup, to stop oppressing the innocent people, to return the state power to the people, and to restore the democracy," Kyaw Moe Tun pleaded, his voice cracking with emotion.Briefly speaking in Burmese, he pleaded with his "brothers and sisters" to keep fighting to end military rule."This revolution must win," he said, flashing at the end the three-finger salute that has become a symbol of resistance against the junta.His pro-democracy appeal broke from the current rulers of Myanmar -- an extremely rare occurrence for a UN representative -- and was met with applause in the chamber.The junta has repeatedly justified its seizure of power by alleging widespread electoral fraud in the November elections, which Suu Kyi's party had won in a landslide, and promised fresh polls in a year.Also read: Myanmar protesters injured as police escalate use of forceArmy chief General Min Aung Hlaing now holds legislative, executive and judicial powers in Myanmar -- effectively halting the country's 10-year experiment with democracy.Suu Kyi, who has not been publicly seen since she was detained, is now facing two charges for having unregistered walkie-talkies in her residence and breaking coronavirus rules.While the Nobel laureate is expected to have a hearing on Monday, her lawyer has still not been able to make contact with her.More than 770 people have been arrested, charged and sentenced since the February 1 putsch, according to the Assistance Association for Political Prisoners monitoring group, with some 680 still behind bars.But protests have continued apace across Myanmar, from the remote mountain ranges of northern Chin state to the southern coastal city Dawei.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/myanmar-cops-fire-rubber-bullets-on-pro-democracy-protesters-in-yangon-101614408763408.html
27-02-2021||World||On wage policy, Australian oppn blames govt for harrying workers' savings||Australia’s government is considering letting employees opt for a pay rise over higher pension contributions, prompting the Labour opposition to accuse it of raiding workers’ savings to cover for a failed wages policy.The government is seeking greater flexibility to allow workers to be able to choose increased take-home pay over a mandatory superannuation increase, the Financial Review reported. It’s also looking at the possibility of letting them tap their pension savings for expenses such as housing down payments as part of efforts to better balance working and retirement incomes, the newspaper said.The report drew a sharp rebuke from the opposition. The government is “blaming Australia’s world class superannuation system for its wages failure,” Labour spokesman Stephen Jones said in a statement Saturday. “Undermining workers savings for tomorrow to fix your political problems of today is not going to help wages grow.”Also read: Australia moves closer to pre-pandemic life, Covid-19 'reined in' for nowAlso read: Australian MPs to okay changes to new pay-for-news lawFirms currently pay 9.5% of a worker’s salary into a pension fund under a superannuation system that’s designed to ease the burden of an aging population on the government’s budget. From July this year, that’s legislated to climb in 0.5 percentage point annual increments to 12% by 2025.Australian wages have stagnated in recent years as workers -- often carrying high debt loads -- worry more about job security than fatter pay packets. Prior to the pandemic, policy makers were trying to tighten the labour market sufficiently to drive salary gains.Yet with the economy recovering from its first recession since just before superannuation was introduced in 1992, concerns are rising that firms will be unable to afford the extra burden and instead choose not to hire more staff.Australia’s right-of-centre government has been emboldened to try to tinker with the superannuation system after a positive public response to its Covid-19 measure that allowed people to withdraw up to A$20,000 ($15,400) from their pension savings.Labour and the superannuation industry are opposing any pause or failure to proceed with the increase in contributions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/on-wage-policy-australian-oppn-blames-govt-for-harrying-workers-savings-101614397858293.html
27-02-2021||World||Covid-19: Canada to receive 500,000 doses of SII’s Covishield vaccine on March 3||The first 500,000 doses of AstraZeneca’s Covid-19 vaccine manufactured by the Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) will arrive in Canada on March 3, less than a week after Covishield was given emergency use authorisation (EUA) for adults by the country’s public health authorities on Friday.Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau said, “I want to express my appreciation for the support and partnership of the Indian government in fighting Covid-19, in helping secure these does for Canadians.”A total of two million doses - including the first batch of 500,000 to be sent across on March 3 - will be shipped from India to Canada by mid-May. They will first arrive in Toronto. SII’s partner in this venture is Verity Pharmaceuticals, located in the Greater Toronto Area suburb of Mississauga.The vaccine was jointly developed by AstraZeneca and experts at University of Oxford.India’s high commissioner to Ottawa, Ajay Bisaria, has expressed delight over the green signal to the delivery of the coronavirus vaccines, saying, “This is fulfilling the assurance made by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to Prime Minister Trudeau when the latter called him on February 10 with a request for vaccines for Canada.”Canada is the first Western nation and the only G7 country to receive vaccines from India under the government’s “Vaccine Maitri” initiative.The AstraZeneca shot is the third vaccine to be cleared for use in Canada, after Pfizer-BionTech and Moderna. Canada will receive a total of 22 million doses of the AstraZeneca inoculation, which includes the consignment from India.The North American country will also receive up to 1.9 million doses through the global vaccine-sharing initiative known as Covax by the end of June, according to an AP report.Canadian health regulators noted that there were “no important safety concerns and the vaccine was well tolerated by participants”, in making their decision.Trudeau had called Modi earlier this month with the request and the Indian PM then took to Twitter to say that he “was happy to receive a call from my friend, @JustinTrudeau” and added, “Assured him that India would do its best to facilitate supplies of Covid vaccines sought by Canada.” Later, Trudeau responded on Twitter that he had a “good discussion” with Modi “on many important issues” and they had “agreed to stay in touch”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-canada-to-receive-500-000-doses-of-sii-s-covishield-vaccine-on-march-3-101614414007732.html
27-02-2021||World||Philippines extends partial coronavirus curbs in capital until March end||Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte has extended partial coronavirus curbs in the capital until the end of March, as the country awaits the arrival of vaccines, the presidential spokesman said on Saturday.With southeast Asia's second-highest tally of infections and deaths, the Philippines has suffered lengthy, strict lockdowns in Manila and provinces, hitting an economy that was among Asia's fastest growing before the pandemic.Curbs will stay for another month in Manila, which accounts for 40% of national economic output, the spokesman, Harry Roque, said in a statement. Also under partial curbs are Duterte's southern home city of Davao, and the northern city of Baguio.The curbs limit operations of businesses and public transport.The decision follows a report of 2,651 new virus infections, the highest daily increase in more than four months.Despite calls to further re-open the economy, the firebrand leader has pledged to maintain curbs in the virus epicentre of Manila until mass vaccinations begin.The Philippines will be the last regional nation to get its first shipment of vaccines, comprising 600,000 doses of Sinovac Biotech's vaccines donated by China, to be delivered on Sunday, and earmarked for healthcare workers and troops.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/philippines-extends-partial-coronavirus-curbs-in-capital-until-march-end-101614408058923.html
27-02-2021||World||Mexican migrants need protection while they wait: Doctors without borders' head||The processing of asylum seekers waiting to enter the United States expanded to a third border crossing Friday, even as nongovernmental organizations called for more effort to protect the thousands still in Mexican border cities.A week after the US government began processing those with active cases made to wait in Mexico during the Trump administration at a border crossing between Tijuana and San Diego, the process expanded this week to the Matamoros-Brownsville crossing and Friday to Ciudad Juarez-El Paso.A camp of migrants on the banks of the Rio Grande in Matamoros was a particular priority for the Biden administration and Mexico. It holds about 750 people now, but the city is dangerous and camp residents were hard hit by frigid winter weather that affected Texas and northern Mexico this month.On Friday, the second day of processing there, 100 asylum-seekers crossed from Matamoros. On Thursday, about two dozen were processed.Also read: US to admit asylum seekers from hard-hit camp at Texas borderAlso read: Biden begins dismantling Trump's 'Remain in Mexico' asylum policyThe acceleration came as Mexico Foreign Affairs Secretary Marcelo Ebrard met virtually with his counterpart US Secretary of State Antony Blinken. Mexico also announced late Friday that President Andrés Manuel López Obrador and President Joe Biden would hold their first bilateral meeting Monday.Mexico’s Foreign Affairs ministry said in a statement that among the topics to be discussed will be “the mechanisms for cooperation to address the structural causes of migration in northern Central America and southern Mexico.” They also plan to discuss strategies to deal with the Covid-19 pandemic and opportunities for economic recovery.The organization Doctors Without Borders, which works along the migratory routes through Central America and Mexico, warned Friday that there are places where migrants remain at great risk.The great majority of the 25,000 asylum seekers with active cases who were forced to wait out the process in Mexico under Trump’s so-called “Remain in Mexico” program, still have weeks or months of waiting ahead. The situation is further complicated by the Covid-19 pandemic, which has reduced capacity at shelters that provide a degree of safety for migrants.Sergio Martínez, head of Doctors Without Borders in Mexico, called on both governments to remember that the migrants need protection while they wait, noting growing violence in border cities, including Piedras Negras and Nuevo Laredo.“What we want to do from (Doctors Without Borders) is push the Mexican government to take the necessary steps to protect this population, who are its responsibility while they are in Mexican territory,” he said. The US government must also collaborate since it created the situation, he added.In September and October 2019, before the pandemic, the organization recorded that in cities like Nuevo Laredo three out of four migrants they registered said they had been kidnapped in the previous 10 days. Once the pandemic began they were not able to continue the level of monitoring, but believe the security risks have only grown as some local authorities have closed shelters citing public health concerns, leaving migrants without safe spaces.Matamoros “is a drop in the bucket, the tip of the iceberg, and what really concerns us more are the other places on the border that don’t have even the protection of media attention” and where organized crime continues preying on migrants, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/mexican-migrants-need-protection-while-they-wait-doctors-without-borders-head-101614396122333.html
27-02-2021||World||US implicates Saudi crown prince in Khashoggi's killing: Timeline of the murder||A US intelligence report released on Friday said Saudi Arabia's de facto ruler, Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, approved an operation to capture or kill journalist Jamal Khashoggi in 2018. "We assess that Saudi Arabia's Crown Prince Muhammad bin Salman approved an operation in Istanbul, Turkey to capture or kill Saudi journalist Jamal Khashoggi," the US office of the director of National Intelligence said in the four-page report.Khashoggi, a US resident who wrote opinion columns for the Washington Post critical of the 35-year-old crown prince’s policies, was killed and dismembered by a team of operatives linked to Salman in the kingdom's consulate in Istanbul in 2018.US President Joe Biden said he told Saudi King Salman that Saudi Arabia has to tackle human rights abuses as a precondition to dealing with America. "(I) made it clear to him that the rules are changing and we're going to be announcing significant changes today and on Monday," Biden said on Spanish language network Univision.The Saudi government, which has denied any involvement by the crown prince, rejected the US report's findings and repeated its previous statements that Khashoggi's killing was a heinous crime by a rogue group.Here is a timeline:1. Khashoggi had left Saudi Arabia in June 2017 for Washington, DC, where he hoped to continue writing amid a crackdown on dissent in his country.2. The 59-year-old was a Saudi journalist living in self-imposed exile in Virginia. The veteran journalist was told by Saudi Arabia's ambassador to the US to go to the kingdom's Istanbul consulate if he wanted to obtain documents for his forthcoming wedding to a Turkish woman, Hatice Cengiz.3. On October 2, 2018, Khashoggi went to the Saudi consulate in Istanbul. He was accompanied by Cengiz – who waited outside the consulate.Also read | After Khashoggi report, US slaps sanctions against 76 Saudi individuals4. He was strangled and his body dismembered within minutes of entering the building by a 15-member team allegedly sent from Riyadh under the direction of a top aide to Prince Mohammed, Saud al-Qahtani. His remains have not been found.5. The Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) had quickly concluded that Prince Mohammed ordered the assassination but former US president Donald Trump refused to release the report.Also read | On secret tape, Saudi journalist Jamal Khashoggi killers heard saying ‘will body, hips fit in bag’6. Riyadh initially issued conflicting stories about his disappearance but eventually admitted that Khashoggi was killed in what it called a "rogue" extradition operation gone wrong.7. Twenty-one men were arrested in the killing and five senior officials, including Asiri and Saud al-Qahtani, a senior aide of the prince, were fired.8. Some of those involved in the murder were from the Saudi Center for Studies and Media Affairs, then led by Qahtani, "who claimed publicly in mid-2018 that he did not make decisions without the Crown Prince's approval”, the US report noted.9. In January 2019, 11 people were put on trial behind closed doors. Five were given death sentences, which were commuted to 20 years in prison after they were forgiven by Khashoggi’s family, while three others were given jail terms. Asiri was acquitted "due to insufficient evidence" while Qahtani was investigated but not charged.10. Khashoggi’s family had filed a federal lawsuit in October last year accusing the crown prince of personally ordering his brutal execution in order to silence the high-profile government critic. The lawsuit was filed in Washington, DC, on behalf of Cengiz and Democracy for the Arab World Now or DAWN. DAWN is the human rights organisation that Khashoggi founded shortly before his death. Cengiz on Friday tweeted “#justiceforjamal” after the release of a declassified US intelligence report on his death.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-implicates-saudi-crown-prince-in-khashoggi-s-killing-timeline-of-the-murder-101614408595394.html
27-02-2021||World||Would consider limits on who gets Covid-19 relief checks: Joe Biden to congressional Democrats||President Joe Biden told congressional Democrats on Wednesday he would not back down on including $1,400 checks for struggling Americans in his Covid-19 relief plan but would consider tighter limits on who gets them, lawmakers and aides said.Biden held a conference call with House of Representatives Democrats and talked with Democratic senators at the White House as the party prepared to use a procedural maneuver to push Biden's $1.9 trillion coronavirus relief package through without Republican votes if necessary."We did have a conversation about the direct payments and how those might be modified in a way to ensure they're targeted," Senator Chris Coons, a Democrat from Biden's home state of Delaware, said as he left the White House Wednesday morning."But President Biden was clear with us and with our caucus yesterday, he's not going to forget the middle class, he's not going to walk back from a real commitment."Biden has made addressing the heavy human and economic toll of the coronavirus pandemic, which has killed more than 447,000 Americans and thrown millions out of work, a key focus of the early weeks of his administration.The president told House Democrats in a conference call that he does not want to begin his presidency with a broken promise on delivering relief, said a House Democratic aide.Biden's proposal mirrors income requirements in previous Covid-19 bills that would provide payments to individuals making up to $75,000, and couples $150,000, a year.When White House Press Secretary Jen Paski on Tuesday was asked to draw some lines on where Biden stood on the stimulus checks, she offered an example of a couple, a nurse and a teacher, making $120,000 and said under the Biden plan, they would get a stimulus check, but not under a plan by Republican senators.Congressional Democrats on Tuesday took their first steps to fast-track the massive aid package, voting in both chambers to open debate on a spending resolution that would give them a legislative tool called "reconciliation" to pass the relief without Republican support.Biden met a group of 10 moderate Republican senators on Monday and had said he wanted to garner bipartisan support for his plan, which includes more money for vaccines and additional unemployment benefits.But Republicans overall have balked at the price tag and pointed to the $4 trillion in Covid-19 aid passed last year.Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer said the Democrats' strategy does not preclude bipartisan cooperation, but vowed a sweeping measure that includes assistance for the unemployed, businesses, housing, schools, state and local governments and vaccine distribution.But Senate Republican Leader Mitch McConnell criticized the Democrats' decision to press ahead with a framework that allows the eventual Covid-19 relief bill to pass with a simple majority, calling it a "partisan jam"."The new president talks a lot about unity, but his White House staff and congressional leadership are working with a different playbook," McConnell said on the Senate floor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/would-consider-limits-on-who-gets-covid-19-relief-checks-joe-biden-to-congressional-democrats-101614407772480.html
27-02-2021||World||Former president Trump continues to be a force to be reckoned with, CPAC shows||A conference dedicated to the future of the conservative movement turned into an ode to Donald Trump as speakers declared their fealty to the former president and attendees posed for selfies with a golden statue of his likeness.As the Republican Party grapples with deep divisions over the extent to which they should embrace Trump after losing the White House and both chambers of Congress, those gathered at the annual Conservative Political Action Conference Friday made clear they are not ready to move on from the former president — or from his baseless charges that the November election was rigged against him.“Donald J. Trump ain’t going anywhere,” said Texas Sen. Ted Cruz, one of several potential 2024 presidential contenders who spoke at the event, being held this year in Orlando to bypass COVID-19 restrictions.Trump on Sunday will be making his first post-presidential appearance at the conference, and aides say he will use the speech to reassert his power.The program underscored the split raging within the GOP, as many establishment voices argue the party must move on from Trump to win back the suburban voters who abandoned them in November, putting President Joe Biden in the White House. Senate Republican leader Mitch McConnell and others worry Trump will undermine the party’s political future if he and his conspiracy theories continue to dominate Republican politics.But at the conference, speakers continued to fan disinformation and conspiracy theories about the 2020 election, with panels dedicated to amplifying false claims of mass voter fraud that have been dismissed by the courts, state election officials and Trump’s own administration.Indeed, Sen. Josh Hawley, R-Mo., another potential 2024 hopeful, drew among the loudest applause and a standing ovation when he bragged about challenging the election certification on Jan. 6 despite the storming of the Capitol building by Trump supporters trying to halt the process.“I thought it was an important stand to take," he said.Others argued the party would lose if it turned its back on Trump and alienated the working-class voters drawn to his populist message.“We cannot — we will not — go back to the days of the failed Republican establishment of yesteryear,” said Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis, who outlined a new Trumpian GOP agenda focused on restrictive immigration policies, opposition to China and limiting military engagement.“We will not win the future by trying to go back to where the Republican Party used to be,” echoed Florida Sen. Rick Scott, who chairs the fundraising committee tasked with electing Republicans to the Senate. “If we do, we will lose the working base that President Trump so animated. We’re going to lose elections across the country, and ultimately we’re going to lose our nation."Scott is dismissing pressure on him to “mediate between warring factions on the right” or “mediate the war of words between the party leaders." He has refused to take sides in the bitter ongoing fight between Trump and McConnell, who blamed Trump for inciting the deadly Capitol riot but ultimately voted to acquit him at his impeachment trial earlier this month.“I’m not going to mediate anything," he said, criticizing those who “prefer to fan the flames of a civil war on our side” as “foolish” and “ridiculous."But in speeches throughout the day, the GOP turmoil was front and center. Trump’s eldest son, Donald Trump Jr., lit into into Wyoming Rep. Liz Cheney, the No. 3 House Republican, who has faced tremendous backlash for her vote to impeach Trump for inciting the Capitol riot.And as the program was wrapping up, Trump issued a statement endorsing Max Miller, a former staffer who has now launched a campaign challenging Ohio Rep. Anthony Gonzalez, another Republican who voted in favor of impeachment.Kimberly Guilfoyle, a former Fox News Channel host and Donald Trump Jr.'s girlfriend, offered a pointed message to those who stand in opposition to the former president, who will not arrive at the conference until Sunday but was present in spirit in the form of a large golden statue erected in a merchandise show booth, where attendees could pose for pictures with it.“We bid a farewell to the weak-kneed, the spineless and the cowards that are posing in DC pretending that they’re working for the people,” she said. “Let’s send them a pink slip straight from CPAC.”Trump Jr., who labeled the conference “TPAC” in honor of his father, hyped the return of his father and the “Make America Great Again” platform to the spotlight.“I imagine it will not be what we call a ‘low-energy’ speech," he said. “And I assure you that it will solidify Donald Trump and all of your feelings about the MAGA movement as the future of the Republican Party.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/former-president-trump-continues-to-be-a-force-to-be-reckoned-with-cpac-shows-101614403342252.html
27-02-2021||World||Winter Olympics part of China's 'communist propaganda campaign': Nikki Haley||Accusing China of "horrific" human rights abuses, some top Republican leaders, including Indian American Nikki Haley, have demanded that the US boycott the 2022 Winter Olympics in Beijing and called on the International Olympic Committee to select a new site for the event.The White House, however, said that no decision has been taken yet on the demands of the leaders.It is no secret that China wants to use the Winter Olympics as part of its "massive communist propaganda campaign", Haley, a former US ambassador to the UN, said on Friday as she launched a campaign to demand President Joe Biden announce a boycott of the games."We cannot sit back and watch China use the Olympics to cover up its horrific human rights abuses," the Republican leader said.Senator Rick Scott in a letter to President Joe Biden has requested a meeting to discuss the "horrific human rights atrocities" occurring across China and called for the International Olympic Committee (IOC) to select a new site for the 2022 Winter Olympics.Haley said that "we need to stand up to China, and we need to do it now. That's why I’m asking you to join me and sign our petition calling on President Biden to boycott the 2022 Winter Olympics in China".Also read: ‘He let us down’: Nikki Haley breaks with former boss Donald TrumpIf America participates in the Olympic Games in Beijing, the "Chinese Communist Party will claim it as further proof of China's good global standing and world leadership," she said.In his letter, Senator Scott stressed that under no circumstance should the global community give China an international platform to "whitewash its crimes, which is what will happen if they are allowed to host the 2022 Olympic Games in Beijing"."I continue to urge the International Olympic Committee to move the games out of Communist China and to a country that respects basic human rights," he said."I request your immediate attention and the opportunity to meet with you to discuss the horrific human rights atrocities occurring across Communist China and the effort to select a new site for the 2022 Winter Olympics Games," Scott said.In an op-ed for Fox News, Haley said that the US should boycott the games given China's "threats abroad and tyranny at home"."If the United States boycotts the Winter Olympics, it will send an unmistakable message that China’s tyranny and threats are unacceptable. It will show that actions have consequences. President Biden must make the decision to boycott. It shouldn't be a tough one," she said.When asked about the increasing demand in this regard from the Republican lawmakers and leaders, White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki told reporters that "there hasn't been a final decision made on that"."Of course, we would look for guidance from the US Olympic Committee," she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/winter-olympics-part-of-china-s-communist-propaganda-campaign-nikki-haley-101614393761279.html
27-02-2021||World||Brazil resorts to lockdowns and curfews to quell Covid-19 surge||The governor of Brazil's capital city, Brasilia, decreed a 24-hour lockdown for all but essential services on Friday to curb a worsening Covid-19 outbreak that has filled its intensive care wards to the brim.A dozen states running out of beds for patients locked down their main cities, and some declared a night-time curfew to try to stop the spread of novel coronavirus as cases escalated to their worst level since the peak of the pandemic in July.The drastic steps came as right-wing President Jair Bolsonaro, who has repeatedly downplayed the gravity of the pandemic that has killed 250,000 Brazilians, renewed attacks on governors for destroying jobs with lockdowns."People can't stay at home any longer. What they most want is to work," he said on a visit to north-eastern Brazil on Friday, one day after Brazil recorded its second-worst daily toll of 1,541 dead. He threatened to cut off federal emergency pandemic assistance to states resorting to lockdowns.Also read: Petrobras shares slump as Brazil's Bolsonaro doubles down on intervention"From now on, governors who close down their states will have to provide for their own emergency aid," Bolsonaro said.In Brasilia, where the president lives and works, Governor Ibaneis Rocha decreed a lockdown starting early on Sunday.Shops, pharmacies, gas stations, churches and funeral parlours will remain open, the aide said, but everything else will shut down, especially bars and restaurants, which were blamed for increased spread during the end of last year and Carnival holidays.Intensive care wards in Brasilia, the third-largest city in Brazil, are more than 80% occupied, the health department said.The situation in the capitals of 17 of Brazil's 26 states this week reached the most critical level since last year's peak, according to a report by biomedical centre Fiocruz.Brazil reported 65,169 new cases of Covid-19 in the past 24 hours, and 1,337 deaths, the health ministry said on Friday.The South American country has now registered 10,455,630 cases since the pandemic began, while the official death toll has risen to 252,835, according to ministry data, in the world's third-worst outbreak outside the United States and India and the world's second-deadliest.Bolsonaro, who has called Covid-19 a "little flu" and says he will not take any vaccine, is facing growing criticism for failing to secure timely supplies of shots. So far, only 3% of the population has been vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/brazil-resorts-to-lockdowns-and-curfews-to-quell-covid-19-surge-101614392880193.html
27-02-2021||World||Australia moves closer to pre-pandemic life, Covid-19 'reined in' for now||Life across Australia inched toward pre-pandemic normal on Saturday, with New South Wales and South Australia states allowing some dancing and Victoria permitting larger crowds at sporting events.The three states, home to nearly two-thirds of Australia's 25 million people, recorded no community transmissions on Saturday of the new coronavirus that causes COVID-19. For New South Wales, the most populous state, it was 41st straight day without a local case.The state, in addition to allowing up to 30 people to dance at weddings, eased further restrictions on the number of visitors at home. South Australia state allowed some club dancing from Friday.People in Victoria, which this month imposed a five-day strict lockdown after a small outbreak of the coronavirus, woke up on Saturday to rules allowing stadiums to seat 50% of capacity for sporting events.Australia has fared better than most advanced economies thanks to swift border closures, high community compliance with public health measures and aggressive testing and tracing. It has reported fewer than 29,000 coronavirus infections and 909 COVID-19 deaths.On Monday, the country began vaccinations programme, with about 60,000 Pfizer/BioNTech doses administered to priority populations, such as aged-care and disability staff, and border protection and quarantine workers.Foreign Minister Marise Payne said she received the first dose of a COVID-19 vaccine on Saturday as part of the rollout that aims to offer immunisations to all Australians by October."The timing of the vaccination will also help facilitate possible international travel in the near future so we can continue to prosecute vital national interests with our international partners," Payne said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/australia-moves-closer-to-pre-pandemic-life-covid-19-reined-in-for-now-101614402516972.html
27-02-2021||World||Judge approves $650 million Facebook privacy lawsuit settlement||A federal judge on Friday approved a $650 million settlement of a privacy lawsuit against Facebook for allegedly using photo face-tagging and other biometric data without the permission of its users.US District Judge James Donato approved the deal in a class-action lawsuit that was filed in Illlinois in 2015. Nearly 1.6 million Facebook users in Illinois who submitted claims will be affected.Donato called it one of the largest settlements ever for a privacy violation.“It will put at least $345 into the hands of every class member interested in being compensated,” he wrote, calling it “a major win for consumers in the hotly contested area of digital privacy.”Jay Edelson, a Chicago attorney who filed the lawsuit, told the Chicago Tribune that the checks could be in the mail within two months unless the ruling is appealed.“We are pleased to have reached a settlement so we can move past this matter, which is in the best interest of our community and our shareholders,” Facebook, which is headquartered in the San Francisco Bay Area, said in a statement.The lawsuit accused the social media giant of violating an Illinois privacy law by failing to get consent before using facial-recognition technology to scan photos uploaded by users to create and store faces digitally.The state's Biometric Information Privacy Act allowed consumers to sue companies that didn't get permission before harvesting data such as faces and fingerprints.The case eventually wound up as a class-action lawsuit in California.Facebook has since changed its photo-tagging system.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/judge-approves-650-million-facebook-privacy-lawsuit-settlement-101614402315589.html
27-02-2021||World||US CDC says risk of Ebola to the United States is extremely low||The US Centres for Disease Control and Prevention said it was closely following outbreaks of Ebola in Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) and Guinea, and said the risk of Ebola to the United States was extremely low."Out of an abundance of caution, the US government will institute public health measures for the very small number of travellers arriving from the DRC and Guinea," the CDC said in a statement late on Friday."The Biden Administration is committed to working closely with the affected countries to end these outbreaks before they grow into epidemics," the CDC said.Guinea started an Ebola vaccination campaign on Tuesday, the World Health Organization said earlier in the week, as authorities race to contain the first resurgence of the virus there since the world's worst outbreak in 2013-2016.The resurgence of the virus, which causes severe bleeding and organ failure and is spread through contact with body fluids, has alarmed governments in the region and international health organizations, concerned that a major outbreak could overwhelm health infrastructures already battling a pandemic.The CDC said on Friday that beginning next week, travellers from DRC and Guinea will be funnelled to six U.S. airports. Airlines will collect passenger information for public health follow-up and intervention for all passengers boarding a flight to the U.S. who were in DRC or Guinea within the previous 21 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-cdc-says-risk-of-ebola-to-the-united-states-is-extremely-low-101614392691254.html
27-02-2021||World||Malaysia receives China’s Sinovac Covid-19 vaccine for regulatory testing||Malaysia received China’s Sinovac vaccine on Saturday, the second brand of Covid-19 shots days after the Southeast Asian country kicked off its inoculation program.The vaccine arrived in bulk totaling 200 liters, which will then be processed into 300,000 doses, according to Pharmaniaga Bhd., the firm that will package and distribute the shots. The company last month signed an agreement for Sinovac Biotech Ltd. to supply 14 million doses in stages that will cover 22% of the population. The roll-out is still subject to regulatory approval.Malaysia has secured 66.7 million doses of the Covid-19 vaccine from producers, including Sinovac, AstraZeneca Plc, Sputnik V, and CanSinoBio, enough to inoculate nearly 110% of the population. Pfizer remains the only manufacturer to receive the government’s conditional approval for usage, and is set to deliver a total 32 million dosages.The Sinovac doses arrived in bulk so that the country’s regulatory agency can conduct stability testing to ensure that the vaccine, and its manufacturing process, is safe, Science, Technology and Innovation Minister Khairy Jamaluddin said in a briefing Saturday. While the government would prefer the vaccine to be approved as quickly as possible, “there’s no shortcut,” he said.“We take note of where these vaccines are being used around the world but we have our own regulatory agency,” he said. “The government’s position is to please take whatever that the National Pharmaceutical Regulatory Agency has approved.”Pharmaniaga said in a statement that the vaccine’s process validation batch manufacturing, a requirement by the regulatory agency, will start on March 1 and is expected to be completed within 12 days.A total of 1.183 million registrations have been recorded so far and 3,583 people have taken the shot, according to Khairy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/malaysia-receives-china-s-sinovac-covid-19-vaccine-for-regulatory-testing-101614402189847.html
27-02-2021||World||Committed to providing equal access to vaccines to Palestinians: India at UNSC||India on Friday said that it is working towards making Covid-19 vaccines available to the people of Palestine, including those living in the Gaza Strip, K Nagaraj Naidu, India’s Deputy Permanent Representative to the United Nations told the United Nations Security Council (UNSC).“The pandemic's impact on the people of Gaza has been particularly severe due to its fragile healthcare infrastructure. We note that Covid-19 vaccines are being made available to people of Palestine, including in Gaza,” Nagaraj was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.India strongly believes that equity in access to vaccines across the world is important for mitigating impact of pandemic. India had earlier provided critical medicines & medical equipment to Palestine as #COVID19 assistance: Deputy Permanent Representative to UNNagaraj Naidu also said that India has been helping the war torn region with healthcare equipment, medicines as well as Covid-19 vaccines from the beginning of the pandemic. He said, “India strongly believes that equitable access to vaccines across the world is important for mitigating the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. India had earlier provided critical medicines & medical equipment to Palestine as assistance during the pandemic.”We are in the process of sending the second batch of medicines as a grant to the Palestinian people in the coming weeks. We will also facilitate an early supply of vaccines to Palestine: Deputy Permanent Representative to UN, K Nagaraj Naidu, speaks at UNSCIndia had on December donated $2 million along with $3 million donated earlier in 2020 to support education, healthcare, relief and social services for Palestinian refugees. India had also committed to contributing $10 million to the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East (UNRWA) for helping Palestinian population affected by the war with Israel.Naidu on Saturday also said that India is working to send a second batch of medicines as a grant to Palestinians and said that it will also ensure early supply of vaccines in the coming week.The government under the Vaccine Maitri initiative has sent consignments of Covid-19 vaccines under grant assistance to Bhutan, Maldives, Nepal, Bangladesh, Myanmar, Mauritius and Seychelles. It will also send vaccines under commercial agreements to Saudi Arabia, South Africa, Brazil and Morocco along with other nations.Earlier on Thursday, Palestine received 10,000 doses of Russia's Sputnik V vaccine as it prepared to launch its Covid-19 vaccination programme. Palestinian health minister Mai Alkaila told the supply would be enough to vaccinate 5,000 people, who would each be given two shots, according to a news report by Reuters citing Palestinian news broadcaster Voice of Palestine Radio.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/committed-to-providing-equal-access-to-vaccines-to-palestinians-india-at-unsc-101614402054520.html
27-02-2021||World||Explainer: What is love? Beijing desires unconditional loyalty from Hong Kong||Chinese officials have signalled that Beijing plans sweeping electoral changes for Hong Kong, possibly as soon as next week, when China's parliament, the National People's Congress (NPC), opens in Beijing.WHAT IS BEIJING PLANNING?Xia Baolong, director of China's Hong Kong and Macao Affairs Office, has said the electoral system in the global financial hub needs to be changed to allow only "patriots" to govern.Hong Kong leader Carrie Lam said her government would fully co-operate with Beijing in "improving" the political system.Secretary for Mainland and Constitutional Affairs Erick Tsang announced a bill requiring community-level council representatives to take a "patriotic" oath and then clarified what the term meant."You cannot say that you are patriotic but you do not love the leadership of the Chinese Communist Party or you do not respect it - this does not make sense," Tsang added."Patriotism is holistic love."WHAT IS THE BIG PICTURE?Love might be the ideal, but what Beijing really wants is obedience, control and utterly predictable elections.The plans are Beijing's latest moves to consolidate its authoritarian hold over Hong Kong after the mass pro-democracy protests and violence that rocked the former British colony for much of 2019.Last June, Beijing imposed, through the NPC, a sweeping national security law on Hong Kong. Most pro-democracy activists and politicians have found themselves ensnared by it, or arrested for other reasons.Some elected legislators have been disqualified, with authorities calling their oaths insincere. The opposition then resigned en masse from the Legislative Council, Hong Kong's mini-parliament.Making district councillors and civil servants swear "patriotic" oaths makes them vulnerable to similar treatment.Hong Kong's district councils are its only fully democratic institution and the pro-democracy camp took almost 90% of their 452 seats in 2019 elections, humiliating the establishment.That momentum suggested a small chance for democratic politicians to win an unprecedented majority in legislative elections set for September after a year's delay over coronavirus curbs.WHAT COULD THE CHANGES LOOK LIKE?Gerrymandering looks certain. And probably much more.By design, Hong Kong institutions have been dominated by pro-Beijing politicians since the former British colony's return to Chinese rule in 1997, but the Lam government's unpopularity has exposed risks to Beijing's control.Half of the city's 70 lawmakers are directly elected in "geographical constituencies," with the rest from "functional" ones representing industries, unions, and professions and stacked with pro-Beijing figures.Media said electoral maps could be redrawn to suit the pro-Beijing camp, taking the number of geographical constituencies to 18 from 5, as a way of crimping the democrats' popular vote.Then a 'one vote, two seats' system in each constituency would allow entry to the legislature for the second-placed candidate, probably from the pro-Beijing camp, going by polls that show a split of about 60% to 40% between democratic and pro-establishment sides.A six-seat district councillors' constituency in the legislature - a democratic stronghold - could also be scrapped.Beijing is also reported to be considering reshaping a panel of 1,200 elite figures that will choose a new leader when Lam's first five-year term ends in March 2022.District councillors only have about a tenth of the committee's seats. But the democratic camp's unprecedented win in 2019 now offers a rare theoretical opportunity to be king-makers in close races between pro-Beijing candidates.WHY IS COMMUNIST PARTY LOYALTY SO VEXING IN CHINESE-RULED HONG KONG?Generations of Chinese families fled to British-ruled Hong Kong after the Communist Party took power in 1949 and up until recently, city-based Chinese officials have kept a low profile.The Communist Party still has no open or official locally-registered presence, operating instead through surrogates and proxies.Key to Hong Kong's enduring freedoms, say many of its residents, is a paragraph in its mini-constitution, known as the Basic Law, that specifies:"The socialist system and policies shall not be practised in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region and the previous capitalist system and way of life shall remain unchanged for 50 years."The Basic Law reflects the "one country, two systems" formula that has long ensured Hong Kong's broad freedom of speech, religion and political action, with its own government except for foreign affairs and defence.While the city does not enjoy full democracy, universal suffrage is enshrined as a goal in the Basic Law. For decades a thriving civil society contributed to fierce debates in the legislature and elsewhere.IS THERE MORE TO COME?Very likely so, on several fronts.Beijing officials have said Hong Kong's independent judges must also be patriots and that judicial reforms were necessary.The contours and timing of these are uncertain, but diplomats and businesses are watching closely, seeing judicial independence as the bedrock of Hong Kong's international status.Hong Kong and Beijing officials, who have repeatedly said rights and freedoms remain intact, are adamant that judicial independence will be maintained.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/explainer-what-is-love-beijing-desires-unconditional-loyalty-from-hong-kong-101614401921897.html
27-02-2021||World||US senators introduce bill to end China's access to multiple year visa||A legislation has been introduced by a group of influential Republican senators to end China’s access to 10-year multi-entry visas until it is certified that Beijing has ceased its campaign of economic and industrial espionage against the US.The legislation, Visa Security Act, was introduced by Senators Marsha Blackburn, Tom Cotton, Rick Scott, Ted Cruz, and Marco Rubio on Friday.It would prohibit Chinese nationals from receiving 10-year B-1/B-2 visas until the Secretary of State certifies that China has ceased its campaign of economic and industrial espionage against the United States and ended its provocative and coercive behaviour towards Taiwan.The B-1/B-2 visas are issued to those who come to the US for business, visit or tourism purposes.Under this legislation, Chinese citizens would be eligible for one-year multi-entry visas. This policy would represent a return to the pre-2014 visa status quo and does not apply to Taiwan or certain residents of Hong Kong.It also seeks certification from the Secretary of State that China has withdrawn its national security law with respect to Hong Kong and fully upheld its commitments under the Sino-British Joint Declaration of 1984; ended its systematic oppression of Uighurs, Tibetans, and other ethnic groups; retracted its unlawful claims in the South China Sea; and released foreign hostages and wrongfully detained individuals in China.The relations between China and the US are at an all time low. The two countries are currently involved in a bitter confrontation over various issues, including trade, the origins of the novel coronavirus pandemic, the communist giant's aggressive military moves in the disputed South China Sea and human rights.China is engaged in hotly contested territorial disputes in the South and East China Seas. Beijing has also made substantial progress in militarising its man-made islands in the past few years. The South China Sea is rich in minerals, oil and other natural resources.Beijing claims sovereignty over all of the South China Sea. But Vietnam, Malaysia, the Philippines, Brunei and Taiwan have counterclaims.The Chinese Government sees Taiwan as a rebel province that will eventually be part of the country again.Until the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) ends its systematic violations of human rights and religious freedom, the United States cannot remain complicit by offering 10-year multi-entry visas to Chinese nationals. The Visa Security Act will stop the revolving door the CCP has used for half a decade and instead demand accountability in the global human rights effort, Senator Blackburn said.“Since 2014, the Chinese Communist Party has had access to 10-year business and tourist visas, which allow Chinese citizens to enter and exit the United States as they please. In issuing these visas, the US has welcomed the CCP, its intelligence agencies, and those they have co-opted with open arms. This was a bad decision in 2014 and it’s time we fixed this error,” said Cotton.The Obama/Biden appeasement of Communist China did nothing but bolster General Secretary Xi’s power, Scott said."We know Communist China will stop at nothing to steal American technology and intellectual property in an attempt to dominate the world. There is no reason Communist China should have been given preferential visa treatment, and I’m proud to work with my colleagues to continue to hold them accountable,” he said.“China poses the single greatest geopolitical threat to the United States. The Chinese Communist Party engages in propaganda and censorship to control what Americans see, hear, and ultimately think about China. It’s long past time to end the Chinese Communist Party’s abuse of our visa system. This bill counters China’s aggression and advances American security,” said Senator Ted Cruz.“It is long overdue for the United States to fully address the imbalances in our relationship with China and stop the Chinese Communist Party from exploiting our programmes and openness,” Rubio said.“Terminating China's access to 10-year multi-entry visas is a logical step in overturning bad policy by the Obama Administration. China should not be given special treatment that is out of step with our relationship, the abuses they are committing, and its malign activities in the US,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-senators-introduce-bill-to-end-china-s-access-to-multiple-year-visa-101614401417732.html
27-02-2021||World||Biden's $1.9 trillion Covid-19 relief plan passes hurdle in US House||The US House of Representatives moved toward a late-night vote on President Joe Biden's $1.9 trillion coronavirus aid bill on Friday as Democrats who control the chamber steered the sweeping measure toward approval.The House Rules Committee turned back scores of Republican attempts to modify the package and sent it to the House floor for passage late Friday or early Saturday.With Republicans lining up in opposition, Democrats who hold a 221-211 majority have few votes to spare.Democrats said the package was needed to fight a pandemic that has killed more than 500,000 Americans and thrown millions out of work, while Republicans criticized it as too expensive.The measure would pay for vaccines and medical supplies and send a new round of emergency financial aid to households, small businesses and state and local governments.Democrats aim to get the bill for Biden to sign into law before mid-March, when enhanced unemployment benefits and some other types of aid are due to expire.But their path has been complicated by the Senate's rules expert, who said on Thursday that they cannot include an increase in the minimum wage to $15 per hour in the package.House Speaker Nancy Pelosi predicted the bill will pass Congress with or without the increase, but said Democrats would not give up on the matter."We will not stop until we very soon pass the $15 minimum wage," she said at a news conference.Republicans who have broadly backed previous Covid-19 spending say another $1.9 trillion is simply too much. The White House and some economists say a big package is needed to revive the world's largest economy.Opinion polls have found broad public support for the package."The only place this is a partisan issue is here in Washington," said Democratic Representative Jim McGovern in debate in the House Rules Committee. "We are here because people are hurting and communities are struggling."Republican Representative Tom Cole said bill was "bloated" with Democratic pet projects unrelated to the coronavirus."Shouldn’t we at least spend down the funds already allocated, and see if new money is actually required?" Cole said.Roughly $1 billion of the $4.1 trillion in coronavirus aid approved last year has yet to be spent, according to the Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget, a nonpartisan watchdog group.Biden has focused his first weeks in office on tackling the greatest public health crisis in a century, which has upended most aspects of American life.Pelosi is counting on nearly all of her rank and file to get the bill passed before sending it to a 50-50 Senate where Democratic Vice President Kamala Harris holds the tie-breaking vote.MINIMUM WAGE HIKEThe House bill would raise the national hourly minimum wage for the first time since 2009, to $15 from $7.25. The increase is a top priority for progressive Democrats.That is unlikely to win approval in the Senate.The chamber's parliamentarian ruled on Thursday that, unlike other elements of the sweeping bill, it could not be passed with just a simple majority of 50 senators plus Harris, rather than the 60 needed to advance most legislation in the 100-seat chamber.At least two Senate Democrats oppose the $15 hourly figure, along with most Republicans. Some are floating a smaller increase, in the range of $10 to $12 per hour.Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer might add a provision that would penalize large corporations that do not pay their workers a $15 minimum wage, a Senate Democratic aide said.Among the big-ticket items in the bill are $1,400 direct payments to individuals, a $400-per-week federal unemployment benefit through Aug. 29, and help for those having difficulties paying their rent and home mortgages during the pandemic.An array of business interests also have weighed in behind Biden's "America Rescue Plan" Act, as the bill is called.Efforts to craft a bipartisan coronavirus aid bill fizzled early on, shortly after Biden was sworn in as president on Jan. 20, following a series of bipartisan bills enacted in 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/bidens-1-9-trillion-covid-19-relief-plan-passes-hurdle-in-us-house-101614391039250.html
27-02-2021||World||US slaps sanctions against 76 Saudi individuals after Khashoggi report implicates crown prince||The United States on Friday released an intelligence report which said that Saudi Arabia's de facto ruler, Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, approved an operation to capture or kill murdered journalist Jamal Khashoggi in 2018.The report is based on intelligence gathered by the CIA and other agencies since the killing of Khashoggi. Though Saudi Arabia has rejected these findings, US President Joe Biden has called the signing off on the order by the crown prince "outrageous".What happened in October 2018?Khashoggi, a US resident who was one of the fiercest critics of the regime of King Salman and his son, the crown prince, disappeared after entering the Saudi consulate in Istanbul on October 2, 2018.He had gone to the consulate to get a document that he needed to marry his Turkish fiancee Hatice Cengiz who was waiting outside.Turkish officials say Khashoggi, 59, was strangled and his body was cut into pieces by a 15-man Saudi group inside the kingdom’s mission. His remains have never been found.What does the US report say?The newly declassified report by Biden administration has implicated the crown prince. The conclusion that the prince approved an operation to kill or capture Khashoggi was based on his decision-making role inside the kingdom, the involvement of a key adviser and members of his protective detail and his past support for violently silencing dissidents abroad, according to the report from the Office of the Director of National Intelligence.The report noted that some of those involved in the killing of Khashoggi were from the Saudi Center for Studies and Media Affairs, then led by key aid of crown prince Saud al-Qahtani, "who claimed publicly in mid-2018 that he did not make decisions without the crown prince's approval."'Khashoggi ban'After the report was released, Secretary of State Antony Blinken announced sanctions against 76 Saudi individuals under what he called a new “Khashoggi Ban” policy. Under that authority, the US says it will single out anyone who, acting for a foreign government, engages in “counter-dissident activities” beyond that country’s borders.“While the United States remains invested in its relationship with Saudi Arabia, President Biden has made clear that partnership must reflect US values,” Blinken said. “To that end, we have made absolutely clear that extraterritorial threats and assaults by Saudi Arabia against activists, dissidents, and journalists must end.”As part of the plan, the United States has imposed a visa ban on some Saudis believed involved in the Khashoggi killing and placed sanctions on others, including a former deputy intelligence chief, that would freeze their US assets and generally bar Americans from dealing with them.State Department spokesman Ned Price had told reporters Thursday that the US was looking at other ways to punish the perpetrators of Khashoggi’s killing. Among the options may be cutting back arms sales to Saudi Arabia, he said without elaborating.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-slaps-sanctions-against-76-saudi-individuals-after-khashoggi-report-implicates-crown-prince-101614394777623.html
27-02-2021||World||Syria airstrikes: Biden protected US personnel, facilities, says White House||The White House has said that through the airstrikes in Syria, President Joe Biden protected US personnel and facilities, and deterred the risk of additional attacks "over the coming weeks".On Thursday, airstrikes in Syria targeted facilities belonging to a powerful Iranian-backed Iraqi armed group, reportedly killing one fighter and wounding several others.The strikes came in the wake of recent attacks on US interests in Iraq, including a rocket attack last week which killed a civilian contractor and injured a US service member and other coalition troops."The president is sending an unambiguous message that he's going to act to protect Americans, and when threats are posed, he has the right to take action at the time, and in the manner of his choosing," White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki told reporters."He also is going to take these actions in a manner that's deliberative, and that has the objective of de-escalating activity in both Syria and Iraq," she said.Also read: US welcomes India-Pakistan joint statement on ceasefireAsked if the airstrikes influences reopening talks with Iran, Psaki said the status of that, at this point in time, remains that the US is open to having these diplomatic conversations.Right now the Europeans have issued an invitation and "we are waiting to hear back”, she said.Responding to a question on the legal authority of conducting the strikes in Syria, Psaki said as a matter of domestic law, the president took this action pursuant to his article two authority to defend US personnel."The targets were chosen to... correspond to the recent attacks on facilities, and to deter the risk of additional attacks over the coming weeks. As a matter of international law, the US acted pursuant to its right to self defence as reflected in Article 50-1 of the UN Charter. The strikes were both necessary to address the threat and proportionate to the prior attacks,” Psaki said.She added that the national security team conducted a legal “review” in advance.At a separate news conference, Secretary of State Antony Blinken said that in the last 10 days there were multiple occasions attacks on American people, positions, interests that took lives and injured others."So we had both to respond to those attacks but also to an ongoing threat that was very clear," he said."We took this action that I think was focused, proportionate, but also effective in degrading some of the capacity that the militia in question had to perpetrate new attacks, and also to be very clear, notably to Iran, that they cannot act with impunity against our people, our partners, our interests. I think and expect that the message was clearly received,” Blinken said.Congressman Adam Smith, Chairman of the House Armed Services Committee, said that the Syrian strike should serve as a reminder that the US will always defend its partners, allies and interests.“This strike against an Iranian-backed militia was defensive in nature, following multiple rocket attacks against our forces in Iraq. The strike was proportional and appropriate given the recent, regrettable actions by Iran-backed militias who have targeted our forces in Iraq, whose mission is to assist the Iraqi people in their fight against ISIS,” Smith said.Indian American Congressman Ro Khanna opposed the attack."This makes President Biden the seventh consecutive US president to order strikes in the Middle East. There is absolutely no justification for a president to authorize a military strike that is not in self-defense against an imminent threat without congressional authorisation,” Khanna said.“We ran on ending wars, not escalating conflicts in the Middle East. Our foreign policy needs to be rooted in diplomacy and the rule of law, not retaliatory air strikes without Congressional authorization,” he said in a tweet.The US needs to extricate from the Middle East, not escalate. The president should not be taking these actions without seeking explicit authorisation, Khanna said.He said that he had spoken "against endless war with (former president Donald) Trump, and I will speak out against it when we have a Democratic President".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/syria-airstrikes-biden-protected-us-personnel-facilities-says-white-house-101614391007313.html
27-02-2021||World||Joe Biden surveys Texas weather damage, encourages coronavirus shots||President Joe Biden heard firsthand from Texans clobbered by this month's brutal winter weather on Friday and pledged to stick with them “for the long haul” as he made his first trip to a major disaster area since he took office.Biden was briefed by emergency officials and thanked workers for doing “God's work.” He promised the federal government will be there for Texans as they try to recover, not just from the historic storm but also the public health and economic crisis caused by the coronavirus pandemic.“When a crisis hits our states, like the one that hit Texas, it’s not a Republican or Democrat that’s hurting," Biden said. “It's our fellow Americans that are hurting and it's our job to help everyone in need."With tens of thousands of Houston area residents without safe water, local officials told Biden that many are still struggling. While he was briefed, first lady Jill Biden joined an assembly line of volunteers packing boxes of quick oats, juice, and other food at the Houston Food Bank, where he arrived later.The president's first stop was the Harris County Emergency Operations Center for a briefing from acting FEMA Administrator Bob Fenton and state and local emergency management officials.Texas was hit particularly hard by the Valentine's weekend storm that battered multiple states. Unusually frigid conditions led to widespread power outages and frozen pipes that burst and flooded homes. Millions of residents lost heat and running water.At least 40 people in Texas died as a result of the storm and, although the weather has returned to more normal temperatures, more than 1 million residents are still under orders to boil water before drinking it.“The president has made very clear to us that in crises like this, it is our duty to organize prompt and competent federal support to American citizens, and we have to ensure that bureaucracy and politics do not stand in the way,” said Homeland Security Adviser Liz Sherwood-Randall, who accompanied Biden to Houston.Biden was joined for much of his visit by Gov. Greg Abbott and Sen. John Cornyn, both Republicans, four Democratic Houston-area members of Congress and Houston Mayor Sylvester Turner and Harris County Judge Lina Hidalgo.The president also stopped by a mass coronavirus vaccination center at NRG Stadium that is run by the federal government. Biden on Thursday commemorated the 50 millionth COVID-19 vaccination since he took office, halfway toward his goal of 100 million shots by his 100th day in office. That celebration followed a moment of silence to mark the passage earlier this week of 500,000 U.S. deaths blamed on the disease.Democrat Biden suggested that he and Republicans Abbott and Cornyn could find common cause in getting Americans vaccinated as quickly as possible.“We disagree on plenty of things,” Biden said. “There’s nothing wrong with that, but there are plenty of things we can work on together. And one of them is represented right here today, the effort to speed up vaccinations."Texas' other U.S. senator, Ted Cruz, an ally of former President Donald Trump and one of a handful of GOP lawmakers who had objected to Congress certifying Biden’s victory, was in Florida Friday addressing the Conservative Political Action Conference.Cruz, who has been criticized for taking his family to Cancun, Mexico, while millions of Texans shivered in unheated homes, later said the trip was a mistake, but he made light of the controversy on Friday. “Orlando is awesome,” he said to laughs and hoots. “It’s not as nice as Cancun. But’s nice.”At the peak of the storm, more than 1.4 million residents were without power and 3.5 million were under boil-water notices in the nation's third largest county.Post-storm debate in Texas has centered on the state maintaining its own electrical grid and its lack of better storm preparation, including weatherization of key infrastructure. Some state officials initially blamed the blackouts on renewable energy even though Texas relies heavily on oil and gas.In Washington, Biden's climate adviser said the deadly winter storm was a “wake-up call” for the United States to build energy systems that can withstand extreme weather linked to climate change.“We need systems of energy that are reliable and resilient,” Gina McCarthy said in an interview with The Associated Press.The White House said Biden's purpose in visiting was to support, not scold.Biden was bent on asking Texans "what do you need, how can I help you more," White House press secretary Jen Psaki said. “And what can we get more for you from the federal government.”Biden has declared a major disaster in Texas and asked federal agencies to identify additional resources to aid the recovery. The Federal Emergency Management Agency has sent emergency generators, bottled water, ready-to-eat meals and blankets.Galveston County Judge Mark Henry said in an interview that he didn't know what more the federal government could do to help because the failures were at the state level. But Henry, a Republican who is the highest county official in the suburban Houston county, said that if Biden “thinks it's important to visit, then come on down.”Biden wanted to make the trip last week, but said at the time that he held back because he didn’t want his presence and entourage to detract from the recovery effort.Houston also was the destination for Trump's first presidential visit to a disaster area in 2017 after Hurricane Harvey caused catastrophic flooding that August.Trump, who is not known for displays of empathy, did not meet with storm victims on the visit. He returned four days later and urged people who had relocated to a shelter to “have a good time.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-surveys-texas-weather-damage-encourages-coronavirus-shots-101614392268323.html
27-02-2021||World||Implementing One-Way Traffic At Retail Stores Can Reduce Covid-19 Transmission||Researchers in a study suggests that implementing one-way customer traffic at retail stores can dramatically reduce Covid-19 transmission. The study was conducted by Robert A. Shumsky, Laurens Debo, Rebecca M. Lebeaux, Quang P. Nguyen and Anne G. Hoen.The study was published by Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences."To reduce the transmission of Covid-19, many retail stores use one-way aisles, while local governments enforce occupancy limits or require "safe shopping" times for vulnerable groups," read the study.To assess the value of these interventions, the study formulates and analyses a mathematical model of customer flow and Covid-19 transmission. The study finds find that the value of specific operational changes depends on how the virus is transmitted, through close contact or suspended aerosols. If the transmission is primarily due to close contact, then restricting customers to one-way movement can dramatically reduce transmission. Other interventions, such as reductions in customer density, are effective at a distance but confront store operators with trade-offs between infection rates and customer flow.The study examines how operational changes in customer flows in retail stores affect the rate of Covid-19 transmission. They combine a model of customer movement with two models of disease transmission: direct exposure when two customers are in close proximity and wake exposure when one customer is in the airflow behind another customer.They find that the effectiveness of some operational interventions is sensitive to the primary mode of transmission. Restricting customer flow to one-way movement is highly effective if direct exposure is the dominant mode of transmission. In particular, the rate of direct transmission under full compliance with one-way movement is less than one-third of the rate under two-way movement.Directing customers to follow the one-way flow, however, is not effective if wake exposure dominates. The study finds that two other interventions--reducing the speed variance of customers and throughput control--can be effective whether direct or wake transmission is dominant.The study also examines the trade-off between customer throughput and the risk of infection to customers, and the study shows how the optimal throughput rate drops rapidly as the population prevalence rises.By integrating knowledge about virology, epidemiology, and the physical flow of customers in retail stores, the study develops and analyses a model that connects the biology of Covid-19 with operational interventions to reduce the spread of the disease. The model calculates the disease transmission rate in a retail environment and determines how the rate depends on the customer flow policy (one-way versus two-way), the travel speed distribution, and store size. The study finds that one-way restrictions are useful for reducing direct transmission but have no effect on wake transmission. Eliminating speed variability can reduce or even eliminate direct transmission when traffic is one-way but can only reduce (but not eliminate) transmission in two-way traffic. Finally, the study shows that the optimal admission rate to a store falls as the disease prevalence rises and the ratio of profit to infection cost falls.The study also calibrates our model using published epidemiological data. For a medium-sized retailer in an area with a relatively high prevalence of Covid-19, our model predicts a total transmission rate (via direct and wake exposure) of 0.33 infections per day. Complete customer compliance with one-way flow reduces the direct transmission rate by 70 per cent, while the partial compliance observed in one store reduces the transmission rate by 11 per cent. The study also compares the impact of direct and wake transmission by first defining a ratio between the wake and direct transmission probabilities for a single encounter between an infectious and a susceptible customer. Given two-way traffic, if this ratio is 200 per cent or more, then wake exposure dominates direct exposure in its contribution to virus transmission. When retailers can control customer throughput, the optimal throughput drops significantly as Covid-19 prevalence increases up to 1 per cent. Because estimates of some parameters vary substantially from region to region and will change over time, the study conduct sensitivity analysis to assess the robustness of our findings.The study discusses some of our modelling assumptions and possible extensions. In the model of customer flow, the study ignores variation in both the speed and path of each customer, e.g., stopping to examine and pick products off shelves. Adding this additional variability would increase the number of customer interactions and direct exposure, although quantifying its impact and understanding the impact on wake exposure would require a more complex analytical model and/or simulation. The study also assumes Poisson arrivals, a reasonable assumption during short periods in many retail areas, but not a reasonable assumption in other contexts such as school hallways, where a fluid model may be more appropriate.In addition, the study assumes that wake exposure ends as soon as an infectious customer leaves the area. This is a simplification, for infectious aerosols may remain in the air after customers depart. If the area is large, however, and if customers spend a significant amount of time on their journey, then the impact of edge effects when customers leave the area is small. For the numerical experiments described above, these edge effects are not significant.Our model focuses on customer movement through store aisles and ignores interactions among customers and employees. Front-line workers for essential retailers, in particular, can face a high risk of exposure. Cashiers, for example, face both direct and wake exposure in checkout areas. Many stores now enforce social distancing standards around these areas and provide guidance such as floor stickers to indicate spacing between customers. While this can nearly eliminate direct exposure, wake exposure would be a concern around checkout areas. Incorporating a queuing model that includes customer movement and airflow may be a useful extension.The specific infection rates predicted by our model depend upon many environmental variables, including ventilation systems and the proportion of customers who use masks. Given this uncertainty, the model highlights where gaps in the scientific knowledge of Covid-19 transmission need to be filled so that the study may redesign service operations to reduce spread. In particular, the effectiveness of these interventions is highly dependent on whether the virus is transmitted through heavy droplets or aerosols. In addition, the model may be adapted to analyse Covid-19 transmission in other service settings such as restaurants, airplanes, and hotels in which customer flow can be regulated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/implementing-one-way-traffic-at-retail-stores-can-reduce-covid-19-transmission-101614390241245.html
27-02-2021||World||'To save lives': Czech PM Andrej Babis on 'tightest' Covid-19 lockdown as yet||With new infections soaring due to a highly contagious coronavirus variant and hospitals filling up, one of the hardest-hit countries in the European Union is facing the inevitable: the tightest lockdown since the start of the pandemic.The Czech Republic’s Prime Minister Andrej Babis said Friday the new series of measures is necessary “to protect the lives of our citizens.”“We have to do it prevent a total collapse of our hospitals,” Babis said. “If we don't do it, the whole world will watch Bergamo in the Czech Republic.”He acknowledged his government made mistakes in dealing with the pandemic in the past but called on the Czechs to abide by the rules that are becoming effective on Monday for three weeks with a goal “to stop the virus and return to normalcy.”Among the strictest restrictions, the government is set to limit free movement of people by not allowing them to travel to other counties unless the go to work or have to take care about their relatives.“If it's possible, stay at home,” Interior Minister Jan Hamacek said. Hamacek said the measure will be enforced by police and military forces.If people go out for sports or just a walk, they should not leave their municipality.Further measures include the closure of nursery schools and schools for children with disabilities that until now have remained open.Also, only the stores with essential goods will remain open.“It’s not the best timing, it is in fact late,” Jan Konvalinka, a biochemist and vice-rector of Prague’s Charles University, told Czech public radio. “But better late than never, we have to stop it somehow.”Konvalinka is a member of a group of scientists who have urged the government to immediately apply strict restrictions to reduce the number of new daily infections to 1,000 confirmed cases. It was 14,457 on Thursday, some 2,750 more than a week earlier.Health Minister Jan Blatny said the new cases might likely surge to some 20,000 a day in next week before the new measures make an impact.Blatny said people will have to wear face coverings outdoor in towns and cities all the time and also at work.Amid a surge of the variant first identified in the U.K., of the 7,176 COVID-19 patients in Czech hospitals on Thursday, a record 1,531 needed intensive care.Another potentially dangerous variant first detected in South Africa has also been confirmed in the country this week.To help the struggling health system and prevent a collapse, the government has been discussing with Germany and Poland an option to send Czech COVID-19 patients to their hospitals for treatment as the local clinics are reaching their limits.The seven-day rolling average of daily new cases has risen over the past two weeks from 68.83 new cases per 100,000 people on Feb. 11 to 99.94 on Thursday, the worst per-capita rate in the world, according to Johns Hopkins University.The nation of 10.7 million has had over 1.2 million confirmed cases with almost 20,000 deaths.In an attempt to boost the vaccination program, the Czech Republic has approached EU nations and others asking them for vaccines for which they don’t have immediate use.Babis said France has agreed to send 100,000 doses by the middle of March. Some 5,000 Moderna doses have been donated by Israel, a close ally.The Czechs had administered 623,820 shots by Thursday.The government will also start to require mass of employees in companies and extend the required quarantine from 10 to 14 days to address the specifics of the new variants that are more infectious.___Follow all of AP’s pandemic coverage at https://apnews.com/hub/coronavirus-pandemic, https://apnews.com/hub/coronavirus-vaccine and https://apnews.com/UnderstandingtheOutbreak||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/to-save-lives-czech-pm-andrej-babis-on-tightest-covid-19-lockdown-as-yet-101614391927639.html
27-02-2021||World||Donald Trump's niece blasts his 'chutzpah' toward her fraud lawsuit||Donald Trump's niece accused him on Friday of trying to dodge accountability for defrauding her out of a multimillion dollar inheritance by claiming she took too long to sue.Lawyers for Mary Trump made the accusation in a New York state court in Manhattan, where the 55-year-old psychologist is suing the former president, his sister Maryanne Trump Barry and his late brother Robert's estate."The offensiveness of defendants' past conduct — stealing tens of millions of dollars from their own niece — is perhaps surpassed only by the chutzpah of their current arguments for dismissal," the lawyers wrote.A lawyer for Donald Trump and Robert's estate could not immediately be reached outside business hours. Barry's lawyer declined to comment.The case's origins are in the 1981 death of Mary's father, Fred Trump Jr, the older brother of Donald Trump, who left the then 16-year-old Mary a profitable real estate portfolio.Mary Trump said her aunt and uncles were supposed to look after her interests but instead siphoned money away, and finally "squeezed" her out of the family fortune in a 2001 settlement related to the estate of Fred Trump Sr, who died in 1999.She sued in September, just under two years after she claimed to learn what they did through a New York Times investigation into Donald Trump's finances."Reasonable diligence would not have uncovered the fraud" more than a decade earlier as the defendants contended, her lawyers wrote.Mary Trump's best-selling tell-all "Too Much and Never Enough: How My Family Created the World's Most Dangerous Man" detailed some of her allegations.Donald Trump's lawyers have accused Mary Trump of trying to cash in on the family name, and consume him with lawsuits.The former president's legal challenges include a criminal probe by Manhattan District Attorney Cyrus Vance into possible fraud, a civil probe by New York Attorney General Letitia James and defamation lawsuits by two women, E. Jean Carroll and Summer Zervos, who accused him of sexual misconduct.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-s-niece-blasts-his-chutzpah-toward-her-fraud-lawsuit-101614391691402.html
27-02-2021||World||South Korea kicks off vaccination drive, 18,000+ inoculated on Day 1||South Korea said 18,489 people received their first doses of AstraZeneca PLC's vaccine by midnight on Friday as it launched an ambitious Covid-19 inoculation campaign, and will begin using Pfizer/BioNTech vaccines on Saturday.The first to receive the shots are healthcare workers, staffers at assisted care facilities and other high-risk people, with a goal of vaccinating 32 million to 36 million people - some 60% to 70% of the population - by September.The government hopes to reach herd immunity, defined as at least a 70% vaccine take-up, by November, as health authorities remain on alert for signs of sporadic infections.The first AstraZeneca vaccines are to be administered to 289,000 people, while about 55,000 healthcare workers in coronavirus treatment facilities will receive first batch of the vaccine developed by Pfizer Inc and BioNTech SE supplied through the Covax global vaccine-sharing programme.Aside from AstraZeneca, Pfizer and Covax, South Korea has also reached agreements with Moderna Inc, Novavax Inc and Johnson & Johnson for vaccines.South Korea reported 415 infections of the new coronavirus for Friday. The country has recorded 89,321 infections and 1,595 Covid-19 deaths, the Korea Disease Control and Prevention Agency said.The authorities are extending social distancing rules by two weeks nationwide, including a ban on private gatherings of more than four, to blunt the coronavirus surge, Prime Minister Chung Sye-kyun on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/south-korea-kicks-off-vaccination-drive-18-000-inoculated-on-day-1-101614391661032.html
27-02-2021||World||Joe Biden calls Saudi Prince’s plot against Khashoggi ‘outrageous’||President Joe Biden called it “outrageous” that Saudi Arabia Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman signed off on the killing of Washington Post columnist Jamal Khashoggi.Biden said in an interview with Univision News that he had told Saudi King Salman this week “that the rules are changing” in the kingdom’s relationship with the US and that “we’re going to be announcing significant changes today and on Monday.”The Biden administration on Friday released a partially redacted report the Trump administration had withheld from the public revealing that the US intelligence committee believed the crown prince was responsible for Khashoggi’s October 2018 murder inside the Saudi consulate in Istanbul.“We assess that Saudi Arabia’s Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman approved an operation in Istanbul, Turkey, to capture or kill Saudi journalist Jamal Khashoggi,” the report concluded.“We immediately, when I got in, filed the report, read it, got it, and released it today,” Biden said. “And it is outrageous what happened.”Kingdom ‘Rejects’ FindingThe report builds on classified intelligence from the CIA and other agencies after Khashoggi’s murder.“The government of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia completely rejects the negative, false and unacceptable assessment in the report pertaining to the Kingdom’s leadership, and notes that the report contained inaccurate information and conclusions,” the Saudi foreign ministry said in a statement.The decision to release the report, compiled by the Office of the Director of National Intelligence, reflects the Biden administration’s determination to recalibrate relations with Saudi Arabia, the world’s largest oil exporter, over its human rights record.Prince Mohammed has denied involvement in the killing, while saying he accepts symbolic responsibility as the country’s de facto ruler. Saudi officials have said the murder was carried out by rogue agents who’ve since been prosecuted.Although the four-page declassified version of the report didn’t disclose any direct evidence or the US intelligence methods that were used in reaching its conclusion, it said the team that killed Khashoggi included seven members of the crown prince’s “elite personal protective detail” who wouldn’t have taken part without his approval.“The Crown Prince viewed Khashoggi as a threat to the Kingdom and broadly supported using violent measures if necessary to silence him,” the report said. “Although Saudi officials had pre-planned an unspecified operation against Khashoggi we do not know how far in advance Saudi officials decided to harm him.”The report said it had “high confidence” about the 21 people who were involved in the killing on the prince’s behalf.The Saudi foreign ministry said in its statement that “this was an abhorrent crime and a flagrant violation of the Kingdom’s laws and values” by “a group of individuals that have transgressed all pertinent regulations and authorities of the agencies where they were employed. The relevant authorities in the Kingdom took all possible measures within our legal system to ensure that these individuals were properly investigated, and to ensure that justice was served.”It said “the partnership between the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and the United States of America is a robust and enduring partnership.”In advance of the report’s publication, Biden held a call Thursday with King Salman. Biden discussed regional security and the renewed U.S. and United Nations effort to end the war in Yemen. He also “affirmed the importance the United States places on universal human rights and the rule of law,” the White House said in a statement.White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki declined to say Friday whether Biden raised Khashoggi’s death directly or told the king that the report would be released.At least for now, there is no indication that the US plans to sanction the crown prince. That’s in keeping with a broader assessment that he’s destined to be the kingdom’s ruler for years to come and punishing him now would risk alienating a country that, for all its flaws, remains a crucial ally. That left some Democratic lawmakers dissatisfied.“There should be personal consequences for MBS -- he should suffer sanctions, including financial, travel and legal -- and the Saudi government should suffer grave consequences as long as he remains in the government,” Senator Ron Wyden, an Oregon Democrat, said in a statement, using a common abbreviation for the crown prince’s name.‘Khashoggi Ban’After the report was released, Secretary of State Antony Blinken announced sanctions against 76 Saudi individuals under what he called a new “Khashoggi Ban” policy. Under that authority, the US says it will single out anyone who, acting for a foreign government, engages in “counter-dissident activities” beyond that country’s borders.“While the United States remains invested in its relationship with Saudi Arabia, President Biden has made clear that partnership must reflect U.S. values,” Blinken said. “To that end, we have made absolutely clear that extraterritorial threats and assaults by Saudi Arabia against activists, dissidents, and journalists must end.”State Department spokesman Ned Price had told reporters Thursday that the US was looking at other ways to punish the perpetrators of Khashoggi’s killing. Among the options may be cutting back arms sales to Saudi Arabia, he said without elaborating.“I expect that we will be in a position before long to speak to steps to promote accountability going forward for this horrific crime,” Price told reporters in Washington.Democrats in Congress cheered the release of the report, saying that it was the first step toward revamping the US relationship with Saudi Arabia.“The Biden administration will need to follow this attribution of responsibility with serious repercussions against all of the responsible parties it has identified, and also reassess our relationship with Saudi Arabia,” Representative Adam Schiff, chairman of the House Intelligence Committee, said in a statement. “The administration should take further steps to diminish the United States’ reliance on Riyadh and reinforce that our partnership with the Kingdom is a not a blank check.”Economic PowerhouseSaudi authorities didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment on Biden’s decision to release the report, or the prospect of the US imposing sanctions on one of its closest and most important Middle East allies. Saudi Arabia dominates the Gulf Arab region geographically, is its economic powerhouse, and has for decades been a political heavyweight in regional affairs.Goods and services trade between the US and Saudi Arabia amounted to almost $39 billion in 2019, with American exports totaling about $24 billion and imports reaching nearly $15 billion, according to US government figures. That made Saudi Arabia the US’s 27th-largest goods trading partner but one of the biggest customers for American arms.The decision to release the report reflects a return, under Biden, to routine diplomatic channels and traditional US pressure over human rights, even on allies.Trump put Saudi Arabia at the center of his Middle East strategy, making it his first foreign visit. He later abandoned the 2015 nuclear deal with a common enemy, Iran, and reimposed sanctions on Tehran.Trump dismissed concerns about whether the crown prince approved the Khashoggi killing -- “Maybe he did, maybe he didn’t,” he said -- citing the economic rewards of selling arms to the Saudis. His secretary of state, Michael Pompeo, said the US had “no direct evidence” linking the prince to the murder, while Trump’s son-in-law Jared Kushner maintained a close working relationship with him.In contrast, within his first few days in office, Biden put on hold major weapons sales to the kingdom pending review, and announced an end to US support for offensive actions in Yemen, where he wants to wrap up a Saudi-led military intervention that’s contributed to the world’s worst humanitarian crisis.In an overt rebuke, he’s also downgraded relations with Prince Mohammed, who runs the day-to-day affairs of the kingdom and typically liaises directly with foreign leaders. Instead, Biden has called King Salman his official counterpart.Biden will have to navigate the relationship with Saudi Arabia carefully, however, as he seeks to re-engage Iran and persuade it to resume compliance with the nuclear accord. Signaling that being tougher on Saudi Arabia won’t mean he’s soft on Iran, the administration ordered airstrikes overnight on Iranian-backed militias in Syria that it blames for rocket attacks on US forces in neighboring Iraq.In recent days, Saudi newspapers and commentators have emphasized the kingdom’s close relationship with the US.Abdullah Al Tayer, a former Saudi official, said last week on Twitter that any attempt to “target” the king or the crown prince was targeting “the nation and its citizens in their present and their future.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-calls-saudi-prince-s-plot-against-khashoggi-outrageous-101614390972893.html
27-02-2021||World||Eritrean forces killed hundreds of Ethiopian civilians in Nov in Axum: Report||Amnesty International accused Eritrean forces on Friday of killing hundreds of civilians in northern Ethiopia over 24 hours last year, an incident it described as a potential crime against humanity.Eritrea rejected the accusations. But an Ethiopian state human rights body issued a statement that also described such killings, though with fewer details. It was a rare official acknowledgment from Ethiopia that Eritrean troops participated in the conflict during the government's crackdown in the Tigray region last year.Amnesty said it had spoken to 41 witnesses who described the mass killings of "many hundreds of civilians" by Eritrean troops in Axum, an ancient city in northern Ethiopia.The killings took place during a 24-hour period from Nov. 28-29, Amnesty said. That coincides with the date that Ethiopian government forces separately captured Tigray's regional capital Mekelle from forces loyal to a local political party the central government had accused of rebelling.Amnesty said the Axum killings were retaliation for an attack by local militia, and that Eritrean soldiers executed men and boys in the streets and engaged in extensive looting.Eritrea has consistently denied that its troops participated in the conflict on its neighbour's territory. Eritrea's information minister, Yemane Meskel, rejected Amnesty's report."Amnesty made absolutely no attempt to seek any information from Eritrea," he said on Twitter.Reuters spoke to an ethnic Tigrayan man working in construction in the capital Addis Ababa, who said this week that Eritrean soldiers had shot dead six members of his family in Axum on Nov. 28, including his 17-year-old brother and 78-year-old father.“Everything our family had - all the happiness - has turned to darkness,” the man said in a phone interview. Reuters was not able to reach people in Axum itself.ContentiousThe participation of Eritrean forces in fighting in Tigray is among the most contentious issues arising from the conflict. Many Tigrayans say the Ethiopian army drew on support from Eritrean forces, former enemies, in the campaign.Ethiopia has long denied that it allowed Eritrea to send troops to assist the government's military campaign. But it avoided any direct denial of the Amnesty International report on Friday.Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed's Office said in a statement that it welcomed "international technical assistance" in joint investigations into alleged rights violations in Tigray.A confidential US government report says Ethiopian officials and allied militia fighters are leading a systematic campaign of ethnic cleansing in Tigray, according to the New York Times, which said it obtained a copy of the report.Fighters and officials from the neighbouring Amhara region of Ethiopia are "deliberately and efficiently rendering Western Tigray ethnically homogeneous through the organized use of force and intimidation," the Times quoted the report as saying.The Times did not say which US agency prepared the report. The US State Department did not immediately respond to a request for comment from Reuters.The state-run Ethiopian Human Rights Commission released a statement timed to coincide with the Amnesty report, saying preliminary investigations indicated that Eritrean soldiers had killed an unknown number of civilians in Axum.It said the killings were in retaliation for an earlier attack by soldiers of the Tigray People's Liberation Front (TPLF), the region's ousted ruling party.Reports of the mass killing took months to confirm; communications to Tigray were down for many weeks and media access has been tightly restricted, although that is now loosening slightly.Mulu Nega, head of Tigray’s government-appointed interim administration, told Reuters: “The police and the judiciary are investigating.”Axum is a UNESCO World Heritage site, famed for its tall obelisks and ancient churches, including one reputed to house the biblical Ark of the Covenant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/eritrean-forces-killed-hundreds-of-ethiopian-civilians-in-nov-in-axum-report-101614390802191.html
27-02-2021||World||Durham remains special counsel overseeing Trump-Russia probe||US Attorney John Durham said Friday that he will resign from his position as the top federal prosecutor in Connecticut but is remaining as a special counsel to oversee the Justice Department's investigation into the origins of the Russia probe that shadowed Donald Trump’s presidency.Durham will resign from his post as US attorney for Connecticut on Monday. But Durham, who was appointed in October by then-Attorney General William Barr as a special counsel to investigate the origins of the Trump-Russia probe, will remain in that capacity.Like Durham, nearly every other US attorney who served in the Trump administration was asked earlier this month to submit their resignations as the Biden administration moves to transition to its own nominees.The FBI in July 2016 began investigating whether the Trump campaign was coordinating with Russia to sway the outcome of the presidential election. That probe was inherited nearly a year later by special counsel Mueller, who ultimately did not find enough evidence to charge Trump or any of his associates with conspiring with Russia.The early months of the investigation, when agents obtained secret surveillance warrants targeting a former Trump campaign aide, have long been scrutinized by Trump and other critics of the probe who say the FBI made significant errors. A Justice Department inspector general report backed up that criticism but did not find evidence that mistakes in the surveillance applications and other problems with the probe were driven by partisan bias.Durham’s investigation, which the Justice Department has described as a criminal probe, had begun very broadly but Barr said in December that it had “narrowed considerably” and that it was “really is focused on the activities of the Crossfire Hurricane investigation within the FBI.”Durham’s investigation has so far resulted in one prosecution so far. A former FBI lawyer was sentenced to probation last month for altering an email the Justice Department relied on in its surveillance of an aide to President Donald Trump during the Russia investigation.The US attorneys transition process, which happens routinely between administrations, applies to a few dozen US attorneys who were appointed by Trump and confirmed by the Senate and many of the federal prosecutors who were nominated by Trump already left their positions.A senior Justice Department official told the AP earlier this month that David Weiss, the US attorney in Delaware, overseeing the federal tax probe involving Biden’s son, Hunter Biden, will remain in place.The 93 US attorneys serve at the pleasure of the president and are responsible for overseeing offices of federal prosecutors and charged with prosecuting federal crimes in their jurisdictions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/durham-remains-special-counsel-overseeing-trump-russia-probe-101614390151253.html
27-02-2021||World||Joe Biden says he’s launching campaign on Covid-19 vaccine safety, efficacy||President Joe Biden said his administration would undertake a major effort to reassure Americans of the safety and effectiveness of coronavirus vaccines, in order to overcome reticence among some people to take the shots that could end the pandemic.“We’re going to launch a massive campaign to educate people about the vaccines,” Biden said on a visit to a federal mass vaccination site in Houston. “That they are safe and effective and they can go and get those vaccines and be good.”About a quarter of Americans say they won’t take a dose of the coronavirus vaccines, and there is a partisan divide on the issue -- much as around public health guidance to wear masks and take other precautions against infection. More than four in 10 Republicans say they’ll avoid a vaccine if they can, compared to just 10% of Democrats, according to a poll by Monmouth University published Feb. 3.“The vaccines are safe, I promise you, they are safe and effective,” Biden said. “Listen to Dr. Fauci, listen to the scientists.” He was referring to Anthony Fauci, his chief medical adviser.Biden has made curbing the pandemic his top priority. To get there, he needs as many Americans as possible seeking shots in order to reach what’s known as herd immunity, the point when the the virus is unable to easily circulate because so many people have either survived infection or been inoculated.The president visited Houston on Friday both to review the response to an unusual winter storm that nearly collapsed the state’s power grid earlier this month and tout his administration’s vaccine program.Earlier Friday, a new, single-dose coronavirus vaccine from Johnson & Johnson won the unanimous recommendation of a panel of Food and Drug Administration advisers. The shot’s emergency use authorization by the FDA is expected imminently, and the Biden administration has said it would begin delivering millions of doses as soon as next week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-says-he-s-launching-campaign-on-covid-19-vaccine-safety-efficacy-101614389804548.html
27-02-2021||World||Taliban commander killed in security force operation in Pak's Waziristan: Report||A terrorist commander of Pakistan Taliban was killed in an operation in South Waziristan by security forces, the military said on Friday.Tehreek-i-Taliban Pakistan's (TTP) Nooristan alias Hasan Baba, a "high-value target", was killed in an exchange of fire during an operation at a terrorist hideout on Sharwangi, Tiarza in South Waziristan, the Inter-Services Public Relations (ISPR) said.According to the statement, he was involved in the killing of more than 50 security forces' personnel since 2007, Dawn reported"The most sought and wanted terrorist was [an] IED expert and master trainer," the press release said further.Nooristan joined the TTP Baitullah Mehsud group in 2007 and has been involved in several terrorist attacks.He, along with other militants, carried out an attack on a check post in Manra Shawal Dargai in 2008, which resulted in the killing of three Frontier Corps personnel.South Waziristan and North Waziristan, which are two of the seven former semi-autonomous tribal regions in Pakistan also known as FATA, served as headquarters for local and foreign terrorists until 2017.The army claimed it has cleared the mountainous region of terrorists following several operations to eliminate the TTP, according to Al Jazeera.Successive operations have pushed the TTP towards neighbouring Afghanistan.Islamabad claims the group has now set up bases across the border to attack Pakistani security forces and civilians.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/taliban-commander-killed-in-security-force-operation-in-pak-s-waziristan-report-101614386935172.html
27-02-2021||World||Latin America’s Covid vaccine scandal claims third health minister||Ecuador health minister Juan Carlos Zevallos resigned Friday, becoming the third top Latin American health official forced out in two weeks as outrage grows over the ability of the region’s richest and most powerful to obtain vaccinations before the rest of the population.President Lenin Moreno, whose term ends May 24, posted the minister’s resignation letter on Twitter. Zevallos’ departure was quickened after he sent letters to university presidents inviting them to skip the line and after prosecutors launched an investigation into his mother’s vaccination in January.Argentina’s health minister resigned on Feb. 19, as did both the Peruvian health minister and her deputy a week earlier. In both countries, the revelation of VIP vaccinations sent the governments’ cabinets into disarray, as the number of insiders who were vaccinated in secret ballooned to at least 70 in Argentina and nearly 500 in Peru, where a foreign affairs minister was also forced out.In Ecuador, the scandal is primed to do the same.It’s a tender political moment for the country, with a lame-duck government and a runoff presidential election slated for Apr. 11. “Given the current political situation, and for the sake of continuity of the national vaccination plan, I present to you, Mr. President, my resignation,” Zevallos wrote in his exit note. After sharing the letter, Moreno denied in a separate tweet that any of his own close relatives had been vaccinated.Ecuadorians are infuriated that the glacial pace of the vaccination effort didn’t keep well-placed individuals from obtaining the coveted jab. On Friday, octogenarian radio talk-show host Diego Oquendo became the latest non-frontline person to acknowledge getting the shot. Unlike Argentina and Peru, where the governments have published lists of people who received shots early, Zevallos said that patient confidentiality made it impossible to do the same.On Monday, a court in Quito will hear a request by non-governmental organization Accion Juridica Popular to force the Health Ministry to publish a list of people vaccinated to date, one of its representatives, Santiago Machuca, said via Twitter.The presidency and health ministry didn’t immediately respond to telephone calls and text messages seeking information on who will succeed Zevallos.VIP AccessThe VIP line-cutting trend in the Southern Hemisphere is unsurprising due to a trifecta of regional factors. Latin America is not only one of the world’s most economically unequal and corrupt regions, but it’s also where the virus has hit the hardest. Forecasts for complete vaccination in the countries ranges from two years to a decade.Moreno’s government initially bet on deliveries of vaccines bought from Western pharmaceutical companies, but initial Pfizer-BioNTech shipments only included doses for 30,000 people. Before resigning, Zevallos announced that 2 million Sinovac Biotech Ltd. vaccines would arrive in March and April. He also predicted that 9 million Ecuadorians would be inoculated by the end of October.With as many as 6 million of the country’s 17.5 million people already estimated to have contracted Covid-19, those projections would allow the country to develop herd immunity, according to the government. In the meantime, a new variant has also cropped up in the past month.“Zevallos has been an example of what a health minister shouldn’t do,” said epidemiologist Andrea Gomez.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/latin-america-s-covid-vaccine-scandal-claims-third-health-minister-101614386605569.html
27-02-2021||World||Brasilia goes into lockdown as Brazil reels from Covid-19 surge||The governor of Brazil's capital city, Brasilia, decreed a 24-hour lockdown for all but essential services on Friday to curb a worsening COVID-19 outbreak that has filled its intensive care wards to the brim.The drastic step came as right-wing President Jair Bolsonaro, who has repeatedly downplayed the gravity of the pandemic that has killed 250,000 Brazilians, renewed his attacks on state governors for destroying jobs with lockdowns."The lockdown will start today and be total, it will be 24-hours a day," said a press aide for the federal district's Governor Ibaneis Rocha. A decree published at the end of the day said the lockdown would start right after midnight Saturday.Shops, pharmacies, gas stations, churches and funeral parlors will remain open, the aide said, but everything else will shut down, especially bars and restaurants, which were blamed for increased spread during the end of last year and Carnival holidays.Intensive care wards in Brasilia, the third-largest city in Brazil with 3 million inhabitants, are as full as they were at the peak of the pandemic last year, with more than 80% of the beds occupied, the health department said.The situation is as bad or worse in cities across Brazil, with intensive care beds in the capitals of 17 of Brazil's 26 states this week reaching the most critical level since the pandemic began a year ago, according to a report by biomedical center Fiocruz.Bolsonaro, who lives and works in Brasilia, said governors imposing restrictions were doing Brazilians a disservice."What the people most want is to work," he said on a visit to northeastern Brazil on Friday, one day after Brazil recorded its second-worst daily death toll. He threatened to cut off federal emergency pandemic assistance to states resorting to lockdowns."From now on, governors who close down their states will have to provide for their own emergency aid," Bolsonaro said.Brazil has had 65,169 new cases of the novel coronavirus reported in the past 24 hours, and 1,337 deaths from COVID-19, the health ministry said on Friday.The South American country has now registered 10,455,630 cases since the pandemic began, while the official death toll has risen to 252,835, according to ministry data, in the world's third-worst outbreak outside the United States and India and the world's second-deadliest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/brasilia-goes-into-lockdown-as-brazil-reels-from-covid-19-surge-101614385207643.html
27-02-2021||World||UN calls for immediate release of 317 girls abducted from school in Nigeria||The United Nations on Friday called for the immediate release of several hundred schoolgirls kidnapped from a secondary school in northwest Nigeria.Peter Hawkins, a representative of the UN Children's Fund (UNICEF) in the country, urged the assailants to let the teenagers go immediately, Xinhua reported.Scores of students were abducted when the gunman stormed an all-girls school in Nigeria's northwestern state of Zamfara on early Friday, a local official said."We are angered and saddened by yet another brutal attack on schoolchildren in Nigeria," Hawkins said. "This is a gross violation of children's rights and a horrific experience for children to go through -- one which could have long-lasting effects on their mental health and well-being."The president of the 75th session of the UN General Assembly, Volkan Bozkir, tweeted, "I am shocked by today's kidnapping of 317 girls from their school in northwest Nigeria. This is the 3rd mass abduction of children since December in the country.""No child anywhere should be afraid to go to school. I hope the girls are unharmed and will be freed soon," he wrote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/un-calls-for-immediate-release-of-317-girls-abducted-from-school-in-nigeria-101614385325288.html
27-02-2021||World||Boeing CEO asked to testify in Ethiopian 737 MAX crash litigation||Relatives of victims of a Boeing Co 737 MAX crash in Ethiopia that occurred five months after an Indonesian Lion Air disaster are stepping up pressure on the American planemaker and the federal government, according to a court filing and a letter to US lawmakers.Families have called for testimony from Boeing Chief Executive Dave Calhoun, his predecessor and other current and former employees as part of their legal case in Chicago, court documents show.Separately, the families urged lawmakers in letter to demand that the US Federal Aviation Administration turn over internal emails and documents spanning the Lion Air crash and one month after the Ethiopian crash. Together, 346 people died.The letter was sent to members of the House and Senate transportation committees on Friday, including committee head Representative Peter DeFazio and aviation subcommittee chair Representative Rick Larsen.A Congressional official said: "I can confirm that this week Chairs DeFazio and Larsen re-upped their request to DOT (Department of Transportation) for FAA records that have gone unfulfilled to date."A Senate report in December detailed lapses in aviation safety oversight and failed leadership in the FAA. It found that FAA leaders obstructed that report as well as a DOT watchdog review of the regulator's oversight, the results of which were released on Wednesday."There is serious unfinished business," the families said in the letter, reviewed by Reuters.Boeing has mostly settled civil litigation stemming from the Lion Air crash, but still faces over 100 lawsuits in Chicago federal court related to the second crash.The plaintiffs' lawyers are focusing on what Boeing knew about the causes of the first crash and why the plane continued to fly. They want to schedule depositions of Calhoun and Muilenburg between May 3 and June 18.Those victims' families also want to know what FAA management, which in November lifted a 20-month safety ban of the MAX, understood about the first crash.Boeing's board faces a separate investor lawsuit in Delaware Chancery Court, where a complaint unsealed this month alleged breach of fiduciary duties and gross negligence by failing "to monitor the safety of Boeing's 737 MAX airplanes."Last month, Boeing reached a $2.5 billion settlement with the Justice Department over the 737 MAX crashes, including a $243.6 million fine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/boeing-ceo-asked-to-testify-in-ethiopian-737-max-crash-litigation-101614383346031.html
27-02-2021||World||Iran 'can't act with impunity,' Biden says after US air strike||President Joe Biden said Iran cannot act with impunity and warned Iran to "be careful" when asked what message he was sending the country with the US air strikes in Syria."You can't act with impunity. Be careful," Biden told reporters while traveling to survey the damage from a severe winter storm in Texas.The United States carried out air strikes authorized by Biden against facilities belonging to Iranian-backed militia in eastern Syria on Thursday, in response to rocket attacks against US targets in Iraq.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/iran-can-t-act-with-impunity-biden-says-after-u-s-air-strike-101614378830039.html
27-02-2021||World||United States welcomes Indo-Pak ceasefire pact||The United States on Thursday called upon Pakistan to play a “constructive role” in the region, especially across the border in Kashmir and in Afghanistan on its west, in the backdrop of the ceasefire agreement along the Line of Control (LoC) and growing calls from American experts for a re-set in US-Pakistan ties.The United States welcomed the India-Pakistan joint statement – released on Thursday — committing to a ceasefire along the LoC with Ned Price, spokesperson of the state department, saying: “We encourage continued efforts to improve communication between the two sides and to reduce tensions and violence along the Line of Control.”Asked about the trajectory of the relationship between the US and Pakistan under President Joe Biden, Price said Pakistan has an “important role to play” in bringing peace to Afghanistan. He added: “So, clearly we will be paying close attention, and we urge Pakistanis to play a constructive role in all of these areas of mutual interest, including in Afghanistan, including with Kashmir, including with our other shared interests.”The Biden administration’s highest-level contact with the Pakistani government thus far has been between Secretary of State Antony Blinken and Pakistan foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi — they spoke the same day as Blinken and external affairs minister S Jaishankar for the first time. US President Biden and Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan have not spoken yet.“Voices sympathetic to Pakistan in Washington are advocating a re-set of US-Pakistan relations, setting aside the bitterness of the past,” Aparna Pande, a South Asia expert with Hudson Institute, a think tank, wrote in a recent piece. But, she added: “Americans should be wary of plans that draw the US back into embracing Pakistan or depending on it. Pakistan is now China’s closest ally and its overtures to the US are designed only to evade the consequences of its anti-American conduct.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/united-states-welcomes-indo-pak-ceasefire-pact-101614374095995.html
27-02-2021||World||US implicates Saudi crown prince in journalist Jamal Khashoggi's killing||Saudi Arabia's crown prince likely approved an operation to kill or capture a U.S.-based journalist inside the Saudi consulate in Istanbul, according to a newly declassified U.S. intelligence report released Friday that could escalate pressure on the Biden administration to hold the kingdom accountable for a murder that drew bipartisan and international outrage.The central conclusion of the report was widely expected given that intelligence officials were said to have reached it soon after the brutal Oct. 2, 2018, murder of Jamal Khashoggi, a critic of Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman’s authoritarian consolidation of power.Still, since the finding had not been officially released until now, the public assignment of responsibility amounted to an extraordinary rebuke of the ambitious 35-year-old crown prince and was likely to set the tone for the new administration's relationship with a country President Joe Biden has criticized but which the White House also regards in some contexts as a strategic partner.The report was released one day after a later-than-usual courtesy call from Biden to Saudi King Salman, though a White House summary of the conversation made no mention of the killing and said instead that the men had discussed the countries’ longstanding partnership. The kingdom’s state-run Saudi Press Agency similarly did not mention Khashoggi’s killing in its report about the call, rather focusing on regional issues such as Iran and the ongoing war in Yemen.Khashoggi had visited the Saudi consulate in Turkey planning to pick up documents needed for his wedding. Once inside, he died at the hands of more than a dozen Saudi security and intelligence officials and others who had assembled ahead of his arrival.Surveillance cameras had tracked his route and those of his alleged killers in Istanbul in the hours leading up to his killing.A Turkish bug planted at the consulate reportedly captured the sound of a forensic saw, operated by a Saudi colonel who was also a forensics expert, dismembering Khashoggi’s body within an hour of his entering the building. The whereabouts of his remains remain unknown.The prince said in 2019 he took “full responsibility” for the killing since it happened on his watch, but denied ordering it. Saudi officials have said Khashoggi’s killing was the work of rogue Saudi security and intelligence officials. Saudi Arabian courts last year announced they had sentenced eight Saudi nationals to prison in Khashoggi’s killing. They were not identified.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-implicates-saudi-crown-prince-in-journalist-jamal-khashoggi-s-killing-101614364707930.html
27-02-2021||India||In Odisha, 25 students of a technical university test Covid-19 positive||A day after the Odisha government ordered compulsory home isolation of people returning from the states of Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Kerala and Punjab in view of the surge of Covid-19 cases in those states, 25 students staying in hostels of a technology university in western Odisha Sambalpur district tested positive for Covid-19.Officials in Veer Surendra Sai University of Technology at Burla in Sambalpur district said 25 students including a girl student tested positive for Covid-19 in the last 2 days. Vice-chancellor of the university, Bibhuti Bhusan Pati said 16 students were admitted to the temporary quarantine centre inside the campus while 9 others have returned to their homes.Pati said first-year students of the university need not visit the university or its hostel till the situation improves.All classes will be held online from March 1 though the semester exams of the final year will be held in offline mode. Last year, one of the professors of the university had lost her husband to Covid-19.The Odisha govt has asked the school and mass education department to consider intra-school class promotion exams for class 9 and 11 through online exams in view of the Covid-19 scare. Odisha reported 84 new cases of Covid-19 in the past 24 hours.The state government, however, on Saturday allowed the Jatras, operas and open air theatres to hold shows but permitted not more than 2,000 people at a time. The special relief commissioner in a fresh guideline for the month of March said people who will attend the shows will maintain 6 feet distance and the seating arrangement should be made accordingly. People with Influenza like Infection (ILI), severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) and Covid-19 like symptoms will not be allowed at the venues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-odisha-25-students-of-a-technical-university-test-covid-19-positive-101614447352877.html
27-02-2021||India||Fake Co-Win site surfaces as Centre is all set to open registration for vaccines||The Centre on Saturday flagged a fake website impersonating as the official Co-Win website ahead of the second phase of vaccination in which prospective beneficiaries will be allowed to register themselves for vaccination.Accommodating this feature, Co-Win 2.0 will be unveiled on March 1 when the second phase kicks off. But before that a fake website has surfaced, the Centre alerted on Saturday asking people to follow only the ministry's official handle on social media platforms for further update.A website 'https://t.co/OgopT8KLTf' is impersonating the official #CoWIN website & is asking users to register for #COVID19 vaccination using mobile number.#PIBFactCheck: This is a FAKE website. Follow @MoHFW_INDIA for official information related to Covid vaccination drive. pic.twitter.com/Ul4DDCiI4RThis is not the first time that fraudulent attempts have been made to tamper with the ongoing vaccination process. But as in the first phase, registration was internal, there was limited scope. Now, the registration going public, people will have to exercise extra caution against middlemen, fake site links, apps etc.Starting from March 1, senior citizens and people between the age group of 45 and 59 with comorbidities will get vaccinated. To ramp up the process, the government has included private hospitals in this phase where vaccine shots will be given to these priority groups at ₹250.The government has ruled out the possibility of private hospitals charging random prices for vaccines by capping the fee at maximum ₹250 per dose, which includes their service charge. It has also published the list of private hospitals which are part of the process. A list of co-morbidities has also been released by the Centre.Apart from Co-Win registration, there will options for on-site registration in this phase where prospective beneficiaries can walk into identified Covid-19 vaccination centres and get themselves registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fake-co-win-site-surfaces-as-centre-is-all-set-to-open-registration-for-vaccines-101614445311878.html
27-02-2021||India||Union minister Piyush Goyal says he is 'actively pursuing' Airbus to begin manufacturing aeroplanes in India||Union minister Piyush Goyal on Saturday said he is "actively pursuing" Airbus to begin manufacturing aeroplanes in India.Addressing the CEOs session at the country's first Toy Fair 2021, the Commerce and Industry Minister said: "We are looking at world domination in the toy sector and anything short of that would be a terrible disappointment".Narrating an experience from his childhood about a toy setup for planes that influenced him aspire to become a toy manufacturer, the minister said, "It is another matter that I don't think I will be able to do it, but I'm actively pursuing Airbus to try and get them to come to India to start manufacturing aeroplanes in India".He said that no stone will be left unturned to provide support to toy clusters, make business environment easier, get the environment clearances, and compliances with quality regulations.The minister announced that wherever toy clusters are being set-up, Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS) will establish laboratories for testing the quality of products. He also assured that charges for testing will soon be significantly reduced, thereby bringing down the compliance cost of the industry.Goyal urged the industry to focus on improving quality of their products, of component suppliers and meet quality standards, as this is the only way the cultural mindset will become quality conscious and we can engage with the world. He said India as a manufacturer of products will have to provide quality products. “The moment we start making good quality, we will naturally become a player in international trade. It is only the quality culture which will help us to engage with the world and help us to expand our own contribution to resilient supply chains & future businesses," Goyal said.Observing that the Quality Council of India ran a sample test on a variety of Indian & imported toys, he said the toys were found to be unsafe and were of poor quality."This was the origin of the quality control order. I have taken it upon myself to upgrade the quality of Indian products in every sphere. We have to get quality as a defining feature in every work we do in India," Goyal said.He said that under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, this government will work to change the present situation of 85 per cent imports and 15 per cent indigenous production of toys and turn it around 360 degrees.Speaking on the occasion, the Minister of Textiles and Women and Child Development Smriti Irani expressed happiness that The India Toy Fair 2021 inaugurated by the Prime Minister, has received such an overwhelming response, with over 21 lakh registrations, and a large number of exhibitors.Calling upon reimagining Indian toys, she said that they should reflect Indian legacy, heroes and landmarks. Emphasizing on toys' role as a learning tool, Irani said that the industry should make in India for the global market. She said that India itself is a big Toy market and the Indian Toy industry has a bright future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/actively-pursuing-airbus-to-begin-manufacturing-in-india-piyush-goyal-101614444255105.html
27-02-2021||India||Gujarat set for local body polls; AAP, AIMIM emerge as dark horses||Gujarat is gearing up for another set of local body polls scheduled to be held on February 28, after the results of the elections to Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara, Rajkot, Jamnagar and Bhavnagar were declared on February 24.Apart from the two heavyweights in the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Congress, parties like the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM) have also joined the foray.The parties will contest for 81 municipalities, 31 district panchayats and 231 taluka panchayats, the counting for which is scheduled for March 2 as per the Election Commission. Some 3.04 crore people in the state are eligible to vote for these polls, and over 44,000 police personnel, including state reserve police units, 12, CAPF companies and 54,000 home guards, will be in place to ensure incident-free votingThe ruling BJP is on a high after winning all six civic corporation polls, while the Congress believes that the recent hike in fuel prices might derail the party's momentum ahead of the polls.The AAP, led by Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, led a roadshow in Surat after the party's good show in Surat municipal election. In this phase, the APP is fielding 2,097 contestants.Another player in the local body polls this year is Asaduddin Owaisi's AIMIM. The party will contest, for the first time, from the minority-dominated seats in Godhra, Modasa and Bharuch municipalities. Owaisi addressed public gatherings in Modasa and Godhra on Wednesday.Not to be outdone, the BJP, led by state president CR Paatil, organised a roadshow in Navsari on Friday. Congress leader and Leader of Opposition Paresh Dhanani organised a motorcycle rally in Amreli on the same day.State Director General of Police Ashish Bhatia said over 44,000 policemen, including State Reserve Police and 12 companies of CAPF, along with 54,000 homeguards will be deployed on February 28 to ensure smooth and peaceful voting in 23,000 booths.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-set-for-local-body-polls-aap-aimim-emerge-as-dark-horses-101614441558628.html
27-02-2021||India||Social media content blocking provision not new, clarifies Centre||The information and broadcasting ministry on Saturday clarified that interim blocking of social media content in a case of an emergency situation is not a new provision. The provision for the same has been there since 2009. The authority to exercise this provision has only been brought under the ambit of the ministry of information and broadcasting from the ministry of electronics and IT in the recently released guideline — Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code Rules, 2021."It is reiterated - no change in provision has been made nor any new provision has been added on blocking of content under Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021," the I&B ministry said in a statement in the wake of "certain misgivings".This week, the government has unveiled a set of new guidelines going by which As per the new guidelines, social media platforms are required to disclose the first originator of a mischievous tweet or message if they are asked by the government. They are also required to submit a compliance report every month.The social media rules have drawn huge criticism from opposition leaders. Maharashtra IT minister Satej Patil on Saturday said the rules are dictatorial and a threat to democracy. "This move by the Centre needs to be fought tooth and nail. Such dictatorial regulations will not be accepted by the people of this democratic country," he said.In India, there are 53 crore WhatsApp users, 44.8 crore YouTube users, 41 crore Facebook users, 21 crore Instagram users and 1.75 crore Twitter users. The rules have been brought to check the "increasing instances of misuse of social media by criminals, anti-national elements", the government said.However, several false claims are doing rounds after the rules were announced, the government said, busting them one at a time.#ClaimAll social media accounts need to be verified with a Government ID through mobile phones within 3 months.#PIBFactCheckThis claim is Misleading. Verification of accounts is not mandatory.#Conclusion MisleadingRead here- https://t.co/aQr6PDlePs pic.twitter.com/vPaqQqasqoAccording to one fake claim, all social media accounts need to verify with a government ID through mobile phones within 3 months. The rules say users who wish to verify their accounts voluntarily shall be provided with an appropriate mechanism to verify their accounts and provided with a demonstrable and visible mark of verification.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/social-media-content-blocking-not-new-clarifies-centre-101614441771010.html
27-02-2021||India||'Retired from Rajya Sabha not politics, will continue my fight for JK statehood': Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad||Asserting that he had retired only from Rajya Sabha and not politics, Senior Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad Saturday expressed a resolve to continue his fight for the restoration of Jammu and Kashmir's statehood and its residents' special rights over jobs and land.The former chief minister also stressed the importance of unity among the residents of the Union Territory to fight the threats from China and Pakistan and said "we need to stand with our forces against the enemies".Ghulam Nabi Azad retired from the Upper House on February 15."I have retired from Rajya Sabha but not from politics. This is not for the first time that I retired from parliament. Till my last breath, I will continue my services for the nation and will continue my fight for the rights of people," Azad told a 'Shanti Sammelan' organised by the Gandhi Global family here.He was joined by senior party leaders including Kapil Sibal, Manish Tewari, former Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda, Raj Babbar and Anand Sharma.In an apparent reference to the August 5, 2019 development when the Centre revoked J&K's special status and split it into two Union Territories, he said, "We have lost our identity but we will not give up and continue our fight for the restoration of the statehood within and outside parliament.""We want representatives of the people of all the three regions of erstwhile Jammu and Kashmir - Jammu, Kashmir and Ladakh - to form the government. Leh supported the UT status but Kargil is against it. Every party in Jammu - from BJP to RSS and National Conference to PDP and Panthers Party wants statehood back," he said."It is the voice of the people and I challenge anyone to come out with a statement that they do not want the restoration of statehood to J&K," he said.He also said he will continue his fight for the locals’ rights over land and jobs."Jammu and Leh face the immediate threat if outsiders start settling in J&K and Ladakh. We are not against the people coming from outside to get jobs here, but in Jammu and Kashmir, resources are limited as we do not have any big industry here," Azad said.In politics, he said the fight continues to ensure that the people get their rights."Jammu and Kashmir shares its border with China and Pakistan and the enemy is very active unlike any other part of the country. We had many wars in the past but the rift has not ended till date. It is our responsibility that we maintain harmony, peace, love and fight the enemy together," he said, adding it is possible when "we are united and did not fall prey to those who are doing the politics of division".He said every party has a right to come to the power but doing the politics of religion is not good for the country."You need to take everyone along as was done by Congress in the past. The Congress could not have achieved freedom for the country, had it not welcomed everyone from every region, religion and every community including educated people, farmers, traders and labourers, irrespective of their caste and creed," he said.He said the Congress learnt from former prime minister Indira Gandhi that border residents are brave people who fight the enemy alongside the forces and need to be given a special attention."We salute our forces for their bravery in the face of challenges from Pakistan and China. We support them and stand with them against the enemy," he said."World leaders like US president Joe Biden makes a reference to Kashmir soon after taking over. They do not talk about any other place of the country but we have now lost our identity and have to fight for its restoration," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ghulam-nabi-azad-says-will-continue-my-fight-for-j-k-statehood-101614439849379.html
27-02-2021||India||Which private hospitals are Covid-19 vaccine centres? Govt releases list||The Centre on Saturday released a list of private hospitals which will be part of the vaccination programme against Covid-19 starting from March 1. In order to ramp up the vaccination capacity exponentially to meet the demand of the Indian population, private hospitals in large numbers have been involved by the government in this phase.Around 10,000 private hospitals empanelled under Ayushman Bharat PMJAY, more than 600 hospitals empanelled under CGHS and other private hospitals empanelled under State Govts. Health Insurance Schemes can participate as Covid Vaccination Centers (CVCs).Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19"States can use 10,000 hospitals under AB-PMJAY and 687 hospitals under CGHS as Covid-19 vaccination centres (CVCs), who may recover a charge subject to a ceiling of  ₹250 per person per dose," the Union health ministry said.Private hospitals that have been empanelled for the Covid vaccination drive in Delhi include Sir Gangaram Hospital, Centre for Sight, Smile Dental clinic, Medanta Medicity, Sri Balaji Action Medical Institute, Maharaja Agrasain Multispecialty hospital and many more.You can check the private hospital near you empanelled under the Ayushman Bharat PMJAY scheme for Covid vaccination centre through this link (https://www.mohfw.gov.in/pdf/PMJAYPRIVATEHOSPITALSCONSOLIDATED.xlsx).Hospitals empanelled under CGHS in Delhi include Max Super Specialty Hospital, National Heart Institute, Aakash Healthcare Super Specialty Hospital, Institute of Brain and Spine, Maharaja Agrasain Multispecialty hospital and many others.To check the CGHS empanelled hospital for Covid-19 vaccination near you click here (https://www.mohfw.gov.in/pdf/CGHSEmphospitals.xlsx).This collaboration with the private sector healthcare industry comes as the Union ministry of health and family welfare will be expanding the vaccination drive that began on January 16 with the focus on healthcare workers and frontline workers to the common public of certain age groups from March 1.People above the age of 60 and those within the age of 45-59 years with comorbidities specified by the government will be vaccinated against the coronavirus disease from next month.Also Read | Centre backs testing, identifying mutant strain in 8 Covid-19 hotspot statesThe private health facilities have been ordered to strictly adhere to the norms of Covid vaccination that includes quality and safety regulation and integration with National Co-Win technology.In addition to private, government health facilities like medical college hospitals, district hospitals, sub-divisional hospitals, CHCs, PHCs, Health Sub Centers and Health and Wellness Centers will also be used as Covid vaccination centresThe government CVCs will inoculate for free with the central government bearing the full cost of vaccination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/which-private-hospitals-are-covid-19-vaccine-centres-govt-releases-list-101614437248338.html
27-02-2021||India||News updates from HT: PM Modi to address 'Mann Ki Baat' tomorrow and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.PM Modi to address the nation on Mann Ki Baat tomorrow at 11amPrime Minister Narendra Modi will address the nation during the 74th edition of his monthly radio programme, Mann Ki Baat, at 11am on Sunday. PM Modi had sought ideas and suggestions from people on his social media accounts earlier this month about topics for Mann Ki Baat where he addresses the country over a range of issues. Read moreIAF chief flies Mirage 2000 to mark 2nd anniversary of Balakot operationsIndian Air Force chief Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria on Saturday flew in a multi-aircraft formation from a premier air base in central India to mark the second anniversary of the Balakot operations - India’s unprecedented, peace time cross-border strikes on the back of the February 2019 Pulwama terror attack, people familiar with the developments said. Read moreCongress getting weak, says Kapil Sibal at G-23 meet in JammuCongress leader Kapil Sibal said Saturday that the party is "getting weak" and that it needed the services of Ghulam Nabi Azad who recently retired from the Rajya Sabha to strengthen it. Read moreCM Nitish Kumar bats for judiciary’s role in establishing rule of law in BiharChief Justice of India SA Bobde on Saturday praised Chief Minister Nitish Kumar’s “deep insight into the purpose of law, the purpose of the courts and his interpretation of the principles of theory of the separation of power without mentioning it.” Read moreBiden’s Covid relief plan: Here’s who could be eligible for $1,400 direct paymentsThe US House of Representatives early Saturday approved a $1.9 trillion stimulus plan in a partisan vote as the Republicans unanimously opposed the bill. If passed in Senate, the coronavirus relief plan, pushed by President Joe Biden, would provide the third round of federal stimulus checks to millions of American households. Read moreRealme 7 review: The better siblingRealme is a brand that needs no introduction, especially if you are living in India. Over the past several years, the company has earned quite a reputation for launching flagship-level phones every six months. The latest smartphone series to enter this chain is the Realme 7 series. Read moreWill India lose WTC points if ICC rates Ahmedabad pitch as 'poor'? All scenarios explainedThe debate on pitches has somewhat taken the focus away from the on-field cricket in the ongoing India vs England Test series. If the second Test in Chennai acted as the initiator, the Ahmedabad pitch for the third Test match took the debate to a whole new level with former cricketers from India and England giving different opinions. Read moreBabil gets emotional as he finds old WhatsApp chat with Irrfan Khan: ‘I was almost about to text him back’Babil Khan was cleaning old messages from his phone when he stumbled upon a WhatsApp conversation with his father, late actor Irrfan Khan. He shared a screenshot of the texts on Instagram and described the feeling as ‘intense on a level I could not explain’. Read moreRoohi promotions: Janhvi Kapoor goes backless and bold in Mumbai summersGhost Stories actor Janhvi Kapoor has been making waves for her dance in the newest song Panghat from her upcoming movie -horror comedy Roohi. The young actor has been keeping busy with the promotions of the movie, which also stars Rajkummar Rao and Varun Sharma, and has been donning some stunning, brightly coloured outfits for the same. Read moreGirls like to swing: Group’s groovy dance in saree wows netizensA group of women have grabbed the attention of netizens with their applause-worthy choreography to a popular Bollywood song while donning a saree. Shared on Instagram, the video features four members Lekhinee, Twaraa, Charvi and Apurva. The peppy dance choreography may make you get up and shake a leg to the beat too. Read moreWatch: IAF jets destroy long-range target to mark 2 yrs of Balakot air strike||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-pm-modi-to-address-mann-ki-baat-tomorrow-and-all-the-latest-news-101614436286054.html
27-02-2021||India||Squadron that carried out Balakot operation makes long-range practice strike||Ahead of the two-year anniversary of the Balakot strike, pilots of the squadron who carried out the operation held a long-range precision strike against a practice target.In another event to commemorate the event, Indian Air Force (IAF) chief RKS Bhadauria on Saturday flew in a Mirage 2000, part of a multi-aircraft sortie, with the same squadron pilots. The five-aircraft formation consisted of Mirage 2000s and Sukhoi-30 fighters.#WATCH: IAF carried out a long-range precision strike against a practice target to mark the second anniversary of the Balakot Operations. The strike was carried out by members of the same Sqn who carried out the actual operations. pic.twitter.com/CPMhfQZaZt"The IAF chief flew with pilots from the squadrons that were part of the operations. When the head of the force flies, it shows that our commanders lead from the front. It also signifies that the IAF is proud of the professionalism and combat training status of its cutting-edge fleets," said Air Marshal Anil Chopra (retd), director general, Centre for Air Power Studies.Two years ago, the Indian Airforce crossed the border in the disputed region of Kashmir and dropped bombs to destroy a Jaish-e-Mohammed camp in Pakistan's Balakot. The target camp was some 80 kilometers away from the Line of Control (LoC). The strike was in response to a suicide attack by JeM terrorists  in Jammu and Kashmir's Pulwama district just days before. As many as 40 Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) troopers were killed in the attack. The attack that pushed India and Pakistan to the brink of war was carried out on February 14, 2019. After the attack, an aerial engagement between the two countries took place in which Wing Commander Abhinandan Varthaman, flying an upgraded MiG-21 Bison, had fought and shot down one of the Pakistani fighter jets before he was hit and forced to eject. Pakistan returned him to India on March 1 after holding him captive for almost 60 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/squadron-that-carried-out-balakot-op-make-long-range-practice-strike-101614437454149.html
27-02-2021||India||On Balakot anniversary, IAF video shows jets bombing target with Spice 2000 bombs||Indian Air Force chief Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria on Saturday flew in a multi-aircraft formation from a premier air base in central India to mark the second anniversary of the Balakot operations - India’s unprecedented, peace time cross-border strikes on the back of the February 2019 Pulwama terror attack, people familiar with the developments said.Bhadauria flew a Mirage 2000, the aircraft that was used for bombing Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) targets in Pakistan’s Balakot on February 26, 2019, said one of the officials cited above. “The IAF chief flew with pilots from the squadrons that were part of the operations,” he said. The five-aircraft formation consisted of Mirage 2000s and Sukhoi-30 fighters.Watch: IAF jets destroy long-range target to mark 2 yrs of Balakot strikeThe IAF’s Mirage 2000s hit three targets in Balakot with five Israeli-origin Spice 2000 bombs with penetrator warheads that allowed them to pierce through the rooftops before exploding inside to cause maximum damage. While the actual bombing was carried out by the Mirages, Su-30s were part of the IAF’s strike package that day.The IAF chief flying the Mirage 2000 with the squadron that carried out the operations is a reaffirmation of the success of the mission at the highest level, said Air Marshal Anil Chopra (retd), director general, Centre for Air Power Studies.“When the head of the force flies solo, it shows that our commanders lead from the front. It also signifies that the IAF is proud of the professionalism and combat training status of its cutting-edge fleets,” Chopra said.IAF on Tuesday also released a video of a precision strike carried out by Mirage 2000s against a dummy target in Rajasthan to mark the second anniversary of the cross-border air strikes. “The strike was carried out by members of the squadron that carried out the actual operations,” the official said. The fighter jets dropped Spice 2000 bombs on the practice target.“The Spice 2000 live mission by the squadron clearly sends a message that the IAF's sword blade remains sharp, and ready to penalise a belligerent adversary,” Chopra added.Each bomb that hit the JeM targets carried around 80 kg of explosives in a 900-kg steel casing, with the explosion caused by time-delay fuses sending a lethal quantity of shrapnel that instantly killed the occupants. The bombs hit their targets in a vertical attack angle, leaving holes measuring 80 to 90 cm in diameter on the rooftops of the structures, as previously reported by Hindustan Times.The air strikes against the terror base were in response to the Pakistan-backed Pulwama suicide car bomb attack in which 40 Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) personnel were killed on February 14, 2019.Also Read: A rare phone call, secret letter: How India got Pak to release IAF’s AbhinandanPakistan Air Force fighters made a failed attempt to bomb Indian military installations on February 27, leading to an aerial engagement along the Line of Control during which Wing Commander Abhinandan Varthaman scripted military aviation history by downing an F-16, seconds before his own MiG-21 Bison was hit by a missile forcing him to eject. He was captured after he bailed out of his aircraft, but Pakistan returned him to India on March 1 after holding him captive for almost 60 hours.He was later awarded the Vir Chakra, India’s third-highest wartime gallantry award.The citation, published in the Gazette of India in December 2019, said his aggressive manoeuvres forced enemy fighters into tactical chaos and he courageously engaged the hostile aircraft package despite its numerical and technological superiority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iaf-chief-flies-mirage-2000-to-mark-2nd-anniversary-of-balakot-operations-101614435945744.html
27-02-2021||India||PM Modi to address the nation on Mann Ki Baat tomorrow at 11am||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the nation during the 74th edition of his monthly radio programme, Mann Ki Baat, at 11am on Sunday. PM Modi had sought ideas and suggestions from people on his social media accounts earlier this month about topics for Mann Ki Baat where he addresses the country over a range of issues.Earlier this month, the Prime Minister had invited people of the country to share their inspiring stories in the field of art, culture and tourism."Through inspiring examples, January's #MannKiBaat highlighted diverse topics ranging from art, culture, tourism and agri innovation. Would love to hear more such motivating anecdotes for the programme in February, which will take place on the 28th," PM Modi tweeted and shared a link for the people inviting ideas for the next 'Mann Ki Baat'.The programme which is held on the last Sunday of every month will take place on February 28 this month.Prime Minister Modi also shared a toll-free number for people to record their message in either Hindi or English."PM Narendra Modi looks forward to sharing his thoughts on themes and issues that matter to you. The Prime Minister invites you to share your ideas on topics he should address on the 74th Episode of Mann Ki Baat," the Government of India said in a statement.In his previous address, PM Modi had lauded differently-abled man for his contribution towards cleanliness and Rourkela-based girl for her cloth-based scroll paintings 'Pattachitra'.In the 73rd edition of 'Mann ki Baat', PM Modi had hailed the Indian cricket team for their Test series win against Australia, saying that the team's hard work and teamwork were inspiring.He had also appealed the people to write about freedom fighters and stories of their struggle to mark the country's 75th Independence Day this year.The Prime Minister said that such writings will be the ideal tribute to the freedom fighters to mark India's 75th Independence Day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-address-the-nation-on-mann-ki-baat-tomorrow-at-11am-101614428883453.html
27-02-2021||India||Congress getting weak, says Kapil Sibal at G-23 meet in Jammu||Congress leader Kapil Sibal said Saturday that the party is "getting weak" and that it needed the services of Ghulam Nabi Azad who recently retired from the Rajya Sabha to strengthen it.At a public event in Jammu, Sibal, who shared a stage with other members of G-23 - senior leaders who had written an open letter to party president Sonia Gandhi demanding sweeping changes in the Congress, said there is an urgent need to boost the party.“This is an occasion and podium to speak truth and the truth is that Congress is getting weak and therefore we have assembled here to make it strong together,” Sibal said.He went to say that Azad is indispensable for the revival of the Congress.“Now, what is the real role of Ghulam Nabi Azad… we need an experienced pilot to fly a plane and an engineer to fix any technical snag. Azad is an experienced pilot and an engineer too. Why am I saying this because he knows the reality of the Congress in every state and district. And, when we realized that Azad is being freed from Parliament we felt sad. We never wanted him to be freed from Parliament”.“He knows all the leaders personally. All the leaders used to meet at his residence. It can only be done by an experienced leader. I fail to understand why Congress is not using his experience.”Sibal said that they want the party to be strengthened in every state and every village because if the Congress weakens then the country will be weakened too.The Congress leader also took a swipe at Prime Minister Narendra Modi saying, “Today the problem India confronts that she has a rajneta (leader) whose sole ambition is to empower his party and not the people of the country.”Manish Tiwari, Anand Sharma, Bhupinder Hooda, Raj Babbar and Vivek Tankha were among others who attended the Shanti Sammelan.Azad, who turned nostalgic in his speech as he traced his association with the Congress, also attacked the BJP government for dividing and the downgrading the state of Jammu and Kashmir into two union territories on August 5, 2019.“One and a half years ago we were dismembered... the state was shredded into pieces and today we are being divided in the name of religion and regions,” he said.Azad said that world leaders from US, UK , Africa, Australia, China, Canada are more familiar with Kashmir than any other Indian state.“Even the new US president Joe Biden talked about Kashmir.. so there is not a single leader who doesn’t know about Kashmir but today we have been reduced into a UT,” he said.“But we will keep fighting for statehood in the Parliament and outside till we get it,” he asserted.He also criticized the BJP government for imposing all sorts of taxes on the people of Jammu and Kashmir.“While there are no jobs, development and unemployment is at its peak, the government has burdened the people with a slew of taxes,” he said.Amid a euphoric audience, Azad said, “I have retired from Rajya Sabha but not from politics and I haven’t retired from the Parliament for the first time. I dive here and emerge there and I emerge here and dive there. So, there is no need to lose heart.”Other Congress leaders Anand Sharma, Manish Tiwari, Bhupinder Hooda, Raj Babbar and Vivek Tankha also addressed the rally.Anand Sharma said that for the first time since the 1950s, Jammu and Kashmir does not have a representative in the Rajya Sabha but it will be “corrected” soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-getting-weak-says-kapil-sibal-at-g-23-meet-in-jammu-101614434344712.html
27-02-2021||India||Maharashtra sees spike of 8,623 fresh Covid-19 cases, Mumbai cases drop to 987||The gap between new infections and daily recoveries is increasing in Maharashtra as the state is seeing a steady rise of fresh Covid-19 infections. For the fourth consecutive day on Saturday, the state reported over 8,000 fresh infections. With 8,623 new cases and 3,638 recoveries, the Covid-19 curve of the state remains at a critical juncture. Mumbai, on the other hand, reported a dip for the first time in the past few days as with 987 cases, its daily toll fall below 1,000.On Friday, the state reported 8,333 fresh cases while Mumbai's addition to it was 1,035. On Thursday, the state reported 8,702 fresh cases out of which 1,145 were in Mumbai.Maharashtra districts are already on their guards as Amravati extended its ongoing lockdown for another week on Saturday. Lockdown has also been extended in Akola, Akot, Murjitnagar. Latur is observing voluntary Janata lockdown this weekend to contain the spread of the infections.The spurt in the number of cases began in the second week of February, which is being seen as a result of general laxity, mutation of Covid-19 strains and unlocking. Restrictions have been imposed in the districts while surveillance has been strengthened in Mumbai. As the 11 districts of the Vidarbha region have become epicentres of what is being called the second wave of infection in the state, other districts have isolated this region by imposing travel restrictions. Washim in the Aurangabad division has emerged as a hotbed of infections after 229 schools students and three staff members were found positive at a hostel in the district. The priest and 18 other staff of Washim's Poharadevi temple also tested positive on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-sees-spike-of-8-623-fresh-covid-19-cases-mumbai-cases-drop-to-987-101614434836890.html
27-02-2021||India||HP speaker lodges complaint against Cong MLAs for 'manhandling' Guv||Himachal Pradesh Speaker Vipin Parmar has lodged an FIR against the five Congress MLAs suspended from the state assembly for the entire Budget session after they allegedly manhandled Governor Bandaru Dattatraya.The Speaker told PTI that the FIR was lodged at 3 pm on Friday. The Speaker said he will give details about the case after reaching Shimla on Monday.Earlier on Saturday, Assembly Secretary Yash Paul Sharma had told PTI that the Speaker has submitted a formal complaint to DGP Sanjay Kundu for registering an FIR against the Congress legislators.Meanwhile, police did not give any details about the case with the DGP saying as the Assembly session in progress, they can inform about it only to the Speaker.The alleged incident had taken place outside the Speaker's office on Friday when the Governor was leaving for the Raj Bhavan after he cut short his address in the House following a ruckus created by the Congress on the opening day of the Budget session.After the incident, the Speaker suspended Leader of Opposition Mukesh Agnihotri and four other Congress MLAs Harsh Vardhan Chauhan, Satpal Raizada, Sunder Singh and Vinay Kuma for the entire Budget session till March 20 on a motion moved by Parliamentary Affairs Minister Suresh Bhardwaj.Speaker Vipin Parmar had said the Opposition members hit on the Governor's back with copies of his address. They also hit the bonnet of the Governor's car, the Speaker had said.Commenting over the issue, suspended Congress MLA Harsh Vardhan Chauhan had told PTI on Friday that they were waiting outside the Speaker’s office and just wanted to ask the Governor why he cut short his address but they were not allowed to do so.He alleged that it was Deputy Speaker Hans Raj who manhandled the MLAs, a charge denied by Parliamentary Affairs Minister Suresh Bhardwaj, who said the Congress legislators had planned to create a scene.Chauhan also said they did not have any intention of manhandling the governor."If any FIR is registered against us, we will not go to the court for bail, rather we will prefer to be arrested," he had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hp-speaker-lodges-complaint-against-cong-mlas-for-manhandling-guv-101614429663724.html
27-02-2021||India||Education Minister says other countries want to implement India's NEP||Topmost institutes as well as various countries have hailed India's National Education Policy (NEP) 2020 as the world's "biggest reform" and shown interest in implementing it, said Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal "Nishank" on Saturday.The minister, who was addressing the 97th annual convocation of Delhi University, said the new education policy that has been brought into place after "much deliberation" will see India "reform, perform and transform".He also praised the policy calling it "impactful, interactive, innovative and inclusive" built on the cornerstone of "equity, quality and access"."Cambridge, the UAE, Australia, Mauritius, Indonesia, .. and many others have said India's NEP is the world's biggest reform and that they want to implement in their countries as well. It is both national and international, supports 'vocal for local' and also local for global. This will bring a new set of opportunities for students," said Nishank, encouraging Delhi University to be the "flag-bearer" of the policy and implement it in "mission-mode".The NEP, approved by the Union Cabinet, replaces the 34-year-old National Policy on Education framed in 1986. It is aimed at paving the way for transformational reforms in school and higher education systems to make India a global knowledge superpower.The 61-year-old leader here also counted on the various achievements of India's education system during the pandemic year. Like how it worked tirelessly in implementing "digital education", transformed homes into schools and didn't let the year go waste for India's 33 crore students -- more than the total population of the USA.To give an idea of how herculean the task was, the minister even shared the data on the size of Indian education system: "1,000 universities", "50,000 degree colleges", "15 lakh schools" and "1.10 crore teachers"."We conducted the exams on time, the results were out on time, and also JEE or NEET -- world's biggest examination in the corona era -- were conducted successfully. Also, we provided online education to 33 crore students. This was huge, something that you don't even think of in your dreams, but we did it and did it successfully," he noted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/education-minister-says-other-countries-want-to-implement-india-s-nep-101614434350303.html
27-02-2021||India||Centre backs testing, identifying mutant strain in 8 Covid-19 hotspot states||The Centre on Saturday emphasised heavily on testing and identifying the mutant strains among other measures in the 6 Indian states worst affected by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), resulting in the surge in the country's daily caseload.This comes after Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba chaired a high-level review meeting with chief secretaries of states and Union territories and stressed the need for effective testing, comprehensive tracking, prompt isolation of positive cases and quick quarantine of close contacts.Maharashtra, Punjab, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, West Bengal, Telangana and Jammu and Kashmir are the eight states and UTs reporting a high active caseload or an increasing trend in new cases in the last week, data by the health ministry showed.Gauba has asked the states need to maintain a continued rigorous vigil in terms of containing the spread and not squander away the gains of the collective hard work of the last year. The states have been advised not to lower their guard, enforce Covid-19 appropriate behaviour and deal firmly with violations.The Cabinet secretary has asked states to reduce the surge in cases by taking these steps:Six states - Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Gujarat- have shown a surge in new cases in the last 24 hours.Maharashtra continues to report the highest daily new cases at 8,333. It is followed by Kerala with 3,671 while Punjab reported 622 new cases in the last 24 hours. In the last two weeks, Maharashtra has shown the highest rise in active cases from 34,449 on February 14 to 68,810 currently.The review meeting was attended by the Chief Secretaries and senior health professionals of the States and UTs along with the Union Health Secretary, Director General of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), NITI Aayog Empowered Group members, and representatives from the Home Ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-backs-testing-identifying-mutant-strain-in-8-covid-19-hotspot-states-101614432633742.html
27-02-2021||India||Are Mumbai locals responsible for Covid-19 spike? Here's what BMC data reveals||The sudden spike in the number of daily infections in Mumbai has been partially attributed to the resumption of suburban train services for the general public. Though no direct link between the two has been scientifically proven, data from Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation shows the sudden spike in daily cases started from February 10 with ups and downs in between. From February 17, the cases are on a steady rise. The number of Covid-19 cases in Panvel, Navi Mumbai, Thane — areas which are covered by Mumbai locals — has increased as well.According to BMC data, the number of single-day cases remained around 400 in the first week of February, with one exception on February 3, when the number of cases rose to 503.Maharashtra govt may restrict train travel for general public again in MumbaiHere is how the Covid-19 numbers were in the first week of February in MumbaiFebruary 1: 328February 2: 334February 3: 503February 4: 463February 5: 415February 6: 414February 7: 448In the second week, a spike was reported on February 10, when the city reported 558 cases, the highest so far in February. On February 14, a spike of 645 cases was reported.February 8: 399February 9: 375February 10: 558February 11: 510February 12: 599February 13: 529February 14: 645In the third week, the number was stable initially, but from February 17, a steep rise has been noticed.February 15: 493February 16: 461February 17: 721February 18: 736February 19: 823February 20: 897February 21: 921After reporting 760 and 643 cases on February 22 and 23, respectively, cases saw a huge jump and crossed the 1,000-mark. On February 24, 25, and 26, cases remained at 1,167, 1,145, and 1,034, respectively.The state government allowed the general public to travel in suburban trains in non-peak hours excluding 9am to 12 pm and 4pm to 9pm from February 1. This resulted in around 3.3 million passengers travelling every day on three lines in local train services.In January, Mumbai locals were restricted to essential and emergency staff, teachers, lawyers and women travellers.However, the resumption of Mumbai locals is not the only reason behind the spike as the spike is noticeable across the state, not only to where suburban rails ply. Relief and rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar that the state government was thinking of rescheduling the train timing in the wake of the rising cases. “We will not completely restrict the general public from commuting on the train, but will reschedule the timings,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/is-mumbai-s-covid-19-spike-linked-to-mumbai-locals-here-s-what-bmc-data-reveals-101614433162169.html
27-02-2021||India||Central govt should cut its tax on fuel, says Tamil Nadu govt||The Centre should come forward to reduce its tax on petroleum products since the resources for State's own tax revenue is meagre, Tamil Nadu Deputy Chief Minister O Panneerselvam told the Assembly on Saturday. Panneerselvam, pointing to accusations by the main opposition DMK over the interim budget (2021-22), said a flawed view, holding the state government responsible for the petrol and diesel price rise, was being propagated. "There is no iota of truth in such a view," he said replying to the general discussion on budget.Referring to aspects like global economic cyclical changes vis-a-vis the coronavirus pandemic, he said the state government last year modified the system of taxation on petrol and diesel anticipating abnormal changes in prices of petroleum products. "If the old system had been followed there may have been a scope for the state government to get more revenue during price rise. However, to guard the people from price rise, the government changed the taxation system," Panneerselvam, who holds the finance portfolio, said. The ad valorem tax was brought to 15 per cent from 24 per cent in addition to a specific tax of ₹13.02 per litre last year, he noted. For diesel, ad valorem tax was fixed at 11 per cent from the previous 25 per cent plus ₹9.62 per litre and the modified system was in vogue from May 4, 2020, he said. To protect its tax revenue from petrol and diesel notwithstanding a fall in global crude prices the Central government increased excise duty several times, he said. However, there was no change in tax system in Tamil Nadu from 2011 to 2017. "Additional cess and surcharges are being levied by the Central government," he said, adding, state taxes alone were not the reason behind the increase in fuel prices. In view of the Centre's additional cess and surcharges, the revenue to the state government has also been hit, he said. While the Centre's excise duty mop-up increased 48 per cent during April-November 2020, the Tamil Nadu's government's excise revenue share slid by 39.40 per cent, he said. "We are duty bound to urge the Central government to come forward to reduce its tax on petroleum products as the resources for State's own tax revenue is meagre," he said. Amid an outcry over record high petrol and diesel prices, Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had recently said the Centre and state governments would have to together work out a mechanism to bring retail rates to reasonable levels. Targeting DMK, the Deputy CM said members of the main opposition used to stage walkout after chatting in the House briefly and they had never respected their democratic duty of taking part in House proceedings. Panneerselvam said, "DMK deputy leader Duraimurugan has said tdhat they would come to the House only after M K Stalin assumes office as the Chief Minister." "Stalin is not going to become the Chief Minister and DMK men are never going to visit the Assembly. They would face defeat in Assembly polls," he added.Tamil Nadu would go to polls on April 6 along with Puducherry and Kerala.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/new-covid-19-clusters-have-emerged-in-bengaluru-official-101614432302517.html
27-02-2021||India||Making PM Modi's schemes flourish will be real tribute to saint Ravidas: Nadda||BJP national president Jagat Prakash Nadda on Saturday said real tributes can be paid to saint Ravidas by working to make policies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi flourish till the grassroots level."It is our responsibility to follow the path by Guru Ravidas ji to create a strong and capable India. We will work to make Prime Minister Narendra Modi ji's schemes flourish at the grassroots level. This will be our real tribute to saint Ravidas ji," said Nadda while addressing a gathering after paying tributes to poet-saint Ravidas on the occasion of his birth anniversary at the BJP headquarters in the national capital.He further said that while imbibing the life of Saint Ravidas, people can dedicate themselves to social work through the path shown by him.Nadda also paid floral tributes to the poet at BJP headquarters."On the occasion of the birth anniversary of the great saint Guru Ravidas ji, who played an important role in eradicating social evils with his masterpieces, paid floral tributes to him. His philosophy full of unity and harmony is relevant even today. His every thought is the mantra of social service for our government."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/making-pm-modi-s-schemes-flourish-will-be-real-tribute-to-saint-ravidas-nadda-101614430069868.html
27-02-2021||India||Explosives scare near Ambani's house: Cops looking for other car||Two days after a vehicle with explosives was found near the residence of industrialist Mukesh Ambani here, police are looking for the other car which had been seen at the spot, an official said on Saturday.The Crime Branch of Mumbai police has recorded the statements of 25 persons in its probe so far, he said.Police teams are trying to track down the Innova in which the driver of the parked vehicle with explosives -- a Scorpio SUV -- was seen leaving.The investigators have checked the footage of hundreds of CCTVs on the route the two cars took but have not found any clues yet, the official said.No terror angle has emerged in the probe so far, he said.A Scorpio with 2.5 kg of gelatin sticks, an explosive material, was found near `Antilia', the multi-storey house of Ambani, chairman of Reliance Industries, on Thursday evening.A letter found inside the SUV purportedly threatened Ambani and his family.The Scorpio had been stolen from Mulund area a week ago, police said.CCTV footage showed that the Scorpio, alongwith the Innova, reached the spot in the early hours of Thursday, and the driver of Scorpio then got down and left in the other vehicle.The Innova was then seen, in CCTV footage, exiting Mumbai and entering Thane, after which its trace was lost.The police were also investigating from where the gelatin sticks were procured, the official said.The seized Scorpio has been sent for forensic examination, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/explosives-scare-near-ambani-s-house-cops-looking-for-other-car-101614431028853.html
27-02-2021||India||Ashok Gehlot and Sachin Pilot attack Centre for 'stubborn stand' on farm laws||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot and his former deputy Sachin Pilot on Saturday shared a helicopter ride for the first time in more than a year as they flew to address two Kisan Mahapanchayat at Shri Dungargarh in Bikaner and Matrikundiya in Chittorgarh where they attacked the Centre for its stand on the contentious farm laws.The two leaders tried to present a united face ahead of the assembly bypolls in four seats in the state. In at least two of these seats, the Gujjars have a significant presence, making it difficult for the Congress to sideline Pilot anymore.During Congress leader Rahul Gandhi’s two-day visit to Rajasthan on February 12 and 13, PCC chief Govind Singh Dotasra was given preference at the cost of Pilot in a series of political rallies held then.“The Central government is stubborn and is not ready to listen to the farmers who are sitting on protest in extreme weather conditions for the last 90-days,” said Gehlot in Shri Dungargarh.“Journalist, activists are being arrested. A 21-years-old girl was arrested from Bengaluru. We have seen many governments, but this is happening for the first time. Governments are not meant to be stubborn,” he said.The chief minister said his government has brought a bill to counter the three farms laws passed by the Centre, but they are still awaiting the governor’s consent.“One can understand how much pressure he must be under. The Centre can easily resolve the farmers issue by taking back the new laws. How can this government sleep? The Centre should bring new laws. We are with the farmers and in the recently announced state budget we announced that separate budget for farmers form next year. We announced payments of ₹1000 per month to farmers. We waived farmers’ loan of ₹8,000 crores. Our priority is always the wish of farmers,” Gehlot said.Gehlot also appealed to the people to vote for the development works done by the Congress party. “Your blessings should continuously shower on us. Four bypolls are coming soon. Nobody thought that four MLAs would leave us like that. I can understand what their families and you people must be going through. Late Master Bhanwarlal Meghwal always worked in the interest of the people of Bikaner. If you vote for our victory, then our government will become stronger.”The bypolls are scheduled in Sujangarh, Rajsamand, Sahada and Vallabhgarh where the MLAs died between October 2020 and January 2021.In Matrikundiya, former deputy CM Sachin Pilot said that Congress party was working to create awareness about the farm laws.“Our leader Rahul Gandhi in his meeting with farmers said that the farmers are the spine of our country and they are being attacked through these farm laws. The Centre wants to forcefully impose laws on the farmers. Through these laws the Centre has ended laws on stock limit and wants to give profit to few people,” he said.Pilot added, “The Prime Minister is not ready to listen to the farmers. Our leader Sonia Gandhi had united 24 political parties against the farm laws. They want to shut all the mandis. Through these laws, farmers will become labourers on their own land.”He praised the state budget and asked the people to vote for Congress in the bypolls.“The state budget was very good. The Opposition is left with nothing to say against us. We fought against the state government when we only had 21 MLAs. The Congress is united and together. It is unfortunate that we lost four of our MLAs. Very soon bypolls will be also held. It is our (party workers’) duty to ensure the victory of our candidates in the bypolls,” he said.Pilot also hit out at the BJP government at the Centre over rising fuel prices. “The laws made by the Centre are not only against farmers but also against the common man. The price of petrol is ₹100, cylinder is ₹800 and unemployment is at peak. We need to remain aware," he said.Ajay Maken, Congress leader in-charge of Rajasthan said that the three farm laws are beneficial for few corporations “Before passing any bill, suggestions are taken from the concerned, but these laws were brought without consulting anybody. These laws will end the MSP and mandi system,” he said.Maken added that Congress will continue to fight for the people against the farm laws, rising fuel prices and other issues of public interest.The opposition BJP claimed that the Congress was simply trying to regain losty ground.Bharatiya Janata Party's (BJP) Rajasthan unitr chief Satish Poonia said, “In the name of farmers, Congress is trying to find its lost ground among the people.”He added that generally it is the perception that the party in power wins the bypolls but the Congress government is afraid that after performing poorly in the panchayat elections it will lose in the assembly bypolls too.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ashok-gehlot-and-sachin-pilot-attack-centre-for-stubborn-stand-on-farm-laws-101614430890230.html
27-02-2021||India||Amarinder Singh announces ₹50 lakh ex-gratia for kin of Punjab solider killed in Leh||Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Saturday announced an ex-gratia of ₹50 lakh, along with a government job to a family member of Naib Subedar Parwinder Singh from Punjab, who laid down his life in high altitude area of Batalik sector (Leh) along the Line of Control (LoC).According to a press statement issued by the Chief Minister, the Junior Commissioned officer is survived by his father, wife and two sons aged 11 and 13 years.Extending his sympathies to the family of the deceased soldier, the Chief Minister said, "The state government would provide all possible help and support to the family of the deceased subedar."The mortal remains of Subedar Parwinder will be reaching his native place in Jagraon on February 28 and the cremation would be held on the same day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amarinder-singh-announces-rs-50-lakh-ex-gratia-for-kin-of-punjab-solider-killed-in-leh-101614430733228.html
27-02-2021||India||Rooster kills owner with cockfight blade in Telangana||A rooster fitted with a knife for an illegal cockfight in southern India has killed its owner, sparking a manhunt for the organisers of the event, police said Saturday.The bird had a knife attached to its leg ready to take on an opponent when it inflicted serious injuries to the man's groin as it tried to escape, officers said.The victim died from loss of blood before he could reach a hospital in the Karimnagar district of Telangana state earlier this week, local police officer B. Jeevan told AFP.The man was among 16 people organising the cockfight in the village of Lothunur when the freak accident took place, Jeevan said.The rooster was briefly held at the local police station before it was sent to a poultry farm."We are searching for the other 15 people involved in organising the illegal fight," Jeevan said.They could face charges of manslaughter, illegal betting and hosting a cockfight.Cockfights are banned but still common in rural areas of Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Odisha states -- particularly around the Hindu festival of Sankranti.Specially-bred roosters have 7.5-centimetre (three-inch) knives or blades tethered to their legs and punters bet on who will win the gruesome fight.Thousands of roosters die each year in the battles which, despite the efforts of animal rights groups, attract large crowds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rooster-kills-owner-with-cockfight-blade-in-telangana-101614430414322.html
27-02-2021||India||Delhi Police Commissioner reviews law, order situation ahead of MCD by-polls||Delhi Commissioner of Police SN Shrivastava on Saturday reviewed the law and order and crime situation in the national capital.He also reviewed the arrangements for bye-elections to 5 wards of the Municipal Corporation of Delhi (MCD) - Rohini, Shalimar Bagh, Trilokpuri, Kalyanpuri and Chauhan Bangar.By-polls in five wards of Delhi's civic body, two of which fall under the North Delhi Municipal Corporation (NDMC) and three under the East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC), will be held on Sunday.Shrivastava directed police personnel to keep a sharp vigil on borders in view of elections and the ongoing farmers' protest.He analysed the crime situation vis-a-vis action against criminals, including burglars, drug peddlers, bootleggers and gamblers. Special emphasis was laid on the detection of crime against women, Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO), kidnapping/abduction, motor vehicle thefts and other theft cases.It was underlined that surveillance on listed criminals including bad characters (BCs)/ jail/bail release criminals would put a check on their activities which is a big deterrent.It was further directed to take action against leftover criminals (in crimes where other accused have been arrested) and intensify checking at pickets.Preventive action under the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC), the Delhi Police Act (DP Act) and Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA) (liquor, drugs, prostitution, gambling/Satta) will be initiated as required, he said.Shrivastava also directed to take strict measures to curb incidents of a firearm in their areas. He took stock of the status of Covid-19 vaccination to police personnel in different districts/units.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-police-commissioner-reviews-law-order-situation-ahead-of-mcd-bypolls-101614429371603.html
27-02-2021||India||Odisha modifies home isolation order, logs 86 new Covid-19 cases||The Odisha government on Saturday said week-long home isolation will be mandatory for people coming by plane or train from five high-risk states even as 86 new Covid-19 cases pushed the tally to 3,37,104, a health department official said.Additional Chief Secretary, Health and Family Welfare, P K Mohapatra in a partial modification to the instructions issued on Friday to district authorities and others, has clarified that at present the precautionary measures may be limited to passengers coming from five high-risk states instead of 12 states named earlier.The week-long home isolation will be mandatory for the people coming by train and flight from five high risk states like Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh.The situation is under watch and surveillance is going on strictly, Mohapatra said, adding that the government may later include other states in the category of high-risk states in future if the situation so warrants.He said the seven day mandatory home isolation for arrivals from the five high-risk states can be dispensed with for asymptomatic passengers who have an RT-PCR negative report (done not more than 72 hours before boarding) or a Covid Vaccination Final Certificate.In its Friday order, the state government had made 7- day home isolation mandatory for the people coming from the 12 states - Maharashtra, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Telangana, West Bengal, Punjab, Delhi, Chandigarh, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh - to the state.Meanwhile, Odisha reported 86 new Covid-19 cases in 21 districts.Sundergarh district reported the highest of 10 new cases followed by Khurda and Sambalpur (9 each). Dhenkanal district has become the Covid-19 free as no active cases existed in its jurisdiction.The state's coronavirus death toll remained at 1,915 as no fresh fatality has been reported since Thursday, he said, adding that other 53 Covid-19 positive patients have also died in the state due to comorbidities.The state currently has 673 active cases, while 3,34,463 patients have recovered from the highly infectious disease.Odisha has tested over 83 lakh sample tests for Covid-19 cases so far, including 22,763 on Friday. The state's positivity rate stands at 4.06 per cent, a data released by the Health and Family Welfare department said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-modifies-home-isolation-order-logs-86-new-covid-19-cases-101614413378044.html
27-02-2021||India||Amravati lockdown extended, Janta curfew in Latur: What is restricted where in Maharashtra||The lockdown imposed to check the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Maharashtra's Amravati district was extended for another week on Saturday as the daily cases continue to rise. All shops, establishments, schools, colleges are closed in the district now. Only essential services are allowed.The lockdown was also extended in Akola, Akot and Murjitapur due to the increasing number of cases. By March 5 or 6, the officials will review the situation and take further action accordingly.Maharashtra continues to report the highest daily new cases over 8,000. On Friday, it reported 8,333 cases, followed by Kerala with 3,671, while Punjab reported 622 new cases in the last 24 hours. In the last two weeks, Maharashtra has shown the highest rise in active cases from 34,449 on February 14 to 68,810 currently, the ministry said.In view of the rising cases, several restrictions have been imposed in the areas that are reporting the spike. From February 22, social, political gathering has been barred across the state, including Mumbai.As of Friday evening, Maharashtra has a caseload of 2,138,154 Covid-19 cases. The death toll stood at 52,041.Here is the list of restrictions imposed in parts of Maharashtra:LaturIn view of the rising cases in the district, the administration has decided to implement "Janata curfew" on February 27 and 28. All services except essentials are asked to remain shut.AmravatiA strict lockdown has been imposed in Amaravati, among the districts that are contributing the highest to Maharashtra's increasing number of daily infections. Only essential services are open during the lockdown period.Cinema houses, gyms, swimming pools, parks have been ordered to remain shut and gatherings for entertainment, educational, cultural, religious purposes etc have not been permitted, officials said.PuneIn Pune, schools and colleges have been asked to remain shut till February 28. The government has also imposed a night curfew in Pune during which public movement between 11 PM and 6 AM is restricted.MumbaiAs per the civic body guidelines, only 50 people are allowed in a social gathering in view of the surge in daily cases.YavatmalYavatmal is under a 10-day lockdown which began on February 18.The judicial working hours in Amravati, Yavatmal, Buldhana, Akola and Washim districts have been restricted to five hours a day.ParbhaniThe administration in Parbhani has closed the places of worship. The authorities also restricted travellers coming from 11 districts of the Vidarbha region to Parbhani.JalnaShri Rajur Ganpati temple, educational institutions are closed in Jalna district. The administration has also closed Shri Rajur Ganpati temple.AurangabadTill March 8, Aurangabad is under a night curfew. It is effective from 11pm to 6am.NashikNashik is under night curfew between 11pm and 5am from February 22. The order is effective until further orders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amravati-lockdown-extended-janta-curfew-in-latur-what-is-restricted-where-in-maharashtra-101614429156610.html
27-02-2021||India||Comments against judges 'disturbing new trend': Law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad||Union Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad on Saturday expressed strong disapproval of legal activists making objectionable comments about judges who do not pass favourable orders on their petitions, calling it a "disturbing new trend". Prasad was addressing a function here organised to mark the inauguration of a new building of the Patna High Court by Chief Justice of India S A Bobde, in presence of Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, among others. "We can surely criticise the reasoning of a judgement. But, I foresee a new trend which I need to flag today", Prasad said referring to "grossly unfair" comments on social media against judges by those who file PILs and feel aggrieved when the judgement is not favourable. Asserting that the judges of India, be they of the Supreme Court, the High Courts or the district courts must be given the freedom to decide a case as per their knowledge of the law and that though people were free to come up with their own analyses that was critical of a verdict, "trolling" and "agenda setting" were not acceptable. "I had been thinking of making my concerns public. I chose to do so here", said Prasad who also made a mention of having practiced, as a lawyer, at the Patna High Court and his current tenure as the local MP. The Union minister, who also holds the portfolios of Electronics and Telecommunications, also referred to the recently issued guidelines for using social media which was "long overdue". "We are supportive of freedom. We are supportive of criticism. We are supportive of dissent, too. But, the issue is the misuse and abuse of social media. There should be a grievance redressal mechanism for someone who is abused on the social media", he added. The Union Law Minister also spoke of the proposed establishment of All India Judicial Services, "a work in progress", as part of which "the best minds" would be appointed as judges after cracking competitive exams held by the UPSC "under the direction of the Supreme Court. He also said that the government "wished to give proper reservation to SCs, STs and OBCs" which would make the judiciary more "inclusive". Prasad also expressed satisfaction over the judiciary having risen to the challenge posed by the Covid-19 pandemic last year. The total number of cases digitally heard across the country, till January 31, was a staggering 76.38 lakh. Of these 24.55 lakhs were heard at the various High Courts, another 51.83 lakhs at the district courts and 22,353 at the Apex Court. "It is a matter of some assurance and appreciation", he asserted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/comments-against-judges-disturbing-new-trend-law-minister-ravi-shankar-prasad-101614423972519.html
27-02-2021||India||Six states report surge in daily new Covid-19 cases: Government||As six states - Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, and Gujarat have shown a surge in new cases in the last 24 hours, India's total active cases count has reached 1,59,590 on Saturday.India's present active caseload now stands at 1.44 percent of the country's total positive cases.As many as 16,488 new cases were registered in the last 24 hours. 85.75 percent of the new cases are from six states and union territories.Maharashtra continues to report the highest daily new cases at 8,333. It is followed by Kerala with 3,671 while Punjab reported 622 new cases.According to the Ministry of Health and Family and Welfare (MoHFW), in the last two weeks, Kerala has shown the maximum decline in the number of active cases, from 63,847 on February 14 to 51,679 today, while Maharashtra has shown the highest rise in active cases in the same period, from 34,449 on February 14 to 68,810 currently.The cabinet secretary held a high-level review meeting today with the states/UTs exhibiting a surge in cases including Telangana, Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Punjab, Jammu and Kashmir, and West Bengal.A total of 1,42,42,547 vaccine doses have been administered through 2,92,312 sessions, as per the provisional report till 7 am today. These include 66,68,974 health care workers (first dose), 24,53,878 HCWs (second dose) and 51,19,695 frontline workers (first dose).The second dose of Covid-19 vaccination started on February 13, 2021, for those beneficiaries who have completed 28 days after receipt of the first dose. Vaccination of the FLWs started on February 2, 2021.As of day-42 of the vaccination drive (February 27, 2021), a total of 7,64,904 vaccine doses was given. Out of which, 3,49,020 beneficiaries were vaccinated across 13,397 sessions for first dose (HCWs and FLWs) and 4,20,884 HCWs received 2nd dose of vaccine.Eight states account for 62.75 percent of the cumulative second dose vaccinations. Uttar Pradesh alone accounts for 12.64 percent (3,10,058) of the total second dose vaccinations.12 states/UTs have reported vaccination coverage of more than 65 percent of the Frontline Workers. These include Ladakh, Uttarakhand, Chhattisgarh, Himachal Pradesh, Odisha, Tripura, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Lakshadweep, Rajasthan, Kerala, and Dadra and Nagar Haveli.12 states/UTs have reported vaccination coverage of less than 40 percent of the frontline workers. These are Puducherry, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Meghalaya, Assam, Tamil Nadu, Manipur, Arunachal Pradesh, Telangana, Punjab, Nagaland, Goa, and Mizoram.A total of 1.07 crore (1,07,63,451) people has recovered so far. 12,771 patients have recovered and got discharged in the last 24 hours.84.79 percent of the new recovered cases are observed to be concentrated in 6 States/UTs.Maharashtra has reported the maximum number of single-day recoveries with 4,936 newly recovered cases. 4,142 people recovered in Kerala in the past 24 hours followed by 642 in Karnataka.Six states/UTs account for 82.3 percent of the new deaths. Maharashtra saw the maximum casualties (48). Punjab follows with 15 daily deaths and Kerala reported 14 deaths in the last 24 hours.17 states/UTs have not reported any Covid-19 deaths in the last 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/six-states-report-surge-in-daily-new-covid-19-cases-government-101614427715441.html
27-02-2021||India||This is what one dose of Covid-19 vaccine will cost in Gujarat||Gujarat deputy chief minister Nitin Patel said on Saturday people will have to pay ₹250 for getting the Covid-19 vaccine in private hospitals and those opting to get the shot in government hospitals will not have to pay anything across the state during the second phase of the government’s inoculation drive from March. “The price of Covid-19 vaccine in Gujarat will be ₹250 in private hospitals and it will be provided free of cost in govt hospital across the state,” Patel was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Earlier in the week, Union minister Prakash Javadekar announced that people who wanted to get vaccinated at private centres in the second phase of the government’s inoculation drive will have to pay for the Covid-19 shots. “The vaccine will be given free of cost at government centres. Those who would take the vaccine at private centres will have to pay. The amount will be decided by the health ministry within the next three to four days as they are in discussion with manufacturers and hospitals," the minister said at a media briefing after the meeting of the Union cabinet.Read more: How much will vaccine cost at private hospitals? Here's what govt saysJavadekar had then said that the amount to be paid for the vaccine at private hospitals will be decided by the health ministry within a few days after discussions with manufacturers and hospitals.In the second phase of the Covid-19 vaccination programme, people above 60 years of age and those above 45 years of age with comorbidities will be vaccinated. The second phase of the vaccination will also include armed forces and police personnel. For this, the government has roped in 20,000 private hospitals and 10,000 government centres.The first phase of the vaccination drive began on January 16 and included healthcare workers - government as well as private - sanitation workers, other frontline workers, defence forces, police and other paramilitary forces. Oxford-AatraZeneca's vaccine, which is being manufactured by the Serum Institute of India (SII) as Covishield, and indigenously-developed Covaxin of Bharat Biotech are being used in the vaccination drive.Gujarat reported 460 new cases of the coronavirus disease on Friday evening which took the caseload in the state to 269,031. This was the highest number of new cases reported in the state in the month of February. With 315 patients being discharged, the tally of recoveries rose to 262,487. So far, 820,000 people in the state have been given the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccines, while 165,000 have been administered a second dose as well during the first phase of the vaccination drive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/this-is-what-one-dose-of-covid-19-vaccine-will-cost-in-gujarat-101614428800182.html
27-02-2021||India||Bombay High Court refuses to hear case after lawyer removes mask in courtroom||The Bombay High Court recently refused to hear a case after a lawyer representing the appellant removed his face mask inside a courtroom.The order of the February 22 incident was made available on Saturday.A single-judge bench of Justice Prithviraj Chavan was on February 22 hearing an appeal matter during which the appellant's advocate removed his mask in the courtroom contrary to guidelines.Referring to the Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) laid down by the high court at the time of resumption of physical hearing of cases, Justice Chavan said that wearing a face mask all the time is compulsory.Justice Chavan refused to hear this particular case following which it will be listed once again in due course."The matter be removed from the board," the order said.Justice Chavan allows only lawyers appearing in a case called out to enter his courtroom while other lawyers and parties have to wait in the adjoining room for their matter to come up as per serial numbers.The HC and all subordinate courts in Maharashtra, except Pune, had resumed in-person hearings in December after a gap of eight months.Since the coronavirus pandemic began, the courts had been conducting hearings online, through video interface.Maharashtra and Mumbai have been witnessing a surge in fresh coronavirus positive cases since mid February.As on February 26, Maharashtra's case tally stood at 21,38,154 while Mumbai has 3,23,879 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bombay-high-court-refuses-to-hear-case-after-lawyer-removes-mask-in-courtroom-101614428052039.html
27-02-2021||India||'True religion never divides': Priyanka Gandhi at Varanasi's Ravidas temple||Sant Ravidas taught people a true religion which is easy and has no politics or discrimination, said Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Saturday after offering prayers at a temple dedicated to the seer in Varanasi.The Congress leader arrived at the Varanasi airport in the morning and was extended a warm welcome by party workers before she went to Seer Govardhan, the birth place of the seer, to offer prayers on his birth anniversary. She also took part in a "satsang".This is the second time in the past two years when the Congress leader has visited the birth place of Sant Shiromani Guru Ravidasji, a Congress release issued in Lucknow said.The Congress leader also took blessings of Sant Niranjan Das, the “mahant” of the temple.Speaking on the occasion, the Congress leader said Ravidas taught people a true religion."It is an easy religion as the true religion is always easy which has no politics or discrimination. The sect or caste of a person is not seen, it is only humanity that is seen. When you imbibe such a religion, it brings compassion and truth to the heart.”Priyanka said a true religion never divides people."The nature of such a religion is that it soothes the heart and brings compassion and people together as brothers and sisters," she said.Thanking all those present on the occasion, she said they all have kept the true religion alive and there is no politics behind it.Sant Ravidasji Maharaj has taught that all should be served, get food and lodging and you all are doing that, serving those who have nothing, Priyanka said.Referring to the coronavirus crisis, she said it was her wish that Congress workers in the state should also serve people, especially when the lockdown started and people started moving out, walking towards their homes.When our people started community kitchens to serve such people, your people helped and I want to thank you all for it, the Congress release quoting Priyanka said.Priyanka said she hoped that the aspiration of Sant Ravidasji that people should be served and there should be harmony is maintained in politics.Congress workers in large numbers, including senior state party leaders, were present on the occasion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/true-religion-never-divides-priyanka-gandhi-at-varanasi-s-ravidas-temple-101614426781236.html
27-02-2021||India||Kejriwal says Delhi's law and order situation 'in serious turmoil'||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday questioned the law and order situation in the national capital and urged Union Home minister Amit Shah and Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal to take action after two crimes were reported in the last 36 hours."Deeply concerned by the murder of a 8-yr old girl in Khichdipur & attack on a 17-yr old boy in Kalkaji. Delhi's law and order situation is in a serious turmoil, I appeal to Hon'ble Home Minister & Lt. Gov to take appropriate action to address the situation," Kejriwal said in a tweet.The chief minister's tweet comes after a 17-year-old boy was beaten up and stabbed for allegedly opposing three boys who were stalking his sister and passing "indecent remarks" on her in southeast Delhi's Kalkaji area. The injured boy, a resident Kalkaji, was taken to AIIMS Trauma Centre, police said.Also read: Minor girl kidnapped from near Kalyanpuri three days ago murdered, body found in Modinagar fieldsIn her statement, the victim's sister said that on Friday, while she was with her brother, three boys followed her and passed indecent remarks on her. When her brother objected to it, they all started beating him and one of them stabbed him in the abdomen and fled the spot, a senior police officer said.In another gruesome crime, the body of a nine-year-old girl, who was kidnapped from east Delhi’s Khichripur three days ago, was found in the sugarcane fields of a village in Modinagar, near Ghaziabad, on Friday morning. The police has said that the autopsy has ruled out sexual assault.Four alleged kidnappers, who live in the same neighbourhood as the girl’s family, have been arrested in connection with the kidnap and murder.The arrested persons were identified by their first names -- Johnny alias Shiva, the key suspect, his cousin Naresh, Kailash and Tarun. “In the kidnapping and murder case of Kalyanpuri, four persons have been arrested and the weapon of the offence has been recovered,” said deputy commissioner of police (east) Deepak Yadav.The girl’s murder also took on a political colour, as one of the wards in the area is going to municipal by-polls on Sunday.Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) legislator from Kalkaji Atishi said, “Despite having CCTV footage, the Delhi Police could not save the missing girl, even though there was heavy police presence in the area when BJP leaders came here to campaign for the municipal by-polls. People of Delhi, especially Dalits, feel unsafe because the Delhi Police is incapable of protecting their lives.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kejriwal-says-delhi-s-law-and-order-situation-in-serious-turmoil-101614424854204.html
27-02-2021||India||Rogue cop arrested for escorting truck carrying methyl alcohol in dry Bihar||The anti-liquor squad of Bihar police on Saturday arrested three persons including a sub inspector on probation from Muzaffarpur for escorting a truck carrying banned methyl alcohol.Production, sale and purchase of methyl alcohol is banned in Bihar where prohibition has been in force since April 2016.The sub inspector identified as Braj Kishor Yadav, is presently posted at the Karja police station, nearly 25 km from Kachchi Pakki area where he was arrested.Yadav, a 2009 batch sub inspector had been inducted into the police department in 2018 following a Patna High Court order to induct over 100 sub inspectors after many of them had moved the court alleging that they were unfairly eliminated in the recruitment tests.Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Jayant Kant said that they had information about transportation of alcohol in a truck, which was to be moved from Kachchi Pakki area. “I alerted the anti liquor quad to apprehend the truck with the consignment. The squad arrested three persons after intercepting the truck. All the three persons were taken to a police station and were quizzed. Later, one of them was identified as Braj Kishor Yadav, a PSI deployed with the Karja police station. While another is a son of chowkidar from the Sadar police station,” said Kant.He said 4,400 liters of methyl alcohol was seized from the truck. Yadav was not in uniform.“Yadav was escorting the truck for safe delivery of the consignment to someone in Maniyari police station area. They will be sent to jail after they are produced in a court,” the SSP said.A police official on condition of anonymity said that Yadav was posted with Karja police station barely three weeks ago.“Yadav is a habitual offender. His was suspended nearly two months ago after a video of his had gone viral on social media. The SSP had suspended him after verification of that video, in which he was seen extorting money from some truckers near Bhagwanpur roundabout, hardly 50 meters away from the Sadar police station, where he was deployed. Recently his suspension was revoked, and he was posted with the Karja police station,” he said.This is not the first time that a police officer has been arrested for conniving with the liquor mafia. On January 14, 2019, the SHO of the Motipur police station was arrested by a special team of Excise and Prohibition department with a huge haul of Indian made foreign liquor (IMFL) from his official residence. After that the entire staff of the police station was suspended and shifted from there.Two sub inspectors from Meenapur police station had faced the departmental proceedings before they were dismissed from service in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rogue-cop-arrested-for-escorting-truck-carrying-methyl-alcohol-in-dry-bihar-101614427111376.html
27-02-2021||India||Chandra Shekhar Azad's 90th death anniversary: 'Azad hi rahein hain, azad hi rahenge'||Vice president M Venkaiah Naidu on Saturday remembered freedom fighter Chandra Shekhar Azad on his 90th death anniversary. "Remembering the fearless revolutionary freedom fighter Chandra Shekhar Azad on his death anniversary today. An exceptional leader and a true patriot, Azad motivated and inspired many to join the freedom movement. His supreme sacrifice for our motherland will always be remembered,” Naidu tweeted.Azad was born on July 23, 1906, as Chandra Shekhar Tiwari in Bhavra village of Madhya Pradesh in the family of Pandit Sitaram Tiwari and Jagrani Devi. Azad’s mother asked his father to send their son to Kashi Vidyapeeth in Varanasi. He was deeply affected by the massacre in Amritsar’s Jallianwala Bagh in 1919. He joined the freedom struggle in 1921 while he was just a school student.In December 1921, when Mahatma Gandhi launched the non-cooperation movement, Azad took part in it. After joining the movement, he was arrested by the British police and when he was presented before a magistrate, he declared his name to be 'Azad', his father's name as 'Swatantra', and his residence as 'prison'. Since then, the title of ‘Azad’, which means free in Urdu, was attached to his name.After the suspension of the non-cooperation movement in 1922, Azad joined the Hindustan Republican Association (HRA), a revolutionary organisation formed by Ramprasad Bismil. Azad was involved in the Kakori Train Robbery on August 9, 1925, against the British Raj. He was also involved in the shooting of JP Saunders at Lahore in 1928 to avenge the killing of Lala Lajpat Rai, and in the attempt to blow up the Viceroy of India's train in 1929.Azad lost his life in a face-off with the British police in Alfred Park in Allahabad on February 27, 1931. After single-handedly fighting the police for a while with just a pistol and a few cartridges, Azad shot himself in the head, fulfilling his vow of dying as a free man and not as a British captive. The Colt pistol of Chandra Shekhar Azad is displayed at the Allahabad Museum.Azad used to fondly recite a Hindustani couplet which was his only poetic composition: 'Dushman ki goliyon ka hum saamna karenge. Azad hi rahein hain, azad hi rahenge'||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chandra-shekhar-azad-s-90th-death-anniversary-azad-hi-rahein-hain-azad-hi-rahenge-101614427026745.html
27-02-2021||India||Emergency interim blocking directions by I&B Ministry not new, clarifies govt||The government on Saturday said certain misgivings are being raised regarding Rule 16 under Part III of The Information Technology Rules, 2021 under which interim blocking directions may be issued by the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting in a case of emergency nature but asserted this is not a new provision."The Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021 provide an institutional framework for news publishers and OTT platforms on the digital media ecosystem. Certain misgivings are being raised regarding Rule 16 under Part III of the rules, which mention that in a case of emergency nature, interim blocking directions may be issued by the Secretary, Ministry of Information and Broadcasting," an official release by the government said.The government said this provision is exactly the same as being exercised by the Secretary, Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeITY) for the past 11 years under the Information Technology (Procedure and Safeguards for Blocking for Access of Information by Public) Rules, 2009."Since Part III of the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021 would be administered by the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, that is why the reference to Secretary MeITY has been replaced by Secretary, Ministry of Information & Broadcasting. There is no new provision, which has been made," read the release.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/emergency-interim-blocking-directions-by-i-b-ministry-not-new-clarifies-govt-101614426607167.html
27-02-2021||India||As Covid-19 cases rise, Centre asks states to deal Covid-19 violations firmly||The Centre has asked the states to not let their guards down in the fight against Covid-19, as some states have reported an increase in the number of infections. In a meeting with the chief secretaries of some states, Cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba asked the states to enforce Covid appropriate behaviour and deal firmly with any violations of such norms, to further prevent the spread of the disease.On Saturday, the cabinet secretary met the chief secretaries of Maharashtra, Punjab, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, West Bengal, Telangana and Jammu and Kashmir — states that have been reporting a surge in the active caseload or the number of cases in the past week.Also read | India reports 16,488 Covid-19 cases, 113 deaths; tally over 11.07 millionThe meeting was chaired as six states - Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Gujarat - have reported a surge in the number of cases in the past 24 hours, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare.Maharashtra has reported more than 8,000 daily new Covid-19 cases for the past three days and more than 5,000 new cases since February 19, according to data from the health ministry. On February 25, the state reported 8,807 cases, the highest this month. However, with 8,702 cases on February 26 and 8,333 cases on February 27, a slight decrease in the number of cases has been reported. With 622 cases reported on Saturday, Punjab too had witnessed an increase in the daily new cases since the beginning of February. It is also among one of the six states that have contributed to nearly 85 per cent of India’s new Covid-19 cases on Saturday, the health ministry said.Meanwhile, the government has paused the Covid-19 vaccination drive on Saturday and Sunday as the Co-Win digital platform is being upgraded to Co-Win 2.0 version. Beginning from March 1, the vaccination program would be expanded to include people in the 45-59 years age group with co-morbidities, the health ministry announced on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-covid-19-cases-rise-centre-asks-states-to-deal-covid-19-violations-firmly-101614425782196.html
27-02-2021||India||Fuel price hike: Indian Youth Congress stages protest outside residence of Union minister Smriti Irani||Indian Youth Congress activists staged a protest outside the residence of Union Minister Smriti Irani on Saturday against rising prices of petrol, diesel and cooking gas, and demanded that the government roll back the hike with immediate effect.Irani, when in the opposition, would take to the streets even if prices of petrol and diesel rose by ₹5 per litre, but today she is "completely silent" as the country faces an "all-round inflation", said Indian Youth Congress (IYC) president Srinivas B V."Today, the Youth Congress has tried to awaken her from sleep. Petrol price has crossed ₹100 a litre, diesel has crossed ₹90 in many parts of the country, and the price of cooking gas cylinders are increasing day by day," he said."What is shameful is that despite this kind of open loot, the BJP government" is trying to shift the blame, he added.He said Petroleum Minister Dharmendra Pradhan's statement that fuel prices will go down once the winter ends was "stupid" and demanded his resignation.The leader asked the central government to reduce the prices of petrol, diesel and gas with immediate effect."People of the country had chosen PM Modi and his ministers on the promise of 'aache din', now the trust of PM Modi and his government has been broken. Farmers, youth, labourers, businessmen, women are badly suffering from inflation. The anti-people and anti-national face of RSS and BJP has come out," he alleged.IYC National General Secretary Bhaiya Pawar and its Delhi co-incharge Khushboo Sharma also participated in the protest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fuel-price-hike-youth-congress-stages-protest-outside-residence-of-smriti-irani-101614426447561.html
27-02-2021||India||IAF jets to feature in Sri Lankan Air Force's 70th anniversary celebrations||Suryakirans, Sarang and Light Combat Aircraft Tejas will participate in an air show in Colombo from March 3 to 5 as part of the 70th anniversary celebrations of the Sri Lankan Air Force, the Indian Air Force said on Saturday.The IAF's aerobatic display teams, the fixed wing 'Suryakirans' and rotary wing 'Sarang', along with Tejas arrived at Colombo on Saturday."Suryakirans, Sarang and LCA Tejas will participate in an air show at Galle Face, Colombo, scheduled from March 3 to 5 as part of the 70th anniversary celebrations of SLAF," the IAF said in a statement.The IAF and SLAF have seen active exchanges and interactions for a number of years in diverse fields like training, operational exchanges and through professional military education courses."IAFs participation in the 70th anniversary celebration of SLAF is a further manifestation of the strong professional bonds that the two air forces share," the IAF said.The IAF Suryakiran Aerobatic Team (SKAT) had earlier toured Sri Lanka in 2001 for the 50th anniversary celebrations of SLAF. As the IAF aircraft take to the skies of Colombo to mark the event, they will script another significant chapter in the traditionally strong IAF-SLAF ties, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iaf-jets-to-feature-in-sri-lankan-air-force-s-70th-anniversary-celebrations-101614425397192.html
27-02-2021||India||Shashi Tharoor has a message for Indian cricket team. It has a 'spin'||Thiruvananthapuram MP Shashi Tharoor took to Twitter on Saturday to share a Whatsapp forward equating Mahatma Gandhi with the spinners of the Indian cricket team.The message featured a picture of Gandhiji’s famous spinning wheel or Charkha along with the text 'spinners have always done well in Ahmedabad especially against England', capped off with a smirking face emoji. Tharoor captioned it as 'one of the better WhatsApp forwards of the day!'.One of the better WhatsApp forwards of the day! pic.twitter.com/fhozGrFe8IIndia played and won a pink ball test against England in the newly christened Narendra Modi Stadium in Motera which ended in just over five sessions. The victory has largely been credited to spinners Ravichandran Ashwin, Axar Patel, and Washington Sundar, picked by captain Virat Kohli. Axar Patel and R Ashwin had a total of nine wickets between them to bowl out England for 112 all out.Gandhiji used the portable spinning wheel, called a charkha in Hindi, to spin thread and make his own clothes as a symbol of protest against the British textile products in favour of homemade clothes. Gandhiji was extremely fond of his charkha and used it to make his clothes while he was imprisoned in Pune’s Yerawada jail first in the early 1930s. The spinning wheel went on to play a big role in India’s push for self-reliance and ultimately self-governance.The Motera stadium is the biggest cricket stadium in the world with a total capacity of 1,32,000. The renaming of the cricket stadium at Motera after Prime Minister Narendra Modi had invited sharp rebuke and criticism from the opposition. The Bharatiya Janata Party defended its decision by pointing out that just the stadium has been renamed but it still continues to be a part of the larger Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel sports complex.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shashi-tharoor-has-a-message-for-indian-cricket-team-it-has-a-spin-101614425531125.html
27-02-2021||India||News updates from HT: Congress G-23 honor Azad, discuss Gandhian philosophy in Jammu meet and all the latest news||Congress G-23 hold meet in Jammu, discuss Gandhian philosophy, honour Ghulam Nabi AzadThe group of 23 Congress leaders, who had expressed dissent with the functioning of the party and even wrote a letter to Sonia Gandhi, held an event in Jammu on Saturday to launch a nationwide campaign to "save the idea of India." Read moreA rare phone call, secret letter: How India got Pak to release IAF’s AbhinandanAfter images of bleeding captured Indian Air Force (IAF) fighter pilot Wing Commander Abhinandan Varthaman were put out by Pakistan on this day in 2019, the then Research and Analysis Wing (RAW) chief on the instructions of Prime Minister Narendra Modi read the riot act to his ISI counterpart and warned Pakistan of severe consequences if the pilot of the Indian Air Force’s MiG-21 was harmed. Read moreAAP, BJP and Congress gear up for Delhi MCD by-polls tomorrowBy-polls in five wards of Delhi’s civic body, two of which fall under the North Delhi Municipal Corporation (NDMC) and three under the East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC), will be held on Sunday. The elections are being seen as a test for Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, whose Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) won 27 seats in the Surat municipal corporation in Gujarat. Read moreUS Democrats reintroduce legislation to prevent future Muslim bansAs many as 140 Democratic lawmakers have reintroduced a legislation in the US Congress to prevent future Muslim bans and prohibit discrimination on the basis of religion. Read moreIn Arsenal's usual story of struggle, a teenager provides some hopeIt has been a turbulent season at Arsenal Football Club. After a disastrous start to the campaign that saw them plunge to 15th in the Premier League standings with just 14 points from 14 games, the ship has somewhat steadied at the Emirates Stadium. Read moreMohit Malik: ‘Don’t like people telling me bachche ho gaye, lag gayi tumhari’Embracing fatherhood, Mohit Malik feels nervous and excited. “The thought makes me anxious but more excited,” says the actor, who is expecting his first child with wife, actor Addite Shirwaikar Malik. Read moreWatch: Hrithik Roshan vs Kangana Ranaut: Actor appears before cops in email caseHrithik Roshan visited Mumbai Police's Crime Branch office on Saturday to record a statement. This is in connection with his 2016 complaint on fake emails in his name to Kangana Ranaut. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-congress-g-23-honor-azad-discuss-gandhian-philosophy-in-jammu-meet-and-all-the-latest-news-101614423606850.html
27-02-2021||India||Covid-19: Lockdown extended in Maharashtra's Amravati for another week||Authorities in Maharashtra have extended the lockdown in the Amravati district of the state for another week till March 8 amid rising cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The lockdown has also been extended in Akola, Akot and Murjitapur, officials said.The officials also said the situation in the district will be reviewed by March 5-6 to see if there is any improvement and a further decision will be taken.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19Amravati’s guardian minister Yashomati Thakur had earlier said that the lockdown in the district will be in place till the morning of March 1. Thakur, during the imposition of the lockdown last week, said that all shops, excluding the ones dealing with essential commodities, will remain shut including government and private educational institutions, coaching classes and training schools. People were allowed to buy items of daily use from 9am to 5pm.Restrictions were also imposed in the regions of Akola, Washim, Buldhana and Yavatmal. In the wake of the rising coronavirus cases the judicial working hours of subordinate courts in Amravati, Yavatmal, Buldhana, Akola and Washim districts were also restricted to five hours a day.Maharashtra has been witnessing a peak in the number of daily cases of the coronavirus disease in February. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had also urged the citizens to strictly adhere to Covid appropriate behaviour or strict restrictions will be enforced in the state to control the spread of the virus.Also Read |Indian American Arora Akanksha, 34, Haryana woman, running for UN chiefThe decision to impose lockdown in Amravati had come after the region reported more than 1,000 coronavirus cases last Sunday, as high as during the peak of the virus spread. Since Wednesday the regions of Mumbai, Akola, Pune, Nagpur and Nashik have been reporting increasing daily coronavirus cases. On Saturday as well, the trend continued and Maharashtra contributed the most to the active caseload of the country. As per the data by the Union ministry of health and family welfare, Maharashtra reported 8,333 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, the highest in the country.The Akola division in the Vidarbha region has been reporting the hike in the coronavirus disease cases. The division that consists of Amravati, Yavatmal, Buldhana, Washim and Akola districts has turned out to be the epicentre of coronavirus cases in Maharashtra||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-lockdown-extended-in-maharashtra-s-amravati-for-another-week-101614421558137.html
27-02-2021||India||Private hospitals can't charge more than ₹250 per dose of vaccine: Report||Private hospitals can charge up to ₹250 per dose of vaccines in the second phase of vaccination, starting from March 1, news agencies reported on Saturday, quoting government sources. Two doses to be taken in a gap of 28 days will cost ₹500. This price will include taxes, reports said. Since this is the first time vaccines will be charged, the price is indicative of how much the vaccines will cost when these will be available for all, after the inoculation of priority groups.The government had procured Covishield from Serum Institute of India at a discounted price of ₹200, per dose, excluding taxes. Bharat Biotech's Covaxin was priced at ₹295 per dose for the government.Several political parties had promised free vaccines to all and several chief ministers, including Arvind Kejriwal, Mamata Banerjee earlier urged PM Modi to make vaccines free for all. But as the vaccination drive enters the crucial second phase, the government has made it clear that vaccination at private hospitals will not be free.The decision to rope in private hospitals in the ongoing vaccination drive comes following an uptick in the number of daily infections.The vaccination drive, which began on January 16, will enter the second phase on March 1. In this phase, senior citizens and people (45 years and above) with co-morbidities will be considered eligible for inoculation. Government hospitals will carry out the drive at no cost, as it has been going on, but private facilities which are empanelled under Central Government Health Scheme, Ayushman Bharay and similar State Health Insurance Schemes will charge for the vaccines.Earlier on Saturday, the Centre said several fake claims were doing the rounds on WhatsApp regarding the second phase of vaccination.Several claims are being made in a forwarded #WhatsApp message regarding the next phase of the #COVID19 vaccination drive. #PIBFactCheck: These claims are #Misleading. For more information related to the vaccination drive, read here: https://t.co/7XBo6zJ3Pj pic.twitter.com/6rbr6Z7tTbSenior citizens will require a photo identity while those who will register themselves on the grounds of co-morbidities will require medical certificates. A new version of Co-Win app will be launched on March 1 with the option of self-registration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/claims-are-misleading-govt-on-message-saying-vaccine-to-be-priced-at-rs-500-101614424384176.html
27-02-2021||India||₹100 plus crore needed to conduct Tamil Nadu assembly polls: Deputy CM||Tamil Nadu Deputy Chief Minister O Panneerselvam on Saturday told the Assembly that ₹102.93 crore is needed for holding the April 6 assembly elections. "I would like to highlight that ₹102.93 crore is required for the conduct of the Assembly election, of which a sum of ₹102.38 crore has been provided in the Supplementary Estimates," he told the House presenting the Final Supplementary Estimates for 2020-21. The provision has been made under the Public department and the remaining amount would be met by re-appropriation within the grant, he said. Placing the Final Supplementary Estimates for ₹21,172.82 crore, Panneerselvam, who holds the Finance portfolio said it includes various items of additional expenditure necessitated on government account in view of the Covid-19 pandemic and other urgent requirements."I strongly believe that democratic norms need to be observed. As the Election Commission has announced the general election for TN Legislative Assembly yesterday, it would not be appropriate for me to specifically mention some of the important items of expenditure which is the normal practice," he noted. He said for all items of expenditure, necessary Government Orders and sanctions have already been issued or these are ongoing schemes. "None of these, which is being included in the Final Supplementary Estimates is a new announcement or a new item of expenditure." Later, after Pannerselvam's reply to the general discussion on the interim budget for 2021-22, and passage of Appropriation Bill and Vote on Account, Speaker P Dhanapal adjourned the House sine die.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rs-100-plus-crore-needed-to-conduct-tamil-nadu-assembly-polls-deputy-cm-101614424080017.html
27-02-2021||India||US Civil society groups, lawmakers press Biden to support India's TRIPS waiver proposal on Covid-19 vaccines||Hundreds of civil society groups in the US, along with several progressive lawmakers, are keeping up the pressure on the Biden administration to support India's TRIPS waiver on Covid-19 vaccines, reported Inside US Trade - an online news service.India along with South Africa is at the forefront in a proposal introduced in October 2020, before the World Trade Organization (WTO) in the TRIPS council, for a waiver during Covid-19 to allow more countries to get equitable access to medicines.Earlier, 57 members of the WTO supported India's proposal for Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS) waiver on Covid-19 vaccines.The issue has galvanized advocacy groups as a question of equity. The waiver, which would apply to a swath of obligations under the WTO Agreement on TRIPS, is set to be discussed at the General Council meeting next week.The push comes as poorer countries are trailing significantly behind richer countries in administering vaccines. According to the United Nations last week, 130 countries have not received a single dose of any Covid-19 vaccines, reported Inside US Trade."Where is the moral imperative? Beyond anything else, that is what needs to be the motivation here," Rosa DeLauro (Connecticut), a member of the Democratic Party, said during a press conference announcing a letter from more than 400 US-based civil society groups to President Biden. "The moral imperative to save lives. The United States should lead that charge. We should not be denying others the opportunity to do this. We have the wherewithal to do this."Support for the waiver is gaining momentum among Democrats. DeLauro was joined at the press conference by Earl Blumenauer (Oregon) and Jan Schakowsky (Illinois).Schakowsky is spearheading a letter to the president with fellow members of Congress that will urge him to support the waiver. Schakowsky, deputy whip for House Democrats, has previously said, and reiterated on Friday, that the waiver is supported by House Speaker Nancy Pelosi.The General Council next week is not expected to make any decisions on the TRIPS waiver but will receive a status update from the chair of the TRIPS Council on the state of the talks, reported Inside US Trade.Advocates are urging the Biden administration to use that opportunity to lift the US opposition and allow WTO members to proceed to text-based discussions in the council, according to Public Citizen's Lori Wallach. She told reporters on Friday that the General Council is the place to show political direction on the waiver. The US position so far, she argued, "has basically been a filibuster."Meanwhile, the US, the European Union, Canada and Japan, among others, have so far opposed it, arguing that intellectual property is critical to innovation and that existing TRIPS flexibilities - including compulsory licensing - are sufficient to address any IP-related concerns.The proponents, meanwhile, maintain that the waiver is needed to allow those with the capacity to ramp up production and ensure poorer countries have equal access to the vaccines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-civil-society-groups-lawmakers-press-biden-to-support-india-s-trips-waiver-proposal-on-covid-19-vaccines-101614420291799.html
27-02-2021||India||Celebrating 50 yrs of diplomacy, India-Bangladesh 19th HSLT held virtually today||Ahead of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's visit to Bangladesh scheduled next month, both countries agreed to enhance the level of cooperation to prevent smuggling of Fake Indian Currency Notes (FICN) and contraband across borders during the 19th Home Secretary Level Talks (HSLT) on Saturday.According to an official release issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), the 19th HSLT between India and Bangladesh was held virtually today in the backdrop of 'MujibBarsho', 50 years of Bangladesh Liberation War and the establishment of diplomatic ties between the two countries.The Indian delegation was led by Ajay Kumar Bhalla, Union Home Secretary. Mostafa Kamal Uddin, Senior Secretary, Public Security Division, Ministry of Home Affairs of Bangladesh led the Bangladesh delegation."Both sides discussed early completion of pending fencing along the Indo-Bangladesh Border (IBB) as agreed by the Prime Ministers of the two countries," said MHA.Also read: India has highest stake in Rohingyas' return to Myanmar: India at UNGAIt added that both sides appreciated the cooperation between the two countries and the action taken to address the menace of terrorism and extremism in an effective manner."The effective functioning of the Coordinated Border Management Plan (CBMP) to control the illegal cross border activities was appreciated by both sides. Both sides also agreed to further enhance the level of cooperation to prevent the smuggling of FICN and contraband," MHA added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/celebrating-50-yrs-of-diplomacy-india-bangladesh-19th-hslt-held-virtually-today-101614419026221.html
27-02-2021||India||Gadkari announces new expressway, Travel from Delhi to Dehradun in 2 hours from 2023||Union minister of road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari on Friday announced the new economic corridor between Delhi and Dehradun in Uttarakhand. The 210km six-lane express highway is scheduled to be completed by 2023 and once finished the route will reduce the travel time from the national capital to Dehradun from five hours to two hours.The Delhi-Dehradun Economic Corridor will offer new connectivity to the holy site of Haridwar in Uttarakhand. The new connectivity for Haridwar will be provided by the route passing through Basera, Manakpur, Khataferi, Roorkee, Mehberkalam."Announced the new Economic Corridor of Delhi-Dehradun for Uttarakhand today. The total cost of this 6-lane project of 210 km total length is 12,300 crores. The project will be awarded by August 2021 and will be completed by 2023," Gadkari tweeted in Hindi.दिल्ली-देहरादून इकॉनोमिक कॉरिडोर में हरिद्वार के लिए नई कनेक्टिविटी की घोषणा की। बसेरा, मानकपुर, खाताफेरी, रुड़की, मेहबरकलां से होकर गुजरने वाले इस मार्ग में हरिद्वार के लिए नई कनेक्टिविटी का प्रावधान किया गया है।The new economic corridor will have a new six lane route that will be constructed from the Sahranpur bypass to connect with Haridwar. This route will reduce the travelling time from the national capital to Haridwar to merely two hours from the current six hours.Additionally, Gadkari inaugurated road projects of a length of 250km for the state of Uttarakhand. The minister announced the ₹5400 crore worth of projects in the presence of state chief minister TS Rawat and Union minister RP Nishank. The road projects for Uttarakhand will make the travel convenient for travellers going to Rudraprayag, Kedarnath and Badrinath including the Kumbh city of Haridwar. Through the projects commercial vehicles will get better connectivity in the industrial sector, Gadkari said.Also Read | Pak went back on its F-16 promise to US. How India fixed the gaps with Rafale"Travelers going to Rudraprayag, Kedarnath and Badrinath, including Kumbh city Haridwar, will have convenience and traffic will be smooth, along with an alternate route for the Chardham Yatra. Commercial vehicles will get better connectivity in the industrial sector," Gadkari said and added that the road projects are focussed to make travel easier in Uttarakhand.Inaugurating and laying the foundation stone of the projects in the presence of MPs, MLAs and other officials, Gadkari said that road projects will not only save time and fuel for the travellers but will also provide new employment opportunities and boost the tourism of the region whose economy is highly dependent on the tourism industry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gadkari-announces-new-expressway-travel-from-delhi-to-dehradun-in-2-hours-from-2023-101614417728983.html
27-02-2021||India||Airmeet becomes ISO certified, maintains high standard info security management||Airmeet, an all-in-one platform for virtual and hybrid events designed to deliver real engagement and better interactions, announced the issuance of the certificate for ISO 27001:2013 security standard.ISO 27001:2013 specifies the requirements for establishing, implementing, maintaining, and continually improving an information security management system within the organization's context.The certificate has been awarded for design, development, implementation and support of a virtual and hybrid platform for events, meetups and conferences along with innovative services and solutions. It also certifies the management system, service, or documentation procedure, has all the requirements for standardization and quality assurance.Keeping up with Airmeet's performance driven culture, the ISO certification is a testament of the company's devotion to continually enhance their product. In order to become ISO 27001:2013 compliant, the firm had to undergo a series of extensive audits, pre-audit assessments and reviews. ISO certification is one of the world's most highly regarded standards and a huge milestone for Airmeet."I feel extremely proud of our team and their commitment to deliver nothing but the highest quality standards for their clientele. We as a team are dedicated towards raising the bar for security standards in the industry and vow to continue improving ourselves in compliance with the set standards," said Lalit Mangal, Co-founder and CEO of Airmeet said, talking about the certification.Airmeet is an all-in-one virtual events platform for event organizers, marketers, community builders, and enterprises. Airmeet was founded in 2019 by IIT alumni and ex-CommonFloor executives Lalit Mangal, Manoj Kumar Singh and Vinay Kumar Jasti. With a core focus on creating the most interactive immersive virtual events platform for knowledge professionals, Airmeet's scalable platform supports a variety of event formats including fairs, expos, meetups, workshops, summits, town halls and more, virtually.Airmeet is currently a 60 plus person remote-first team based out of six countries. Airmeet has raised USD 15M plus in venture capital from Sequoia Capital India, Accel India, Redpoint Ventures US, Venture Highway, Global Founders Capital and some marquee angels. Airmeet is growing aggressively globally.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/airmeet-becomes-iso-certified-maintains-high-standard-info-security-management-101614415601311.html
27-02-2021||India||Covid spike in Mumbai: FIR against marriage halls; 120 buildings remain sealed||As part of its ongoing surveillance against crowding in the city, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation has filed an FIR against three marriage halls in Mumbai for allowing gatherings of around 300 people flouting Covid-19 norms. People at these gatherings were not wearing masks, news agency ANI reported.Several districts of Maharashtra have imposed restrictions as the number of daily infections has been on the rise since February. From February 22, social, political gathering has been barred across the state, including Mumbai. This is the only restriction imposed in Mumbai as of now which, however, is getting flouted.Maharashtra govt may restrict train travel for general public again in MumbaiThe civic authorities are sealing buildings where more than five active cases are being reported. The city has 120 actively sealed building — maximum in Ward S, which consists of areas like Bhandup, Powai, Kanjurmarh, Vikhroli and Nahur. A total of 13 areas across Mumbai have been marked as active containment zones.Mumbai's Dharavi on Friday recorded 16 new cases, which was the highest daily rise since October.Though Mumbai has been reporting over 1,000 cases daily, according to the authorities, the situation is not out of control yet as the recovery rate is also high at 93 per cent. On Friday, the city reported 1,034 fresh infections and three deaths.Amid speculations of lockdown, the authorities have said that the situation is being observed and a lockdown in the city at this point when economic activities have resumed is unlikely. But some restrictions on Mumbai locals timing may come back if the situation does not improve in the coming few days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-spike-in-mumbai-fir-against-marriage-halls-120-buildings-remain-sealed-101614418465321.html
27-02-2021||India||‘People want to know’: Kejriwal vs Gujarat BJP chief on civic election results||Delhi chief minister and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) chief Arvind Kejriwal continued his Twitter war of words with Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Gujarat unit president CR Paatil on Saturday, over the results of the recently-held municipal corporation elections in the western state, which is a BJP bastion.Also Read | ‘Honoured to serve Gujarat’: Modi after civic polls sweep“People of Gujarat want to know why even after 25 years of BJP in Gujarat: electricity is so expensive, farmers are dying by suicide, government hospitals and schools are in ruins, how many government schools closed, and why you tweeted in the middle of the night? I wish you had shown this restlessness to solve all these issues of the people of Gujarat,” Kejriwal tweeted in Hindi on Saturday, responding to a tweet by Paatil in which the state BJP chief highlighted how Gujarat’s voters gave their mandate ‘loud and clear.’गुजरात के लोग पूछ रहे हैं-25 साल भाजपा राज के बाद गुजरात में-बिजली इतनी महँगी क्यूँ?किसान आत्महत्या क्यूँ कर रहे हैं?सरकारी अस्पताल और स्कूल खंडहर क्यूँ?कितने सरकारी स्कूल बंद किए?आपने आधी रात को ट्वीट किया? काश, गुजरात के लोगों के इन मुद्दों के लिए इतनी बेचैनी होती https://t.co/aXleCPIFwjPaatil’s tweet was in response to an earlier ‘suggestion’ by the Delhi chief minister to ‘kindly not mock and underestimate the power of common man.’Gujarati voters gave their mandate loud and clear. Out of 6 Municipal Corporation, 65 AAP candidate in Surat, 41 in Vadodara, 155 in Ahmedabad, 39 in Bhavnagar and 68 in Rajkot lost their deposit.Never underestimate the power of common man! https://t.co/k0qURWLSsxIt all started on Friday when Paatil put out a tweet mocking Kejriwal, who held a road show in Surat to thank the voters of the ‘Diamond City.’ The AAP registered its most impressive performance in Surat, whose municipal corporation was among six for which elections took place on February 21. Of the 120 seats in the Surat Municipal Corporation, the AAP won 27 while the BJP bagged the remaining 93.Also Read | Kejriwal arrives in Surat to a hero’s welcome: You people did a miracle, he tells residentsIt was in this context that Paatil, the Lok Sabha MP from the state’s Navsari constituency, tweeted: “What Kejriwal Ji said-AAP got 27 seats in Surat municipal polls. What he didn’t share: 59 AAP candidates lost deposit in Surat, Every AAP candidate lost deposit in Vadodara, Ahmedabad and Bhavnagar, 44 out of 48 candidates in Jamnagar, 68 out of 72 in Rajkot lost deposit.” Kejriwal then responded by putting out the ‘do not mock and underestimate’ tweet, thus triggering the ongoing war of words.What Kejriwal Ji said – AAP got 27 seats in Surat municipal polls.What he didn’t share:-59 AAP candidates lost deposit in Surat-Every AAP candidate lost deposit in Vadodara, Ahmedabad and Bhavnagar.-44 out of 48 candidates in Jamnagar-68 out of 72 in Rajkot lost deposit.Of the 576 seats across the six municipal corporations – Ahmedabad, Bhavnagar, Jamnagar, Rajkot, Surat and Vadodara – the ruling BJP won 489, increasing its tally from 389 in 2015. The Congress, which is the principal opposition party, was reduced from 174 to 45. The AAP, meanwhile, is seeing its performance as major inroads in a BJP dominated state.Also Read | Congress leadership is finished in Gujarat: CM Vijay Rupani after civic pollsAssembly elections will take place in Gujarat in late 2022. In 2017, the BJP managed to eke out a slender majority in face of an impressive show by the Congress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/people-want-to-know-kejriwal-vs-gujarat-bjp-chief-on-civic-election-results-101614417554988.html
27-02-2021||India||Maharashtra IT minister Satej Patil says Centre's new regulation for digital platforms is 'dictatorial'||A Maharashtra minister on Saturday opposed the central government's regulations for social media platforms and over-the-top (OTT) players, terming them as "dictatorial" and a "threat" to democracy.The Minister of State for IT Satej Patil also said these regulations need to be opposed strongly as they infringe the privacy of individuals and free speech given by the Constitution."This move by the Centre needs to be fought tooth and nail. Such dictatorial regulations will not be accepted by the people of this democratic country," he said.Some bureaucrats deciding on what needs to be published and what not on any media platform is nothing but an attack on the freedom of press in India, Patil added."Such orders will not have any standing in the court of law," he said.Talking about the arrest of activist Disha Ravi for her alleged involvement in sharing a "toolkit" on social media related to the farmers' protest, the senior Congress leader from Kolhapur said the entire episode was an act to suppress the voice of those who are exercising their freedom to speech.A Delhi court recently granted bail to the activist.The Centre on February 25announced sweeping regulations for social media firms, such as Facebook and Twitter as well as OTT players like Netflix, requiring them to remove any content flagged by authorities within 36 hours and setting up a complaint redressal mechanism with an officer being based in the country.The regulations also make it mandatory for platforms such as Twitter and WhatsApp to identify the originator of a message that authorities consider to be anti-national and against security and sovereignty of the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maha-minister-says-centre-s-new-regulation-for-digital-platforms-dictatorial-101614418216084.html
27-02-2021||India||Ceasefire to have no bearing on counter-terrorism operations: Lt Gen||The Army's northern commander Lt Gen YK Joshi on Saturday said the agreement between India and Pakistan to strictly adhere to the ceasefire pact along the Line of Control (LoC) would have no bearing on the counter-terrorism operations in Jammu and Kashmir.He said the northern command, which looks after the security of the twin union territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh, remained on the highest alert and made possible what was believed impossible by the bravery, grit and determination of its personnel in the face of challenging situations along the border."Recently, the Director General of Military Operations (DGMOs) of India and Pakistan have announced an agreement to uphold ceasefire along the LoC from February 24 and 25 midnight. I want to assure that this ceasefire will have no bearing on the counter-terrorist operations and we will maintain our alertness," Lt Gen Joshi said at the northern command investiture ceremony here.During the ceremony, the Army commander presented two Bar to Sena medals (gallantry) and 50 Sena medals (gallantry) to the brave soldiers.He also presented three Sena medals (distinguished) and six Vishisht Seva medals for selfless service to the nation.Lt Gen Joshi also awarded unit appreciation to 26 units for their overall outstanding performance in the command theatre."The northern command has always stood like a shield against the attempts by our neighbouring countries to spread disturbance and it will continue to remain so in the future. Whenever anyone raises an evil eye on our country, Indian Army has replied strongly," Lt Gen Joshi said.Without naming China and Pakistan, he said Indian Army has maintained its domination on its borders with the neighbouring countries and helped in maintaining peace in the hinterland.Referring to the eastern Ladakh standoff with the Chinese army, he said Indian Army stood up to the challenge on the snow-capped mountains of the Line of Actual Control during the challenging situation in 2020 and maintained the highest alert."Our action is a glaring example of our training, bravery and pledge (to safeguard the borders) and it will be written in history with golden words. The northern command made possible what seemed impossible. The success of the operation (in Ladakh) is the glaring example of the bravery of Indian Army,” he said.He said 2020 was historic in many ways for the Army which demonstrated its mettle in eastern Ladakh by its "grit, determination, self-confidence, bravery and steadfastness".He said there has been a tremendous improvement in the basic deployment and preparedness and the efforts in this direction will continue. “The measures we have put in to strengthen our defences, the same efforts were made to maintain peace,” he said.In Kashmir, he said, the overall security situation saw a great improvement in the previous year as there has been a considerable reduction in terrorist-initiated incidents, stone-pelting activities and protests as a result of tireless efforts of the security forces and the people of Jammu and Kashmir.He said the Army also played a key role in the fight against the coronavirus pandemic."Under 'Seva Paramo Dharma', Army doctors, nursing staff, ambulance and medical corps staff without caring for their lives worked round-the-clock and are continuously doing so," he said.He congratulated those who were decorated for their bravery and conveyed his heartfelt gratitude to the brave men who made the supreme sacrifice on the borders, including at Galwan Valley, and in the battle against internal security challenges.Lt Col Joshi urged all ranks, ex-servicemen, civilians and their families to rededicate themselves to the cause of the nation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ceasefire-to-have-no-bearing-on-counter-terrorism-operations-lt-gen-101614418611239.html
27-02-2021||India||Telangana’s Siddipet tense after alleged slaughter of cows, police arrest 8 men||Police in Telangana’s Siddipet district on Saturday arrested eight people who allegedly slaughtered 15 cows on Friday, triggering communal tension in the district.Siddipet police commissioner Joel Davis said the accused have been identified as – Mohamamd Jubair (45), Mohammad Khaja (35), Mohammad Saddam (30), Mohammad Arafat (24), Mohmmad Ibrahim (32), Mohammad Arshad (25), Mohammad Arif (30) and Mohammad Javed (30) – all from Sajidpura area of Siddipet town.“Cases were booked against the accused under Sections 429, 153 and 153-A of Indian Penal Code, Section 10 of Prohibition of Cow Slaughter Act and Section 11 of Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act,” the police commissioner said.The accused were produced in the court of Siddipet judicial First Class magistrate, who remanded them to 14 days in judicial custody. They were shifted to Sangareddy jail, Davis said.According to the commissioner, the police received a complaint at around 6.30 pm on Friday evening that some cows were lying butchered at a poultry shed behind brick kilns near the bypass road on the outskirts of Siddipet town.“We rushed to the spot immediately and shifted the remaining cows to a cowshed. We summoned the district veterinary doctors to conduct a post-mortem of the slaughtered cows. The accused were absconding, but the police launched a manhunt and arrested them in the early hours of Saturday,” Davis said.The slaughter of cows and calves is banned in Telangana, but bulls can be slaughtered if a fit-for-slaughter certificate is issued. The police said the cows were slaughtered to sell beef.The news about the slaughter spread like a wild fire in the town leading to a tense atmosphere. Hundreds of workers of the Bharatiya Janata Party, Vishwa Hindu Parishad, Bajrang Dal and RSS took out a rally in protest against the cow slaughter.They staged a dharna near the old bus stand and raised slogans demanding stern action against the accused. The police swung into action and tried to disperse them but they refused to move till the accused were arrested.Senior police officials, including the commissioner of police and assistant commissioner of police Rameshwar were finally able to persuade them to withdraw their protest. They assured them that the culprits would be brought to book at the earliest.Davis appealed to the people not to believe any rumours and resort to communal violence. “Any deliberate campaign to exploit sensitive communal issues would be sternly dealt with,” the commissioner said.Telangana’ finance minister T Harish Rao, who hails from Siddipet, condemned the slaughter of cows and instructed the police to take stern action against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telanganas-siddipet-tense-after-alleged-slaughter-of-cows-police-arrest-8-men-101614418198878.html
27-02-2021||India||Fresh snowfall in Kashmir brings back cold wave-like conditions||Fresh snowfall in Kashmir on Saturday brought back cold wave- like conditions in the valley where the day temperature for the past week was several degrees higher than normal for this time of the year, officials said.Fresh snowfall was reported from most parts of Kashmir, including Srinagar, the summer capital of Jammu and Kashmir, the officials said. Macchil and Z-Gali areas in remote Kupwara district recorded snow between one foot to 18 inches, while places like Gulmarg, Baramulla and Sonamarg recorded up to seven inches of snow, they said.Srinagar has been witnessing rainfall since Friday night, followed by sleet and brief snowfall on Saturday.The precipitation has brought down the day temperature by several degrees. While the maximum temperature on Friday was 15 degrees Celsius, the minimum temperature was 3.8 degrees Celsius.The maximum temperature over the past week has been six to seven degrees above normal for this time of the year.The weatherman has forecast improvement in weather from Sunday evening.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fresh-snowfall-in-kashmir-brings-back-cold-wave-like-conditions-101614414378309.html
27-02-2021||India||IAF gifts 1971 war helicopter to Bangladesh, gets F-86 fighter as return gift||Commemorating 50 years of defeating Pakistan in the 1971 war, Indian Air Force (IAF) Chief RKS Bhadauria gifted a legacy Alouette III helicopter to Bangladesh Air Force (BAF) and got a legacy F-86 Sabre aircraft as a return gift from Dhaka."To mark the Golden Jubilee of 1971 War of Liberation, IAF chief RKS Bhadauria gifted a legacy Alouette III helicopter to the Bangladesh Air Force. Bangladesh Air Force chief too gifted an F-86 Sabre aircraft that had been restored by BAF after the 1971 war. Both legacy aircraft will find a place of pride in museums on both sides," IAF stated in a tweet.The exchange of aircraft took place in Dhaka during the four day trip of Bhadauria to Bangladesh where he visited different airbases and interacted with the top military leadership of that country.India and Bangladesh are celebrating 50 years of the liberation war in which the Pakistan Army was thrown out of Bangladesh and 90,000 of their troops were made to surrender.A number of events are being organised by both countries to celebrate the 50th anniversary of the decisive war.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iaf-gifts-1971-war-helicopter-to-bangladesh-gets-f-86-fighter-as-return-gift-101614417940064.html
27-02-2021||India||Petrol, diesel prices hiked again, 16th time this month||Oil companies on Saturday raised petrol prices by 24 paise per litre and diesel by 15 paise a litre, making the two fuels costlier by ₹4.87 per litre and ₹4.99 in just one month.With the 16th price hike in the current month, petrol is being sold at record ₹91.17 per litre in Delhi on Saturday and diesel at ₹81.47 a litre, less than 50 paise away from touching an all-time high. Diesel was sold at record ₹81.94 per litre on July 30, 2020 in Delhi.Domestic fuel retailers raised petrol and diesel rates on Saturday even as international crude oil prices fell on Friday because of firming dollar. Benchmark Brent crude on Friday closed at $66.13 per barrel, down by 1.12%. However, Brent crude surged by over 18% in February on supply disruptions in the US and rapid demand recovery with the launch of Covid-19 vaccination programmes.According to the latest data released on Friday, the Indian economy has come out of the contraction zone after the ease in lockdown restrictions and resumption of economic activities. India’s gross domestic product (GDP) grew at 0.4% on a year-on-year basis in the third quarter ending December 2020, after the economy suffered an annual contraction of 24.4% and 7.3% successively in the two preceding quarters because of a 68-day hard lockdown since March 25, 2020 to contain the spread of Covid-19.“Petrol and diesel are deregulated fuels. Public sector oil marketing companies (OMCs) take decisions on pricing of petrol and diesel in line with international prices of petrol and diesel, and not with international crude price,” an oil ministry official said requesting anonymity. The government had deregulated pricing of petrol on June 26, 2010 and diesel on October 19, 2014.State-run OMCs on June 16, 2017 implemented daily revision of petrol and diesel rates in the entire country. India’s fuel retail market is dominated by three state-run OMCs – Indian Oil Corporation (IOC), Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd (BPCL) and Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd (HPCL) with almost 90% market-share.Two executives working in state-run oil companies said retail prices of petrol and diesel are rising because of supply squeeze by producers’ cartel and high taxes on the two fuels by the Centre and states. The Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries and its allies (Opec+) on 12 April last year announced an unprecedented 9.7 million barrel per day cut in oil output, a 10th of the global output, from May 1, 2020, but did not adhere to the planned restoration of the supply reduction.The other reason for high prices of petrol and diesel is central and state levies. According to IOC, while the basic price of petrol is ₹31.82 per litre in Delhi, total levies on every litre of the fuel is ₹53.51 (central excise of ₹32.90 per litre and value-added tax of ₹20.61 a litre). Similarly, basic rate of diesel in Delhi is 33.46 per litre, but total tax on it is ₹43.48 per litre (central excise of ₹31.80 per litre and value-added tax of ₹11.68 a litre). Petrol and diesel rates vary across the country because of different value-added tax (VAT) and local levies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/petrol-diesel-prices-hiked-again-16th-time-this-month-101614417107783.html
27-02-2021||India||Cabinet secretary to hold review meeting with 8 states, UTs with rising Covid-19 cases||The cabinet secretary will chair a high-level review meeting on Saturday with eight states and union territories exhibiting a surge in Covid-19 cases, the Union Health Ministry said.The states showing a surge are Telangana, Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Punjab, Jammu and Kashmir and West Bengal.India's total Covid-19 active caseload is 1,59,590 which is 1.44 per cent of the total infections.Six states -- Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Gujarat -- have shown a surge in new cases in a span of 24 hours, the ministry underlined.Maharashtra continued to report the highest daily new cases at 8,333. It was followed by Kerala that reported 3,671 new cases and Punjab with 622 new cases.The ministry said 85.75 per cent of 16,488 new cases registered in a span of 24 hours are from six states and UTs."Eight states are displaying an upward trajectory in daily new cases," the ministry said. "In the last two weeks, Kerala has shown the maximum decline in the number of active cases, from 63,847 on February 14 to 51,679 today, while Maharashtra has shown the highest rise in active cases in the same period, from 34,449 on February 14 to 68,810 currently," the ministry added.The cabinet secretary will chair a high-level review meeting on Saturday with Telangana, Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, MP, Gujarat, Punjab, J&K and WB which are exhibiting a surge in cases, it said.A total of 1,42,42,547 vaccine doses have been administered through 2,92,312 sessions, as per the provisional report till 7 am.These include 66,68,974 healthcare workers (HCWs) who were administered the first dose, 24,53,878 HCWs who were given the second dose and 51,19,695 frontline workers (FLWs) who took the first dose.The second dose of Covid-19 vaccination started on February 13 for those beneficiaries who completed 28 days after receipt of the first dose. The vaccination of the FLWs started on February 2.As on Day 42 of the vaccination drive (February 27), a total of 7,64,904 vaccine doses were given. Out of these, 3,49,020 beneficiaries were vaccinated across 13,397 sessions for first dose (HCWs and FLWs) and 4,20,884 HCWs received the second dose of the vaccine.Eight states account for 62.75 per cent of the cumulative second dose vaccinations in India. Uttar Pradesh alone accounts for 12.64 per cent (3,10,058) of the total second dose vaccinations in India, the ministry said.Nine states and UTs have administered the first vaccine dose to less than 60 per cent of the registered healthcare workers. These are Arunachal Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Delhi, Telangana, Ladakh, Chandigarh, Nagaland, Punjab and Puducherry.Twelve states and UTs have reported vaccination coverage of more than 65 per cent frontline workers. These are Ladakh, Uttarakhand, Chhattisgarh, Himachal Pradesh, Odisha, Tripura, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Lakshadweep, Rajasthan, Kerala and Dadra and Nagar Haveli.The ministry said 12 states and UTs have reported vaccination coverage of less than 40 per cent of the frontline workers. These are Puducherry, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Meghalaya, Assam, Tamil Nadu, Manipur, Arunachal Pradesh, Telangana, Punjab, Nagaland, Goa and Mizoram.A total of 1,07,63,451 people have recovered so far, with 12,771 patients having discharged in a span of 24 hours. "India's Covid-19 recovery rate of 97.17 per cent is among the highest in the world," the ministry underscored.It said 84.79 per cent of the new recovered cases are observed to be concentrated in 6 states and UTs.Maharashtra has reported the maximum number of single-day recoveries with 4,936 newly recovered cases. As many as 4,142 people recovered in Kerala in a span of 24 hours followed by 642 in Karnataka.Besides, 113 deaths were reported in a span of 24 hours.Six states and UTs account for 82.3 per cent of the new deaths. Maharashtra saw the maximum casualties at 48. It was followed by Punjab with 15 daily deaths and Kerala reported 14 deaths in a span of 24 hours.Seventeen states and UTs have not reported any Covid-19 deaths in a span of 24 hours, the ministry highlighted. These are Gujarat, Odisha, Chandigarh, Jharkhand, Himachal Pradesh, Puducherry, Manipur, Mizoram, Lakshadweep, Ladakh, Sikkim, Daman and Diu and Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Andman and Nicobar Islands, Tripura, Meghalaya, Nagaland and Arunachal Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cabinet-secretary-to-hold-review-meeting-with-8-states-uts-with-rising-covid-19-cases-101614416024696.html
27-02-2021||India||Fishing hartal hits coastal belt in Kerala||A day long hartal, called by various outfits over the ongoing controversy regarding an alleged deep sea fishing contract between the CPI(M)-led government and a US-based company, hit life in coastal areas of Kerala on Saturday. Various pro-Congress outfits, under the banner of Matsya Mekhala Samrakshana Samithi, called for the hartal in the coastal belt. Boats did not venture into sea in the majority of places and hundreds of fishermen kept themselves away from their job, expressing solidarity with the agitation. Harbours and shops in coastal areas remained shut in various districts. Both boat owners and traditional fishermen were cooperating with the hartal, the Samithi sources said. As the government had already cancelled the MoUs in this regard with the EMCC International, the US-based firm, three outfits were staying away from the stir. However, leaders of other outfits claimed that the government's assurance lacks clarity. The Left government had decided to cancel a ₹5,000 crore memorandum of understanding (MoU) between KSIDC and the EMCC International, against which the Opposition Congress has been raising serious allegations. They had also cancelled another controversial MoU worth ₹2,950 crore between the Kerala Shipping and Inland Navigation Corporation (KSINC) and the same company to build 400 deep sea fishing trawlers and new harbours and for the port development activities. The MoUs were signed by the KSINC and KSIDC with EMCC International at a state government-sponsored global investors meet, ASCEND, in Kochi last year.The opposition Congress on Thursday had organised a day- long 'satyagraha' protest at Poonthura, a fishing hamlet near here, demanding removal of Fisheries Minister J Mercykutty Amma in connection with the controversial deal. They alleged that the deals, if implemented, would have adverselyimpacted the lives oflakhs of fishermen in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fishing-hartal-hits-coastal-belt-in-kerala-101614416002083.html
27-02-2021||India||India has highest stake in Rohingyas' return to Myanmar: India at UNGA||India has emphasised the need for an early return of displaced Rohingyas from Bangladesh to Myanmar, saying that it has the highest stake in resolving the issue since it is the only nation that shares a long border with both countries.Speaking at the informal UN General Assembly meeting on Friday on the situation in Myanmar after the military staged a coup this month, India’s Permanent Representative to the UN Ambassador T S Tirumurti said that it must be ensured that the recent developments in the country do not impede the progress made so far and the international community must encourage and support positive steps.Bangladesh is hosting over 1.1 million Rohingya refugees in Cox's Bazar, who fled Myanmar facing military crackdown, often considered as "ethnic cleansing" by many rights groups.Myanmar doesn’t recognise Rohingya as an ethnic group and insists that they are Bangladeshi migrants living illegally in the country.Myanmar military seized the power on February 1, detaining the country's de-facto leader Aung San Suu Kyi. The military coup took place at a time when Bangladesh was spearheading a desperate campaign for safe return of some 1.1 million Rohingyas.Tirumurti, addressing the issue of displaced persons from the Rakhine state of Myanmar, said India has the highest stake in resolving the issue of repatriation of the displaced persons since it is the only country that shares a long border with both Bangladesh and Myanmar.“We have continued to counsel our partners on the need for a balanced and constructive approach to this issue. For this, mobilisation of support for the developmental needs of the local people is crucial. India has been consistently encouraging stakeholders to find practical and pragmatic solutions,” he said.He emphasised the need for an early resolution of the issue of Rohingyas.Underscoring that a “collaborative and consensus-based approach” is key to arriving at a meaningful and practical outcome, Tirumurti said the international community must work to address the challenges that the concerned stakeholders continue to face so that this humanitarian problem is resolved in a timely manner.“India will continue to work with both the governments of Bangladesh and Myanmar to enable the earliest return of displaced persons to their homes in the Rakhine State in a manner that is safe, speedy and sustainable," he said.Commending Bangladesh for hosting over a million displaced persons in its territory, India said it is important for the international community to recognise and understand the humanitarian burden that Bangladesh continues to face and the efforts it has undertaken to ensure the well-being of the displaced persons.“The international community must further support, financially and otherwise, efforts of the government of Bangladesh and also assist in ensuring that issues relating to radicalisation in the camps and other security challenges are addressed in an expeditious manner,” Tirumurti said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-highest-stake-in-rohingyas-return-to-myanmar-india-at-unga-101614415694489.html
27-02-2021||India||J&K border residents thank PM Modi, Khan for ceasefire agreement||People living in the border areas of Jammu and Kashmir around the Line of Control (LoC) have expressed relief and gratitude towards Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Pakistani counterpart Imran Khan after both sides decided to cease firing along the LoC and all other sectors.Several residents around the tumultuous area have suffered due to tensions between the two countries, and many have lost limbs, eyes, and other body parts.Haji Mohd Shafi Naib, Sarpanch of the Pukharni village in Rajouri, described the grim conditions of the people in the village, saying that many used to be terrified to leave their homes due to constant fear."We used to be terrified to leave our houses. People rarely left their homes to go to work and schools have been closed for over a year and a half because we didn't want our children to leave the house. I can point out several houses that have bullet holes on doors and walls. I am grateful to Prime Minister Narendra Modi for his consideration for the people living in the border areas," he told ANI.He added, "I want to thank Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan for their decision. We have lost several villagers to cross-border firing and many have lost legs, hands and eyes. Now, we can finally sleep and work in peace."Another woman, Sharifa Begum who lost her older brother to a firing at the border told ANI, "I am glad that I can now start a new life and feel safe in my home. We are very grateful to the Modi government for the decision. I lost my older brother to such firing incidents a few years ago. Now my children and I can sleep in peace and focus on their education."Earlier on Thursday, after discussions between the Director Generals of Military Operations of India and Pakistan, the two sides have to cease firing along the Line of Control (LoC)and all other sectors with effect from midnight of February 24 to 25.The discussion between the two armies took place at a time when a large number of ceasefire violations were taking place along the LoC and violence levels were going up especially for the villagers living along the LoC on both sides."Both sides agreed for strict observance of all agreements, understandings and cease firing along the Line of Control and all other sectors with effect from midnight of February 24 to 25," a joint statement issued by the Defence Ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jk-border-residents-thank-pm-modi-khan-for-ceasefire-agreement-101614416205497.html
27-02-2021||India||Congress equally respects all religions, people, castes: Ghulam Nabi Azad||The strength of Congress is that it 'equally respect' all religions, people and castes, said the party's veteran leader Ghulam Nabi Azad, at a 'Shanti Sammelan' in Jammu on Saturday."Be it Jammu or Kashmir or Ladakh, we respect all religions, people and castes. We equally respect everyone, that is our strength and we will continue with this," said Azad.Azad's statement came after Congress leader Rahul Gandhi's 'North-South' remark that came while addressing a public rally in Thiruvananthapuram earlier this week.Also Read: Congress G-23 hold meet in Jammu, discuss Gandhian philosophy, honour Ghulam Nabi AzadAzad was joined by senior Congress leaders Anand Sharma, former Haryana Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda, Kapil Sibbal, Raj Babbar and Vivek Tankha during the 'Shanti Sammelan' in Jammu.Most of these leaders are seen as party's dissenters, also known as G-23 (or the group of 23 dissenting leaders, who had questioned the party's functioning in a letter to interim president Sonia Gandhi).Azad, while talking about the presence of senior party leaders in Jammu and Kashmir said, "These leaders are here because, in the last five-six years, all these friends did not speak any less than me in the Parliament over issues of Jammu and Kashmir, its unemployment, stripping off of statehood, finishing off industries and education, and implementation of GST."On the condition of anonymity, yesterday a senior leader of the Congress G-23 told ANI that the event in Jammu is a "show of party's strength" and a message to Rahul Gandhi: "We will tell the country that from north to south, India is one."Last year in August, G-23 leaders through a letter to interim Congress President Sonia Gandhi expressed their discontent and urged the top leadership of Congress to bring immediate reforms, including organisational elections from the grass-roots to the Congress Working Committee (CWC) level.Today, they are once again up in arms against the Gandhi family and their loyal close circle who are holding key positions in the party and the parliament.Rahul Gandhi was heavily criticised by BJP leaders after he had said "For the first 15 years, I was an MP in the North. I got used to a different type of politics. For me, coming to Kerala was refreshing as suddenly I found that people are interested in issues and not just superficially but going into detail in issues."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-equally-respects-all-religions-people-castes-ghulam-nabi-azad-101614416117457.html
27-02-2021||India||Chidambaram slams Centre over treating protesting farmers as 'enemies'||Criticising the Centre over its stand on the ongoing farmer protest, Congress leader P Chidambaram on Saturday said that the reward to the farm sector for growing at 3.9% in a recession year is to treat the protesting farmers as if they are enemies of the state."The reward to the farm sector for growing at 3.9% in a recession year is to treat the protesting farmers as if they were enemies of the state," Chidambaram tweeted.He alleged that the Prime Minister travels from Kerala to Assam but does not have time to travel 20 km to meet farmers."The PM travels from Kerala to Assam but does not have the time or inclination to travel 20 km to meet the farmers on the border of Delhi," he alleged.He further claimed that only 6% of the farmers are able to sell at minimum support price (MSP)."Yet he will claim that he has doubled the farmers' income. He will also claim that all farmers get MSP when the truth is only 6 per cent of farmers are able to sell at MSP," he added.Earlier, on Monday Congress leader Rahul Gandhi alleged that the three new farm laws passed by the Central government are designed to destroy the agriculture business and hand it over to Prime Minister Narendra Modi's "friends".Meanwhile, Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said the government has still left its door open for discussions with the farmers regarding the three new farm laws.Since November 26 last year, farmers have been protesting on the different borders of the national capital, against the three newly enacted farm laws: Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chidambaram-slams-centre-over-treating-protesting-farmers-as-enemies-101614415323989.html
27-02-2021||India||Despite record paddy procurement in Odisha, farmer continue protests||Amid continuing farmers’ protest over paddy procurement in Odisha, a BJP legislator from western Odisha district of Deogarh, has threatened to immolate himself alleging irregularities at procurement centres in his district.“I will immolate self if the paddy procurement process was not streamlined and faulty token system was not addressed,” BJP MLA Subash Chandra Panigrahi threatened the legislative assembly on Friday while senior Congress leader from Bolangir district, Narasingha Mishra staged protest in the middle of the House alleging irregularities in procurement.Panigrahi’s threat came just days after state cooperation minister Ranendra Pratap Swain told the assembly that the paddy procurement during the 2020-21 kharif marketing season had crossed last year's record. Against procurement of 53.31 lakh tonne of paddy in 2019-20 kharif marketing season, Odisha State Civil Supply Cooperation had procured over 57.67 lakh tonne of paddy till February 25.Despite the record paddy procurement this season, farmers across the state resorted to wildcat protests against the procurement system.Unlike previous years, this year, the protest from farmers and farmer organisations in Odisha during the paddy procurement seems to be shriller across the state.In Harichandanpur block of Keonjhar district, angry farmers staged a dharna and blocked the highway bypass by pilling up sacks of unsold paddy on Wednesday stopping vehicular movement along the Naranpur-Duburi road.In Patrapur area of Balasore district, hundreds of farmers stacked their paddy on road, protesting the delay in procurement. Last week, in western Odisha district of Bargarh, farmers dumped around 5000 quintals of unsold paddy protesting the non-procurement. In Angul district, farmers under the banner of All India Kishan Khet Majdoor Sangathan hit the streets demanding the withdrawal of the faulty token system for procurement of their crops.“We have been waiting for last several days to sell our paddy stocks. Yet the officials seem to be unmoved. We have become victims of apathy of the state government," the farmers alleged.Balasore district president of Odisha Krushak Sabha, Premaranjan Patra said unlike previous years, this year the farmers in other parts of the state have been inspired by the protests in north India over the three new contentious farm laws."The continuing protests and its coverage on social media has definitely made an impact on farmers in villages who are not willing to stay silent," said Patra.However, Biswajit Keshari Das, managing director of Odisha Civil Supply Corporation that procures the paddy from the farmers through primary agricultural cooperative societies, women self help groups, large sized adivasi multipurpose cooperative societies and pani panchayats said this year the procurement has exceeded last year’s due to increased registration of farmers at mandis."Last year, 12 lakh farmers had registered while this year close to 15 lakh farmers have registered. We may cross 60 lakh tonne of paddy procurement this time by the end of March as procurement is still going on in coastal Odisha," said Das. He said that despite the record procurement, storing the paddy was not an issue as it is being rolled over to FCI which accepts surplus rice and evacuates it to other consuming states.Paddy procurement plays a critical role in the state's rural economy. Odisha is among the top rice-surplus states in the country. Paddy is purchased from farmers who register themselves with their nearest societies before the start of procurement operations by submitting their personal/land/ bank account details through a pre designed registration form.The societies digitize the registration forms and upload the details in the Farmer Registration portal. All farmers have to provide identity proof in terms of Aadhaar cards. Registered farmers are then given advance tokens through SMS about the date of purchase.Farmer leader Lingaraj said the growing unrest over paddy procurement in Odisha this year had more to do with the state's inability to put its paddy purchase centres in order. "Odisha could procure mere 49 per cent of the total rice produced in the state during 2018-19 while in 2019-20 it could procure just about 53 per cent. Over the last few years, Odisha is witnessing record production of paddy and is unable to decide on how much to procure. It needs to put its mandis in order or else the government would face a bigger crisis during next year," he warned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/despite-record-paddy-procurement-in-odisha-farmer-continue-protests-101614415413936.html
27-02-2021||India||Congress G-23 hold meet in Jammu, discuss Gandhian philosophy, honour Ghulam Nabi Azad||The group of 23 Congress leaders, who had expressed dissent with the functioning of the party and even wrote a letter to Sonia Gandhi, held an event in Jammu on Saturday to launch a nationwide campaign to "save the idea of India".Former Rajya Sabha member of Parliament Ghulam Nabi Azad, one of the 23, has invited his colleagues for The Gandhi Global Family event. Apart from Azad, Kapil Sibal, Manish Tewari, Anand Sharma, Bhupinder Hooda and Raj Babbar are also present.The event has been organised days after Congress leader Rahul Gandhi's "North-South" remark, which has led to a controversy."Be it Jammu or Kashmir or Ladakh, we respect all religions, people and castes. We equally respect everyone, that is our strength and we will continue with this," Azad said while addressing the event.Other leaders said they want to strengthen the Congress party. "People say we are a part of G-23; for me, it's Gandhi 23. With the belief, resolve and thinking of Mahatma Gandhi, this nation's law and Constitution was formed. Congress is standing strongly to take these forward. 'G-23' want Congress to be strong," said Raj Babbar.He then lauded the work doen by Azad in all his years as parliamentarian. "Azadji was recently given farewell from Parliament, even the prime minister wept. He also didn't get angry by allegations made by (BJP leader) Rajmata Scindia and said 'I take these allegations seriously and a panel be formed and headed by Vajpayee and will accept their decision'. This is Gandhian ideology," said Babbar."Vajpayeeji then met Azad and apologised in Parliament. This is Gandhian philosophy," he added.The ostensible trigger for the public meetings is to honour Azad, a Congress veteran who recently retired from Parliament after four decades.According to one of the person aware of the details of the event, said that this meeting is a message to the Congress high command. “We want to tell the party leadership that we are united, we have an issue and they must do something about it," he added on condition of anonymity.Meanwhile, Azad, who reached Jammu on Friday, said that the Congress party will contest the coming assembly elections in four states and a union territory with its full might.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-g-23-hold-meet-in-jammu-discuss-gandhian-philosophy-honour-azad-101614415160068.html
27-02-2021||India||Govt sets 50 lakh users as threshold for 'significant social media intermediary' under new IT rules||The government has fixed fifty lakh registered users as the threshold for defining 'significant social media intermediary', which will have to adhere to additional obligations and compliance under the new IT rules that seek to crack down on misuse of social media platforms.The new rules, announced earlier this week, require 'significant social media intermediaries' to follow additional due diligence, including the appointment of a chief compliance officer, nodal contact person and resident grievance officer. All three officials will have to reside in India.They will have to publish a monthly compliance report and details of the contents removed proactively.At present, the country has 53 crore WhatsApp users, 44.8 crore YouTube users, 41 crore Facebook subscribers, 21 crore Instagram clients, while 1.75 crore account holders are on microblogging platform Twitter."...the Central Government hereby specifies fifty lakh registered users in India as the threshold for a social media intermediary to be considered a significant social media intermediary," the notification said.Earlier on Thursday, the government announced the tightening of the rules governing social media and streaming companies, requiring them to take down contentious content quicker, appoint grievance redressal officers and assist investigations.The move aims to make social media platforms like Facebook, WhatsApp, Twitter and Instagram - which have seen a phenomenal surge in usage over the past few years in India - more accountable and responsible for the content hosted on their platform.Social media companies will have to remove contentious content flagged by the government or court orders within 36 hours and take down posts depicting nudity or morphed photos within 24 hours of receiving a complaint, as per the latest intermediary rules.Also, social media platforms on being asked by the court or government will be required to disclose the first originator of the mischievous information that undermines the sovereignty of India, security of the state, or public order.The new guidelines followed the government's spat with Twitter over allegedly inflammatory tweets and hashtags supporting farmer protests, with the microblogging service initially refusing to comply with orders to take down about 1,500 such posts and accounts. Twitter complied after it was threatened with penal action.IT industry body Nasscom on Friday said the new rules for social media, OTT and digital media players aim to address concerns like grievance redressal, fake news and online safety but will require the right implementation to ensure they don't become onerous for the platforms.There are, however, sections of the industry, including tech firm Mozilla which felt that certain provisions could "harm" freedom of expression.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-sets-50-lakh-users-as-threshold-for-significant-social-media-intermediary-under-new-it-rules-101614413151151.html
27-02-2021||India||After new Covid-19 clusters in Bengaluru, civic body chief says surrounded by states with rising cases||The chief of Bengaluru’s civic boy on Saturday blamed the neighbouring states of Kerala and Maharashtra after three new Covid-19 clusters were reported in the capital city of Karnataka. The new cluster of coronavirus cases, reports said, have been found in Bengaluru's Yelahanka zone after 18 new Covid-19 cases were reported in Sambhram College of Management Studies, Agragami College and a residential complex. "New clusters have emerged. We are surrounded by Kerala and Maharashtra where cases are rising. Most people coming from here are students, they have been tested and isolated," ANI quoted the BBMP chief as saying.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19The BBMP chief on the emergence of the clusters said most of the people coming to the city are students and have been tested and isolated. Bengaluru on Friday reported 367 new Covid-19 cases and three deaths, while the state reported 571 new infections in the last 24 hours.According to the Union minister of health and family welfare’s data, six states of Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Gujarat have reported a major surge in the coronavirus disease cases in the last 24 hours. Maharashtra and Kerala, the states that have been recognised as a cause of concern by the BBMP chief, are the top contributors to the active coronavirus caseload of India. Maharashtra on Saturday reported the highest new Covid-19 cases at 8,333 followed by Kerala at 3,671.Also Read | New variants, negligence among reasons for fresh Covid-19 spread, say expertsIndia has been witnessing a surge in Covid-19 cases and last week too, the city of Bengaluru had reported the emergence of two new coronavirus clusters in Bommanahalli of the city. One of the two coronavirus infection clusters were also attributed to the students from Kerala. Found in Manjushree Nursing College near Kaval Byrasandra in Bengaluru out of 210, 40 people were Covid infected and most of those students had come from Kerala, as per the BBMP.The cabinet secretary is scheduled to chair a review meeting on Saturday with the state and Union territories reporting the increasing trajectory of the coronavirus disease cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-new-covid-19-clusters-in-bengaluru-civic-body-chief-says-surrounded-by-states-with-rising-cases-101614410060535.html
27-02-2021||India||'Hunar Haat' is making 'Vocal for Local' campaign a mass movement: Naqvi||'Hunar Haat', the Minority Affairs Ministry's flagship initiative to encourage master artisans, is playing a "phenomenal" role in making "Vocal for Local" campaign a mass movement, Union minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi said on Saturday.Addressing media persons at the 'Hunar Haat' being held at the Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium here, the Minority Affairs Minister said more than 12 lakh people have visited the 'Hunar Haat' which opened on February 20.The number of visitors is likely to go over 16 lakh in the next two days. The 'Hunar Haat' will be concluding on March 1, 2021.The 10-day 'Hunar Haat' was inaugurated by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh.Several ministers, MPs, senior government officials, various diplomats, industrialists have come here to encourage the artisans and craftsmen, Naqvi said.He said the ministry's flagship initiative has become a "proud promoter" of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's "Vocal for Local" campaign with people purchasing handmade products of indigenous artisans and craftsmen worth crores of rupees.More than 600 artisans and craftsmen from more than 31 States and UTs are participating in the 'Hunar Haat' in New Delhi.Artisans and craftsmen from states and UTs such as Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Bihar, Chandigarh, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Goa, Gujarat, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Kerala, Ladakh, Madhya Pradesh, Manipur, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, are participating in the 'Hunar Haat' here for the display and sale of their products.Naqvi said exquisite indigenous handmade products such as Applique work, jute-cane, brass products, wooden and clay toys, Ajrakh block print, blue art pottery, pashmina shawl, Khadi products, Banarasi Silk, Lac bangles, Rajasthani jewellery, Phulkari, Khurja pottery are available for sale and display at the 'Haat'.The visitors also enjoyed traditional delicacies from every region of the country at 'Bawarchikhana' section, Naqvi said.Different cultural and musical programmes were performed at he 'Haat' here by renowned artists of the country such as Shri Vinod Rathore, Nizami Brothers and Sudesh Bhonsle.The 'Hunar Haat' has provided employment and employment opportunities to more than 5,30,000 artisans, craftsmen and artists, Naqvi said.The Union Ministry of Minority Affairs will provide employment and employment opportunities to 7,50,000 artisans and craftsmen through 75 'Hunar Haat' which will be organised by completion of 75 years of the country's independence in 2022.The next 'Hunar Haat' will be organised in Bhopal (March 12-21); Goa (March 25-April 4); Kota (April 9-18). 'Hunar Haat' will also be organised in Hyderabad, Mumbai, Jaipur, Patna, Prayagraj, Ranchi, Jammu and Kashmir, among other places, this year.Naqvi said 'Hunar Haat' is available on virtual and online platform http://hunarhaat.org and on the Government e-Marketplace (GeM) Portal where the people can buy products of indigenous artisans and craftsmen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hunar-haat-is-making-vocal-for-local-campaign-a-mass-movement-naqvi-101614412704003.html
27-02-2021||India||'Can work in peace', says Rajouri village sarpanch on LoC ceasefire||The ceasefire announced by India and Pakistan along the Line of Control (LoC) has been appreciated widely across the world. The European Union said the agreement is an important step in the interest of regional peace and stability on which to further bilateral dialogue. The United States too welcomed the decision calling it a "positive step" towards greater peace and stability in South Asia.But for people living in villages near the LoC - who were most affected by firing along the border - it's a major relief. The head or sarpanch of one such village thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Pakistan counterpart Imran Khan on Saturday for the ceasefire.“We want to thank Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Pakistan prime minister Imran Khan for the ceasefire announcement at LoC. Earlier, due to cross-border firing, several villagers died, while some lost their legs, eyes and their hands. We can now sleep and work in peace,” the sarpanch of Pukharni village was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. The village comes under the Rajouri district in Jammu and Kashmir.For the past few years, Pakistan has engaged in shelling and firing along the LoC and the International Border (IB) resulting in casualties, damage to houses, schools, health centres and religious places."We have suffered a lot to due Pakistani firing and shelling.... Education of kids was affected. Houses were damaged. There were casualties. The fresh agreement of maintaining complete ceasefire is a happy news for us. Hope it stays," said another resident of Rajouri district.However, Subash Chander, a panch, said it is difficult to trust Pakistan. Similar apprehension was raised by Kerni resident Mohmmad Ashraf who welcomed the fresh agreement but raised question over the intention of Pakistan.On Thursday, India and Pakistan released a joint statement saying that they have held discussions regarding establishing a mechanism for hotline contact among both nations. Both sides also agreed to a ceasefire along the LoC from February 25. The announcement was made after a meeting between the Director Generals of Military Operations (DGMOs) of both the countries.During the budget session of Parliament, Union minister G Kishan Reddy had pointed out that 341 civilians were injured due to ceasefire violations along the International Border (IB) and the LoC in Jammu and Kashmir in 2018, 2019 and 2020. The Union minister also said that 70 civilians died during these ceasefire violations. He said that in the past three years 10,752 cases of ceasefire violations had occurred along the LoC.India’s decision to abrogate Article 370 and scrap Jammu and Kashmir’s special status in August 2019 along with the Pulwama suicide attack in February 2019 led to strains between the relationship of both nations and subsequently affected the truce signed between both nations in November 2003 when India and Pakistan had agreed to a ceasefire on the LoC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/can-work-in-peace-says-rajouri-village-sarpanch-on-loc-ceasefire-101614412975141.html
27-02-2021||India||A rare phone call, secret letter: How India got Pak to release IAF’s Abhinandan||After images of bleeding captured Indian Air Force (IAF) fighter pilot Wing Commander Abhinandan Varthaman were put out by Pakistan on this day in 2019, the then Research and Analysis Wing (RAW) chief on the instructions of Prime Minister Narendra Modi read the riot act to his ISI counterpart and warned Pakistan of severe consequences if the pilot of the Indian Air Force’s MiG-21 was harmed.Wing Commander Abhinandan’s MiG-21 Bison was shot down after successfully intercepting a posse of Pakistani fighters over the Line of Control in the Rajouri-Mendhar sector on 27 February, the day after the Balakot strike. Before the IAF pilot ejected from his ageing MiG-21 hit in the aerial dogfight over the skies of Jammu, he shot down a fourth-generation F-16 fighter. He was captured by villagers in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir where he landed and handed over to the Pakistan military.ALSO WATCH | J&K: Terror plot on Pulwama anniversary busted, temple may have been on targetHindustan Times, after talking to former air force, intelligence and politicians has been able to reconstruct some of the behind-the-scenes action in New Delhi and Islamabad that led Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan to release the Indian fighter pilot.PM Khan, who made the announcement in the National Assembly on 28 February, called the decision “a gesture of peace”.Wg Cdr Abhinandan Varthaman returned home on 1 March via the heavily-guarded Wagah-Attari border post. In the 60-odd hours that he spent in Pakistani custody, the air force pilot became the face of the conflict between the two countries when the Pakistani army released a set of propaganda videos that showed him in its custody. In one, he was blindfolded and blood-covered and yet, responded to questions from a Pakistan Army officer with remarkable composure, calm and dignity.It was soon after Pakistan put out the initial set of photographs of the pilot in captivity that India decided to move swiftly, and decisively to secure his release.It is understood that after PM Modi saw images of the bleeding Indian pilot and his smiling captors, he told the Indian intelligence chief to clearly communicate to Pakistan that New Delhi will stop at nothing if Abhinandan is harmed and demand his immediate release. PM Modi's message to Pakistan was: “Our weapon arsenal is not for Diwali.”The message was conveyed by then RAW chief Anil Dhasmana to his then ISI counterpart Lt General Syed Asim Munir Ahmed Shah over a secure line. Dhasmana was so blunt that even the ISI chief was surprised at how the RAW chief was going ballistic over Abhinandan’s photographs. The RAW chief told him that the consequences will entirely lie on Islamabad if the pilot was even touched and must be returned unharmed.To demonstrate that India meant business, the armed forces were ordered to ready mobile Prithvi ballistic missile batteries in the Rajasthan sector. It set alarm bells ringing in faraway Washington as well.Also Read: Pak military on damage control after MP says IAF pilot released out of panicIn his brief statement announcing Wing Commander Abhinandan’s release in the National Assembly on February 28, Prime Minister Imran Khan said he tried to speak with PM Narendra Modi the previous day but couldn’t get through.The first confirmation about Wing Commander Abhinandan’s release came sometime before PM Imran Khan made the announcement. HT learns ISI chief Lt Gen Shah had sent a secret letter to the RAW chief on February 28 morning, conveying the decision to release the IAF pilot. PM Modi was informed about the letter.The ISI chief was removed from his post in June 2019 after serving only eight months and replaced by a hardliner Lt General Faiz Hameed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-rare-phone-call-secret-letter-how-india-got-pak-to-release-iaf-s-abhinandan-101614411836282.html
27-02-2021||India||News updates from HT| Bengal polls 'key battle for democracy': Prashant Kishore||'Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Key battle for democracy’: Prashant Kishor tweets on Bengal pollsElection strategist Prashant Kishor, who is working with West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee and her Trinamool Congress (TMC) for the assembly elections. Read MoreWhat happens in marathon multi-phase polls? A look at scenariosThe election commission’s decision to hold an eight-phase assembly election in West Bengal has been criticised by the Mamata Banerjee government in the state. Read MoreIn push to make India a toy manufacturing hub, PM Modi’s advice against plastic usePrime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday called for a ‘vocal for local’ push to make the nation a toy manufacturing hub. Read MoreIndia vs England: That's the way the pitch crumblesEngland captain Joe Root would have laughed, had someone backed him to take the most economical five-wicket haul by a spinner in Test cricket’s 144-year history ahead of the day-night game against India. Read MoreElon Musk’s reply to a Mars-related tweet has left people in splitsIf you follow SpaceX CEO Elon Musk on Twitter, you may be aware of the various Mars related posts that he often shares. Read MoreHrithik Roshan reaches Crime Branch office to record statement against Kangana Ranaut. See picsHrithik Roshan visited the Mumbai Police's Crime Branch office on Saturday to record a statement in connection with his 2016 complaint about fake emails in his name to Kangana Ranaut. Read More'Grabbed my p*nis': Designer Alexander Wang faces new sexual assault allegationsAcclaimed American designer behind the eponymous brand, Alexander Wang is under fire once again after a New York student recently accused him of sexual assault. Read MoreHima Das inducted as DSP in Assam Police, says 'will continue athletics career'Star sprinter Hima Das was formally inducted as Deputy Superintendent of Assam Police on Friday. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-bengal-polls-key-battle-for-democracy-prashant-kishore-101614408660022.html
27-02-2021||India||3 men accused of gang rape of Noida woman arrested in Hapur after shootout||Three men accused of gang raping a woman on Wednesday night were arrested after an encounter in Pilkhuwa area of Uttar Pradesh’s Hapur district on Saturday morning, police said.The accused sustained bullet injuries in their legs in the encounter.Additional superintendent of police of Hapur Sarvesh Mishra said that the accused have been identified Ankit Tomar (26), Akash Tomar (21) and Aakil (27) and auto rickshaw driver of Galandpur village of Pilkhuwa.The survivor who is from Noida had filed a complaint that she was abducted by three men in an auto rickshaw and gangraped.Mishra said that police identified the auto rickshaw and the accused after receiving inputs from local informers. The locations of their mobile phones were also found to be at the crime scene as narrated by the survivor.A Hapur police team tracked them down at 5 am near a dental college on national highway 24 when they were trying to flee in the auto rickshaw . They fired at the police team when asked to stop and in exchange of fire they sustained bullet injuries in their legs, Mishra said."Three country made pistols and the auto rickshaw used in the crime were recovered from their possession,” said Mishra. The officer also said that the accused have been admitted to a hospital for treatment.The woman's garments were also recovered from the scene of the crime.He further said that during interrogation accused also admitted of committing gang rape with a girl after abducting her in their auto rickshaw almost a month ago. They repeated the crime with the woman from on Wednesday night. He said one of the accused Ankit Tomar was also jailed in 2013 in a rape case.The accused used to target working girls and women who return to their home in the night after completing their day duty. The Noida woman whom they gangraped on Wednesday night works in a jewellery shop in Indirapuram area of Ghaziabad and had boarded the auto rickshaw from Lal Kuan area to go home. Ankit and Akash were sitting on the back seat posing as passengers with the woman and Aakil was driving the auto. They overpowered the woman and drove to a secluded place where the trio gangraped her.Mishra said that after committing the crime they stopped an auto rickshaw on the highway and gave its driver ₹30 to drop the woman at Lal Kuan. The victim then approached Masuri police station in the night to lodge her report but she was sent to Pilakhua police station where her report was lodged under section 376 D of the IPC on Thursday morning.The additional SP said that teams were formed to identify the accused and CCTV footage was examined. Inputs by local informers eventually helped to track and arrest the accused, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-men-accused-of-gang-rape-of-noida-woman-arrested-in-hapur-after-shootout-101614410843742.html
27-02-2021||India||Marathi Language Day 2021: All you need to know||To honour the birth anniversary of renowned Marathi poet Vishnu Vaman Shirwadkar, Marathi Language Day is celebrated annually on February 27. Shirwadkar, also popularly known as 'Kusumagraj', was an eminent Marathi poet, playwright, novelist, short story writer, and humanist. He wrote 16 volumes of poems, three novels, eight volumes of short stories, seven volumes of essays, and 18 plays and six one-act plays all of which centred on the theme of freedom, justice, and social evils like poverty.The government started celebrating 'Marathi Rajbhasha Gaurav Din' after Kusumagraj's death in 1999. Kusumagraj was the recipient of several state awards and national awards including the 1974 Sahitya Akademi Award in Marathi for Natsamrat, Padma Bhushan in 1991 and the Jnanpith Award in 1987. He also served as the president of the Akhil Bharatiya Marathi Sahitya Sammelan held at Margao in 1964.Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray congratulated the people of Maharashtra urging them to increase the use of the Marathi language in their daily lives. He also reminded people of the role of poet Shirwadkar in the promotion of the Marathi language and greeted the poet on his birthday. “I am Marathi, my Marathi!' Let's save the bow! Such is the appeal. Let's think in Marathi, let's speak in Marathi, let's express. Let's increase the use of Marathi in daily life!” Thackeray said.The day is celebrated to recognise and honour the greatness of Marathi literature. The Marathi language, which contains some of the oldest literature of all modern Indo-Aryan languages, is one of the most spoken languages in India with 42 dialects, out of which some of the most common ones are Vaidarbhi, Zadi Boli, Konkani and Khandeshi. The syntax of the language and the grammar come from Prakrit and Pali.Two special awards for individuals taking initiatives to promote Marathi literature are also given on this day. Various cultural programmes are held across Maharashtra in schools and other institutions to celebrate Marathi Bhasha Diwas. Although owing to the ongoing pandemic and recent spike in cases in Maharashtra, the celebrations this year will be muted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/marathi-language-day-2021-all-you-need-to-know-101614409635915.html
27-02-2021||India||US debt soars to $29 trillion, owes India $216 billion||The US, the world's largest economy, owes India USD 216 billion in loan as the country's debt grows to a record USD 29 trillion, an American lawmaker has said, cautioning the leadership against galloping foreign debt, the largest of which comes from China and Japan.In 2020, the US national debt was USD 23.4 trillion, that was USD 72,309 in debt per person.“We are going to grow our debt to USD 29 trillion. That is even more debt owed per citizen. There is a lot of misinformation about where the debt is going. The top two countries we owe the debt to are China and Japan, not actually our friends,” Congressman Alex Mooney said.“We are at global competition with China all the time. They are holding a lot of the debt. We owe China over USD 1 trillion and we owe Japan over USD 1 trillion,” the Republican Senator from West Virginia said on the floor of the US House of Representatives as he and others opposed the latest stimulus package of USD 2 trillion.In January, US President Joe Biden announced a USD 1.9 trillion coronavirus relief package to tackle the economic fallout from the pandemic, including direct financial aid to average Americans, support to businesses and to provide a boost to the national vaccination programme.“The people who are loaning us the money we have to pay back are not necessarily people who have our best interest at heart. Brazil, we owe USD 258 billion. India, we owe USD 216 billion. And the list goes on the debt that is owed to foreign countries,” Congressman Mooney said.America’s national debt was USD5.6 trillion in 2000. During the Obama administration, it actually doubled.“Since the eight years Obama was President, we doubled our national debt. And we are adding another—projected here—a completely out of control debt-to-GDP ratio,” he said urging his Congressional colleagues to consider this national debt issue before approving the stimulus package.“So I urge my colleagues to consider the future. Don’t buy into the—the government has no money it doesn’t take from you that you are going to have to pay back. We need to be judicious with these dollars, and most of this is not going to coronavirus relief anyway,” he said.Congressmen Mooney said that things have gone completely out of control. The Congressional Budget Office estimates an additional USD 104 trillion will be added by 2050. The Congressional Budget Office forecasted debt would rise 200 per cent.“Today, as I stand here right now, we have USD 27.9 trillion in national debt...That is actually a little more than USD 84,000 of debt to every American citizen right here today,” Mooney said.“We have actually borrowed USD 10,000 per person in one year. I mean, that is out of control,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/american-debt-soars-to-usd-29-trillion-owes-india-usd-216-billion-101614408504426.html
27-02-2021||India||What happens in marathon multi-phase polls? A look at scenarios||The election commission’s decision to hold an eight-phase assembly election in West Bengal has been criticised by the Mamata Banerjee government in the state. The TMC and opposition parties other than the BJP have questioned the need to spread over the polling process between March 27 and April 29; while elections in Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Puducherry are being held in a single phase on April 6. In Assam the election will be held in three phases from March 27 to April 6.“If elections can be held in Bihar and Assam in three phases, then why are they being held in eight phases here? Who will be benefited? The ECI should be more rational,” Banerjee said.The Election Commission for its part said the polling has been spread over a month taking into cognizance law and order considerations in the state.This is not the first-time questions have been raised over the staggered polling exercise.In October 2019 elections were held for the 288-seat Maharashtra assembly and the 90-member Haryana assembly in a single day while as Jharkhand that has 81 assembly constituencies went to polls in five phases from November 30 to December 20. The opposition had questioned the need for a staggered election in a state with population and area smaller than Maharashtra.A former EC official said though the poll panel, which is mandated to carry out elections to the Lok Sabha and the state assemblies, does take into consideration the suggestions on the polling schedule made by the political parties, the final decision rests on inputs from the state election commission and law enforcement agencies.“At the time of Jharkhand elections many people had questioned the ECs decision to hold election in five phases. The commission had to take into cognizance the security paraphernalia that would be required to hold elections in the state where more than half of the constituencies are affected by Maoist violence.” If elections are being held in a clutch of states, staggered elections allow for the deployment of central forces, the official added.How do parties benefit from a multiphase electionA BJP functionary, speaking on condition of anonymity, said a staggered election allows the parties to recalibrate strategy. “There are times when the mood on the ground shifts, or public perception about a party change. During such times, the parties get enough time to go back to the drawing board and makes quick amends or changes to its strategy,” the functionary said.Sometimes, a phased election allows the party to address the concerns such as in-fighting in the cadre. “There have been elections where the voter turnout has been dismal or not up to the expectations of a party. In such a scenario, the party command can galvanise the cadre to push for better turn out,” the functionary said.Political scientist Sanjay Kumar of the Centre for the Study of Developing Societies said the parties benefit from the wave on the ground more than the phases. A staggered election in some cases allows parties to benefit from the prevalent mood.“We do not have any empirical evidence to prove how challengers benefit from a multiphase election. But if there is no wave or the mood is against a party, the number of phases will not matter,” he said.Kumar said though exit and opinion polls are banned during an election, there are unofficial communication channels that relay the voter sentiment. “These unofficial communication channels can have an impact on the undecided voters [during the subsequent phases]. If the mood is in favour of a particular party, there is a small percentage of voters, who prefer voting for the winning side."A second BJP functionary said while the party had suggested a multiphase election in West Bengal, a study of previous assembly elections suggests that the incumbents do not seem to benefit from a prolonged polling exercise. “There is no data to suggest how the challengers benefit from prolonged elections. But in the past, we have seen a trend,” the second functionary, who oversaw elections in a clutch of states, said.The functionary cited the West Bengal elections spread over six phases in 2011 when Banerjee stormed to power. “She made the most of the anti-incumbency against the Left government that was in power for over three decades. She also benefited from the sentiment prevalent at that time against land acquisition in Nandigram and Singur and against criminalisation of politics.”A similar trend was seen in Uttar Pradesh in 2012, when the Samajwadi Party defeated the incumbent Bahujan Samaj Party in an election spread over seven phases. “Incidentally, in Uttar Pradesh, too, land acquisition was a major poll issue,” the second BJP functionary said.Ahead of the 2012 election, the Congress initiated a campaign against the Mayawati government’s land acquisition for a highway project in Bhatta Parsaul village.A ruling Janata Dal (United) leader from Bihar said a campaign spread over several phases costs money and in the long run, a party that can sustain canvassing for long can also hope to benefit from it. “Sustained messaging, rallies and outreach programmes can retain the voters’ interest in elections and allow a party to benefit."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-happens-in-marathon-multi-phase-polls-a-look-at-scenarios-101614407025789.html
27-02-2021||India||Delhi HC asks Animal Welfare Board to sort out row between animal lovers and residents over feeding of stray dogs||The Delhi High Court has asked the Animal Welfare Board of India (AWBI) to intervene in the row between some animal lovers and residents of a sector in Vasant Kunj in the national capital over feeding of stray dogs.The court also asked the AWBI to identify a spot where the canines can be fed so that "peace and harmony" can be maintained in the locality.Justice Prathiba M Singh issued the direction on a plea moved by the animal lovers against the "hindrances", being created by the Residents Welfare Association (RWA) of E-2 Block of Vasant Kunj, in the feeding of stray dogs and in taking care of the canines.The petitioner-animal lovers, represented by advocate Abhik Chimni, told the court whenever they try to feed the street dogs, "enormous resistance is caused by the local residents".Justice Singh said there was a 2009 order of the high court directing the AWBI to identify suitable spots or sites in colonies for feeding stray dogs."It, however, appears that there has been no consensus in identifying the suitable spot. The RWA appears to have been having apprehensions in view of the fact that children and senior residents also roam around in the open area of the block, for their own recreation," the court noted.The court also noted that the residents of the area were also concerned towards the safety of the children and others living there."The residents and the members of the RWA as also the petitioners have to act in harmony with each other and not in a manner which shall lead to unpleasant circumstances in the colony."Accordingly, in order to maintain peace and harmony in the locality,...AWBI shall send two representatives on March 8 to hold a meeting with the RWA and the petitioners," the court directed.It further directed that during the meeting, the AWBI and the RWA shall interact with residents and the petitioners and identify a spot, not used by children, senior citizens or others, for feeding and taking care of the stray dogs."Once the said spot is identified, the petitioners would feed and take care of the street dogs at that particular spot, and no hindrance, whatsoever, shall be caused to the petitioners in carrying out any activities in respect of the street dogs at the said spot," the court said.It said the SHO of the area shall also be present at the time of the meeting and the officer shall ensure that peace and harmony is maintained.With the direction, the court disposed of the plea moved by the animal lovers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-hc-asks-animal-welfare-board-to-sort-out-row-between-animal-lovers-and-residents-over-feeding-of-stray-dogs-101614407757641.html
27-02-2021||India||As Covid-19 surges, Gujarat extends night curfew in 4 major cities by 15 days||In view of the recent spike in coronavirus cases, the Gujarat government has decided to extend the night curfew in four major cities of the state, including Ahmedabad, by another 15 days.The ongoing night curfew in Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot, was to end on February 28.An official statement issued on Friday night said, the government decided to extend the night curfew by another 15 days in view of the recent rise in coronavirus cases in four municipal corporations.This is the fifth extension of the night curfew, which first came into force in November last year after a spurt in COVID-19 cases in these cities post-Diwali.The ongoing night curfew starts at midnight and ends at 6 am. Although the statement about the extended night curfew does not mention the time, the existing schedule is likely to continue.In view of increasing COVID-19 cases, the government has decided to expedite the vaccination drive, the statement said.The statement was issued followinga meeting chaired by Chief Minister Vijay Rupani on Friday evening to review the coronavirus situation in Gujarat.In the first phase of COVID-19 vaccination, out of the total 4.82 lakh health care workers, more than 4.07 lakh (or 84 percent) have been administered the first dose of the vaccine, the statement said.Also, out of the total 5.41 lakh frontline workers, 4. 14 lakh (or 77 percent) have been covered in the drive so far.The second dose of COVID-19 vaccine has been given to 1.23 lakh healthcare workers till now, it said.The health department claimed that Gujarat ranks first in the country in terms of vaccination per million population.The state has so far received 15.70 lakh doses of Covishield, and 4.83 lakh Covaxin.The vaccination drive for senior citizens and those with co-morbidities will begin from March 1 as per the Centre's instructions, it said.Gujarat has so far reported 2,69,031 COVID-19 cases, out of which 2,62,487 patients have recovered. On Friday, it reported 460 new cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-covid-19-surges-gujarat-extends-night-curfew-in-4-major-cities-by-15-days-101614406412347.html
27-02-2021||India||141 farmers died by suicide in last 10 months, says Chhattigarh government||A total of 141 farmers died by suicide in Chhattisgarh in 10 months from April 2020 to February 1, 2021 due to different reasons, the state government told the legislative assembly on Friday.Agriculture minister, Ravindra Chaubey gave the figure in a reply to leader of opposition Dharmlal Kaushik’s question on the number of farmers’ suicides April 2020 and February 1, 2021 in the state and what were reasons for them.Subsequently, the opposition BJP demanded a probe into each case and compensation to the families of the deceased farmers.Chaubey in his reply to Kaushik said, “In a case of suicide by farmer, Dhaniram Markam, of Kondagaon district, the Patwari (lower level revenue officer) Dongar Nag was suspended for allegedly committing mistake in crop girdawari and (land) record documentation.”Kaushik responded by saying that while a large number of farmers have died by suicide in just 10 months, only a patwari has been suspended in one case in the name of action.“I demand that all such cases of suicides be probed and the family members of such farmers should be compensated,” said Kaushik.Congress MLAs pointed out that the previous BJP government in Chhattisgarh had not paid any compensation to families of farmers who died by suicide.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/141-farmers-died-by-suicide-in-last-10-months-says-chhattigarh-government-101614406364530.html
27-02-2021||India||In push to make India a toy manufacturing hub, PM Modi’s advice against plastic use||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday called for a ‘vocal for local’ push to make the nation a toy manufacturing hub and simultaneously advised manufacturers to minimise the use of plastic while urging them to make eco-friendly toys.As he inaugurated the India Toy Fair 2021, Modi lauded the practices of reusing and recycling in the country and also appreciated toys made of natural materials. “The way reuse and recycling have been a part of the Indian lifestyle, it is also seen in our toys. Most Indian toys are made from natural and eco-friendly items, the colours used in them are also natural and safe,” the Prime Minister said as he addressed the event virtually. He also appealed to toymakers to try to make products that are better for both “ecology and psychology.” “Can we try to use less plastic in toys? Use such things that can recycle,” Modi said. PM Modi hailed the nation's concepts and competence in the field of toys and said, “India has tradition and technology. We can take the world back towards eco-friendly toys. Our software engineers can through computer games take the stories of India to the world” The Prime Minister also pointed to the increase in demand for handmade toys and said that people look to connect with the experience associated with the toy. “If there is a demand for Made in India today, then the demand for handmade in India is also increasing equally. Today people do not only buy toys as a product but also want to connect with the experience associated with that toy. So we have to promote handmade In India as well,” he said.Modi informed that India has now ranked the toy industry in 24 major sectors and National Toy Action Plan has also been prepared, which includes 15 ministries and departments that aim to make the industry competitive and self-reliant in and subsequently India's toys go out into the world.More than 1000 exhibitors from across 30 states and Union territories have displayed their products in the e-commerce enabled virtual exhibition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/must-try-to-use-less-plastic-in-toys-pm-modi-101614406403972.html
27-02-2021||India||PM Modi pushes for 'vocal for local' mantra as he inaugurates India toy fair||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday inaugurated the India Toy Fair via video conferencing. During the event, PM Modi interacted with toymakers from various parts of the country and said, making toys is not just a business opportunity, "but a way to strengthen the centuries-old tradition of the country.""Our relation with toys is as old as the civilisation itself. and our temples stand testimony to the rich culture of toymaking in India," he also said, adding, "Our temples stand testimony to the rich culture of toymaking in India.""We used to develop toys which helped in all-round development of a child," said the prime minister while interacting with the toymakers. "Toys imbibed with Indian thought helped our children get imbued in our values," he also said.He also highlighted how toys help children develop scientific temperament. "These toys help them understand concepts like rotation etc in practical aspect," he said.PM Modi also appealed to toymakers to make toys that are beneficial to ecology and psychology. He also urged toymakers to minimise the use of plastics in toys and use recyclable materials.PM Modi also raised concerns about the popularity of imported toys and said that India's heritage of artists have been ignored over the last 70 years. He further said "the imported toys brought external thoughts with them. We will have to change this situation together and be more vocal for local."National toy action plan has been launched to make toymaking competitive and make India more self-reliant, PM Modi also said, adding,"states will have equal participation in development of toy clusters."The fair will be held from February 27 to March 2, 2021. It aims to bring together all stakeholders including buyers, sellers, students, teachers, designers etc on a virtual platform to create sustainable linkages and encourage dialogue for the overall development of the industry.Over 1000 exhibitors from across 30 states and union territories will display their products in e-commerce enabled virtual exhibition. It will showcase traditional Indian toys as well as modern toys including electronic toys, plush toys, puzzles and games.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-just-business-opportunity-a-means-to-strengthen-india-s-age-old-culture-of-sports-says-pm-modi-at-virtual-toy-fair-101614406064164.html
27-02-2021||India||Odisha court orders attachment and auction of properties of chit fund firm||A court in Cuttack on Friday ordered attachment of Seashore Group's properties worth ₹650 crore over 13 years after the chit fund company defrauded investors in Odisha of ₹578 crore. It ordered that movable and immovable assets of the firm, including 197-acre land, 1.385 kg gold, two quintal silver be attached for their subsequent auctions."The court order came after the finance department attached the same in 2013 under the OPID [the Odisha Protection of Interests of Depositors] Act framed to protect the interest of depositors cheated in financial and real estate scams," said special public prosecutor Subrat Mohanty. He said after this, the price of the land would be reassessed as per the benchmark valuation of the state government as the previous assessment was done a decade ago. "The land and other things attached would be auctioned by the competent authority and the money deposited in the bank account. After that the depositors of Seashore who had lost the money in the scam would be identified and compensated."The group is among 44 chit fund companies facing a Central Bureau of Investigation probe since May 2014 for raising around ₹578 crore from people without listing itself in the stock exchange. Prashant Dash, a 50-year-old former economics lecturer, started the group in 2008. He offered 36% interest per annum to the investors, which was nearly four times the rates offered by the nationalised banks.Dash was arrested in 2013 and released on bail in 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-court-orders-attachment-and-auction-of-properties-of-chit-fund-firm-101614401034269.html
27-02-2021||India||India reports 16,488 Covid-19 cases, 113 deaths; tally over 11.07 million||India reported 16,488 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 113 related deaths in the last 24 hours, marginally lower than Friday, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Saturday morning. The country’s tally stands at 11,079,979 and the death toll to 156,938, the health ministry’s data showed at 8am. On Friday morning, there were 16,577 Covid-19 and 120 people had succumbed to the viral disease across the country. The number of active cases has gone up to 159,590.With 12,771 patients of the coronavirus disease recovering between Friday and Saturday morning, India’s recovery tally has gone up to over 10.76 million and the national recovery rate is 97.14%, data showed.Ahead of the second phase of the government’s vaccination drive from March, 14,242,547 people have been inoculated against the coronavirus disease so far. The first phase of the country’s mammoth vaccination drive started on January 16.Also read | New variants, negligence among reasons for fresh Covid-19 spread, say expertsIn Maharashtra, which has been reporting a surge in Covid-19 cases, the local administration in a few Vidarbha districts like Amravati, Akola, Yavatmal and Washim has imposed restrictions. A seven-day lockdown in Amravati city and Achalpur town started Monday evening, while other districts have restricted shop and establishment timings. Districts in Marathwada, including Parbhani, Hingoli, Nanded, Latur, have imposed a night curfew and restriction on the travellers coming from the affected Vidarbha districts. Schools and colleges in all these districts have been closed for few weeks.Schools, colleges, and coaching classes in Nagpur will also remain closed till March 7 in view of rise in Covid-19 cases, Maharashtra’s power minister Nitin Raut had said on Monday. Raut, who is the guardian minister of Nagpur city, had said that main markets will remain shut on weekends, however, hotels and restaurants can run at 50 per cent capacity.Also read | Covid-19 surge in Maharashtra, Kerala: How each state fared in last 5 daysAmid a surge in the cases of the coronavirus disease, the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) extended the existing Covid-19 guidelines for surveillance, containment, and caution up to March 31 and asked states to speed up the their vaccination drive. "While there has been a substantial decline in the active and new COVID-19 cases, there is a need to maintain surveillance, containment, and caution so as to fully overcome the pandemic. States/Union Territories have also been advised to speed up the vaccination of the target population so as to break the chain of transmission and overcome the pandemic," the MHA said.Also read | Covid-19: UP makes testing of those coming in from Maharashtra, Kerala mandatoryThe MHA has advised that strict containment measures must be followed within the containment zones and said that the focused approach on surveillance, containment, and strict observance of the guidelines/SOPs, as envisaged in the guidelines issued on January 27, 2021, needs to be enforced strictly by all states and Union territories.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-reports-16-488-covid-19-cases-113-deaths-tally-over-11-07-million-101614399569206.html
27-02-2021||India||Imran Khan says onus on India for progress after LoC ceasefire agreement||Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan on Saturday said the onus is on India to create an “enabling environment for further progress” in bilateral relations following Thursday’s surprise announcement about both countries recommitting themselves to the 2003 ceasefire on the Line of Control (LoC).In a set of tweets marking the second anniversary of Pakistan’s retaliatory air strikes after the Indian Air Force (IAF) targeted a Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) camp at Balakot in 2019, Khan also said India must take steps to meet the Kashmiri people’s right to self-determination.Pakistan, he added, is ready to move forward to resolve “all outstanding issues through dialogue”.“I welcome restoration of the ceasefire along the LoC. The onus of creating an enabling environment for further progress rests with India,” Khan tweeted.“India must take necessary steps to meet the long-standing demand & right of the Kashmiri people to self determination acc to UNSC resolutions,” he added.This was Khan’s first formal reaction to the decision by the armies of India and Pakistan on February 25 to strictly adhere to the truce on the LoC, following his return from an official visit to Sri Lanka this week.There was no immediate response from Indian officials to Khan’s tweets.The ceasefire, which was put in place in November 2003, has frayed due to thousands of violations in the past few years. The decision by both sides to recommit themselves to the truce was the apparent outcome of behind the scenes contacts between senior security officials of the two countries.The external affairs ministry had said on Thursday that the ceasefire agreement didn’t amount to a change of India’s position on key issues related to Pakistan.“India desires normal neighbourly relations with Pakistan. We have always maintained that we are committed to addressing issues, if any, in a peaceful and bilateral manner,” ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava had said.“On key issues, our position remains unchanged. I don’t need to reiterate it,” he added.Khan also hailed the role of Pakistan’s armed forces in the air strikes that were launched on the LoC by his country on February 27, 2019, following IAF’s bombing of the JeM facility in Balakot in retaliation for the suicide attack at Pulwama that had killed 40 Indian troopers.The air strikes triggered aerial battles between combat aircraft of the two countries and Wing Commander Abhinandan Varthaman of the IAF was shot down in a dog fight. He was captured and briefly detained by Pakistan before Khan announced during a speech in Parliament that Varthaman would be freed.“I congratulate the entire nation & salute our Armed Forces on the 2nd Anniversary of our response to India's illegal, reckless military adventure of air strikes against Pakistan. As a proud & confident nation, we responded with determined resolve at a time & place of our choosing,” Khan tweeted.“We also demonstrated to the world Pakistan’s responsible behaviour in the face of India's irresponsible military brinkmanship, by returning the captured Indian pilot. We have always stood for peace & remain ready to move forward to resolve all outstanding issues through dialogue,” he said in another tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistan-pm-says-onus-on-india-for-progress-after-loc-ceasefire-101614399421694.html
27-02-2021||India||New variants, negligence among reasons for fresh Covid-19 spread, say experts||India has seen a resurgence in the number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases. In the last two days, the country has recorded more than 16,000 new cases and over 100 fatalities.The worst affected states are Maharashtra and Kerala, which account for a bulk of these new cases. But apart from their contribution, there are a number of other factors which are being blamed for the spike in Covid-19 caseload in the country.Here are the big reasons for the spike:Dip in the number of people being tested for Covid-19: According to Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) cited by Hindustan Times' sister publication Livehindustan, 10 lakh samples were being tested everyday in September last year. By February this year, the number was reduced to 7-8 lakh per day, according to Livehindustan. In a 24-hour period (till Friday morning), 8,31,807 samples were tested for Covid-19. Overall, 21,46,61,465 samples have been tested for the infection in the country.Uptick in the rate of positivity: Though the number of samples being tested for Covid-19 has come down, the positivity rate has constantly remained over five per cent, said Livehindustan. Last month, the positivity rate was above six per cent, and has decreased marginally, but is still over 5 per cent. According to World Health Organization (WHO), the positivity rate has to stay below 5 per cent for two weeks to effectively control the pandemic.The effect of new variants of the coronavirus: The health ministry said recently that at least 180 cases of the new variant of Covid-19 found in the United Kingdom have been recorded in India. Apart from that, there are a few suspected cases of Brazil and South African variants too. And, some new variants have also been discovered in the country. According to epidemiologist Shahid Jameel, India has been able to cross the peak of the disease without much damage, but that doesn't mean it is safe from a second wave.Negligence: Experts say that a major reason for the decrease in the spread of the infection is because a big chunk of the population developed anti-bodies against the infection. They point to the results of the sero surveys carried out in the past few months. These fall in numbers led to negligence on part of the general public, which resulted in the spike in Covid-19 case, said experts, like the one witnessed in Maharashtra. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and health authorities in India's worst-affected state have warned people to not take Covid-19 lightly and keep following government guidelines, including wearing of face masks. Thousands of people have been penalised in the state for not wearing masks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-is-covid-19-again-spreading-in-india-here-are-the-big-reasons-101614399383403.html
27-02-2021||India||Covid-19 surge in Maharashtra, Kerala: How each state fared in last 5 days||Maharashtra and Kerala have been at the centre of the recent resurgence of the coronavirus pandemic in India. Last week, the two states, along with Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh and Punjab, were flagged as areas of concern by the Ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW).Click here for full Covid-19 coverageAs of February 26, Maharashtra’s Covid-19 tally of 2,138,154 is the highest in the country, while Kerala is next at 1,052,537, as per figures by the respective state health departments. Here’s a look at how each state has fared in the last five days:Maharashtra: The western state began the week with 5,210 new Covid-19 cases and 18 related deaths on Monday. The number of new infections and deaths rose to 6,218 and 51, respectively, on Tuesday. Over the next three days, Maharashtra recorded more than 8,000 new daily cases, with 8,333 on Friday. Daily deaths from Feb 24-26 were 80, 56 and 48 respectively, taking the state’s death toll to 52,041. Overall, it saw 37,270 cases and 253 deaths between Feb 22-26, which means that on average, there were 7,454 new cases daily and more than 50 related deaths.Also Read | MHA extends existing Covid guidelines till March 31Cases have been on the rise in the state’s capital city of Mumbai as well. As of Feb 26, the metropolis’ infection tally stood at 323,879 while the death toll was at 11,466, with 1,035 new cases and three fatalities on the day. Daily infections remained well below 800 on Feb 22 and 23, before topping 1,000 on each of the next three days. While a lockdown has been ruled out for now, restrictions have been imposed in several parts of Maharashtra. People have also been warned to follow appropriate Covid-19 behaviour, or else, ‘a lockdown would have to be imposed.’Kerala: From Feb 22-26, the southern state recorded 2,212, 4,034, 4,106, 3,677 and 3,671 new daily infections respectively. The related fatalities on these days, meanwhile, were 16, 14, 17, 14 and 14 respectively. There were total 17,700 cases and 75 deaths in Kerala in this period; on average, there were 3,540 new daily cases and 15 deaths per day. Total 4,164 people have succumbed to the viral disease in Kerala thus far and 996,514 have recovered; the corresponding number for Maharashtra being 2,017,303. The Kerala government has also announced free RT-PCR tests for its expatriates returning from abroad.Also Read | These states require a negative RT-PCR test for entryA number of states have made it mandatory for passengers arriving from Maharashtra, Kerala and the three other states to provide a negative RT-PCR test report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-surge-in-maharashtra-kerala-how-each-state-fared-in-last-5-days-101614399215333.html
27-02-2021||India||Covid-19 guidelines extended till March 31, states told to maintain caution||As the ministry of home affairs extended the Covid-19 guidelines till March 31 on Friday in view of the surge in daily cases, home secretary Ajay Bhalla wrote to states and Union territories to exercise caution and ensure strict surveillance.“While there has been a substantial decline in the active and new COVID-19 cases, there is need to maintain surveillance, containment and caution so as to fully overcome the pandemic,” the home ministry said in a statement.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 hereThe ministry has also advised states and Union territories to step up the pace of vaccination of the target population against the viral disease in order to break the chain of transmission.In line with the guidelines, the ministry said, the states need to ensure that containment zones continue to be demarcated carefully and prescribed containment measures are strictly followed within these zones. Covid-19-appropriate behaviour must be promoted and strictly enforced and the Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) prescribed in respect of various permitted activities must be followed scrupulously, the ministry emphasised.The move comes in the backdrop of rising cases in several states, especially Maharashtra and Kerala, that have pushed the country's infection tally past 11.06 million. After witnessing a substantial decline, the share of active cases at 155,986 has again gone up marginally to 1.41%.According to the Union ministry of health and family welfare, 86% of the new cases are being reported from only six states. On Friday, Maharashtra continued to report the highest daily new cases at 8,333, followed by Kerala with 3,671 while Punjab reported 628 new cases.Karnataka with 571 cases, Tamil Nadu with 481, and Gujarat with 460 were next in line.The nation’s total positive cases stand at 11,063,491 while 156,825 people have lost their lives. Though India’s Covid-19 trajectory has been witnessing an upward trend, the recoveries from Covid-19 too have shot up. As many as 10,750,680 people have recovered from the disease which takes the recovery rate to 97.17%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-guidelines-extended-till-march-31-states-told-to-maintain-caution-101614395496084.html
27-02-2021||India||News updates from HT: After Khashoggi report, US slaps sanctions against 76 Saudi individuals and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.US slaps sanctions against 76 Saudi individuals after Khashoggi report implicates crown princeThe United States on Friday released an intelligence report which said that Saudi Arabia's de facto ruler, Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, approved an operation to capture or kill murdered journalist Jamal Khashoggi in 2018. Read morePM Modi to inaugurate toy fair today, govt says bid to make India global hubPrime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate the India Toy Fair 2021 on Saturday. The ceremony will take place digitally, and PM Modi will inaugurate the fair at 11 am via video conferencing. Read more Showed utmost respect to protesting farmers, engaged in dialogue: India at UNHRCThe government has shown the utmost respect for protests by farmers and has remained engaged in dialogue with them to address their concerns pertaining to the farm laws, said India on Friday. Read more Anand Mahindra shares jugaad pic, tweets it ‘doesn’t deserve any applause’While sharing a tweet related to jugaad, Anand Mahindra wrote that it’s something which “doesn’t deserve any applause”. Read more  'Virat Kohli is looking after the groundsmen': Andrew Strauss disagrees with India captain on Ahmedabad pitchAfter Alastair Cook disagreed with India captain Virat Kohli’s assessment of the Ahmedabad pitch for the India vs England day-night Test match, another England captain Andrew Strauss echoed his views. Read more Russo Brothers call Priyanka Chopra ‘incredible star’, say she will be ‘amazing’ in CitadelThe Russo Brothers showered praise on Priyanka Chopra, whom they called an 'incredible star', and said that she will be 'amazing' in the Amazon spy series Citadel. Read more ‘Will visit Singhu border’: Nodeep Kaur granted bail by Punjab, Haryana HC||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-after-khashoggi-report-us-slaps-sanctions-against-76-saudi-individuals-and-all-the-latest-news-101614396012925.html
27-02-2021||India||PM Modi to inaugurate toy fair today, govt says bid to make India global hub||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate the India Toy Fair 2021 on Saturday. The ceremony will take place digitally, and PM Modi will inaugurate the fair at 11 am via video conferencing."At 11 AM tomorrow, 27th February, will inaugurate The India Toy Fair 2021. This Fair will bring together various stakeholders associated with the sector. Through such efforts, we aim to add momentum to the efforts of toy industry to grow further," he said in a tweet on Friday.The government said in a release that the toy fair is being organised in line with the vision of PM Modi, who has emphasised on the role toys play in the holistic development of a child.In his 'Mann Ki Baat' address in August last year, the Prime Minister had emphasised boosting toy manufacturing in India."The fair will be held from 27th February to 2nd March 2021. It aims to bring together all stakeholders including buyers, sellers, students, teachers, designers etc. on a virtual platform to create sustainable linkages and encourage dialogue for the overall development of the industry," the government release said.Over 1,000 exhibitors from all states and union territories will showcase their toys, which can be bought online. All the toys which will be showcased in the fair are made in India.The fair will showcase traditional Indian toys as well as modern toys including electronic toys, plush toys, puzzles and games.Apart from an open market of toys, there will be panel discussions, webinars to strengthen India's toy industry.The government said that through this platform, all the stakeholders will come together to discuss how India can be made the next global hub for manufacturing and sourcing of toys by way of attracting investments in the sector and promoting exports.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-inaugurate-toy-fair-today-govt-says-bid-to-make-india-global-hub-101614390518065.html
27-02-2021||India||Showed utmost respect to protesting farmers, engaged in dialogue: India at UNHRC||The government has shown the utmost respect for protests by farmers and has remained engaged in dialogue with them to address their concerns pertaining to the farm laws, said India on Friday.Speaking at the General Debate on Oral Update of the High Commissioner at the 46th Session of Human Rights Council, Ambassador Indra Mani Pandey, Permanent Representative of India, said that the India has set a goal of doubling the income of farmers by 2024. The purpose of enacting three Farm Acts is to enable farmers to realise better price for their produce and enhance their income."The Government of India has set a goal of doubling the income of farmers by 2024. The purpose of enacting three Farm Acts is to enable farmers to realise better price for their produce and enhance their income. It will particularly benefit small farmers and offer more choices to those farmers who opt for them. The Government has shown utmost respect for protests by farmers and has remained engaged in dialogue with them to address their concerns," Pandey said.The envoy pointed out the constitutional changes in the status of Jammu and Kashmir made by Parliament in August 2019 was a "historic decision" that has been welcomed by the people of India, including people of Jammu and Kashmir."It has given impetus to socio-economic development, end decades of discrimination and combat cross border terrorism, which has been the key hindrance in full enjoyment of human rights by the people. We have restored grassroots democracy, through District Development Council (DDC) elections, and provided good governance through the 'Back to Village' initiative," he added.He stated there has been a significant decline in terrorist attacks and progressive national laws have been extended to Jammu and Kashmir to enable the people there to enjoy the same rights as the people in rest of India.India's response comes as Michelle Bachelet, UN High Commissioner for Human Rights said that charges of sedition against journalists and activists for reporting or commenting on the farmer's protests, and attempts to curb freedom of expression on social media, are "disturbing departures from essential human rights principles."Pandey called the remarks "lacking" in "objectivity and impartiality"."Given these developments, we were perplexed to note some of the comments by the High Commissioner. She appeared as oblivious of the enormous efforts made by my Government to address the challenges, as indeed of many of the factors driving these challenges," the envoy said."The unprovoked violence on our Republic Day in the name of farmers' rights, apparently, left her unmoved. Her indifference to terrorism is, of course, not new. Objectivity and impartiality have to be the hallmarks of any Human Rights assessment. We are sorry to see that the High Commissioner's oral update is lacking in both," he added.Hundreds of thousands of farmers, from the northern Indian states of Punjab and Haryana, have been protesting against the newly enacted three farm laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/showed-utmost-respect-to-protesting-farmers-engaged-in-dialogue-india-at-unhrc-101614390157384.html
27-02-2021||India||Pak went back on its F-16 promise to US. How India fixed the gaps with Rafale||When the French President’s diplomatic advisor Emmanuel Bonne landed in India for a strategic dialogue on January 7, one of the key asks from the Indian Air Force was that the Rafale fighter’s technology, especially its missile capability, be kept away from Pakistan.India conveyed to Bonne that even though Dassault Aviation, manufacturer of Rafale fighter, is selling the omni-role platform Rafale to Qatar, Paris should ensure that no Pakistani-origin person is given access to the plane by Doha.Paris hasn’t just assured India that Rafale technology, specially that related to the Meteor air-to-air missile will be kept out of reach of Pakistan, but also that it will no longer upgrade the Mirage 3/5 fighters or Augusta 90 B submarines in Islamabad’s military inventory. India sought these iron clad guarantees after it burnt its fingers during Pakistani Air Force retaliation on February 27, 2019, a day after the Balakot strike.On that day, Pakistan reneged on its promise to the Americans that it would only use F-16 aircraft in the war against terror and not against India. It was an 75-km range air-to-air AIM-120-C-5 missile, fired from a Pakistani F-16, that brought down Wing Commander Abhinandan’s Mig-21 Bison interceptor on the Line of Control in the Rajouri-Mendhar sector.According to former Air Force Chiefs and Air Marshals, had the Indian Air Force not practised with the premise that Pakistan would use F-16 and beyond visual range missiles against India, more Indian fighters would have been knocked down on that day. “We were very clear that Pakistan would use the F-16 against us and hence we practised to keep IAF fighters beyond what is called dynamic attack zone 1 and 2 or D-Max 1 and 2 of the AIM-120C air to air missile,” said a top IAF official who asked not to be named.D-Max-1 refers to a range where a missile can “secure a kill” provided the opponent doesn’t engage in manoeuvring, and D-Max-2, a no escape zone from the incoming missile even after “all manoeuvring”, added this officer.The Pentagon had previously assured India that Islamabad would not use the F-16 or the missiles against India. It conveyed the message to India after New Delhi requested Washington to put a software lock on the missile so that it cannot be used against India.The Indian concern over the long range missile was raised by Air Marshal AK Gogoi as Director General (Air Operations) with the Chairman of the US Joint Chiefs of Staff Mike Mullen in Washington in September 2010. It was raised again during the visit of Defence Minister Manohar Parrikar in August 2016 with US Defence Secretary Ashton Carter in no uncertain terms. But all this came to no avail two years ago. Not only did Pakistan use the missile (parts of which were recovered) against India on February 27, 2019, but it also glossed over the F-16 that Wing Commander Abhinandan shot down using a Russian R 73 missile.Analysts say that the F-16 incident may have well forced the Indian Air Force to acquire the Meteor missile for Rafale. The no escape zone of this missile is way beyond the missiles carried by US or Chinese aircraft flown by the Pakistani air force.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pak-went-back-on-its-f-16-promise-to-us-how-india-fixed-the-gaps-with-rafale-101614367538883.html
27-02-2021||India||US senator bats for including India in Trans-Pacific Partnership||The US needs to look at India as a potential addition to the Trans-Pacific Partnership, a top American senator has advised the Biden administration.The partnership was a proposed trade agreement between Australia, Brunei, Canada, Chile, Japan, Malaysia, Mexico, New Zealand, Peru, Singapore, Vietnam and the US signed on February 4, 2016. However, former president Donald Trump withdrew the US' signature from the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) in January 2017.In the absence of the US, the rest of the countries negotiated a new trade agreement called the Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership, which incorporates most of the provisions of the TPP, and it came into force on December 30, 2018.The suggestion by Republican Senator John Cornyn came as the Joe Biden administration is looking to rejoin the TPP."I would suggest that we look at India as a potential addition to the TPP. We've grown much closer to India. Of course, they're the world's largest democracy, one that believes in the rule of law as we do, and a great counterweight as well," Cornyn said on Friday.He was speaking during the confirmation hearing of Katherine C Tai for the position of US Trade Representative."We have entered into what's known as the quad when it comes to national security cooperation with India, and I think it would be appropriate to include India in those discussions as well. I guess that's not so much a question as it is a statement," the senator said.In November 2017, India, Japan, the US and Australia gave shape to the long-pending proposal of setting up the "Quad" to develop a new strategy to keep the critical sea routes in the Indo-Pacific free of any influence.Making a reference of China, Cornyn said that the US needs to improve its negotiating position on economic and national security matters by allying with friends."So, I would certainly encourage... and the administration to look at re-entering that (TPP). I thought that was a good idea by the Obama administration. And, I regret that the Trump administration decided only bilateral trade agreements made sense and not multilateral agreements, especially under these unique circumstances," said the Republican Senator from Texas.US Senator from Montana Steve Daines during the hearing raised the issue of high tariffs imposed by India on pulses from the US."Access to India's pulse crop market is very important for our Montana farmers, for Montana jobs, and for our economy. Fortunately, as you know, US pulse crops face high tariffs. A very unfair playing field there with India," he said.Last year, several senators wrote a letter to the then president, Trump, urging him to prioritise the issue."He (Trump) took that letter directly to Prime Minister (Narendra) Modi, in fact. In fact, the president sent me back a picture as he hand-delivered that letter to Prime Minister Modi during a visit," Daines said.He also asked if the US will commit to engage with India on this issue and prioritise the removal of those tariffs and other barriers to trade.Responding to the Montanan senator, Tai said, "I know that our interests with India are manifold. I commit to you to having an awareness of the importance of pulse crops trade.""And if confirmed, I look forward to engaging with the Indians on our trade relationship and will keep the pulse crops in mind,” she said.On the question of TPP, Tai said even in 2021, the basic formula of TPP which was to work with partners and with whom the US has very important shared interests, economically and strategically and with the challenge of China in mind, is still a sound formula.“I think that the formula for TPP, which is for the US to engage robustly with countries and economies with which it has a lot of shared interests, economic interests and also strategic interests, in particular with respect to those interests in Asia and with respect to the challenges coming from China, that is a solid equation, if you will,” Tai said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-senator-bats-for-including-india-in-trans-pacific-partnership-101614386570367.html
27-02-2021||India||Kejriwal arrives in Surat to a hero’s welcome: You people did a miracle, he tells residents||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) chief and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal arrived in Surat to a victor’s welcome on Friday, with hundreds cheering him on as he took out a road show to thank the people of the diamond city for electing his party as the chief opposition party in the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC).In the recently concluded civic body polls, the AAP won 27 of 120 seats in the Surat Municipal Corporation in its debut appearance, thereby emerging the main opposition party against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which won 93 seats. The Congress and other parties could not open their account in the municipality.Amid allegations by some AAP winners that the BJP was trying to make them defect, Kejriwal cautioned his party workers and said, “The BJP will try to poach you by pressure or by luring you. But stay united and inform the party if you receive such a call from the BJP.”Kejriwal, whose party had scored a zero in the state in the 2014 Lok Sabha elections, was visiting Gujarat for the first time in seven years. He had stayed away even during the campaigning for the local body polls, and deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia had managed the party’s campaign.Addressing a massive gathering in Surat on Friday, Kejriwal said, “Aapko Surat ki janta ney vipaksh ka kaam diya hai, unki (ruling BJP) naani yaad dila dena, ek bhi galat kaam mat hone dena (People of Surat have chosen you as the opposition party, don’t allow any corruption in the civic body).”“All of Gujarat should know that we have arrived and won’t brook any illegal activities. People of Gujarat should know that a different politics is happening in Surat,” he said.Kejriwal said the entire country was discussing the AAP’s entry into Gujarat, especially in Surat. “Logon ne kamaal kar diya (You people did a miracle),” an elated AAP chief said, as hundreds cheered him.Although his party won only 27 seats, Kejriwal’s roadshow in Surat was like a veritable victory procession. For AAP, as he himself said, opening an electoral account in Gujarat, a BJP stronghold, was in itself an achievement.Kejriwal had a word of caution for his party workers to remain grounded and not get complacent.Reacting to Kejriwal’s assertions, Gujarat BJP’s chief spokesperson Yamal Vyas said, “The AAP had fielded more than 450 candidates and some 300 of them lost their deposits. They got some seats, so what. We don’t have much to say, let them celebrate.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-surat-delhi-cm-kejriwal-hails-aap-s-poll-performance-101614379478480.html
27-02-2021||India||23 Cong letter writers plan drive to ‘save idea of India’||The group of 23 Congress leaders who demanded an overhaul in the 135-year-old party are launching a nationwide campaign to “save the idea of India’’. The series of rallies and public meetings will kick off on Saturday in Jammu, where former Rajya Sabha member of Parliament Ghulam Nabi Azad, one of the 23, has invited his colleagues. According to two people aware of the details, Anand Sharma, Manish Tiwari, Bhupinder Hooda, Vivek Tankha and Kapil Sibal, also among the 23, will join him in Jammu.“He asked us to be there and so we will all go in a show of solidarity,’’ said one of the 23. The plan is to have two public meetings on Saturday, and another on Sunday. “We are going to have this across the country. After Jammu, we have planned in Ludhiana and Kurukshetra,’’ this person added.It wasn’t immediately clear whether the Congress and its local units would be involved in these meetings.Last August, the 23 leaders wrote a letter to Congress President Sonia Gandhi in which they called for “full-time and effective leadership”, elections to the Congress Working Committee (CWC), and a mechanism guide the party’s revival. The issues were discussed, but no resolution found, at a fractious Jan 22 meeting of the Congress Working Committee. Subsequent party appointments have seen younger leaders who want Rahul Gandhi back as the party president being given precedence in organisational appointments over some of the signatories.The ostensible trigger for the public meetings is to honour Azad, a Congress veteran who retired from Parliament after four decades, but it would also appear to be a platform for them to discuss the road ahead. The internal party poll for president has been postponed to after the assembly elections.“It (the meeting) is part of a larger effort to galvanise all patriotic nationalistic forces to come together and save the idea of India,’’ said the first person. He confirmed that they would also campaign in the upcoming elections, but for the party.“Our messaging will be to defeat the Bharatiya Janata Party, to save India from becoming a majoritarian nation.”A second signatory said the meetings are also a message to the Congress high command. “We want to tell the party leadership that we are united, we have an issue and they must do something about it,’’ he added on condition of anonymity.On Friday, Azad arrived in Jammu on a three-day visit and was received by party workers. The Congress will contest the coming assembly elections in four states and a Union territory with its full might, he said in a single-line response to a swarm of media persons outside the party office, to which he was taken after landing, and where he was received by JKPCC president GA Mir, former minister Mula Ram, and other senior leaders.A Congress leader told HT that it wasn’t an event just for the letter writers. “Our state unit wants to felicitate Mr Azad and an invitation went out to all Congress leaders and so many are attending,’’ he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/23-cong-letter-writers-plan-drive-to-save-idea-of-india-101614374624491.html
27-02-2021||India||India rejects United Nations panel report on Christian Michel||India on Friday rejected the reported findings of UN experts that Christian Michel, the alleged middleman in the AgustaWestland VVIP helicopter deal, was being arbitrarily detained and described their conclusions as biased and contrary to facts.The United Nations Working Group on Arbitrary Detention (WGAD), which operates under the UN high commissioner for human rights, said that Michel, who has been held in India since December 2018 after being extradited from United Arab Emirates, should be immediately released, according to conclusions reported by AFP. WGAD’s report is yet to be released.External affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said there were selective leaks of the opinion of WGAD on Michel’s case. “We regret that the conclusions drawn by the Working Group are based on limited information, biased allegations from an unidentified source and on an inaccurate understanding of India’s criminal justice system,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-rejects-united-nations-panel-report-on-christian-michel-101614374660634.html
27-02-2021||India||Can’t ignore complaints of sexual harassment: Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Friday said it “cannot allow sexual harassment complaints to be brushed under the carpet” and directed a retired district judge of Madhya Pradesh to face disciplinary enquiry initiated against him by the high court on the allegations by a female judicial officer.In her complaint in March 2018, the female judicial officer had accused the former principal district judge of Sheopur of sending lewd messages on WhatsApp. On April 2019, the Gender Sensitization Internal Complaint Committee (GSICC) recommended disciplinary proceedings against the judge even as it did not find any substance in the complaint.“We cannot allow sexual harassment complaints to be brushed under the carpet this way,” a three-judge bench headed by Chief Justice of India S A Bobde said. “You are walking on very thin ice....During the (disciplinary) inquiry; you may have a chance to be acquitted,” the bench told senior advocate R Balasubramanian who appeared for the judge.It also asked the petitioner to join the enquiry. The counsel for the former judge then withdrew the appeal against the high court’s order. The complainant had also moved an application for conciliation and to end the enquiry. The application was rejected by GSICC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cant-ignore-complaints-of-sexual-harassment-supreme-court-101614374377904.html
27-02-2021||India||Harming reputation ground for divorce, says Supreme Court||A divorce can be granted when the reputation of the spouse is sullied amongst his colleagues, his superiors and the society at large, ruled the Supreme Court on Friday, as it allowed the petition of an army officer whose wife wrote several complaints against him to his superiors and to women’s rights bodies.An SC bench, headed by justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul, held that such demeanour by a wife will certainly amount to inflicting cruelty on the man, and will be grounds for divorce under marital laws.“When the reputation of the spouse is sullied amongst his colleagues, his superiors and the society at large, it would be difficult to expect condonation of such conduct by the affected party... In circumstances like this, the wronged party cannot be expected to continue with the matrimonial relationship and there is enough justification for him to seek separation,” said the bench, which also included justices Dinesh Maheshwari and Hrishikesh Roy.The bench emphasised that when the career and reputation of a spouse were severely damaged because of the conduct of the other partner, it could not be expected of the former to reconcile and agree to live together again.Authoring the judgment, justice Roy underlined that mental cruelty, as a ground for divorce, had to be understood keeping in mind the background, the level of education and the status of the couple in order to determine whether the conduct in question was such that it would justify dissolution of a marriage.“The degree of tolerance will vary from one couple to another... no uniform standard can be laid down and each case will have to be decided on its own facts,” said the bench, holding an army officer could not be ordered to put up with a spouse who dented his career and reputation.The bench also accepted the submissions by senior advocate Gopal Sankaranarayanan, who represented the army officer, that his client, who was made to stand a commission of inquiry over charges of adultery on the complaint of his wife, could not be now directed by a court to live with her under the same roof.In this case, the man and the woman got married in September 2007 in Dehradun but they were soon separated after the wife left the matrimonial home and went to live with her parents after a few months.A spate of litigation followed. The wife filed cases for maintenance, and FIRs under charges of cheating, dowry demands and breach of trust. The husband, on the other hand, sought divorce on the ground of cruelty and desertion.The husband also got a decree of divorce from a court in Visakhapatnam, where his parents were settled, in February 2009. But this plea was later withdrawn by the man on a petition by the wife in the Supreme Court in 2011. The top court asked the man to file a fresh petition of divorce at a court in Dehradun where the wife lived.Both the husband and the wife then went to a Dehradun court where the man pressed for divorce while the woman asked for restitution of conjugal rights and a direction to her husband to start living with her again. The family court ruled in favour of the man and gave divorce. However, when the woman filed an appeal against this order, the Uttarakhand high court set aside the decree of divorce.The SC found it to be a fit case of granting divorce, saying the “high court was in error in describing the broken relationship as normal wear and tear of middle class married life.” It took note of the complaints written by the wife to her husband’s superiors and also to the state women commission because of which his “career and reputation had suffered”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/harming-reputation-ground-for-divorce-says-supreme-court-101614374231891.html
27-02-2021||India||India out of recession as GDP expands 0.4% in Q3||The Indian economy came out of contraction zone in the second half of the current fiscal year as lockdown restrictions were eased significantly, economic activities resumed, and the government increased its capital expenditure.India’s gross domestic product (GDP) grew at 0.4% on a year-on-year basis in the quarter ending December 2020, according to data released by the National Statistical Office (NSO) on February 26. A Reuters poll of economists had projected this number to be 0.5%. The economy suffered an annual contraction of 24.4% and 7.3% in the quarters ending June 2020 and September 2020, as per revised data released on Friday. This was largely a result of the lockdown’s disruption to economic activity. India imposed a 68-day-long lockdown — it was among the most stringent in the world — beginning March 25.To be sure, the Indian economy will still face its largest ever contraction in the current fiscal year. According to the second advanced estimates of GDP in 2020-21, released along with the December quarter numbers, GDP is expected to contract by 8% in 2020-21.High frequency indicators such as the Nomura India Business Resumption Index (NIBRI) suggest that the economy is already back to pre-pandemic levels. NIBRI touched 99.3 – 100 is the pre-pandemic base — in the week ending February 21. Even though Covid-19 cases are rising again in some states, as of now, India seems to have escaped a second wave of infections. Expediting the vaccination programme, which is what the government seems to have done by opening up vaccines for people above 60 years of age and those aged 45 or above with co-morbidities, could help contain the pandemic in the days to come.While the latest GDP numbers are in line with the narrative of strong sequential recovery in the economy, questions remain on the nature of ongoing recovery, and its ability to sustain after returning to pre-pandemic levels. Private Final Consumption Expenditure (PFCE), which accounts for more than 50% of the GDP, was still in contraction zone (2.4%) in the December quarter, even as corporate profits continue to soar. This is in keeping with fears of the current recovery not being broad based. The index of eight core sector industries grew at just 0.1% in January. Experts point out that this is a reflection of tepid growth in green-field activities.One positive surprise in the December quarter numbers is a 2.6% growth in investment, as measured by gross fixed capital formation. That this has happened despite private consumption being in contraction zone and consumer sentiment, according to the Reserve Bank of India’s Consumer Confidence Indices, continuing to be weak, could be a result of aggressive capital expenditure (capex) by the central government. Data from Controller General of Accounts, which works under the ministry of finance, shows that the central government spent ₹1.33 lakh crore in capex in the December quarter, which is 80% of what it had spent in the first two quarters of the fiscal year. The January 2021 capex number shows a minor decline compared to December, which suggests that the fourth quarter could see some moderation in the capex push. To be sure, Government Final Consumption Expenditure (GFCE), which accounts for around 10% of GDP, also shows a contraction (1.1%) in the December quarter, which suggests that the capex push might be accompanied with rationalisation of government spending in other areas.A sector-wise analysis of the Gross Value Added (GVA) numbers shows that services are the only broad activity-group which continues to be in contraction zone in the December quarter. Among the two most employment intensive sectors after agriculture, construction has shown a GVA growth of 6.2% while trade, hotel, transport, storage and communication contracted by 7.7%. Agriculture, in keeping with predictions of a record kharif harvest, is expected to grow at 3.9% on an annual basis. Manufacturing grew at 1.7%, although this could be due to a favourable base effect, as the sector contracted by 2.9% in December 2019.Madan Sabnavis, chief economist at CARE Ratings, called for caution in placing too much optimism in the GVA numbers for construction, given the fact that core sector index for cement production has been contracting for three months since November 2020. “Core sector industries presented a flat growth rate of just 0.1% after 0.2% in December. This anaemic growth is a concern as it has a weight of nearly 40% in the IIP (index of industrial production, a measure of factory output) and reflects physical production that has now declined by 8.8% for the year. Therefore, while the monetary value-added number has been positive, the same does not hold here,” he said. “Cement has now de-grown for three months which is disappointing as this reflects developments in the construction sector which was expected to pick up. Quite clearly the mood in the real estate sector has not recovered as the focus is on disposing-off inventory rather than going in for new projects,” Sabnavis added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-out-of-recession-as-gdp-expands-0-4-in-q3-101614373888524.html
27-02-2021||India||‘Peace on LAC must to mend ties’: Jaishankar tells Chinese counterpart||External affairs minister S Jaishankar has told his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi that bilateral ties can only be repaired by maintaining peace and tranquillity in border areas and completing the disengagement of frontline troops at all friction points on the Line of Actual Control (LAC).Jaishankar’s blunt message was conveyed to Wang during a 75-minute phone conversation on Thursday — the first formal contact between the two ministers since they met on the margins of a Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) meeting in Moscow last September.The continuing differences between the two sides were evident in the Chinese foreign ministry’s readout of the conversation, which quoted Wang as saying that the boundary dispute is “an objective fact” but it wasn’t the “whole of China-India relations” and should be put in a “proper place in the overall bilateral relations”. This was perceived as the Chinese side’s keenness to take forward ties in other areas such as trade while setting aside the standoff.The two ministers also agreed to establish a hotline to facilitate timely communications and exchange of views.The conversation came days after India and China pulled back frontline troops from strategic heights around Pangong Lake along with armoured vehicles and artillery last week, and Jaishankar said it is necessary for the two sides to “quickly resolve the remaining issues along the LAC in eastern Ladakh”.“It was necessary to disengage at all friction points in order to contemplate de-escalation of forces in this [Ladakh] sector. That alone will lead to the restoration of peace and tranquillity and provide conditions for progress of our bilateral relationship,” Jaishankar was quoted as saying in a statement issued by the external affairs ministry.He added that once disengagement is completed at all friction points, the two sides “could look at broader de-escalation of troops in the area”. Jaishankar noted that both countries had always agreed that maintaining peace and tranquillity in the border areas was “essential basis for development of bilateral relations”, and a “prolongation of the existing situation was not in the interest of either side”.A senior South Block official, who didn’t want to be named said: “Normalcy and a border dispute cannot run in parallel as Beijing wants. China has not told India why it attempted to change the status quo at Pangong Tso in May 2020 and why it withdrew 10 months later.”Jaishankar, the official added, presented his diagnosis of the hurdles to resumption of normal bilateral ties to Wang, and the steps needed to turn back the clock.Indian and Chinese military commanders held the 10th round of talks on February 20, which lasted a marathon 16 hours, to discuss disengagement at other friction points such as Depsang, Hot Springs and Gogra. However, there hasn’t been any announcement on extending disengagement to other sectors.The Indian statement said Jaishankar reminded Wang of their conversation in Moscow last September, when the Indian side expressed concern over “provocative behaviour and unilateral attempts of the Chinese side to alter status quo”. Jaishankar noted bilateral ties have been “impacted severely”, and the boundary question may take time to resolve but “disturbance of peace and tranquillity including by violence, will inevitably have a damaging impact on the relationship”.He added the two sides also decided in Moscow that border troops should quickly disengage and ease tensions.According to the Chinese readout, Wang described boundary disputes as an “objective fact” that should be taken seriously, but he said this isn’t “the whole of China-India relations, and it should be put at a proper place in the overall bilateral relations”.China and India, Wang said, should “work together for shared progress rather than erecting walls against each other”, and suggested the two sides can “begin from easier things and proceed incrementally so as to build enabling conditions for a better relationship and greater practical cooperation”.Wang also said the two sides should commit to the consensus reached by their leaders and “handle the boundary question properly to prevent the bilateral relationship from sinking into a negative cycle”.The Chinese readout was silent on addressing the other friction points, and Wang only said the ground situation had noticeably eased after disengagement at Pangong Lake. “It is imperative for the two sides to cherish the hard-won relaxation, and work together to consolidate the progress, keep up the consultation momentum, further ease the situation, and improve the border management and control mechanisms,” Wang said.Wang also sought to again blame India for the standoff at the LAC. He said: “There has been some wavering and back-pedalling in India’s China policy, and practical cooperation between the two countries has been affected.”The Indian statement said Wang noted the Indian side’s proposal of “three mutuals” — mutual respect, mutual sensitivity and mutual interests — as the approach to the relationship, and that he agreed on the “importance of taking the long view of our ties”.Sameer Patil, fellow for international security studies at Gateway House, said the disengagement at Pangong Lake has created hope for giving momentum to de-escalation at other friction points. “The Indian side wants to strike while the iron is hot and get the disengagement at other places. We need to keep the focus on this issue, and that’s reflected in the external affairs minister’s remarks. India can’t allow any diversions or give any leeway to the other side,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/peace-on-lac-must-to-mend-ties-jaishankar-tells-chinese-counterpart-101614373586833.html
27-02-2021||India||Business of liquor needs a major detox||Liquor sales and excise duty form one of the most important streams of income for the Delhi government but labyrinthine rules, underperforming government shops, brand suppression, malpractice in registration, and an opaque cabal of operators controlling the business in the city are forcing the administration to haemorrhage revenue, experts say.In 2019-20, the city government pegged its revenue from the liquor business at ₹5,500 crore -- roughly 11% of its total revenue of ₹51,000 crore. Among major states, an HT analysis showed only in Karnataka and Telangana, liquor revenue formed a bigger percentage of the state’s revenue.This is crucial because unlike major states, Delhi sits on a smaller revenue base. The problem, experts said, is made worse by the city’s high legal drinking age and several dry days.An expert committee formed last year calculated that the liquor revenue can rise to ₹7,651 crore just by plugging some of the obvious loopholes and cracking down on the liquor mafia. Some government officials say that it can even be doubled or trebled if the system is cleaned up and progressive rules are put in place.“If you look at it in a collective way, it is huge…in most cases, number of transactions are high and it gets difficult to prove such cases even though we can smell something fishy. So, we are now trying to address the root of the problem,” said a senior excise department official.According to experts, the liquor business in Delhi is shrouded in opacity and controlled by a handful of individuals or groups. They steer the wholesale procurement of brands, dictate terms and commissions to major brands for getting stocked in shops, some of them duplicate bar codes and game the registration process to push off-the-book manufacturers, and even facilitate the illegal transport of liquor from neighbouring states into the city and ensure that a majority of retailers only sell brands approved by them. HT has raised several of these points in the first four parts of this series.Officials say the large-scale corruption and irregularity starts at the procurement level, and thrives in a murky system where customers get 10 seconds in front of a window grille before being shoved aside, pilferage is unchecked and oversight lax, and no one has a clear handle on stocks, procurement or revenue figures.The fallout of is multifold: Dissatisfied customers who have to jostle to grab whatever bottle the retailer is pushing, annoyed buyers not being able to buy their brand of choice because the shopkeeper is being paid a commission to suppress it. It results not only in poor customer experience but also in loss of revenue to the state.“The reforms are needed as a mitigation measure to such cartelisation, and hence, the committee has proposed a lottery system for retail vends and also suggested fixing targets on VAT per vend which would have to be achieved annually,” a government official said on condition of anonymity.The government believes its new proposed excise policy can help cover the lacunae, and has identified five pain points that are symptoms of a larger malaise.One, the problem of duplicating mandatory bar codes – crucial to tracking revenue and checking leakage -- attached to each bottle of liquor sold in Delhi. The city government doesn’t have a role in liquor wholesale, which is managed by 77 private vendors. Officials say there is a big racket in the “liquor mafia” of slapping duplicated bar codes on non-duty paid liquor (NDPL), from which the government receives no revenue.This also means that the government has very little control over other malpractices such as brand pushing and brand suppression, because duplicate bar codes make tracing off-the-books brands almost impossible. This is a violation of Section 33 of the Delhi Excise Act and punishable with a jail term of up to three years and a penalty of up to ₹1 lakh.“Although it is tough to attribute a percentage to the menace in terms of revenue loss, the practice of sticking duplicate barcodes on liquor bottles is quite frequent. Last year, we registered an FIR against a private liquor shop in Pitampura after our enforcement team found duplicate barcodes pasted 12 cases of whisky bottles. In 2019, we banned the world’s largest brewer from selling its products in Delhi for three years as we found that barcodes were being duplicated by its acquired company and supplied to the retail outlets to evade payment of excise duty,” said a second excise official.Two, license fees on retail liquor vends are low and the slabs unevenly spread. Setting up a retail liquor shop currently costs anywhere between ₹4 lakh to ₹8 lakh depending on the category of license applied for.A 40-seat resto bar located in an upmarket commercial space such as Connaught Place pays the same license fee as one located in Dilshad Garden or Seelampur. The license fee is calculated based on seating, and the rates differ on whether an establishment has 48 covers or 96 covers, and so on.The expert committee suggested this policy be discontinued, and license rates be hiked to ₹75 lakh per licensee for private vends.But Prakul Kumar, secretary general of the national restaurants association of India (NRAI), disagreed, underlining that establishments in areas such as Khan Market and Connaught Place paid much higher rent. “The government should ensure that the revised license fee does not add to their burden, especially at a time when the industry is recovering after the Covid-19 pandemic.”Three, the existing regime for brand registration is not revenue accretive because a brand with sales volume of a few thousand bottles or less pays the same fees as paid by a brand with a sales volume of one million cases a year. In addition, the current rules facilitate the registration of cheap brands of whisky and rum with cost up to ₹140 with a minimum-sale criteria. The government’s revenues from these brands are the lowest and these makes are often pushed at the cost of more premium variants, say officials.To resolve this, the expert committee recommended the reduction of brand registration fee across all categories, and the abolishing rum and whisky brands below ₹140 so that quality products are made available. It has also recommended to set a sales volume criteria to give an opportunity to niche players to enter the market with quality products.Another problem is the capping in profit margin of Indian Made Foreign Liquor and Foreign Liquor to ₹50 and ₹100 respectively, which has remained unchanged for six years. This discourages retailers to place purchase orders for premium brands due to the ceiling on the margins. The lopsided license registration system – which places 80% of IMFL in one slab – has also been overhauled .Four, the low numbers and uneven distribution of liquor stores. Delhi has one of the lowest densities of liquor stores with respect to population, and this encourages bootlegging and illicit trade from other states. Out of the 272 municipal wards in the city, 70 have no liquor shops. No new license allotment for opening liquor shops has happened since 2016.Delhi has 720 liquor shops – of which 460 are run by government agencies and 260 by private individuals and agencies . The expert committee plans to change this by increasing the number of shops to 916, with more equitable distribution across municipal wards.However, Bhoob Singh, a member of the Delhi Alcobev Retailers Association, a group of 107 retailers in the city, said: “The government should allot new licenses for underserved and unserved areas but they should not bring existing license holders under its equitable distribution plan.”Another problem is “mixing”, where some bars switch out premium, registered brands with local, unregistered makes without the knowledge of the consumer. It not only vexes buyers but also hurts revenue because governments earn far more per bottle from premium brands as excise duty, the officials added.“It has happened with me so many times. But there are no means to check,” said advertisement executive Ankit Sharma.A senior excise department official said the administration receives many such complaints every year, singling out a 2017 incident when the department raided a popular restobar and found irregularities between orders recorded for some expensive brands and their actual stock. “We suspended the bar’s license for that year,” said the official.Kumar said any instances of mixing should not happen at all.Five, the presence of government in the liquor retail business is a high investment, low returns model. Experts say government shops make up the bulk of the retailers but are poorly managed, grimy and often don’t stock premium brands that earn the government more revenue. A government document showed that for six premium brands of liquor, the revenue generated by private vends outstripped that by government shops three to one.“The revenue contribution by the government vends is almost equal to the private shops in spite of Delhi having 40% more government vends. The average contribution per vend of government corporation in terms of excise duty is ₹5 crore annual in comparison to ₹8 crore per private vend. Further, corporation or government vends fall short in providing a congenial consumer experience in terms of choice and brand availability,” a third excise official said.Moreover, the chain of government ownership is complex and involves four agencies: Delhi Tourism and Transportation Development Corporation (DTTDC), Delhi State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation (DSIIDC), Delhi State Civil Supplies Corporation Ltd (DSCSC) and Delhi Consumer’s Cooperative Wholesale Store Ltd. (DCCWS).“It would make sense for the government to reduce its presence the retail sector, or even exit altogether. The government shops are anyway not contributing to improving customer experience or revenues,” said Vivek Makhija, a Delhi-based businessman.“Government moving out of retail would mean more private shops and that would contribute to improving buyers’ experience, if the government exits in a phased manner. Their exit at one go can give disproportionate power to private license holders and they may start taking calls on what brands to boycott or endorse,” said Vinod Giri, director-general of the Confederation of Indian Alcoholic Beverage Companies.Experts agree that it is the right direction to move in.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/business-of-liquor-needs-a-major-detox-101614373058658.html
27-02-2021||India||Sops galore hours before poll schedule out||Divya Chandrababu and Joydeep GuptaHours before the Election Commission announced poll dates on Friday, sops ranging from reservation in jobs and admissions to wage hike to reduction in fuel prices were announced by functionaries of the election-bound states.Most number of sops came from Tamil Nadu chief minister E Palaniswami, who is trying to beat 10 years of incumbency. The state assembly unanimously passed a bill providing 10.5% reservation for influential Vanniyar community within the existing quota of 20% for the Most Backward Classes (MBC). The move will not increase the overall 69.5% reservation in government jobs and admissions in higher education in the state.With the announcement, the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK)-led government met the longstanding demand of its ally, the Pattali Makkal Katchi (PMK). Soon after, a video started making rounds, showing a teary eyed former Union minister Anbumani Ramadoss sharing the news with his father and PMK founder. He could be heard in the video saying that the first step towards their “40-year struggle” has been met.Earlier in the state assembly, Palaniswami announced waiving gold loans up to six sovereigns taken from cooperative banks by the poor and farmers. An AIADMK member said it would mean waiving loans worth ₹11,306.11 crore outstanding in the state as of 31st May 2020 in the category of under-five sovereigns. Earlier, Palaniswami had waived ₹12,110-crore loans taken by 16,43 lakh farmers from cooperative banks. Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) president MK Stalin had in January promised to waive farm loans if his party was elected to power. Stalin on Friday called the move a “selfish election stunt”.In West Bengal, chief minister Mamata Banerjee announced an increase in daily wages of labourers working under the state’s Urban Employment Scheme. “I am pleased to announce a hike in the wages of daily wage workers under WB Urban Employment Scheme,” she tweeted.She said unskilled workers would get a daily wage of ₹202 per day, up from ₹144, while the same for semi-skilled labourers was raised to ₹303 from ₹172.Under the job scheme, the government introduced a new category for skilled workers, who will get a daily wage of ₹404, Banerjee said. These wages are in parity with rural workers’ enhanced pay (MNREGA unskilled & semi-skilled). The BJP, however, shot back saying that last minute sops won’t be able to save the Trinamool Congress (TMC).“We are happy that she announced it. At least the poor people would get some benefit. But this won’t be able to save the TMC. The people of Bengal have seen the true face of the TMC in the last 10 years. The TMC government has failed to provide DA to the government employees,” said Samik Bhattacharya, BJP spokesperson in the state.In Puducherry, Lieutenant Governor Tamilsai Soundararajan announced reduction of Value Added Tax on fuel by 2% providing marginal relief to people. According to a statement by Raj Niwas, it would bring down the fuel prices by ₹1.2 per litre.In Assam, chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal on Friday appointed international athlete Hima Das to the rank of Deputy Superintendent of Police. Das has been appointed under the Integrated Sports Policy of the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sops-galore-hours-before-poll-schedule-out-101614371783867.html
27-02-2021||India||Crucial election cycle in 5 states to start on March 27||Around 187 million people across five states in southern and eastern India will vote in 824 assembly seats for a month starting March 27, the election commission announced on Friday, kicking off the most crucial poll season since the general elections two years ago.Votes in Assam, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Puducherry will be counted on May 2, said chief election commissioner Sunil Arora. All Covid-19 election guidelines, including limiting the number of electors, regulating physical campaigning and road shows and sanitising booths and personnel, will be in place, he added.The commission has set up 270,000 polling stations for what will be the largest electoral exercise in the country since the coronavirus pandemic struck early last year.West Bengal, where a surging Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is looking to unseat the ruling Trinamool Congress, will vote in the highest number of phases: eight. The 294 assembly seats in the eastern state will go to the polls between March 27 and April 29.Polling for 234 seats in Tamil Nadu, 140 seats in Kerala and 30 seats in Puducherry will take place on April 6. Assam, with 126 assembly seats, will vote in three phases: March 27, April 1 and 6. Bypolls to Kanyakumari and Malappuram Lok Sabha seats will be also conducted on April 6.Tamil Nadu will witness traditional rivals Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) and All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) square off in the first state election without political stalwarts M Karunanidhi and J Jayalalithaa. Kerala will see the Left parties fight a Congress-led alliance to hold on to their last bastion and Puducherry will head to the polls under President’s Rule after its government fell four days ago. Assam will see a three-cornered fight between BJP, Congress and regional parties.“Last year, the entire world, when confronted with Covid-19, was figuring out how to balance the rights of citizens while protecting the health and safety of citizens,” said Arora, who demits office on April 13. “The commission used the Rajya Sabha elections and Bihar elections last year as a litmus to see how to conduct large-scale polls.”Arora said the nationwide vaccination drive made the situation more conducive to conduct elections. He said door-to-door campaigning will be restricted to five persons, including the candidate, while road shows will be allowed with a maximum of five vehicles. The number of electors per booth will also be limited to 1,000.The announcement of the month-long poll schedule in West Bengal stoked a controversy with CM Mamata Banerjee alleging the dates were suited to the BJP. “With all due respect to the Election Commission, I want to say questions are being raised on why elections will be held in so many phases in Bengal while other states will be voting in one phase,” she asked.But the EC dismissed the charges.”The elections to West Bengal (assembly) in 2016 were in seven phases. The Lok Sabha was in seven phases. So, 7 to 8 (phases) is not such a big deal because we have to see movement of forces, we also have to see the current charges and counter-charges,” said Arora.Bengal is expected to witness a pitched battle between the TMC, which is looking for a third straight term on the back of Banerjee’s mass popularity, and the BJP, which has rapidly expanded its presence and is hoping to form the government in the state for the first time.For decades, the BJP was a fringe player in Bengal but surged to 40% vote share in the 2019 general election and ended up with 18 seats, just behind the TMC’s tally of 22. The party is banking on PM Narendra Modi’s appeal, corruption charges against grassroots TMC leaders and Hindu mobilisation to carry it past the majority mark of 147.The BJP is also hoping to gain the support of refugee Dalit communities by promising them citizenship through the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA), which seeks to fast-track grant of Indian citizenship to persecuted Hindu, Buddhist, Sikhs, Jain, Parsi and Christian minorities from Muslim-majority Bangladesh, Afghanistan, and Pakistan.In Tamil Nadu, the DMK and the AIADMK have traditionally swapped power, but Jayalalithaa made history when she returned to power in 2016. This is the first state election without the two stalwarts and parties are jockeying to claim their legacy.Observers will be watching AIADMK for signs of internal dissent after the emergence of former general secretary VK Sasikala from prison last month. The DMK alliance is led by Karunanidhi’s son MK Stalin, who is aiming to become the chief minister for the first time.In Kerala — another state where traditional rivals Left Democratic Front and United Democratic Front have alternated in power — the ruling LDF is fighting to keep the Left parties relevant in national politics. If the Congress-led UDF wins, the Left won’t be in power in any state. The BJP is also looking to make a mark, especially in the urban pockets of state capital Thiruvananthapuram.Assam is set to see a triangular contest between the ruling BJP coalition, a Congress-led alliance and a clutch of regional outfits born out of the fierce protests against the CAA. The 2019 election was held in the shadow of the National Register of Citizens (NRC), which left out 1.9 million people, and the impending CAA, which indigenous groups fear may trigger an influx of illegal immigrants.But since early 2020, implementation of CAA has been slow, and the rules not drafted. The NRC, too, has proceeded at a glacial pace. The BJP is hoping to retain power due to its social schemes while the Opposition is hoping to benefit from anti-CAA sentiment.Puducherry is heading to the polls in political turmoil and under President’s Rule. Its Congress-led government collapsed four days ago after failing to prove a majority due to a spate of resignations from its lawmakers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/crucial-election-cycle-in-5-states-to-start-on-march-27-101614369979732.html
27-02-2021||India||IAF adds muscle to firepower in 2 yrs since Balakot||The Indian Air Force (IAF) has strengthened its offensive capabilities significantly since the effective bombing of Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) targets in Pakistan’s Balakot exactly two years ago, and the months-long border standoff with China saw IAF flex its muscle in the Ladakh theatre where it deployed cutting-edge weaponry that was inducted after the unprecedented cross-border strike on February 26, 2019.IAF’s Mirage-2000s struck targets in Balakot in response to the Pakistan-backed Pulwama suicide attack in Kashmir in which 40 CRPF troopers were killed on February 14.Frontline platforms, inducted over the last two years, form a critical part of IAF’s force projection in eastern Ladakh, and have demonstrated its capability to carry out day-and-night, all-weather combat missions in the sensitive theatre, said people familiar with the developments.The platforms inducted after the Balakot raid include Rafale fighter jets, missiles, smart air-to-ground weapons, AH-64E Apache attack helicopters, and CH-47F (I) Chinook multi-mission helicopters. To be sure, these acquisitions were planned years before the Balakot strikes, but were inducted during the last two years.Referring to some of the new acquisitions, experts said IAF’s fighter, helicopter and transport fleets played a crucial during the Ladakh standoff that began last May. A disengagement process underway in the sector has raised hopes for the resolution of the border row, but de-escalation of the conflict is still a long way off.IAF’s fighter fleet, reinforced with new Rafale jets, and the Apache attack helicopters sent a strong message to the Chinese, while Indian transport aircraft played a crucial role in the swift mobilisation of troops and equipment to forward areas, said Air Vice Marshal Manmohan Bahadur (retd), additional director general, Centre for Air Power Studies.He made a special mention of the capability brought to the table by the Rafale jets armed with ultra-modern armament such as Meteor beyond-visual-range missiles and Hammer air-to-ground munition — capabilities that were not available during Balakot.The need for Rafale jets with their superior weapons was felt during the dogfight with the Pakistan Air Force on February 27, a day after the Balakot raid.A professional force learns from every engagement, and the Balakot strike was no different, said Bahadur. “While ‘Balakot’ was only a strike mission, the long-drawn-out face-off with China brought to fore the massive airlift capability of IAF. The investment of planners more than a decade back proved its worth as the Indian Army inducted almost three divisions into Ladakh, along with heavy armour, using the transport fleet of IAF,” said Bahadur.The air force’s C-17 Globemaster III transport aircraft were used to move soldiers, tanks and infantry combat vehicles to the Ladakh sector, while C-130J Super Hercules aircraft undertook sorties to the advanced landing ground in the strategic Daulat Beg Oldie sector to support the military’s deployments.The deployment of the Apache attack helicopters made it clear that Chinese mechanised formations would face a formidable foe, he said. Armed with fire-and-forget Hellfire missiles, an Apache can track up to 128 targets a minute and prioritise threats. The missiles equip the gunships with anti-armour capabilities.The induction of the Chinook multi-mission helicopters enhanced the IAF’s capabilities to transport troops and artillery to forward areas.“Some capability gaps still remain, especially of combat enablers like AWACS (airborne warning and control systems) and flight refuelling aircraft — deficiencies that the government must look into urgently,” Bahadur added.If the Balakot air strikes showed there was scope to use fighter jets for taking out targets in Pakistan below the threshold of conventional war, India’s firm actions in Ladakh have made it clear to the Chinese that the salami-slicing tactics in their playbook will not work against India, the people cited above said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iafadds-muscle-to-firepower-in-2-yrs-since-balakot-101614367865061.html
27-02-2021||India||‘Did not break any law’: Nodeep Kaur after HC grants bail||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Friday granted bail to labour rights activist Nodeep Kaur in an attempt to murder case while taking note of a medical examination report, which listed two simple injuries on her caused by a “blunt object”.Kaur was released from Karnal jail on Friday evening. Addressing mediapersons, Kaur said, “I did not break any law and cannot think of doing so in future. But I raise voice against exploitation of labourers and farmers by the big corporate houses. Such influential people cannot tolerate this and try to suppress their voice.”The activist was arrested on January 12 after she had participated in the farmer’s protests at Kundli in Haryana.The high court bench of justice Avneesh Jhingan, “It would be appropriate to say that the right to peaceful protest is circumscribed by a thin line. The crossing of line may change the colour of protest. It would be subject matter of trial as to whether the line for peaceful protest was crossed in the alleged incident or not.”It is debatable whether Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections of attempt to murder, assault on public servant and attempt of snatching (which could have caused death), could have been invoked by the police, the bench said.These issues would be dealt with during the trial, the bench said, further recoding that though the matter is under investigation but that itself would not be sufficient ground to deny personal liberty to Kaur. The court also refrained from commenting upon content of a video submitted by the government, in which, the police alleged, Kaur can be seen inciting protesters.The court further asked Kaur to maintain restraint while on bail to ensure that no law and order issue arises due to her actions.Kaur moved the high court seeking bail on February 22.Kaur’s counsel RS Cheema had told the court that she, along with some workers, were peacefully protesting against the non-payment of wages. Cheema also contested the attempt to murder charges invoked against Kaur.Opposing her bail, the police accused Kaur of trying to extort money from industrialists and inciting workers during the protest. According to police, a unit in Kundli was gheraoed on January 12 and its staff was manhandled by members of Kaur’s group. The police also accused her of making provocative speeches during the protest that resulted in clashes and injuries to seven police personnel, including a woman constable.Meanwhile, the medical examination report of the activist submitted in court recorded two injuries caused by a “blunt object”. The report termed them simple injuries.The examination was conducted on January 25, thirteen days after her arrest.While Kaur has alleged that she was physically assaulted by the police, the Haryana Police have denied the accusations.Three first information reports (FIR) were registered against Kaur and she has already been granted bail from the lower courts in two of the FIRs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/did-not-break-any-law-nodeep-kaur-after-hc-grants-bail-101614366410977.html
27-02-2021||India||SC rejects contempt plea, says tigress Avni killed in accordance with order||The Supreme Court on Friday closed contempt proceedings initiated against Maharashtra government officials over the death of man-eater tigress Avni in November 2018.The Court issued notices to Maharashtra principal secretary Vikas Kharge, principal chief conservator forests (Nagpur), deputy conservator forests (Nagpur), deputy conservator forests (Pandharkawada) and member secretary, NTCA, on February 10 on a petition filed by a wildlife activist Sangeeta Dogra.The petition raised doubts on the tigress being a man-eater and also pointed out that the forest officials violated the Supreme Court’s order of September 11, 2018, restraining any kind of celebrations over the death of the tigress.On Friday, the officials who were issued notices filed their responses, claiming that there are no grounds for contempt. They said that the order to shoot the tigress was confirmed by the top court itself in its September 2018 order. On the aspect of celebration, the officers stated that they had no knowledge about the function to felicitate the shooter as it was organised by villagers. This event did not involve forest officials, they submitted to the court.Dogra said in her petition that villagers arranged a felicitation function for the shooter, a professional hunter, on November 14, 2018. At the event, they presented a silver statue of tigress along with a cash reward to the hunter.The bench led by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde and comprising justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, said: “If villagers believe that they will not be attacked again and decide to celebrate, how can the forest officials ensure that they don’t celebrate?”The court took the statements of the officers on record and said, “We can’t review our earlier decision and say she was not a man-eater. Also, they are stating that villagers and not they (officials) had celebrated... We cannot interfere in this case.” The court allowed Dogra to withdraw the petition.On September 11, 2018, the Supreme Court while permitting Avni (T-1) to be shot said: “The efforts to tranquilise and capture T-1 tigress will be continued and if unsuccessful, it shall be eliminated by shooting to avoid any further loss of human life. The Chief Conservator of Forests, Yavatmal is authorised to carry out the above order. He shall not declare any prize or any similar incentive for the responsible person.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-rejects-contempt-plea-says-tigress-avni-killed-in-accordance-with-order-101614365117607.html
27-02-2021||India||‘Best of the best’: Election Commission on poll observer deployed in Bengal||The Election Commission of India would be deploying some of its ‘best of the best’ observers in West Bengal, who had earlier also been deployed in the state during the 2019 Lok Sabha polls when the BJP managed to make deep inroads.TMC chief Mamata Banerjee has hit back saying that it would be a big blunder.The chief election commissioner Sunil Arora said that Ajay V Nayak, former chief electoral officer of Bihar, would be deployed as the special observer to West Bengal. He is a 1984 batch retired IAS officer.“He is one of the best CEOs the commission ever had. Not that we have dearth of them but he was one of the best of the best,” said Arora.Nayak was also deployed as a special observer in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. The BJP had won 40% of the vote share and 18 of the 42 seats emerging as the principal opponent of the ruling TMC. The TMC which got 43% votes had won 22 seats.The ECI has also decided to send at least two police observers to West Bengal to look into the law and order. At least 125 companies of central armed police forces have already been sent to West Bengal.“Retired IPS officer Vivek Dubey, a 1981 batch officer from Andhra Pradesh would be sent as IPS observer. He was the IPS observer in West Bengal in the last parliament elections also. Mrinal Kanti Das, a retired 1977 batch IPS officer of Manipur-Tripura cadre would also be sent. He was the observer in Tripura elections. Under different circumstance he had acquainted himself exceptionally well,” he added.Earlier in January this year when the full bench of the ECI had visited West Bengal, the opposition parties had complained about deteriorating law and order situation in the state and rising violence.Trinamool Congress chief Mamata Banerjee hit out saying: “I would humbly request the ECI not to look at West Bengal through the eyes of the BJP. Same man is being deputed as observer. In 2019, Vivek Dubey was the observer here. We know what he has done here. We know all the game and drama. BJP has the power of central agencies and the Union government. The Union government should not misuse its powers. If it is allowed it would be a big blunder and you will have to face the music.”BJP’s state spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya said: “Disrespecting the ECI means the chief minister is disrespecting the Constitution. The people of Bengal will give a befitting reply to this.”As expenditure observer the ECI is sending B Murli Kumar, a retired 1983 batch IRS officer.Poll panel officials said that special central observers are sent to each poll-bound state depending on the sensitivity of the state to look into law and order, expenditure and other aspects. The observers are usually retired bureaucrats who had held top posts in various central agencies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/best-of-the-best-election-commission-on-poll-observer-deployed-in-bengal-101614364793873.html
27-02-2021||NA||Highlights: Goa CM asks people to be alert, not believe rumors about lockdown||India is witnessing a fresh surge in its daily new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), though the daily count continues to be under 20,000. Its current infection count stands at 11,063,491 after the Union health ministry on Friday reported that there were 16,577 new infections in the previous 24 hours. Maharashtra, one of several states flagged by the health ministry as an area of concern recorded more than 8,000 new cases on Thursday for a second straight day. The western state's capital, Mumbai, meanwhile registered more than 1,100 new infections for second day running.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageIndia's Covid-19 tally is the second-highest globally, while its death toll is the fourth-highest. The United States, with over 28.4 million infections and more than 508,000 related deaths, tops on both counts. Brazil's tally is the third-highest while its death toll is the second-highest. Mexico, meanwhile, has the third highest number of deaths due to the pandemic. These numbers have been maintained by the Johns Hopkins University, based in Baltimore in the United States.Follow all the updates here:Covid-19 lockdown in Greece extended till March 8The Greek government said on Friday that lockdown imposed to curb the spread of the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease has been extended to March 8. This announcement comes in the backdrop of the surge in the infection rate. FDA advisory panel to review Johnson & Johnson Covid-19 vaccine with thumbs up expectedA panel of expert advisers to the US Food and Drug Administration began a meeting to discuss Johnson & Johnson's one-dose Covid-19 vaccine on Friday, setting the stage for a possible emergency use authorization as early as this week, reports Reuters.Click here to read moreGoa CM appeals to people to not fall prey for rumors about lockdownI appeal to the people to stay alert to the situation and avoid mass gatherings, follow all norms such as social distancing, wearing masks and using sanitizers. Also requesting citizens to not fall prey to rumours of lockdown. 2/2Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant has appealed to the people to stay alert to the situation and not fall prey to rumours about lockdown. He also said that the rising Covid-19 cases is a cause of concern and assured that his government is monitoring the situation closely.Maharashtra's Jalna reports 171 new Covid-19 cases, 4 deathsFour people died and 171 people were reported as Covid-19 positive in Maharashtra's Jalna district on Friday, taking the tally to 15,149 cases 390 deaths, reports PTI. Also, 13,929 people have been discharged taking the recovery rate to 92 per cent.Currently 828 people receive treatment in hospitals according to Jalna civil surgeion Archana Bhosale.On February 24, educational institutions and weekly markets were shut down in Jalna, following many places in Maharashtra state.TN registers 481 new Covid-19 cases, five deathsTamil Nadu reports 481 new #COVID19 cases, 483 recoveries, and 5 deaths today.Total cases: 8,50,577Total recoveries: 8,34,043Death toll: 12,488Active cases: 4,046 pic.twitter.com/jRpipEhs2oTamil Nadu's Covid-19 tally reached 8,50,577 cases and 12,488 deaths after reporting 481 new cases and five fatalities on Friday, reports ANI.More than 1.37 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses administered, says health ministry#LargestVaccineDriveMore than 1.37 Cr #COVID19 vaccine doses administered.2.84 L vaccine doses given till 6 pm today; 1,71,089 HCWs received second dose of vaccine today.https://t.co/JhExrJj4Tt pic.twitter.com/MNBbuyt7kcThe Union ministry of health and family welfare had said that as of 6pm on Friday 1,37,56,94 doses of the Covid-19 vaccine have been administered in the country through 2,89,320 sessions."These include 66,37,049 (76.6%)HCWs who have taken the 1st dose and 22,04,083 (62.9%)HCWs who have taken the 2nd dose, along with 49,15,808 (47.7%)FLWs (1st dose). While the countrywide vaccination drive was rolled out on 16th Jan 2021, vaccination of the FLWs started from 2nd Feb 2021," the ministry said in a statement.Goa records 100 new Covid-19 cases, three more casualtiesWith 100 new Covid-19 infections and three deaths, Goa's Covid-19 tally reached 54,871 cases and 794 deaths, PTI reported.Total recoveries reached 53,490 patients and active cases stand at 587.Karnataka reports 571 new Covid-19 cases, 4 deathsKarnataka reported 571 new COVID-19 cases, 642 recoveries, and 4 deaths in the last 24 hours, as per State Health Department Total cases: 9,50,207Total recoveries: 9,32,367Active cases: 5,501Death toll: 12,320 pic.twitter.com/fzpVFyqykOKarnataka reported 571 new Covid-19 cases and four deaths in the last 24 hours taking the state's tally to 9,50,207 cases and 12,320 deaths, reports ANI. Total recoveries stand at 9,32,367 after 642 patients recovered in the last 24 hours.Health ministry says 1,37,56,940 vaccinations completedTotal 1,37,56,940 vaccinations have been done till 6pm today: Health Ministry pic.twitter.com/4yUJNiqBa7Union health ministry says 1,37,56,940 Covid-19 vaccinations completed as of 6pm on Friday, reports ANI.Delhi reports 256 new Covid-19 cases, tally reaches 6,38,849Delhi reports 256 new #COVID19 cases, 193 recoveries and one death in the last 24 hours.Total cases 6,38,849Total recoveries 6,26,712Death toll 10,906Active cases 1,231 pic.twitter.com/CjPN39FbeIWith 256 new Covid-19 cases and one death in the last 24 hours, Delhi's tally reached 6,38,849 cases and 10,906 deaths, reports ANI.Covid-19: Curfew imposed in Maharashtra's Yavatmal district from 5pm on Saturday till 9am on MondayMaharashtra | Curfew imposed in Yavatmal district from 5 pm on Saturday to 9 am on Monday, essential services will continue during this curfew: M Devender Singh, Collector, YavatmalYavatmal district collector M Devender Singh has imposed a curfew from 5pm on Saturday till 9am on Monday allowing essential services to function, reports ANI.Covid-19: Prevalence of infections falls in England, 1 in 145 people infectedAccording to the Office for National Statistics, with 1 in 145 people infected with Covid-19, the prevalence of the disease in England has fallen from 1 in 115 people infected earlier, reports Reuters.Home ministry extends surveillance, containment, caution guidelines to March 31#IndiaFightsCorona:@HMOIndia extends guidelines for Surveillance, Containment and Caution States/ UnionTerritories to strictly enforce #SOPs on various activities and to exercise caution & strict surveillance.Details: https://t.co/FL1BGX1p7F#Unite2FightCorona #IndiaWillWin pic.twitter.com/Hrhj595l9JMinistry of home affairs has said that the existing surveillance, containment and caution guidelines would continue to be in effect till March 31. The ministry also urged the states to speed up vaccination process to break the chain of transmission.Centre explains features of CO-Win 2.0 application to states, UTsThe States and UTs were explained the basic features of version 2.0 of the digital platform CO-Win. Private sector hospitals will be involved as COVID Vaccination centres to harness their potential to expand the vaccination capacities: Government of IndiaOfficials from the Central government's Covid-19 vaccination program met with the health secretaries of states, Union territories and explained the basic features of version 2.0 of the CO-Win mobile application, reports ANI.Karnataka to not stop buses from Maharashtra and KeralaNo bus will be stopped from entering Karnataka (from Maharashtra and Kerala). However, the passengers will need Covid-19 negative certificates and strictly follow all the guidelines: Laxman Savadi, Karnataka transport minister and Deputy CMNo Covid-19 vaccination on Feb 27 and 28: Health ministryOn Feb 27 and Feb 28, Co-Win digital platform will be transitioning from Co-Win1.0 to Co-Win 2.0. In view of this, Covid-19 vaccination sessions will not be scheduled during these two days: Union Health Ministry50 million vaccine shots administered in USThe US has administered a record 50 million people against Covid-19. President Joe Biden said on Thursday the US reached the halfway mark of 50 million shots in just 37 days since he became President.No new Covid-19 case in Arunachal for 7 daysNo fresh Covid-19 case has been reported in Arunachal Pradesh for a week, a senior health official said on Friday. The total caseload here remained at 16,836 and the death toll at 56.No Covid-19 deaths in 20 states/UTs in last 24 hours: Health ministry20 States/UTs haven't reported any Covid-19 deaths in last 24 hours.These are-Delhi, Haryana, Rajasthan, J&K, Andhra Pradesh, Jharkhand, Chandigarh, HP, Assam, Ladakh, Tripura, Mizoram, Nagaland, Manipur, Meghalaya, Sikkim, D&D & D&N, Uttarakhand, Arunachal Pradesh, A&N Islands: Health ministryWHO chief hails India, PM Modi for vaccinesThanks 🇮🇳 & Prime Minister @narendramodi for supporting #VaccinEquity. Your commitment to #COVAX and sharing #COVID19 vaccine doses is helping 60+ countries start vaccinating their #healthworkers and other priority groups. I hope other countries will follow your example.Thanks India and PM Narendra Modi for supporting vaccine equity, tweets World Health Organization director general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus.South Korea launches Covid-19 vaccine driveSouth Korea began its Covid-19 vaccine drive on Friday, with shots to be administered in some 200 nursing homes.India's active caseload at 155,986; over 156,000 deadIndia's active Covid-19 caseload rises to 155,986 while death toll rises to 156,825 with 120 more fatalities. Vaccination mark, meanwhile, reaches 13,472,643.India records 16,577 new Covid-19 casesIndia records 16,577 new Covid-19 cases as tally rises to 11,063,491. 12,179 new recoveries take total recovered cases to 10,750,680.214,661,465 samples tested for Covid-19: ICMRCOVID-19 Testing Update. For more details visit: https://t.co/dI1pqvXAsZ @MoHFW_INDIA @DeptHealthRes #ICMRFIGHTSCOVID19 #IndiaFightsCOVID19 #CoronaUpdatesInIndia #COVID19 #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/nZ8INPDRHI214,661,465 samples tested for Covid-19 till 25 February 2021: Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)Brazil to buy 20 million Covid-19 vaccines from Indian firmBrazil's health Ministry on Thursday signed a contract to purchase 20 million doses of Covaxin, the Covid-19 vaccine made by India's Bharat Biotech, for delivery between March and May.6 new Covid-19 cases in ChinaChina reports six new cases of Covid-19 as against seven a day before. Tally reaches 89,877 while toll unchanged at 4,636.Mizoram reports 6 new Covid-19 casesMizoram reports six new Covid-19 cases as tally reaches 4,419. 4,382 discharges, 27 active cases and 10 deaths here thus far.California's Covid-19 death toll tops 50,000In US state of California, 1,114 more people succumb to Covid-19, taking the state's death toll to 50,991, bout one-tenth of the US' total deaths from the pandemic.Brazil's death toll due to Covid-19 tops 250,000Brazil's death toll due to Covid-19 has reached 251,498, after 1,541 more people succumbed on Thursday. Its infection tally, meanwhile, is at over 10.3 million.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-india-world-latest-news-covid-19-death-toll-february-26-2021-101614303550908.html
27-02-2021||NA||Highlights| Will go to Singhu, again stand with farmers: activist Nodeep kaur||The farmers' agitation against the contentious farm laws continues as the protesters remain adamant on their demand to repeal the legislation. Began in November last week, it has been nearly three months now that the farmers from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh are camping in and around Delhi to protest against the legislation.Several farm organisation protesting the new farm laws decided to join the ‘Bharat Bandh’ call given by transport and trade unions today. On February 25, the Samyukta Kisan Morcha appealed to all farmers to join the bandh peacefully. Farm leader Dr Darshan Pal said farmers’ bodies support the traders facing hardships due to GST and rising fuel prices.Meanwhile, Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar tried to assure agitating farmers on Twitter as he said the Centre can never dare to make laws that will harm farmers. "In a democracy, a government can never dare to make such a law that will harm farmers," said Tomar at Pusa Krishi Vigyan Mela 2021 in Delhi.Follow all the live updates here:Follow all the updates here:Will go to Singhu, again stand with farmers, says activist Nodeep Kaur after being released from jailTrade Union activist Nodeep Kaur said on Friday that she would go to the Singhu border and once again stand with the farmers who have been protesting against the Centre's three new farm laws since last November. This statement of Kaur came after she was granted bail by the Punjab and Haryana High Court earlier in the day. She was arrested on January 12 after participating in farmers' protests at Kundli in Haryana.Did not participate in R-Day violence: Deep Sidhu tells CourtActor-turned-activist Deep Sidhu on Friday urged the Delhi Court to preserve the CCTV footage of the Red Fort, which is already with the Investigating Agency and visuals, to show that he did not participate in any act of violence and rather he was helping the police in pacifying the crowd on Republic Day in New Delhi, reports ANI.Protesting farmers block train transporting wheat in Punjab's MogaA group of farmers protesting against the Centre's three farm laws on Friday stopped a wheat-laden train in Punjab's Moga district, reports ANI.BKU leader Rakesh Tikait attends Kisan maha panchayat in Ganganagar district of Rajasthan@किसान महापंचायत पदमपुर मंडी ,जिला गंगानगर ( राजस्थान ) pic.twitter.com/Ueyuq5FfgQProtests in Canada against attack on Hindus allegedly by Khalistani elementsKisan Congress activists to gherao agriculture minister's officeKisan Congress to stage a protest in Delhi today to mark the three months of farmers' agitation. The Kisan Congress activists will assemble at AICC Headquarters at around 11:30 am before proceeding to Gherao Union Agriculture Minister's office .Youth Akali Dal to 'gherao' Delhi Police personnelThe Youth Akali Dal (YAD) will gherao Delhi Police personnel for singling out Punjabi youth for arrests by registering false cases against them in connection with the January 26 incidents in the national capital.Farm unions to join Bharat Bandh todayVarious farm organisation have extended their support to the Bharat Bandh today. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-farm-laws-february-26-2021-101614303901552.html
27-02-2021||Today's||The 2021 elections will shape politics for years||Given that polls are held every year in some part of India, the upcoming polls in West Bengal, Assam, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Puducherry can be seen as yet another component of India’s dynamic democratic cycle. But these elections, arguably, have much greater significance than usual. The polls are happening in the backdrop of a turbulent time in national politics where structural changes are underway; the poll results will determine the trajectory of India’s national and top regional parties; they will, therefore, also have an impact on the nature of the federal structure that underpins the constitutional order in India; and each state has gone through a challenging time, in terms of both politics and governance, and the outcome will reflect how voters perceive the performance of the state governments in dealing with these challenges. To begin with, while there is now overwhelming evidence that state elections are fought and won on state-specific leadership and issues, they cannot be divorced from the larger national backdrop. There are three specific national-level changes, which will have an impact on state polls. The first is, of course, Covid-19. The pandemic disrupted lives and livelihoods, changed the nature of political communication, and highlighted issues which, so far, had not been at the heart of the electoral discourse — including health care. The elections will show if Covid-19 has forced a change in the way parties reach out to voters and the way in which voters decide on their choices, or whether the pandemic has, actually, not changed older political patterns. The second is the direction of economic reforms the government has undertaken. While this remains at a preliminary stage — the Centre’s moves on privatisation, for instance, have not been operationalised yet — there is now a clear sign that the government will push through liberal economic measures, which cater to the market and private sector. It is too early to link any electoral outcome to this new direction, but the farm laws and the protests around it — which were geographically concentrated around north India, but had national reverberations — provide an early indication of the political passions around reforms. And finally, in three of the five states going to polls — Assam, West Bengal and Tamil Nadu — domestic politics has a strong external dimension. The debate around the immigrants, the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) and the National Register of Citizens brings Bangladesh into India’s domestic discourse, while the debate around Tamil rights in Sri Lanka, has an impact in Tamil Nadu. The outcome of the polls will have an impact on all these dimensions — how India’s political structures will adapt to a post-Covid-19 world; how India’s economic reform trajectory will proceed; and how India will navigate ties with the neighbourhood when the lines between the external and internal get blurred. These polls also matter because they will shape the political future of a range of parties. For the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the ideal scenario is retaining power in Guwahati, getting to the seat of power in Kolkata (the big prize), having an ally govern in Chennai, squeezing through as a part of a ruling coalition in Puducherry, and expanding its presence in the assembly in Thiruvananthapuram. If this happens, expect a more confident Centre, which will pursue its political and ideological agenda with renewed vigour; and even if the BJP succeeds in just winning the east while making limited forays into the south, it will see this as a political vote of confidence. For the Congress, the ideal scenario is winning back Assam from the BJP on the plank of its opposition to CAA, ensuring that the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam-led alliance returns to power in Tamil Nadu, where the Congress has a respectable junior status in government, and proving a political point in Puducherry where its government was just ousted. In Bengal, the Congress wants to expand its presence, but while keeping the BJP out of power. But there is a paradox here — success for the Congress-Left Front will split the anti-BJP vote. So there is a clash between its local politics and its national ambition of weakening the BJP. But the most important state for the party is Kerala. For two years, Rahul Gandhi has claimed he is a mere Member of Parliament from Wayanad, and while recognising that polls will be fought on a range of local factors, Kerala will be seen as Gandhi’s test within the Congress. For the regional parties, these elections hold huge significance. All eyes are on the Trinamool Congress (TMC) — and whether, after being in power for a decade and facing an aggressive BJP, which confounded pundits by winning 18 of the 42 seats in the state in 2019, Mamata Banerjee can retain power. A victory for her, in the face of the BJP onslaught, will boost the confidence of other smaller regional forces — and she can be expected to renew efforts to forge an anti-BJP national coalition. For the DMK, out of power for 10 years in the state, and now without the guardianship of M Karunanidhi, the elections will determine the political future of MK Stalin and, determine, more significantly, whether the BJP can be kept out as a direct or indirect player in the state where there exists deep suspicion of its cultural and linguistic politics. For the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, in the absence of J Jayalalithaa and the challenge from Sasikala, who is staking claim to the political legacy of the former CM, all hopes are riding on the incumbent CM’s governance record and support from the Centre. For the Left, Kerala remains the only state where it exercises power — and whether it can beat Kerala’s electoral dynamic of voting in alternate parties to power is the big test. And then there are smaller forces in each state — including Muslim parties in Kerala, Assam and West Bengal — who aim to expand their presence, although, in some ways, their presence enables the BJP to engage in the politics of polarisation. The election outcome will then, have an impact on the federal structure. Over the past year in particular, the federal structure has come under strain. Non-BJP forces believe that a strong Centre, run by a hegemonic force, is undermining the constitutional structure by taking over state subjects and legislating on them, altering the financial structures which would enable states to perform effectively, and accumulating power while leaving responsibilities in the hands of states. The Centre believes that these grievances are a result of political opposition, and that whenever there has been a constructive suggestion by states, it has been taken on board. It is in this backdrop that a BJP win in Bengal and presence in government, directly or indirectly, in Tamil Nadu will strengthen the Centre’s hand — while a TMC win in Bengal and a DMK win in Tamil Nadu will strengthen the voice of states. In the final analysis though, the elections will reflect voter satisfaction — or dissatisfaction — with their respective state governments at a time of unprecedented suffering due to the pandemic and associated economic costs. Sarbananda Sonowal, Mamata Banerjee, EK Palaniswami, Pinarayi Vijayan and V Narayanasamy (who has now resigned) are on test. They will know how voters marked them on May 2. letters@hindustantimes.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-2022-elections-will-shape-politics-for-years-101614437889971.html
27-02-2021||Today's||Securing India’s international image||India is described as a flawed democracy in the Economist Intelligence Unit’s Democracy Index. It has slipped from 27 in the rankings in 2014 to 53 in 2020. But does the government care about this slippage or indeed should it care? Three recent events make me wonder. At the end of last year, an international tribunal ruled against India in a retrospective tax dispute with Cairn Energy. The tribunal called on the government to repay Cairn the $1.2 billion retrospective tax it had recovered, but it’s reported that there is going to be an appeal against the award. The government has also reportedly appealed against the award of an international tribunal, which ruled against its claim for $2.2 billion retrospective tax from Vodafone. Challenging these awards flies in the face of international business opinion. Knowing how much tax will be levied is a crucial factor in an international investor’s decision to invest in any country. By insisting on its right to collect retrospective taxes, the government is undermining the confidence of international investors in India. The second event, which did not enhance India’s international reputation, was the ministry of education’s recent instruction to all government-funded educational institutions to get a clearance before organising a virtual or online conference or service training. The respective ministry giving the clearance was instructed to ensure, among other things, that the subjects to be discussed did not refer to security or India’s internal matters. This provoked anguished letters to the minister of education from the heads of two of India’s top scientific institutions, The Indian Academy of Sciences and The Indian National Academy of Sciences.The good news is that the government has chosen to act on this feedback and reports suggest that it has withdrawn the draconian guidelines. The storm over the arrest on a sedition charge of the young climate activist, Disha Ravi, is the third event which has made me wonder how much the government cares about international opinion. The Economist Intelligence Unit’s Democracy Index attributes India’s slippage to “democratic backsliding” and “crackdowns on civil liberties”. If the government cared about the Index, it would not continue to make extensive use of the colonial sedition act under which people are losing their fundamental civil liberties. Sedition charges increased by 160% between 2016 and 2019, and although only 3% of these cases have resulted in convictions, people are still being deprived of their liberties unjustifiably. Should the government worry about possible foreign reaction to these three events? At a time when the government is looking for foreign investment to help fund its inputs in infrastructure, it is surely unwise to give the impression of India being an unreliable place to put your money by continuing to try to enforce retrospective tax judgments. The education ministry has now withdrawn the order insisting on ministries giving clearance before academics can hold online conferences, but why was it issued in the first place? If the government had cared about the opinion of the international academic community, the ministry would surely never have issued an order which damaged the global standing of Indian science, and would have limited the contribution of Indian scientists to international science. As for the third event, Disha Ravi has now been granted bail. However, in his judgment granting bail, Judge Dhamender Rana said, “The offence of sedition cannot be involved to minister to the wounded vanity of governments.” The government must heed this warning. letters@hindustantimes.com||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/securing-india-s-international-image-101614436752809.html
27-02-2021||Today's||The evolution of India’s Twitter diplomacy||Since @IndianDiplomacy made a hesitant institutional foray into the realm of social media with a tweet in July 2010, India’s diplomatic establishment has built an impressive presence on many social media platforms, including Twitter. Currently, the Twitter handle of the official spokesperson of the ministry of external affairs (MEA), a later entry, has more than two million followers. All Indian missions are on Twitter as are many Indian diplomats. Cumulatively, Twitter handles of Indian diplomats in more than 130 countries have around 10 million followers, giving them considerable global reach.Even while China, the world’s only other billion person-plus market, has locked Twitter out, India has grown to become the third-largest global market for Twitter after the United States and Japan. India’s diplomats have reaped significant benefits from their decade-long engagements on Twitter. These go beyond trending press releases with eye-catching hashtags or grabbing of eye-balls with internet memes. Creative use of this platform has enabled MEA to become aware more quickly and respond with greater swiftness to evolving circumstances.Discerning the tea leaves of subterranean trends by immersive social media engagement is a new art form for Indian diplomats, akin to their predecessors making sense of the “big-character-posters” in China during the Maoist era. Humanitarian concerns of Indian nationals caught up in distant crises now attract more high-level attention. A greater degree of sensitivity to public opinion while assessing and responding to such situations has followed. Digital interactions have catalysed impressive improvements in the delivery of consular and passport services.Harnessing the considerable public appeal of political leaders in ways never envisaged before, foreign policy positions are disseminated to a wider cross-section of Indian society. Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s vast appeal across so many social media platforms are tools that give unparalleled traction to India’s diplomatic outreach. From popularising the global conduct of the International Day of Yoga as a form of cultural diplomacy to inviting President Barack Obama to India’s Republic Day celebrations in 2015 and receiving his response on Twitter have made PM Modi’s “Twiplomacy” the stuff that public relations professionals dream of.Former external affairs minister, the late Sushma Swaraj, creatively used Twitter by tagging individual ambassadors and exhorting them to respond swiftly to requests for services required by citizens in distress, thereby ensuring rapid public confirmation of tasks once completed. The present incumbent, S Jaishankar often bonds with his counterparts on Twitter on their national occasions as India steps up its global diplomacy. Arguably, social media is impacting Indian diplomacy in more profound ways than other changes embraced in recent times. In many ways, it has made foreign policy less “foreign” to Indians. Similarly, Indian diplomatic postures are perhaps less of a conundrum to foreign “publics”.Such changes have brought with them challenges too. In a multipolar world rife with concerns about terrorism, contentious trade disputes among allies and adversaries, catastrophic environmental degradation, health issues, human rights advocacy, the security implications of new technologies have made social media platforms an arena of inter-State contestation. Wolf warriors are said to be on the prowl digitally. Bots are trolling Indian diplomats online in a manner that intelligence operatives of inimical states pursue their every move in some locales.If the airwaves were used for propaganda purposes between the Soviet Union and the West during the Cold War, digital platforms cannot but be scenes of firefights as states jostle to seek support for their respective views. Spurred by the support of legions of followers, Indian diplomats, too, have, on occasions, sparred with adversaries.However, by definition, social media platforms are not the preserve of states. It is individuals and non-State actors of different hues that rule the roost there. Concerns of diplomatic establishments are not the primary issues in the mix. Though State functionaries may have some advantages, public figures and celebrities promoting their causes with little concerns for the nuances of State policy can be more than a match for them. On the social media circuit, the shield of rules and procedures that diplomats are schooled in do not offer protection. Often, style trumps substance. Boundaries that diplomats are taught to adhere to have less meaning in the virtual world than in the real world. There are few equivalents of diplomatic “red lines” that can’t be crossed. Everything is everybody’s business. Nothing is sacrosanct. No one is above being judged, many a time, rather irreverently. For diplomats, engaging robustly in the social media space is tantamount to pursuit of national interests without diplomatic immunity.On digital platforms, the meanings of long-established practices imbibed by Indian diplomats such as “quiet” diplomacy, “low-key” efforts, “considered” responses and “discreet” enquiries require recalibration. Many of India’s tallest diplomats, who have excelled at traditional diplomacy, have been able to establish only a limited social media presence. Public diplomacy on social media is a premium skill. Like other aspects of diplomacy, it needs to be honed, where necessary with professional assistance and support.Despite this, for Indian diplomats, there is no going back from increased social media engagement in general or even on Twitter, which at times runs into the cross hairs of our regulations. In an increasingly polarised social environment and amid sharpening global rivalries, Twitter storms are more often and more easily triggered than diplomatic storms. However, experience shows that they are, usually, easier to tide over too.Syed Akbaruddin is a former diplomat, who served as India’s permanent representative to the UN and headed MEA’s external publicity divisionThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-evolution-of-india-s-twitter-diplomacy-101614344582598.html
27-02-2021||Today's||What is blocking Neera Tanden’s rise to the cabinet||Neera Tanden has secured a place for herself in history. If confirmed, she will become the first Indian-American to hold a Cabinet position — and not a Cabinet-rank post such as Nikki Haley who was ambassador to the United Nations — in the United States (US) federal government, as director of the office of budget and management. She will also be the first woman of colour to hold that position.If rejected, however, which is looking increasingly more probable, Tanden will become the first Indian-American blocked from a Cabinet position.That’s not a glowing pitch for the history books. But the ignominy will not be hers. It will rest on the shoulders of the US lawmakers who were unable to overcome, once again, their hypocrisy, sexism and even, racism.With Democrats in charge of the Senate, a confirmation should have been in the bag for Tanden, a Democratic president’s nominee. But in an evenly divided Senate, Tanden needed to carry the entire Democratic caucus — all 50 — to get to the halfway mark, to then be carried over the finish line by Vice-President Kamala Harris’s tie-breaker vote; without having to bank on Republicans.But Joe Manchin, a Democrat, broke ranks to oppose Tanden’s nomination, leaving her at the mercy of Republicans. She now needs at least one of them to bail her out.And so far, no Republican has come to her rescue, not even the moderate Republicans.The problem with Tanden, Republicans say, and Manchin agrees, is this — she is divisive. For evidence, they have cited her scathing tweets from the past four years, targeting essentially, but not only, Republicans.Here is what she said about some Republican senators: Susan Collins was “the worst”, Tom Cotton was a “fraud”, Mitch McConnell was “Voldemort”, and vampires had more heart than Ted Cruz.Tanden has apologised for these tweets and deleted them. But that’s not what her detractors are after. Over the same four years, these Republicans looked the other way as former President Donald Trump had been far more abusive on social media platforms and in public remarks.These Republicans — and Manchin — had also voted to confirm Trump’s ambassador to Germany, Richard Grenell, who had a Twitter reputation far worse than Tanden’s. But he probably got a pass for being a man.“I feel like there’s a little bit of sexism going on here,” William Kristol, a conservative political commentator, told the Washington Post, though he had not specifically referenced Grenell. “It just seems like these tweets sound harsher to these old guys because they’re coming from a woman,” he added, about Tanden’s posts.Could Tanden have gotten away with these posts if she was not a woman of colour? Strong and assertive women of colour have often been described as “angry”, “nasty” and “aggressive” to demean and discredit them. Remember former President Donald Trump calling Harris “‘nasty” after he had called her a “fine choice” as a running mate?Tanden is a victim of bias, of every imaginable kind. The issue is not her tweets.yashwant.raj@hindustantimes.comThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/what-is-blocking-neera-tanden-s-rise-to-the-cabinet-101614344580313.html
27-02-2021||Today's||Stress hits the bottom line – in more ways than you think||There is this riddle among children. A ship is anchored in a harbour where the tide recedes one foot every hour. The ship’s ladder, which leads into the water, has rungs that are a foot apart. How many hours would it take for the water to drop three rungs of the ladder as the tide lowers? The intuitive answer would be three hours — but it’s wrong. When the tide recedes, the ship lowers with it and the rungs of the ladder remain same in relation to the water. If one were to use the ladder’s rungs as a benchmark, they would miss the fact that the ship has come down by several feet.The pandemic has affected each of us to varying degrees. A year of isolation, unnatural and cramped confinement, loss of social interaction, death of loved ones, loss of jobs, uncertainty about the future and several similar concerns are taking a heavy toll on each of us, but because the “ladder” remains where it is, most corporate leaders are unaware of the magnitude of the crisis facing their teams and organisations.Mental health, specifically depression, was already a gargantuan crisis well before Covid-19. The World Health Organization had predicted depression to be largest global health burden by 2030 — ahead of heart diseases or cancer. They were wrong in their estimate by almost 10 years. Depression is now the leading medical burden in the world. By extension, it is also the leading cause of corporate inefficiency and yet remains unaddressed for several reasons.First, mental health is a taboo in most societies and definitely pariah status in corporates, which idealises the strong, stoic leader. Stress, anxiety and depression are viewed as weaknesses and anyone professing them is more likely to be eased out of the organisation than to be helped out. Second, most leaders don’t understand the construct of mental health. The statistic that one in five Indians is undergoing some form of stress hides the fact that, this “one in five” is a round robin that affects each one of those five at some point, with varying degrees of damage.Most importantly, while corporates use sophisticated tools for measuring physical presence and shallow work of their employees, they don’t meaningfully gauge their creative engagement or commitment to the organisation and colleagues. It is ironic that organisations, which schedule downtime for maintenance of their plant equipment to preserve their efficacy, believe that their personnel can continue to function effectively without any mental and emotional care. Consider these paradoxes.Working from cramped, underresourced environment of their homes with little or no contact with teammates, for longer hours, without the relief of social friends and yet being expected to deliver the same quality of work as before, is an unrealistic ask — yet the norm among corporates. Several indicators of social stability such as divorce rates, broken relationships, suicides (especially among the young), financial distress, physical and emotional health are all plummeting alarmingly, and, yet, the expectation from the employees is that they will somehow become happy and positive after logging into the workplace. The expectation that an employee who indulged in road rage (another sign of social stress) on the way to work will become an empathetic team player when he enters the campus would be laughable if it wasn’t so sad.Each of us has a finite amount of physical and emotional reserves, which get whittled away with every instance that induces stress, whether caused by professional, personal or social anxieties. With the increase in work cadence, under frustrating conditions, this limited resource isn’t getting replenished at the rate of exhaustion. The mask, arguably the most powerful symbol of zeitgeist, is perhaps an apt one. Our faces are hidden, our voices are muffled and our breath is constrained. So, no one knows how we feel, our cries for help are unheard, and we are all waiting to exhale.A large percentage of the employees are running on fumes. And corporates will pay a heavy price if they don’t see this clear and present danger.A common refrain heard these days is “taking life day by day”. This innocuous statement conceals the ominous danger looming ahead. Taking life one day at a time might be good pop psychology advice, but it also indicates the loss of agency over a horizon. Imagine the implications to a corporate if their head of strategy, or any other strategic leader for that matter, chooses the mindset of living one day at a time. Or the implications for industries such as insurance, research, infrastructure projects or specialisation studies if the current or potential workforce start thinking in such temporal terms. Or the implication for policies such as climate. The financial damage potential of anxiety is huge.This is an opportunity for corporates to accord the same importance to mental well-being, as they do for the physical safety, of their employees. Over recent decades, corporates have come a long way in terms of workplace safety because they realised the revenue and reputational costs. We need to create a similar environment when it comes to mental health. Focus on mental health is not some charitable feel-good initiative.It must be done with a hard eye on the financial performance of companies. Laptops in place of desktops, smartphone allowances, flexible hours of working and work from home were all instituted for their financial returns than merely employee convenience.Similarly, organisations must embark on rebuilding good mental health and morale through a programme as systematic and rigorous as it would for any of its organisational improvement initiatives. Otherwise, no matter how well they captained their ships during this period, it will be of little use if she has already run aground.Raghu Raman was founding CEO, NatgridThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/stress-hits-the-bottom-line-in-more-ways-than-you-think-101614344459047.html
27-02-2021||Editorials||The India-Pakistan thaw | HT Editorial||The sudden announcement of the Indian and Pakistani armies recommitting themselves to the frayed 2003 ceasefire agreement on the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) took many by surprise in New Delhi and Islamabad, especially as it came at a time when both countries have shown no signs of being able to agree on anything. It is also clear the decision to strictly adhere to the truce and address core concerns of both sides was not the outcome of a solitary call between the Directors General of Military Operations — such a move would have required considerable preparation and more than a single conversation. There has, therefore, been much speculation about back-channel talks, and Pakistan’s de facto national security adviser Moeed Yusuf acknowledged in an audio statement that there were “behind the scenes” contacts and more roads would open in the coming days (although Mr Yusuf later denied reports of direct contacts with his Indian counterpart).It is not unknown for even this Indian government, which has taken one of the strongest positions on Pakistan in recent decades, to engage in secret talks with the Pakistani side. After all, National Security Adviser Ajit Doval did met his then Pakistani counterpart in Thailand in 2018, paving the way for a limited engagement that ended due to the Pulwama terror attack, Balakot strikes and, subsequently, the change in Jammu and Kashmir’s special status in 2019. The top-most echelons of Indian leadership would have signed off on a decision as significant as the one to reinforce the LoC ceasefire. For India, any reduction of tensions on the LoC will allow the security establishment space and time to devote its energies more fully to a more pressing issue – the standoff on the Line of Actual Control.On the Pakistani side, the buzz is that the move is largely the handiwork of a small group that includes Pakistan Army chief Gen Qamar Bajwa, who has spoken twice this month of peaceful relations with all neighbours and the resolution of the Kashmir issue, and Mr Yusuf. Pakistan gets a respite at a time when its economy is battered, and also gets to be perceived as a reasonable player when it needs to make a new beginning with the Joe Biden administration. But if the thaw is governed merely by tactical considerations, the bilateral relationship won’t go far. Both India and Pakistan will now have to display greater sagacity and clear thinking for the strategic path they wish to chart, a pre-requisite of which is clear action on terror by Pakistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-india-pakistan-thaw-hteditorial-101614344581388.html
