02-09-2020||News||NEP fails to address concerns of students||While a lot has been written about the National Education Policy (NEP) 2020 from the academic, political, and ideological lens, the perspective of students has been missing. This is in keeping with the discourse on education, which marginalises the most important stakeholder. NEP itself neglects the concerns and aspirations of the young, especially first-generation learners. One, the question of access. Young people from poor and marginalised backgrounds who want to study in colleges are completely dependent on external financial support. It is thus surprising that when the policy identifies the “major problems faced by the higher education system in India” (Section 9.2), it makes no mention of the crippling lack of funds for the higher education sector. It is this lack of public investment which explains why almost 80% of colleges are private, and why even public universities are being privatised by transitioning to “self-financing” courses. It is because of lack of public investment that many public universities shockingly don’t hold classes as there aren’t enough teachers for all the enrolled students. And it is lack of public investment that denies six out of seven students enrolled in central universities affordable accommodation. The policy barely mentions hostels, but for large numbers of first-generation learners who secure admission in state and central universities away from home, the lack of affordable accommodation is a significant barrier to completing education. For instance, average tuition fees in Allahabad University is about ~1,000 annually, but room and board costs of ~45,000 to ~ one lakh annually are prohibitive for most poor students. If education has to provide a pathway for socio-economic mobility for our aspirational young, it can only be through publicly -funded education. Yet, when the policy talks of improving access to education, it says only that “there shall, by 2030, be at least one large multidisciplinary HEI (higher educational institution) in or near every district”, without mandating that this HEI be publicly-funded. The failure to highlight the lack of funding as a central problem with the education system and the absence of any timebound redress, especially in the face of declining expenditure (from 4.14% in the 2014 Budget to 3.3% in 2020) is a capitulation. A statement of intent to enhance funding isn’t enough. Two, NEP’s disregard of students and their perspective is also evident when it talks of governance of HEIs (Section 19). The policy says that over the next 15 years, all HEIs will become “self-governing” through the institution of a “Board of Governors (BoG)...consisting of a group of highly qualified, competent, and dedicated individuals having proven capabilities and a strong sense of commitment to the institution”. At no point in this section, or throughout the policy, is there any mention of democratic student representation in academic and administrative decision-making. NEP wants to promote critical thinking in the students, but fails to acknowledge that the first pre-requisite of critical thinking is a democratic atmosphere where students are encouraged to participate in decision-making. This is all the more important because in universities across the country, the administration is cracking down on free speech and deploying disproportionately punitive measures to keep dissenting students in check. A policy empathetic to students would have also acknowledged the skewed balance of power between the students and the administration and faculty in most HEIs, and underscored the need for transparency (beyond financial disclosures) and grievance redress measures. In this context, the National Students Union of India (NSUI) has drafted students’ rights act, which codifies the minimum non-negotiable rights of a student in any college or university and series of escalating institutional measures to help enforce these rights. Three, a policy sensitive to the needs and interests of our young people would put online education in its place as a tool to supplement or enhance the university experience, and not supplant it altogether. The university is a place for learning more than information; it is the place where most young people get their first taste of independence, develop a sense of self and build networks. These are often a bigger determinant of a student’s future trajectory, and it would be unfair to equate the university experience with the singular pursuit of education online. And four, a sensitive policy would acknowledge that for many young people, the raison d’être for higher education is better employment opportunities. This leads to two imperatives. First, to eliminate the political-commercial nexus at the heart of our education system and rationalise the supply of third-rate colleges in fields such as engineering and business administration; and second, proactively using academia to structure and formalise emerging professions and employment instead of merely letting young people become fodder for the informal gig economy. Yet the policy is silent on both these issues.For too long, the education system has talked down to young people, treating them as passive recipients of top-down wisdom. This is one of the main reasons for the poor quality of education in our country. A policy which aims to reform our education sector to produce “engaged, productive, and contributing citizens for building an equitable, inclusive, and plural society” does a great disservice to its own stated intent by bypassing students entirely. Ruchi Gupta is All India Congress joint secretary in charge of its student wing. The views expressed are personal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/nep-fails-to-address-concerns-of-students/story-HUSFzW3btMOoACZOEmZQ6M.html
02-09-2020||News||Chushul aggression is part of China’s plan. It wants to provoke India | Analysis||When then Defence Minister AK Antony returned from Beijing in July 2013, he was fascinated by the infrastructure development in China. He was rather intrigued how China was able to build straight roads unlike the ones that he had seen back home in India that yielded to hurdles in the way. At that point, Antony was told by his South Block advisers that in communist China, unlike India, buildings or any hurdles are uprooted to make way for the roads or highways. While Antony understood the message, it is time that a democratic India came to terms with the adversary at its doorstep in Ladakh.For the past four months, the Indian Army has been on the razor’s edge to defend the 3,488-kilometre Line of Actual Control (LAC) from China’s aggressive People’s Liberation Army (PLA) from pursuing its 60-year-old agenda of imposing the 1960 cartographical expansion map of the then Chinese Premier Chou En-Lai on the ground in Ladakh. The situation is critical as the Indian Army cannot hold back the PLA forever by staring at the adversary. And the fear is that one bullet could lead to a huge escalation on the LAC. It is not that the Chinese Western Theatre Commander Zhao Zongqi or his communist party boss Xi Jinping do not understand the consequences. It is Zhongguo, the Middle Kingdom, in action with its wolf warriors attributing the current friction to the undefined nature of the India-China border despite 15 years of Special Representative dialogue to sort out the issue and a plethora of agreements and protocols.Also Read: Resisting China in Ladakh | HT EditorialThe fact is that actions of paramount leader Xi Jinping such as consolidation of Hong Kong, sinification of Tibet, subjugation of Uighurs in Xinjiang and domination of the South China Sea all point to Fortress China, with India bearing the consequences in Ladakh. Clearly under the mask of the coronavirus disease that originated in Wuhan, communist party chief Xi is grabbing all that he wants to believe belongs to China and is not averse to use of military force to achieve his objective.Also Watch l After provoking at LAC, now China accuses India of violating consensus While ASEAN nations look to the US to shoulder the burden in the South China Sea against big brother China, India will have to carry the cross alone as it is surrounded by ally states of the Middle Kingdom.A weak US President after the November elections will confirm the rise of China as a global superpower with a divided Europe in no position to act against Beijing but only talk tall. The UN Security Council is the other talk shop.The many ramifications of India being a front-line state against China with three neighbours - Nepal, Pakistan and Myanmar - in a cosy relationship with Beijing is indeed disturbing. The Indian task becomes humongous with the Chinese United Front Work Department under XI Jinping making serious inroads into the country through individuals and organisations. This department, which reports directly to the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China, not only gathers intelligence but also ensures that potential critics of Beijing remain divided throughout the world. While the current government under Narendra Modi has the numbers in Parliament to deal with a resurgent Middle Kingdom, a weak government in Delhi on a future date will decimate the resistance to Beijing.From the current events in Ladakh, it is quite clear that China wants to activate the entire LAC and provoke India into a reaction or cow down in submission through use of psychological warfare, spreading discontent through its ideological brothers and finally, use of brute military force. Xi Jinping clearly believes in taking all that the past rulers of the forbidden city had fantastically claimed.Given the bleak scenario, it is important that the Modi government ensures that only the competent and meritorious are placed at the top in military, diplomacy, intelligence and a bureaucracy that works in silos. A democratic India is already handicapped in dealing with a single-agenda China and a seniority based leadership will only deepen the crisis. The last thing that India wants to see is a divided military that embarrasses the nation through leaks to settle personal scores, an intelligence organisation that prepares only reports and a diplomacy that does not have teeth. The saving grace is that some of India’s best minds are handling national security today at the apex level who respect rising China, but are not afraid of it.For long, India has been sitting on the fence without taking any stand on global issues. This was valid in the past as India did not have the heft or the gravitas to get the global ear. Hence, it would often not take positions as it had to take into account politicians who were still living in the erstwhile Soviet era or a Cold war side-show called the non-aligned movement. Coronavirus has changed the world forever. India must change or bear the consequences.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/chushul-aggression-is-part-of-china-s-plan-it-wants-to-provoke-india/story-Wez8dzZw1gHkzym27PocYM.html
02-09-2020||News||For strategic reasons, India must deepen defence ties with the US||Over the past 15 years, ties between India and the United States (US) have scaled new heights in almost every imaginable area. The annual bilateral trade in goods and services today is in the region of $150 billion. The two countries are now natural allies. And they conduct a fair number of joint military exercises annually. But despite this deepening partnership, trade in defence is a weak spot. As India celebrated the arrival of the first five of 36 Dassault Rafale jets from France late last month, in the middle of a border standoff with China in Ladakh, Washington’s strategic community and stakeholders in the defence industrial base watched with a mixture of dismay and disappointment. For the US government and the country’s defence industry, the Rafale induction at once offered a glimpse into the potential of the Indian defence market and the challenges they face in getting a foothold in the same market. India was expected to spend over $100 billion over the next decade. But now, post-Ladakh, the country will be forced to upgrade the defence systems more substantially. As part of a buying spree, earlier this month, the government announced buying equipment worth more than $1.16 billion. Prior to that, in the immediate aftermath of the border clashes, the government had approved a purchase of $5.55 billion worth of weapons and equipment.US companies have also made some inroads. In February, at the “Namaste Trump” event in Ahmedabad, Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi and President Donald Trump announced a $3.5 billion deal for India to buy US- made helicopters. That was a small step forward for the US. But the fact remains that when it comes to shopping for military equipment, India routinely prefers countries such as Russia and France. Why is India hesitant to buy US defence equipment in spite of having a good and growing strategic relationship? There are a number of reasons.One, India has not been a traditional customer of US military equipment. Once major modern defence equipment is inducted into the military, it requires continuous maintenance, which deepens ties with existing suppliers. Two, India has been traditionally reluctant to purchase US hardware due to the apprehension that Pakistan, which has a huge stockpile of American equipment, may be familiar with the weapons. So, the concern that the enemy in the neighbourhood may have intelligence on your weapons gives New Delhi pause.Three, unlike countries such as Russia, Israel and France, the US has a lot of congressional regulatory hurdles to cross before selling military equipment. The president has to notify Congress before selling major defence equipment, articles and services to other countries. Congress can block deals if it is not satisfied with them. In addition, the Arms Export Control Act prohibits defence manufacturers from selling sensitive technologies to certain countries. But none of these are insurmountable. It’s worth remembering that India and the US signed a civil nuclear deal 12 years ago, overcoming intense opposition from both US domestic political forces and the global non-proliferation community.In this case, all that the two sides have to do is to negotiate in good faith to put a plan and process in place to minimise obstacles, and maximise the opportunities for collaboration. With the strategic goals of the world’s two largest democracies more aligned than ever before, that should not be too difficult. With India hoping to meet most of its defence needs locally, as part of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan, the US and its companies are ideally positioned to be the best partners and allies for India in that campaign. This is the time for the US and India to create a defining defence trade relationship for the 21st century.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/for-strategic-reasons-india-must-deepen-defence-ties-with-the-us/story-R5cEmZfVjTvBwHIJ7PwMFM.html
02-09-2020||News||The myth of India’s low income tax base||In our country of 130 crore Indians, only 1.5 crore pay income taxes. Millions evade taxes,’ said Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi, while launching a platform for “Transparent Taxation” recently. The PM is not alone in this belief. Most political leaders, commentators and analysts share this conviction. This is one of the most perpetuated notions about India’s taxation. With the precipitous fall in India’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) and the gravest economic crisis in history, the income-tax payer base will only shrink further. The belief that India has very few taxpayers and millions of people routinely hide their income has been the underpinning for the country’s onerous income tax administration and a consequent mistrust of citizens. The income tax department has a Tom and Jerry relationship with taxpayers, indulging in an incessant chase of people under the conviction that nearly every Indian has large amounts of income stashed away in a secret corner.This belief was also the rationale for the 2016 demonetisation blunder, independent India’s worst economic policy decision. But this widely held notion is one of India’s costliest and most harmful myths. A small percentage of working Indians pay income tax because that is how India’s tax structure is designed and not because millions evade taxes.Only those that earn an income above the income tax threshold are liable to pay income tax. As per the current structure, only those earning more than around five lakh will effectively pay an income tax. How many Indians earn more than around Rs 5 lakh to be eligible to pay income tax? India’s per capita income is around Rs 1.4 lakh. That is, the average Indian earns less than a third of the income tax threshold and, hence, will not pay any income tax. India’s per capita income will fall further with the contraction in the economy.To put this in perspective, the average American (earning America’s per capita income) pays a 22% income tax, the average Chinese pays 10%, the average Mexican pays 15%, and the average German pays 14%. Most nations in the world have an income tax threshold that is lower than their per capita income. India is a complete outlier in this aspect.Further, India’s high-income inequality implies that only a small fraction earn more than the per capita income, and an even smaller fraction will earn thrice that amount to qualify for an income tax. Using inequality indicators derived from income tax data as a proxy, my estimate is that only 3% of working adults in India earn more than thrice the per capita income and fall under the income tax bracket. This is comparable to the rest of the world. Only 5% of working Americans earn more than three times their per capita income and 4% of British do so. When the income tax threshold is set much higher than the nation’s per capita income, it is only logical that a large number of people will be outside the tax bracket and not pay income taxes.Only 3% of working adults (aged 25-65) amounts to roughly 25 million people eligible to pay income tax. The number of working Indians that actually pay income tax seems to tally reasonably well with the number that will qualify to pay income tax. There should be no shock or awe that only such a small fraction pays income tax because India’s tax threshold is inordinately high for its levels of prosperity.Over the last three decades, India has raised its income tax threshold 13 times while China has raised it only thrice in the same period. Little wonder then that China’s share of income-tax payers grew from 3% in 1986 to 25% now while India’s has remained stuck at 3%. India’s tax policy has ensured that most Indians remain outside the income tax ambit. So, the incessant grumbling and insinuation that millions of Indians evade income taxes is facile. Is it possible that India’s per capita income is artificially low because millions hide their income? No. Even if millions of people hide their incomes from tax authorities, it will be accounted for in India’s GDP and per capita income data since they will use this hidden income to eventually spend on goods, real estate, gold and so on. It cannot be the case that millions of hoarders are stocking piles of currency notes in an attic every year without ever using it and even in that case, it will get accounted for in the “currency in circulation” data provided by the Reserve Bank of India.If one believes in India’s GDP, economic and per-capita income data, then one has also to accept that under the current income tax laws, only 3% of working Indians will qualify to pay income taxes. There is nothing spurious or suspicious about it. To be clear, there are surely income tax evaders in the country, but not tens of millions of them, as perceived.That a small fraction of working Indians pay income tax is a fact. But the corollary that millions evade income taxes is a myth. This myth has spawned a policy goal to unearth the hidden incomes of the phantom millions of tax evaders, which in turn led to foolhardy decisions such as demonetisation and has created a climate of mistrust, tax harassment and a heavy-handed state. The key to widening India’s income tax base is in keeping the income tax exemption threshold unchanged over many years, not in policing credit card bills, flight tickets, hotel stays and harassing the 3% of working Indians that fall within the income tax ambit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/the-myth-of-india-s-low-income-tax-base/story-UlN3FLG6NNzQilt09BSXnN.html
02-09-2020||News||In Pakistan-Saudi clash, India has an opportunity||In a surprising turn of events, Pakistan’s foreign minister Shah Mehmood Qureshi, in a very blunt and public statement, criticised Saudi Arabia over its aloofness and inability to conduct a meeting on Kashmir in the Organization of Islamic Cooperation (OIC). Qureshi pushed Riyadh, and the kingdom’s de-facto leader, Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman (MbS), to either lead the Muslim ummah from the front by standing up for Kashmir after India’s constitutional changes of August 2019, or let those Islamic countries act which are ready to confront New Delhi. A damage control trip to Riyadh by Pakistan Army and Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) chiefs yielded little results.The gulf between Pakistan and its long-term ally, Saudi Arabia, has been growing for some time. The major blow, arguably, for Islamabad, came when, in March 2019, India was invited as a guest of honour by OIC, and the late former external affairs minister, Sushma Swaraj, gave a strong speech to the grouping, as she led the delegation to Abu Dhabi. Pakistan attempted to stall India’s participation, but to no effect, and ultimately boycotted the speech by withdrawing its representation from the round table. The fact that Islamabad later on tried to create a parallel OIC, with Turkey, Malaysia and Iran, turned its differences with Saudi into a deeper political divide, leading to Riyadh withholding funds, pushing Pakistan to pay debts, and holding back the renewal of an oil supply pact.This moment was not sudden, but the culmination of the ever-growing ties between New Delhi and the Arab capitals in the backdrop of significant changes taking place in the region. These changes are led by a much more inclusive and outward-looking United Arab Emirates (UAE), and a change-driven Saudi Arabia under MbS. The churn is also driven by the need to break from the economic reliance on petro-dollars and an oil-related economic ecosystem, which has suffered recently with consumption and prices having crashed due to the pandemic.However, the geopolitical shifts and requirements of the Gulf do not necessarily feature Pakistan beyond a certain point, with its GDP still smaller than that of the Indian state of Maharashtra, where both the UAE and Saudi Arabia have plans to invest heavily in hydrocarbons and related infrastructure. While Riyadh had already designed major changes to its vision of how it intends to power the kingdom financially in the future, taking cues from its neighbour, the UAE and its successes, these shifts will largely rely on eastern economies, with India and China leading the pack.Even though Pakistan may publicly showcase China as its available alternative to everything, there must be concern in the country over this eventuality. It is important to remember here that China also has robust relations with the Gulf Cooperation Council region, including through its Belt and Road Initiative (BRI). It makes little sense for Beijing to aggressively internationalise Kashmir on behalf of Pakistan, especially in the Gulf, when supporting Islamabad’s stance on the same regionally in South Asia including via United Nations is more than enough for its requirements. China’s plan include involving Saudi in the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) itself, with a $20 billion plan which now stands at an interesting inflection point. Furthermore, CPEC is only a small part of BRI, which forces China’s hand to play its political deck of cards very carefully in the Middle East. Pakistan’s “absolutist” approach towards China may work against India. But the Gulf region is going to be a different play, and Islamabad’s lack of any hedging room against “iron brother” Beijing is going to become a challenge. This is an outcome of myopic State building, where an entire military, economic and political system is designed around one political and geographic agenda.As Pakistan and Saudi clash, New Delhi is in a comfortable position, having made strong political and economic inroads into the Gulf capitals, which realise realpolitik’s strong reliance on economics in modern diplomacy designs, giving a second-tier seat to issues such as religion. The Saudi–Pakistan kerfuffle is not a zero-sum game, and relations between the two will reconcile, led by deep defence and political roots. However, this relationship will look different from what it has historically been.This is the time for New Delhi to make some critical moves, such as rapidly clearing Saudi- and UAE-backed infrastructure projects, cementing itself as a premier investment destination for the Gulf to park its money. Pakistan’s attempt to make Kashmir a big issue in the Islamic world has failed, and the time is opportune for Indian diplomacy and economy to continue to capitalise on this in a restrained yet tactful manner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/in-pakistan-saudi-clash-india-has-an-opportunity/story-fSBET1bADKHpL9Mbq2mZrM.html
