14-09-2020||News||Transforming public administration||Every government since 1947, irrespective of political affiliation, has expressed frustration at the inefficiency of India’s vast bureaucracy and the maze of red-tape. Hundreds of committees have provided recommendations but the basic structure of public administration has remained unaltered. Therefore, it is no small matter that the government has embarked on an ambitious effort in recent weeks to reform the administration from its roots. A careful observer would have noticed that some of its key elements have already been introduced. Just weeks before he passed away in 1964, Prime Minister (PM) Jawaharlal Nehru had commented that his greatest regret had been his failure to change an essentially colonial administration. Prime Minister Indira Gandhi expressed similar sentiments in Parliament in 1966. “What India needs today is a revolution in the administrative system without which no enduring change could be brought about in any field”. The first Administrative Reform Commission was set up in 1966 under Morarji Desai but it became a victim of bureaucratic sloth. Its report of 20 volumes and 537 recommendations would be placed in Parliament in 1977. Desai had become PM by then, but he was unable to implement the recommendations. The reforms of 1991 freed many parts of the economy from direct government control. But the functioning of the bureaucracy went through few changes. Therefore, a second Administrative Reform Commission was set up in 2005 under Veerappa Moily. In the preface of a report tabled in 2008, Moily wrote of the bureaucracy, “It believes that its authority and legitimacy is derived not from the mandate of the people but from an immutable corpus of rules that it has prescribed for itself, without any correspondence to the needs and aspirations of the people”. This brief historical background is important in order to appreciate what is now being attempted. PM Narendra Modi’s government has been experimenting with reforms such as lateral entry and digitisation since 2014. However, the new effort has a totally different level of ambition. Here are measures introduced in the last six weeks: One, a national platform for recruitment. Almost all discussion around government recruitment tends to focus on that of the higher bureaucracy through Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) examinations. However, this thin layer of gazetted officers accounts for a tiny fraction of the civil service. The rest of the recruitment is done through a bewildering network of agencies and examinations. The lack of transparency not only makes it difficult for candidates but has led frequently to allegations of manipulation. The government, therefore, has announced the establishment of a National Recruitment Agency that will conduct a Common Eligibility Test across the country. For now, it will be a standardised first-level filter that will enable candidates to take things forward for final selection. The scores will be shared, so state governments, public sector and even private sector can use them as they deem fit. Two, compulsory retirement to remove the unfit. The health of any organisation is dependent on systematically weeding out deadwood. Unfortunately, entry into the Indian civil service is seen as a ticket to guaranteed employment till retirement. Interestingly, service rules have long included provisions that allow for civil servants to be compulsorily retired after he/she has completed 30 years of service and crossed the age of 50 (or 55 even if less than 30 years in service). This can be done under the Fundamental Rule 56(j)/(l) and Rule 48 of CCS (Pension) Rules. Around 320 senior officers have already been retired through this route since 2014, but the government reissued the guidelines on August 28 along with supporting Supreme Court judgments. It also provided basic criteria and procedures for using these provisions to remove officials “whose integrity is doubtful” or “found to be ineffective”. Three, rationalisation of autonomous bodies. The central government alone has hundreds of autonomous bodies — think-tanks, industry bodies, advisory boards and so on. These entities have a role in the delivery of public services but, inevitably, there is also a large amount of duplication and redundancy. It is rare that a government body, once established, will be wound up. For the first time, the central government is carrying out a comprehensive initiative to review the functioning of these institutions. In August, the ministry of textiles alone abolished the All India Handicrafts Board, Cotton Advisory Board, Jute Advisory Board, and the All India Handloom Board. Their duties have been transferred to other existing bodies for better delivery. Other ministries are also carrying out similar exercises. Four, taxpayers charter and faceless assessment. An important aspect of administrative reform is to improve the interface with the citizen. The tax department is an obvious place to start. In August, the PM announced a Taxpayers Charter that clearly lays out 14 rights for the taxpayer. The announcement of the Charter accompanied a shift to a system of faceless assessment where cases are to be assigned by an automated system. Together, it is hoped that the measures will significantly reduce persistent complaints of harassment and rent-seeking. The overall direction of the reform effort should be clear — to improve the inflow/outflow of personnel, rationalise processes, weed out redundant bodies and upgrade the interface with the citizen. The momentum is only going to accelerate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/transforming-public-administration/story-PZEGbLXbUIAR9Q3fQ0XmvJ.html
14-09-2020||News||How to reduce food, job insecurity in rural areas||After the Covid-19 outbreak, 66% of rural households fell short of cash for food. About 40% reduced their food intake. Only 7% of the returnee migrants are engaged in the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS). These are some of the findings of a survey of about 17,000 households in 80 districts (169 blocks) in 11 states, carried out by a coalition of 65 civil society organisations, called Rapid Rural Community Response to Covid-19 (RCRC). This shows that the State has to play a major role to play in reviving and rebuilding the economy.First, only half received the full entitlement of free rations three times — 42% received this either once or twice; 8% got nothing at all. This situation is stark in backward states such as Odisha, Madhya Pradesh and Jharkhand. Second, 66% reported that they were short of cash for food, and 51% for medicines. This shows the urgent need to revive public systems of service delivery in health and nutrition. Third, 40% of the households surveyed reported that they had reduced food intake — the proportion is higher in Bihar (53%) and Jharkhand (48%). The cumulative impact of this economic insecurity is resulting in widespread mental health issues. Three quarters (73%) of households expressed fear and anxiety about the future,in the case of Dalits, this was 77%. Three fifths of households (63%) are worried about sustained income and support to the family. More than one third (36%) have disturbed sleeping patterns and 33% are without social interactions. The fiscal stimulus provided so far is only a fraction of what was announced. Some specific recommendations that emerge from analysing the survey results are the following. One, launch a massive programme to rehabilitate returnee migrants. A significant proportion of the migrant workers were women (18%) and children (26%) – the rest 56% were male migrants. Almost one third of the rural households surveyed had one or more migrant workers (5,257 out of 17,032). Four-fifths of these households (83%) reported that migrants had returned to villages. Surprisingly, only 7% of the returned migrants are currently engaged in MGNREGS work, 28% are working as casual labour, and two-fifths of the households have no gainful work. When will they go back to their destination states or cities like Delhi, Mumbai, Ahmedabad, and Surat? The survey showed that only one per cent migrants have gone back to cities, 58% were hoping to return by November, and 42% were unsure when they would go back. There is now concrete evidence of the urban economy contracting. The government may not have any option other than to launch a massive programme of village entrepreneurship for returnee migrants. Second, allocate an additional Rs 50,000 crore for MGNREGS. A little less than one third of the households (31%) were engaged in MGNREGS over the last two months, which is a record, even as low participation is reported from Bihar (11%) and Jharkhand (15%). Households were engaged for 10 days a month on an average in the previous two months, with a variation of three to 14 days per month across states, which too is good news. However, it is alarming that 40% of households had not received full payment. There is going to be a huge surge in demand. Almost three-fourths of households (71%) want 15-plus days of MGNREGS work per month, from now on, for the next three months. As the demand for MGNREGS work is going to peak after the kharif season (October onwards), there is definitely a case for increased allocation to be made for the scheme. Third, extend the free ration scheme for six more months. The current effectiveness of the scheme is around 50%, which needs to be improved. Our survey results showed that in comparison to the Public Distribution System (PDS), the Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) schemes are far less effective. For example, only 63% women had Jan Dhan Yojana (JDY) accounts, out of which only 45% got Rs 1,500 ie Rs 500 three times. Four, revive and strengthen public systems of service delivery such as the Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS) and the mid-day meal (MDM) programme along with pension schemes. The areas we are talking about are already those with very poor health and nutrition infrastructure and so if these systems are not revived and strengthened immediately, it will have long term consequences in terms of poor welfare outcomes.Five, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) should give a directive to banks to extend a top-up loan of Rs 10,000 crore to Self-help Groups (SHGs), for they have once again emerged as a major support for rural households. Nearly one-fourth of households (22%) were seeking loans through SHGs or Joint Liability Groups (JLGs). Given the exemplary high repayment track record of SHGs, they should be a preferred option over individuals seeking loans from banks. According to National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development, there are 10 million SHGs, half of whom are linked to banks – five million SHGs with an outstanding of Rs 87,000 crore as on March 31,2019. If a top-up loan of Rs 20,000 per SHG at an average of Rs 2,000 per member, is extended to all these SHGs, it could go a long way in initiating livelihood activities at the SHG level. It is only if such measures are undertaken on a war-footing can Prime Minister Narendra Modi hope to win the vishwas (trust) of people in rural India.Binoy Acharya is founder, UnnatiVed Arya, convenor, RCRC Coalition, and director, Buddha Fellowship Program, SRIJANPratyaya Jagannath, research coordinator, RCRC Coalition, and managing director, KPS India Private LimitedPS Vijayshankar, co-founder, Samaj Pragati SahyogThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/how-to-reduce-food-job-insecurity-in-rural-areas/story-NFpJJLpKdaOBZskJHS7rqM.html
14-09-2020||News||India doesn’t have clear social distancing rules. Citizens must chip in||Compliance with social distancing guidelines is expected to decrease the spread, morbidity, and mortality related to any contagious disease. Social distancing, according to the ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW), is “a non-pharmaceutical infection prevention and control intervention implemented to avoid/decrease contact between those who are infected with a disease-causing pathogen and those who are not, so as to stop or slow down the rate and extent of disease transmission in a community”. As per the unlock guidelines issued on August 29, based on the directive related to social distancing, individuals must maintain a distance of six feet in public spaces. While social distancing is a widely-used term, Dr Maria Van Kerkhove of the World Health Organization has promoted the term physical distancing over social distancing. According to her, physical distancing is “keeping the physical distance from people so that we can prevent the virus from transferring to one another”. A close examination of all the unlock guidelines show that the need to maintain six feet distance in public spaces, while being an extremely important directive, is directing people to maintain physical distancing rather than social distancing. On May 10, when the total number of cases in the United Kingdom (UK) was 219,183, Prime Minister Boris Johnson outlined a conditional plan to reopen society. Accordingly, the public was allowed to enjoy parks and public spaces, and take unlimited outdoor exercise provided they were done only with members of the same household. Today when the doubling rate in the UK is 129 days, social distancing guidelines, among other things, suggest the following for people living in England: A maximum of six people can meet outdoors and indoors from multiple households; a household of more than six can gather in public or private, but not join members outside the household. While the physical distancing guidelines related to public spaces are well understood by people in India, adherence to the guidelines is another question. The guidelines on large public gatherings and congregations are clear — they are prohibited, as was observed during the Ganesh Charturthi and Moharram festivals. But, with the easing of restrictions and phased reopening, what social distancing rules are people to follow related to their movement to other households for, presumably, avoidable social interactions? One can argue that all are expected to wear masks and practise social distancing, but the definition of social distancing is six feet distance. A recent research study finds that silent transmission of Covid-19 during the pre-symptomatic and asymptomatic stages was estimated to be responsible for more than half of the overall transmission. Pre-symptomatic Covid-19 patients can transmit the infection, unaware they’re carrying the virus, by leaving their infected droplets on surfaces. Further, a team of researchers from Princeton University and the University of Montpellier, while calculating infection probability during casual conversations in a social setting (across the table over lunch or parties) found that in a poorly-ventilated space, the infection risk of speaking with a superspreader, without a mask, even for less than one minute, is high even with a three-metre separation. A caveat: This paper is yet to be peer-reviewed. So, in the absence of detailed-and-clear social distancing guidelines, can we not make our own citizen-formulated ones? Learning from other nations, can we not, for instance, say we will physically meet members from another household only for essential purposes, like care-giving, and forsake physical interaction for all other avoidable purposes? Access to technology has ensured we don’t get disconnected from our families and loved ones during the lockdown. Maybe our lives, for a few months more, will be dependent on mediated-technology. But aren’t we capable of these small sacrifices? For the numbers to come down, all of us must do our bit. Payal S Kapoor is associate professor Area Chair-Marketing FORE School of Management, New DelhiThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/india-doesn-t-have-clear-social-distancing-rules-citizens-must-chip-in/story-4Uk5gXfH39slz2oHTbx7EL.html
14-09-2020||News||For a meaningful monsoon session||The 18-day monsoon session, which starts today, will test the robustness of India’s parliamentary system. The government wants to get the legislature to sign off on 40 bills during the session. Its legislative agenda will put pressure on Parliament to pass several bills every day. And with the two Houses meeting in shifts, there will be limited time for discussions. The Lok Sabha can sit late into the evening. But the Rajya Sabha Members of Parliament (MPs) will have to finish their deliberations by lunch to make room for the Lok Sabha.There are no weekend breaks during the session, so the presiding officers, MPs and parliamentary staff are in for a physically gruelling time. MPs will also face the challenge of debating while being seated with their masks on. On the positive side, the session may see fewer disruptions with MPs spread across Parliament. On the other, discussions on audio and video links may reduce the liveliness of the proceedings.The session will begin on a sombre note. MPs will pay their tributes to former President, Pranab Mukherjee, who served five terms in the Rajya Sabha and was elected twice to the Lok Sabha. During his long parliamentary innings, he served as leader of both Houses and chaired several key committees. There will be a moment of silence in memory of three sitting Rajya Sabha MPs and one Lok Sabha MP H Vasanthakumar, who succumbed to Covid-19 last month. His last parliamentary intervention was to declare Covid-19 a national disaster. Parliamentary attention will then shift to the business at hand. In the Rajya Sabha, one of the first orders of business will be the election of the Deputy Chairman. The position fell vacant after Harivansh completed his term as MP earlier this year. He is now back in the Rajya Sabha. The Opposition is fielding Rashtriya Janta Dal MP Manoj Kumar Jha against him. While Harivansh is expected to win easily due to depleted Opposition numbers, the election will be an early test of Opposition coordination in the session. In the Lok Sabha, the constitutional position of the Deputy Speaker has been vacant since last year, the longest in the history of Parliament. Opposition parties are demanding an election be held for this position.Since there is no Question Hour and a curtailed Zero Hour, Parliament’s focus will be on law-making. Government plans to pass 11 ordinances and 12 new bills. The presiding officers of the two Houses will have to decide on which bills to take up for debate and which should be examined by a parliamentary committee.The legislative focus will be on four broad areas: Agriculture, labour, health and finance.Four agriculture-related bills will up for discussion during the session. Two of these are ordinances that create a framework for contract farming and a politically-contentious one which allows farmers to sell their produce outside of mandis. Another one is restricting the use of stock limits on farm produce to periods of sharp price rise. And the last one is regulating pesticide usage. Then there are three labour-related bills which were being scrutinised by a parliamentary committee. These bills are about the health and safety of workers, their social security and relations between them and their employers. The committee has submitted its report on these bills, clearing the way for their discussion in Parliament.In the health sector, first, there is an ordinance which provides punishment for harming health care workers who are performing their duties during the pandemic. Then there is a bill which prohibits commercial surrogacy that was passed by the Lok Sabha last year. A select committee of the Rajya Sabha gave its recommendations on this legal measure, and it will again come up for discussion before the Upper House. The government is also planning to get parliamentary approval for a bill regulating assisted reproductive technology. Another legislative proposal on the Rajya Sabha’s list is about extending the time limit for terminating pregnancies. During the inter-session period, the government promulgated three ordinances related to finance. The first one extends the time limit for compliances under taxation and other laws. The second provides companies protection from bankruptcy proceedings. And the third brings the management, audit and winding up of co-operative banks under the control of Reserve Bank of India. The government will also be discussing its additional budgetary requirements during the session.While legislative business will be a priority, other items on the agenda for Parliament will be to discuss the government’s handling of Covid-19, the border dispute with China, the plight of migrant labour and the country’s economic situation. The cyclone in Odisha and West Bengal and the floods in different parts of the country are other issues that may come up.The number of bills passed in the session will not be the only measure of its success. The spirit in which the government engages in the parliamentary debate will also be reflective of it. Will it only be defensive of its actions or be open to suggestions and criticism? Will the Opposition play the role of an alternative executive by recommending better ideas, or merely be adversarial? And finally, Parliament’s rigour in scrutinising the government’s legislative proposals will determine the strength of India’s parliamentary system.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/for-a-meaningful-monsoon-session/story-NunEesGCrGwsQQi8Lf8DOP.html
