17-09-2020||News||What the Israel-UAE-Bahrain accord means for India and the world||The peace agreement between Israel, the United Arab Emirates (UAE), and Bahrain is a historic moment that brings together the most advanced states in West Asia for the good of humanity. Combining forces and finding common ground has never been more urgent than now, in the midst of a pandemic, and the Abraham Accord is set to generate immediate results. This historic agreement also brings opportunities for India, which enjoys strong bilateral relations with these developed and thriving economies. India will benefit greatly by expanding its cooperation in many areas including health care, energy, agriculture, cyber security, regional security, technology, water and more.The leaders of Israel, the United States (US) and the UAE hailed the agreement as a “historic diplomatic breakthrough that will advance peace in the Middle East”, “chart a new path”, and “unlock the great potential in the region”. India’s ministry of external affairs praised the agreement between Israel and the UAE, defining both as “key strategic partners of India”. The scope for successful collaboration among the three countries is huge. For example, the health ministers of both Israel and the UAE have already agreed to cooperate on health issues, particularly on the coronavirus. Meanwhile, Israel and India have also been cooperating on joint research and development for rapid testing of Covid-19, as well as new technologies to combat the pandemic. Developing together, and subsequently utilising the significant relative advantage of India in manufacturing, can bring promising results for the sake of humanity and the whole world, as well as harmonising with the great vision of Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi of “Making in India, for India, and for the world”.While business delegations and a student exchange programme are being planned, the UAE and Israel have also committed to working together on medical research and pharmaceuticals, collaborating particularly in the development of treatments and vaccine trials for Covid-19. Apex National Investment has signed a memorandum of understanding with Israel’s Sheba Medical Center, establishing Israel as a major destination for medical tourism from the UAE. Both countries have suffered under the ongoing coronavirus crisis, and it’s, therefore, fitting that the first field of cooperation is in health care.Like India, Israel and the UAE are young countries that have managed to develop dynamic, thriving economies in a few decades. Both the UAE and Israel will gain from the expansion of trade and commercial ties. The Israeli ministry of economy and industry has estimated that Israeli exports to the UAE could jump to $500 million a year, and that Emirati investments in Israel could reach $350 million a year. The cyber-security, medical, financial, and communications industries are expected to benefit in particular from the newfound expansion of trade and investment between the two countries. Given that both countries are strategic partners of India, we can imagine the promising potential that is embedded in this exciting peace agreement.These initiatives and collaborations represent a bit of what is to come in the normalisation of relations between Israel, the UAE, and Bahrain. The citizens of all three countries will quickly see their lives enriched as a result of this agreement, paving the way for increasingly more countries in the region to realise the vast potential that exists in making peace with Israel. As economic opportunities in the region arise, they will also expand beyond the immediate region to benefit our friends in India.The challenges we are facing today know no borders, and it is essential that we combine our capabilities for the benefit of all of our citizens. We call on all those following this historic moment to voice their support for the agreement. This historic peace agreement opens a new era of peace and prosperity for the whole of West Asia, India, and the world.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/what-the-israel-uae-bahrain-accord-means-for-india-and-the-world/story-SHrfuRXQbkhaYGbc16ZcKJ.html
17-09-2020||News||An alternative jobs and skill strategy for India||The British described India as an ocean of trees. This tree cover was nurtured by village and tribal communities. To organise the drain of India, as Dadabhai Naoroji put it, the British destroyed these community organisations and took over forest land as State property. Only Goa was spared. Initially, the Portuguese attempted to break down village communities, but stopped when faced with substantial losses in land revenue. Goa, therefore, remained an ocean of trees till 1961, attracting hordes of tourists. To this day, the gavkari, or “communidad” organisation continues to bravely hold on to Goa’s natural heritage. Following Independence, India’s ruling classes stuck to the same colonial mindset. Nevertheless, the country’s deep-rooted democracy resulted in the enactment of several pro-people measures, such as the 73rd and 74th amendments to the Constitution establishing Panchayat Raj in 1992, the Right to Information Act in 2005 and The Scheduled Tribes and Other Traditional Forest Dwellers (Recognition of Forest Rights) Act, 2006 (FRA). All of this helped in restoring rights. Gadchiroli, Maharashtra’s easternmost district, has the highest level of tree cover in the state at over 70%, safeguarded by its predominantly tribal population. It is the one district where the Community Forest Resource (CFR) rights and provision of FRA have been implemented properly, with thousands of villages being assigned lakhs of hectares to manage minor forest produce sustainably. This was the result of a combination of capable tribal leadership and competent and honest officials. CFRs have been granted from 2009 and have led to skill development and community-based employment. Before the Act was in place, young women in Gadchiroli had a taste of the government’s ill-conceived skill development plan when they were trained to become air hostesses. On completing the course, no airline was willing to employ the women. Pachgaon, a village in neighbouring Chandrapur district, has been assigned CFR rights over 1,000 hectares. The gram sabha asked each family to submit five rules regarding management of forest resources and other civic affairs. These were then discussed in a meeting over two days and 115 rules were unanimously accepted. The entire community now abides by these 115 rules. These include regimes regarding the harvest of bamboo and other minor forest produce, regular patrolling of CFR areas and sharing of responsibility in sorting and auctioning bamboo. The villagers used to earn to a fair income plucking tendu leaves for contractors earlier. But this involved setting fire to parts of the forest, which the people deemed undesirable. The tendu trees are now producing an abundance of fruit. This fruit is in high demand and, in the long-run, the village may become economically better-off selling the fruit rather than plucking the leaves. The wages for bamboo harvest were three times what contractors paid. Nevertheless, they managed to make a net profit of Rs 35 lakh from the sale of bamboo in 2015. This has been invested in organising forest and village development works which provide year-round employment. Prior to being empowered by the CFR rights, many villagers used to migrate all the way to Gujarat to earn a living. Now, no one leaves the village. The lessons from villages such as Pachgaon must reach all other CFR-holding villages. To kick off such a process, Maharashtra’s tribal development department sponsored a special five-month training programme in the field at Mendha-Lekha, the first village to win CFR rights in 2009. I was associated with this programme in which 24 young men and three women were trained. Following the training, they have formed groups of villages, processing and marketing minor forest produce, while diligently maintaining accounts and paying taxes.Or take Kudumbasree, a network of community-based women’s self-help groups from Kerala, which provides a different kind of experience in strengthening community organisation. This network is engaged primarily in activities related to food production, processing and restaurants. Large tracts of farmland are fallow in Kerala because the owners find the costs of chemical inputs and labour prohibitive. Kudumbasree groups take such lands on lease and make them productive. They can afford to do so because, without alternative employment, their members accept lower wages. They don’t use chemical inputs, thereby reducing the cost of cultivation and taking pesticides out of the ecosystem. As a result, they are successfully in practising organic cultivation.Empowering communities through organisation and resource rights is a very effective and desirable route to both employment generation and skill development. India needs to think of an alternative economic paradigm to prevent the distress we have seen this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/an-alternative-jobs-and-skill-strategy-for-india/story-wkgAv5EE5jHmVfEZf6KirJ.html
17-09-2020||News||New Delhi’s salience in the Afghan matrix||After months of delay and wrangling, the intra-Afghan peace talks finally began in Doha, Qatar, last week. These talks between the Afghan government and the Taliban delegation saw envoys and organisations from over 15 countries participating, underscoring the wider regional and global ramifications of these negotiations. Yet, the challenges were clear from the opening remarks of the main interlocutors. Abdullah Abdullah, chairman of the High Council for National Reconciliation, was categorical that while “the legitimate demand of our people and the goal of peace is to end all forms of war and violence through political means,” they wanted a constitutional system in the country that would preserve democracy, elections, women’s rights, minority rights, rule of law, human and civil rights. In essence, he underlined the need to preserve the achievements of the past two decades. Mullah Baradar, Taliban’s deputy leader, tried to strike a conciliatory tone but the group has been clear about its goal: Preserving religious values and striving for an Islamic system.The United States (US) has left the choice of the political system to the Afghan government and the Taliban but has not been shy of articulating its preferences. Mike Pompeo, the US secretary of state, suggested “that protecting the rights of all Afghans is indeed the best way for you to break the cycle of violence”, even as he warned that the “choices and conduct” during the negotiations will affect both the size and scope of future US assistance. Earlier this year, in February, the Donald Trump administration decided to reduce its military footprint in Afghanistan; this is likely to go down to 4,500 troops by November. Though Washington is not convinced that the Taliban has weaned itself off completely from Al Qaeda or that it can be a trusted partner in ensuring peace in Afghanistan, there is a wider political consensus in the US on the need to bring troops back home. For Trump, claiming that he managed to conclude an “endless war” would be a significant policy success to highlight in his beleaguered re-election campaign.So, in more ways than one, the preference matrix of key players in these negotiations is not in sync, posing fundamental challenges to both the process and the outcome. For the Afghan government, it is essential that violence by the Taliban should cease before any substantive talks on power-sharing can begin. But for the Taliban, their ability to unleash dramatic violence is a major leverage that they would like to exploit in political negotiations. But the Taliban also seem to recognise that today’s Afghanistan is not the one they controlled from 1996 to 2001. Afghanistan’s nascent democracy has thrown up new voices, new actors and new aspirations. Reports of the Taliban engaging with China to build infrastructure after a US withdrawal is an indicator that governance is now one of the priorities which cannot be ignored. And this is where India comes into the picture. Despite the pessimism in some quarters that India has lost it all in Afghanistan, ground realities are more complex. India’s approach is also evolving in line with the changing strategic environment. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar’s remarks at the start of the intra-Afghan talks in Doha conveyed India’s priorities even as they subtly underlined its reservations. For New Delhi, it is imperative that “the peace process must be Afghan-led, Afghan-owned and Afghan-controlled, respect national sovereignty and territorial integrity of Afghanistan, promote human rights and democracy, ensure interest of minorities, women and the vulnerable, effectively address violence across the country.”India’s primary concern emanates from a perceived Pakistani victory in managing to bring the Taliban back to political power in Kabul, thereby energising Islamist extremists in South Asia to target India. India’s regional security environment could be further undermined if the Taliban let Pakistan use Afghan territory for gaining strategic depth vis-à-vis India. Then there is the China factor. Given its close ties with Pakistan, Beijing would like to ensure that the Taliban sever their ties with Uighur extremists in Xinjiang. In exchange, China might emerge as the key economic benefactor of a Taliban-dominated Afghanistan, nudging Pakistan to bring the country into the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor. These are significant challenges and New Delhi must be cognisant of such pressures. But it should also remain alive to new possibilities and alignments. India’s role as Afghanistan’s largest development partner cannot be easily dismissed; it also remains the most popular country for ordinary Afghans. New Delhi has strong ties with not only the US and Europe, which will be critical for Afghanistan’s economic reconstruction long after foreign military forces leave, but also with neighbours such as Russia and Iran, key for Afghanistan’s strategic autonomy. The Pashtun question which divides Pakistan and Afghanistan also gives New Delhi significant leverage. It is, therefore, not surprising that the Taliban have been signalling their intent to engage with India. They seem to get the salience of New Delhi in the Afghan matrix much better than many in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/new-delhi-s-salience-in-the-afghan-matrix/story-yFuhS2A1hPjK7cjrQoUNsI.html
17-09-2020||News||Boosting women’s entrepreneurship and economic leadership||W omen’s representation in leadership positions has been on a rise in recent years, but not enough to close the economic opportunity gap. The World Economic Forum (WEF)’s Global Gender Gap Report 2020 reveals that it will take almost a century to achieve full parity at the current pace. The disparity is particularly striking in India. It ranks 112 out of 153 countries on the overall Global Gender Gap Index. The Covid-19 pandemic seems to have applied brakes in several areas where workplaces were becoming more diverse as well as areas where access to resources across gender had become more equitable. The pandemic has hit the most vulnerable the hardest, making these disparities worse. Oxfam India has estimated the economic loss from women losing their jobs during this pandemic at nearly $216 billion. In these trying times, we need to transform challenges into opportunities and accelerate the shift towards both greater inclusion of women in the workforce and women-led entrepreneurship. Covid-19 is far from over. Work from home is now widely prevalent. Here is an opportunity to deploy technology as the new leveller to strengthen women’s economic participation. It is heartening to see 34% of Indian IT workforce is women. They could be further provided access to new skills and blended technologies to move seamlessly in the rising sectors on digital platforms — telemedicine, e-learning and e-commerce.As the Sustainable Development Goals demonstrate, adopting the gender lens properly and creating a culture to provide more opportunities to women requires collaborative and concerted action. We need to do the following. One, accelerate women’s entrepreneurship. Currently, women constitute around 14% of the total entrepreneur base in India. We must accelerate both the quantity and quality of entrepreneurship through capacity- building in areas such as branding and marketing as well as facilitate financial and institutional linkages for business support.Two, increase women in the workforce at all levels of management and leadership. Women account just 14% of leadership roles and 30% of professional and technical workers. We have not made much progress in terms of leadership roles at the chief executive officer (CEO) level. India has the third-lowest rank in the Asia-Pacific in CEO representation (2%), the second-lowest rank for female chief financial officer (CFO) representation (1%). Ranked 23 globally, India’s female representation on boards increased by 4.3% over the past five years to 15.2% in 2019. The global average is 20.6%. Three, empowerment of women at the micro-enterprise and grassroots levels. Women-owned enterprises can generate over 50–60 million jobs by 2030. Financial reforms must come with a gender lens as micro-enterprises led by women face specific issues that require interventions such as digital and financial literacy programmes, handholding for reliable market access, and a greater network of Self Help Groups (SHGs). In the 2019 Mastercard Index of Women Entrepreneurs, India ranked 52 among the 58 countries. We must aim to be in the top 10 over the next few years. There are some developing economies which are already are outperforming their more developed counterparts. Women business-owners as a percentage of all businesses account for 38.2%, 37.9% and 36% respectively in Uganda, Ghana and Botswana. With equal access to education, health and financial resources, there is no reason why India cannot reach one of the highest levels of women’s entrepreneurship.The road ahead is not easy, and the pandemic has not been gender-neutral. Long -existing inequalities and social disparities have sharpened on gender lines and in access to resources including food, education and health care. Industry must use its position to work with all stakeholders in championing and “empowering the greater 50%”. For it is only where women work that economies grow rapidly and countries prosper.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/boosting-women-s-entrepreneurship-and-economic-leadership/story-uneUWvKDjNBkyFFSIpZSNL.html
