21-09-2020||News||Agri-reforms will empower farmers. The Opposition is wrong | Opinion||The unprecedented 23.9% decline in the gross domestic product (GDP) in the first quarter of 2020-21 is serious. But gross value-added numbers show that agriculture grew by a respectable 3.4%, suggesting the rural economy will drive recovery. The Centre promulgated three agriculture-related ordinances in June, which were a break from the past when pernicious interventions by governments were justified in the name of farmers’ welfare. The supply chain in requires massive investment from warehousing, cold storage, transportation to infrastructure in retail distribution. This mega push can come from private sector alone. Agriculture has also been moving from shortages to surplus and the policy on essential commodities from 1955 is bound to be reworked and limitations removed for benefits of scale of operation and value addition. These reforms were similar to the 1991 moment for the economy and were hailed by experts. The Committee of State Ministers, in-charge of Agriculture Marketing to Promote Reforms emphasised the need to promote competition in the interest of the farmers and so had the of the Standing Committee on Agriculture in its 62nd report. This had the support of almost all parties. With the government replacing the ordinances by Acts of Parliament, the Congress, some other political parties, farmer unions affiliated to them, and representing the interests of the middlemen are raising a hue and cry. A misinformation campaign has been let loose. The most sinister of them is that the government will do away with the minimum support price (MSP), even though the Centre said that there is no question of dismantling the MSP mechanism. The Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) and Mandi Act are in the domain of states, and, therefore, there is no question of the Centre amending it unilaterally. Only inter-state commodity trade is in the Centre’s domain. The existing APMC infrastructure is not being dismantled; MSP as an administration mechanism implemented through the local mandis and procurements done by state governments will continue as usual. The Narendra Modi government, on Monday itself, announced the increase in MSP of many commodities. Though the purpose of MSP was to provide an assured floor price to the farmers, over time, it became the ceiling price. With the new Act on facilitating trade and commerce of produce, the government is making it legally and institutionally possible for farmers to explore the possibility of selling at an even higher price, while retaining the safety net of MSP. With competition from private markets, APMC markets will no longer enjoy the monopoly and the farmer will benefit from better services. As far as the argument of farmers losing their land to corporates is concerned, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Ordinance, 2020 Act, talks about an agreement on the farm produce only, and not about the land. The Act has further safeguards for farmers on land; in case of loss of produce, farmers alone will get the benefit of insurance compensation and the infrastructure and equipment used at the farm land has been protected as belonging to the land owners. Even the dispute resolution within the Act has been delegated at the district level, with the formation of district boards, and farmers will not have to run from one court to the other to get justice. The lack of a responsible Opposition has been the bane of Indian politics since 2014. Anything that the Modi Government does must be opposed by the Congress. The Congress, in its recent election manifestoes, had asked for dismantling APMC, but we have abstained from doing so. The legislations will give options of new markets, attract private investments to build infrastructure, help in better price discovery, enabling information dissemination mechanism, and provide price assurance to the farmers. With the prime minister himself at the forefront and the Bharatiya Janata Party amplifying his messages, there should be no doubt about the future of farmers welfare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/agri-reforms-will-empower-farmers-the-opposition-is-wrong-opinion/story-R5d9E5rIkcvFseXpal5VgI.html
21-09-2020||News||The scientific enquiry on Covid-19 immunity||In eight months since the onset of Covid-19, over 47,000 scientific papers dealing with the disease have appeared in journals. This translates into about 5,875 papers per month. It took 20 years to have the same number of publications on the discovery of the human genome. This rate of scientific enquiry is unprecedented. More than half the publications deal with the key features of innate (pre-existing, ready to attack) and adaptive (more potent and desired) arms of the immune response, and towards ascertaining the long-term B- and T-lymphocyte immunological memory against the Sars-CoV-2 virus. The data generated has been helpful in forecasting the outcome of the disease, and developing effective strategies to control it. Five takeaways from these immunology-focused studies deserve mention. First, on the antibody response. The initial burst of immunoglobulin M (IgM) and immunoglobulin A (IgA) response that appears around day seven of the onset of symptoms starts to decline from week four onwards, reaching near zero levels soon after. The much-needed immunoglobulin G (IgG), which also acts as the virus neutralisation antibody, starts to appear by day 10, reaching a peak between weeks five and eight and then slowly goes on the decline, three months onwards. The short-lived antibody response, however, is no cause for concern. Antibody responses almost always decline following the initial phase of infection because most of the B-cells that secrete them or their precursors (called plasma cells) are short-lived. Yet, there is a small-but-effective pool of long-lived B-cells that maintain immunological memory to the same pathogen. These are enough to produce highly potent neutralising antibodies to protect against subsequent infection.The second is the question regarding the titer of antibodies — a test that measures the quantity and variety of antibodies — and whether this relates to the initial viral load or disease severity. This is relevant given the observed broad Covid-19 spectrum, with mild or asymptomatic disease on the one hand, and the more severe variety on the other, with overlapping clinical symptoms in between. A study published in Nature revealed that antigen burden is indeed a major driver of the magnitude of the immune response. The highest titers of neutralising antibodies were noted in recovered patients with more severe disease. Those with mild or asymptomatic disease ended up having antibodies with not only low titers but also low viral neutralising activity against the receptor binding domain (RBD) of the viral S protein. The third important issue relates to the cellular arm of the adaptive immunity to Sars-CoV-2, critical both for vaccine development and for instituting infection control measures. Like antibodies, the magnitude of T-cell response, encompassing both helper and killer T-cells, is also discordant among individuals and influenced by disease severity. Early on in the infection, virus specific T-cells start to appear reaching their peak within two weeks. However, their numbers start to decline in six to seven weeks by which time IgG antibody reaches its peak. Like antibodies, Sars-CoV-2 specific memory T-cells are generated across the disease spectrum, which remain in circulation in small but sufficient numbers for long periods, and mount a more aggressive recall response on further exposure to the same virus or during vaccination. They also exhibit antiviral cytokines and cytotoxic activities which are necessary for preventing recurrent severe infection. This might explain why re-infection in coronavirus is not common, barring a couple of anecdotal reports of mild illness. The fourth is the issue of “cross-reactive immunity” between different coronaviruses since this will have a bearing on planning vaccination strategies. Using multiple experimental approaches, a paper published in Cell identified memory T-cells in almost 100% of patients recovering from Covid-19. These investigators were able to detect Sars-CoV-2 reactive helper T-cells in 40%-60% of healthy, unexposed individuals, suggesting cross-reactive T-cell recognition between the circulating “common cold” coronaviruses and SARS-CoV-2. Whether these cross-protective T-cells can prevent SARS-CoV-2 infection remains to be determined. But experts argue that any degree of cross-protective coronavirus immunity in the population could have an impact on the overall course of the pandemic and the dynamics of epidemiology for years to come. The fifth question is how and when herd immunity can be achieved and at what cost. It literally means at least 50% of the population needs to get immune to the virus, either through overcoming natural infection or through vaccination, so as to stop a further outbreak. Past experience with flu epidemics indicates that natural herd immunity is usually attained with two to three cycles of infection with seasonal strains. Covid-19 does not fall in the same category because with an infection fatality rate of 0.3-1.3%, this could translate into several-fold more infections and at least 10-fold more deaths which would be a high price to pay. Vaccines alone are the safest way to achieve herd immunity to the virus. Until that happens, our safest bet is to adopt the MHD social vaccine — mask, handwash and social distancing — in our daily lives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/the-scientific-enquiry-on-covid-19-immunity/story-wlgB3uD2ohMSGbLiQPTwKP.html
21-09-2020||News||At the UN, the quest for new multilateralism||Come September, the United Nations (UN) shifts gears. Open spaces at its premises give way to tightly-configured booths for backroom diplomacy. The General Assembly Hall becomes a platform for public diplomacy. This combination of hushed conversations in backrooms and loud proclamations from public platforms attracts more than 100 Heads of State and governments. These dual forms of diplomatic endeavours make the “High Level Week” or the “Leaders’ Week” unique. While the rhetoric of the “General Debate” makes for media headlines, it is individual and group meetings, away from the limelight, that add ballast. This year, things will be different. As the UN marks its 75th anniversary, all events will be largely virtual. After much speculation that United States (US) President Donald Trump may use the physical pulpit, he too, like most leaders opted to send a video. This is awaited with some trepidation. There is talk of announcements that could trigger a crisis at UN, as the US seeks to enforce “snap back” UN sanctions against Iran. The schedule provides for a 75th anniversary commemorative event on September 21. The “General Debate” begins on September 22 and ends on 29. A summit on biodiversity is on September 30. The 25th anniversary of the World Conference on Women (Beijing + 25) is on October 1. With concerns aplenty, a virtual talk fest is in store. However, the usual allure will be missing.This at a time when global deaths from Covid-19 infections are comparable to that of major wars and unemployment is worse than at anytime since the Great Depression. The virus has exposed the failings of existing global arrangements. Some say that a globalised world without effective global platforms has made the virus more lethal. After all, the spread was accelerated by global connectivity. The adverse impacts have caused economic slumps, stoking States to focus internally, reducing international cooperation. Existing geopolitical tensions have exacerbated and global mistrust worsened. The global order is infected, with no vaccine for its ills is in sight. Historically, acute disorder provides opportunities for change. Crises catalyse states to rise above inertia, myopia, and narrow self-interest. The Peace of Westphalia in 1648; the Congress of Vienna in 1815; the Treaty of Versailles in 1919; and conferences at Bretton Woods and San Francisco in the 1940s followed crises. No peace-time crisis, even a “crisis like none other” that we now confront, has changed a global order. Hence, diplomats have banked on the resilience of the existing system and kicked the can of reform down the road. The 75th anniversary declaration, agreed amid the pandemic, provides for the UN Secretary General to “report back before the end of the 75th session of the General Assembly with recommendations to respond to current and future challenges.” Sometime in 2021, Secretary-General Antonio Guterres will take a stab at suggesting a recalibration of the multilateral system in keeping with the session’s goal of, “The future we want, the United Nations we need”. For now, he will share the concerns and findings of consultations with civil society groups across the globe, including a global online Pew survey. The statements of leaders will be inputs for him to reflect on in future submissions.From an Indian perspective, this comes when Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi, is displaying more of an internationalist orientation than our leaders have exhibited since the end of the Cold War. During the 50th anniversary of the UN in 1995, the then PM PV Narasimha Rao spent five days in New York. He met five or six leaders bilaterally, and spoke once for the specified five minutes. In contrast, at last year’s “Leaders Week”, the PM maximised bilateral meetings, principally with those who he had not engaged otherwise and had several pluri-lateral and multilateral conversations on global issues including the climate crisis, health, Sustainable Development Goals and cyber-security. For the first time, an Indian PM hosted an event at the UN to commemorate an Indian — Mahatma Gandhi. Some among us view the UN from an India-Pakistan prism. For example, after PM Imran Khan’s diatribe at the General Debate last year, Pakistani diplomats made statements against India in various General Assembly forums during the course of the year, without a single supportive statement from anyone else. The UN is a platform to address global issues. The global order is faltering in addressing transnational dangers of conflict, terrorism, proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, pandemics, climate crisis, cyber-security, and poverty. Advocating change of a status quo in turmoil, is a global good. Yet, there is no coherent vision of change. For India, the principal utility of the session is the opportunity to articulate the why, what, when and how of our conception of “Reformed Multilateralism” and work with others on reinvigorating multilateralism. We need to be beneficent in contributing to rejuvenate multilateralism, before we can be beneficiaries of it. Else, international cooperation and the global public good that we take for granted will decline, and, we will all be poorer for it.Syed Akbaruddin served as India’s Permanent Representative to the United Nations in New York The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/at-the-un-the-quest-for-new-multilateralism/story-O8E5fGEIybCOkwIpKy2uUK.html
