23-09-2020||News||BJP’s one market for farmers is a myth | Opinion||Should India’s farmers have the economic freedom to market their produce to whoever and wherever they want at an agreed price? Unequivocally yes. Will the government’s recently-legislated farm bills grant this freedom to farmers? The answer is an unequivocal no.Let us understand this through the example of Prashant Gawande, a small farmer in Akola, Maharashtra, with a three-acre farm. He has just harvested soyabean and needs to sell his produce quickly so as to repay the debt taken to produce the crop. The nearest Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC) market yard for Gawande is 25 km away where licenced traders will bid for his produce, starting with the Minimum Support Price (MSP) declared by the government. He can sell his produce to the highest bidder — whether a government procurement agency or a private trader — and collect his money.Ninety-four per cent of India’s farmers sell their produce for non-MSP prices. Official data disclosed in Parliament showed that, in the last season, only 1.24 crore paddy farmers and 44 lakh wheat farmers got the MSP. The reason is that farmers do not have an ecosystem with multiple, easily accessible and competitive markets. The painful conclusion is that, notwithstanding the operation of APMC Acts for a few decades, only a fraction of the farmers get MSP. The Bharatiya Janata Party government has passed new farm sector laws which it claims will establish a “One Nation, One Market” for agriculture produce and liberate farmers. “One Market” is a myth. Can you imagine Gawande in Maharashtra loading his soyabean crop onto a tractor and driving to Madhya Pradesh because he has learned that he can get a better price there! Or imagine Gawande pulling out his computer, log into the e-commerce market place, and complete a digital sale and purchase!! Neither the current APMC system nor the “One Nation, One Market” dream will serve the small farmer. Eighty-five per cent of farmers are small farmers, holding one hectare or less and with little surplus to sell in the market. He/she can be lured to a market only if there are, multiple, easily accessible and competitive markets in the area where the farmer produces his/her crop.Under the new laws, anyone can now operate outside the auspices of APMC and procure from farmers without the need for a licence or payment of a fee. Most traders will then abandon APMC and set up their own informal markets outside to avoid APMC transaction costs and regulations. Lack of activity will eventually lead to the shutdown of APMCs which means that the bidding process to establish the highest price for the produce will also vanish. Independent traders will collude to set up many fragmented thin markets for procurement which will lead to price gouging of farmers, most of whom are small and do not have collective bargaining powers. This is how the APMC and MSP systems will be slowly dismantled. When the MSP system is dismantled, farmers lose a very important price signal that can help them get better prices. The experience of Bihar after the Nitish Kumar government repealed the state’s APMC Act bears out this apprehension. Bihar farmers get a whopping 30% less as the price for their produce than the notified MSPs.If the government was indeed keen on retaining the MSP system, as it claims, then why is it not so stated explicitly in the new laws? Nothing would have been easier than to add a clause that a private transaction would be valid only if the price paid “is not less than the MSP”. MSPs play a vital role as an emitter of a price signal. The farmers face a real risk of exploitative prices without a proper price signal and an assured market place to sell their produce. Today, farmers neither have access to multiple markets nor the bargaining power to negotiate fair-price contracts.Farmers have seen through the falsity of the government’s propaganda and that is why farmers across the country are on the streets protesting against these laws.The objective to provide economic freedom to farmers through more choices of buyers is a laudable pursuit that the Congress supports fully. Farmers such as Gawande can be liberated only when they have access to multiple markets where different buyers compete for their produce and offer the highest price.Renowned agriculture expert Dr MS Swaminathan and scholars such as Sudha Narayanan and Mekhala Krishnamurthy have argued that the number of APMC market yards per square km is inadequate and severely inhibits market access for India’s farmers. Recognising the severe limitations of the APMC system, the Congress party’s manifesto for the 2019 elections clearly laid out the need to establish thousands of markets “in large villages and small towns with adequate infrastructure and support” as a pre-condition to free trade in agriculture procurement. The key word is markets, not One Market.Six years of the Narendra Modi government has revealed one clear pattern of governance — to confuse and conflate lofty goals and objectives with ill-thought-out policy execution. Eliminating black money was a lofty objective; but demonetisation as a policy to achieve that was disastrous. Ease of inter-state trade was a laudable goal; a plethora of Goods and Services Tax (GST) rates was not the way to achieve it. Flattening the Covid-19 curve was a worthy pursuit, but a draconian lockdown was imprudent. Similarly, giving economic freedom to our farmers is a desirable goal, but the hastily-passed farm laws will not help achieve this. P Chidambaram is a Member of Parliament and the former finance minister. Praveen Chakravarty is a political economist and a senior office bearer of the Congress||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/bjp-s-one-market-for-farmers-is-a-myth/story-woADapDkiZS7aWU6lJn1CK.html
23-09-2020||News||How politics eclipsed the Emmy Awards||Actress Uzo Aduba wore a tee-shirt with the name “Breonna Taylor” imprinted on it, when she accepted an Emmy for Outstanding Supporting Actress in a Limited Series or a Movie for Mrs America, and said, “Let’s change the world!”. Breonna Taylor was a Black woman who was fatally shot in her own home in Kentucky by the police during a drugs’ investigation. Through the night on Sunday, in almost every acceptance speech, A-list TV stars sat in their homes and spoke of hope, for a better America, and, in turn, a better world.In many ways, the 72nd Annual Primetime Emmy Awards was nothing like ever before. Held in the middle of a global pandemic, host Jimmy Kimmel spoke to an empty auditorium. This while stars of the night sat in their homes with their families, friends and co-stars, and while fans across the world watched what became a night of passion, power and politics.Recognising that Covid-19 is changing the world as we know it, the winners did their best to make the most of the night, not just to triumph in their own glory, but to speak of and condemn the injustices exacerbated under the leadership of Unites States (US) President Donald Trump.From slamming Trump’s move to downplay Covid-19, to highlighting police brutality and racial inequality (which reignited the Black Lives Matter movement), the winners emphasised the need for TV fans everywhere to register to vote in the upcoming presidential elections, trust the US Postal Service and elect a government that promotes “inclusivity, love, compassion and kindness”.Major stars such as Mark Ruffalo (who won for I Know This Much Is True), Regina King (Watchmen), Dan Levy (Schitt’s Creek), Jesse Armstrong (Succession) and Anthony Anderson (the star of Blackish, who presented an award), spoke with passion and conviction for their various causes. Ruffalo, whose speech made headlines, said, “And if we have privilege, we have to fight for those who are less fortunate and more vulnerable — and that’s what is great about America, our diversity… We are stronger together when we love each other and we respect each other’s diversity.”King, said of police brutality, “The cops still haven’t been held accountable. She represents just decades, hundreds of years of violence against Black bodies – Breonna Taylor does.”, while wearing a tee-shirt honouring Taylor. This was reminiscent of award-winning author and journalist Ta-Nehisi Coates’ bestseller Between the world and me, in which he wrote of the fear of inhabiting a Black body in America.Even comedian Kimmel acknowledged that in hosting the event, he had the platform to do more, and so, he did. In his opening monologue, he said, “Of course we don’t have an audience. This isn’t a MAGA (Make America Great Again) rally, it’s the Emmys.” This was a dig at the president, who held a rally even as the pandemic required people to take precautionary measures such as physical distancing. The US has so far seen over six million cases of Covid-19 and over 200,000 deaths.What’s important about the political overtones that eclipsed the awards show was that these actors have been actively involved in various movements, both on and off screen: Be it the BLM movement, the climate crisis or Covid-19. Their passion-fuelled speeches only proved their resolve.But make no mistake. This messaging isn’t new. Awards shows in the US have been overtly political, more so since Trump came to power in 2016. This includes the Emmys. They have questioned government policies, highlighted gross inequalities in American society and stood up against oppressive structures that they claim destroy American culture. In this regard, it wasn’t surprising. But with rising intolerance, White supremacy and exclusionary right-wing populism on the rise, and with the US presidential election only months away, they pleaded with American viewers to make their vote count, to ensure that the November elections are a beacon to build an inclusive America.But it is often observed that Trump thrives in an environment where the elite attacks his presidency. He claims that the Hollywood A-listers are out of touch with “real America”. Therefore, the overt politicisation of the awards show can galvanise his campaign and his core base, which thrives in an “us vs them” narrative. All in all, the awards show was a signal fire, an attempt for viewers everywhere to dispel Trump’s idea of America and vote him out. The elections in November will prove if the messaging of influential artists from the thespian community can effect change. Time will tell. marika.gabriel@htdigital.inThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/how-politics-eclipsed-the-emmy-awards/story-WrAr2ajg9zCjat3hG5IlIO.html
