01-10-2020||Chandigarh||With 20 deaths in last 24 hours, death toll crosses 1,400 in Haryana||With 20 deaths in the last 24 hours, the death tally crossed 1,402 on Thursday. Also, 1,313 fresh Covid cases were reported which took the overall tally of cases to 1.29 lakh. There were 1,228 deaths (87.6 per cent) of people having co-morbidities in the state so far while 174 (12.4 per cent) didn’t have any other complication.  There were 969 males (69.1%) among the total casualties.  In the last 24 hours, there were four deaths in Panipat, three in Hisar, two each in Faridabad, Rewari and Fatehabad and one each in Gurugram, Ambala, Karnal, Jhajjar, Nuh, Sirsa and Yamunanagar.  A 66-year-old male from Sector 31 and 73-year-old man from Sector 29 in Faridabad died of Covid.  A 71-year-old man from Ambala city was also among the casualties. He was suffering from hypertension and was on oxygen support.  The maximum fresh cases came from Gurugram at 208 followed by 164 from Hisar, 163 from Faridabad, 94 from Sonepat, 87 from Rewari and 82 from Panchkula. District-wise data  District              Cases          Deaths                               Faridabad         19,982         221                             Gurugram         20,921         174                               Sonepat            8,355           44                               Rewari              5,797            29                             Ambala             7,969            92                              Rohtak              5,937            63                               Panipat             7,357            81                              Karnal               7,375            107                               Hisar                 6,351            64                             Palwal               2,633            16                             Panchkula        6,074            86                         Mahendragarh  3,467            7                               Jhajjar              2,524            25                               Bhiwani           2,794            36                           Kurukshetra   5,684             91                              Nuh                 1,123            23                              Sirsa                3,807           63                               Yamunanagar  4,240           73                        Fatehabad       2,368           38                              Kaithal             2,470           40                       Jind                  2,059          27                            Charkhi Dadri    625             2                              Total         1,29,912         1,402||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/with-20-deaths-in-last-24-hours-death-toll-crosses-1-400-in-haryana-149488
01-10-2020||Pradeep Sharma||Covid-19 crisis: Over 400 HSVP employees shown the door||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 1The economic distress caused by ongoing Covid-19 pandemic has taken toll on the livelihood of more than 400 data entry operators and clerks with the Haryana Shehari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) showing them the door.The sacking of these employees, employed through outsourcing at different offices of the HSVP, the urban development arm of the Haryana Government, is set to adversely affect HSVP’s working as a majority of the employees were working on data compilation of properties in different urban estates across Haryana.While the order of the HSVP Chief Administrator exempted those employed through government-controlled HARTRON and those having stay orders from the Punjab and Haryana High Court from sacking, the officers concerned were asked to relieve the other staff with effect from September 30.Meanwhile, throwing their lot behind the sacked employees, Subhash Lamba, president of the Sarv Karamchari Sangh, flayed the “double standards” of the HSVP. “While the staff employed through HARTRON and those having stay from HC have been retained, the other outsourced staff has been sacked which is legally untenable,” he asserted.He demanded immediate intervention of Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, who is also HSVP chairman, in the matter as he had repeatedly been urging the private sector not to retrench their staff while several government undertakings were resorting to such “unfair practice”.It is not for the first time that a government undertaking has resorted to retrenchment during coronavirus crisis. Earlier, Haryana Tourism had retrenched 424 employees while Kurukshetra Development Board had terminated 64 employees.HighlightsOver 400 data entry operators shown the door by HSVP.Sacking likely to affect government functioning as majority of them were engaged in updating data of properties.SKS seeks intervention by CM, who is also HSVP Chairman.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/covid-19-crisis-over-400-hsvp-employees-shown-the-door-149484
01-10-2020||Sanjay Yadav||Wrestler nabbed for murder of national-level woman Taekwondo player||Gurugram, October 1A former Haryana wrestler, wanted in murder case of 26-year-old national-level woman Taekwondo player, was arrested by Gurugram police along with an associate from Rajasthan Wednesday night.Sarita was shot dead last year after the accused allegedly barged into her home at Bhora Khurd village when she refused to accept, what he announced as his final proposal of marriage with him.The police had declared reward of Rs 25,000 on his head and was wanted for murder, molestation, hurt, threatening, snatching and a case of extortion of Rs 50 lakh. Police have taken the accused on remand and are questioning them.The accused identified as Jhajjar’s Bamdola village resident Sombir Gulia barged into Sarita’s home and shot her after she refused his proposal.Sombir, a wrester of Satpal Akhara, Bardhana village, had been allegedly stalking Sarita for a long time and had been pressuring her to marry him.She had approached police in August last year and an FIR was also registered but the accused was not arrested or even detained while she was constantly taking the matter with police highlighting the danger and harassment she faced.It was the second time on November 12 last year when Sombir landed at her home in the wee hours and asked her ‘finally’ if she will marry him or not pointing a gun at her chest.Sarita refused and he allegedly shot her. He fled from the spot when the neighbours gathered. The victim was rushed to a private hospital where doctors declared her brought dead. An FIR was registered but he evaded police and a reward of Rs 25,000 was announced.The police finally nabbed Sombir along with his associate identified as Jitender Nayak from Dausa in Rajasthan.“The accused confessed to the crime. Soon after he took to criminal activities and threatened a mobile shop owner in Bilaspur for extortion of Rs 50 lakh on September 26. He had also snatched a mobile phone in Kapdiwas area. Sarita had also filed a case of molestation against him. We are now trying to recover weapon which was used by him in the murder of taekwondo player,” said Preet Pal Singh Sangwan, ACP, Crime.About SaritaSarita had represented her district in taekwondo tournaments six times.A national-level taekwondo player and represented the state for four times.She had completed her diploma in physical education and PHD also.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/wrestler-nabbed-for-murder-of-national-level-woman-taekwondo-player-149469
01-10-2020||Chandigarh||As monsoon withdraws, Punjab & Haryana receive deficient rainfall||The south-west monsoon has withdrawn from Punjab and Haryana, leaving the two states with deficit rainfall, the meteorological department said on Thursday.Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, also received 7 per cent less rains, an official of Chandigarh's Meteorological Department said here.With the withdrawal of monsoon from the grain bowl states of Punjab and Haryana on September 30, the weather department recorded scanty rains by 17 per cent and 14 per cent in the two states, respectively.Between June 1 and September 30, Punjab received rainfall of 387.6 mm against a normal of 467.3 mm, leaving a deficit of 17 per cent.In comparison, the neighbouring state of Haryana received 376.1 mm rains against a normal of 438.6 mm, leaving a deficit of 14 per cent, a MeT official said.Chandigarh received 791.1 mm rains as against normal of 846.5 mm, with the deficit being 7 per cent, he said.Notably, the country received above-normal monsoon rainfall during the four-month season for the second consecutive year and recorded the third highest precipitation in the last 30 years, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) had said on Wednesday.The monsoon season in India officially starts on June 1 and lasts till September 30.Among the places in Haryana which received scanty rains between June 1-30 period included Panchkula, which saw 322.2 mm rains as against normal of 925 mm, leaving a big deficit 65 per cent.Rohtak witnessed 215.9 mm of rain against a normal of 502 mm, with the deficit being 57 per cent. Ambala saw 547 mm rain against a normal of 850.4 mm, leaving a deficit of 36 per cent, the MeT official said.However, according to the official, places including Sirsa, Kaithal, Karnal, Fatehabad, Gurgaon and Kurukshetra had excess rainfall of 43 per cent, 35 per cent, 29 per cent, 2 per cent, 1 per cent and 9 per cent, respectively.Hoshiarpur in Punjab saw 265.6 mm rain against the normal of 674.8 mm, leaving a deficit of 61 per cent, the weatherman said.Mansa recorded 136.4 mm rain against 301.1 mm, less by 55 per cent, while Tarn Taran had 167 mm rain against normal of 315.1 mm, less by 47 per cent. Amritsar witnessed 380.9 mm rainfall against normal of 506.9 mm, leaving a deficit of 25 per cent, according to the official.Ludhiana saw 337.3 mm rain against normal of 486.2 mm, less by 31 per cent, while Patiala had 392.6 mm rain against normal of 563.1 mm, a deficit of 30 per cent.However, Punjab's districts which had more than average rainfall during the June 1-30 period included Faridkot, which saw 75 per cent rains in excess, while Muktsar recorded 34 per cent more rains, the MeT official added.—PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/as-monsoon-withdraws-punjab-haryana-receive-deficient-rainfall-149435
01-10-2020||Rohtak||USA-based Indian comes to aid of Rohtak school for underprivileged children||Raj Aggarwal, a USA-based philanthropist of Indian origin, has come to the aid of the students and volunteers of Gandhi School, an informal school for underprivileged children in Rohtak.“I read a news report in the online edition of The Tribune about Rukhsar, daughter of a migrant worker, who has completed her schooling and wants to pursue a course in nursing, but her parents cannot afford that. I also read about Sumit, a youth who operates auto-rickshaw to continue his studies and also teaches small children at Gandhi School,” Aggarwal told The Tribune over the phone.Upon reading the story, Aggarwal decided to sponsor the education of Rukhsar and sent an amount of Rs 2 lakh for her studies and for the other students and volunteers of Gandhi School. He also sent a financial aid of Rs 50,000 for Sumit.“I appreciate The Tribune for highlighting the plight and struggle of children like Rukhsar and Sumit. I feel that such children should get a good education and financial constraints should not become an impediment in their studies,” he stated.Naresh Kumar, the founder of Gandhi School, has also expressed gratitude towards Aggarwal for extending a helping hand towards the students and volunteers of the school.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/usa-based-indian-comes-to-aid-of-rohtak-school-for-underprivileged-children-149425
01-10-2020||New Delhi||Haryana: Congress MLA meets Delhi metro authorities, requests 'change in railway route'||Neeraj Sharma, Congress MLA from Faridabad, on Wednesday met Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) authorities, and urged for the inclusion of Payali Chowk in the list of stations on the proposed Faridabad-Gurgaon metro railway route.During the meeting, Sharma apprised the officials, that the present route, connecting Bata Chowk and Aravali Golf Club, leaves large areas of the NIT and the Ballabgarh assembly constituencies completely uncatered.The MLA batted for redrawing the route via Batta Chowk and Pyali Chowk, which would cater to three assembly constituencies: NIT, Ballabgarh and Badkhal.The three constituencies have a high-density population, and have high-percentage of workers, and low populace of the in the low-income group, especially in NIT.Also, these areas are dotted with a large number of units of micro, small, and medium enterprises, and are added in the category of the cottage industry.The traffic has increased manifold, intra-Faridabad and Faridabad-Gurgaon. Also, the government's departments and institutions including Civil Hospital ESIC hospital have located the area.After the meeting, Sharma said, that the authorities have assured to look into his representation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-congress-mla-meets-delhi-metro-authorities-requests-change-in-railway-route-149396
01-10-2020||Aditi Tandon||Farm bills: Rahul Gandhi to hold tractor rallies in Punjab, Haryana from Oct 3-5||Tribune News ServiceNew Delhi, October 1The Congress is working to step up its political offensive against the recently passed farm laws with former party president Rahul Gandhi set to hold tractor rallies across Punjab and Haryana from October 3 to 5.Gandhi is proposed to reach Moga, Punjab, on October 3, from where he will lead a tractor rally starting from Badrikalan village till Jattpura village in Ludhiana district. On October 4, Rahul Gandhi will hold another rally that will commence in Sangrur and go up to Samana in Patiala.The final rally by Gandhi will likely take place from Patiala to Pehowa in Haryana, from where Rahul Gandhi will enter Haryana for a one-day political programme.Sources in Haryana said he would hold the rally at Kaithal and another major programme at Pipli before returning to New Delhi.Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar on Thursday said the nuances of the plan were under the works but main halts of tractor rallies had been worked out in Punjab where Chief Minister Amarinder Singh will welcome Gandhi.The state Congress also hopes the disgruntled elements to put up a show of unity and for estranged ex-minister Navjot Singh Sidhu to join Rahul’s rallies.In Haryana, the state Congress will hold demonstrations tomorrow against farm bills in all assembly segments.“The farmers of Haryana will welcome Rahul Gandhi who has been raising their voice since day one. While the BJP is unwilling to listen to farmers, Rahul Gandhi ji will be on ground zero to stand with the farmers in their struggle for existence and livelihood,” Haryana Congress chief Kumari Selja said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farm-bills-rahul-gandhi-to-hold-tractor-rallies-in-punjab-haryana-from-oct-3-5-149382
01-10-2020||Chandigarh||Vijai Vardhan is Haryana Chief Secretary||The Haryana Government has appointed Vijai Vardhan, a 1985-batch IAS officer, the new Chief Secretary. He succeeds Keshni Anand Arora, who superannuated today.Vardhan, who was currently posted as Financial Commissioner Revenue (FCR) and Additional Chief Secretary (Revenue and Disaster Management), will have a tenure of over one year as the Chief Secretary as he is due to retire on November 30, 2021.Vardhan is the second senior-most officer in Haryana bureaucracy with Sunil Gulati, a 1984-batch IAS officer, currently posted as Chairman, Haryana Minerals, being senior to him.Sanjeev Kaushal will replace Vardhan as FCR, while Rajeev Arora, ACS (Health), will also hold the charge of ACS (Home).Alok Nigam, ACS (Forests and Wildlife and Medical Education and Research) has been given additional charge of the Public Works Department.Devendra Singh, currently holding the charge of ACS (Irrigation and Water Resources and Public Health Engineering), will also hold the charge of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/vijai-vardhan-is-haryana-chief-secretary-149159
01-10-2020||Karnal||School celebrates foundation day||Covid special newsletter releasedPanipat: Vice Chancellor Prof Sushma Yadava on Wednesday released the Covid special newsletter titled 'Subhashini' of Bhagat Phool Singh Women's University at Khanpur Kalan. Prof Yadava said the Covid special edition of the newsletter reports various initiatives and steps taken by the university during the lockdown period. Steps like university's contribution to the Prime Minister and Chief Minister Covid care fund, participation of staff in rehabilitation camps, donation of medicines, food and clothes to the needy persons, awareness activities organised by students, preparation and distribution of masks by the staff and conferences and seminars on Covid are some of the salient features of the newsletter.Faculty development programmeKurukshetra: The online faculty development programne organised by the department of computer applications of the National Institute of Technology (NIT), Kurukshetra, on the subject of 'Semantic intelligence applications and perspectives' concluded on Wednesday. This programme, which lasted for five days, included Dr Raghav Mutharaju from IIIT-Delhi, Dr Sumit Bhatia from IBM Research Lab, Dr Hiranmay Ghosh and Dr C Anantaram from TCS Research Lab, Dr Maya Ramanath from IIT-Delhi, Dr P Sreenivasa Kumar and Dr Gandham Phanikumar from IIT-Madras, Dr Asha Subramaniam from Semantic Web India, Dr Arindam Chatterjee from Wipro Limited, Dr Uma Sankari SS from ISRO-Kerala and Dr PJ Philip, former professor of NIT-Kurukshetra.Online technical interview contestHisar: The coding club of the GJUST, namely “GJUST Coders”, under the mentorship of the training and placement cell conducted an online technical interview contest. Industry expert Pankaj Goyal, working as a software development engineer in a Bangalore-based company, interviewed 42 students of the club having at least 200 score in coding platforms like HackerEarth or HackeRank. The interview was based on programming and coding skills and problem-solving logic. Rashmi Garg and Saurabh from BTech CSE third year got the first and second position, respectively. Nitin Bansal and Kanak from BTech CSE fourth year got the third and fourth positions, respectively.2-day book exhibition organisedKarnal: A two-day book exhibition was organised by the library committee at the RKSD College. Library committee convener Geeta Goyal said, "About 800 new books related to topics like competitive, motivational and personality development have been exhibited." Principal Sanjay Goyal, who inaugurated the book exhibition, said to promote reading among students, the college library had been updated with the widest range. Thousands of research books and magazines are also available with online digital facilities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/school-celebrates-foundation-day-149288
01-10-2020||Chandigarh||6-month extension for DGHS||The state on Wednesday granted extension to Dr Suraj Bhan Kamboj, Director General, Health Services (DGHS), for six months in view of Covid. Health (Secretary) Rajeev Arora confirmed it. Besides, the NHM staff will continue to work at their present place of posting for another three months. Those on temporary deputation in other health institutions will also have to stay at their current place of posting. TNSAmbala1 held in investment scamThe police arrested Randhir Singh of Ambala in connection with a multi-crore investment scam, in which at least 300 investors were duped of over Rs 50 crore on the pretext of handsome returns. With this, the arrests in the case reached three. A local court remanded him in five-day police custody. TNSWoman nabbed for assault The police arrested a woman on the charge of assaulting and threatening a minor boy. She was later released on bail. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/6-month-extension-for-dghs-149283
01-10-2020||A telecom company has started digging up the tiled pavement in Sector 9 of Ambala City for laying wires. Earlier||No let-up in  road digging in Ambala City||Dusty road troubles localsThe link road from Narwana to Amargarh village via Frain and further to Samain is extensively damaged and with the passage of time a lot of dust has accumulated on it. The non-stop traffic on this route results in clouds of dust throughout the day and night. Residents and shopkeepers, who reside on both sides of the road, are falling sick due to dust. The authorities should build this road on priority. Ramesh Gupta, NarwanaStalling Army convoy bad moveThis refers to news titled ‘Army convoy stalled in Ambala’ on September 26. It was strange and disgusting to learn that not only an Army cavalcade was blocked but pro-Khalistan slogans were raised during a protest by farmers in Ambala. Notably, even the senior police officers also failed to persuade the protesters to allow the Army convoy on emergency duty to pass through and it had to take the wrong side of the highway with the police help. No one has the power to stall the Army’s movement. Let the MHA take due note thereof and act. SK Gupta, PanchkulaNeed for digital screens at bus queue sheltersThe Panchkula administration should initiate the process to install digital display boards called passenger information system (PIS) to enable commuters to get real-time information on arrival and departure of buses at bus queue shelters across the city. The pending construction work of the new bus queue shelters should also be completed at the earliest. Ramit Bagga, PanchkulaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-let-up-in-road-digging-in-ambala-city-149282
01-10-2020||Ravinder Saini||Stubble burning: Which dept will take action against violators? No clarity||Tribune News ServiceRohtak, September 30There is uncertainty as to which department will take punitive action against farmers for burning paddy stubble, as the Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) has been learnt to be “running away” from its duty of lodging cases against violators.In a communiqué sent to the Director General (Environment) on August 7, the Additional Chief Secretary (Agriculture) had said, “Now, it has been decided that the punitive actions i.e. lodging FIRs issuing challans and other enforcement measures under the Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1981 will be taken by the Environment Department.”Rohtas Singh, Deputy Director (Agriculture)New DirectivesAs per new directives, the Agriculture Department will spread awareness among farmers against stubble-burning, while the HSPCB will take punitive action against violators.Sources said the Environment Department later wrote to the HSPCB, asking it to take punitive action against erring farmers.Since burning of crop residue was a violation of the Act, issuing challans and lodging FIRs against violators were the responsibility of the HSPCB, the sources said, adding the board could not run away from its duty.The HSPCB, however, denied having the authority to lodge FIRs against farmers.S Narayanan, member secretary, HSPCB, told The Tribune: “The board does not have the power to lodge cases. Only government departments can do so. As for issuing challans, the NGT has already passed an order that only district-level committees, comprising officers of the Revenue and Agriculture Departments, can impose fine on farmers.”He also cited shortage of staff as another reason for the HSPCB’s inability to take action. “We have only one officer in every district.” Narayanan said the HSPCB had written to the Director General, Department of Environment, in this regard. “The state government has been urged to take a decision.”Rohtas Singh, Deputy Director (Agriculture), said the department would spread awareness among farmers against stubble-burning, while the HSPCB would take punitive action against violators.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/stubble-burning-which-dept-will-take-action-against-violators-no-clarity-149118
01-10-2020||---||120 stubble-burning incidents in five days||Karnal, September 30With paddy season coming to an end, stubble-burning incidents have been reported from across the state in spite of a ban on it.As per the Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB), 120 incidents of active fire locations (AFLs) were recorded by the Haryana Space Applications Centre (HARSAC) September 25 and 29.This puts in question the claims of the Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Department of keeping a vigil on farmers.The department has divided the state into three categories — red, orange and green — based on the AFLs recorded during the last paddy season. There are 332 villages in the red zone and 673 in the orange zone.The HSPCB data shows that Karnal is leading the tally with 29 AFLs followed by Kurukshetra (23), Kaithal (17), Ambala (14), Fatehabad (14), Yamunanagar (8), Hisar (7), Jind (3), Panipat (2), Panchkula (1), Palwal (1) and Rewari (1).“The HARSAC has recorded 120 AFLs. The figure is yet to be confirmed,” an HSPCB official said.S Narayanan, member secretary, HSPCB, said: “The target is to keep the number of stubble-burning incidents lower than the last paddy season. I have advised all Deputy Commissioners to ensure the availability of eco-friendly harvesting equipment in villages where stubble-burning was reported last year.” He added the district authorities would take action against farmers violating the ban.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/120-stubble-burning-incidents-in-five-days-149119
01-10-2020||---||Homoeopathy students warn of indefinite fast||Rohtak, September 30 Students of the Bachelor of Homoeopathic Medicine and Surgery (BMHS) course at a Rohtak-based homoeopathic college have decided to intensify their agitation. The students had been struggling for more than 10 months to get their admissions restored and sitting on dharna on the premises of Pt Bhagwat Dayal Sharma University of Health Sciences for 16 days. The students observed a token fast on Wednesday and threatened to go on indefinite fast if their demand was not met within a week. The admission of 49 students of the 2016-17 batch studying at JR Kissan Homoeopathic Medical College and Hospital in Rohtak were abruptly cancelled last year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/homoeopathy-students-warn-of-indefinite-fast-149120
01-10-2020||Rohtak||Rohtak dental college starts online OPD||With people scared of visiting hospitals in view of the Covid pandemic, the Post Graduate Institute of Dental Sciences (PGIDS) on Wednesday launched an e-Sanjeevani OPD to provide free online consultation to people suffering from dental problem. Dr OP Kalra, Vice Chancellor, Pt BD Sharma University of Health Sciences, Rohtak, launched the service during a virtual programme. To avail the service, patients need to get themselves registered on the e-Sanjeevani mobile application. Once registered, they can get the prescription from doctors from Monday to Saturday between 9 am and 4 pm. The service will be unavailable during the lunch time from 1 pm to 2 pm. Dr Sanjay Tiwari, Principal, PGIDS, said: “The e-Sanjeevani OPD is the need of the hour since people fear contracting Covid if they visit hospitals. This facility has shown good results in other states.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rohtak-dental-college-starts-online-opd-149121
01-10-2020||---||Illegal structures demolished in 2 Rohtak colonies||Rohtak, September 30  A team of the District Town Planner on Wednesday demolished two illegal structures and 28 damp-proof courses in two unauthorised colonies developed near the outer bypass on Ladhaut Road and Rohtak-Hisar Road here. Rohtak District Town Planner Mandeep Singh Sihag said the land owners were served two notices asking them to demolish  the illegal structures and damp-proof courses  on their own, but they failed to do so hence the demolition drive was carried out.  “The sewerage system and electric poles installed in the colonies have also been uprooted, while an FIR has also been recommended against the land owners,” the District Town Planner added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/illegal-structures-demolished-in-2-rohtak-colonies-149122
01-10-2020||---||Radaur ex-MLA Shyam Singh Rana quits BJP over farm Acts||Chandigarh/Yamunanagar, September 30While the “anti-farmer” tirade of the Opposition against the BJP-JJP government rages on in Haryana over the three farm Acts of the Centre, it has claimed the first casualty for the BJP with former chief parliamentary secretary (CPS) Shyam Singh Rana resigning from the party to stand by the farmers.In his letter to state party chief OP Dhankar, Rana said keeping in view the farmers’ problems, he was resigning from all party posts and also from the BJP to support their cause.Shyam Singh Rana, Former Chief Parliamentary SecretaryCan understand farmers’ problemsI was a farmer and can well understand the problems being faced by them in selling their paddy at this time. The government knew that the paddy arrival season was approaching. So, arrangements for paddy procurement should have been made in advance so that farmers didn't face any problem.“I have not yet decided to join any political party. But, I will soon meet my supporters to decide future course of action,” Rana said.Dhankar, not willing to merely “accept” the resignation, went a step ahead to underline the “respect” bestowed upon the former CPS by the party.Accepting Rana’s resignation, Dhankar did not forget to mention that the party gave him a ticket from Radaur, made him CPS and even appointed him the district president (from 2009 to 2014). Since Rana had stated his intention to stand with the farmers, whose interests were being overlooked by the BJP, the state chief said the party was with the farmers and every grain would be procured at the MSP.In a personal attack on Rana, Dhankar said the former CPS did not extend support to the party candidate, Karan Dev Kamboj, in the Assembly elections held in October last year. Maintaining that Rana’s personal ambition stood in the way, Dhankar said the former CPS was left with no option but to resign.While Dhankar indicated that Rana’s departure was no loss to the party, sources said bringing up Kamboj’s defeat was an attempt at downplaying the resignation.Rana said before introducing the new system of agriculture, the Centre should have taken farmers into confidence. He said he was a farmer and could well understand the problems being faced by them in selling their paddy at this time.“The government knew that the paddy arrival season was approaching. So, arrangements for paddy procurement should have been made in advance so that farmers didn’t face any problem,” Rana added.In the 2019 Assembly elections, the saffron party had denied Rana a ticket and fielded Kamboj from Radaur who lost the seat to Congress’ BL Saini.The Opposition has already turned the heat on the ruling BJP-JJP government in the state for the three farm Acts. Six former MLAs, including Rana, had recently met and expressed their intention to stand with the farmers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/radaur-ex-mla-shyam-singh-rana-quits-bjp-over-farm-acts-149123
01-10-2020||Saurabh Malik||Haryana Police in dock for sending back accused required to be arrested||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, September 30The Haryana Police are in the dock for sending back an accused required to be arrested in an alleged Rs 30 crore VAT evasion case. Taking cognisance of the matter, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has asked the Director General of Police (DGP) to explain the circumstances in which the accused was sent back when he was required to be arrested.The direction by Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan came on a petition filed against Haryana and another respondent by Govind for grant of anticipatory bail in connection with an FIR registered on July 11, 2019, for cheating, forgery and other offences at the Chandni Bagh police station in Panipat district.The matter was placed before Justice Sangwan’s Bench after his anticipatory bail plea was dismissed by the Panipat Additional Sessions Judge. When the petition was filed in the High Court, interim protection was not granted to the petitioner considering the seriousness of allegations. The state was directed to file an affidavit on the petitioner’s role.Justice Sangwan expressed surprise that the Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP), State Crime Branch (H), Madhuban, had filed an affidavit, stating that there were serious allegations against the petitioner. He was called to join the investigation on September 23 and certain admissions were made in his statement. From the investigation, his role was found to be highly dubious and he was found not to be cooperating in the investigation. Without any protection, the petitioner was not arrested and released by the DSP.Justice Sangwan asserted: “It is very strange and surprising that the affidavit itself speaks about the mala fide on the DSP’s part and further smells out favouritism to the petitioner for some extraneous consideration.”Justice Sangwan noted that the petitioner’s anticipatory bail plea was dismissed on August 31 and the state’s stand was that 44 firms had been registered on a mobile number by the petitioner facing the allegation of Rs 30 crore VAT evasion. Justice Sangwan pointed out that the DGP was required to look into the contents of the DSP’s affidavit.Justice Sangwan asked him to explain the circumstances under which the petitioner was directed to join the investigation and sent back when he was required to be arrested, especially when the deponent stated in the affidavit that the petitioner’s role was found to be highly dubious.Justice Sangwan made it clear that the affidavit was directed to be filed by the DGP regarding investigation conducted by the DSP much before the next date of hearing. The case would now come up in the third week of November.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-police-in-dock-for-sending-back-accused-required-to-be-arrested-149124
01-10-2020||---||Haryana highway blocked, commuters harassed||Karnal, September 30Infuriated over the non-procurement of paddy, farmers protested at five places in the district. They blocked the state highway in Nigdhu village and the Karnal-Garhibirbal road near Gheer village.At 11 am in Nigdhu, farmers and arhtiyas blocked the road, demanding smooth procurement as well as ensuring the lifting of procured paddy in 24 hours. The blockade continued for three hours and commuters had to face a lot of problems.They handed over a memorandum to Naib Tehsildar, Nigdhu. After the assurance of lifting of procured paddy in 24 hours, they lifted the blockade.A protesting farmer said that he has been waiting at the grain market for the past four days for procurement, but nobody came to him, forcing him as well as other farmers to protest.One commission agent said that they have no issues with who procures the paddy, but they want a written assurance that the procured paddy would be lifted in 24 hours.In Karnal city, they blocked a road near Guru Brahmanand Chowk which leads to the grain market and burnt the effigies of Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar and Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala. Rajinder Arya, a farmer, said that the government should ensure smooth procurement.Rajnish Chaudhary, president, Karnal Arhtiyas Association, said that they would continue their boycott till the fulfilment of their demands. The government should give an assurance of completing the lifting of procured paddy within 24 hours. Besides, it should make it clear as to who will procure the paddy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-highway-blocked-commuters-harassed-149125
01-10-2020||---||Paddy ‘not bought’, farmers protest||Kurukshetra, September 30Farmers under the banner of Bhartiya Kisan Union (Charuni) blocked roads, including state highways, and staged dharna in front of grain markets in Ambala and Kurukshetra on Wednesday.They have decided to go on indefinite dharna from Thursday till their demands are met.They are demanding streamlined paddy procurement, relaxation in condition of 17 per cent moisture content, and lifting through millers.10,190 MT procuredNearly 10,190 MT paddy stock has been procured by government agencies in Kurukshetra and 316 MT paddy has been lifted. Deputy Commissioner Sharandeep Kaur said “Directions have been issued to the officials to ensure that farmers don’t face any inconvenience.”The farmers parked their tractors trailers in the middle of the roads and sat on a dharna.Farmers blocked the Barara road, Yamunanagar road, Pehowa-Ambala road, Ismailabad-Ambala road and BR Chowk in Kurukshetra and Ambala-Hisar road, Jagadhri road, and Ambala-Naraingarh road in Ambala.Due to the blockade, vehicular traffic got affected and traffic was diverted through various routes.BKU chief Gurnam Singh accused the state government of making attempts to weaken the farmers’ protest and sending officials at grain markets for artificial purchase.He said, “The permissible moisture limit should be revised to 22 per cent and the lifting should be through millers instead of contractors.”“Farmers don’t have space to spread and dry the produce and they can’t follow the schedule system to bring produce. If the government pressurises them, then the farmers will have no other option but to spread paddy on roads including national and state highways,” he said.Shahabad JJP MLA Ramkaran Kala reached the dharna site and extended support to the agitating farmers. But the farmers told the MLA to resign if he was really concerned about farmers’ issues.MLA Ramkaran said that he was against the three farm Bills and also supports the farmers’ demands regarding paddy procurement.BKU spokesman Rakesh Bains said, “We will resume the protest from Thursday morning and it will be an indefinite dharna this time.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/paddy-not-bought-farmers-protest-149126
01-10-2020||---||Farmers stage dharna at Hisar mandi||Hisar, September 30Enraged over the non-procurement of paddy, farmers staged dharna at the new grain market in Uklana town of the district on Wednesday.The agitated farmers said that they have brought the paddy produce to the mandi after the government announced the start of procurement on September 25. But there are no arrangements for the procurement of their produce in the grain market.They said that they have been staying at the market for the past couple of days with their produce but the authorities are not cooperating with them.The farmers raised anti-government slogans during the dharna at the grain market. They said that the claim of the state government to purchase every grain on MSP has fallen flat at the start of the procurement season.Police force was deployed at the grain market to ensure law and order. Barwala SDM Rajesh Kumar, DSP Rohtas Singh and SHO Sukhjit Singh reached the grain market to placate the agitated farmers. The traders and labourers engaged in the procurement process also extended their support to the farmers. The local Congress and INLD leaders also supported the agitated farmers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-stage-dharna-at-hisar-mandi-149127
01-10-2020||---||Growers will gain from laws: BJP Kisan Morcha||Chandigarh, September 30The national president of the Kisan Morcha of the Bharatiya Janata Party, MP Raj Kumar Chahar, said that the recent agriculture laws were revolutionary steps for farmers.Addressing a press conference here today, Chahar said that these laws would economically strengthen the farmers. He explained that the Modi government was working to give remunerative prices to farmers for their crops and to increase their income. “The Modi government has brought many schemes related to farmer welfare,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/growers-will-gain-from-laws-bjp-kisan-morcha-149128
01-10-2020||---||26 succumb, 1,625 cases in Haryana||Chandigarh, September 30With 1,625 fresh cases today, the Covid tally in the state reached 1.28 lakh. With 26 deaths, the toll went up to 1,382.Four deaths were reported from Panipat, three each from Jhajjar and Yamunanagar, two each from Fatehabad, Sirsa, Hisar, Karnal, Gurugram and Faridabad and one each from Ambala, Rohtak, Bhiwani and Kurukshetra.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/26-succumb-1-625-cases-in-haryana-149129
01-10-2020||Gurugram||2 held for killing youth||The Gurugram police have solved the murder case of a youth following the arrest of the two accused. The youth was allegedly thrashed and killed on the intervening night of September 15 and 16 near Jharsa chowk. The police have recovered the mobile phone of the victim from the possession of one of the accused. The accused have been identified as Attaullah Khan alias Totla of Bihar and Priyaanshu alias Sachin, a resident of Saharanpur in Uttar Pradesh, and both are presently living in Gurugram as tenants. According to the police, the victim was identified as Pankaj of Bhadaf village of Mahendragarh district in Haryana. He was residing in a rented accommodation along with his friend Ajay at Rajiv Nagar in Gurugram.  Preet Pal Singh Sangwan, ACP, Crime, said that during questioning, the accused revealed that they had killed the victim with bricks and thrashed him brutally over a minor scuffle. They had then fled the spot, leaving the critically injured victim lying on the expressway. — OC||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-held-for-killing-youth-149130
01-10-2020||Our Correspondent ---||Man kills father in Gurugram||Gurugram, September 30 A 35-year-old resident allegedly killed his father after hitting him with a brick at their home in the district’s Dundahera town on Wednesday, the police have said.  The accused, identified as Deva, alias Devanand, was arrested and booked for murder. His family said he was mentally disturbed.  The deceased, Dharambeer, had retired from Haryana Roadways. He drove an auto-rickshaw after retirement.  “On Monday morning, my husband went to his room in the backyard when Deva hit him several times with a brick on his head and chin. My husband died on the spot due to excessive bleeding,” Dharambeer’s wife Santosh said in her complaint. “The accused have confessed to having killed his father,” said Inspector Satbeer Singh, SHO, Udyog Vihar police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-kills-father-in-gurugram-149131
01-10-2020||---||Need to marry farming with industrial growth||A farmageddon is staring at the Modi government in the aftermath of it passing the latest three laws on farming. While most political parties may be opposing the laws to gain political mileage, the fact remains that a large number of farmers, especially in rice-wheat-producing states like Haryana and Punjab, are truly scared about these three laws. The new laws will bring about a change, and it is sufficient to spook them. That is in the nature of farming communities, across the world, for over 200 years, ever since the onset of the industrial revolution began to marginalise farmers by opening up new avenues for creating wealth and power in society.The Modi government will have to move fast to regain the trust of farmers. Especially, because the profits that these three laws will unlock for the farmers will flow in only at the end of the harvest season. Till then, it does not matter what the facts on the ground are.At the root of the problems of farmers is the fact that they are located at the bottom of the value chain. In this location, they suffer most from economic downturns and gain the least from any upswing in the market. You would recall that each year, with every bumper harvest, the price of farm produce comes down ever more, the cost of inputs to farming keeps increasing and the condition of the farmer worsens. That has been the case across the world since the advent of industrialisation.The wiping out of farmers from farming has often been brutal and harsh. British farmers faced this dilemma in the 19th century. Lenin worried about this when he talked of the irresolvable scissors crisis that haunted farming in Soviet Russia. Stalin simply killed about three million farmers. The American farmer, who had upstaged the Indian farmer as the largest exporter of foodgrains in the world in the 20th century, went into a crisis in the 1920s and was finally wiped out during the depression of 1929-33. The transformation of farming in Europe was overshadowed by the two world wars in Europe that between them killed about 30 million Europeans.In contrast, the farmer in India has been spared such brutality, thanks to his romanticisation by leaders like Gandhi and a general disinclination in India to use harsh measures against anyone. This resulted in the creation of policies, since Independence, to help farmers. They included laws to take surplus land from landlords, efforts to provide land to the tiller and laws to ensure that tenant farmers were not cheated by landlords. Developmental efforts were initiated in the mid-1950s with the gram sewak and agriculture extension officer as foot soldiers and the block development officer helming the effort to transform farming communities into modern entrepreneurs.Those were the years when government officers revelled in setting up farmers’cooperatives to use farm machinery, preened themselves on having electrified villages and boasted about the number of farmers whom they had convinced to use modern tools and techniques. Inevitably, the amount of foodgrains produced increased. The APMC Acts that were implemented in the 1950s in some states were designed to ensure that farmers got a fair deal in marketing their crop. That the Acts effectively became millstones around the neck of farmers and ended up forcing the farmer to pay humungous sums of money to middlemen for services not rendered is a different story altogether.In parts of some states, farmers even became prosperous enough to start controlling political processes. However, the only farmers who prospered were the ones who added a business other than farming to their portfolio. Those who stuck to farming were quickly reduced to subsistence level — as is the case with 80 per cent of the farmers in India. The implementation of the mechanism of a minimum support price since the 1980s worked as a game-changer in protecting farmers against sharp downturns in agricultural prices. But even this mechanism has been of use to only a handful of farmers. Even in Haryana and Punjab, where it has been the most successful, it benefits not more than four out of five farmers while the granaries overflow.Under the circumstances, the best that farm unions, political parties and others who are concerned about the well-being of farmers can do is to help ease the farmer out of farming. For, I dare say that the farmer has been on ventilator for decades, and now, the plug is about to be pulled. Neither the world, nor India, needs so many farmers. Already, landowners in the US and in most countries of Europe are paid money by the government to not cultivate any land.It is important to be able to ride the wave of inevitable change, lest one drowns in it. Protests on the streets of India will not change the inevitable drowning. They will only turn the rest of the society hostile to farmers or invite the state in India to use harsh tactics against farmers, such as were used in Europe, the USSR, China and the US.Marrying farming with industrial growth is the thing for farm unions to do. They would have to certainly find out their own local mechanisms for raising funds for setting up industries, finding industries that are best suited to their locality and the local population, ensure that the locals have a stake in whatever growth that happens. In this respect, a visit to the small town of Baramati in western Maharashtra would be quite instructive to the farm leaders of Haryana and Punjab.This small town was nestled among dry fields in the rain shadow area of the Western Ghats, receiving about 19 mm of rain each year. Expectedly, everyone was poor. But while the rest of the country was dissing the projects of development in the 1950s and 60s, the farmers in Baramati, led by Appasaheb Pawar, collectively decided to industrialise their agriculture. This resulted in the healthy growth of horticulture, animal husbandry and poultry. Later, a milk federation was set up with the help of Operation Flood, along with cooperative sugar factories. The farmers were well poised to grow when the government liberalised the economy in the 1990s. They went out of their way to invite all sorts of enterprises to their fields. Agriculture soon became just one of the minor activities, even while everyone became prosperous due to the add-on businesses.In the 1960s the local council had a budget of about Rs 50 lakh, in 1990, the budget was Rs 5 crore and by 2015, it had grown to Rs 224 crore. If Punjab today boasts of clean villages due to wealth imported by NRIs, Baramati is an example of an oversized village generating its own wealth by marrying agriculture to industry in ways that are beneficial to the farmer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/need-to-marry-farming-with-industrial-growth-149210
