13-10-2020||Pradeep Sharma ||Haryana allows ‘farmhouses’ in residential zones||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, October 13 Residents in Haryana can now have “farmhouses” in the residential areas ranging from 2,000 square metres (4 kanals) to 10,117.5 square metres (20 kanals), a development that is set to change state’s urban landscape. Under its “low-density eco-friendly housing policy”, the plot owners can seek change of land use (CLU) for building mega houses with strict conditions that the premises would not be used for “commercial uses such as banquet hall, recreational, religious and institutional purposes”. Talking to The Tribune, K. Makrand Pandurang, Special Secretary, Town and Country Planning, Haryana Government, said the new policy would apply to all urbanisable areas in Haryana and would be strictly enforced so that no commercial activity was undertaken. He said maximum ground coverage of 20% would be allowed for plots measuring from 2,000 square metres (4 kanals) to 1 acres (8 kanals) with a floor area ratio (FAR) of 0.20. Similarly, for plots ranging from 1 acre to 2.5 acres (20 kanals), the ground coverage would be 15% and FAR of 0.20. Pool, pond and water bodies would be among the things to be allowed besides, the kitchen garden and urban farming. Only one dwelling unit would be allowed and no sub-division of the plot permitted. The installation of the rainwater harvesting would be mandatory for obtaining the CLU for the construction of the building on the plot. The owner will also have to provide a functional biogas plant at the plot. Welcoming the new policy, Suresh Aggarwal, president of the Haryana State Property Dealers Welfare Association, said “It would go a long way in regulating the haphazard and unregulated construction activity. However, the state government should enforce the policy in letter and spirit so that it was not misused by the vested interests. What is allowed Pool, pond and water bodies. Kitchen garden and urban farming. Raniwater harvesting and biogas plant. What is not allowed Commercial activities such as banquet hall and institutional use. Subdivisdion of the plot as only one dwelling unit is allowed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-allows-farmhouses-in-residential-zones-155217
13-10-2020||Hisar||2 of 17 juvenile inmates who escaped from Hisar observation home nabbed||Two of the 17 juvenile inmates who had escaped from an observation home on the outskirts of Hisar city were nabbed by police on Tuesday.Seventeen inmates, eight of whom face murder charges, had escaped from the observation home on Barwala road after allegedly attacking security guards on Monday evening. A majority of them belong to Rohtak, Jhajjar and Hisar districts, police said.Superintendent of Police Balwan Singh Rana said one of them was caught near a toll plaza on Rajgarh road and the other was held near village Talwandi Rana (Hisar).He said 15 teams of the district police are conducting intensive searches to trace the rest. The district has been sealed and an alert has been issued in the adjoining states to apprehend the inmates.The SP has urged everyone to not offer lift in their vehicle to suspicious people and immediately inform police about them.The security system of the observation home, from where six juveniles escaped in 2017, is being reviewed, Rana said.Hisar’s Deputy Commissioner Priyanka Soni, who reviewed the security system and talked to officials at the observation home, said the sub-divisional magistrate will probe the incident.Responding to questions asked by reporters after her inspection, the Deputy Commissioner said all aspects of the incident will be looked into. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-of-17-juvenile-inmates-who-escaped-from-hisar-observation-home-nabbed-155216
13-10-2020||Ravinder Saini||2,500 doors, 1,100 windows stolen from flats meant for BPL families||Tribune News ServiceJhajjar, October 13As many as 2,500 doors, 1,100 windows and 400 iron railings have been found stolen from 696 flats meant for the BPL families at Sector-5 in Bahadurgarh town.This came to the fore when officials of the Haryana Shahri Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) carried out physical inspection of the flats recently.The flats were constructed at a cost of around Rs 25 crore under the Jawaharlal Nehru National Urban Renewal Mission (JNNURM) five years ago but not a single plot has so far been allotted even as the applications were also invited some years ago.Sources said several flats in the multi-storey buildings were in a bad condition while these have also become a favourite haunt for anti-social elements as no watchman has been deputed to restrict the entry of trespassers.“The applications for allotment of the flats were invited in 2015. A team of district administration led by Additional Deputy Commissioner has been formed at every district headquarters to finalise the eligible candidates on the basis of various parameters fixed for the same. Thereafter, a list of eligible candidates is sent to the HSVP by the committee for the allotment but we have not yet received any such list,” said Sandeep Dahiya, Executive Engineer, HSVP.Dahiya added that the flats cannot be allotted without the list of eligible candidates hence theses were lying unallotted for the past five years. Since the private contractor who constructed the flats had not yet handed over the flats to the HSVP, the maintenance and security of the flats was his responsibility, Dahiya added.He maintained the Sector-6 Police Station in Bahadurgarh had registered a case under Section 380 of the IPC on the complaint of a HSVP’s Junior Engineer for the theft.ADC Jagniwas could not be contacted despite repeated attempts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-500-doors-1-100-windows-stolen-from-flats-meant-for-bpl-families-155189
13-10-2020||Our CorrespondentGurugram||Robbers nabbed after 33 years for murder in Haryana||Crime never pays and returns to haunt you. This saying was exemplified in Nuh district late Monday night when three farmers were nabbed for a robbery and murder executed 33 years ago.Tending to their fields and living a happy life with their children in Bulandshahr UP, Yaseen (69), Manzoor Ahmad (68) and Babu (70) were left shocked when a special team of Nuh police landed at their doorstep to arrest them for a crime committed 33 years ago in Punhana village.According to the police it was on August 30 in 1987 when a group of 25 robbers had barged into the house of a Punhana businessman, Swami Ram, who lent money keeping gold as mortgage.He was sleeping with his family when the gang barged into his house through the rooftop and held all the members of the family hostage. They then robbed the family members of around 1 kg gold, 150 kg silver jewellery and Rs 1,000 cash and threatened them not to report the incident to the police. When one of the neighbors, 32-year-old Jagdish Chandra, tried to raise an alarm, the robbers shot him dead.The police said while they were fleeing with the booty, the villagers, who heard the gunshot, surrounded the house and caught hold of three criminals, while others successfully managed to flee from the spot in a tractor.A case was registered under Sections 395 (punishment for dacoity), 396 (dacoity with murder) and 397 (robbery, or dacoity, with attempt to cause death or grievous hurt) of IPC and Arms Act at Punhana police station on August 30, 1987.The investigation in the case was never closed while two accused Suleman and Nizam were convicted for life term but all other accused were declared as proclaimed offender in January, 1988 by a local court. Police said that three criminals, who were caught from the spot are presently serving life term in Bhondsi Jail.During investigation, the police find out that 10 criminals had died a natural death in the last few years and their family members were unaware of their alleged criminal background, whereas three of the suspects had bought land in their respective villages and had started farming.Vivek Chaudhary, DSP, Punhana said that during checking the list of proclaimed offenders they got details of this 33-year-old case. A special team was formed led by inspector Ajit Singh into the matter and after hard work of more than seven months they got leads and finally nabbed them.“They were not in touch with one another for the last 10 years and were living without any fear and busy in agriculture as they thought the case must be closed. As they were proclaimed offenders but despite several efforts, they were still on large. The then active gang was used to target families of businessmen and rob them of cash and jewellery. They used to travel by tractor to carry out robberies. We have taken them on two days police remand after producing them in a city court on Monday and are questioning them," said Vivek Chaudhary, DSP, Punhana.Rati Ram, son of deceased Jagdish Chander, said that he was 10-year-old when the incident took place.“That incident changed our lives forever as our father was sole bread earner of family who had shot dead by the robbers. Now the wound has been scratched again. It makes no difference now,” added Rati Ram.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/robbers-nabbed-after-33-years-for-murder-in-haryana-155188
13-10-2020||New Delhi||Haryana emerges as Union Jal Shakti Ministry's pin-up state||Haryana has emerged as Union Jal Shakti Ministry's pin-up state for its "innovative" approach for water testing which furthers the Centre's mission to provide every household with regular and safe potable water under its Jal Jeevan Mission(JJM).Haryana has launched a state-of-the-art "Mobile Water Testing Laboratory Van" which is fully-equipped with a multi-parameter system having an ensemble of high definition analyzers, sensor, probes, and instruments.Regular water testing in Haryana is imperative as diachronic hydrological studies point to various parts of the state being affected mainly by constituents like total dissolved solids (TDS), Fluoride, nitrate, iron and alkalinity.The JJM aims to provide tap water connection to every rural household by 2024."Taking cognizance of the pressing need for water testing, Government of Haryana has come up with a novel approach for water testing", the Jal Shakti Ministry said, that while referring to the mobile laboratory van, and singling the state as an exemplar."It will be stationed at State Water Testing Laboratory, Karnal and its area of operation will be throughout the State", said Rajiv Batish, Director of Water and Sanitation Organisation, Public Health Engineering Department, Haryana.The salience of the laboratory includes its deployment on-site for effective management and quick access to water test reports in the exigency of the outbreak of water-borne disease.Besides, they can also be used for counter checking of quality of testing from all laboratories.The laboratory van is GPS enabled for location tracking, and the analysed sample data can be transmitted to a centralized PHED server via GPRS/ 3G connectivity with power backup.Its feature includes the ability to provides On-site recording and reporting of results through a smartphone or similar device with the ability to send results directly to a web-based secure central server.It has a fully automated sensor-based analysis controlled by centrally commanded software.The LED displays unit in the mobile lab gives an instant display of the results immediately after analysis.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-emerges-as-union-jal-shakti-ministrys-pin-up-state-155154
13-10-2020||Amit Sharma||FB easy platform for cyber war of gangsters||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 12Social media, especially Facebook, has turned out to be a platform for the so-called gangsters to issue threats to their rivals and claim responsibility for killings carried out by them.A day after Gurlal Brar was murdered, a Facebook post was uploaded from one of the profiles of gangster Lawrence Bishnoi that says: ‘It is start of new war”. A picture of Gurala with Bishnoi was also shared with the post.There are multiple social media accounts of student leader-turned-gangster Bishnoi which are updated on a regular basis.For three recent murders reported in Chandigarh, gangsters or their groups claimed the responsibility through Facebook posts, barely a few hours after the killings.In September last year, Rajveer Singh, alias Sonu Shah, was shot dead by four assailants inside his office at Burail village, Sector 45. The assailants had pumped 10 bullets into Shah’s body. His two colleagues, who were present at his office at that time, had also suffered bullet injuries. A day later, a post was updated on a Lawrence Bishnoi’s Facebook profile claiming the responsibility for the murder.Later when Bishnoi was brought by the Chandigarh police on production warrant, he revealed that the Facebook post claiming responsibility for Sonu Shah’s murder was posted by one of his henchmen.In March this year, Surjit Singh, a bouncer-turned-financier, was shot dead by two motorcycle-borne persons near his house in Sector 38 (West). He was returning home in his car when the assailants opened fire at him.Within a few hours after the murder, an unidentified person updated a post on the Facebook page of gangster Davinder Bambiha, stating that Lucky has avenged the killing of Amit Sharma who was shot dead at Saketri, Panchkula in 2017.Gangster Bambiha was killed in a police encounter at Gill Kala, near Rampura, Punjab, in 2016. However, Facebook profiles with his names and photos are updated frequently.Similarly, two Facebook profiles on Bambiha’s name were updated a few hours after 26-year-old Gurlal Brar, an acquaintance of Lawrence Bishnoi, was shot dead outside City Emporium Mall in Industrial Area, Phase I.The posts state Lucky had avenged the murder of Lavi Deora. Lavi was killed at Kotkapura, Faridkot, allegedly by the Bishnoi gang.Police sources said many gangsters had been operating mobile phones from within jails of Punjab and Rajasthan. “They have been ordering killings from inside the jails,” said a policeman.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/fb-easy-platform-for-cyber-war-of-gangsters-154809
13-10-2020||Parveen Arora||Haryana air quality dips as stubble fires shoot up||Tribune News ServiceKarnal, October 12With cases of stubble burning reaching 1,042 in Haryana till Sunday, the air quality in most districts of the state has started deteriorating. The air quality index in the rice producing districts like Kurukshetra and Karnal has turned poor, revealed the data of the Central Pollution Control Board.Out of the 1,042 farm fires detected so far, Kurukshetra with 213 cases is leading the tally, followed by Karnal (204), Ambala (139), Kaithal (130), Fatehabad (89), Yamunanagar (80), Jind (69), Hisar (34), Sonepat (21), Palwal (14), Sirsa (14), Panipat (13), Panchkula (10), Jhajjar (5), Rohtak (3), Rewari (2) , Bhiwani (1) and Gurugram (1).Also read: Officials stop farmers from burning stubble, assaulted in Karnal“The burning of crop residue is the main reason behind this sudden fall in air quality apart from the traffic, weather and industrial pollution,” said SK Arora, Haryana State Pollution Control Board area engineer.Doctors fear the poor air quality could aggravate respiratory problems.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-air-quality-dips-as-stubble-fires-shoot-up-155024
13-10-2020||Ambala||Potholes dot Ambala roads, residents irked||Residents of Home Minister Anil Vij’s home town are a harassed lot due to the poor state of inner and outer roads in Ambala Cantonment.Even after six years of his second consecutive stint as a minister in the Manohar Lal Khattar government, there has been no improvement in the condition of roads, which are dotted with potholes. Despite repeated public requests, the authorities concerned are yet to pay any heed.Grant of Rs7.5 crfor repair workThe situation is ironic, considering Vij’s claims of projecting Ambala as a model town. There have been incidents in which vehicles, especially heavy ones, that were passing through the town got stuck in potholes.The condition worsens during rains when accidents take place due to knee-deep potholes.“The poor condition of roads near minister Vij’s home speaks volumes of the official indifference towards public woes,” says Priya, a local resident.A survey by The Tribune revealed that Nicholson Road and other roads leading to or passing through Rai Market, Aggarwal Dharamshala, Hathikhana Mandir, Government College, Kabari Bazaar, Football Chowk, Sewa Samiti Chowk, Railway Station, Bus Stand, and even those leading to Vij’s house in Shastri Nagar, portray a picture of neglect.Besides inner roads in most of the residential and commercial areas, those connecting the busy Jagadhari Road are also in a deplorable state.Local officials, who are responsible for the maintenance and upkeep of local roads, claim they have done enough as per availability of funds. Home Minister Anil Vij said he had got a special grant of Rs 7.5 crore for the recarpeting and repair of all major roads, besides tending to other public works in the town. “Since certain roads in the town have developed cracks and potholes, the special grant will help in the repair and recarpeting work,” he said. Vij said 13 major roads would be covered under the project. The work will begin shortly, he said.The major roads to be recarpeted include the Staff Road to Fountain Chowk in Sadar Bazaar at a cost of Rs 71 lakh, IDBDI Bank-JCI Chowk stretch in Main Rai Market at a cost of Rs 78 lakh and Swaran Jayanti Park to Lal Kurti Chowk road at a cost of Rs 23 lakh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/potholes-dot-ambala-roads-residents-irked-154880
13-10-2020||Hisar||No arrest in truck driver suicide case||The police are yet to make any arrest in the suicide case of a truck driver employed with the power plant in Khedar village. He committed suicide livestreaming the tragic act on his Facebook account in Uklana town of the district.The victim has been identified as Pawan Kumar (26), a resident of Budhakhera village. He was living in Uklana town and was employed as a driver in the Khedar power plant on contract basis. The SHO of the Uklana police station, Sukhjeet Singh, said the police had registered a case under Section 306 and 34 of the IPC on the charge of abetment to suicide against four persons and started investigation. He said the accused had been identified as Purushottam , Anil, Kuldeep and Sunil, but none of them had been arrested so far.The SHO said the video of the suicide which is available on the Facebook was a piece of evidence in the case.The complainant, Chander Mohan, who is the cousin of the victim, alleged that the victim had named four persons for harassing him and not paying his salary for past three years, which resulted in financial crunch and drove him to take the extreme step. The victim has also named the accused in the facebook video. Chander Mohan said he saw the facebook account of Pawan on October 10 at 11 pm when he was talking and planning to commit suicide.He said he went to his room and placated him against taking the extreme step. Later, he was taken aback when he saw the video on Facebook showing Pawan hanging from the ceiling fan as he had committed suicide at about 4 am.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-arrest-in-truck-driver-suicide-case-154881
13-10-2020||Faridabad||Man arrested for  22-year-old’s death in Faridabad||A man has been arrested in connection with the death of a 22-year-old youth, who succumbed to injuries after being beaten up, in a Delhi hospital on Sunday.The victim was identified as Annu Nagar, a resident of the district’s Nachauli village. Sources said that on Thursday, unidentified miscreants accosted Nagar and tried to snatch his mobile phone. When he retaliated, they beat him up with sticks and left him on the road.He was shifted to hospital in Safdarjung, Delhi, in a critical condition on Friday.“One of the miscreants has been arrested. The police are searching for his accomplices,” a police official said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-arrested-for-22-year-olds-death-in-faridabad-154882
13-10-2020||Rohtak||MDU's staff take Covid pledge||MDU 6th sem exam from Oct 17Rohtak: Maharshi Dayanand University will conduct undergraduate (UG) sixth semester examination of various academic programmes from October 17. MDU Controller of Examination Dr BS Sindhu informed that UG sixth semester examination of BA/BSc/BCom (pass), B.Com (vocational), BSW, BCA and BBA will be held both in offline as well as online mode (as per choice filled by the students). Date sheets of the examination are available on the MDU website.KU VC administers oath to fight CovidKurukshetra: On the call of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the Chief Minister, Haryana, Manohar Lal, Vice-Chancellor of Kurukshetra University, Dr Nita Khanna under the Jan Andolan against Covid-19 on Monday administered an oath to all officers, staff and students. Registrar Prof Bhagwan Singh Chaudhary, Dean Academic Affairs Prof Manjula Chaudhary, Dean Students Welfare Prof Anil Vashishta joined the VC in administering the oath to hundreds of teachers through Google meet. All the deans of faculties, statutory officers, faculty members took oath to spread awareness on Covid. Thousands of non-teaching employees also took oath in their offices. Thousands of students also took part in oath taking through Google meetNutritional donation driveFaridabad: In the light of the Union Government's third Rashtriya Poshan Maah (National Nutrition Month), the occasion was celebrated as a three-day Nutritional Donation Drive - Samarpan, organised by the Student Welfare Department of DAVIM here recently. During the the Covid pandemic, the DAVIM family endeavoured to help those in need by providing nutritional food items like cereals, pulses and spices. Students, staff members and people living in the vicinity contributed in a large number for the noble cause. Dozens of cartons with food items collected at the end of the day were donated to Navjan Morcha Samiti-Tau Devi Lal Old Age Home, NIT 2 Faridabad.One more chance for EIT studentsFaridabad: To provide one more chance to the intermediate semester students of the Echelon Institute of Technology (EIT), Faridabad, to submit their reappear examination forms, the JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, Faridabad, has decided to accept examination forms of such students for even semester reappear exam from October 12 to October 26, 2020. This decision has been taken in compliance with the directions of the High Court of Punjab and Haryana, keeping in view the future of students. An official notice to this effect has also been issued by the university.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/mdus-staff-take-covid-pledge-154883
13-10-2020||Our CorrespondentGurugram||Girl jumps to death from 5th floor in Gurugram||A 22-year-old girl allegedly jumped to death from the fifth floor of her apartment in Sector 52 here.No suicide note has been recovered from the spot but the police are investigating the matter.The deceased has been identified as Khushi, a resident of Adhunik Apartment here. A student of Class XII, she lived with her mother and her father is reportedly staying abroad. The police said the reason for the suicide had not been ascertained yet.Khushi reportedly took the extreme step late on Sunday evening. After she jumped from the balcony of her flat, guards and other residents of the society gathered at the spot and informed her mother. The girl was then rushed to a nearby private hospital where doctors declared her brought dead. Meanwhile, another student Vishal also committed suicide in Wajirabad village. The 22-year-old hanged himself when he was alone in his room.“In both the incidents the reasons are not clear as no suicide notes have been recovered. We are investigating the cases and bodies have been handed over to the kin of the victims after post-mortem,” said SHO Dinkar Yadav.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/girl-jumps-to-death-from-5th-floor-in-gurugram-154884
13-10-2020||Mahendragarh||No CCI centre, farmers sell cotton below MSP in Mahendragarh||Cotton growers are compelled to sell their produce to private players below the Minimum Support Price (MSP) as the Cotton Corporation of India (CCI) does not have a purchase centre in the district.Cotton, which is sown over 18,500 hectares in the district every year, is fetching not more than Rs 5,000 per quintal. The MSP, however, is Rs 5,515 per quintal for medium staple and Rs 5,825 for long staple.There are two CCI centres in neighbouring districts of Bhiwani and Charkhi Dadri, but hefty transportation cost discourages farmers to take their produce there. So, they end up selling to private players below the MSP.Vijay Pal, a farmer from Saloni village, said he and others sold the produce to traders of Tigra village for Rs 5,000 per quintal three days ago. A month ago, he had sold his produce for Rs 4,200. “Farmers are demanding a CCI centre in Mahendragarh district, but the authorities are not paying heed,” he said.Joginder of Chapra Salimpur village sold his cotton for Rs 5,000 per quintal recently. Jaswinder Singh, Deputy Director (Agriculture), said he had written to the Director General, Agriculture and Farmers Department, urging him to open a CCI centre in the district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-cci-centre-farmers-sell-cotton-below-msp-in-mahendragarh-154885
13-10-2020||Karnal||Officials stop farmers from burning stubble, assaulted in Karnal||A supervisor of the Agriculture Department and his supervisor were allegedly assaulted by four farmers for stopping the latter from burning paddy stubble in Gharaunda’s Kaimla village on Saturday.The farmers were booked under Sections 186, 307, 324, 332, 353, 379-B, 435, 427 and 506 of the IPC. One of them, identified as Balraj, had been arrested. He was produced in court and sent to judicial custody, the police said. Deputy Commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav said no one was allowed to take the law into one’s own hands.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/officials-stop-farmers-from-burning-stubble-assaulted-in-karnal-154886
13-10-2020||Chandigarh||Fresh Covid cases halve in 4 weeks||Fresh Covid cases in Haryana halved in the past four weeks as the week ended September 13 recorded 17,092 cases while the week ended October 11 had 8,277 new cases.With 1,066 cases, the tally in the state jumped to 1.43 lakh today. Thirteen deaths pushed the toll to 1,592. Three deaths were reported from Hisar, two each from Sirsa, Bhiwani, Jhajjar and Panipat and one each from Gurugram and Kurukshetra. Gurugram reported a maximum of 274 fresh cases, followed by Faridabad (162), Rewari (64), Hisar (61), Kurukshetra (51) and Sonepat (50). — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/fresh-covid-cases-halve-in-4-weeks-154887
13-10-2020||What seemed like a normal manhole turned into a deep ditch when a tractor-trailer passed over it||Deep ditch on main road in Narwana||Can’t we live better?The backyard of Top Khana Bazaar, Ambala Cantt, is filled with heaps of cow dung and garbage. People have been living in its vicinity for years. One can imagine how polluted and stinking the environment has become over the years, full of flies and mosquitoes. Many residents here, it seems, have become used to living in such unhygienic conditions as they do not ask for better living standards from the authorities. However, the authorities need to keep a check on those who have cattle in residential areas. They need to spruce up the surroundings for the sake of people's health. — Col RD Singh, Ambala CanttPeople await PNG in PanchkulaThere seems to be no proposal for providing Piped Natural Gas (PNG) to all residents of Panchkula on the lines of Chandigarh, which shows the indifferent attitude of the administration. The PNG is 20 per cent cheaper than the LPG in cylinders, besides other benefits. The administration needs to keep pace with the changing times. — Ramit Bagga, PanchkulaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/deep-ditch-on-main-road-in-narwana-154888
13-10-2020||anjay YadavGurugram||Only two Ramlila events planned in Gurugram||With no donors and sponsors in sight amid the Covid-19 pandemic, only two out of 12 Ramlila committees will perform in the city. Children below 10 years of age and senior citizens will not be allowed to attend these events.The committees, after a meeting with Deputy Commissioner Amit Khatri, have announced the commencement of performances in accordance with Covid protocols. The organisers have restricted the total attendance to 200 people, besides cutting down the number of artistes by asking them to play multiple characters. Ram and Raavan will have only two-men armies at any given point on stage and USPs like 3-D sets, laser weapons etc will be missing. The committees will ensure thermal scanning, sanitisation and use of masks.“It is a tough time to stage a Ramlila. We have no money but as it is a 50-year-old tradition, we will go ahead with it. We will follow Covid safety procedures,” said Ramesh Kalra, a member of a Ramlila committee. “Over 400 chairs will be put up and only 200 people will sit on alternate chairs. Regular sanitisation of the stage will be done,” said the president of Shri Durga Ram Lila Committee. Other than this committee, Geeta Bhawan Ramleela Committee will perform. The committees will record and broadcast their performances online and accept online donations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/only-two-ramlila-events-planned-in-gurugram-154889
13-10-2020||Kurukshetra||‘Chakka jam’ by farm unions on November 5||Farmer unions have postponed the nationwide ‘chakka jam’ to protest the three farm laws in view of byelections in the Baroda segment of Haryana and some Assembly constituencies of various states.The protests will now be organised on November 5 instead of November 3. The decision was taken by leaders of various farmer unions during a meeting at Cheeka in Kaithal district on Monday.Leaders of around 30 farmer unions and organisations had given a call to block national highways for six hours on November 3 during a meeting in Kurukshetra on October 8.“A call was given to block national highways from 10 am to 4 pm on November 3. The protests have been postponed as polling in Baroda and other Assembly constituencies is on the same day. The ‘chakka jam’ will now be held on November 5,” said Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU-Charuni) chief Gurnam Singh Charuni.“During the meeting in Kurukshetra, we had forgotten that polling was scheduled for the same day. There has been no communication with the government so far,” he said. The Bharatiya Kisan Union (Charuni) gave a call for burning effigies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and local Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders on Dasehra across the state.“It has been decided that we will burn effigies of Prime Minister Modi on Dasehra. He has struck deals with corporates. I appeal to farmers to paste photographs of local Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders and supporters on the effigies too. I appeal to all farmers to burn effigies at the block level at 1 pm on Dasehra,” Charuni said.The union installed posters and hoardings decrying Home Minister Anil Vij at various locations in Ambala, Kurukshetra and Yamunanagar over the lathicharge on farmers in Pipli. “The hoardings have been removed at some places, but we will get these reinstalled,” Charuni said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/chakka-jam-by-farm-unions-on-november-5-154890
13-10-2020||Chandigarh||Judges err, admits High Court||Judges err, the High Court has ruled. In an candid observation on the functioning of the subordinate judiciary, the High Court has asserted that at times, flawed orders with errors in fact or law have been passed by judicial officers. The HC has directed the compiling of such errors before pointing these out to judicial officers during induction and refresher training courses.The back to the benches from the Bench order by Justice Arun Kumar Tyagi came on an appeal filed by Kanta Devi and another appellant against Rana Kumar and another respondent. The appellants were seeking enhancement in compensation awarded by the Panipat Motor Accident Claims Tribunal.Referring to the facts of the case, Justice Tyagi asserted that the tribunal had deducted Rs 26,67,168 of the total compensation of Rs 35,56,069 on the grounds that salary with allowances at Rs 31,752 would be payable to the appellants and dependants of victim Balwan Singh for the next seven years.Justice Tyagi noted that the victim was a resident of Haryana, but employed with the Delhi Development Authority, which had not enacted rules similar to the Haryana 2006 Rules, extending compassionate financial assistance to dependants of deceased employees by payment of amount equal to pay and allowances last drawn.Justice Tyagi stated that evidently, the observations in the impugned award were made by the tribunal’s presiding officer on the erroneous assumption that the victim, a resident of Haryana, was a government employee in Haryana.Holding that the claimants were entitled to compensation of Rs 36,26,069 with costs and interest, Justice Tyagi observed that erroneous orders, with fault in fact or law, might result in grave miscarriage of justice in case of non-filing of appeal or revision.“It will be appropriate that judicial officers are periodically sensitised for preventing recurrence of errors committed by them and avoiding errors frequently committed by other judicial officers,” Justice Tyagi pointed out.The Chandigarh Judicial Academy was directed to periodically compile cases involving such erroneous orders passed by judicial officers by obtaining the requisite information from the High Court Registrar Vigilance or the Registrar Judicial and the District and Sessions Judges concerned before pointing out the errors to judicial officers during the induction and refresher training courses organised for them.Before parting with the order, Justice Tyagi added that dedicated efforts were required to be made for not disclosing the particulars of judicial officers concerned and cases involved. The order’s copy was directed to be sent to the judicial officer concerned for information and guidance and to the academy’s Director Administration for requisite compliance.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/judges-err-admits-high-court-154891
13-10-2020||Chandigarh||Even ordinary BJP worker can defeat Hooda: Khattar||An interesting war of words has erupted between Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar and Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda in the run-up to the November 3 Baroda bypoll.Hooda, whose protégé Sri Krishan Hooda had won from in 2009, 2014 and 2019, had been daring Khattar to contest against him in the bypoll to test his government’s popularity.In response to Hooda’s challenge, Khattar on Monday said he did not need to contest against the Congress leader as even an ordinary worker of the BJP was enough to defeat the former Chief Minister.Speaking on the sidelines of an event, Khattar said the Congress had tried the experiment of fielding national-level leader Randeep Surjewala in the Jind bypoll last year, but an ordinary worker of the BJP made him bite the dust.“Let the party do a similar experiment this time too if Hooda is so keen to contest. An ordinary worker of the BJP will be enough for him,” Khattar said in reply to the former CM’s challenge.The BJP and Congress had not declared their candidates for the Baroda seat yet. Hooda, who launched a campaign in Baroda soon after his party MLA’s death in April, had been accusing the BJP-JJP government of failure on all fronts.The former CM had on Saturday said all sections of society were fed up with the BJP-JJP government and were waiting for an opportunity to teach the dispensation a lesson.“BJP leaders are now going to people for votes, but they will teach this government a lesson this time,” Hooda had said, daring Khattar to contest to test his popularity.Dismissing Hooda’s challenge, Khattar on Monday explained that Krishan Middha, an ordinary worker of the BJP, had defeated senior Congress leader Surjewala from Jind, a seat which the BJP had won for the first time in Haryana’s electoral history.Held in January last year, the Jind bypoll was necessitated due to the demise of Middha’s father Hari Chand Middha, INLD MLA. His son Krishan had joined the BJP just ahead of the bypoll.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/even-ordinary-bjp-worker-can-defeat-hooda-khattar-154892
13-10-2020||Panipat||MP: Congress spreading lies on farm laws||Karnal MP Sanjay Bhatia has hit out at the Congress for, what he described as, “spreading lies” against the three farm Bills in the run-up to the Baroda byelection, scheduled for November 3.“The politics of the Congress revolves around lies. It is spreading misinformation on the farm laws. The reality is farmers will be prosperous after the laws would be implemented,” he told the media in Gohana on Monday.“Farmers never got fertilisers on time when the Congress was in power in the state. They have now understood who their well-wisher is. People of Baroda have made their mind to vote for the BJP,” the MP said.He further said BJP leaders would go door to door in all 54 villages of the constituency to make people aware of the new laws.He blamed the Bhupinder Singh Hooda government for the “deplorable” condition of the constituency. “Baroda was never on the agenda of the previous governments.”Bhatia also accused Hooda of discriminating between his segment, Garhi Sampla-Kiloi, and Baroda, which, he said, lacked basic amenities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/mp-congress-spreading-lies-on-farm-laws-154893
13-10-2020||Rohtak||40-year-old  shot in Rohtak, three booked||A 40-year-old man, identified as Vijay Kumar, was shot by three unidentified motorcycle-borne assailants in Gandhi Camp locality here today.The assailants fled the spot after the crime. The incident was captured on CCTV cameras.The police said the reason for the crime was yet to be ascertained. They have started investigation after registering a case against three unidentified youths.As per reports, the assailants first came to the grocery shop of Vijay’s brother Rajender and looted some cash and other valuables from him at gunpoint. In the meantime, Vijay reached the spot and intervened. One of the assailants fired at Vijay from a close range, killing him on the spot. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/40-year-old-shot-in-rohtak-three-booked-154894
13-10-2020||Rohtak||4 teams formed to probe ENA seizure||Four police teams have been formed to probe the 40,000-litre ENA (extra neutral alcohol) seizure case, while the cyber crime police team has started analysing the call details of the accused to ascertain those involved in the illegal trade.The economic offences wing has also been associated with the investigation for monetary issues.“Three teams will be headed by the Sadar SHO, Incharge of CIA-1 and CIA-2 separately. Some more vital leads into the case have been received and the teams have begun working on it,” DSP Hansraj told The Tribune.Sources said the teams would visit the distilleries in Rajpura (Punjab) and Bhopal (MP) for verification of the papers and permits recovered from the accused. Even the cops would also go to Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan where the ENA was to be supplied to different persons for making sub-standard liquor.On a tip-off, the CM’s flying squad had seized over 40,000-litre ENA from a dhaba near Kanhi village on Sunday and arrested 24 persons, including two dhaba owners, tanker drivers and labourers, on the spot.Of the 24 persons arrested, 18 were sent to judicial custody and the rest to seven-day police custody.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/4-teams-formed-to-probe-ena-seizure-154895
13-10-2020||Chandigarh||Kaithal MLA, docs at loggerheads||Trouble seems to be brewing in Kaithal with BJP MLA Lila Ram and government doctors coming at loggerheads. The suspension of Chief Medical Officer (CMO) Dr Jai Bhagwan, following a “baseless” complaint by the MLA, has invited strong protests from the medical fraternity. The doctors’ association has set October 14 as the deadline for the authorities to revoke the suspension, failing which a two-hour protest will be organised and a meeting to plan the future course of action will be held.Two audio clips go viralTwo audio clips have gone viral on social media since the controversy erupted. One of the clips has the “MLA” purportedly asking the CMO to help out a private practitioner who was implicated following a raid under the PNDT Act. The other one has a “staffer” of the MLA allegedly reminding the CMO of the legislator’s call to help the accused. When contacted, MLA Lila Ram said he had heard the audio clips and the voice did not match his.While Lila Ram, in his complaint to Health Minister Anil Vij, had claimed that the CMO ignored his calls repeatedly, the doctors’ association maintains that the doctor was targeted for “not helping” a private hospital during a raid carried out under the PNDT Act despite allegedly getting a call from the MLA.Two audio clips, since then, have gone viral. While one has the “MLA” purportedly asking the CMO to help out the private practitioner who has been implicated following a raid under the PNDT Act, the other clip has a “staffer” allegedly reminding the CMO of the MLA’s call to help the accused.When contacted, Lila Ram said he had heard the audio clips and the voice did not match his. “These clips are being circulated because the CMO was suspended on my complaint. The truth is that he does not take my calls and some irregularities in the appointment of contractual staff had emerged in the past. I brought it to the notice of the Health Minister through a representation. Taking action, the minister suspended the CMO. He is only trying to get back at me,” the Kaithal MLA said.The Haryana Civil Medical Services Association has a completely different story. Its general secretary, Rajesh Sheokand, said the CMO had been suspended on a “baseless complaint by the MLA”. Further, the association maintained that the two audio clips were those received by the CMO while the raid was on.“Basically, the MLA was peeved because despite his recommendation, the CMO refused to help a hospital accused of carrying out sex determination tests. The MLA had called up the CMO while the raid was on. To teach the CMO a lesson, he made this baseless and false complaint and got him suspended. We want the CMO to be reinstated without delay, failing which the Kaithal chapter will be forced to protest. However, we will ensure that regular working of the hospital is not affected amid the pandemic and only a token protest is organised,” Sheokand said, adding that an inquiry should have been held before the CMO was suspended.Meanwhile, Health Minister Anil Vij, when contacted, said he had asked the department to conduct an inquiry. Additional Chief Secretary, Health, Rajiv Arora has formed a three-member probe committee. Vij said, “The CMO was suspended after I received a representation from the local MLA who had stated that the former did not take his calls. He had attached a letter by a Senior Medical Officer. This letter mentioned that the SMO was instructed against attending calls of public representatives. In the light of that complaint, the CMO was suspended and an inquiry has been marked.” He added that there was no complaint of any pressure on the CMO in the context of the raid when that representation had come.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kaithal-mla-docs-at-loggerheads-154897
13-10-2020||Rohtak||Meham cops on toes over Facebook fracas||Situation remained tense in Meham on Monday when Haryanvi artist Veer Sahu, the husband of former Bigg Boss contestant Sapna Choudhary, reached the town with a cavalcade of more than 20 vehicles to respond to a challenge given by a youth on Facebook.The police, apprehending a law and order situation, remained on alert. They did not allow Sahu and others stay at the “chabutara” of Meham Chaubisi (a cluster of 24 villages), the place decided by the youth for the duel.Sources said Sahu and his friends went to the house of an acquaintance in Farmana village. After an hour, he left Meham. “Sahu was not allowed to stay at the ‘chabutara’ in view of the Covid guideline. He was told about this in advance,” Meham police station in charge Naveen Jakhar said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/meham-cops-on-toes-over-facebook-fracas-154898
13-10-2020||Chandigarh||Accident death cover raised for retd cops||The Haryana Police have raised the accidental death cover for its pensioners from Rs 17 lakh to Rs 30 lakh.Additional Director General of Police (Law and Order) Navdeep Singh Virk confirmed this on Friday. To make it happen, an agreement with HDFC Bank has been revised.As per the revised MoU, the pensioners should have received the last salary in their salary account with HDFC Bank and continue to get their pension in the same account.However, if any employee has already retired and wants to get his pension from HDFC Bank, the retiree may need to open a separate pension account with the bank, which is also empanelled by the state government for payment of pension through the e-pension system.In view the arduous duty of police officers, Virk said, DGP Manoj Yadava had been taking important decisions for their welfare.Besides, the Police Department recently decided that officials up to the rank of Inspector could be posted at the place of their choice, including their home districts, six months prior to retirement. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/accident-death-cover-raised-for-retd-cops-154900
13-10-2020||Faridabad||5,200 kg spurious ghee seized in Faridabad||The CM flying squad and the local police recovered 5,200 kg spurious desi ghee in a raid here today.A case has been registered against one Raju Bansal, a resident of Subhash colony here.This is the second such raid in the district in the past two weeks. On September 27, 45 kg spurious ghee was seized.Was to be supplied during festive seasonThe police received information that some persons had been preparing spurious desi ghee and planned to supply it in the market during the upcoming festive season.The seizure included 32 canisters of refined oil and 24 canisters of Dalda vegetable oil, which were being used as the main ingredients to prepare spurious ghee.Mukesh Giri, SHO, Adarsh Nagar police station, Ballabgarh, said the raid was conducted after the police received information that some persons had been preparing spurious desi ghee and planned to supply it in the market during the upcoming festive season. He said the surprise check at Bansal’s house led to the recovery of 56 canisters from the spot.The seizure included 32 canisters of refined oil and 24 canisters of Dalda vegetable oil, which were being used as the main ingredients to prepare spurious ghee. Many containers filled with ghee, which the accused was in the process of dispatching for sale to dealers, had also been found. Five LPG cylinders meant for commercial use were also recovered from the spot.Bansal reportedly told the police that he had been into the job for the past few months.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/5-200-kg-spurious-ghee-seized-in-faridabad-154901
13-10-2020||Chandigarh||Year later, BJP-JJP CMP yet to see light of day||Nearly a year after the BJP-JJP government came to power in Haryana, its common minimum programme (CMP) for overall development of the state is yet to see the light of the day.In fact, the pandemic seems to taken a toll on the formulation of the CMP, with the high-powered committee headed by Home Minister Anil Vij failing to hold a meeting in the past about nine months.No meet in 9 months High cost of nearly Rs70,000 crore acts as a major deterrentCovid-19 forces Haryana to go slow on CMP preparationThe committee had, at its meetings on November 28 last and January 23, asked officers to examine the legal and financial aspects of poll promises made by both parties ahead of the 2019 Assembly elections so that the CMP blueprint could be prepared.Vij conceded that the meeting could not take place on account of the pandemic. The meeting would be called soon so that common points ofboth parties could be finalised for inclusion in the CMP, which would subsequently be implemented, he asserted.Sources said the mammoth cost involved in implementation of the CMP was a major reason for its delay as the pandemic had hit the state’s finances badly.Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar had gone on record saying implementation of the CMP would cost the state exchequer a whopping Rs 70,000 crore.It was estimated that implementation of the BJP’s poll promises would cost the state exchequer around Rs 32,000 crore and those of the JJP around Rs 38,000 crore.In the run-up to last year’s Assembly poll, the BJP manifesto contained 260 poll promises and those of the JJP 160 poll promises.The BJP, which failed to get a majority in last year’s Assembly poll, cobbled together an alliance with the JJP to form government in Haryana on October 27 last year.Immediately after coming to power, the government had formed the committee under Vij, with Kanwar Pal Gujjar, Education Minister, Anoop Dhanak, Minister of State for Archaeology and Museums, and Om Prakash Dhankar, state BJP president, as members, to prepare the CMP after a thorough study of the poll manifestos both parties.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/year-later-bjp-jjp-cmp-yet-to-see-light-of-day-154926
13-10-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana Cabinet meet on Oct 16||The Haryana Cabinet is scheduled to hold a meeting under the chairmanship of Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar in the Committee Room on the fourth floor of the Haryana Civil Secretariat in Chandigarh on October 16 at 11 am.An official spokesperson gave this information here on Monday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-cabinet-meet-on-oct-16-154931
13-10-2020||Karnal||Karnal police announce reward for info in murder case||After remaining empty handed in a murder case of a 42-year-old man of Sanwat village in the district in May 2018, the Karnal police have announced a reward of Rs 25,000 for the information about the murderers.Mahinder’s body was found in a cardboard factory on May 31, 2018, and the family members got the FIR registered against seven persons of the same village under Section 302, 34 of the IPC on June 1, 2018.The police had inquired from the accused and during the course of investigation, their involvement could not be established, so they have announced a reward of Rs 25,000 for any information about the assailants, said Ganga Ram Punia, Superintendent of Police (SP), Karnal. The name of the informer will be kept secret, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-police-announce-reward-for-info-in-murder-case-154932
