17-10-2020||Chandigarh||1,148 fresh COVID-19 cases take Haryana’s tally to 1,49,081; death toll 1,640||The COVID-19 death toll in Haryana rose to 1,640 on Saturday with six more fatalities, while 1,148 fresh cases pushed the infection tally to 1,49,081, a state health department bulletin here said. Of the new fatalities, three were reported from Karnal and one each from Panchkula, Bhiwani and Jind districts, it said.The districts which reported a big spike in cases, include Gurugram (271), Faridabad (159), Rohtak (129) and Hisar (118).The number of active cases in the state currently stands at 10,265 while the recovery rate is 92.01 per cent. --- PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/1-148-fresh-covid-19-cases-take-haryanas-tally-to-1-49-081-death-toll-1-640-157179
17-10-2020|| ||Man booked for raping his 16-year-old daughter in Palwal||Palwal, October 17In a shocking incident, the police have booked a man for allegedly raping his 16-year-old daughter in a Palwal village.According to a complaint lodged by the victim’s mother and wife of the accused, the 46-year-old had been sexually exploiting her daughter, a Class IX student.The victim has told her mother that her father had been exploiting her sexually for the past three or four years.The victim had been raped by him on more than one occasion during this period, claimed the complainant.  The matter, according to the complainant, surfaced after the accused tried to disrobe the victim on October 3, when her mother, who is a daily wager, had gone for work and the accused was home.As per the complaint, victim’s younger sister rushed to the room where her father attempted to pull off the 16-year-old’s clothes, and the incident was later revealed to the mother who lodged a complaint with the police on Friday.The accused used to sexually exploit the girl on pretext of coaching her and had threatened her of dire consequences if she revealed the matter to any one, the mother alleged in the FIR.The crime was even committed by the accused on the premises of the telephone exchange where he used to work, claimed the mother.Apart from two daughters, the couple also has a son. The victim is the eldest of the two daughters.“We have registered a case and have launched a hunt to nab the culprit,'' said a police official. This is a second such incident in the district in the last two weeks. Earlier, a 45-year-old man was arrested on charges of raping and impregnating his 17-year-old daughter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-booked-for-raping-his-16-year-old-daughter-in-palwal-157151
17-10-2020||New Delhi||Early harvest, labour unavailability due to pandemic led to more farm fires this time, say officials||Punjab and Haryana have recorded more incidents of stubble burning this season so far compared to last year and it is largely due to early harvesting of paddy and unavailability of farm labour due to the coronavirus pandemic, officials said on Saturday.According to the Punjab Pollution Control Board, the state has recorded 4,585 farm fires this season so far compared to 1,631 such incidents during the corresponding period last year.Haryana has also recorded an increase in farm fires—from around 1,200 incidents till October 16 last year to 2,016 this year.Karunesh Garg, Member Secretary of the Punjab Pollution Control Board, however, said the number of stubble burning incidents seem large because of early harvesting of paddy this year."Around 17 lakh metric tonnes of paddy was harvested till October 15 last year. This year, the figure is around 40 lakh metric tonnes. It shows that farmers harvested their crop early this year," he said.The monsoon season continued until September-end last year, delaying harvesting of paddy, Garg said.Earlier this week, Union Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar had asked Punjab to control stubble burning after air quality in the national capital hit "very poor" levels.Garg said it was wrong to blame Punjab for Delhi's bad air."Stubble burning in Punjab may be a factor but its contribution to Delhi's pollution is less than one per cent," he asserted.An official from the Haryana government said the number of farm fires in the state has "certainly increased" as compared to last year. "It can be attributed to the unavailability of farm labour due to the COVID-19 pandemic."S Narayanan, member secretary of the Haryana Pollution Control Board, said, "The number of farm fires, so far, is more than last year... Maybe it is due to early harvesting. So, it is too early to predict whether we will end up burning more stubble than last year.”"Most farm fires occur in Sirsa, Fatehabad and Kaithal. The administration has not been able to completely control stubble burning in those areas. Efforts are on."According to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR), the contribution of farm fires to Delhi's PM2.5 concentration rose from around 6 per cent on Thursday to 18 per cent on Friday.On Saturday, it is estimated to be around 19 per cent, SAFAR said. It was only around one per cent on Wednesday and around 3 per cent on Tuesday, Monday and Sunday.The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) had Friday said meteorological conditions in Delhi have been "extremely unfavourable" for dispersion of pollutants since this September as compared to last year.With less area under non-basmati paddy cultivation this time, CPCB Member Secretary Prashant Gargava hoped the number of stubble burning incidents will be fewer this year compared to 2019.Non-basmati paddy straw is considered useless as fodder because of its high silica content and so farmers burn it.Gargava also said stubble burning peak might not coincide with the peak of adverse meteorological conditions this year due to early harvesting of paddy.With Delhi-NCR bracing for months of poor air quality, experts have warned that high levels of air pollution can aggravate the COVID-19 situation. Severe air pollution in Delhi is a year-round problem, which can be attributed to unfavourable meteorological conditions, farm fires in neighbouring regions and local sources of pollution.According to an analysis by the Council on Energy, Environment and Water, a Delhi-based think tank, transportation contributes the most—18 to 39 per cent—to Delhi's air pollution. Road dust is the second-largest source of air pollution in the city (18 to 38 per cent), followed by industries (2 to 29 per cent), thermal power plants (3 to 11 per cent) and construction (8 per cent). PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/early-harvest-labour-unavailability-due-to-pandemic-led-to-more-farm-fires-this-time-say-officials-157118
17-10-2020||Haryana||Haryana to have DTOs instead of RTAs||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Saturday said the state would have District Transport Officers (DTOs) instead of Regional Transport Authority (RTA) officers.He said dedicated officers are to be posted in each district.At present, it is headed by Assistant District Commissioners (ADCs).Addressing a press conference, Khattar said inspectors were instructed to wear body cameras whenever they go for checking.He said Haryana would also introduce portable automated weighing scales and automated weighing scales to check the overload, and if this was successful, the state would try to install this on every road and every naka. They have already bought 45 scales.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-to-have-dtos-instead-of-rtas-157079
17-10-2020||Vijay C Roy||Punjab, Haryana, Himachal in fray for drug park||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 16All northern states, except J&K, will compete with each other besides southern and western states for a bulk drug park to reduce the country’s dependence on China. The last date to apply for the same was October 15.Dr Dinesh Dua, Chairman, PharmexcilLift investment capWe have appealed to the government to do away with minimum investment cap on availing production-linked incentive scheme for greenfield projects for bulk drugs and extend it to brownfield plants as well The Centre has framed an area scoring criteria for the selection of states for setting up the bulk drug parks. The government proposes to develop three bulk drug parks through grant-in-aid to states with a cap of Rs 1,000 crore per park with 70% financial assistance.The Punjab Government has proposed to set up the park in Bathinda. Haryana proposes to set up the park in Hisar. Himachal Pradesh had earlier decided to send a proposal to the Centre to set up the bulk drug park in Una district.The Indian pharmaceutical industry is the third largest in the world by volume. However, India is significantly dependent on import of basic raw materials viz. bulk drugs that are used to produce medicines. In some specific bulk drugs, the import dependence is 80 to 100%.Besides existing incentives, the industry expects more sops to attract investment and become self-reliant. “To make the scheme a success, we have appealed to the government to do away with minimum investment cap on availing production-linked incentive scheme for greenfield projects for bulk drugs and extend it to brownfield plants as well,” said Dr Dinesh Dua, whole-time director, Nectar Lifesciences, and chairman, Pharmexcil.The Centre is likely to announce the name of selected states by December.States such as Himachal Pradesh, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh have also applied for medical devices park.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/punjab-haryana-himachal-in-fray-for-drug-park-156747
17-10-2020||Shiv Kumar Sharma||It’s a bumpy ride on potholed Yamunanagar, Jagadhri stretch||Tribune News ServiceYamunanagar, October 16Roads of twin towns of Yamunanagar and Jagadhri are dotted with potholes as the authorities of the municipal corporation have failed to repair them for a long time.Plying of vehicles and transportation facility has become difficult on several damaged internal roads. Besides, commuters also face numerous problems related to driving and health due to dust particles from these broken roads.“The roads of twin towns have suffered extensive damage as the elected representatives and officials of the municipal corporation are paying little attention to carry out repair, maintenance and construction works,” said Amar Nath, a resident of Saraswati Colony, Jagadhri.A number of stretches of Chhoti Line, which connects a vast area of twin towns with one another, are dotted with potholes.Similarly, the road connecting Sector 17 with Chhoti Line via Swami Vivekanand Public School, Sector 17, HUDA, is also in bad shape. Being one of the busiest roads, the condition of this road is becoming worse with each passing day.“These two roads give nightmarish experience to residents and commuters. The authorities must look into the matter immediately and get the repair and construction work done,” said Anil Kumar, a resident of Professor Colony.Besides, the condition of Tejli road, road behind the court complex, road leading to Jagadhri Workshop from Yamunangar bus stand, road leading to DAV Dental Hospital and the main road of Sector 18 leading to the office of the District Town Planner are also in bad shape.The work of strengthening a road starting from Pyara Chowk to Nehru Park is being carried out at a snail’s pace. The area is considered to be the heart of the city and the owners of shops and showrooms there are upset with the delay in the completion of the work.Municipal Corporation Superintending Engineer Anand Swaroop said, “Majority of roads fall under the jurisdiction of the Public Works Department (PWD) and the ones that are under the municipal corporation’s jurisdiction will be repaired by December 10.”“Repair and construction work of roads worth Rs 7.5 crore have been completed in the twin towns in the past two months. Similarly works worth Rs 6 crore are under progress. Besides, repair and construction works worth Rs 7 crore are under the process for approval,” said the Superintending Engineer.Ignored by MCThe roads of twin towns have suffered extensive damage as the elected representatives and officials of the municipal corporation are paying little attention to carry out the repair, maintenance and construction works. — Amar Nath, resident of Saraswati Colony, JagadhriRepair works by DecemberA majority of roads fall under the jurisdiction of the Public Works Department and the ones that are under the municipal corporation’s jurisdiction will be repaired by December 10. — Anand Swaroop, Superintending Engineer, Municipal Corporation||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/its-a-bumpy-ride-on-potholed-yamunanagar-jagadhri-stretch-156836
17-10-2020||---||Nature park to open in November||Ambala, October 16A state-of-the-art nature park-cum-tourist complex has come up in Ambala Cantonment. Dedicated to Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, the Rs 26 crore project will be opened to the public in November.The project will comprise a 12-foot-high statue of Bose, a lake, boating club, food court, nature park, skating rink, musical coloured fountains, open-air theatre, children’s corner, gaming zone and swings.The statue of Bose was unveiled on his 123rd birth anniversary in January. Padma Bhushan Ram V Sutar from Maharashtra, who had designed the Statue of Unity, made the statue at a cost of Rs 26 lakh.Reviewing work at the project site, Local Government Chief Engineer DR Bhaskar instructed the contractor to complete the project by November 15.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/nature-park-to-open-in-november-156837
17-10-2020||Shiv Kumar Sharma||Priest, accomplice get life term||Tribune News ServiceYamunanagar, October 16Sessions Judge Deepak Aggarwal here on Thursday sentenced a priest and his accomplice, accused of murdering the owner of a temple, to rigorous imprisonment for life.Deputy District Attorney Sanjeev Kumar said the Sessions Judge also imposed a fine of Rs 25,000 each on the convicts, priest Netar Pal, alias Netram, of Haibatpur village of Yamunanagar district and Shubham Sood of Ludhiana.As per the police investigation, the victim, Sardara Saini, owned Jyoti Oil Company situated on Ratauli road in Vivek Vihar Colony of Yamunanagar. His family members lived in Professor Colony of Yamunanagar, but he used to live alone at the godown of his company.Around three to four years ago, he got constructed a temple of Goddess Shakumbhari Devi on the premises of his company, where he appointed Netar Pal as the priest for Rs 4,000 per month.Netar Pal along with his wife used to live in a rented accomodation, near the company in Vivek Vihar Colony. During a police investigation, he said, “Sardara Saini kept changing his cook regularly. Sometimes, he used to ask my wife to serve him tea and used to stare at her. When she told me about this, I planned to murder him with the help of a known, Shubham Sood from Ludhiana, on February 18, 2018.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/priest-accomplice-get-life-term-156838
17-10-2020||Our Correspondent||Body parts found in sacks in Gurugram||Gurugram, October 16A chopped body of an unidentified man was found in Sector 5 area here on Friday morning.The case came into light when some residents discovered two blood stained sacks which were stuffed with a body cut into two halves. Later, the police was informed by the residents, which took the body into custody.An FIR has been registered against unidentified accused under Sections 302 (murder) and 201 (hiding the evidences) of the IPC at Sector 5 police station. The body of the deceased had ‘Sandeep’ inked on his arm and was yet to be identified. The police said the deceased was murdered after being hacked by a sharp weapon. The body was found near an under construction house in a street near Gyan Deep School, Sector 5.“It seems that the deceased was murdered somewhere else and then the body was dumped here. Efforts are being made to identify the deceased and the picture will be cleared soon,” said Inspector Rajender Yadva, SHO, Sector 5 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/body-parts-found-in-sacks-in-gurugram-156839
17-10-2020||Chandigarh||Strength of HCS cadre goes up to 307||The Haryana Government has increased the cadre strength of the Haryana Civil Services (Executive) to 307 from the existing 300. According to an order issued by Haryana Chief Secretary, the cadre strength has been increased to 307 as per the Haryana Civil Services (Executive Branch) Rule, 2008, for a period of three years. While 227 posts have been earmarked for general administration, 50 posts will be treated as deputation reserve. Besides, 10 posts each will be earmarked as leave reserve and training reserve and to be made available for unforeseen demands. The effective strength of the HCS is currently pegged at 246. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/strength-of-hcs-cadre-goes-up-to-307-156840
17-10-2020||---||Chief Secy’s office to vet rules for Haryana board staff||Chandigarh, October 16To introduce fiscal, administrative discipline and propriety in service, rules being formulated for employees of boards, corporations, PSUs, statutory bodies and commissions of the Haryana Government will now be vetted through the Chief Secretary’s office.CM Manohar Lal Khattar accorded its approval for a proposal in this regard.Various boards, corporations, PSUs, statutory bodies and commissions usually frame service rules for their employees at their own level and sometimes seek comments of the Chief Secretary’s office at a later stage or post facto.Although, the Haryana Bureau of Public Enterprises (HBPE) examines the proposals of the boards and corporations, yet the posts created are sometimes taken as a precedent to demand parity or equivalence.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/chief-secys-office-to-vet-rules-for-haryana-board-staff-156841
17-10-2020||---||Pre-deposit for tribunal to entertain appeal upheld||Chandigarh, October 16 The Punjab and Haryana High Court has upheld the constitutional validity of a provision in the Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act, mandating pre-deposit of a certain amount for the appellate tribunal to entertain an appeal against an order passed either the Real Estate Regulatory Authority or the adjudicating officer. The ruling by the Bench of Justice S Muralidhar and Justice Avneesh Jhingan came on a bunch of petitions challenging a proviso to Section 43(5) of the Act. Among other things, the proviso says “where a promoter files an appeal with the appellate tribunal, it shall not be entertained, without the promoter first having deposited with the appellate tribunal at least 30  per cent of the penalty, or such higher percentage as may be determined by the appellate tribunal, or the total amount to be paid to the allottee, including interest and compensation imposed on him”. Taking up bunch of petitions filed by Experion Developers Private Limited and other petitioners, the Bench affirmed the orders passed the appellate tribunal, declining to grant the petitioners further time to make pre-deposit beyond the date stipulated by it or where the appeals were rejected following the petitioners’ failure to make pre-deposit as directed. The Bench, at the same time, issued directions for giving a last opportunity to the petitioners to make pre-deposit in a time-bound manner. It added that grounds were not made out to persuade the court to exercise its writ jurisdiction to grant waiver of pre-deposit. In none of the cases was the court satisfied that a case of ‘genuine hardship’ had been made out.   “A collective reading of provisions makes it apparent that when it comes to refund of the amount, and interest on the refund amount, or directing payment of interest for delayed delivery of possession, or penalty and interest thereon, it is the authority which has the power to examine and determine the outcome of a complaint,” the Bench asserted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/pre-deposit-for-tribunal-to-entertain-appeal-upheld-156842
17-10-2020||---||11 more die in Haryana; 1,227 new cases||Chandigarh, October 16With 1,227 fresh Covid cases and 11 deaths, the overall tally in the state reached 1.47 lakh today. Eleven deaths pushed the toll to 1,634.Four deaths were reported from Hisar, two each from Faridabad and Gurugram, and one each from Kurukshetra, Yamunanagar and Jind.The maximum fresh cases were reported from Gurugram (294), followed by Faridabad (189), Hisar (107), Sonepat (74) and Panchkula and Rohtak (60 each).In Faridabad, a seven-year-old boy from SGM Nagar was among the casualties. The boy was suffering from hepatitis and other comorbidities, according to the District Nodal officer, Dr Ram Bhagat. The other victim in the district was a 65-year-old woman from Sector- 32 A.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/11-more-die-in-haryana-1-227-new-cases-156843
17-10-2020||Sushil Manav||Independent candidate could make electoral fight interesting||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, October 16The Baroda bypoll has taken an interesting turn with Dr Kapoor Singh Narwal, once considered a strong contender for both the BJP and Congress ticket, filing papers as an independent candidate.A long-time associate of the INLD, Dr Narwal, an ayurvedic graduate from Baba Mastnath Ayurvedic College, Rohtak, had first switched loyalty to Dushyant Chautala’s JJP, but quit the party to join the BJP before the 2019 Assembly poll.On Thursday, Dr Narwal suddenly removed the BJP flag from atop his Gohana residence, giving credence to rumours that he was likely to get the Congress ticket due to his newly developed proximity to former Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda.The Congress ticket went to Induraj Narwal, a Zila Parishad member. Dr Narwal, with the support of Balraj Kundu, Independent MLA from Meham, filed his nomination as an independent candidate today.Being a well-known figure in the area, Dr Narwal’s candidature is being seen with interest, though it is yet to be seen whether Induraj Narwal or Yogeshwar Dutt of the BJP will benefit from his jumping into the fray.While Dutt is a Brahmin, the other three major candidates — Induraj Narwal, Dr Narwal and Joginder Malik of the INLD — are Jats.Kundu, who accompanied Dr Narwal to the office of the returning officer today, had to face the wrath of Congress supporters, who alleged that he was working in connivance with the BJP to harm the Congress candidate’s prospects.Kundu maintained that Dr Narwal was a “panchayati” candidate adopted by people of the constituency and would emerge the winner.Hooda, while exuding confidence of the party candidate’s victory in the bypoll, said it would be a direct fight between the Congress and BJP and Dr Narwal would not be able to get much support.He, however, hoped that Dr Narwal would see reason and eventually support the Congress candidate. State Congress president Kumari Selja expressed confidence that the Congress candidate would win comfortably.State BJP chief OP Dhankar said that his party was only concentrating on its own merits. “We have fielded the best candidate, Dutt, an Olympic medallist in wrestling, and our party are the best. We have much to offer to the electorate since we are in power in the state,” he said.Abhay Chautala, who accompanied the party candidate to the returning officer, said Dr Narwal was an old supporter of the INLD and he would try to convince him to support his candidate in the byelection.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/independent-candidate-could-make-electoral-fight-interesting-156844
17-10-2020||hana||Cong has given ticket to grassroots worker: Bhupinder Hooda||Former Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda has said that the Congress has given ticket to a grassroots worker from a farmer family on the demand of the people of Baroda. He was interacting with mediapersons after the nomination of Congress candidate Induraj Narwal. He said that the people of the constituency were demanding ticket for a local candidate this time.During the last election and in the presence of late Shri Krishna Hooda, I had promised the public to give ticket to a local candidate in the next election.He said this is not just a poll to elect an MLA but a fight for the honour of Baroda and the future of Haryana. “The Congress stands with the common man, the farmer and the workers in this fight against the BJP-JJP government. When Induraj Narwal, son of a farmer family, reaches the Assembly by defeating the BJP and its dummy candidates, a big message will go to the entire state,” he added.Rajya Sabha MP Deepender Singh Hooda, who also stood with Narwal as he filed his nomination, launched an attack on the BJP government. He said everyone in democracy and party has the right to ask for ticket, but only one person can get the party nomination. Now, everyone should unite and work for the victory of the party, he said.“This election is now the election of the people of Baroda. This fight is not only against the ruling coalition, but also against the dummy candidates who have entered the electoral fray with the intention of benefitting the government by dividing the anti-government vote bank. The public will elect a true son of the soil,” he commented.Deepender added that the result of Baroda would resonate as far as Chandigarh. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cong-has-given-ticket-to-grassroots-worker-bhupinder-hooda-156845
17-10-2020||---||Seat will progress under Yogeshwar Dutt: Sanjeev Balyan||Gohana, October 16Union Minister Sanjeev Balyan said on Friday that Yogeshwar Dutt, who won laurels for the country by winning medals, would shine by bringing development to Baroda after winning the election.He was addressing BJP and JJP workers and supporters during a programme organised before Dutt filed his nomination. Without naming any party or leader, he said development had eluded Baroda due to some people.Development my aim Don’t give me a chance again if I fail to keep my promises. My only target is development in the constituency. — Yogeshwar Dutt, BJP candidateBalyan said members of all communities in the constituency had adopted Dutt because as a wrestler, he had consumed ghee of every community. State BJP chief Om Prakash Dhankar said a player who could shine for the country with his efforts could also shine in his constituency. Taking a dig at the Congress, he said its politics was based on lies and it was misleading farmers on the three farm laws.Appealing to people to give him a chance for development, Dutt said they should not give him a chance again if he failed to keep his promises. He said his only target was development in the constituency.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/seat-will-progress-under-yogeshwar-dutt-sanjeev-balyan-156846
17-10-2020||Saurabh Malik---||HC: Issue directives for public auction of confiscated vehicles in Haryana||Tribune News Service Chandigarh, October 16 For preventing police stations from turning into junkyards with confiscated vehicles lying all around, the Punjab and Haryana  High Court has directed the Haryana Chief Secretary and Director General of Police to issue appropriate instructions for expeditious disposal of confiscation proceedings and public auction of confiscated vehicles. The direction by Justice Arun Kumar Tyagi came on a petition filed by Taroon alias Taarun Khan against Haryana and other respondents. The petitioner had challenged orders dismissing his application for the release of a pick-up vehicle on sapurdari in a case registered on March 13, 2019, registered under the Haryana Gauvansh Sanrakshan and Gausamvardhan Act, Indian Penal Code and Prevention of Animal Sacrifice Act at the Ferozepur Jhirka police station in Mewat district. The Bench was told that the seized vehicle was allegedly lying in a police station for more than a year in an idle condition. The Bench was told that this would damage the engine and tyres and the seized vehicle would turn into junk. Justice Tyagi observed that the seized vehicle was stated to have been confiscated by the Ferozepur Jhirka Subdivisional Magistrate vide an order dated April 11, 2019, without giving an opportunity of hearing to the petitioner. Justice Tyagi noted that it appeared that proceedings had not taken place for ordering sale of the confiscated vehicle by public auction after hearing the owner. Referring to the Supreme Court in the case of Sunderbhai Ambalal Desai, Justice Tyagi asserted that idle parking of confiscated vehicles in such cases would reduce these to junk, which would benefit neither the owner nor the state. Justice Tyagi pointed out that no person could be deprived of his life, liberty and property except in accordance with just and reasonable procedure prescribed by law. Justice Tyagi stated that confiscation proceedings of vehicles were required to be concluded within reasonable time by following the prescribed procedure and could not be kept pending for unreasonable length of time. Justice Tyagi observed that it would be expedient in the interest of justice that the confiscated vehicles were sold by public auction and proceeds deposited in the treasury, which would safeguard the interests of the state. Justice Tyagi asserted that in the eventuality of confiscation order being set aside by the appellate authority, High Court or Supreme Court, such proceeds would be payable to the owner. “In the absence of sale of confiscated vehicle by public auction, the state may be liable to pay compensation to the owner equivalent to market value of the vehicle released from confiscation at the time of its seizure by the police,” Justice Tyagi added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hc-issue-directives-for-public-auction-of-confiscated-vehicles-in-haryana-156847
17-10-2020||Chandigarh||Haryana Cabinet okays amended organised crime Bill||The Cabinet, which met under the chairmanship of Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar today, decided to introduce the Haryana Control of Organised Crime Bill. The government said it had become imperative to introduce the legislation to ensure effective legal action against gangsters. With this, the Haryana Control of Organised Crime Bill 2019, approved by the Assembly, stood withdrawn. A proposal for providing state government guarantee for availing term loan of Rs 55 crore by HAFED from NABARD for setting up a mega food park in Rohtak had been approved. The Cabinet approved the creation of a new Directorate of MSME for development and promotion of the sector. It approved exemption from motor vehicle tax to CTU buses plying on local routes in the tricity. The Cabinet gave ex-post facto approval for providing state government guarantee of Rs 700 crore in favour of commercial banks for working capital facilities sanctioned to the DHBVN. Toll point 26 on the Kala Amb- Sadhaura- Shahbad road would be reinstalled till March 31, 2022.   The Department of Housing was redesignated as Department of Housing for All. The cabinet approved the creation of Directorate of Housing for All by subsuming housing schemes currently being carried out. The Cabinet approved the draft of the Haryana Water Resources Conservation, Management and Regulation) Authority Bill. The Cabinet approved amendment in the teachers’ transfer policy. As per the amendment, after transfers, newly married and recently divorced women employees would be given preferred place of posting against vacancy upon request. The Cabinet placed on record its deep appreciation of the services rendered by senior IAS officer and Principal Secretary to Chief Minister Rajesh Khullar. He would join World Bank as executive director on November 1. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-cabinet-okays-amended-organised-crime-bill-156848
17-10-2020||---||Department seals two rice mills in Gharaunda||Karnal, October 16The Food and Civil Supplies Department has sealed two rice mills in Gharaunda allegedly for not delivering custom milled rice (CMR) worth Rs 37 crore to the department. The Gharaunda police have registered two FIRs against the proprietors and guarantors under Section 406, 420 of the IPC.Nishant Kumar Rathi, District Food Supplies Controller (DFSC), said that the department had issued paddy to Jai Hanuman Rice Mill and SSG Foods Gharaunda in 2019-20, but they failed to deliver 4,756 MT and 5,940 MT respectively. It jointly costs around Rs 37 crore.“We have issued several notices to them and several dates were also given to them. Their last date was October 15, but they failed to deliver the pending rice, forcing the department to take action against them,” he said.Accused is in DubaiIn another case, the second accused in the alleged embezzlement of CMR worth Rs 5.09 crore by Ram Dev International Company is in Dubai.This was revealed by Naresh Kumar, MD of Ram Dev International Company, which has three rice milling plants, eight sorting and grading units in the district with offices in Saudi Arabia, Dubai and Delhi.Naresh Kumar had surrendered before the Karnal police and was taken on seven-day police remand. Today, he was produced in court and taken on one-day police remand.Ganga Ram Punia, Superintendent of Police (SP), said that his remand was extended for one day by the court. During remand, he accepted that his brother Suresh Kumar, who is a co-accused in the same case, is in Dubai.In May, the CBI had registered a case against Naresh along with two other directors Suresh Kumar and Sangita for a multi-crore fraud following a complaint by the SBI on February 25.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/department-seals-two-rice-mills-in-gharaunda-156849
17-10-2020||---||Paddy procured from UP seized||Karnal, October 16The district administration has seized three trucks loaded with around 650 quintal of paddy, allegedly procured from UP, at Karnal grain market on Friday.An FIR has been registered against the truck drivers as they did not have any record of the crop. It was also not registered on Meri Fasal Mera Byora portal and no gate pass was issued for the transportation of paddy from e-kharid portal, due to which the licence of the commission agent has been suspended by the market committee secretary.As per the information, SDM Ayush Sinha was on inspection of the grain market and found three trucks loaded with paddy being unloaded outside a shop of a commission agent.When he enquired, the truck drivers could not produce any document and told the SDM that they had come from Shahjanpur.SDM Sinha said only those farmers, who had got gate passes and the crops of whom were registered on the department’s portal, could sell their produce freely in the grain market. “I have also instructed to determine the involvement of other employees involved in the nexus and notices will be issued to them,” said the SDM.“The trucks entered in the grain market illegally. The paddy was not registered on portal and thus the licence of the Sona Traders was suspended,” said Karnal Market Committee secretary Sunder Singh Kamboj.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/paddy-procured-from-up-seized-156850
17-10-2020||---||BKU state-level meeting in Kurukshetra today||Kurukshetra, October 16After back-to-back FIRs were registered against Bhartiya Kisan Union (Charuni) leaders in Ambala and Kurukshetra, the farmer union has called a state-level meeting at Kamboj Dharamshala in Kurukshetra on Saturday to chalk out its further strategy and to intensify the protest.Three FIRs (one in Kurukshetra against Gurnam Charuni for promoting enmity after he gave the call of burning the PM’s effigy on Dasehra and two in Ambala against BKU leaders under murder charges and blocking a national highway in Naraingarh) were registered this week after the BKU leaders held a protest during a tractor rally of the BJP.BKU chief Gurnam Singh said, “Earlier, the government registered FIRs under attempt-to-murder charges after the Pipli incident and now, it has started booking farmers under murder charges as well. This is not acceptable. The BJP has been trying to take advantage of the death of its own party worker. It was clear in the videos that no one attacked Bharat Singh and he died due to heart attack. He was a heart patient. Wrong allegations are being levelled against the farmers, but the government can’t suppress the voice of farmers by registering fake FIRs.“A state-level meeting has been called to discuss the issue. Besides this, we will also chalk out the strategy for the Dasehra event in which we have given the call for burning effigies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, local BJP leaders and supporters at the block level and a ‘chakka jam’ on November 5,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bku-state-level-meeting-in-kurukshetra-today-156851
17-10-2020||sar||JJP legislator refuses to head housing board||Jogi Ram Sihag, JJP MLA from Barwala, has refused to take charge as Housing Board Haryana chairman to protest the recent farm laws.Addressing a press conference on Friday, Sihag said he stood by farmers opposing the farm laws. He said he supported the state government and was thankful for the offer.The JJP MLA stated that the farmers had been facing problems in procurement during this kharif season. He said he would not accept any government post as as he understood their pain and problems.He said he had talked to Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar and Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala over the farm laws and put forth his point of view. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/jjp-legislator-refuses-to-head-housing-board-156852
17-10-2020||Sanjay Yadav||Fake call centre busted in Gurugram||Gurugram, October 16The cyber crime unit in collaboration with the CM flying squad busted another fake call centre in Gurugram on Friday.Over 30 men and women, including the mastermind, working as employees in the centre being run at Udyog Vihar, Phase 1, here were nabbed.The accused used to dupe foreigners through pop-ups offering technical support and antivirus etc. Two main server laptops have been seized by police.“The call centre employees used to send a link of a virus through pop-ups on illegal or porn sites and the virus used to bug their system when they tried to access these sites. Then on complaint of people they used to provide them with some solution to the problem and used to charge them with 300 to 700 dollars,” said CM squad DSP Inderjeet Singh.The CM squad and the cybercrime police conducted a joint raid after getting a tip-off that a fake call centre was being run from Plot No. 108, Udyog Vihar, Phase 1 here. When a team reached the spot, more than 30 employees were found engaged in the job. They did not possess any valid OSP licence from the Department of Telecommunications or any other agreement/MoU related to their work.The police detained more than 30 persons and arrested six, including the owner and the manager of the call centre. The arrested accused have been identified as call centre owner Abhinandan Kumar of Dwarka, Delhi, manager Sunit Gautam of Hauj Khas, Delhi, Saurabh Shankar, Ajay, Harender Singh and Manipur resident Huidrom Samson Meitei.“The call centre was the brainchild of Abhinandan Kumar and Sunit Gautam,” said Gurugram Police Commissioner KK Rao.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/fake-call-centre-busted-in-gurugram-156853
17-10-2020||Faridabad||Wanted criminal carrying Rs2 lakh reward arrested in Surajkund||A wanted criminal, carrying a reward of Rs 2 lakh, was arrested by a team of crime branch after an encounter in Surajkund area of the city here on Thursday night. The accused, wanted in 16 cases, got injured in the shootout.Revealing that the arrest of one Kulbhushan (27) hailing from Nachauli village in the district, was made around 10 pm, a spokesperson of the police department said it could be made after an encounter. He said a team of police led by Inspector Vimal Rai got stationed near Kant Enclave here on a tip-off that the accused was coming to the city from Delhi in a car. He said as the accused was signaled to halt, he turned his vehicle towards Kant Enclave, but got stucked after about 200 metres due to a dead end. “As the police neared him, he got out of the car and ran towards the jungle besides opening fire on the police,” he said adding that the accused was later arrested. He said the accused has been admitted to the civil hospital.Kulbhushan is wanted in at least a dozen cases of murder, attempt to murder, ransom and other cases and had four cases registered against him in UP. He had also threatened an Inspector of the Crime Branch earlier this year. He is kingpin of a gang known as Fracture Gang, said a police official.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/wanted-criminal-carrying-rs2-lakh-reward-arrested-in-surajkund-156854
17-10-2020||---||120 farm fires in a day, air quality dips||Karnal, October 16There is no let-up in the burning of crop residue cases in Haryana. The state government’s efforts in this regard seem to having little impact.Data recorded by the Haryana Space Applications Centre (HARSAC) shows the state witnessed 120 fresh active fire locations on Wednesday, taking the number of the total fire locations to 1,569 from September 25 to October 15.Farmers of Karnal, Kurukshetra, Kaithal and Ambala are among the top violators, said the data. On Wednesday, the HARSAC reported 25 active fire locations in Karnal, 24 in Kurukshetra, 16 in Ambala and 15 in Kaithal district.So far, with 314 active fire locations, Kurukshetra is leading the tally, followed by Karnal (305), Kaithal (224), Ambala (219), Fatehabad (124), Jind (106), Yamunanagar (105) and Hisar (52). With the increasing incidents of farm fires, the air quality of the state is also deteriorating.The air quality of Kurukshetra has turned to very poor from poor in two days. Its air quality index (AQI) stands at 332 as recorded at 4 pm on Thursday. Of Panipat, AQI is 347, Yamunanagar 325, Manesar 303, Gurugram 311, Faridabad 335, Charkhi Dadri 337, Ambala 274, Bhadurgarh 291, Fatehabad 291, Hisar 279, Jind 298, Kaithal 206, Karnal 287, Rohtak 241 and Sonepat 272. The AQI in the range of 0-50 is considered good, 51-100 satisfactory, 101-200 moderate, 201-300 poor, 301-400 very poor and 401-500 severe.SK Arora, Regional Officer of Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB), said that stubble burning is a main reason for pollution. “I have conducted a meeting of officials to expedite the checking of stubble burning in the fields. We, with the help of other departments, are making farmers aware not to burn stubble, but to manage it for profit,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/120-farm-fires-in-a-day-air-quality-dips-156855
17-10-2020||Rohtak||Agri Dept acting against farmers burning stubble in Haryana||The Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Department has taken the responsibility of taking punitive action against those burning stubble. The Additional Chief Secretary, Agriculture, had directed Deputy Directors to lodge FIRs, issue challans and execute other enforcement measures to check stubble burning. Sources said the directive was issued after the Haryana State Pollution Control Board  washed its hands of citing shortage of staff, besides other reasons. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/agri-dept-acting-against-farmers-burning-stubble-in-haryana-156856
17-10-2020||The Centre has said strict vigil will be maintained against polluting activities in Delhi and neighbouring towns to ensure better air quality and the authorities concerned would visit the sites and check pollution in Delhi. It is a matter of great pity that Delhi air quality hit an eight-month low. As a matter of fact||Check air pollution with full force||Subhash C Taneja, GurugramRooftop solar panel should be allowedThe Panchkula administration should approve the installation of free rooftop solar panels /plants on private residential buildings under the renewable energy service company (RESCO) model, recently approved by the Chandigarh Administration. It can result in residents getting electricity at Rs 2 per unit less than the existing rate for the next 15 years even if the electricity rate increases. The same will result in the administration achieving their target of generating solar energy as well as being environment friendly.Ramit Bagga, PanchkulaJind remains backwardLast week, on my way to Delhi, I had to cross Jind. Unhygienic conditions prevailed from Devilal Chowk to Rohtak Road.The stretch of 3 km was dug up and a lot of dust was being raised by the non-stop traffic. This area is thickly populated and on both sides of the road t. Jind is also called the 'political 'city and all parties hold their rallies here. But no political party has ever bothered to develop this town.Ramesh Gupta, NarwanaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/check-air-pollution-with-full-force-156864
17-10-2020||Hisar||Webinar on e-waste||Monthly coding test at GJUSTHisar: GJUST coders students club organised its second monthly coding test on Hakerrank under the training and placement cell. Pratap Singh Malik, director, placements, said this time, two tests were organised, first test for the second year students and second test for the third and fourth year students. Total 27 students participated in first coding test, which was of 60 minutes and out of these, three students were selected. Harsh Saharan from BTech, IT, secured first rank, Mahesh Saini from BTech, CSE, secured second rank and Pankaj kumar from BTech, CSE, secured third rank. In the second test, a total of 61 students participated and three students - Prince Kalra from third year, BTech, CSE, secured first rank, Vinayak from third year, BTech, CSE, was ranked second and Sachin from fourth year BTech, CSE, secured third rank.Virtual agriculture fairHisar: In the first session of the second day of the virtual agriculture fair of Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agricultural University, various webinars were organised. The first webinar gave information about the direct sowing of paddy, in the second webinar, the topics were related to disease and its prevention in milch animals and the third webinar was regarding increasing the yield of rabi crops, etc. Giving information here on Friday, a spokesperson of the university said in this webinar, Dr SS Poonia talked about the direct sowing of paddy, which was proving very effective and that the state government's plan 'Mera Pani Meri Virasat' was also proving worthwhile. He said that this not only saved water, but also reduced the cost of pumping.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/webinar-on-e-waste-156865
17-10-2020||Ambala||3 held with illicit liquor||1 arrested for illegal miningThe district police have arrested Jatinder Kumar alias Kala of Panjokhra near here in a case of illegal mining, the officials said here on Friday. The accused was produced before a local court, which remanded him in 14-day judicial custody, the officials added. TNSMan held with intoxicantsThe district police have arrested Amandeep alias Billa of Ambala City in a case of smuggling intoxicants and claimed to have recovered 30 intoxicant injections from his possession, the officials said here on Friday. The arrested accused was remanded in two-day police custody by a local court, the officials added. TNSBiker killed in mishapA motorcyclist, Munish Kumar of Barara near here, was killed in a hit-and-run case near Barara, the police said here on Friday. According to the police, the accident took place when a recklessly driven unknown car hit the motorcycle on which the victim was riding near a railway flyover. A case has been registered. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/3-held-with-illicit-liquor-156866
17-10-2020||Ambala||Sex determination centre unearthed in Ambala, 2 arrested||A team of health officials from Ambala busted a sex determination centre and nabbed two men - a quack and a tout - here today.The suspects have been identified as quack Surender Singh of Vishnu Vihar in Ambala City and tout Sohan Lal, alias Sonu, of Ambala.Dr Balwinder Kaur, Deputy Civil Surgeon-cum-nodal officer, PCPNDT, said: “The raid was conducted following a tip-off that some people were involved in sex determination test racket. They charge Rs25,000 to Rs30,000 for sex determination test. We arranged a decoy customer, contacted the tout and the deal was struck at Rs25,000.”“The tout called the decoy customer at Manav Chowk. She was taken to Surender’s residence in Vishnu Vihar Colony. The quack disclosed the sex of the foetus. After getting signal, the team conducted the raid and arrested the quack and his tout,” Balwinder said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sex-determination-centre-unearthed-in-ambala-2-arrested-156805
17-10-2020||Chandigarh||Sonu Shah’s murder: Chandigarh police bring two other Bishnoi gang members on production warrant||The UT police brought two members of the Lawrence Bishnoi gang on production warrant to probe their role in the Sonu Shah murder case.Raj Kumar, alias Raju Basodi, and Abhishek were lodged in a Haryana jail.Raju was arrested by the Special Task Force of the Haryana Police at Indira Gandhi International Airport in Delhi in February this year. The gangster, who was deported from Thailand, was operating an extortion racket for the Bishnoi gang from the foreign land. Raju, a resident of Basodi village in Sonepat, has several cases registered against him in Haryana, Punjab, Rajasthan, Chandigarh and Delhi.Police officials said Raju, a key member of the Bishnoi gang, will also be interrogated on the members of the gang active in the region.Rajveer Singh, alias Sonu Shah, was shot dead by four assailants inside his office at Burail village in Sector 45 in September last year. The assailants had pumped 10 bullets into Shah’s body. His two colleagues, who were present at the office, had also suffered bullet injuries. A day later, a post was updated on the Lawrence Bishnoi’s Facebook profile claiming the responsibility for the murder. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sonu-shahs-murder-chandigarh-police-bring-two-other-bishnoi-gang-members-on-production-warrant-156815
17-10-2020||Chandigarh||Lawrence Bishnoi gang member held with pistol in Chandigarh||The UT police today claimed to have arrested another member of the Lawrence Bishnoi gang from whom a country-made pistol and five cartridges have allegedly been recovered.The suspect, Parveen Kumar (31), alias Bhima, of Rohtak district in Haryana, was nabbed while riding a bike with a fake number in Sector 45. The police said during interrogation, it came to light that he was an active member of the gang and had come to the city to meet an associate, Monty Shah, also a member of the gang.Bhima has a criminal past. Seven cases are registered against him in Haryana and two in Punjab. He was sentenced to life term in a murder case registered at Dera Bassi. He was out on bail. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/lawrence-bishnoi-gang-member-held-with-pistol-in-chandigarh-156823
