16-05-2021||Noida||Noida authority starts home delivery of oxygen cylinders||NOIDA: The Noida authority on Sunday said it has started delivering the oxygen cylinders to homes of Covid patients on call. “Many patients in Noida do not have even one family member who can pick up cylinders from the authority’s counters. Therefore, the authority released numbers on which patients can call and get a cylinder delivered,” said Ritu Maheshwari, chief executive officer of the Noida authority.She said cylinders will be delivered within two hours. The formalities such as Aadhaar card, Covid report and copy of the doctor’s prescription will be accepted at home itself. The authority will charge ₹200 for a small cylinder with ₹2,500 refundable security, and an oxygen concentrator will be provided with a refundable security of ₹7,500. People can call AK Jain at 9205691612, Pradeep Kumar at 9205692763, Rohit Singh at 9205691601 and Rajesh Kumar at 9582793787. The service is available from 8am to 8pm. The cylinders will have to be returned after use within one day while a concentrator can be returned in seven days. Maheshwari also said that owners of industrial units have been asked to set up Covid help desks at the factory premises for their workers. “The help desks are operational in 6,732 industrial units in Noida to handle Covid-related queries in small and big units. Besides, at least 1,500 beds isolation facilities are operational in around 500 industrial units in the city to treat patients,” said Ritu Maheshwari, chief executive officer of the Noida authority.The micro, small, medium enterprise association said that several companies which had the space have developed isolation facilities with a minimum of ten beds so that workers in need can get treatment. “The chief minister’s visit has benefited us, as all officials are now on their toes and have intensified the fight against Covid. We are following all instructions and have set up help desks for workers from Covid-19,” said Surendra Nahta, president of the association’s Noida chapter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-authority-starts-home-delivery-of-oxygen-cylinders-101621184047318.html
16-05-2021||Noida||Liquor shop owner held for violating lockdown guidelines||Noida: A liquor shop owner in Surajpur was nabbed by the Noida police for allegedly selling alcohol beyond the stipulated hours on Saturday and violating lockdown guidelines. The suspect, identified as Rakesh, a native of Bulandshahr, was running a liquor shop in Malakpur village under the jurisdiction of Surajpur police station. According to police, he was nabbed when the police were patrolling the area in the evening. “Around 7pm, the patrolling team noticed that he was selling alcohol to locals from a house adjacent to his shop,” said Ajay Kumar, station house officer at Surajpur police station.He said that a team apprehended Rakesh and seized 10 bottles and 38 quarters of imported whiskey from his possession. Police said his staff was also aiding him in the illegal sale of liquor and a search is on for them. The suspects were not only violating excise mandates but also Covid protocols as they were working without masks and social distancing, said police. According to the state and district administration guidelines, liquor shops in Gautam Budh Nagar reopened on May 11 and are allowed to operate between 10am and 5pm. Selling after the stipulated hours is a violation of the lockdown guidelines.Officials said action can also be taken against people found purchasing liquor in an illegal manner.Kumarsaid Rakesh has been found to have sold alcohol beyond the stipulated hours regularly. He and five others have been booked at the Surajpur police station under Sections 188, 269 and 270 of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the Excise Act.“Our inspectors are working in the field to ensure the lockdown guidelines are followed. Large crowds can no longer be seen at the shops now barring the initial few days. In case owners violate the guideline of selling liquor after hours, they are liable to pay a fine of ₹5,000,” said district excise officer R B Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/liquor-shop-owner-held-for-violating-lockdown-guidelines-101621183989119.html
16-05-2021||Noida||Four new oxygen plants planned to meet demand||Noida: In a bid to meet the shortage of medical oxygen in the city, four new oxygen plants have been planned at different hospitals to tide over the crisis, said officials aware of the matter. The pressure swing adsorption (PSA) plants, which separate and retrieve oxygen from ambient air, are expected to start operations from June, said officials. “We are arranging oxygen through different channels but the demand is still high. So four new oxygen plants have been planned at the Super Speciality Paediatric Hospital and Post Graduate Teaching Institute (SSPHPGTI) in Sector 30, one at Government Institute of Medical Sciences and two at a Covid hospital in Sector 39. One of the plants at Sector-39 will be made operational by May end,” said additional district magistrate of Gautam Budh Nagar, Diwakar Singh. According to officials, two PSA plants, each having a capacity of 300 litres per minute, will be developed at the Covid hospital in Sector 39, of which one is being built using funds from the state budget while the other will be constructed with funds collected through corporate social responsibility (CSR). Meanwhile, the PSA plant at the paediatric hospital will have a capacity of 15 cubic metres. “The plant proposed at Government Institute of Medical Science, Greater Noida, will be developed from CSR fund,” said Singh. “We have received a few proposals of installing an oxygen plant at the institute. However, the work has not been initiated yet. Currently, the demand for oxygen is around 11 kilo litres per day. We are receiving oxygen and also have a liquid oxygen plant installed here. However, a new oxygen plant will be of great help,” said Brig (Dr) Rakesh Gupta, director of Government Institute of Medical Sciences. Currently, the city faces a shortage of 28.13 metric tonnes (MT) of oxygen per day. Officials said the total demand of oxygen in the city’s hospitals and medical college — both private and public — is around 125 MT while the city is being supplied with 96.87 MT of oxygen.The city currently requires to refill 1,890 D-type cylinders, each of quantity 0.01 MT and 200 B-type cylinders, each having a quantity 0.0021 MT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/four-new-oxygen-plants-planned-to-meet-demand-101621183988537.html
16-05-2021||Noida||In Noida and Ghaziabad, slots for 18-44 age group vaccination fill up in an hour||Ghaziabad: Slots for Covid-19 vaccination for the 18-44 years category, which opened up on Sunday for the coming week, were almost fully booked within hours in Ghaziabad, while the same in Gautam Budh Nagar were mostly gone in just a few minutes.According to the Ghaziabad health department, they had received 35,000 doses on Saturday and correspondingly, increased the number of vaccination centres from 16 the previous week to 28, for the drive from May 17 to 22.“We created the sessions Sunday morning and the slots got booked within minutes. Twelve more centres were added for the upcoming week, with an average of 200-300 doses per centre. More centres could be created as we had received stock of 35,000 doses for the 18-44 age group, apart from 25,000 for the 45+ category on Sunday evening from the store at Meerut,” said Dr Vishram Singh, district immunisation officer of Ghaziabad. The slots opened up at around 11am and within an hour, a majority were booked, the Cowin portal showed. Vaccinations for the 18-44 years’ age group started in the two districts on May 10.Beneficiaries who have registered online said they were eagerly waiting for slots to open up.“It was like fastest finger first as slots were getting booked within minutes. It was almost as if tatkal tickets for railway trains are being sold. I had filled in all the details and opted for the centre nearest to my house. Luckily, I got a slot for Monday. I tried last week but I missed the opportunity as there were no slots,” said Prateek Kaushik, 32, a resident of Delhi Gate in Ghaziabad. Residents in Gautam Budh Nagar booked slots at a faster pace on Sunday. However, some still missed the registrations. “We kept trying to book a slot in Noida but to no avail. Eventually we gave up. Every time we logged on, it showed booked for all centres near us and ‘not available’ for later dates. Finally, my wife and I booked a slot in Delhi for later this week,” said Lalit Garg, a resident of Sector 56, Noida. By Sunday afternoon, the CoWin portal showed very few slots available in GB Nagar. Majority of the bookings were in rural centres at community health centres at Jewar, Nagar Panchayat Jahangirpur, Rabupura, sub-centre and Ghijore. “We created about 32 centres for vaccinations of those from 18-44 years. The slots got booked very fast on Sunday. We received about 42,000 doses from the vaccine depot at Meerut for this week. We are trying to provide 7,000 doses daily to beneficiaries in this category,” said Dr Deepak Ohri, chief medical officer of GB Nagar district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/in-noida-and-ghaziabad-slots-for-18-44-age-group-vaccination-fill-up-in-an-hour-101621183927262.html
16-05-2021||Noida||ILI/SARI cases show declining trend in Ghaziabad||Ghaziabad: The cases of influenza-like illness (ILI) and severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) have started witnessing a decline in the current month after such cases peaked in April this year, according to data of the district health department. Health officials said that the decline in ILI and SARI cases is a good sign as about 15-20% of such cases turn out positive for Covid-19. According to the health department data, there were about 41 cases of ILI/SARI in Ghaziabad in February which increased to 106 in March and further spiked to 3,249 in April when Covid-19 caseload was high in the district. However, during the first 15 days of May, only 570 such cases have come in so far. The ILI and SARI cases show Covid-19 symptoms like cough, cold, fever and respiratory issues and need to be tested and treated early to avoid any patient going into stages of aggravation. The officials said that the decline in ILI/SARI cases is a result of door-to-door surveys, surveillance and testing taken up by the health department teams. “We have 618 surveillance teams and 20 static centres where testing takes place to detect suspected cases. About 15-20% of both ILI and SARI cases generally turn into positive for Covid-19. So, early detection of ILI/SARI cases helps contain the spread of virus,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer, Ghaziabad. In September last year, of 6,093 Covid-19 cases in Ghaziabad, 2,531 patients had shown symptoms of ILI/SARI, showed the data. The figure was 1,319 of 4,174 Covid cases in October, while it was 1,089 of 4,198 Covid cases in November and 315 of total 1,238 Covid cases in December last year. “So, their (ILI/SARI cases) early testing and treatment is a must. We have also intensified surveillance and door-to-door surveys in rural areas to detect and test such cases. In urban areas, localities like Indirapuram, Vaishali, Vasundhara, Sahibabad and Raj Nagar have high number of ILI/SARI cases. The trend is, however, on a decline,” Gupta said. Experts said that they have also witnessed a decline in ILI/SARI cases in May. “About 80% cases coming in around mid-April were having ILI/SARI symptoms. We have observed that the rate of such patients coming in has declined to about 50-60% during past one week, and it is encouraging,” said Dr VB Jindal, former president of Indian Medical Association (Ghaziabad). “It is vital that anyone having ILI/SARI symptoms should get tested at the onset and isolate self, besides starting with treatment,” he added. Ghaziabad has witnessed a sudden spike in Covid-19 cases after April 15 this year. On April 15, the sample positivity rate was low at 2.8%, but it shot up to 8.84% on April 30 and further spiked to 19.3% on May 6. The official records indicated that it was 14.55% on May 15. Sample positivity rate refers to the number of samples testing positive per 100 samples tested. Sometimes patients take more than one test for confirmation and so, total positive samples can be higher than total positive cases, the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ilisari-cases-show-declining-trend-in-ghaziabad-101621183867293.html
