17-05-2021||Noida||Drive-through vaccination begins in Noida||NOIDA: The Gautam Budh Nagar administration on Monday started two drive-through vaccination centres in the district -- one at DLF Mall of India in Noida’s Sector 18 and another at Greater Noida Sports Complex. More than 170 people were administered Covid-19 vaccine at the two sites on the first day of the drive that was conducted from 9am to 5pm, officials said.According to the officials, at these centres, people aged 45 years and above can get their vaccination done while sitting in their cars. However, prior registration on the Cowin portal is required, they said. “The beneficiaries have to wait for 30 minutes in their cars after vaccination. The health staff engaged in vaccination will monitor them for 30 minutes after jab and then let them go,” said Narendra Bhooshan, chief executive officer of Greater Noida authority, who is also the nodal officer for Covid-19 management for GB Nagar. The camps were organised a day after instructions came from UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath who had visited the Noida on Sunday. At the Greater Noida stadium, a total of 83 people got vaccinated on Monday, the officials said, adding that the camp will continue in coming days.“People should bring their mobile phones used for registration and also an identity card for completing the vaccination process. They can approach the medical staff if they face any issue after getting jabs,” said Bhooshan, who also conducted an inspection of the Greater Noida camp.GB Nagar district magistrate Suhas LY launched the drive-through vaccination camp at DLF Mall of India at 9am. At this centre, 93 people got vaccinated, said the officials.“People can comfortably sit in their cars and get vaccination done under supervision of medical staff. People can book their slot on Cowin app and reach these camps,” said Suhas.The administration is providing Covishield jabs at these two drive-through centres, the officials said.Beneficiaries have welcomed the ‘drive-through’ initiative. “It’s a great initiative as I did not have to wait much longer. Moreover, it is saving us from the crowd at a hospital. It was a hassle-free experience overall,” said a beneficiary at the Greater Noida camp, requesting anonymity.Park+, a smart parking solutions firm, helped the administration organise the camp at DLF Mall of India. “With this drive-through initiative, we hope to expedite the vaccination process across the country. The malls and parking lots for the drive-through vaccination are our existing partners. We are honoured that they are cooperating with us on such a short notice to help the state government. We are planning a seamless vaccination drive for Noida,” said Amit Lakhotia, founder of Park+.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/drivethrough-vaccination-begins-in-noida-101621275610742.html
17-05-2021||Noida||Transgenders in GB Nagar demand separate vaccination camp||Noida: Members of the transgender community in Gautam Budh Nagar have asked for a separate Covid-19 vaccination camp for them, saying they have been left out of the process. District administration officials said that they have plans to hold a vaccination camp for the transgenders.Urooz Rizvi, a transgender who is a social activist, said that she has written to the district administration asking for a separate vaccination camp for the community. “Most of the transgenders are not educated enough to understand the importance of vaccination. I have urged the administration to hold a vaccination drive for the transgender community in GB Nagar,” said the Sector 74 resident who is recovering from Covid-19. Rizvi also runs a restaurant in Sector 119. Activists said that most of the transgenders are unaware of the registration process on Cowin portal to get vaccinated. Kaushal, a transgender, said that she has no clue about it. “Our community is usually cut off from the society. Others in my colony who work as domestic helps have been able to get registered and their employers are helping them get vaccinated. However, I have no clue about this,” said Kaushal, a resident of Chhalera village in Sector 44.Basera Samajik Sansthan, an NGO that works with over 2,000 transgenders in GB Nagar, is getting them vaccinated since the vaccination for the 18-44 age group opened up.“Most of the transgenders have fallen prey to the rumour that vaccination may harm the body. We have been sensitising them and encouraging them to get vaccinated against Covid-19,” said Ram Kali, a transgender who works at the NGO.The NGO has so far got 20 transgenders vaccinated at the Sector 30 district hospital. “In the last two weeks, we could only get 20 people vaccinated. We urge the district administration to hold a vaccination camp for transgenders so that they are not left out of the process,” added Ram Kali.When asked, GB Nagar district magistrate Suhas LY said that the administration is planning to hold a vaccination camp for transgenders soon. “We do not want any section of the society to be left out from vaccination against Covid-19. We will plan a vaccination camp for transgenders soon,” he said.As per the 2011 census, Uttar Pradesh has 137,465 transgenders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/transgenders-in-gb-nagar-demand-separate-vaccination-camp-101621275611316.html
17-05-2021||Noida||People in 45+ category find it difficult to get second dose of Covaxin in GB Nagar||Noida: Residents of Gautam Budh Nagar who are due for their second shot of Covaxin say they are finding it difficult to get the jab. The gap between two doses of Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin coronavirus vaccine is a minimum of 28 days. Those in the 45+ category who got their first dose in April, are now looking to get the second dose.Vaccinations for this category were opened on April 1As per the Cowin portal, two government healthcare centres and one private hospital are administering Covaxin for the 45+ category in the district. However, beyond May 18, the slots at these centres show no availability.“I was administered the first dose of Covaxin at a private hospital in Sector 63 on April 13. However, when I was due for the second dose, I found that the hospital did not have it. I searched on the CoWin portal but all slots are booked or show ‘not available’. Many of my neighbours are also facing the same problem and people are running from hospital to hospital for a second dose of Covaxin but are unable to find it,” said Anusuya Singh, 50, a resident of Sector 61, Noida.When asked, the district’ Covid-19 nodal officer, Narendra Bhooshan, said, “Due to a change in government directives, private hospitals now have to procure vaccines on their own. If people are finding trouble in getting the second dose, I will study this issue and ensure that it gets resolved soon”.Earlier this month, an Uttar Pradesh government order directed that those people, whose second coronavirus disease vaccine dose is due, need not book a slot again and can simply walk-in at healthcare centres where they got the jab earlier, for their subsequent one.“For those who got their first dose at a private hospital and are not able to get the subsequent one at the same hospital, can walk in to any government centre that is providing the vaccine for it,” added Bhooshan.Sector 30 resident Diwakar Mahajan (55) said that a private hospital in Sector 29, where he got the first dose of Covaxin, has put up a notice asking people to go to the government centre where it is available.“The notice said that the second dose of Covaxin will be given at the Urban Primary Health Centre (UPHC) Raipur in Sector 127 on Saturday. However, by the time I reached there, the doses were over and I was asked to come again later,” said Mahajan.As per the district immunisation officer Dr Neeraj Tyagi, only two healthcare centres in the district—UPHC Surajpur, Greater Noida and UPHC Raipur, Sec 126 are administering Covaxin doses for the 45+ category.“Each of the centres has a capacity of 200 vaccines per day with a 30:70 ratio for the first dose and the second dose for walk-ins, respectively,” said Dr Tyagi. However, he did not divulge how many Covaxin doses are left in the slot as the CoWin portal on Monday evening showed vaccines are ‘not available’ at the two centres from Tuesday.Rohit Verma, a resident of Sector 137, said he got the second dose of Covaxin via the walk-in mode at UPHC Raipur on Saturday.“Though the centre was booked on CoWin, I walked-in and got my mother (73) vaccinated for her second dose of Covaxin without any waiting time or hassle,” he said.For the 18-44 category, Covaxin is being administered at Father Agnel School in Sector 62 and at Harola UPHC. According to the district’s chief medical officer, Dr Deepak Ohri, the total vaccine stock available in the district, including Covishield, is 20,000 as of Monday evening.Meanwhile, an official from Fortis Hospital Noida, which is also administering Covaxin, said that while they are allowing walk-ins for the second dose of Covaxin, there is only a limited stock left.As per official data, 7,901 people got vaccinated in the district on Monday, of which 5,238 from the 18-44 category got the first dose. In 60+ category, 612 got the first dose and 75 got the second dose. In the 45-59 category, 1,657 got the first dose and 228 people got the second dose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/people-in-45-category-find-it-difficult-to-get-second-dose-of-covaxin-in-gb-nagar-101621275551411.html
17-05-2021||Noida||Covid-19 vaccination: Senior citizens turned away from Sanjay Nagar hospital in Ghaziabad||Ghaziabad: The Sanjay Nagar Combined District Hospital on Monday witnessed a chaotic scene after most of the senior citizens who arrived to get their second dose of Covid-19 vaccine were turned away from the city’s prominent vaccination centre. The senior citizens, who waited in long queues at the Sanjay Nagar hospital for their second dose, said that the hospital staff had earlier asked them to come on Monday. “But even on Monday, they did not entertain us and asked us to return. I took my first dose on April 7. I came to the centre with my wife after spending ₹200 on auto fare. We waited in a queue since morning, but there was no announcement, or any notice put up. The hospital staff turned us away without vaccination and asked us to come three months after the first dose,” said 67-year-old Shivraj Singh, a resident of Kalka Garhi. Praveen Jain, another 67-year-old who arrived at the centre, said that on the vaccination card, the hospital had given May 10 as the date for second dose. “On May 10, they said that vaccine was out of stock. I, along with my wife, came on Saturday, and they asked us to come on Monday. Today we stood in a queue since 8.30am and a guard told us that vaccine will be given. At 10am, the hospital staff put up a notice that vaccine will be given only to beneficiaries who have registered for their first dose,” said Jain, a resident of Raj Nagar Extension. Notably, the Sanjay Nagar hospital predominantly offers Covishield vaccine to beneficiaries. On May 13, the Centre extended the gap between two doses of the Covishield vaccine from six-eight weeks to 12-16 weeks. The Centre approved a new set of recommendations from a technical expert group that will help give the first dose to more people and is consistent with studies that suggest a longer interval may offer better efficacy.  Sixty-four-year-old Sunita Gupta, a resident of Sanjay Nagar, was also furious at the scenario which prevailed on Monday. “On May 15 (the date of her second dose), they said that vaccine was out of stock. They called us on May 17. After waiting for three hours in a queue, they asked me to come three months from the first dose,” she added. Dr Sanjay Teotia, chief medical superintendent of the hospital, said that there was a huge rush for vaccination on Monday.“Earlier, the gap between two doses was four weeks, and now it has been extended to about three months. Also, we received another brand of vaccine stock on Saturday, and it could not be administered to beneficiaries who were given Covishield as first dose. So, they were asked to come after a gap of three months from their first dose,” Teotia said.Despite repeated attempts, Ghaziabad chief medical officer Dr NK Gupta could not be reached for a comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/covid19-vaccination-senior-citizens-turned-away-from-sanjay-nagar-hospital-in-ghaziabad-101621275550797.html
17-05-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad admin offers support to poor Covid-19 patients||Ghaziabad: As patients continue to battle Covid-19 in healthcare facilities, the Ghaziabad district administration said it has decided to help patients from impoverished backgrounds who are unable to afford hospital bills.The administration has also asked private hospitals to install CCTVs in Covid wards which will be linked and monitored by the Integrated Covid Command and Control Centre (ICCC) at the district headquarters.According to records of the health department, the Ghaziabad district has 3,111 Covid beds, which include 2820 oxygen beds. Of these, the daily average occupancy in the past one week (May 9 to 15) has been 2,717. Out of the 815 ICU beds, 782 were occupied in the past one week on an average, while 185 out of 201 ventilator beds were occupied. “It has been seen during the second Covid wave that patients are taking longer to recover and this has put a huge financial burden on their families. We have directed that hospitals should continue treating patients without any compromise on quality and such bills should be forwarded to the district administration. We have a responsibility towards these patients, and we will get such bills settled through means such as corporate social responsibility funds, among others,” said Ghaziabad district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey. According to the state control room figures of May 17, the total Covid case tally in Ghaziabad stood at 51,759 so far, with 47,757 discharges, 386 deaths and 3,616 active cases.“The ICCC will take daily information of vacant beds, availability of medicines and availability of ICU beds. Status of patients will be noted through CCTVs. It has also seen that patients’ kin have to run around town looking to fill prescriptions issued by hospitals, and end up falling into the trap of black-marketers and face problems. We have clearly directed hospitals that they are to make all arrangements themselves, as part of treatment. In case the hospitals face issues or are short of supply, they should immediately refer it to the district administration,” Pandey added.Meanwhile, a team of officers has started on a “bill audit” of as many as five hospitals upon complaints of alleged over-charging received by families of patients. “We have started the process and some of the bills have been settled. In cases of over-charging, the hospitals will be asked to refund, else their registrations may be cancelled. We have also directed for audit of the entire supply chain, from the manufacture to the retailer level, for life-saving medicines related to black fungus. This is a new emergence with some Covid patients, and we need to curb black-marketing of such drugs,” the DM said.Private hospitals who attended a meeting in this regard on Monday said they are following the directions of the district administration as well as the state government.“Some directions were issued last year and this year too. All directions are being followed and complied with. We are providing the best available treatment to our patients and are also following guidelines,” said a spokesperson from Yashoda Hospital at Kaushambi.Officials of the Indian Medical Association (Ghaziabad) said they have no issues with the directions of the district administration, provided that there is better coordination about the directions.“Regarding installation of CCTVs, we are of the opinion that doctors need freedom when it comes to treatment, and they should be allowed to do it. In case the admin wishes to monitor, they can, but it should not be an obstruction. Further, if the admin ensures that supply of medicines is regular, the hospitals will not feel the need to issue a prescription for medicines to be obtained outside. This is only if there is a short supply of the same,” said Dr Ashish Agarwal, president of the association’s Ghaziabad chapter. “We also feel that a lot of families are facing financial burden due to prolonged treatment during the current wave. This is due to the severity of the infection. If the admin has stepped in to help such families, we would also appreciate it,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-admin-offers-support-to-poor-covid-19-patients-101621274710749.html
17-05-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad administration plans paediatric ICU ward for children||Ghaziabad: Anticipating another wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Ghaziabad administration has planned to set up small paediatric intensive care units(PICU) wards, having five beds each, in both private and government hospitals for treatment of children. According to official records obtained from the district health department, about 677 children upto the age of 10 were infected with Covid-19 between April 1 to May 13 this year. While reviewing the situation, the Uttar Pradesh government appointed IAS Senthil Pandian C as the nodal officer and gave directions to the hospitals to come up with such wards. “The paediatric ICU wards will come up in major private and government hospitals, with five beds each, that will be reserved for the treatment of children who require admission, in case they get infected,” said Pandian. The two government hospitals on the list also include Sanjay Nagar Combined District Hospital and government- acquired Santosh Medical College. In this context, the UP chief minister also gave directions on Saturday to all district hospital and medical colleges in the state to come up with PICU on priority basis . “The CM directed that creation of PICU and training of staff, like paediatricians, technicians and medical staff, should go on simultaneously. He also directed that two community health centres in each district should also come up with PICU and separate staff should be made available for their operation. All the women hospitals in each district should be roped in for treatment of women and children,” read a statement issued by the chief minister’s office on Saturday. According to state control room figures, the number of active cases stood at 309 on March 31, which spiked to 6,645 on April 30. As on Saturday (May 15) , there were 4,320 active cases. “One of the major factors that has helped bring cases under control is starting early treatment and distributing a medical kit, containing essential medicines required in Covid-19 treatment, free of cost. About 60,000 medical kits have been distributed so far. We are also taking other initiatives to control the infection in the rural areas,” said Ghaziabad district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey. The kit distribution, which started on April 27, sees around 5,000 disbursal per day on an average. It contains prescription, along with medicines for patients having symptoms and also for those staying in home-isolation. To help Covid-19 patients in rural areas, the administration has also decided to open up oxygen cylinder refilling facilities at Dasna, Loni, Modinagar, Muradnagar and Khoda. The Ghaziabad municipal corporation is already providing the refilling facility to patients with as many as 1,543 cylinders refilled and handed over to patients between May 5 and May 14. “Similar facilities, each equipped to refill 25-30 cylinders, will also come up at the local body offices at Dasna, Loni, Muradnagar and Khoda. We have also decided to open referral facilities at Muradnagar, Loni, Dasna and Modinagar with 25-30 beds in the first batch. The facilities will be made operational in the next two to three days,” said Krishna Karunesh, officiating district magistrate. Karunesh added efforts are also on to identify panchayat clusters in bigger villages where isolation centres with 5-10 beds can come up and oxygen cylinders can be placed for patients. In rural areas, April has seen the maximum cases with 644 in Loni, 451 in Modinagar, 445 in Muradnagar, 110 in Khoda and 57 in Bhojpur,besides 406 in Dasna.The Covid-19 cases have increased further in the rural area so far in May. The data compiled for the first 11 days of May by the health department indicates that there were 262 cases in Loni, 557 in Modinagar, 480 in Muradnagar, 71 in Khoda and 80 in Bhojpur besides 356 in Dasna.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-administration-plans-paediatric-icu-ward-for-children-101621191127548.html
17-05-2021||Noida||Second wave of Covid-19 under control, says UP CM||Ghaziabad: Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, during his visit to Ghaziabad Sunday evening, said that the present wave of Covid-19 infections in the state is under control and directed officials to continue with the strategy of aggressively tracing, testing and treating patients. The CM also focussed on increasing the role of “nigrani samitis” in both rural and urban areas.The nigrani samitis are groups of officials, local councillors and other public representatives who operate in respective areas to deal with Covid-related issues. Speaking at the district headquarters in Ghaziabad, the CM said that during the first wave of Covid last year, there were apprehensions that would be one lakh active cases in the state in August and September.“However, with collective efforts, we were able to control the upper limit of active cases to a maximum of about 67,000, while the most cases seen in a day were 7,200. In the first wave, there was more need of L1 category Covid beds, which we created to the tune of 1.16 lakh, while 23,000 beds of L2/L3 category were also created,” the CM said. The L1, L2 and L3 hospitals were created last year as part of the UP government’s three-tier structure to deal with Covid cases. The L1 hospitals are generally for asymptomatic cases while L2 hospitals deal with patients having mild to moderate symptoms. The L3 hospitals deal with severe Covid cases. The CM said that experts had opined that after April 25, UP will see one lakh new cases per day. “But again we have been able to control the second wave and the peak is also under control. Now, we have the capacity to conduct two-and-a-half to three lakh tests per day and demand for L1 category beds is low. So, during this wave, we created another 80,000 L2/L3 category beds as needed,” the CM added. He said that on April 24, there were 38,055 cases per day in UP, which was the highest in this wave, and now the state has about 10,682 daily cases (as of May 16, as per state control room records). He added that the state launched an aggressive strategy of tracing, testing and treating which has reduced the number of active cases. “We conducted 1.25 lakh tests per day in March and at present this capacity has been doubled. We are also working on a plan for creation of separate wards for post-Covid complications for recovered patients and their treatment will be done free-of-cost. To increase the supply of oxygen, nine oxygen plants are being constructed in Ghaziabad and overall, 35 oxygen plants are being constructed in Meerut division (including Ghaziabad and GB Nagar),” the CM added. He said that he visited Bhowapur village in Ghaziabad during his visit and said the focus is now on rural areas where people from low-income groups, Divyangs and others will be able to get their vaccination registration done through common service centres. The district officials said that the CM directed that the works done by nigrani samitis – about 447 in Ghaziabad including 161 in rural areas – should continue. “The CM has given directions that the works should continue. We have also decided that the nigrani samitis will now speak daily to the Integrated Covid Command and Control Centre and will also hold daily meetings and the decisions will be documented on a daily basis. We are also roping in our booth level officers to filter out suspected cases and these efforts will continue,” Ghaziabad district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey, said.The officials of the health department said that the CM also stressed that the free-of-cost medical kit distribution should also be done through the nigrani samitis who are in direct touch with local residents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/second-wave-of-covid-19-under-control-says-up-cm-101621191007509.html
