18-05-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad admin starts special initiative for families who lost sole earning members to Covid||GHAZIABAD: Seventeen-year-old Suryansh Sharma lost his father to Covid-19 on May 11. The schoolboy had no idea about necessary certificates required to get the insurance and other claims after his father’s death. “A lot of legal work was required to gather necessary certificates and other legal documents. But, it was the Ghaziabad administration that appointed a special officer to smoothen the process of paperwork. The officer not only fast-tracked all the clearances, the government officials came to our home directly to collect the papers. I got all the certificates on Monday. My mother is still recovering from the infection,” Suryansh said. Similarly, 13-year-old Devesh Kumar, who lost his father on May 14, said that the dedicated officer of the district administration helped him complete all the formalities on Tuesday. “I’ll be getting the required certificates and documents tomorrow. I’ve no words of gratitude for the DM,” he said. To help out the families who have lost their only earning members to the infection, the district administration has started a programme named ‘always with you’, in which one dedicated officer will be appointed as ‘prashasan mitra’ to such families. Ghaziabad district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said that as many families have lost their only earning members to Covid-19, the district administration launched the initiative to reach out to the people in distress. “Going to various offices to obtain the necessary nominee or heir certificates needed for claiming insurance money and pension funds, among others, is almost impossible for young children or women in the ongoing corona curfew. So, we decided to appoint one dedicated officer from the administration – ‘prashasan mitra’ -- to ease the process of obtaining necessary certificates,” Pandey said. “The officer has to ensure that the staff of all departments concerned collect the necessary papers from the victim’s family. After that, it is the duty of that officer to deliver the requisite certificates to the dependants within a day or two,” he said. The DM further said that to avail this benefit, the dependant of the family has to send an e-mail to alwayswithyoudmghaziabad@gmail.com, with their address and phone numbers. “After that, we’ll immediately appoint an officer for such families. The officer will have to ensure the delivery of all necessary certificates,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-admin-starts-special-initiative-for-families-who-lost-sole-earning-members-to-covid-101621361054040.html
18-05-2021||Noida||Second wave worse for children, shelter and rescue requirements on the rise||Noida: The second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic is proving worse for children in Gautam Budh Nagar, with requests for rescue and shelter are on the rise, according to data from the district Childline. There have been 21 requests for rescue in April this year compared to eight in April 2020, showed the data. The requests for shelter (temporary rehabilitation) were also higher. There have been four requests for shelter in April this year, while no such request was made in the same month last year, as per the Childline data.Overall, there were 25 shelter requests and 196 rescue calls between April and December 2020. Till April this year, there have been nine shelter requests and 124 rescue calls. Incidentally, GB Nagar had reported just 100 Covid-19 cases (no death) in April 2020, while the number of positive cases in April this year was 15,232 that included 121 deaths.“Most of these cases are related to children being abandoned by their families. Just last week, we were informed about an abandoned six-year-old child with special needs. So far no one has come forward for him. However, we are prepared to handle any such cases,” said Satya Prakash, programme manager, FXB Suraksha India, the NGO managing the district Childline.The experts claim that majority cases are coming from rural belts which can be attributed to a rise in the number of Covid-19 cases in these areas.“The cases of domestic child abuse are also coming to light now. The initial phases of lockdown saw families enjoying that time. However, now the stress has begun to catch up and we are getting calls for abuse from children. At least five cases have already come to our attention in the last two months,” said Prakash.During the current lockdown which began from April 30, at least 80 calls (till May 17) related to the poor nutrition of children have been reported.“The pattern of the infections spread across families puts kids in a vulnerable position and we are working to help out as many as possible,” said Prakash.On April 29, a helpline (9870395200) was issued by the Noida police for volunteers to provide support to children who have either lost their parents to Covid or whose infected families are unable to care for them. “So far, we have more than 70 volunteers who are ready to provide all sorts of support like medicines, transportation, accommodation and even adoption. We are working on measures to identify beneficiaries specially in rural belts where such cases often go unreported. We will rope in anganwadis and village-level units as well for this,” said Vrinda Shukla, deputy commissioner of police (women and child safety).The officials said that 10 cases have been reported since April 29 where children were in need of resources. Most of them revolved around food or medicine requirements. “There was one case in Greater Noida where siblings aged 10 and 8years lost their parents to Covid-19. They are now in the care of grandparents and we are working on sponsoring at least their education,” said Shukla.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/second-wave-worse-for-children-shelter-and-rescue-requirements-on-the-rise-101621360993952.html
18-05-2021||Noida||Stillbirths higher among Covid-positive pregnant women in second wave||Gynaecologists in Noida and Ghaziabad have reported a rise in stillbirths among pregnant women who either had Covid-19 or recovered from it in the second wave that hit the country in April. The deaths occur mostly in those women whose condition deteriorates suddenly into severe form of the illness, and that most recover without reporting complications, doctors said. They added that without a proper scientific study, it’d not be possible to establish how widespread the cases were or how the disease was linked to stillbirths.While miscarriages occur between the first and third month of pregnancy, stillbirths -- medically called intrauterine fetal deaths (IUFDs) -- mostly happens beyond at a more advanced stage after the second trimester (24 weeks). Gynaecologist Dr. Manisha Ranjan said that about 10 percent of her patients since April reported sudden IUFDs.“Last time, none of our Covid pregnant patients had suffered IUFDs. However this year, not just me but a number of my colleagues too have reported this and miscarriages among these patients. Covid-19 is causing severe vasculitis (inflammation of the blood vessels) among pregnant women which is leading to IUFD cases where the suddenly the patient is losing their baby even in the third trimester,” said Dr Ranjan, Consultant Gynaecologist & Obstetrician from Motherhood Hospital, Noida.She added that maternal mortality rate too has also increased. “Patients’ condition deteriorates suddenly. I lost two patients in the last one month this way,” she said.Dr Neha Mishra, Gynaecologist at Government Institute of Medical Sciences, Greater Noida also agreed.“We haven’t seen many cases of miscarriages among Covid-positive pregnant women but it seems that it is affecting the fetus in the advance stages of pregnancy,” she said. “We have seen three cases of IUFD since April. We lost two Covid-positive women who were in last trimester too.”Lack of oxygen was another reason was a reason that could contribute to the deaths, said Dr Aradhna Singh, Gynaecologist at Fortis Hospital, Noida.“It is not that all pregnant patients are suffering from severe form of Covid, there are several who developed just mild symptoms and their babies turned out fine too,” said Dr Aradhna Singh. “If the mother is unable to get oxygen, the baby also doesn’t get it which leads to stillbirths. I have had three such cases.” At Yashoda Hospital & Research Centre, Nehru Nagar, the gynaecology department head reported six cases of IUFD. “In three cases, the fetus died in the fifth or sixth month, while the rest died in the eighth or ninth month,” said Dr Shashi Arora, head of department of obstetrics, gynaecology & IVF and vice chairperson of the hospital.In March, in a research paper in the medical journal The Lancet, doctors reviewed of 40 studies from 17 countries and found that maternal deaths and stillbirths had risen by a third. The authors pointed to a disruption to services due to lockdown and the fear of attending healthcare facilities.Dr. Ranjana Becon, Gynecologist at Columbia Asia Hospital, Ghaziabad said more studies were required.“There is no empirical evidence right now to establish the connection between Covid-19 and these deaths, but Covid seems to be the only reason why healthy pregnancies are ending like this,” said Dr Becon, adding that there had been five IUFDs at the hospital.“Yes, incidents of IUFDs among Covid-posititve pregnant women have increased this year by 5-10 percent. Stress or raised level of D-Dimer which causes thrombosis (formation of blood clots) in vessels leading to pregnancy loss could be a cause. However, more evidence based research is required to establish this,” said Dr Deepa, senior gynaecologist at Yashoda Hospital, Kaushambi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/stillbirths-higher-among-covid-positive-pregnant-women-in-second-wave-101621360933971.html
18-05-2021||Noida||Now, auto-ambulances will provide aid to Covid patients in Noida||The Noida Traffic Police department has launched auto-rickshaw ambulances to provide additional support for Covid-19 patients in the city.The service can be availed by calling the helpline 9971009001. The autos have been equipped with oxygen cylinders, pulse-oximeters, regulators, masks, PPE kits, etc. while the drivers have been provided with basic patient care training by medical professionals from Fortis hospital.“There are 20 such autos that have been converted to ambulances. They will ferry patients to hospitals. Of these, five have started operation and gradually when we have more equipment, we will launch the rest as well,” said deputy commissioner of police, traffic, Ganesh Saha.Just like the pricing cap on ambulances, these autos also have fixed rates- ₹500 for 10 kilometres and ₹20 for every subsequent kilometre.Officials are hopeful that this will help in easing the pressure on ambulances and will eventually help the rural belts as well. “The personnel have been trained in basic life support, operate an oxygen cylinder, measure the pulse, SPo2 [oxygen saturation level] and blood pressure of the patients along with how to safeguard themselves against infection,” said a Fortis hospital spokesperson. Hardeep Singh, Zonal Director, Fortis Noida said, “We are proud of the collaboration with the Noida Traffic Police. In preparation for the coming months and the ongoing case load, the auto-ambulance initiative is imperative. It will allow patients from every part of the city to avail emergency services and reach the hospital for treatment.” In addition to this, Noida police in a joint efforts with NGOs and other institutions has also launched a website ‘www.swaasthasewa.com’ to help people in need of food, oxygen, plasma or medical consultation. “We urge the Noida residents to get associated with the website. People can ask for help on the site as well as become volunteers to provide help,” said a police spokesperson. Helplines have also been created for an oxygen bank and food (9971009001).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/now-auto-ambulances-will-provide-aid-to-covid-patients-in-noida-101621359914774.html
18-05-2021||Noida||Three women among six held for running sex racket in Noida||Noida: Six people, including three women, were nabbed on Monday night for their alleged involvement in a sex racket. Police said that the suspects were arrested following a raid at a rented house in C block of Sector 122.According to police officials, it was a small operation running from the rented accommodation. “They did not advertise in any public domain, but rather relied on verbal publicity in a small circle. The house was rented by one of the women suspects,” said Jitendra Kumar Dikshit, station house officer, Phase 3 police station.The three men who were apprehended were customers, police said, adding that the operation was charging ₹1,000 for an hour.“We had a tip-off about the movement of different men and women from the house every few hours. It was more prominent during the lockdown. A raid was conducted at the house and the suspects were nabbed. Only the three working women and customers were found. We are working to find out if more persons are involved in the racket,” said another police official.According to the officials, the husband of the woman renting the house was visiting his hometown and police are trying to ascertain his role in the operation. It appears that none of the women working there was under duress, said police.All the six suspects were booked under relevant sections of the Immoral Traffic (Prevention) Act, 1956 at Phase 3 police station, the officials said, adding that police recovered both used and unused contraceptives in the raid, along with four cellphones, some documents and ₹9,860 cash.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/three-women-among-six-held-for-running-sex-racket-in-noida-101621359854046.html
18-05-2021||Noida||Biker hit by speeding luxury car, dies||Noida: A speeding luxury vehicle mowed down a 52-year-old man in Greater Noida West on Tuesday afternoon in a hit-and-run case, said police.Police identified the dead man by his single name as Ramniwas, a resident of Itehra village in Greater Noida West. According to police, he was on his motorcycle when the accident occurred at around 1.45 pm.“A speeding Jaguar hit his bike near the Jalpura cut. Locals rushed him to a nearby hospital where he was declared brought dead. A team was rushed to the spot as soon as they were informed,” said Rishipal, senior sub-inspector (SSI), Bisrakh police station.Police said that the driver of the vehicle abandoned the car and fled. Police ran a trace on the number plate and found that it belonged to a Noida resident who they were yet to arrest. The victim’s body was sent for an autopsy following which it was handed over to the family.Based on the family’s complaint, a case has been registered against the driver at the Bisrakh police station under sections 279 (rash driving) and 304A (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code.“Efforts are on to trace the driver and we will nab him soon,” said the SSI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/biker-hit-by-speeding-luxury-car-dies-101621359794508.html
18-05-2021||Noida||Cyclone Tauktae’s impact: Noida to see good rainfall||Noida: The city on Tuesday witnessed light rain under the impact of cyclone Tauktae, which made landfall in Gujarat on Monday night, and after weakening considerably, is currently moving inwards towards the National Capital Region. The drizzling brought down the Noida’s maximum temperature by seven degrees Celsius to 30.6 degrees, with the India Meteorological Department (IMD) predicting good rainfall on Wednesday. According to IMD, the maximum temperature will hover around 30 degrees Celsius in the next two days. “Moderate rain at most places in northern region with isolated heavy rains over Delhi-NCR has been forecasted for Wednesday,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of regional weather forecasting centre, IMD. An advisory issued by IMD said Tauktae and its remnants would interact with a western disturbance trough, creating an interaction zone. This weather phenomenon is likely to form above Delhi and adjoining areas, resulting in heavy rainfall in the region. According to weather analysts, there are chances of intense rainfall over parts of NCR, including Noida, as an induced effect of cyclonic circulation over northern Rajasthan. “Low pressure cyclonic circulation due to the induced effect of cyclone Tauktae will meet the western disturbance, leading to rain in the region. The effect is likely to last till May 20,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice-president (meteorology and climate change) at Skymet, a private weather forecasting agency. Cyclone Tauktae intensified into an “extremely severe cyclonic storm” and made landfall on Gujarat coast late Monday with wind speeds between 150kmph and 160kmph. On Tuesday, Noida recorded maximum and minimum temperatures at 30.6 degrees Celsius and 27.8 degrees Celsius respectively, against 37.7 degrees Celsius and 25.3 degrees Celsius a day earlier. At the Safdarjung monitoring station, considered average for the NCR, the maximum and minimum temperatures were recorded at 30.8 degrees Celsius -- nine degrees Celsius lower than the season’s average and 22.3 degrees Celsius, the season’s average, respectively. Meanwhile, the air quality of Noida, Greater Noida and Ghaziabad saw improvement on Tuesday. According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), the air quality index (AQI) of Noida on Tuesday was 108 against 177 (both ‘moderate’) a day earlier. The AQI of Greater Noida was 79 (‘good’) against 202 (‘poor’) a day earlier, while Ghaziabad recorded an AQI of 122 (‘moderate’) on Tuesday against 238 (‘poor’) a day earlier. According to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), the air quality is likely to improve in coming days. “Surface winds are southwesterly and moderate. Thunderstorms with gusty winds are likely at isolated places with isolated dust peaks for shorter time period. Overall AQI is forecasted to marginally improve and stay in the low end of moderate to satisfactory for next two days,” said a SAFAR statement on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/cyclone-tauktae-s-impact-noida-to-see-good-rainfall-101621359793883.html
18-05-2021||Noida||Noida: Discom decides not to cut supply to defaulters||NOIDA: The power distribution company Pashchimanchal Vidyut Vitran Nigam Limited (PVVNL) has decided to stop the disconnection drive against around 50,000 Noida consumers who together had a total outstanding bill of over ₹200 crore. PVVNL (Noida) chief engineer, Virendra Nath Singh, said that the decision was taken to ensure uninterrupted power supply during the pandemic. “To make optimum use of our workforce in providing 24x7 power supply during this ongoing crisis, we have decided to cancel our disconnection drive against nearly 50,000 consumers, who owe over ₹200 crore... since last one year. The discom had already issued notices to them and they (still) didn’t make any payment,” he said. Of the 50,000 defaulters, over 1,500 had bills between ₹1 lakh and ₹20 lakh each, he said. “Similarly, we have 12,000 defaulters who have not cleared their dues of ₹50,000 to ₹99,000. The remaining defaulters have outstanding dues of ₹10,000 to ₹49,000,” he said. PVVNL has nearly 325,000 consumers in Gautam Budh Nagar. “Massive disconnection drive against these defaulters was carried out in the district in December last year. But, after getting the instruction from the energy minister, we decided to call it off,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-discom-decides-not-to-cut-supply-to-defaulters-101621359674995.html
18-05-2021||Noida||Man found dead in Noida, police suspect his friends||A day after the body of a 38-year-old man was found in a house in Noida’s Sector 35, police on Monday said that they have identified the victim’s three friends who allegedly killed him after an argument.The victim was identified as Raju, a native of Jalpaiguri in West Bengal who was currently living in Delhi where he worked as a labour contractor. According to police, information had come in around 2pm on Sunday about the body in a house by the landlord.Police officials said that the body was sent for an autopsy. “The autopsy concluded the cause of death to be an ante-mortem head injury. We have informed the victim’s family and they are on their way,” said Rajneesh Verma, assistant commissioner of police (ACP), zone 1.The officials said that one of the suspects, who was the tenant in the Sector 35 house, is also a labour contractor.“At least three people and the victim were hanging out at the place and drinking alcohol. It seems that there was a disagreement, following which Raju was hit on the head by a heavy object by the suspects, after which they fled,” said Verma.He said that the suspects are from West Bengal and some Northeastern state, and it is a possibility that they all fled to their hometowns. “Teams have been dispatched to look for them. A probe is underway and all angles are being explored,” the ACP said.The officials said that a case of murder will be registered at Sector 24 police station once the victim’s family gives a complaint.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/man-found-dead-in-noida-police-suspect-his-friends-101621274770734.html
