19-05-2021||Noida||In Ghaziabad, civic agency’s teams step in as kin prefer to bid adieu from afar at crematoriums||Ghaziabad: Suraj Kumar is one of the non-regular staff members of a small, six-member team roped in by the Ghaziabad municipal corporation to make arrangements for the cremation of Covid-related and suspected deaths at the Hindon cremation ground. He says that the effect of the pandemic is such that families stay away from handling or touching bodies, with him and his team members providing them all possible help.An HT visit to the Hindon cremation ground revealed that several families preferred to stay away from handling bodies of their kin or even placing them on the platforms due to fear of infection. The bodies of suspected cases, too, arrived packed in bags, as per Covid protocols. “They look upon us to help them out and we don’t deny them. The situation is such that people are scared. But this is work for us. We unload bodies and place them on platforms, placing wood over them to start the cremation. Only those family members come near the bodies which have PPE kits on. Still, they keep a safe distance. Our team works in time slots, and we handle the burning pyres as late as midnight,” said Suraj Kumar, one of the members of the team at the Hindon cremation ground.“Generally, kin leave after the pyre is lit. It usually takes four-six hours thereafter, but people leave within half-an-hour to one hour, maximum. They do not want to stay in a high-risk area for long. But our team works in time slots and ensures till midnight to ensure blaze is spread to all parts the entire body. We also ensure that masks and PPE kits are disposed of safely. Sometimes, they are thrown about in the open, but we take care of them,” Kumar added.A family which arrived at the cremation ground to collect the ashes stayed away from the platform and a majority of the work was taken up by the team members for them. “They are really a great help as people stay away from the platforms and some are scared to even get close to the pyres. The team performs many tasks during the last rites and helps out families who have suffered losses. The situation is such that people do not want to even touch the bodies,” the family member of a person who died of Covid, requesting anonymity, said. The officials of the corporation said that the team members were not regular staff of the corporation but were roped in under the “Kendriya Ajivika Mission” scheme, which would earn them a monthly sum of about ₹8000 each. “We have also roped in more team members to look after the drinking water and parking arrangements and another team of three-four is working at the other crematorium at Noor Nagar. We have given them protection kits, masks and sanitizers for safety. This team was roped in this year as the burden increased suddenly during April, and they are managing the work in a proper manner,” said Pramod Kumar, additional municipal commissioner. Mohammad Yusuf, another team member at Hindon, said that given the present situation, the team members go out of the way to help families. “Like in cases when one has to collect ashes, people prefer to pick only a few and our team helps them out with the rest. Cleaning platforms and preparing them for the next cremation is also part of the work. The remnants of the ashes also need to be disposed of safely. It is now a routine job for us and if we begin to feel scared, we will not be able to perform our duties. Helping out families in their painful moments in turn helps us be at peace,” he added.Officials said they have worked out a plan for testing and vaccination of the team members. According to officials familiar with the development, cremation of about 370 Covid-19 and Covid-suspected cases took place at the Hindon cremation ground in April. “At present, the numbers have reduced to a maximum of 15 cremations of confirmed or suspected cases per day. The team is still on the job. We will get them tested at regular intervals and will also ensure that they get vaccinated at the earliest, as their job is of such nature that it requires their regular health monitoring,” the additional municipal commissioner said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/in-ghaziabad-civic-agency-s-teams-step-in-as-kin-prefer-to-bid-adieu-from-afar-at-crematoriums-101621448855111.html
19-05-2021||Noida||Black fungus drug in shortage in Noida, Ghaziabad||Noida/Ghaziabad: Patients suffering from Mucormycosis or black fungus, as it is commonly dubbed, are having a hard time fetching drugs for its treatment in Noida and Ghaziabad. Doctors are prescribing the drug Liposomal Amphotericin B to such patients. However, SOS (save our souls) calls looking for the same have increased on social media since the last week.Sector 61 resident Sukhpal Singh Toor said he was unable to find the injection for an acquaintance of his in Noida for two days.“I made several calls all over the city looking for the injection but it is not available anywhere. We ultimately had to source the injection from Delhi,” he said.Doctors also said that patients are getting frustrated over the unavailability of the drug. “Number of black fungus patients has increased in our OPD since last week. However, patients are unable to procure the drug, Liposomal Amphotericin B, used to treat it. The shortage is not just in Noida but seems like the problem persists all over the National Capital Region,” said Dr Sudhir Gupta, chest physician and bronchoscopist at Kailash Hospital, Sector 27, Noida.The drug is being prescribed in large quantities, which makes it further difficult to procure, say kin of patients. “My sister-in-law was prescribed 30 vials of Liposomal Amphotericin B as the fungus has almost reached the eyes. We could only buy around 10 such vials from Delhi,” said Diwarkar Varshney, a resident of Vaishali, Ghaziabad.According to doctors, earlier the drug used to be available at pharmacies and hospitals. “This drug was very low in demand earlier but due to the sudden spike in cases, it has gone out of stock. However, it is available at our hospitals,” said Dr DK Gupta, chairman and managing director, Felix Hospital, Sector 137, Noida.Dr Savyasachi Saxena, an ENT surgeon at Fortis Hospital, Noida added that while OPD patients are unable to find the drug in Noida, “the injections are available at the hospital as of now and are being given to IPD patients. However, OPD patients are unable to find the drug anywhere else,” he said.Doctors said that black marketing of the drug seems to have begun as well. “I had prescribed Amphotericin B Deoxycholate to a patient on Tuesday that is generally available for ₹300 per vial. However, he told me that he could not find it in Ghaziabad and had to procure it for ₹3,000 from a seller in Delhi,” said Dr Nripen Vishnoi, senior ENT and cochlear implant surgeon, Yashoda Super Speciality Hospital Ghaziabad.The Gautam Budh Nagar administration has requested the Uttar Pradesh Medical Supply Corporation Limited to provide the drug to the district. “We have sent a request to the UPSMC to procure Liposomal Amphotericin B. We hope that the district will not have a shortage of this drug,” said Suhas LY, district magistrate, GB Nagar, adding that the total tally of black fungus cases in the district has not been documented officially.Meanwhile, Ghaziabad district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said: “We are aware that there is a shortage of the drug for black fungus in the district. For this, we have created a list of verified distributors of Liposomal Amphotericin which will be issued to the public soon.”As per doctors, there are generally three types of Amphotericin B available in the market and patients who have been prescribed Liposomal Amphotericin B should not confuse it with the other two variants.“The first variant is the Amphotericin B (conventional) or Deoxycholate, which is available for ₹300 per vial in the market. However, this one is not prescribed to patients of black fungus because it can result in kidney damage, as most patients of Mucormycosis are diabetic. However if the patient is taken care of properly by the physician and if they do not have a history of kidney issues, they can be administered this drug,” said Dr Vishnoi.“The second variant is lipid complex Amphotericin B, which is also rarely used because of its toxicity. The most commonly used is the third variant, Liposomal Amphotericin B, which is renal safe and is being commonly prescribed by doctors to treat black fungus patients,” he added.One 50 mg vial of Liposomal Amphotericin B is generally available in the market for ₹6,000. However, since its dose is high, patients are prescribed multiple vials at once.“The dosage of Liposomal Amphotericin B is prescribed at five-seven milligram per kilogram of the patient’s weight per day. As a result, if a person weighs 60 kg, they will need 300 mg of the drug; so a patient has to buy six vials a day which comes to around ₹30,000,” said Dr Vishnoi.For mild cases of Mucormycosis or patients who have completed one course of Amphotericin B, Posaconazole tablets or Noxafil (posaconazole) syrups are prescribed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/black-fungus-drug-in-shortage-in-noida-ghaziabad-101621448795134.html
19-05-2021||Noida||Test positivity rate at 5-week low in Ghaziabad, experts say peak almost over||Ghaziabad: The weekly average test positivity rate (TPR) in the district, which started rising from mid of April, has come down to five-week low at 5.37% during May 13-19, indicating that Covid-19 cases have started to decline. According to an analysis of the health department records for five weeks from April 15 to May 19, average TPR started with 7.34% in the week April 15 to 21 (6,212 average tests yielding 456 positive cases) and fell to 5.37% in the last week (6,754 tests giving 363 cases). The World Health Organization (WHO) states that the positivity rate needs to come down below 5% for the outbreak to be considered under control.During the five weeks, the average TPR had increased to 13.04% (730 cases out of 5,598 tests) from April 22-28. It further peaked to a new high of 40.73% during April 29 to May 5 when 2,660 tests gave 1,083 positive cases. The test positivity rate is the ratio of positive cases resulting out of tests conducted in a day. The district was given a daily target to conduct 1,700 RT-PCR tests and 3,500 tests through rapid kits. On May 11, the target was revised by the government to 2,900 RT-PCR tests and 5,250 rapid antigen tests. The district implemented the order from May 16. District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said that the distribution of medicine kits has proved a great help in early treatment. “We have been largely able to control the spread of infection which was high from mid of April to first week of May. The number of cases is on a decline. Now, we are focussing on testing in rural areas. We have 161 gram panchayats, and we have given two days to our officials to open up 140 health sub-centres where testing will start,” he said. Pandey said that once the sub-centres start, the focus will be initially to screen suspected cases with rapid antigen kits and later RT-PCR tests will also be conducted. “The Auxiliary Nurse Midwife (ANM) workers will be trained for the purpose of testing, and we are also hiring more lab technicians. The sub-centres will be monitored by the primary health centres of the area,” he added. Experts said that though the cases seem to be declining, examining further two weeks would indicate whether the situation is of a decline or a plateau. “The peak seems to be over. The overall figures indicate that we are either at a plateau situation or there is a decline. At present, only a few positive cases are coming in, but a high number of patients are still in ICU or on ventilators due to severity of infection. So, we need to examine situation for another two weeks to safely say that there is a decline,” said Dr VB Jindal, former president of Indian Medical Association (Ghaziabad). Augmentation of oxygen capacityThe DM said that the district has decided to augment the capacity of the oxygen plant at Bhojpur and also to open a new plant at Modinagar. “The augmentation of the existing plant will be over two acres of land for which we have received a proposal. Also, there is a proposal for a new plant at Modinagar. Work for the other nine new plants is in progress and will be completed shortly. We have also asked the hospitals having more than 50 beds to install oxygen plants. All these measures will give a major boost to oxygen capacity in Ghaziabad,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/test-positivity-rate-at-5-week-low-in-ghaziabad-experts-say-peak-almost-over-101621448735083.html
19-05-2021||Noida||Noida: Four held for black marketing oxygen cylinders, medical equipment||Noida: Four people were arrested on Wednesday for allegedly black marketing oxygen cylinders and medical equipment in the city. Police said that the suspects would buy an oxygen cylinder for ₹12,000 and sell the same to the relatives of a Covid-19 patient for ₹40,000-45,000. Police have seized one 42-litre oxygen cylinder, four oxygen masks, three cylinder regulators, five mobile phones, and two sedan cars from the possession of the suspects.The suspects were identified as Himanshu Shukla, Waseem Alvi and Soheb, all natives of Uttar Pradesh, and Aditya Mudgal, a Delhi resident. According to police officials, they were involved in the operation for at least two months. “They would purchase oxygen cylinders and other medical equipment like oxygen masks and regulators from dealers at lower prices and then sell them to the public at very higher rates. They reached out to those in need through social media,” said Jitendra Kumar Dikshit, station house officer, Phase 3 police station. The officials said they had a tip-off about the illicit activities of the gang, following which a decoy customer contacted Himanshu who demanded ₹45,000 for an oxygen cylinder and the deal was finalized at ₹39,000. The four were nabbed from near the Garhi roundabout on the FNG road, they said. The suspects were booked under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Epidemic Act. A search is on for other accomplices of the gang, said police. All the suspects were produced before a magistrate and later sent to jail, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-four-held-for-black-marketing-oxygen-cylinders-medical-equipment-101621447954926.html
19-05-2021||Noida||25-year-old woman ends life in Noida||Noida: A 25-year-old woman, who was pursuing doctor of medicine (MD) from a private university in Greater Noida, allegedly took her own life in her house under Sector 24 police jurisdiction.The incident came to light on late Tuesday evening when the woman’s brother found her body in a room on the first floor of the house, police said.“The family then informed us and a team was rushed to the spot. The woman had shot herself with her father’s licensed revolver. A suicide note was recovered from the spot,” said Rajneesh Verma, assistant commissioner of police, zone 1.Police officials said that nothing incriminating was found in the three-page suicide note. There were stanzas of a poem and information related to donation of her body following her death, the officials said.“The family did not hear the shot and they claimed that everything was fine with her. We are waiting for her phone records to get more information. A probe in the case is underway,” said the ACP.Noida does not have a dedicated helpline to deal with such situations. A few major suicide prevention helplines are 011-23389090 from Sumaitri (Delhi-based) and 044-24640050 from Sneha Foundation (Chennai-based).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/25yearold-woman-ends-life-in-noida-101621447894902.html
19-05-2021||Noida||Three security guards killed in accident on Noida expressway||Noida: Three security guards, on their way to work, were killed after being hit by a speeding car on the Noida-Greater Noida expressway on Tuesday. According to police, the three men on foot were trying to cross the expressway near Sector 125 when the accident took place. They worked as guards at a private company in Sector 125, police said.The deceased were identified as Ompal (55), Jagannath (51) and Krishanpal (38), all residents of Sadarpur Colony in Sector 45. They were rushed to the nearby hospital where Ompal was declared brought dead, while the other two were referred to a higher centre in Delhi. They both died on Tuesday night while undergoing treatment, said police.“They were hit by a speeding Eeco van. It appears that the driver tried to apply brake but the sudden action caused the vehicle to flip over after it hit the three men,” said Azad Singh Tomar, station house officer, Sector 39 police station.Police officials said that the driver fled from the spot leaving his vehicle. The vehicle was seized and it has been traced to a Delhi resident, the officials said, adding that efforts are on to nab the suspect.Based on a complaint from Ompal’s family, a case has been registered at Sector 39 police station against the unidentified driver under sections 279 (rash driving) and 304A (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code.The bodies were handed over to the families following an autopsy, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/three-security-guards-killed-in-accident-on-noida-expressway-101621447835699.html
19-05-2021||Noida||Tauktae’s effect: Mercury falls 14°C below normal in Noida||Noida: The maximum temperature in Noida fell 14 degrees below normal on Wednesday, weather analysts said, as the remnants of cyclone Tauktae, which is passing over Delhi-NCR, brought heavy rain to the city. As a result, the air quality of Noida and its adjoining areas improved considerably on Wednesday, as per the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). The India Meteorological Department (IMD) officials said that the rainfall is likely to continue on Thursday.The maximum temperature in Noida on Wednesday was 23.6 degrees Celsius -- 14 degrees below normal-- and the minimum was 21.6 degrees Celsius, against a maximum and minimum reading of 30.6 degrees Celsius and 27.8 degrees Celsius on Tuesday. The data showed that the maximum temperature on Wednesday was down by seven degrees Celsius from Tuesday and by 14 degrees from Monday. At the Safdarjung monitoring station, the maximum temperature was 23.8 degrees Celsius – 16 degrees Celsius lower than the season’s average – and the minimum was 21.4 degrees Celsius, four degrees below the season’s average.The city saw an average rainfall of one millimetre till 8.30am on Wednesday. Data for the rest of the day for Noida is yet to be ascertained, experts said. Meanwhile, the average rainfall measured at the Safdarjung monitoring station in Delhi, considered an average for the National Capital Region, was 31.3mm between 8.30am and 5.30pm.According to the IMD, the mercury is expected to rise on Thursday, while a drizzle is likely to continue till the morning hours of Thursday. However, the skies will remain cloudy.“The heavy rainfall on Wednesday was the remnants of cyclone Tauktae, which after it subsided, formed low pressure spots, and induced a cyclonic circulation over north-east Rajasthan and southern Haryana. Thursday will see light rain in the morning hours but the mercury will hover around 30 degrees Celsius,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre, IMD.Meanwhile, the air quality of Noida, Greater Noida and Ghaziabad improved to the ‘satisfactory’ category.According to the CPCB, the air quality index (AQI) of Noida on Wednesday, on a scale of 0 to 500, was 78 against 108 a day earlier. The AQI of Greater Noida was 72 against 79 a day earlier. Ghaziabad recorded an AQI of 73 on Wednesday against 122 a day earlier. An AQI level up to zero to 50 is considered ‘good’, 50 to 100 is considered ‘satisfactory’, between 101 and 200 is ‘moderate’, between 201 and 300 is ‘poor’, between 301 and 400 is ‘very poor’ and above 400 is considered ‘severe’.According to the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), the air quality is likely to marginally improve. “Surface winds are east-north-easterly and high. Widespread rainfall is likely for Wednesday and aerosol washout is expected. Overall AQI is forecasted to marginally improve and stay in the low end of ‘satisfactory’ to ‘good’ for Thursday and ‘satisfactory’ to ‘moderate’ on May 21 and 22,” said a SAFAR statement on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/tauktaes-effect-mercury-falls-14-c-below-normal-in-noida-101621447835013.html
19-05-2021||Noida||Noida to take stern action against quacks, rumour mongers||NOIDA: The Gautam Budh Nagar administration has directed the health department to take stern action against self-styled doctors, also known as “quacks”, in rural areas, who are allegedly duping gullible villagers at a time when the second wave of Covid-19 is wreaking havoc in many rural areas. The administration has also decided to book rumour mongers misleading people by spreading fake information through social media networks. The matter came to light on Tuesday when a 65-year-old man was found allegedly spreading false information about lack of treatment in Gopalgarh village under Jewar block in Greater Noida. Based on reports by the sub-divisional magistrate, who is also the Covid-19 incident commander of the area, the police have lodged a complaint against the man, who they said is the husband of a former pradhan of the village.District magistrate, Suhas LY, said that he had asked the chief medical officer (CMO) to launch a crackdown against quacks in the district under provisions of the Drugs and Magical Remedies (Objectionable Advertisements) Act, 1954. “Only enforcement of law can stop their activities. He has also been asked to hold awareness drives in villages. We’ve also received information that these quacks are turning villagers against vaccination, which would increase the immunity level among the people and subsequently hit their business,” he said. In the Gopalgarh incident, the DM said that the suspect allegedly said that a man had been receiving treatment from a quack under a neem tree in Greater Noida on May 14. “The incident commander in her probe found that the patient had undergone a rapid antigen testing and was provided an oxygen cylinder on May 14. He was also referred for treatment at the local health centre. The suspect said that despite that, the patient continued to take treatment by an unqualified doctor in that area. This is an attempt to taint the image of the government while spreading incorrect information,” he said, and added that the antigen report of that date states that the patient has tested negative for Covid-19. IF HE TESTED NEGATIVE THEN HOW WAS CYLINDER PROVIDED TO HIM??Dr Deepak Ohri, the CMO, said he has asked officials to launch a crackdown against such fake doctors in their respective areas. “Raiding teams have been formed on a large scale to take necessary action against such quacks and have also been asked to take the help of the concerned police station. They have also been told to issue legal notices to such quacks,” he said.District commissioner of police, Alok Singh, said that as per the provisions made under the Pandemic Act, the police will take adequate action against such persons. “The in-charge of Jewar primary health centre filed a complaint with the local police on Tuesday. An FIR will be filed against the suspect and under IPC sections 188, 269 and 270, and under sections of the Epidemic Diseases Act,” he said.When contacted, Dhirendra Singh, the BJP MLA from Jewar assembly constituency, said: “I am keeping a close tab on the testing and vaccination in my area and I appreciate the efforts being undertaken by the district administration,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-to-take-stern-action-against-quacks-rumour-mongers-101621447534812.html
