20-05-2021||Noida||Posing as decoy, Ghaziabad officials get two ambulance operators arrested for overcharging||Ghaziabad: Following complaints, Ghaziabad officials posed as decoy customers and conducted an investigation on two ambulance operators, who were arrested for allegedly charging exorbitant fares for transferring a patient from Ghaziabad to Bareilly, which is about 250km from the city. The rates for the ambulance had been fixed by the district magistrate according to an order issued on May 9. – ₹1500 for an oxygen ambulance for the first 10km, and ₹60 for per kilometre thereafter), non-oxygen ( ₹1000 for first 10km and ₹50 per km thereafter), ventilator supported ( ₹2000 for first 10kms and ₹7 per km thereafter), advanced life-support with doctor ( ₹4000 for first 10km and ₹75 per km thereafter) and even AC and non-AC vehicles for shifting bodies to the cremation ground. “The officials were asked to conduct checks after we received complaints of overcharging by ambulance operators. The two persons were arrested, and their vehicles were seized. The transport department officials are also checking if other ambulances of these operators violated any registration norms,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, DM. According to the team of officials which posed as a decoy, they contacted two ambulance operators at Lohiya Nagar over the phone. “We asked them for an ambulance to shift a patient to Bareilly. They told us the fare as ₹50,000 instead of the capped rate which is about ₹16,000 for an oxygen ambulance. Thereafter we said that we require a normal ambulance and they quoted ₹22000 to ₹24000 for the trip. We called them to an area near Sihani-Gate police station and got them arrested and their ambulances were also seized,” said one of the officers who led the team, requesting anonymity.“The owners of the ambulances are operating 11 such ambulances and we have asked the transport department to check their registrations and other compliances. If they are found erring, further action will be initiated,” the officer added. The police identified the two suspects as Hariom Yadav and Sarvesh Kumar. “Both were booked under section 151 of the CrPC and they both will be produced before the court of sub-divisional magistrate. The two ambulances involved were also seized,” said Krishna Gopal Sharma, SHO of Sihani-Gate police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/posing-as-decoy-ghaziabad-officials-get-two-ambulance-operators-arrested-for-overcharging-101621534304656.html
20-05-2021||Noida||Private institutions in Noida, Ghaziabad to help students who lost parents to Covid||Noida: Amid the prevailing Covid-19 crisis, some private schools and universities in Noida and Ghaziabad are extending a helping hand to those students who have lost one or both of their parents to the infection.While schools and universities are providing fee concession and counselling sessions to such students, some corporate firms are also providing financial and medical assistance to their employees in need.At Amity University in Noida Sector 127, the management has decided to sponsor the academic fees of a student who has lost one or both of their parents, till they complete their current degree at the institution.“Sadly, there are over 250 students, that we are aware of, from the university who have lost both their parents to Covid. There may be more. We feel it is our noble duty to stand by them during such a crisis. In any case, we give over ₹50 crore of scholarship to students and this initiative will be in addition to that,” said Dr Atul Chauhan, chancellor, Amity University.He added that the university also has a 24-hour counselling helpline which is available for all students and staff members.Some students of Shiv Nadar University in Greater Noida have also lost their parents to coronavirus this year. As per officials at the university, the management is providing the student financial assistance so they can continue their education.“Each student’s case is being reviewed by an internal committee based on individual circumstances, and the support may include but is not limited to waiver of tuition fees. Additionally, students are provided counselling support and access to on-campus clinical psychologists for mental well-being,” said a spokesperson at Shiv Nadar University. The university has over 2,500 students.At DPS Indirapuram in Ghaziabad, there are three students who have lost both their parents. A staff member of the school has also passed away due to Covid. “This year the pandemic took a turn for the worst and we have been standing by all our students and staff members to help them in any way required. As a policy, if we lose a staff member to Covid, their family is being provided with ₹5 lakh, and if a staff member lose their spouse to Covid, they are provided with ₹2 lakh,” said Girish Sachdeva, member of Managing Committee, DPS Indirapuram, Ghaziabad.He added that there are many students at the school who have lost their fathers who were sole earning members of their family. “We are waiving off the fee of such students for a year who are unable to pay,” he said. The school has 6,500 students.Meanwhile, Tech Mahindra, located in SEZ, Noida, has started the initiative of supporting the minor children of their employees who succumbed to coronavirus. The support will be given to children till they turn 18 years of age.“We have collaborated with Fortis Healthcare to organize vaccination drive for associates and their families and are also reimbursing vaccination cost for associates and third-party employees. Additionally, we have also converted our NSEZ campus into a 40-bed COVID care facility to provide care and medical help to associates, their families and the society at large,” said Harshvendra Soin, Global Chief People Officer & Head – Marketing, Tech Mahindra. The company is also investing in upskilling one member of the family of a deceased employee to make them employable and support their livelihood.Another firm in Greater Noida, CNH Industrial India, is providing financial assistance of ₹50,000 to all its employees who test positive or are home quarantined.“We have also forged a tie-up with Apollo Hospitals which has set up a dedicated 24x7 medical consultation helpline number for employees. A dedicated task force has been put in place to track all infected employees and arrange all the required assistance from coordinating with the hospital to arranging for beds, and procuring medicines, oxygen, etc.,” said Raunak Varma, country manager, CNH Industrial India.The second wave of coronavirus disease has badly affected many families in the two districts. While the death toll of Noida and Ghaziabad on April 1 was at 91 and 102, it has now reached 406 and 402 on May 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/private-institutions-in-noida-and-ghaziabad-extend-helping-hand-to-students-who-lost-parents-to-covid-101621534244643.html
20-05-2021||Noida||Dadri: Missing man found dead in fields, probe underway||Greater Noida: The body of a 32-year-old man, who had been missing since May 18, was found in fields owned by his family on Thursday morning in Greater Noida’s Dadri area.The victim was identified as Pawan, a farmer from Roopwas village. According to the police, the man had been missing for the past two days.“However, the family had not informed the authorities about this. He had gone out for errands and when he did not return, they started looking for him. On Thursday around 8am, a local saw his motorcycle near the family’s fields and informed them. They found his body after which a call was made to the police helpline,” said a police officer, requesting anonymity.Police said the autopsy report came late Thursday evening and it confirmed death by strangulation.“A case of murder (Indian Penal Code Section 302) has been registered station against unidentified person(s). We will take appropriate legal action,” said Rajveer Singh Chauhan, station house officer, Dadri police station.Police said all angles are being explored. The family has not shared any suspicions with the police. They have also denied any monetary disputes or personal enmity with anyone, said the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/dadri-missing-man-found-dead-in-fields-probe-underway-101621534124602.html
20-05-2021||Noida||Demand for medical oxygen drops in Gautam Budh Nagar||Noida: Demand for medical oxygen in Gautam Budh Nagar district has been on the decline and more Covid beds are now vacant as more and more patients have started recovering from the infection, officials said.While 125 Metric Tonnes (MT) of oxygen is required for all Covid beds with oxygen support in the district across its 27 Covid-dedicated hospitals, currently only 80 to 85 MT is being used as of now. A week earlier, the medical oxygen being used through liquid medical oxygen (LMO) plants or cylinders was 98.87 MT in the district.“Currently, the per day consumption of oxygen in between 80 to 85 MT across all 27 private and government hospitals treating Covid-19 patients, which is being fulfilled without issues, as the consumption has dropped due to slight drop in the number of fresh cases and increasing recovery rate. However, if we have to supply oxygen to all the available oxygen beds, we would require at least 125 MT of oxygen. For now, the situation is under control,” said Dr Sweta Khurana, nodal officer for oxygen supply, Gautam Budh Nagar. She added that while oxygen cylinders are available as well for patients, focus needs to be more on the stored LMO though plants.Officials also pointed out that now that oxygen supply is under control, more focus is required to ensure “a regulated supply of oxygen” and storage of LMO. “The situation began to improve from May 12, when oxygen started to be vacated in light of increasing recoveries. Focus is now towards ensuring a regulated supply of the oxygen which means a confirmed and guaranteed supply daily. For now the oxygen is being arranged by the district administration through different channels. However apart from Inox in Greater Noida, oxygen from other suppliers is not consistent and the quantity may vary from day to day. Also, we are focusing more on the storage of LMO,” said Khurana. On Thursday, there were 239 new cases in the district, while 436 were discharged over the past 24 hours. The total number of people discharged in the district so far stood at 55,520, as per the state bulletin. On May 12, the district had recorded 992 new cases, and 1228 recoveries. Back then, the tally for recoveries was 6,818 less, at 48,702.District divisional forest officer PK Srivastava, who had been looking after refilling of cylinders from Ghaziabad, concurred that the demand has dropped in the district. “By last week, we had to get approximately 1,200 D-type cylinders refilled from agencies in Ghaziabad, which has now come down to approximately 1,000 per day,” said Srivastava. The city at its peak last week refilled 1,890 D-type cylinders each 0.01 MT, and 200 B-type Cylinders each of 0.0021 MT.According to official records as of Thursday, of the total 2,458 functional oxygen beds in the district, 1,373 were vacant, while 219 ICU/Ventilator beds were vacant; as many as 917 out of 1,056 general beds in hospitals were vacant.Meanwhile, a 100-bed hospital with oxygen concentrators was started at Jewar. “This community health centre was shut for the past 11 years, so we repaired it using ₹50 lakh from my MLA funds. Help came from the Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority as well, which helped us with infrastructure. An ambulance was given by the district administration, a generator was provided by the district police department. Even villagers came forward to help and it’s a fully functional facility with four doctors. We also received over 50 high quality oxygen concentrators and are working to make the facility better for rural areas,” said Dhirendra Singh, MLA, Jewar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/demand-for-medical-oxygen-drops-in-gautam-budh-nagar-101621533825412.html
20-05-2021||Noida||Noida authority provides 1,500 oxygen cylinders to Covid-19 patients||NOIDA: The Noida authority on Thursday said that it has provided over 1,500 oxygen cylinders to Covid-19 patients in need from its various centres in the city in the past 17 initial days of the service.The authority started supplying oxygen cylinders on May 3 from its two counters set up at community centres in sectors 93B and 135, amid the shortage of oxygen in the city.The authority provides the D-type oxygen cylinders of two different capacities -- 40-litre and 5-litre -- for ₹500 and ₹200, respectively. On May 11, the authority decentralized the process of distribution and started refilling empty cylinders at 10 more locations in the city, said officials. On May 16, it also started home delivery of oxygen cylinders to home-isolated patients who are either living alone or whose relatives cannot reach refilling stations.“Now, the pressure on the authority to provide oxygen cylinders has eased out, though we are supplying cylinders to the needy continuously since we started. We are now not receiving many calls,” said Santosh Upadhyay, officer on special duty, Noida authority.According to the officials, the authority has delivered 1,334 cylinders from its two counters in community centres, while it supplied 179 cylinders and 30 oxygen concentrators since May 11, when 10 more centres were set up. More than 10 cylinders and 16 oxygen concentrators were delivered at home since May 16, they said. “We accept empty cylinders and deliver the same within 48 hours after re-filling. Now, the demand is falling rapidly,” said Upadhyay.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-authority-provides-1-500-oxygen-cylinders-to-covid-19-patients-101621533824593.html
20-05-2021||Noida||Second Covid-19 wave takes 311 lives in just 46 days in Noida||NOIDA: Since April 4 this year to May 19 or 46 days, as many as 311Covid-related deaths have taken place in Gautam Budh Nagar district. While April saw 121 Covid-19 deaths, the number of deaths due to the viral infection from May 1 to 19 was 190. Last year, the number of deaths in the district due to Covid was 91.GB Nagar chief medical officer,Dr Deepak Ohri said that since the past few days, the number of deaths recorded daily has come down, which is directly proportional to the number of cases. “We hope that the number of daily deaths will further go down by the end of this month, as the number of daily new cases is already on a downward trend,” he said.He, however, said that the case fatality rate (CFR) has been much higher in the second wave with respect to the first wave. “Even doctors are foxed with the number of deaths. The new variant of the virus is like a silent killer, which took the lives of patients within a matter of hours in some cases. The CFR of the district, which was nearly 0.35% during the first wave (91 deaths out of 26,100 cases), has mounted to 0.90% with 311 deaths out of 34,547 cases,” he said. Echoing similar views, a doctor of the district health department said that the second wave has affected age groups differently. “As per the internal data of the district, there has been a huge increase in the infection rate among young people, from 31% in the first wave to 39% in the second wave. In the first wave, the majority of infected patients were the elderly with multiple comorbidities. But, in the second wave, the trend has completely shifted, where the younger generation was more infected,” the doctor said, requesting to not be identified. Dr Akash Raj, the medical director of Super Specialty Paediatric Hospital and Post Graduate Teaching Institute (SSPHPGTI), better known as Child PGI, said that the virus seems to have acquired a greater transferability. “The entire spectrum of age groups – from the paediatric to the geriatric population – everyone is getting affected now. Predominantly, it is because the virus has changed its form and it is far more infectious. Every other person now has Covid-19, which was not the case last year,” he said.Dr Saurav Srivastava, the head of medicine and the in-charge of the L-3 Covid-19 facility at the Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS), also said that any concrete reason behind younger people being infected can only be ascertained through in-depth studies and analysis. “However, all we can say is that ever since social restrictions were eased, it is the younger generation which has stepped out to go to work and indulged in social gatherings, and consequently flouted precautionary measures. We all have to continue to practice Covid-19 precautions, like social distancing, masking and hand-washing. We also suggest our patients to stay in touch with local doctors, who can provide information if Covid-19 cases begin to increase in their localities,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/second-covid-19-wave-takes-311-lives-in-just-46-days-in-noida-101621533584583.html
20-05-2021||Noida||Challenge remains, PM tells officials as district magistrates of GB Nagar, Ghaziabad attend online address||Ghaziabad: Amid the ongoing Covid-19 crisis, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday interacted with district magistrates of several worst-hit states, including DMs of Gautam Budh Nagar and Ghaziabad. During the online interaction, the PM lauded the work of the district officials in fight against the pandemic, but he warned that the “challenge remains” as long as the infection is present in the country. The two districts in Uttar Pradesh are among the high caseload districts where total cases since March last year have crossed the 50,000-mark each. According to the state health bulletin, GB Nagar has 4,964 and Ghaziabad has 2,760 active cases as on May 20. “The Prime Minister stressed on the need to use local experiences and the need to work together as a country. He urged to spread messages on keeping villages Corona-free and following Covid-appropriate behaviour, even when cases are declining. He asked the officials to devise their strategy in a rural and urban specific way and ensure that the rural India is Covid-free,” said a statement issued by the Prime Minister’s Office. “He emphasized that the methods and strategies in dealing with the pandemic should be dynamic as the virus is expert in mutation and changing the format. He said virus mutation is concerning the youth and children. He stressed the need to boost vaccination drive,” the statement further added. According to PTI, the PM had video conference with DMs of 60 districts in the country. The two districts of GB Nagar and Ghaziabad were among the selected ones from UP. Suhas LY, district magistrate of GB Nagar, said that during a presentation given by the Union health secretary, there was mention of Noida with regard to the work done for isolation centres and day-to-day supply of oxygen. “In mid-April when cases started to surge, there was high demand for oxygen and our authorities started supplies to patients in home isolation. We also set up isolation facilities at our community health centres, besides the work done in this regard by RWAs and apartment owners’ associations. So, this way we promoted public-private partnership and the district’s name was mentioned by the Centre’s health officials during the presentation,” Suhas said. He said that the PM asked the officials to keep the morale high and stressed on the need to boost and share best practices devised during the pandemic. “The PM also stressed on the need for future preparedness to deal with any possible third wave. In this connection, we already have 100 paediatric ICU beds at our Child PGI and we have preparedness to come up with 125 of more such beds within two days whenever need arises,” Suhas added. During his recent visits to both the districts, UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath had also directed officials to come up with PICU beds in medical colleges and district hospitals in order to tackle any possible third wave which may also affect children and teenagers. Ghaziabad district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said that the community health centres (CHCs) in the district have 30 beds each while the primary health centres (PHCs) have five beds each to treat Covid patients. “Keeping in mind any likelihood of a third wave, we have directed that 50 beds each should be roped in at the CHCs and provision of beds at each PHC should be increased to 15. This is done to provide immediate treatment to patients and if need be, they will thereafter be referred to any other health-care facility. Our focus is now on rural areas,” Pandey said. “We have also directed that 10 PICU beds should be created at Sanjay Nagar hospital and 12 others should come up at the district women hospital for children up to age of 12 years,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/challenge-remains-pm-tells-officials-as-district-magistrates-of-gb-nagar-ghaziabad-attend-online-address-101621533464559.html
