23-05-2021||Noida||Noida: Residential bodies collaborate with hospitals for vaccinations||Noida residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) are collaborating with hospitals to help vaccinate people on their premises.With the district suffering a vaccine shortage and the vaccination drive having expanded to all adults, residents have been finding it tough to book their slots.“We are creating a database for the 18-44 age group from several societies in Greater Noida West. We already have almost 2,000 entries. Once we have the necessary information, we will share it with the Noida-based Fortis hospital Sector 62 and provide logistical support in organising camps in societies. We plan to start the camps by next week,” said Abhishek Kumar, president, Noida Extension Flat Owners Welfare Association.He said each resident will be charged ₹1050 for the shot and the camp will may be held next week.Residents will have to register on the Co-Win portal, submit it to their RWA that will then forward it to the hospital, said Kumar.Fortis did not respond to request for comment.In another plan, those who are at least 45 years old and in need of their second vaccine shot can opt for an on-spot registration at another Noida hospital. People will need to share the Co-Win registration number that they had got for the first shot.“The hospital will offer 50 doses on a first-come, first-serve basis. The usual private centre charges have to be paid and the beneficiaries have to carry their Aadhaar card with them,” said Rajiva Singh, president, Noida Federation of Apartment Owners Association.Societies are also working on registering and scheduling appointments for their staff.“We have volunteers who are now registering the staff of the society (Stellar Kings Court, sector 50) like domestic helps, drivers, housekeeping staff, etc. The staff has been asked to bring their IDs to help with this. Once we have more vaccine availability, we hope to get them all inoculated as soon as possible,” said Singh.“No administrative or health department permission is required for setting up vaccination camps. Hospitals and residential bodies can collaborate and organise drives,” said Gautam Budh Nagar’s chief medical officer, Deepak Ohri.“Health ministry guidelines are very clear for vaccination sites and if the requisite conditions are met, such camps by residential bodies are encouraged,” said district maigistrate Suhas LY.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-residential-bodies-collaborate-with-hospitals-for-vaccinations-101621793284906.html
23-05-2021||Noida||Noida: Over 6K in rural areas registered for Covid-19 vaccination via common service centres||NOIDA: More than 6,000 people in the age group of 45 years and above in rural areas of Gautam Budh Nagar have registered themselves for Covid-19 vaccination with the help of different common service centres (CSCs) in the district in the past two days, officials said on Sunday. Recently, the state government decided to start registrations for vaccination at CSCs – also known as Jan Suvidha Kendras – in the districts across the state to help people in rural parts register on the Co-Win app for vaccination. According to the officials, the staff of CSCs in GB Nagar have started door-to-door visits to help the people register for the vaccination and their details are being shared with the district vaccination department to provide a vaccination centre in their vicinity. The process of registering for vaccination through CSCs started on Friday in the district.The GB Nagar district magistrate, Suhas LY, said that about 350 CSCs across the district will assist people in registering on the app and eventually, provide the facility of vaccination. “To increase the pace of vaccination in rural areas, we have already roped in the CSCs to help people in rural areas in registration on the Co-Win app. The service will be provided for free,” he said. The DM also said these centres have provided access to the internet to a variety of persons who may not be adept at using it. “Since the CSCs and their infrastructure have always been widely and effectively used in rural areas for various purposes, it (use of CSCs) will yield positive results for vaccination in rural areas too. The vaccination booths can be community health centres, primary health centres, schools, panchayat buildings or any public place – which have waiting, vaccination and observation rooms,” Suhas said. Meanwhile, Pankaj Sharma, in-charge of CSCs in GB Nagar, said that unlike testing, people in rural areas are very much enthusiastic about their registration for inoculation. “We’ve started the registration process on the basis of Aadhaar number since Friday and only in first two days, nearly 6,300 people have been registered through different CSCs in the district. We hope that by the end of this month, over 50,000 people in rural areas will be registered in the district,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-over-6k-in-rural-areas-registered-for-covid-19-vaccination-via-common-service-centres-101621793283674.html
23-05-2021||Noida||Two held for black marketing of black fungus drug||Noida: Two men were nabbed by the Noida police on Saturday night from Sector 62 for allegedly black marketing Amphotericin B, a key medicine for treatment of black fungus infection.The suspects were identified as Anurag Kumar and Ankit Bhatt, residents of Delhi and Noida Sector 122, respectively. Kumar worked as a supervisor at a store of a pharmacy chain, police said.“Anurag was using the medicine available at the store as well as at other pharmacies of the chain to sell in the black market,” said Rajneesh Verma, assistant commissioner of police (ACP), zone 1.According to police officials, the suspects would contact relatives of patients in need of the drug through social media. Amphotericin B injections are in high demand as the cases of black fungus have gone up recently in the National Capital Region. “The market cost of the medicine starts from ₹2,000 to ₹3,500 and the suspects were selling the injection for as high as ₹16,000,” said the ACP.The officials said that the suspects would give one or two injections at normal prices but then increase the rates exponentially. The suspects would also target people in need of the drug near hospitals, the officials said, adding that the duo was trying to sell the medicine near a private hospital in Sector 62 when they were caught. Police recovered two injections of Amphotericin B from the suspects. “They have deleted most customer chats from their phones. But we were still able to retrieve a few. Many photos of the medicine were also found. We also found photos of Remdesivir from Bhatt’s phone. They may be black marketing other medicines as well. But that is under investigation,” said Verma.The suspects were booked at Sector 58 police station for cheating (Section 420 of the Indian Penal Code) and relevant sections of the Epidemic Act and the Disaster Management Act, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/two-held-for-black-marketing-of-black-fungus-drug-101621793284312.html
23-05-2021||Noida||After black fungus, cases of white fungus surface in Ghaziabad||Ghaziabad: As many as seven recovered Covid patients have been diagnosed with invasive aspergillosis, commonly known as white fungus, so far in Ghaziabad.According to the health department, while cases of white fungus are new, as many as 41 patients of mucormycosis or black fungus are being treated in the district as of now. However, at least three patients in the district have developed both the fungal infections, doctors said.The Harsh ENT Hospital in Raj Nagar has a total of 26 such patients – seven are patients of white fungus while the rest are black fungus patients. Doctors at the hospital said that white fungus in the patients was confirmed on the basis of histopathology reports.“Invasive aspergillosis or white fungus or is a post-Covid complication in which the infection goes to the lungs and causes pneumonia, while black fungus takes a different route and goes to the sinus, eyes and further to the brain. Three of our 26 patients have developed both the fungi. These infections develop in the post-Covid stage in patients, after 15-30 days (of testing negative),” said Dr BP Tyagi, senior ENT surgeon, who is treating the patients.Invasive aspergillosis is a rapidly progressive, often fatal infection that occurs in patients who are severely immunosuppressed. In this case, doctors said, most patients are those who have recovered from Covid who had low immunity because of steroidal drugs they were administered to fight the coronavirus disease. “These are mostly found in diabetic patients. While black fungus can be operated upon and taken out from the eyes and sinus, the white fungus has only one mode of treatment – through injections as – parts of the lungs cannot be taken out. While patients are administered Amphotericin injections, those suffering from white fungus are also given posaconazole injections and tablets, in addition. All seven patients suffering white fungus have mild to moderate symptoms,” Dr Tyagi added.Eleven of the mild to moderate symptoms of black fungus and getting treatment through the OPD and staying in home isolation, the doctor added.Doctors at Max Hospital, Vaishali said that they have 13 patients getting treatment for black fungus and two of these are likely to be discharged Monday. “Of these, a couple of patients have mild mucormycosis while others have sino-orbital-cerebral mucormycosis, where eyes and brain are involved. In a couple of cases, enucleation (removal of eye) was needed. There is another patient who would need mandibular (lower jaw) reconstruction, like the one needed in cancer patients. Two patients, who had mild symptoms are to be discharged after successful endoscopic treatment,” said Dr Sharad Joshi, principal consultant, department of pulmonology at Max Hospital, Vaishali.The district’s chief medical officer, Dr NK Gupta, said that the 41 patients in Ghaziabad getting treatment for these fungal infections include those from outside the district as well.“The drug posaconazole is effective in cases of white fungus, and is easily available. It has been seen that such infections have developed in Covid-recovered patients. We have directed hospitals to ensure proper hygiene and proper cleaning of equipment, including oxygen pipelines,” Dr Gupta said.“For cases of black fungus which require the drug amphotericin b, we have asked hospitals to refer patients to higher centres,” the CMO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/after-black-fungus-cases-of-white-fungus-surface-in-ghaziabad-101621793223609.html
23-05-2021||Noida||Noida: Cop suspended for failing to implement lockdown guidelines||Noida: A police sub-inspector, posted as in-charge of a police post under Phase 2 police jurisdiction, was suspended for allegedly failing to implement lockdown restrictions in a market.According to senior police officials, multiple complaints came from public that non-essential shops in the Gejha market were staying open during the lockdown. Following this input, a probe was initiated in the matter, the officials said.“It was found that there was a lapse on the part of the police post in-charge in implementation of the specified curfew guidelines. Non-essential businesses were staying open and this would not have been possible without his knowledge. The sub-inspector was suspended as he was negligent in the discharge of his duties,” said Harish Chander, deputy commissioner of police, zone 2.Chander said that a departmental inquiry in the matter is still underway. During the current lockdown which has been extended till May 31, only essential businesses are permitted to operate in Gautam Budh Nagar. In addition, Section 144 is implemented in the district which prohibits a gathering of more than five people.The police officials said that complaints have come from other market areas as well but there were more failure reports coming from the Gejha market.Earlier this month, five police personnel, including two sub-inspectors and three constables, from the Phase 2 police station had been suspended. There were allegations that they had detained a liquor store owner and a salesman from Gejha for illegally running the shop during the lockdown. The two were allegedly booked under lighter sections and allowed to go, following which a departmental inquiry was initiated and they were suspended. The DCP said that the matter is still under investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-cop-suspended-for-failing-to-implement-lockdown-guidelines-101621792923631.html
23-05-2021||Noida||Mercury on the rise in Noida, pollution levels go up||Noida: The streak of pleasant weather in the city and its adjoining areas seems to be breaking, with the weather analysts predicting the mercury to rise in the coming days. The trend began on Sunday, when the India meteorological Department (IMD) recorded a maximum and minimum temperature for Noida at 33.7 degrees Celsius and 23.4 degrees Celsius, respectively, a notch higher than Saturday’s against 32 degrees Celsius and 24 degrees Celsius, respectively. The average temperatures are, however, still lower than the usual for this time of the year. At the Safdarjung monitoring station, considered an average for the National Capital Region, the maximum and minimum temperatures were recorded at 33.5 degrees Celsius – six degrees Celsius lower than the season’s average and 22.4 degrees Celsius, four degrees below the season’s average, respectively.Experts said the mercury is expected to rise about four to five degrees over the next three days.“The mercury will rise to 38-39 degrees Celsius over the next few days. There are no chances of rain for the next three days, so heat will rise during the day time,” said Mahesh Palawat, vice president, meteorology and climate change, Skymet. Meanwhile, pollution levels in Noida, Greater Noida and Ghaziabad rose sharply from the ‘satisfactory’ to ‘poor’ levels.According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), the air quality index (AQI) of Noida on Sunday, on a scale of 0 to 500, was 241 against 60 a day earlier. The AQI of Greater Noida was 226 against 72 a day earlier. Ghaziabad recorded an AQI of 227 on Sunday against 85a day earlier. An AQI level up to 100 is considered ‘good’, between 101 and 200 is ‘moderate’, between 201 and 300 is ‘poor’, between 301 and 400 is ‘very poor’ and above 400 is considered ‘severe’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/mercury-on-the-rise-in-noida-pollution-levels-go-up-101621792863635.html
23-05-2021||Noida||At UP Gate, Covid takes a toll on protesters strength||Ghaziabad: The farmers protesting against the Centre’s new farm laws at the UP Gate site said that nowadays they are fighting on “two fronts” -- pressing for their demands and keeping Covid-19 at bay. On Sunday, most of the tents and camps were devoid of protesters as their numbers, according to farmer leaders, have reduced to about 500-700 at the site. The hectic activity at the site, which was in prevalence till mid of April, has now taken a halt as the dais on Sunday saw presence of only a handful of protesters waiting for the proceedings to begin. The UP Gate protest site since November 28 last year had been witnessing participation by thousands of farmers from Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and other states like Punjab and Haryana. “The gathering nowadays has declined as we have asked many of our protesters to go home. It is done keeping in mind the pandemic situation. However, we are still continuing to press for our demands. On the other hand, we are also handling the Covid situation at the UP Gate and none of our protesters has faced issues,” said Jagtar Singh Bajwa, farmer leader and member of UP Gate farmers’ committee. “So, we are fighting on two fronts, and we will not bow down,” he added. Suresh Chand, a farmer from Firozabad in UP, is among many of the first ones who came to the protest site in November. “The activities have halted for a brief period as many people have gone to villages for harvesting of sugarcane. But we are continuing our protest. We have about 10 langars which are operational nowadays. Covid is another obstacle which has come in our way,” Chand said. While few farmers continue to camp in tents put up on the Ghaziabad-Delhi carriageway of the Delhi-Meerut Expressway, others are camping below the UP Gate flyover and have also put up a screen where they mostly spend time watching television during evenings. A visit by an HT team to the site on Sunday revealed that most of the protesters were resting in camps while others were busy preparing food in langars. Saleem Chaudhary from Saharanpur has also been at the site since the beginning of the agitation. “The agitation is not to show our strength. The government knows it. They also know that we will continue to camp here despite spike in Covid-19 cases,” said Chaudhary, who is a member of Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) led by Naresh Tikait. Rajbir Singh Jadaun, state president of BKU, said that they do not allow outsiders to enter the site in the wake of pandemic. “Since the beginning of the agitation, we have a number of poor people coming in to have food at our langars. Despite the pandemic, we have not stopped serving them food. But we have made arrangement for them on two sides of the site where they come in the evening every day in hundreds,” Jadaun said. “To tackle Covid, we restricted the number of farmers at the site and our leaders have also cancelled their rallies. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha has written to the Prime Minister to resume talks and we are waiting for reply,” he said. To avoid any infection, the farmer leaders said that they received cooperation from the district authorities to keep the site infection-free. “But we have also roped in our own fogging machine, and we are ensuring that the site remains clean. Now, we demand that our farmers should get vaccine at the earliest,” Jadaun added. The Farmer leaders said that they are also helping out patients and their families in their respective villages. At Bazpur in Uttarakhand, they have set up “oxygen langar” to help patients get oxygen, while others have started a campaign to make “death register” of fatalities which have taken place in villages. “We have asked our members to get the registers prepared in villages where number of deaths seems more during the past two months. These registers will be sent to the government, and we will try to raise issue if there is mismatch with government figures. The exercise is taking place in Muzaffarnagar, and we will do it in other districts as well,” said Dharmendra Malik, state spokesperson of BKU. The BKU has its headquarters at Sisauli in Muzaffarnagar. When asked, Ghaziabad chief medical officer Dr NK Gupta said, “If the farmers send us a demand, we can arrange for a vaccination camp, and we can also help them get vaccine at the centre near the UP Gate.” Gyanendra Singh, superintendent of police (city 2), said that the gathering has reduced at the UP Gate since the second wave of Covid-19. “We are keeping our communication open with the farmers at the site and our regular police and PAC deployment is continuing. The farmers are continuing their agitation in a peaceful manner,” Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/at-up-gate-covid-takes-a-toll-on-protesters-strength-101621792803613.html
