24-05-2021||Noida||Fake cops extorting money nabbed in Noida||Noida: Noida Police arrested two men for allegedly extorting money from motorists by impersonating as Delhi Police personnel.Police identified the suspects as Neeraj Chaube and Mohammad Afsar, who were from Varanasi and Delhi, respectively, and in their 20s. Police said that they have recovered two fake Delhi Police identity cards, a set of vehicle documents and two cellphones, among other things, from them. Senior police officers said that the duo would stop motorists on pretext of violations like not wearing a helmet or mask.“The suspects would ask for the vehicle’s papers which they would then seize claiming them to be a part of an investigation. Sometimes, if the papers were not in order, they would use that to their advantage as well,” said Rajneesh Verma, assistant commissioner of police, zone 1.They would then threaten legal action against the person unless they paid up, Verma said. On May 20, the suspects allegedly stopped a Noida resident near the Mahamaya flyover and took ₹4,500 from him.“The suspects took his papers and threatened to send him to jail. They told him to meet at Labour Chowk with another ₹20,000 for them,” said the ACP. Instead, the victim approached the police. “We intercepted them during the meet and nabbed them.From their phones, we have recovered evidence of at least 10 other people being duped in this manner. Some of them are now coming forward with their complaints. We are working on identifying other victims as well.”The duo had been active for over six months and mostly worked in desolate areas in Delhi and Noida, said police.The suspects were booked under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code at Sector 58 police station, police said. They added that the men had been produced before a magistrate who sent them to 14-day judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/fake-cops-extorting-money-nabbed-in-noida-101621879568120.html
24-05-2021||Noida||In Ghaziabad, black fungus burns a hole: Up to ₹1 lakh a day||After having spent a fortune on Covid-19 treatment, many families thought their troubles had breathed a sigh of relief. But now, cases of mucromycosis, also called black fungus, are inflicting more damage.Covid treatment is free in government hospitals, but at private hospitals, even after the Uttar Pradesh government’s cap, is expensive for many. Similarly, treatment costs for black fungus can go up to ₹1 lakh a day at a private facility as the only drug used to treat it -- amphotericin injection -- and surgeries are expensive.Sihani resident Pushpendra Kumar is a contractual worker and earns ₹13,000 a month. His father, 57-year-old Raja Ram, tested positive for Covid-19 and was discharged on May 7. That costed him ₹4.5 lakh.“On May 14, my father developed headache and his eyes seemed dilated. On May 18, his complications increased, and we took him to another hospital where he was diagnosed with black fungus. My family started running around to Delhi, Meerut and Ghaziabad to arrange for amphotericin, but we could not find any,” said Kumar. “He died on May 20. Treating the fungal infection costed me ₹80,000 per day.”Raja Ram’s doctor, Dr BP Tyagi, senior ENT surgeon at Harsh ENT Hospital at Raj Nagar District Centre, confirmed the death due to black fungus.“The infection had spread to his nose, eyes and brain and despite all efforts he could not be saved,” said Dr Tyagi. “We have 27 such cases and all had recovered from Covid and uncontrolled diabetes.” The cost of an amphotericin injection is around ₹5,000 and patients are administered multiple doses depending on severity. “Patients with mild infection are administered 2-3 injections per day while moderate patients require about five. Those with severe infection require about 10 per day. So, this increases the cost considerably, besides the staff involved during the treatment are hired at high salaries due to the risk involved,” said Dr Tyagi.Black fungus has been found mostly among people with uncontrolled diabetes, whose immunity is compromised, or among people who are given excessive steroids or immunity-modulating drugs such as tocilizumab. According to doctors, if left untreated, it could kill up to 80% of those infected. If not detected early, it affects the orbit of the eye and the mouth, resulting in people losing their vision or jaw during debridement — the process of removing dead tissue from an infection or wound.Officially, there are 41 black fungus cases in Ghaziabad.Dr Ashish Agarwal, president of the Indian Medical Association (Ghaziabad), said that the government supply of amphotericin, which is restricted to only hospitals via the UP Medical Supplies Corporation, should be increased.“In April when remdesivir was required to treat Covid-19, its black-marketing started. Now, we again have short supply of amphotericin,” said Dr Agarwal. “It is up to the health department to ensure that patients do not have to run around getting the drug. ENT (ear-nose-throat) surgeons say that they cannot operate on patients without amphotericin.”Ghaziabad chief medical officer Dr NK Gupta said that the district health department had two ENT surgeons and hired a general surgeon recently.“At present, we do not have availability of super specialists, but they are available with private hospitals. All black fungus patients are getting treated at private hospitals,” Gupta said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/in-ghaziabad-black-fungus-burns-a-hole-up-to-1-lakh-a-day-101621879447555.html
24-05-2021||Noida||Seek help on mental health from experts as Greater Noida starts teleconsultation service||GREATER NOIDA: The Greater Noida authority on Monday said that it has started teleconsultation services through which people can seek help from experts on mental health issues amid the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. According to authority officials, the initiative is helping the people who have recovered from Covid but are scared of having black fungus now; or those who have lost a family member and are unable to come to terms with stress or dealing with financial crisis, among other issues.The authority has designated one expert daily from 4pm to 5pm on all days of the week, the officials said, adding that people can call at 7982121411 to talk to an expert. There are three experts on the panel that includes Dr Vikas Kumar Sharma, Dr Pragya Sharma and Dr Neerja Agarwal, the officials said. “We want to assist people through these sessions as many need counselling to handle the challenges thrown by the pandemic. These sessions will continue until the situation gets normal,” said Narendra Bhooshan, chief executive officer, Greater Noida authority.According to the experts, they are attending to around 20 calls daily. “We are attending to a variety of calls. Most of the callers are recovered Covid patients who now fear that they can be victim of black fungus. Besides, there are callers who were attending to a patient in family, or those facing financial crisis. We are counselling them as to how they should handle or react to this situation with positive attitude and keep their mental being healthy,” said Dr Vikas Kumar Sharma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/seek-help-on-mental-health-from-experts-as-greater-noida-starts-teleconsultation-service-101621879327523.html
24-05-2021||Noida||Covid-19: Over 5 lakh vaccines administered in Noida||Over five lakh doses of anti-coronavirus vaccines, including the second dose, have been administered to people in Uttar Pradesh's Gautam Buddh Nagar as on Monday, according to official figures.Of the total 5,05,592 vaccines administered so far in Noida and Greater Noida, 4,08,324 people got their first shot and 97,268 got the second dose, showed the figures provided by the district administration.While vaccination for people aged 45 and above and those in front line of work during the pandemic had started earlier this year, inoculation for the 18-44 year age group started on May 11 in Gautam Buddh Nagar.According to the official figures, a total of 9,042 people were administered vaccines at 57 government facilities on Monday, of which 7,103 were in the 18-44 age group, while 1,557 in the 45-59 age group and 378 were 60 or above.The total number of vaccination reached 5,05,592 so far -- 4,08,324 first dose and 97,268 second dose, it showed.Vaccination at government facilities is being done free of cost, officials said.The district also has five drive-through vaccination centres that are functional now and people can book an appointment at these centres through the Cowin portal and reach for inoculation at the allotted time, the officials added.These drive-through centres are at DLF Mall of India and GIP Mall in Noida, Shahid Pathik Stadium, Omaxe CP Mall in Greater Noida and Gaur City Mall in Greater Noida West, they said.Except for GIP Mall in Noida, pre-registration for slots is mandatory at all four drive-through facilities, the officials said.Meanwhile, the district administration also appealed to the people to reach vaccination centres at the appointed time slot only for vaccination and not from the morning to avoid crowding.Gautam Buddh Nagar has so far recorded over 61,000 Covid-19 cases, 420 deaths and has a recovery rate of over 93 per cent with 3,732 active cases, according to official figures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/covid19-over-5-lakh-vaccines-administered-in-noida-101621877693084.html
