25-05-2021||Noida||As Ghaziabad ramps up testing, cases decline||In the last nine days, the Ghaziabad health department has ramped up testing over the preceding few weeks and found fewer Covid-positive cases, officials said.Experts say this indicated that the district had crossed the peak.Between April 15 and April 30, it had conducted an average of 5,506 daily tests (1,828 RTPCR, 3,678 antigen) giving 684 average daily cases. In the next fortnight, it conducted only 3,658 daily average tests (1,707 RTPCR, 1951 antigen) that yielded 738 average daily cases.Then the target was increased to at least 2,900 daily RTPCR tests and 5,200 daily tests.From May 16 till May 24, it has already conducted 5,228 daily average tests (2,974 RTPCR, 2,254 antigen) tests and returning 329 daily average cases - an average positivity rate (proportion of tests returning positive results) of 6.3%. Currently, the positivity rate in May stood at 10.36%, down from the peak of 19.3% on May 6.“For about a month starting mid-March, we were short on testing kits, which is no longer the case. These numbers indicate that the spread of infection has come down,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer. “This is primarily due to partial curfew. Early treatment through faster detection also helped.”Initially, the partial corona curfew began at 8pm on April 30 and was due to end at 7am on May 4 but was extended several times. It is now extended to stay in place till 7am on May 31.The officials familiar with the development also said that testing has also been increased in rural areas which was about 26% of overall testing till last week and now it is about 30% at present.“Since the positivity is less in rural areas, increase in testing in such segments will also result in decline in positivity,” the officer added.The World Health Organization (WHO) recommends a positivity rate of 5% or lower over two weeks to consider the infection under control in a region.“The declining figures indicate that the peak is over. Had the curfew been implemented earlier; it would have reduced number of cases and deaths. The recovery of patients in ICUs and on ventilators is still major concern,” said Dr Ashish Agarwal, president of Indian Medical Association (Ghaziabad). “It is also vital that vaccination is increased and within next couple of months, the vaccination coverage should cover 50-60% of the city population ahead of any probably third wave,” he added.According to state control room records, there were 102 Covid-related deaths during the period starting March till December 31, 2020. But the tally on May 24 stood at 420.He said that in case the government decided to do away with the partial Corona curfew, strict enforcement of Covid protocols should continue.“It is vital that enforcement continues. Otherwise, people will again flout guidelines and it may happen those cases may start to increase again. During the present second wave, the cases spiked at rapid pace and also declining fast,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/as-ghaziabad-ramps-up-testing-cases-decline-101621967350919.html
25-05-2021||Noida||Residents push for developing green belt in Sector 77||Residents are demanding that the Noida authority develop a 60-acre plot that is currently a dust bowl located in Sector 77 into a green zone. Sector 77 and adjoining areas are home to a number of high-rises.“We have been pursuing the matter with the authority for quite some time. It will help not just Sector 77 but neighbouring areas as well by reducing dust pollution,” said Amit Gupta, a resident of Prateek Westeria, Sector 77.Deepak Mittal, a resident of Antriksh Forest in the same sector, said that his high-rise is adjacent to this proposed green belt which he had been seeing barren for over a decade. “Since the area is large with loose soil, whenever wind blows it brings dust directly into our houses,” Mittal said.“The city has seen so many plantation drives. I don’t understand why this (the plot) had been left out. It’s high time that the revival of this green belt is taken seriously,” said Sachin Goyal, a resident of JM Orchid, Sector 76.According to Noida authority officials, the work will begin soon.“We have sent the proposal and the work will begin soon. We will be exploring the option if it should be developed on Miyawaki afforestation method or not. Due to Covid-19 pandemic, many residents have approached us to plant more medicinal and oxygen generating trees like peepal, neem, banyan, and sahajan,” said IP Singh, officer on special duty, public health, Noida authority.The Miyawaki method revives the green cover on degraded land using little water by retaining moisture with help of stubble and straw, the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/residents-push-for-developing-green-belt-in-sector-77-101621881909084.html
25-05-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad to come up with dedicated child hospital ahead of third Covid-19 wave||To tackle a possible third wave of Covid-19, the Ghaziabad administration on Monday said it will acquire a private hospital on the Delhi-Meerut Road and convert it into the district’s first dedicated child hospital.The hospital will be equipped with 60 beds for children aged up to 12 years and will also have one ventilator/ICU ward, said district officials. An oxygen plant will also be setup for ensuring regular supply.Confirming this, district chief medical officer (CMO) Dr N K Gupta said, “It will be acquired as we have done with other private hospitals during the pandemic. The hospital staff will remain and in case of any shortage we will also provide staff.”During his recent visit to Ghaziabad, UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath had directed officials to come up with paediatric ICU (PICU) beds for children in case they are affected in a possible third wave in the future.“The children’s guardians will get updates on health status 3-4 times a day. The doctors of the hospital will also be in touch with experts of other medical institutions virtually,” district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said in a press statement. “We have also directed private hospitals to reserve 10 beds each for treatment of children.”According to official records obtained from the district health department, about 677 children up to the age of 10 were infected with Covid-19 from April 1 to May 13 this year.The PICUs for children will also be setup at the district hospital and the district women hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-to-come-up-with-dedicated-child-hospital-ahead-of-third-wave-101621881848137.html
25-05-2021||Noida||Noida: Long queue for drive-through vaccination at GIP Mall||A two-kilometer long queue of cars leading up to the GIP Mall in Noida’s Sector 38 was seen on Monday for the drive-through vaccination camp there where the second dose of Covaxin was administered for those who were 45 years and older (45+).The mall’s parking lot has been a vaccination centre since May 22 from 10am to 4pm. Monday’s queue was a first.“The centre has a cap of administering 200 doses a day. However, around 300-350 cars had lined up at the centre. People had started coming at 8am itself,” Praveen Kumar, an official from district administration who was managing the vaccination site, said.Vaccinations here did not require prior booking and were free of cost. Second doses of Covaxin were given at the centre. As per the Cowin dashboard, 192 people were vaccinated at the centre on Monday and a total of 742 people have been vaccinated here since May 22.People who arrived at the centre alleged that some were allowed to walk-in and get their second dose.Shikha Dwivedi, a resident of Delhi’s Mayur Vihar, said she was waiting for her turn since 9.30am. “We waited in the car for six hours to get the shot. But others who came in as late as 2pm simply walked into the centre and got it. There is no one to check whether people are going in by turn or not,” she said.“When people saw that walk-in vaccinations were also taking place, those who were behind us in their vehicles in the queue got down, walked up to the centre and got vaccinated. Officials should have kept a check on this,” said Pankaj Bisht, a resident of Sector 75. Delivery executives were seen delivering food to people waiting in their cars as many ordered meals online. “We came at around 9am and even then, the queue was at least one-and-a-half km long. We hadn’t anticipated this and were not carrying any food so we had to order some for us at 3pm,” said VK Saluja, a resident of Sector 45.Many people had arguments at the centre with security guards as well. “The management should tell people waiting in the queue about the number of vaccines available with them and how many are left. There are still over 50 cars in line awaiting their turn when we walked up to the centre, by which time we got to know that only 10 more doses will be given. How will we get to know this sitting inside the car,” said Vikram Negi, a Sector 119 resident who had come with his mother to get vaccinated.Officials said that tokens will be issued from Tuesday. “We will issue 200 tokens on a first-come, first-serve basis at the centre. Only those who with it will be given doses,” said Gajendra Singh, sub-divisional magistrate and nodal officer for vaccination in Gautam Budh Nagar.L-1 health centre for Covid patients in Sector 100 The Noida Lok Manch, an NGO, is starting a 10-bed L-1 healthcare facility at the Late Tekram Memorial Health Centre in Sector 100 for Covid-19 patients.“The centre is primarily for the underprivileged section of the society who can’t afford to get treated for Covid at hospitals. The centre will have facilities such as oxygen cylinders, concentrators, 24/7 lab testing and expert medical care,” said Mahesh Saxena, general secretary, Noida Lok Manch.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-long-queue-for-drive-through-vaccination-at-gip-mall-101621881667641.html
25-05-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad doctors claim ‘yellow fungus’ infection in a post-Covid patient||Doctors at a Ghaziabad private hospital on Monday claimed that one of their patients, a 45-year-old man who had recovered from Covid-19, is diagnosed with mucour scepticus disease, or so-called “yellow fungus”.But the district health department said that they awaited the patient’s histopathological (tissue test) report for confirmation.The patient arrived at the Harsh ENT Hospital at Raj Nagar District Centre (RDC) on Sunday with post-Covid complications.“It is called as yellow fungus as the affected area is yellow in colour and has pus formation below it. It is generally found in reptiles. It was detected through endoscopic examination of the patient’s nose,” Dr BP Tyagi, senior ENT surgeon at the hospital.News agency ANI reported that yellow fungus is a fatal disease because it starts internally and therefore it is important to note its symptoms. Dr Randeep Guleria, the director of Delhi’s All India of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), said during a Covid-related press briefing in Delhi on Monday that the terms like “black, yellow and white fungus” could mislead and create confusion.“Fungal infections, like black fungus is a different family. Its culture has white coloured fungal colonies and has black dots. So, in general terms it is stated as black fungus. In general, we have mucormycosis (so-called “black fungus”) which is more prevalent nowadays. We also have infections like candida, aspergillosis, cryptococcus and histoplasma besides coccidioidomycosis,” he said.He added that most fungal infections nowadays are of mucormycosis and aspergillosis (so-called “white fungus”) with some candida infections as well.“So, it is better we use correct names and labelling the same fungus with names of different colours can create confusion,” Dr Guleria said. Ghaziabad chief medical officer Dr NK Gupta said, “We have spoken to the doctors at the hospital. We are waiting for the histopathological report, expected in a couple of days,” Dr Gupta added.So far, the hospital at RDC, Raj Nagar is treating 27 patients suffering post-Covid complication of mucormycosis and invasive aspergillosis and three of them are stated to be suffering from both.“These are basically different types of fungal infections and nowadays they are generally termed as per their appearance (colour). Yellow fungus infections mostly occur in unhygienic conditions or during humid weather conditions. It can also affect our vital organs and there is also pus formation. Most of the fungal infections occur in immuno-compromised patients or those having prolonged treatment history besides those having diabetes,” said Dr Sanjeev Kumar Jain, consultant (ENT), Columbia Asia Hospital at Ghaziabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-doctors-claim-yellow-fungus-infection-in-a-post-covid-patient-101621879567585.html
25-05-2021||Noida||Not a single case of Covid reported in over 180 villages in GB Nagar: Survey||A recent survey by the Gautam Budh Nagar administration revealed that there had been no cases of Covid-19 in 183 of the 399 villages so far despite the second wave raging through the district.The number of tests in these rural blocks was 51,783 from April 15, and the number of RT-PCR tests were just under 6,900. During the same period, the district had conducted almost 70,000 tests. The figures pointed to the district administration’s focus on villages, something that Prime Minister Narendra Modi and UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath had stressed upon too.GB Nagar district magistrate Suhas LY said they had pursued aggressive testing at nearly 298 villages. “Till May 24, our health officials have conducted over 50,000 tests in as many as 298 villages, out of which 183 had no Covid-19 case. The positivity rate is less than 5% in the other villages,” he said.Also Read| Covid-19: Over 5 lakh vaccines administered in NoidaThe DM said that vigilance committees, formed to keep an eye out for symptoms, at all villages have been asked to ensure 100% testing. “They’ve instructed to report about people having influenza-like illness (ILI) symptoms to the district health officials,” he said.The Noida chapter of Indian medical association (IMA) has welcomed the district administration’s decision to ramp up testing in rural areas. Dr NK Gupta, its president, said that such micro-level efforts can be very effective in checking further spread of the infection.District chief medical officer Dr Deepak Ohri said that they had been focussing on rapid antigen tests, as per the Indian Council of Medical Research guidelines.On vaccinations, he said that, till Thursday, over 500,000 persons had been inoculated in the district so far. “While 408,324 of them received their first doses, the rest got their second dose. These figures indicate that despite some technical issues and lukewarm response in the initial days of vaccination drive, the inoculation in the district has been satisfactory,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/not-a-single-case-of-covid-19-reported-in-over-180-villages-in-gb-nagar-finds-survey-101621879207577.html
