26-05-2021||Noida||Illegal international telephone exchange busted in Noida, three nabbed||Noida: Three people were arrested on Wednesday for allegedly running an unauthorised international telephone exchange in Sector 62. Police said that the illegal operation was causing revenue losses to the department of telecommunications and posing a threat to national security.The suspects were identified as Owais Alam, a resident of Moradabad and Pushpendra Kumar and Pawan Kumar, residents of Ghaziabad. According to police, Alam had purchased an office space for ₹50 lakh in a business park in Sector 62 in December last year. In addition, he also purchased licences for 12 PRI (primary rate interface) lines, which is used for internet voice calls, from a private company, police said.“An abnormality was discovered by the company when it was found that instead of receiving or making the calls, the lines were being used to transfer them. A complaint was made with us. Then a probe in the matter was initiated, following which a raid was conducted today and the three suspects were apprehended,” said Kumar Ranvijay Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police, zone 1.Police officials said that the suspects were routing the calls through the lines to their own server. Police also recovered a car, several laptops, desktops, technical gadgets, and several SIM cards, among others, from the suspects.“The revenue which would have gone to the telecom companies was instead going to the suspects creating losses for the telecom department. And the caller identities were not showing in the call detail records, which was a threat to national security. We have alerted the agencies concerned as well about the matter,” said Singh.Most of these calls were being generated from the Middle East, said police.Police officials said that the operation mastermind is a Mumbai-based man who had designed the proxy server. He had prior experience in web development projects. He has an M.Sc in IT and a work experience with calling software at a US-based MNC, the officials said, adding that the man is yet to be arrested. According to police, in 2017, Alam started an exchange from Sector 63 before moving to Sector 62. He was also running another such exchange from his house in Moradabad where a raid was conducted as well, said police, adding that at least three more named suspects are wanted in the case. Police are also working to trace the foreign IP address to see if an illegal exchange had also been set up on the other end. They have identified five bank accounts of the suspects to trace money. Alam owned property worth ₹1 crore in Noida which is also being looked at, said police. The suspects were booked at Sector 58 police station under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Indian Telegraph Act, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/illegal-international-telephone-exchange-busted-in-noida-three-nabbed-101622053394112.html
26-05-2021||Noida||Woman arrested for stealing mobile phones of patients at Covid hospital in Noida||: Police have arrested a 35-year-old woman for stealing mobile phones of patients at a Covid-dedicated hospital in Sector 39. The woman, identified as Meena Devi, is a resident of Gurugram and was employed on contractual basis at the facility.As per police officials, six stolen mobile phones were recovered from the suspect.“The woman was arrested on Wednesday morning from Sector 51. She used to work as help staff at the hospital and would steal the mobile phones of critically ill Covid patients as well as those who passed away at the hospital,” said Azad Singh Tomar, station house officer, Sector 39 police station.He added that since the Covid patients were in isolation and did not have any family members nearby, their belongings were left unguarded which made it easier for the suspect to steal the phones. The woman has been booked under relevant sections of IPC.“The thefts were carried out between April and May this year. Two people had submitted complaints of mobile theft at the hospital,” said Tomar. htc||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/woman-arrested-for-stealing-mobile-phones-of-patients-at-covid-hospital-in-noida-101622052974037.html
26-05-2021||Noida||Developers seek protection from insolvency for a year||Real estate developers on Tuesday demanded protection from insolvency proceedings for at least a year as the sector had been severely hit financially due to the pandemic. They also wrote to the Centre and the Uttar Pradesh Real Estate Regulatory Authority (UP-Rera) seeking more time to repay loans.“Section 7 of Indian Bankruptcy Code (IBC) allows a financial creditor to file for initiating the corporate insolvency resolution process against a corporate debtor. Section 9 provides for application of insolvency by an operational creditor, while Section 10 is for initiation of insolvency proceedings by a corporate applicant. We have requested that applicability of these three sections be suspended for a year like it was done in 2020 in view of Covid-19 pandemic,” said RK Arora, Uttar Pradesh president of National Real Estate Development Council.Last year’s relief expired on March 31, 2021.“We request from UP RERA and the government of India to extend this relief further because the second wave of Covid -9 has further ruined the business with most of our sales staff, construction works and others falling ill and affecting projects. Besides we request for a moratorium of one year for business loans in view of Covid 19 pandemic,” said Arora.There are at least 600 ongoing realty projects in Gautam Budh Nagar district that consists of Noida, Greater Noida and Yamuna Expressway areas. As per the Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association of India (Credai), around ₹50,000 crore investment is at stake in these projects.“The real estate sector saw worst phase in terms of sales and construction in 2020, when first Covid 19 wave arrived halting work at realty projects. As the sentiment began to revive in the market, the second wave struck and further deteriorated the sector and forcing a liquidity crisis,” said Prashant Kumar Tiwari, president of Western UP Credai.The UPRERA will look into all these issues in its meeting next week.“We are going to consider their (developer’s) proposal next week in authority meeting and take appropriate action in this regard,” said Balvinder Kumar, UP-Rera member.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/developers-seek-protection-from-insolvency-for-a-year-101621967770888.html
26-05-2021||Noida||Noida’s ‘oxygen langar’ at Botanical Garden wrapped up||Noida: After nearly three weeks since it started, the drive-through ‘oxygen langar’ service at Botanical Garden Metro Station parking lot in Sector 38 has been wrapped up as not a single patient turned up there in the past couple of days.The free oxygen service for Covid-19 patients was started on May 5 by the management of Gurudwara Sri Guru Singh Sabha, Khalsa Aid International, an NGO, and the district administration. When it started, at least 20 Covid patients with dangerously fluctuating oxygen levels were being given relief with the help of 20 oxygen concentrators round the clock per day. At least 10 beds were set up in the parking lot for patients who needed the service.However, 20 days on, the number of patients seeking oxygen at the site has significantly reduced. “Since May 21, we haven’t got a single patient at the oxygen langar. Hence, on Monday, we decided to wrap up the arrangements,” said Lt. Colonel (retired) Surjeet Singh, who is part of the initiative.However, Singh said that the service has not been shut but only shifted from the Metro parking lot to the gurudwara in Sector 18.“We have put four beds at the gurudwara’s dispensary in case patients need the oxygen langar service. The service at Botanical Garden was started at a time of emergency for patients who were unable to find beds or oxygen support for themselves. But now, the situation seems to have got better and we have scaled down our service back to the gurudwara,” said Singh.He said that we will continue to provide oxygen cylinders to be taken home to those who need it, at a refundable security deposit of ₹8,000. “In case a person cannot afford the security deposit, our team will go to their residence to verify the authenticity of the case and then lend the cylinder free of cost,” said Singh.Meanwhile, in Ghaziabad too, the takers for oxygen langar service have reduced. In Ghaziabad, the Shri Guru Singh Sabha Gurudwara in Indirapuram, along with NGO Khalsa Help International, had started providing a drive-through oxygen service free of cost to patients in need from April 23. On May 9, a similar set up was put up at Hapur mod Gurudwara with 10 beds.However, now, the set up at Indirapuram has been removed as number of patients reduced. “Earlier, we were getting at least 500 to 700 patients a day at the Indirapuram Gurudwara alone. However, since last week, the number of patients reduced to about 100 a day. Hence, we have now restricted the service only to the Hapur mod Gurudwara where patients are availing oxygen langar service,” said Gurpreet Singh, founder of Khalsa Help International.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noidas-oxygen-langar-at-botanical-garden-wrapped-up-101621967653611.html
26-05-2021||Noida||Not-for-profit Covid centres come to aid of patients in Ghaziabad||Ghaziabad: Honey Garg, a Ghaziabad resident, spent about ₹4.25 lakh for his Covid-19 treatment at a private hospital and tested negative on May 20. Initially, his oxygen levels were low, and the issue continued even after he got discharged. Garg said that with limited finances available, he arrived at a Covid care centre run by an NGO at a college in Mohan Nagar, and is now getting proper care for free for the past five days. During the second Covid wave, some non-government organisations (NGOs) have pitched in with free-of-cost services for Covid-19 patients. The centre at Mohan Nagar, run by NGO Khalsa Help International, has ensured regular oxygen supply, food, medicines and Covid care taken up by a team of doctors. “The centre has come as a blessing in disguise for me after I spent most of my savings during Covid treatment for about 10 days. Still after discharge, I required oxygen and I came to know about this centre. The staff here are taking good care of my health,” Garg, who has a small computer repair business, said. Saroj Bhatia’s retired husband is also one of the patients at the centre and requires regular oxygen supply. “My husband is getting all the facilities here, besides regular oxygen supply. He had tested positive for Covid and later turned negative. But getting oxygen was a major issue we faced,” she said. Harminder Singh Kohli, in-charge of the Mohan Nagar centre with 100 beds, said that the facility started May 11 and discharged more than 150 patients so far. “Forty patients are still admitted to Covid and non-Covid wards. We also plan to increase the beds. We have a team of doctors and volunteers who take care of patients, and everything is free. We have even provided staying facility for family members of patients who come from outside Ghaziabad,” Kohli said. At another similar centre at a school in Nehru Nagar, which was initiated by the organisation, Sewa Bharti, on May 25, 28-year-old Priyanka Mittal is staying with her husband who got discharged from hospital after 15 days of treatment. “His oxygen level was low even after the discharge from the hospital. So, we came here and found that all health-care facilities, including oxygen, are available for free. I, along with my husband, am staying here since May 20,” Mittal said. Another family from Niwari is also staying at the centre as their 55-year-old member is admitted at the centre. “My mother-in-law was having frequent complaint of fever and we took consultations from several doctors. We got her admitted to a private hospital and we ended paying up ₹18,000 for her one-night stay. Then we were told to arrange for oxygen,” said Reshma Singh, a resident of Niwari at Modinagar in Ghaziabad. “Thereafter, we heard about the Nehru Nagar centre and brought her here. Now, we are relieved of any financial burden. The centre has also given us one room to stay, along with other facilities for free,” she added. The Nehru Nagar centre’s assistant in-charge Anuj Puri said that the centre has 100 beds and has all health-care facilities at par with government’s L1 category hospitals. “About 76 patients here have recovered so far and we have a provision of 50 beds equipped with oxygen supply. A team of doctors is available round the clock. We have also made proper arrangements of room for families who wish to stay,” he added. Chief medical officer Dr NK Gupta said that both the centres have come in handy for patients when Covid cases were coming in at a fast rate. “Both centres have facilities comparable to L1 category hospitals and what is more overwhelming is that all facilities are free-of-cost, including oxygen, medicines and treatment. These centres are also used for patients who have recovered but have no separate room at home for home isolation. This year we did not open L1 centres as infection was severe and L2/L3 category health-care hospitals were primarily used,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/notforprofit-covid-centres-come-to-aid-of-patients-in-ghaziabad-101621967650960.html
26-05-2021||Noida||Project Aasra: 15 Covid-affected children receive benefits||Noida: As many as 15 children affected by the Covid-19 pandemic in Gautam Budh Nagar have so far received benefits from the district police’s initiative -- project Aasra -- which was launched on April 29 in the district.Under the initiative, a helpline -- 9870395200 -- was launched to help children who have either lost parents to Covid-19 or whose families tested positive and thus unable to look after them. The police department had urged the public to come forward as volunteers and provide help with food, medicines, transport, among others. “So far, 15 children have received benefits while 101 volunteers have come forward to provide necessary aid. More volunteers are joining every day,” said Vrinda Shukla, deputy commissioner of police (women and child safety).Officials said that of 15 children, four have lost their parents to Covid-19 in May. They are two sibling pairs: brother and sister aged 10 years and eight years and two brothers aged 15 years and seven years. The first pair is now under the care of their aged grandparents and the other is with their maternal uncle, a daily wage earner, Shukla said, adding that both the sibling pairs are from Greater Noida.The initiative has already been able to sponsor the education of the first pair for one year, the officials said.“The teen boy was working at a roadside eatery and we are trying to get him trained as electrician or plumber. His younger brother is in class 4 and efforts are on for education sponsorship,” said the DCP.The officials said they are concerned about cases that may be going unreported, especially in rural belt.“We need to increase the reach of the project at the ground level. We will ask the health department to share the project details with the Covid-dedicated hospitals,” said another police official.According to the officials, the basic education department has also shared a video detailing the fine points of the initiative with the teachers. Information about children being affected by the pandemic can also be shared at the police helpline (112) and the Childline (1098), the officials said.FXN India Suraksha, the NGO managing the district Childline, is also a part of the initiative. “After the initial help, the Childline will take over the care of the children. We want to help as many beneficiaries as possible. People should provide any leads they have for children who have been affected in this manner,” said Satya Prakash, programme manager, FXN India Suraksha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/project-aasra-15-covid-affected-children-receive-benefits-101621967531591.html
26-05-2021||Noida||Covid-19 infects 291 minors in second wave till now, no death||Only 291 of the 35,609 positive cases (0.8%) detected in Gautam Budh Nagar between April 1 and May 24 were of children, according to data from the district health department.The district chief medical officer (CMO), Dr Deepak Ohri, said that there had been no deaths under this category. “Of the infected, 233 have already recovered under home isolation, and only 58 are active cases -- 18 in Covid-dedicated facilities and the rest still under home isolation,” he said.The data confirms what experts have been saying all along, that children are more likely to recover and more likely to contract a mild form of the disease, if infected.Dr DK Gupta, director of the Super Specialty Paediatric Hospital and Post Graduate Teaching Institute (SSPHPGTI) – the only children’s hospital in the district at the moment – said that the pattern of Covid-19 infection has remained same in both the first wave last year and the ongoing second wave.“There have been no deaths of children so far. During the first wave, out of those 16 critically ill patients – who had multiple co-morbidities like kidney failure, cancer and cardiac problems – we couldn’t save the lives of three,” he said.On Monday, All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Delhi, director Dr Randeep Guleria said they had no evidence that children would be more affected in the event of a third wave.“I agree with Dr Guleria’s opinion. These (that children will be more affected) are assumptions, which is far away from the reality. Medical sciences do not rely on assumptions as it causes panic. I firmly believe that the trend of Covid-19 impact will remain the same in the third wave and people need not fear,” Gupta said.Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) director Dr Rakesh Gupta, who once headed the department of paediatrics in the Armed Force Medical College (AFMC), Pune, said that since a large number of adults are likely to have taken their vaccination by the time of a possible third wave, the share of infections in minors will likely be more. “But if the scientific valuation is any indication, the infection is not going to be as fatal as in cases of adults,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/covid19-infects-291-minors-in-second-wave-till-now-no-death-101621967530869.html
26-05-2021||Noida||Walk-in registration for 18-44 group not started in UP yet, says Noida health dept||There was an unusual rush for vaccines against Covid-19 at several Gautam Budh Nagar government-run vaccination centres on Tuesday.The reason was that several had heard the headlines that the central government had allowed walk-in registration for vaccines for those who were in the 18-45 age category. The move is aimed at reducing vaccine wastage and providing help to those without access to internet or smartphones.What they didn’t realise that the Centre had also added that it would be left up to the respective state government to implement it or not.And Uttar Pradesh hadn’t, yet.“The facility for walk-in registration of vaccination for the 18-45 age group at government centres is not there in UP yet. Only online registrations and appointments for vaccination are accepted till further orders,” read a statement issued by the GB Nagar health department.Residents said that they hoped the government would allow the walk-in option. “Scheduling appointments online is not possible for everyone. Sometimes slots get booked in a few minutes. Besides, some people do not have access to the necessary infrastructure,” said K K Jain, secretary general, Federation of Noida Residents Welfare Associations.Meanwhile, district officials said they have increased the number of Covid-19 vaccination centres (CVC) from 37 to 59. “The drive-through centre at GIP mall has now been shifted to the mall’s basement due to the higher temperatures outside,” said Gajender Singh, the district nodal vaccination officer.On Monday, the new CVCs had a combined capacity to inoculate 4,300 people. Five of these are in Dankaur, five in Noida, three in Jewar, two in Dadri and seven in Greater Noida.In addition, the drive-through centres have also been increased to 10. The new centres are at Pathways School in Sector 100 , Millennium School near Sector 119, Cambridge School in Knowledge Park 1, Aster Public School in Delta-II and Pragyan Public School in Jewar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/walkin-registration-for-18-44-group-not-started-in-up-yet-says-noida-health-dept-101621967470933.html
26-05-2021||Noida||Noida: Better safe than sorry, say schools, Class 12 students||With the Centre and states yet to come to terms on conducting the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) Class 12 board exams, parents, teachers and student in Noida are a concerned lot.On one hand is the safety of students, and on the other is their future. Even harder hit are those students who have lost one or more of their parents, relatives or friends to Covid-19’s second wave that ravaged the city. The exams were earlier scheduled to begin from May 4. On April 14, the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) postponed it due to the pandemic. On Tuesday, most states are learnt to have opted for conducting class 12 exams, picking a proposed method that involves a shorter duration for the tests, holding them at schools where students are enrolled, and switching to only multiple choice and short-answer questions, a few opted for conducting it at designated centres, and some also wanted the exam scrapped. A final decision is likely on June 1.Schools back cautionKamini Bhasin, principal of DPS Noida, says that neither options were “foolproof”. “The children as well as school are confused. In any case, we await the final announcement so that we can start preparing to conduct the exams,” she said.Renu Singh, principal of Amity International School, said it would have been better to have followed the Class 10 assessment that was based on internal assessment. “Our school has over 500 students in Class 12 and asking all of them to step out and appear for an exam now is unthinkable,” she said.“In any case medical, engineering and even some departments in Delhi University hold their own entrance exams online that can decide students’ career path,” said Yashika Bhardwaj, principal of KR Mangalam World School, Vaishali, and a telecounsellor for the CBSE.Students’ distressAstha Singh, a resident of Sector 53 and student of Amity International School, said the mental stress on students was real. “I have seen many of my friends losing one or both of their parents due to Covid. It is a very difficult time for them. We have this underlying fear that we may bring the virus back home after the exam,” she said.Indirapuram resident and DPS Noida student Ankita Pathak had won a scholarship at a university in Canada for a course in business administration. “By now I would have been packing for Canada. However, with delayed exams and flights to Canada banned, those plans are on hold. I would’ve liked the board exams be optional and internal assessments be the basis of qualification,” she said, adding that the university offered to hold her seat till the situation eased.Shantanu Sharma from Amity International School too had a similar problem. He has been accepted at a university in Netherlands for anautomotive engineering course. “The academic year is set to start in September and if boards are held from July to August, as the CBSE suggested, we hope to get the results before deadline (CBSE plan is to give results in September),” he said.Foreign universities and colleges accept students based on letter of recommendations from the school with the condition that they present their final exam results before the start of the academic session. “As international universities operate on standard timelines, interested students are concerned about the admission process,” Rajiv Bansal, director of operations of Global Indian International School.Some are also changing plans and looking at applying to private universities. “I aimed to get a seat at one of the National Law Universities in India or pursue Economics in Delhi University. But now I feel I need another option as well so I am also appearing for entrances of private law universities,” said Kanishk Srinivas, a sector 62 resident and student of DPS Noida.Most kids are 17, give them vaccine: ParentsSome parents assume that since most Class 12 students were just a year away from being eligible for the vaccinations, it would be safe to vaccinate them.Manoj Kataria, president of Gautam Buddh Nagar Parents’ Welfare Society said, “Holding board exams at such a distressful time could be harmful for the students’ well being. Moreover, parents are concerned for the well being of their children as well,” he said. “These can become a super spreader event. Moreover, reports say that the third wave is going to affect children and we cannot take a chance,” said Preet Bhargava, a resident of Greater Noida West whose son is a student of Class 12.However, experts said that demand for vaccination is not a solution. “Union ministry of health has not given any directives for vaccination for children yet, hence we cannot comment on that. However, this is not a solution in the current scenario. Efforts should instead be made from the authorities as well as students and parents side to ensure that proper Covid protocols are followed when exams are held. Usually we see parents gather at exam centres when board exams are being held. Such a situation should be avoided at all costs,” said Dr NK Sharma, IMA President (Noida Chapter).On Monday, New Delhi All India Institute of Medical Sciences director Dr Randeep Guleria said, “If we look at the data, and compare both the Covid-19 waves, children are usually protected as the numbers are fewer. Even if they get infection, the disease is usually mild.” He added that there was no proof that children would be more affected in the event of a third wave.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-better-safe-than-sorry-say-schools-class-12-students-101621967351543.html
