27-05-2021||Noida||Covid-19: Hospitals to train staff in handling children||Gautam Budh Nagar hospitals will be training their staff to ready themselves in the event of a third wave of Covid-19 infections that could possibly affect more children.The focus on children comes on the instructions of the government. While some reports indicated that children may be more affected in a third wave, experts have been saying that there was no evidence to support this theory.But since paediatrics is a specialised branch and in case the infection in children does prove to be severe, hospitals say they want to be ready.“We have 60 resident doctors and over 200 nurses who are being trained by two paediatric experts,” said Dr (major) Rakesh Gupta, director, Government Institute of Medical Sciences who is also the former head of the department of paediatrics in the Armed Force Medical College (AFMC), Pune. They will be instructed on how to handle children, triage and administering medicine.Dr Gupta added that on Wednesday, paediatric experts from government and private hospitals in the district came together to chalk out a plan to prepare for an expected third wave.In the first step, paediatricians will train staff in their own hospitals.Dr Ashutosh Sinha, additional director of Paediatrics, Fortis Hospital, said, “The trainings will help reduce an anticipated staff crunch in the paediatric wards. Uniform guidelines and standard operating procedure (SOPs) will also be created,” he said.Sharda Hospital in Greater Noida will also hold a virtual weeklong session for all health care workers in the district from 11am to 4pm on May 31. “Three paediatric experts from our hospital will train the participants,” said PK Gupta, chairman of the hospital.“Handling children is a bit sensitive. We will train nurses on how to administer medicines, and their doses along with how to handle the medicines. We will also advice on symptoms and the line of treatment,” said Dr Ashutosh Niranjan, medical superintendent at the hospital.The district health department too will hold similar sessions. “The dates have not been decided yet,” said Dr Deepak Ohri, Chief Medical Officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/hospitals-to-train-staff-in-handling-children-101622054114130.html
27-05-2021||Noida||Bed occupancy falls to 33%, ICU at 63% in Ghaziabad||There are considerably more vacant Covid beds available in Ghaziabad than what was the case at the starting of the month.On May 25 night, the overall bed occupancy stood at just 33% (1133 of 3409 beds occupied), and 499 of the 785 ICU beds occupied, according to official data. On May 1, there was not a single ICU bed available and the overall occupancy was 83.5% (where there were 3262 beds).From April 29 to May 5, the weekly average test positivity rate was nearly 41%, which dropped to 18% the next week and 5.37% the week after that. From May 20 to 26, the average weekly positivity rate was 3.78%.An expert said that the curfew from April 30 had helped in reducing the stress on hospital beds with reduction in cases.“During the period (April-May), the cases had spiked considerably, and we were also short on options. However, the situation has almost normalised now with all types of beds easily available in hospitals,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer. “We still have 229 patients on ventilators and another 89 on oxygen concentrators. The recovery case in such Covid patients is slow. We expect the ICU situation will further improve after 10-15 days.”Doctors said that the second wave saw patients taking longer to recover and hence, occupied beds for longer too.“Last year, the patients generally recovered within 7-8 days even in the ICU. But this year we witnessed recovery time of 10-15 days,” said Dr Sangeeta Garg, chief medical superintendent of Yashoda Hospital at Nehru Nagar.Others said that patients still on ventilator-support pose a major concern.“After the partial corona curfew was announced, the shortage of beds continued till May 10, but thereafter the cases started to decline,” said Dr Ashish Agarwal, president of Indian Medical Association.On Wednesday, district officials said that they have marked a 10-bedded paediatric ICU (PICU) and another 10-bedded neonatal intensive care unit (NICU) at Santosh Medical College, which is a government-acquired tertiary care Covid facility.“The arrangements are being made to tackle any shortage of beds in case a third wave happens. It is believed that children may be more affected at the time. Private hospitals have been asked to create PICU wards with 10 beds each. We will also start with 60-bedded dedicated healthcare facility for children,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate.Experts have earlier said that there is no evidence to support the claim that children will be impacted in the event of a third wave. They said that infected children may have a greater share in the overall infections in than previously but that would be because many adults would have got their vaccinations by then.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/bed-occupancy-falls-to-33-icu-at-63-in-ghaziabad-101622054054081.html
27-05-2021||Noida||Covid vaccination camps start in residential areas in Noida||Noida: Cherry County in Greater Noida West on Wednesday became the first residential society in Gautam Budh Nagar to start vaccinating residents on-campus.“Nearly 800 residents registered for the camp over Co-Win. We also had 250 society staff register themselves, while some residents also got their domestic helps to sign up,” said Gyaan Singh, a society resident. The camp was organised by Fortis Hospital, Noida. The camp started at 9.30am and went on till 6pm, in which nearly 400 people under the 18-45 years age group were inoculated with their first dose of Covishield. The rest will be vaccinated on Thursday, said the residents. Each beneficiary had to pay ₹1,050 for the shot and service. No adverse reaction was reported on Wednesday, they said.The health care staff, equipment and an ambulance were provided by the hospital.Such a camp has come as a relief for residents who found scheduling appointments over Co-Win difficult. “We had been trying to associate with private hospitals for a while to organise such camps. Other societies will host them soon as well,” said Abhishek Kumar, president, Noida Extension Flat Owners Welfare Association.Office bearers of residential bodies said that the idea has been popular with the public.“In less than a day, 250 residents registered and paid for the vaccination camp to be held tomorrow in our sector. Other sectors are also starting these drives in collaboration with private hospitals, making it easy for people to get themselves inoculated. Domestic helps, cooks, and guards are also being registered,” said KK Jain, president, Sector 34 RWA.Fortis Hospital’s zonal director Hardeep Singh said, “Fortis Noida is holding camps in Cherry County, Cleo County, Supertech Cape Town, Jaypee Greens, Mahagun Moderne, Aravali Apartments, Mahagun Maywoods, Gaur Atulyam, and Gaur City this month and the first week of June. People will be vaccinated with Covishield. Presently, we are planning to vaccinate about 700 people daily through this drive itself and we are aiming to vaccinate more and more people in the coming days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/covid-vaccination-camps-start-in-residential-areas-in-noida-101622053994059.html
27-05-2021||Noida||Need more liquid oxygen storage facility in Noida, say health officials||Noida: While Gautam Budh Nagar is now able to meet its oxygen demand amid a dip in Covid-19 cases, health officials have emphasised on increasing the storage facilities of liquid medical oxygen (LMO) in the district, keeping in mind any possibility of a third wave. According to the officials, the district needs to reduce its dependency on oxygen cylinders and focus more on LMO as it is “logistically and medically a better option”. They also said that some new storage tankers for LMO are being planned in the district and new PSA (pressure swing adsorption) plants or oxygen generating plants are being installed.“Currently, the demand for medical oxygen in the district is roughly between 80 to 85 metric tonnes (MT), while the total storage capacity, including LMO plants and all the cylinders, is around 125 MT. We need to enhance the LMO facilities. We are working on it,” said Dr Sweta Khurana, nodal officer for medical oxygen, GB Nagar. At present, the district has 113 MT of LMO holding facilities across 13 private and public hospitals, the officials said. “We are working to increase the LMO tanker storage capacity keeping the future emergencies and likely third Covid wave in mind. Also, we aim to reduce our dependency on oxygen cylinders as LMO tankers are better option logistically and medically as they have better pressure and can be available on time, while cylinders are better for home-isolated patients,” Khurana added.According to the GB Nagar chief medical officer (CMO), Dr Deepak Ohri, oxygen from LMO plant is cleaner as compared to the oxygen cylinders. “An LMO plant stores oxygen in fluid form and there is assurance of its purity while the purity of oxygen depends on the condition of cylinders which often are not cleaned properly. There are high chances of black fungus and other bacterial infections in cylinders especially when they are stored in high humid areas. Besides, an LMO plant stores more oxygen in lesser space,” said Ohri.He further said that work will soon begin on installing new oxygen generating plants and LMO storage tankers in community health centres at Jewar, Bhangel, Badalpur and Dadha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/need-more-liquid-oxygen-storage-facility-in-noida-say-health-officials-101622053934108.html
27-05-2021||Noida||At UP Gate, ‘Black Day’ observed to mark six months of farmer protest||Ghaziabad: Hundreds of farmers protesting against the Centre’s three new farm laws at the UP Gate marked six months of their agitation on Wednesday by observing a “Black Day” and burning effigies of the government. Later, farmer leaders, who have been demanding the rollback of the farm laws, said that the government is using Covid-19 just as an “alibi so that the laws stay”. During the protest, the farmers also waved black flags to press for their demands. Farmer leader Jagtar Singh Bajwa, who is a member of UP Gate farmers’ committee, said that about 1,000 farmers gathered to observe “Kala Diwas (Black Day)”, but they followed all Covid protocols. According to the directions of the UP government, the state faces partial Covid-19 curfew, and processions or gatherings are banned. The partial curfew came into effect on the night of April 30 and would continue till May 31.“We did not call farmers, but they arrived on their own. We observed social distancing, and everyone was wearing a mask. We waved black flags and burnt effigies. Flags were also waived by people in villages as mark of protest. For past six months, there has been no solution and we will continue our movement,” Bajwa added. The farmers are staying put at the UP Gate site since November 28 last year and also occupying the Ghaziabad-Delhi carriageway of the Delhi-Meerut Expressway since December 3. The several talks with the Centre have failed to break the deadlock. The Ghaziabad police had made elaborate arrangements on Wednesday and said that the protest by farmers went on peacefully. “They brought black flags and also tried to burn effigies. When we tried to stop them, they entered jurisdiction of Delhi. About 700-800 protesters had gathered today, which was higher than what normally is nowadays. Majority of them arrived from Uttarakhand. The police deployment was there, and the protest passed of peacefully,” said Gyanendra Kumar Singh, superintendent of police (city 2).Meanwhile, farmer leader Rakesh Tikait said it seems that the agitation will get prolonged. “The government does not ready to talk to peaceful protesters. We ask if Covid is a bigger issue or farm laws are a bigger issue. If Covid is a bigger issue, they should take back the laws and farmers will return home. But Covid is just taken as alibi so that laws continue to stay. But we will carry our our protest peacefully,” Tikait said at the UP Gate on Wednesday. The last talks between the farm union leaders and the government were held on January 22. “During the peak of the pandemic, an injection which costs ₹400-800 was sold for thousands of rupees and oxygen cylinders were refilled for as high as ₹20,000. Common man suffered. They faced similar situation like farmers will face with the new laws. We have sent letters and if the government talks to us, we will talk. But we have to be prepared for any eventuality. If they snap our electricity supply, we will disconnect supply of electricity to police stations and administrative offices,” Tikait added. Tikait, during the earlier days of the agitation, had alleged that with the new laws, the crops of farmers would go to corporates and farmers would suffer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/at-up-gate-black-day-observed-to-mark-six-months-of-farmer-protest-101622053874122.html
