28-05-2021||Noida||Farmers protest at Jewar toll plaza on Yamuna Expressway||A group of farmers protesting against the central farm laws on Friday staged a demonstration at the Jewar toll plaza here, partially disrupting traffic movement on the Yamuna Expressway, according to officials.The farmers belonging to the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) had reached Jewar in Gautam Buddh Nagar on Thursday with an objective to stage the demonstration as part of their plan to carry out similar protests at some other toll plazas in western Uttar Pradesh.According to police officials, some of the protestors, including a local leader of the group, were taken to the Jewar police station around midnight.“They were brought to the station for a dialogue. We had requested them to call off the protest and vacate the toll plaza but they were reluctant to recede,” SHO, Jewar police station, Umesh Singh, told PTI.The protestors went back from the police station after some time and carried on with their demonstration that continued on Friday morning also with them occupying two lanes of the Yamuna Expressway, according to officials.“The Jewar toll plaza is open for vehicular movement. Only two lanes are blocked because of the farmers' protest,” a Traffic Police official said.After observing 'Black Day' on May 26, the BKU, which has been demanding the repeal of the three new central farm laws since November 2020, has intensified its protest in parts of Uttar Pradesh since Thursday.“Members of the farmers union are staging protest at five toll plazas in western Uttar Pradesh. These toll plazas are located in Gautam Buddh Nagar, Meerut, Amroha, Moradabad and Muzaffarnagar,” BKU media in-charge Dharmendra Malik said.Supporters of the BKU, led by Rakesh Tikait, have been camping at Ghazipur on the Delhi-UP border since November 2020 with a demand that the Centre repeal the three contentious farm laws brought in last year. The farmers claim that these laws would hurt their livelihood and leave them at the mercy of corporations.The government, which has held multiple rounds of official dialogue with the protestors, has maintained that the laws are pro-farmer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/farmers-protest-at-jewar-toll-plaza-on-yamuna-expressway-101622195066523.html
28-05-2021||Noida||Greater Noida extends deadline to apply for affordable flat scheme||GREATER NOIDA: The Greater Noida authority said Thursday it has extended the deadline to apply for its affordable apartment scheme in sectors 1, 2 and 3 in Greater Noida West till June 25. The previous deadline to apply for this scheme was April 10. The process had been put on hold, however, due to the partial curfew owing to Covid-19.Officials said people can via the authority’s website: greaternoidaauthority.com, along with a draft of ₹5,000.“Once we have all details of people who want to buy flats under this scheme we will finish formalities and start construction,” said Deep Chand, additional chief executive officer of the authority.Under this scheme, the authority will build the 10,000 units with support from private developers. To make the project economically viable, the authority will allow the developers to use 10% of the total project for commercial purposes. After applications are in, a verification done by a district-level agency will verify if the applicant belongs to the economically weaker section (EWS) category or not. “After verification we will decide on further progress on the scheme, to be launched on public-private-partnership,” Chand said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/greater-noida-extends-deadline-to-apply-for-affordable-flat-scheme-101622140802397.html
28-05-2021||Noida||Man fires outside Greater Noida clinic after being asked to wear mask||Noida: A 22-year-old man allegedly fired in the air outside a doctor’s clinic in Greater Noida on Thursday after the clinic staff tried to stop him from entering as he was not wearing a face mask. While the man is on the run, his friend who accompanied him during the incident has been arrested, police said. The suspects were identified as Parmeet, a resident of Phulpur village, and his friend Rahul Kashyap. According to the police officials, Parmeet had gone to see a doctor in Greater Noida’s Dadupur village under Jarcha police station. “Parmeet entered the clinic without a mask after which the clinic staff and the doctor asked him to wear a mask. This soon turned into a heated argument. Parmeet left the area and came an hour later with a pistol and his friend Rahul. He then used abusive language to intimidate the doctor and clinic workers, and fired a few rounds in the air outside the clinic. Police arrested Rahul while Parmeet is on the run. We are investigating the matter,” said Vishal Pandey, additional deputy commissioner of police, Greater Noida.The officials said that a case was registered against the suspects under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code at Jarcha police station. “We have registered an FIR and are interrogating Rahul for more details. We are looking for Parmeet and he will be arrested soon,” said Sripal Singh, station house officer, Jarcha police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/man-fires-outside-greater-noida-clinic-after-being-asked-to-wear-mask-101622140741389.html
28-05-2021||Noida||21-year-old sanitation worker dies while cleaning sewer in Greater Noida||Greater Noida: A 21-year old working as a sanitation employee, working under a private contractor of the Greater Noida authority, was killed Thursday after stepping into a sewer to clean it.According to officials, the victim, Krishna (identified by a single name), who lived in Gharbara village of Greater Noida, was sent inside a sewage line in Surajpur area allegedly without any gear or safety equipment.When Krishna didn’t respond for some time, a fire brigade was called to rescue him. A firefighter went down the sewer wearing breathing apparatus to retrieve the victim tied to a rope in a 40 minute-long operation. The victim was soon rushed to a nearby hospital where he was declared brought dead, the police said.“The sewer was very narrow and about 30 to 40 feet deep and it took around 40 minutes for our personnel to rescue the unconscious man, who seemed to have some life in him at that time. The victim was wearing no gear or safety equipment; he was wearing only shorts and a vest. He was rushed to the nearest hospital. There are poisonous gases in the sewer that make it very unsafe to work without any gear; even our personnel had to wear breathing apparatus before going in,” said Jitendra Kumar, fire station officer, Greater Noida.The police later registered an FIR under Section 304 of the IPC against Neeraj Bhati, the authority’s contractor and Jai Prakash, the site incharge.“The victim was soon rushed to a hospital where he was declared brought dead. He must have suffocated as they are poisonous gases, especially in summers, down the gutter. He was sent down to clean their line manually to reinstate the flow without any safety equipment. We have registered an FIR against the private contractor and the site in charge, and are waiting for the post-mortem report,” said Ajay Kumar, SHO, Surajpur.Manual scavenging - that accounts for manually cleaning sewers, septic tanks and others - is banned under the Prohibition of Employment as Manual Scavengers and Their Rehabilitation Act, 2013. Officials at the authority, meanwhile, said that they have ordered an enquiry into the matter.“We had earlier made it very clear that no worker would be sent down the pit without safety gear. We had also provided all protective gear and oxygen masks however, in this case, it seems the directions were violated. We have ordered an enquiry and it seems that a private contractor with the Greater Noida authority is responsible. The concerned official has filed an FIR. However, the act does not amount to manual scavenging,” said Narendra Bhooshan, CEO, Greater Noida authority. However, activists differed. “This is a clear case of manual scavenging. An act that accounts to anyone manually cleaning sewer or septic tank that has human excreta in it accounts for manual scavenging and is prohibited, but unfortunately there is very less awareness on it and it continues across India, including in the national capital,” said Bezwada Wilson, the national convener of Safai Karamchari Aandolan — a human rights organisation campaigning for eradication of manual scavenging. A total of 340 people had died due to cleaning sewers in the past five years till December 31, 2020 of which Uttar Pradesh, at 52, accounts for the highest number of deaths, Ramdas Athawale, the minister of state for social justice and empowerment, had informed the parliament in February 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/21yearold-sanitation-worker-dies-while-cleaning-sewer-in-greater-noida-101622140740790.html
28-05-2021||Noida||Covid fatality rate doubled in second wave in GB Nagar||NOIDA: On March 31 this year, the case fatality rate (CFR) of Gautam Budh Nagar was 0.34% with 91 deaths out of 26,100 Covid-19 cases. But the CFR has now gone up to 0.69% in nearly two months, with 343 deaths and 36,018 new cases till Thursday, according to data from the state health department.However, with 59,373 recoveries out of total 62,118 Covid-19 cases till Thursday, the recovery rate in the district has now gone to 95.44%, the data showed. GB Nagar district magistrate Suhas LY said that it was really a tough time after March as the number of deaths and new cases suddenly went up. “There was an ultimate crunch of oxygen and remdesivir for a day or two. We were also worried about ICU beds in the hospitals. But, we streamlined the entire thing soon. Now, the new cases are continuously going down. We want to reduce the number of deaths to a negligible level,” he said. On Thursday, GB Nagar reported 133 new Covid-19 cases, taking the tally of active cases to 2,310 in the district. It also recorded six deaths due to the viral infection, according to the state’s daily health bulletin.Claiming that the second wave of Covid-19 infection is coming under control, the DM also said that the district’s health infrastructure is being ramped up, with focus on children in order to deal with a possible third wave of the pandemic. “At present, our main focus is on rural areas. We’ve been carrying out a house-to-house survey of all villages and urban areas in the district. So far, we’ve tested 11,45,726 samples in the district, which is almost half of its population,” he said. Dr Deepak Ohri, GB Nagar chief medical officer, said that apart from conducting massive testing in different villages, the vaccination drive is also going in full swing in the district. “Till date, over 5.35 lakh people from different age groups have received their jabs in the district. Nearly one lakh of them have taken their second shot also,” he said. The CMO also said that 13 new vaccination centres, for the age group of 18 to 45 years, will start from Friday. “To get the vaccine, a beneficiary will have to be registered on Co-WIN app. After that, the slots will be allotted. The vaccination will take place from 10am to 5pm,” he said.On Thursday, the district had a total of 81 vaccination centres, the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/covid-fatality-rate-doubled-in-second-wave-in-gb-nagar-101622140681506.html
28-05-2021||Noida||Non-Covid patients in Noida suffer from delayed treatments||Kaushambi resident Vijay Prakash Mathur, 77, was scheduled for a brain tumour removal surgery in April this year. But when three members of his family contracted Covid-19, it was postponed.It took a month for the family to recover from the viral disease, but by then, the tumour had grown.On May 21, Mathur became unresponsive and had to be admitted to an ICU with a ventilator.“Doctors now say the surgery is no longer an option. Had he been operated on in April itself, this wouldn’t have happened. Now, his survival chances are slim,” said Abhimanyu, his son.The pandemic, especially its second wave from April, has forced many non-Covid patients to postpone their treatment owing to the fear of catching the disease. CancerSome of these treatments include chemotherapy for cancer.“Patients do not want to step into a hospital. Yes, there are some cases where Covid cases in the family have also led to delaying of medical procedures. In such a situation, diseases such as cancer can progress after which the treatment and procedures become complicated,” said Dr Shubham Garg, senior consultant, surgical oncology at Fortis Hospital, Noida. The doctor consults 30-35 cancer patients every week. Dr. Arun Goel, senior director of oncology, Max Super Speciality Hospital in Vaishali, said that he advisedhis patients not to be afraid of coming to the hospital as the Covid wards were separate from the cancer wards. “I tell them that the risk of delaying procedure like a chemotherapy will be harmful. However for some patients, there was no other option as their caregivers got Covid-19 so they could come for their scheduled session,” he said. DialysisPatients who require a dialysis two to three times a week have also cut down on their visits. “Many of our patients are from other districts as well. But the lockdown has been a deterrent. If patients do not take dialysis on time, it can lead to several complications like heavy breathing, nausea, vomiting and lack of appetite,” said Dr Puneet Gupta, head of nephrology at Sharda Hospital, Greater Noida. He added that currently the hospital conducts dialysis for 200 patients a month and also has 50-60 Covid patients requiring dialysis.The curfew in Uttar Pradesh, in force from April 30, excludes patients who require critical care but the overarching fear of contracting the disease has overridden some of them. At Max Hospital, Dr Manoj K. Singhal, senior director of nephrology and kidney transplantation, recalls the case of one such patient. “He was 60 years old and required dialysis thrice a week as his kidneys had failed. He reduced it to one to two sessions a week against our advice. Within three weeks, his condition worsened, and he suddenly developed shortness of breath. As it was a peak Covid surge time, we could not arrange a bed for him in the emergency and he eventually passed away,” he said.The unprecedented rise in the number of Covid patients has overburdened city hospitals. Most government and private hospitals in GB Nagar have been converted to Covid facilities.“We are going ahead with the emergency surgeries but have asked patients seeking elective surgeries to delay. For some like dialysis, we are advising home-based setups, but a delay in critical cases like kidney ailment or cancer cases may lead to steady worsening of the condition or even death,” said Dr. Deepak Verma, Internal Medicine, Columbia Asia Hospital, Ghaziabad.Among babiesDr Dheeraj Sharma, associate professor (paediatric cardiac surgery at SSPHPGTI) said congenital heart disease require surgery within six months to a year of birth. “This golden period too has been missed,” he said. “Last year we were supposed to operate on 105 babies. But the pandemic and the lockdown got in the way of many. By November, when we contacted these families, it turned out that some of these children had passed away.”Even regular vaccinations have been affected.“Hepatitis B1, Hepatitis B2, Haemophilus Influenzae Type B vaccinations that are required to be given within a year of birth. Not giving these will expose the child to these diseases and severely affect them and shorten their lives,” said Dr DK Gupta, CMD, Felix Hospital, Noida .Blood donationsBlood banks ran dry during the period cutting off supply to hospitals that required them for emergency surgeries or for those patients who required routine blood transfusions.“Usually, blood banks have enough stock as people donate every now and then and we keep holding blood donation camps as well. Blood is required often for surgeries, for pregnant women and new-borns as well. Thalassemia, leukaemia and aplastic anaemia patients also require regular blood transfusions. We tried to help, but many times we had to ask the patients to arrange a blood donor from their family,” said Dr Satyam Arora, associate professor (transfusion medicine) at Superspeciality Paediatric Hospital & Postgraduate Teaching Institute (SSPHPGTI), Noida. He added that the hospital had over 100 thalassemia patients a month.HIVHIV patients have to get a monthly anti-retroviral therapy (ART) kit from their registered centres to keep their immunity up. Since the pandemic, these centres have been providing three months’ kits to their patients.“This is so that HIV patients do not have to come to the centre every month. As their immune system is compromised, they are more susceptible to the coronavirus,” said Dr Sheel Varma, medical officer at one such centre at MMG District Hospital, Ghaziabad.Home health care The fear has pushed people suffering from various ailments to opt for home health care services instead of going to hospitals for treatment.“We have seen a rise of 70% for homecare facilities such as tele-medicine, tele-consultation, X-ray, sample collection and physiotherapy. We have also seen an increasing trend of 40% enhanced demand of our home critical care services as many non-Covid patients wanted an ICU set up at home and treated there,” said Dr Shabnam Mir, Consultant Physician and Head of Clinical Services at Antara, a Max Group company specializing in senior care.District authorities, meanwhile, said patients need not worry. “Non-covid patients should not delay treatment over Covid worries. At hospitals that treat both Covid and non-Covid patients, separate arrangements like designated floors, entries and exits are made, so chances of contracting the virus are minimised,” said Dr Deepak Ohri, chief medical officer, GB Nagar||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noncovid-patients-in-noida-suffer-from-delayed-treatments-101622140680867.html
28-05-2021||Noida||Yoga, indoor games keep patients’ morale high at Covid centre in Noida Stadium||Noida: For Greater Noida west resident Satish Kaul (65), playing carrom in the evening with his friends at the Covid care facility in Noida Stadium is one of the highlights of his day. Kaul is one of the 13 patients who are admitted at the temporary 50-bed facility launched by the Noida authority on May 8.From starting their day with Yoga to ending it with games and TV, patients at this facility say they don’t miss home. The facility is run by 80 health care staff, including 23 doctors from Delhi-based NGO Doctors For You, who also hold motivational talks and counselling sessions for the patients.“I start my day here with Yoga and after resting through the day, I play indoor games like carrom, chess or ludo with the other patients, who have now become my friends. Not just the patients, but the staff also do not let us miss our home as they feel like family,” said Kaul, who used to work in the hospitality industry before retiring. He was admitted to the facility on May 11.He added that counselling and motivational talks have helped him keep a positive outlook towards life. “The doctors keep all patients mentally strong and keep telling us of cases where patients recovered; that makes us feel that we can fight this virus too,” said Kaul.The youngest patient at the facility is five-year-old Yashraj Mukherjee, who has become a favourite among all health care staff there.“Everyone here loves Yashraj and spends time playing with him whenever they are on their routine rounds. Yashraj is busy throughout the day playing carom, ludo or darts. He tested negative a few days back but since I and my husband are still recovering, all of us have to stay here longer as I do not have any one else back home to take care of him,” said his mother Sanchari Joydeep Mukherjee, a resident of Sector 46 who was admitted on May 11 with her husband and son.The 43-year-old was earlier admitted to the Noida Covid Hospital in Sector 39 on May 7 in the emergency wing and later her husband and son were admitted there as well. Once their condition stabilised, they were admitted to the facility on May 11.“When we came here, we were not in the right state of mind but the staff here has helped us keep our morale high. I was worried about my son but he stays entertained throughout the day playing games with other patients and staff. The kindness and empathy shown to all patients has made us realise that we can fight any battle with positive thinking,” she added.Since it was opened, the L1 facility has had 64 admissions of Covid patients. Currently the centre has 13 patients.“Twelve patients were discharged after recovering fully and testing negative while 17 others left on their own as their condition stabilised. We had to refer about 13 to other hospitals,” said Dr Rohini Wadhawan, in-charge of the facility.Unlike other illnesses, having Covid can make a patient feel lonely as they have to be insolation, and this can have an adverse effect on their mental well being, says Dr Wadhawan. “To ensure that this doesn’t happen, we offer video calling for patients so they can speak to their families. Though all of them have their phones with them, often older patients do not know how to video call so we arrange that for them. Seeing the faces of their family members after a long time brings them joy,” she said.The doctors also regularly update the family members of the patients admitted here on their condition and vitals, they added.All 50 beds at the facility are equipped with oxygen. However, only patients with oxygen levels above 75-80 are admitted here as it’s a L1 facility.“We try to keep a homely environment at the facility as patients panic when they find out they are positive. We hold motivational talks, physiotherapy sessions, yoga and indoor games for the patients so that they stay engaged. We tell them that they can defeat the virus by not just being physically strong but mentally as well,” said Dr Rajat Jain, president of Doctors For You.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/yoga-indoor-games-keep-patients-morale-high-at-covid-centre-in-noida-stadium-101622140621490.html
28-05-2021||Noida||In Ghaziabad, 102 villages have no active Covid-19 case||Ghaziabad: The Ghaziabad administration on Thursday said that 102 of 161 villages in the district do not have any active Covid-19 case and the rest are likely to become Covid-free in the next 10 days. The officials have attributed the development to the “voluntary community containment programme”, which was initiated on May 22. According to a survey by the district administration, 22 in Razapur block, 26 in Loni, 39 in Muradnagar and 15 in Bhojpur are Covid-free now. “The 102 villages surveyed by our teams have no active case at present. Our ‘voluntary community containment programme’ has helped us control the infection in villages. Under the programme, villagers are observing restrictions like opening of shops for a brief time period, community policing and restricting outsiders’ entry to villages,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate. “The programme will continue to ensure that no more cases surface further in villages which are Covid-free. The distribution of free medical kits and active participation by ‘gram nigrani samitis’ have also helped check the spread of infection,” he added. On Thursday, Ghaziabad had 54,752 total cases that included 429 deaths, 52,279 patients discharged and 2,044 active cases, according to the state’s daily health bulletin. According to the official figures, about 17,500 tests were conducted across the rural segments during the last five days under the programme which resulted in 252 positive cases. “After the panchayat elections ended on April 15, we stopped entry of outsiders and street vendors. Under the programme initiated by the administration, we asked our shop owners to open shops for limited period of time and villagers also helped in ensuring that Covid protocols were followed. In April, there were about 25 cases. But now, we have no active cases,” said Ashok Kumar, pradhan of Matiyala village. According to the figures, the rural segments of Loni, Modi Nagar and Muradnagar witnessed 644, 451 and 445 Covid cases in April, respectively. During the first 23 days of May, the cases witnessed a spike and stood at 941 and 759 in Modi Nagar and Muradnagar, respectively. However, in Loni, the cases dipped to 317 during the same period. The scenario led the district administration to shift focus to rural areas.The district magistrate also directed the municipal corporation for a survey to find out Covid-free residential wards under the municipal area. Municipal officials said that the survey is on and the figures will be received in a couple of days. “Our teams are conducting surveys in all 100 residential wards and likely to complete it in a day or two. We are also taking help of other sources to determine Covid-free wards,” said MS Tanwar, municipal commissioner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/in-ghaziabad-102-villages-have-no-active-covid-19-case-101622140561439.html
28-05-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad: Govt hospitals lack facilities to treat black fungus patients||Ghaziabad: A week after the post-Covid outpatient department (OPD) got operational at the MMG District Hospital in Ghaziabad, eight cases of black fungus (mucormycosis) have been detected so far. However, all the patients have been referred to the Meerut Medical College as the government hospitals in Ghaziabad do not have the adequate infrastructure to treat such patients, health officials said. According to the officials, the Meerut division, comprising Ghaziabad and Gautam Budh Nagar districts, has a total of 179 cases of the fungal infection. At present, Ghaziabad has 28 black fungus patients who are getting treatment at different private medical facilities, the officials said.“In the last one week, we have had eight patients diagnosed with black fungus at the post-Covid OPD. All of them were referred to Meerut. Most of the patients are in the age group of 40 years and above, and having moderate complications. About 15 patients visit the post-Covid OPD daily,” said Dr Anurag Bhargava, chief medical superintendent of MMG hospital. However, the facility falls short of adequate infrastructure for black fungus disease. “We are relying on visual observation and also blood tests of patients. Two tests -- biopsy and MRI of brain -- are conducted for detection of mucormycosis. But both the tests are not available here. So, we refer patients to Meerut Medical College,” Bhargava added. The fungus is stated to affect sinus, eyes and even brain where it can turn fatal. Officials of the district health department said that for detection of the fungus, they rely on two types of tests that include CT scan of paranasal sinuses (CT-PNS) and MRI of brain. “The CT-PNS test is available at our Sanjay Nagar government hospital, while we do not have facility of brain MRI. It can be done at private health-care facilities. Black fungus patients are referred to Meerut Medical College as the treatment facility for black fungus patients is only available there. Also, stock of Amphotericin injections (drug of choice for treating black fungus) is sent there by the state officials,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer, Ghaziabad.Experts taking up treatment of such patients in private health-care facilities said that government should upgrade the infrastructure at their hospitals. “For proper detection, nasal endoscope is used as the infection cannot be visible unless it spreads out of nose. We then take up culture test which tells us the type of fungus and then we perform histopathological examination to know about the extent of invasion. MRI of brain helps in cases where we have suspicion that the infection has gone to the brain,” said Dr BP Tyagi, senior ENT specialist at Harsh ENT Hospital, Raj Nagar District Centre. The private hospital has a list of 38 patients who are taking up or have taken the treatment for the fungus. “In case, the government facilities refer patients to us, we will give free treatment to them provided the government provides us Amphotericin injections for free. The drug is in short supply and hardly available,” Tyagi added. A divisional health department official familiar with the development admitted that the injections are in short supply. “We have a stock of 150 injections and it is expected that more stock will arrive by Thursday night. The Meerut division has 179 cases of black fungus that include 28 active patients in Ghaziabad,” the official said while requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/postcovid-opd-diagnose-eight-patients-of-black-fungus-in-a-week-referred-to-meerut-101622130659352.html
