29-05-2021||Noida||Vaccination picks up pace in Noida in last 15 days||Noida: In the past 15 days, the number of vaccinations administered per day at Gautam Budh Nagar’s Covid vaccination centres (CVCs) for all age groups has almost doubled, with around 7,000 doses being administered daily up to May 14, to over 13,000 from around Thursday onwards. The total number of vaccinations carried out at government CVCs on May 10 was 4,621, with 2,603 inoculated in the 18-45 category. This is in contrast with the figures of May 29, when the total vaccinations carried out in the district were 14,600, including 11,296 in the 18-45 category.By May 14, the average per day vaccinations by the Gautam Budh Nagar health department averaged around 6,000-7000 but since then to around Wednesday, the vaccinations went above 10,000 per day. If vaccinations administered at private centres are taken into account as well then on May 28, a total of 19,206 doses were given in the district, out of which 14,180 were at government centres, according to official data.Narendra Bhooshan, the nodal officer for Covid-19 in GB Nagar, said, “The vaccinations being carried out at workplaces vaccination centres (WVCs) and camps being held by private hospitals in residential areas is helping increase the inoculation numbers”.Moreover, ever since May 10 when vaccinations for the 18-44 category were started in the district, the health department has added 62 new government CVCs. On May 10, the district had 21 centres while on May 29, this figure had increased to 83.The district has an estimated population of 21 lakh, of which around 15 lakh to 16 lakh people are to be vaccinated. As of Saturday, 5,95,122 people in the district had been vaccinated, which is around 30% of the total targeted population for vaccinations, said district magistrate Suhas LY.“I believe the government centres as well as private ones can easily vaccinate 25,000 people in a day, combined. If this goes on at the same pace, within two-three months we shall be able to cover all of the 18+ population in the district with at least the first dose,” said Suhas.Workplace vaccinations kick off in NoidaMultinational firm UFlex kicked off a vaccination drive Saturday at its headquarters in Sector 62. The drive is set to cover 6,000 employees of the firm above the age of 18 working in facilities across Noida, including shop-floor workers and contract staff. Doses will be provided free-of-cost to employees, for which UFlex has tied up with Kailash Hospital in the city. The camps will be set up inside the company premises and plants across different locations. The company plans to complete the vaccination drive by June 5.Earlier, digital and business solutions firm Tech Mahindra Ltd had also rolled-out a vaccination drive for its associates and dependent family members above the age of 18 years at its office campuses at NSEZ in Sector 82. The company is covering the cost of vaccination and has partnered with Fortis Healthcare for the same.Meanwhile, Felix Hospital in Sector 137 launched a 24x7 vaccination drive-through facility at its hospital on Saturday. Here, beneficiaries will need to book their slot on Cowin for ₹900.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/vaccination-picks-up-pace-in-noida-in-last-15-days-101622309312375.html
29-05-2021||Noida||Greater Noida: Man nabbed for assaulting dentist over long waiting period||Greater Noida: A 21-year-old man was nabbed on Saturday for allegedly attacking a dentist with a knife in Dadri following an argument over a long waiting time. The dentist is undergoing treatment at a hospital, police said.The suspect was identified as Mohammad Kumail, a Jarcha native. According to police officials, he was visiting a local dentist, Ajay Ghosh Sharma (45), at Dadri’s Railway Road. “Kumail was allegedly having a toothache and had gone to see the doctor around 11 am. There was a waiting period. After a while, he got fed up and got into an argument with Sharma,” said additional deputy commissioner of police, zone 3, Vishal Pandey.The officials said that the argument soon escalated and resulted in the suspect assaulting Sharma with a vegetable knife. Locals immediately alerted police about the incident.“The victim was rushed to a nearby hospital where he is undergoing treatment. Sharma sustained minor injuries as the knife was blunt,” said Pandey.The suspect was taken into custody from the spot itself, said police. He was booked under Section 307(attempt to murder) of the Indian Penal Code at the Dadri police station. He will be produced before a magistrate after questioning, said police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/greater-noida-man-nabbed-for-assaulting-dentist-over-long-waiting-period-101622307393695.html
29-05-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad: Max Hospital asked to vaccinate 5k beneficiaries per day||In order to vaccinate more people falling in the 18-45 years age bracket, the district administration has asked the officials of Max Hospital in Vaishali to take up vaccination of about 5,000 beneficiaries per day, said officials aware of the matter. The target is quite high given that for the past five days, the 45 government centres and the vaccination sites at two private hospitals have been collectively able to vaccinate about 13,000 beneficiaries per day on an average. District magistrate of Ghaziabad Ajay Shankar Pandey said he held meeting with officials of Max Hospital, Vaishali, and asked them to vaccinate about 5,000 beneficiaries per day, primarily to inoculate people of the 18-45 age group. “The target is high but is the need of the hour. We need to scale up vaccination before another wave of the pandemic arrives. We held a meeting with officials of Max Hospital and suggested them that apart from in-house vaccination taken up at the hospital, they can conduct the inoculation drive at centralised locations like a school, mall or community halls,” said Pandey. “We have also directed that from now onwards, the vaccine stocks will only be given to the government vaccination centres while the private hospitals will have to arrange vaccines on their own,” he added. According to health department officials, Max Hospital is one of the two private hospitals which are taking up vaccination for the 18-45 and 45+ age groups, by charging a fee for the vaccine dose administered. Officials of Max Hospital said they will put in all efforts to meet the target set by the district administration. “To benefit the residents and safeguard them against Covid-19, we met the district magistrate and discussed ways to scale up the overall vaccination drive. We are currently conducting almost 1,000 vaccination per day, and these are all pre-booked through the CoWIN app. We have requested the district magistrate for approval to organise vaccination drive in RWAs as many Ghaziabad residents are not able to get slots through the app,” Dr Gaurav Aggarwal, senior vice-president (operations) of the hospital, said in a statement. “We are also looking to explore additional sites like community halls, schools for mass vaccination where residents can walk in and get vaccine shots,” read the statement. Starting June 1, the vaccination drive for people in the 18-45 age group will be extended to all districts as per directions from the UP government. At present, the vaccination drive for the said group is being undertaken in 23 districts, including Ghaziabad and Gautam Budh Nagar. According to the latest government order of May 26, the UP government has also issued directions for vaccination at the workplace for judicial officers, media persons, officials of the information department and other government workplace. A maximum of 50 beneficiaries falling in the 18-45 age group can be inoculated per day at the workplaces by facilitating on-the-spot registration. The government has also directed that 50 slots for inoculation also be reserved for people in the 45+ age group at workplaces. The UP government has also directed that vaccine centres be opened for parents having one or more children above the age of 12 years. “Currently, we have 45 government centres conducting 85 sessions per day. Last week, we vaccinated around 10,000 beneficiaries on average. This week, we scaled it up to an average of about 15000-16000 per day as vaccine stock was available,” said an officer from district health department, who wished not to be identified. “Now, we have to start eight workplace centres for government teachers, postal staff and two other centres for parents of children below 12 years of age. One of the two centres will be at a private school at Meerut Road while the other one will be at Kailash Mansarowar Bhawan at Indirapuram,” said the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-max-hospital-asked-to-vaccinate-5k-beneficiaries-per-day-101622307392210.html
29-05-2021||Noida||Noida: Rains likely in next two days, to bring mercury down||Noida: The combined effect of cyclone Yaas and western disturbances may bring light rains in Noida and adjoining areas over the next two days, weather experts at the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Saturday.According to IMD, while easterly winds already brought the mercury down by two notches in the past 24 hours, there are high chances of rains between May 31 and June 2 that would drop the mercury by three to four degrees Celsius (°C).“As a combined effect of cyclone Yaas and back-to-back western disturbances, the region (NCR) may see rain, light to moderate, between May 31 and June 2. The temperature will be around 36°C. There had been no incidents of heat wave in Delhi-NCR, including Noida, so far and June 15 onwards marks the beginning of pre-monsoon rainfall. So there are no chances of heat waves so far. As an effect of Yaas, strong easterly winds will keep bringing the strong moist winds in the region that will also keep the air quality under check,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of regional weather forecasting centre, IMD.The average wind speed in the region for the past three days has been 25 kmph, IMD said. According to IMD, Noida saw maximum and minimum temperatures of 37.4°C and 27.4°C on Saturday against 39.6 and 26.1°C a day earlier. At Safdarjung, considered average for NCR, the maximum and minimum temperatures were recorded at 37.5°C and 26.6°C, respectively.Meanwhile, the air quality index (AQI) of Noida on Saturday was 92 or ‘satisfactory’ against 118 (‘moderate’) a day earlier, according to the Central Pollution Control Board. While AQI of Greater Noida was 78 against 87 on Friday, Ghaziabad recorded an AQI at 103 against 128 (both under ‘moderate’ category) a day earlier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noidarains-likely-in-next-two-days-to-bring-mercury-down-101622307332216.html
29-05-2021||Noida||Nearly 500 prisoners released to decongest Luksar jail||Noida: Nearly 500 inmates have been released from Luksar jail on interim bail following the Supreme Court guidelines to avoid the transmission of Covid-19 in the prisons. From Monday onwards, even juveniles will start getting bail and will be released from the observation homes. During the first wave of the pandemic last year, the Supreme Court had ordered that all prisons and observation homes release the inmates in order to avoid the spread of infection in close quarters. During the second wave, the apex court issued a similar order for prisons. The release of inmates from Luksar jail started on May 5 and till Saturday afternoon, 496 prisoners have been released on interim bail. Of these, 469 are undertrials and 27 convicted.“Any new prisoner is first tested and placed in the temporary jail adjacent to the main block for 14 days. Another test is conducted before they are put in the main prison,” said jail superintendent Bhim Sen Mukund.Currently, there are 2,520 prisoners lodged in Luksar jail, of which 104 inmates are putting up in the temporary jail. “We have medical staff round the clock to monitor the health of the prisoners. A doctor has been stationed at the temporary block also. We have nine oxygen concentrators, several cylinders, medicines, etc. to handle emergencies. An L-1 facility is also operating here to take care of infected inmates. In fact, all the inmates who are 45 and above have been vaccinated while the rest are in the process of getting the jab,” said Mukund. Ever since the pandemic began, the inmates have made 60,374 masks in the prison, of which 3,780 masks have been manufactured this year. While most of these were distributed among prisoners and staff, some were also given to institutions outside.Similar release orders are awaited for the observation homes as well.“We have now received the necessary orders and the juveniles will be released on interim bail from Monday onwards. Orders have also come for the staff vaccination,” said Aneet Bhagel, member, Juvenile Justice Board, Gautam Budh Nagar.The observation home currently has 130 juveniles, in addition to 15 full-time staff members.No Covid cases have been reported from among the inmates of the observation home or the staff members. Since April this year, 103 inmates have tested positive for Covid-19. Currently, seven asymptomatic patients are under isolation in the jail’s L-1 facility while the remaining infected prisoners have recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/nearly-500-prisoners-released-to-decongest-luksar-jail-101622307212184.html
29-05-2021||Noida||Covid-19: Officials resolve to make Noida India's first fully-vaccinated district||Top officers of Uttar Pradesh's Gautam Buddh Nagar on Friday resolved to make it India's first fully-vaccinated district against coronavirus, according to officials.A clarion call towards the resolution was given by District Magistrate Suhas L Y during a virtual meeting with top health and administration officials of the district with Police Commissioner Alok Singh also in attendance, they said."DM Suhas L Y called on all officials to get totally committed toward ensuring the objective of getting Gautam Buddh Nagar fully vaccinated against Covid-19," District Information Officer Rakesh Chauhan said in a statement to the press.Currently, Gautam Buddh Nagar is second after state capital Lucknow in Uttar Pradesh in terms of vaccination but is first in terms of population ratio inoculated, according to the statement.Gautam Buddh Nagar has an estimated population of 21 lakh of which around 15 lakh to 16 lakh people are to be vaccinated. As on Friday, 5.71 lakh people in the district have been vaccinated, which is around 30 per cent of the total targeted population for vaccination, it added.The press statement did not share any timeline for the objective and PTI's phone call to the district magistrate remained unanswered till the time this story was filed.The district, adjoining Delhi in western Uttar Pradesh, has so far recorded 439 deaths and has 1,930 active cases of Covid-19, according to official figures updated till Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/covid19-officials-resolve-to-make-noida-india-s-first-fully-vaccinated-district-101622268813285.html
