30-05-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad: 25% of all Covid-19 cases reported in May||Ghaziabad: Both April and May have become the months with the heaviest caseload since the pandemic first hit the district in March last year, with the health department data showing that while the cases reported in April accounted for 23% of all the cases, May accounted for nearly 25% of cases. According to the records of the district health department, the data indicates that April this year recorded 12,859 positive cases, while the month of May saw 14077 fresh cases. Upto May 30 this year, the district recorded a total of 55,010 cases so far.“The cases started to rise considerably from the middle of April, and there were occasions when the daily new case count crossed 1,000. However, the strategy of aggressive tracing, testing and treatment paid off and we were able to control the spike within a month. The daily cases nowadays have fallen below 200,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, Ghaziabad district magistrate.The spike has been the highest since March last year when first Covid-19 cases started to come in. Earlier, the highest cases recorded in a month were in September last year when the city observed its peak and the district saw 5,915 new cases.“The first wave which started March last year peaked gradually till about September, and then went on a gradual decline. This year, the second wave spiked considerably and also declined at a fast pace. But all this happened within one month, starting from April-mid to May-mid. So, April and May have higher cases which come in at a very fast pace,” said Dr VB Jindal, former president of Indian Medical Association, Ghaziabad chapter.“The complications in patients this year were more due to severity of infection and hospitals admitted L2 and L3 category patients. Last year, most patients had mild symptoms and were admitted to L1 category hospitals,” Dr Jindal added. The L1, L2 and L3 category hospitals were created in UP under the government’s three-tier Covid healthcare infrastructure. While L1 category hospitals admitted patients with mild symptoms, patients having moderate symptoms were admitted to L2 category hospitals. The L3 category hospitals admitted patients having severe symptoms. As of now, fresh case counts have slowed down and the sample positivity rate is also on a decline. The district registered its peak positivity rate on May 6 when the positivity rate was 19.3% while it declined to a monthly minimum level of 9.09% on May 27 and further declined to 8.66% on May 28 and 7.85% on May 30, as per district health department data.The same was 2.8% as on April 15, which further peaked to 8.84% on April 30.“With a decline in positivity, our discharge rate is also increasing. It is about 96% at present and registered a decline when cases started to rise in April. It is an encouraging trend that more patients are recovering,” the DM added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-25-of-all-covid-19-cases-reported-in-may-101622398663018.html
30-05-2021||Noida||GB Nagar launches crackdown on spurious liquor, smuggling of alcohol; 30 held||Noida: The Gautam Budh Nagar excise department, with the help of the district police, has launched a special drive to check for spurious liquor and to monitor illicit supply of alcohol in the district, officials said on Sunday. Over 30 bootleggers have been arrested in the district during the weekend, police said.The district excise department’s action comes after the Aligarh hooch tragedy in which more than 30 people have died last week allegedly after consuming adulterated liquor. “In light of the Aligarh incident, teams from the excise, police and administration are conducting inspections at shops to check the current stock and verify the barcodes. The teams were active on Saturday and Sunday, and so far we have not found any issues of adulteration in the current stock,” said RB Singh, district excise officer.Singh said that the department will run the drive till June 12 and conduct the regular checks at the 524 liquor shops in the district. “We also plan to take public feedback specially in rural belts about the local liquor supply. Movement of history sheeters and excise defaulters will also be monitored,” he said.Meanwhile, the district police nabbed at least 30 bootleggers over the weekend for allegedly smuggling liquor bottles into the district.Police said that most of these arrests were from the Greater Noida zone (areas under Jewar and Dadri police jurisdictions), followed by the Noida area (sectors 39 and 20 police jurisdictions). Most of these cases involve smuggling of alcohol from states like Haryana, police said, adding that several cartons of liquor have been seized so far. “There are orders to ensure that illicit liquor is not in circulation in the district. Our teams are working constantly to monitor the situation,” said Rajesh S, deputy commissioner of police, zone 1.Police also said that manufacturing of spurious liquor in the district is non-existent but smuggling is still an issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/gbnagar-launches-crackdown-on-spurious-liquor-smuggling-of-alcohol-30-held-101622397401824.html
30-05-2021||Noida||Illegal party raided in Noida, 15 booked for violating Covid norms||Fifteen people were booked for violating Covid-19 norms and holding a party in a Sector 93 high-rise on Saturday night.Police said they were informed of the party by the occupants of a neighbouring apartment.“The tenant, M B Malik (32), was celebrating his birthday. There were 15 people, including a foreign national,” said additional deputy commissioner of police, zone 2, Ankur Aggarwal.“We found several empty and a few filled hard.liquor bottles. There was marijuana and a yet unidentified narcotic there as well which is being examined. Action is being taken against all offenders,” said DCP, Harish Chander.All were booked under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Epidemic Diseases Act, which are bailable offences, while the organisers were also booked under the Excise, NDPS and Noise Pollution Acts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/illegal-party-raided-in-noida-15-booked-for-violating-covid-norms-101622397281836.html
30-05-2021||Noida||Noida to expedite completion of civic and infrastructure projects||NOIDA: The Noida authority said that it has decided to expedite work on all projects, disrupted due to the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. The authority’s chief executive officer (CEO) Ritu Maheshwari earlier in the week held a review of projects in multiple departments, including horticulture, property, electrical and water, via videoconferencing and directed staff and private agencies to expedite the work. The CEO also reviewed progress of projects online with departmental heads. Currently there are 172 projects, including repair of drains, footpaths and roads, across Noida. Apart from these, at least 177 new maintenance projects of civic services are proposed. The CEO directed that the maintenance work should be done on priority, before the monsoon season begins.“The staff has been directed to repair all potholes in city roads within 24 hours. If the potholes are repaired in 24 hours then concerned work circle will face disciplinary action,” said Maheshwari.The authority is resurfacing the Noida-Greater Noida Expressway, and building underpasses between sectors 154 and 150, a 5.5-km elevated road at Dadri road, an underpass at Parthala and an indoor stadium in Sector 21, among other works.“The progress on these projects is unsatisfactory and the work should be expedited so that these can be delivered at earliest,” said Maheshwari.She also directed the horticulture department to expedite the work on its projects. She asked the work on Dog Park in Sector 137 and ‘Waste to Wonder Park’ to be fast-tracked.“If the private company engaged to prepare terms and conditions for these two parks will not ready the report on terms in next 3 days then the action should be initiated against the firm,” said Maheshwari.The CEO directed the computer department to address work applications of residents online without further delay. She directed to address all complaints filed in the last one month on priority basis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-to-expedite-completion-of-civic-and-infrastructure-projects-101622396261772.html
30-05-2021||Noida||Curfew to stay in Noida, Ghaziabad for now||Even as the Uttar Pradesh government ordered the lifting of the partial corona curfew across the state, it said that it will continue in 20 districts, including Ghaziabad and Gautam Budh Nagar. The curfew will be lifted if active Covid-19 cases fell below 600, it added.The other districts that will continue to be under the partial curfew are Lucknow, Meerut, Varanasi, Ghaziabad, GB Nagar, Bulandshahr, Baghpat and Moradabad, among others. The curfew had been imposed since April 30. “In these 20 districts there will be no relaxation as of now. If the number of daily active cases falls below 600 on the basis of report by district health department, then relaxations mentioned in the order will automatically apply. In case any district has relaxed, but the number of active cases move more than 600, then the relaxations will cease to exist for it,” the order issued by UP chief secretary on Sunday, read. Under the relaxations, shops/markets can open from 7am to 7pm outside the containment zones but will have to close on Saturdays and Sundays to sanitise their areas; restaurants can only home deliver food; religious places will open up but can allow only a maximum of five people at a time, while banks, insurance companies, among others, have also been allowed to open up while maintaining all precautions.According to state control room figures of May 30, Ghaziabad had 1,760 active cases while GB Nagar had 1,184 active cases. An officer from the Ghaziabad health department estimates that it will take another 15-20 days for the active cases to fall below 600. “During the past one month we had been having more than 1,000 daily cases and now these have declined to about 50-150. This may increase or decrease on some days,” said the officer who wished not to be identified. Ghaziabad district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said, “We will meet with traders, bus operators, auto unions beside RWAs and will seek their active participation to ensure that protocols are adhered to. If the cases rise, everyone will get affected as partial curfew will come into effect. So, we have now directed for strict surveillance, regular monitoring of patients in hospitals so that they recover fast and even strict adherence to containment protocols.”GB Nagar did not make any estimates and said it would depend on recoveries. “It is generally seen that patients in home isolation (mild cases) recover within 10 days while there are other patients (moderate and severe cases) who take longer recover. So, it depends on recoveries,” said Suhas LY, district magistrate of GB Nagar. Experts said that bringing down the number of active cases will be a major challenge. “People have to ensure social distancing and wearing of masks besides maintaining personal hygiene. Enforcement against offenders must continue strictly otherwise there is every possibility that cases may rise. Further, testing should also be maintained at the same level and tracing should be expedited,” said Dr VB Jindal, former president of Indian Medical Association (Ghaziabad).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/curfew-to-stay-in-noida-ghaziabad-for-now-101622396202760.html
30-05-2021||Noida||Rains likely in next two days, to bring mercury down||The combined effect of cyclone Yaas and western disturbances may bring light rains in Noida and adjoining areas over the next two days, weather experts at the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Saturday.According to IMD, while easterly winds already brought the mercury down by two notches in the past 24 hours, there are high chances of rains between May 31 and June 2 that would drop the mercury by three to four degrees Celsius (°C).“As a combined effect of cyclone Yaas and back-to-back western disturbances, the region (NCR) may see rain, light to moderate, between May 31 and June 2. The temperature will be around 36°C. There had been no incidents of heat wave in Delhi-NCR, including Noida, so far and June 15 onwards marks the beginning of pre-monsoon rainfall. So there are no chances of heat waves so far. As an effect of Yaas, strong easterly winds will keep bringing the strong moist winds in the region that will also keep the air quality under check,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of regional weather forecasting centre, IMD.The average wind speed in the region for the past three days has been 25 kmph, IMD said.According to IMD, Noida saw maximum and minimum temperatures of 37.4°C and 27.4°C on Saturday against 39.6 and 26.1°C a day earlier. At Safdarjung, considered average for NCR, the maximum and minimum temperatures were recorded at 37.5°C and 26.6°C, respectively.Meanwhile, the air quality index (AQI) of Noida on Saturday was 92 or ‘satisfactory’ against 118 (‘moderate’) a day earlier, according to the Central Pollution Control Board. While AQI of Greater Noida was 78 against 87 on Friday, Ghaziabad recorded an AQI at 103 against 128 (both under ‘moderate’ category) a day earlier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/rains-likely-in-next-two-days-to-bring-mercury-down-101622350663358.html
30-05-2021||Noida||Nearly 500 prisoners released to decongest Luksar jail||Nearly 500 inmates have been released from Luksar jail on interim bail following the Supreme Court guidelines to avoid the transmission of Covid-19 in the prisons. From Monday onwards, even juveniles will start getting bail and will be released from the observation homes.During the first wave of the pandemic last year, the Supreme Court had ordered that all prisons and observation homes release the inmates in order to avoid the spread of infection in close quarters. During the second wave, the apex court issued a similar order for prisons.The release of inmates from Luksar jail started on May 5 and till Saturday afternoon, 496 prisoners have been released on interim bail. Of these, 469 are undertrials and 27 convicted.“Any new prisoner is first tested and placed in the temporary jail adjacent to the main block for 14 days. Another test is conducted before they are put in the main prison,” said jail superintendent Bhim Sen Mukund.Currently, there are 2,520 prisoners lodged in Luksar jail, of which 104 inmates are putting up in the temporary jail.“We have medical staff round the clock to monitor the health of the prisoners. A doctor has been stationed at the temporary block also. We have nine oxygen concentrators, several cylinders, medicines, etc. to handle emergencies. An L-1 facility is also operating here to take care of infected inmates. In fact, all the inmates who are 45 and above have been vaccinated while the rest are in the process of getting the jab,” said Mukund.Ever since the pandemic began, the inmates have made 60,374 masks in the prison, of which 3,780 masks have been manufactured this year. While most of these were distributed among prisoners and staff, some were also given to institutions outside.Similar release orders are awaited for the observation homes as well.“We have now received the necessary orders and the juveniles will be released on interim bail from Monday onwards. Orders have also come for the staff vaccination,” said Aneet Bhagel, member, Juvenile Justice Board, Gautam Budh Nagar.The observation home currently has 130 juveniles, in addition to 15 full-time staff members.No Covid cases have been reported from among the inmates of the observation home or the staff members.Since April this year, 103 inmates have tested positive for Covid-19. Currently, seven asymptomatic patients are under isolation in the jail’s L-1 facility while the remaining infected prisoners have recovered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/nearly-500-prisoners-released-to-decongest-luksar-jail-101622350897414.html
30-05-2021||Noida||Vaccination picks up pace in Noida in last 15 days||In the past 15 days, the number of vaccinations administered per day at Gautam Budh Nagar’s Covid vaccination centres (CVCs) for all age groups has almost doubled, with around 7,000 doses being administered daily up to May 14, to over 13,000 from around Thursday onwards.The total number of vaccinations carried out at government CVCs on May 10 was 4,621, with 2,603 inoculated in the 18-45 category. This is in contrast with the figures of May 29, when the total vaccinations carried out in the district were 14,600, including 11,296 in the 18-45 category.By May 14, the average per day vaccinations by the Gautam Budh Nagar health department averaged around 6,000-7000 but since then to around Wednesday, the vaccinations went above 10,000 per day.If vaccinations administered at private centres are taken into account as well then on May 28, a total of 19,206 doses were given in the district, out of which 14,180 were at government centres, according to official data.Narendra Bhooshan, the nodal officer for Covid-19 in GB Nagar, said, “The vaccinations being carried out at workplaces vaccination centres (WVCs) and camps being held by private hospitals in residential areas is helping increase the inoculation numbers”.Moreover, ever since May 10 when vaccinations for the 18-44 category were started in the district, the health department has added 62 new government CVCs. On May 10, the district had 21 centres while on May 29, this figure had increased to 83.The district has an estimated population of 21 lakh, of which around 15 lakh to 16 lakh people are to be vaccinated. As of Saturday, 5,95,122 people in the district had been vaccinated, which is around 30% of the total targeted population for vaccinations, said district magistrate Suhas LY.“I believe the government centres as well as private ones can easily vaccinate 25,000 people in a day, combined. If this goes on at the same pace, within two-three months we shall be able to cover all of the 18+ population in the district with at least the first dose,” said Suhas.Workplace vaccinations kick off in NoidaMultinational firm UFlex kicked off a vaccination drive Saturday at its headquarters in Sector 62. The drive is set to cover 6,000 employees of the firm above the age of 18 working in facilities across Noida, including shop-floor workers and contract staff. Doses will be provided free-of-cost to employees, for which UFlex has tied up with Kailash Hospital in the city. The camps will be set up inside the company premises and plants across different locations. The company plans to complete the vaccination drive by June 5.Earlier, digital and business solutions firm Tech Mahindra Ltd had also rolled-out a vaccination drive for its associates and dependent family members above the age of 18 years at its office campuses at NSEZ in Sector 82. The company is covering the cost of vaccination and has partnered with Fortis Healthcare for the same.Meanwhile, Felix Hospital in Sector 137 launched a 24x7 vaccination drive-through facility at its hospital on Saturday. Here, beneficiaries will need to book their slot on Cowin for ₹900.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/vaccination-picks-up-pace-in-noida-in-last-15-days-101622350656029.html
