31-05-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad administration moots voluntary ‘village solidarity scheme’||Ghaziabad: The Ghaziabad district magistrate on Monday launched an initiative titled the “village solidarity scheme” in which the winning candidate (gram pradhans), and the runner up in the recently concluded panchayat elections, will work in coordination for the all-round development of their respective villages. “The idea behind the initiative is to bring them together as both have their respective support base in villages and if they work together through a platform, it will be highly beneficial for the development of their village. We have initiated this scheme while keeping in mind development activities in villages,” district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey, said. Panchayat polls are closely contested elections and different groups contest it bitterly, while the results can also lead to differences between them. In this context, the district magistrate held a virtual meeting on May 28 with the newly elected gram pradhans and the runners up. Another meeting was held on Monday at the district headquarters. “There were discussions, and several decisions were taken amicably. It was decided that both persons will give a sankalp patra (pledge letter) that they will work together, and the village will be called Gram Sadbhawna village. The winning gram pradhan will be named as kushal pradhan (welfare chief) while the runner up will be called vikas salahakar (development consultant) who will be called in for all meetings of the gram sabhas/panchayats and their suggestions will be noted down,” Pandey said in a press statement Monday.The statement also detailed certain incentives.“The block officials will provide both these persons visiting cards. The pradhans will get priority in case they wish to meet officials. The gram sadbhawna will have a different coloured letterhead and their applications will be expedited by departments. The application on the letterhead will be valid only when both the persons present their signatures jointly,” the statement said further. It added that the initiative will be voluntary in nature and will be implemented if both the winning and the runner-up candidates agree to it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-administration-moots-voluntary-village-solidarity-scheme-101622484470648.html
31-05-2021||Noida||Noida forest dept bats for scientific transplantation of trees, writes to authority||Noida: After several grown trees were felled in the city, the divisional forest department of Gautam Budh Nagar has written to the Noida authority asking them not to chop trees and rather transplant them.Pointing out that the pollution levels of the city are usually high, the forest department said that the authority must use scientific methods to transplant the trees so that they may live. A number of trees have been allowed to be chopped down for different ongoing development projects in the city.“Use scientific methods to transplant the trees to save them from dying. Also, try to transplant as many trees as possible, even those that are permitted to be felled, so that the maximum number of trees could be saved,” read the letter sent Monday to the authority‘s horticulture department.The letter came in light of opposition from environmentalists after a number of grown neem trees were felled at Parthala Chowk for development of a flyover on Sunday. According to the forest department, while 217 trees have been permitted to be felled for developmental works in the district, at least 1,816 trees are proposed to be shifted or transplanted elsewhere. Officials said that while the authority does transplant trees, they don’t do it scientifically or through an expert agency, due to which several trees die.“They usually dig the trees through JCB machines, which cut the roots and reduce the survival chances of a tree, while scientific methods consider a lot of aspects. There are machines that can do the job successfully. We have thus written to them to ensure proper transplantation,” said Pramod Kumar Srivastava, divisional forest officer, Gautam Budh Nagar.Meanwhile, the Noida authority said that it will look into the matter, adding that the felling of trees at Parthala Chowk had been stopped.“We have stopped the felling of trees at Parthala Chowk and will soon talk to the director of the horticulture department regarding scientific transplantation. So far this year, we have not transplanted any tree,” said Mahendra Prakash, deputy director of the horticulture department of the authority.According to a city-based environmentalist, hundreds of trees are felled every year and those transplanted are not done properly.“There are three major projects going on in the city. Hundreds of trees have either been felled or will be axed to complete these projects. Our question is – why do we chop fully grown trees that take years to contribute to the green cover, when we can transplant all of them. Besides, most of the trees that the authority transplants do not survive. A few years back, we had asked the authority via an RTI if they have a separate budget to transplant trees through an expert agency, and they didn’t,” said Vikrant Tongad, city based environmentalist.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-forest-dept-bats-for-scientific-transplantation-of-trees-writes-to-authority-101622484470050.html
31-05-2021||Noida||Over 4K health-care workers still to get their first dose in GB Nagar||NOIDA: As many as 4,469 health-care workers (HCWs) out of the 29,630 in Gautam Budh Nagar, who were registered for the inaugural phase of vaccination against Covid-19 in January this year, are yet to take their first jab. Not only that, among 25,161 HCWs who had taken their first shot, as many as 9,648 have yet not turned up for their second dose. District chief medical officer, Dr Deepak Ohri, said that despite repeated appeals, many of the HCWs didn’t turn up for their vaccination.“The HCWs include doctors, nurses, paramedics, technical staff and sanitary workers. As per the dough out survey (the left our survey in vaccination records) conducted by the district health department, it has been found that the maximum number of absentees among them are from the nursing category. Either they have shifted elsewhere or have left their vocation. However, we have started intimating all hospitals in the district to provide the updated details of these absentees. Most of them were associated with private hospitals, medical colleges and nursing training schools,” he said.He further said that only 15,513 HCWs have taken both doses so far – about 52% of 29,630 of total registered HCWs. “The rate of taking the first dose was much higher as over 85% HCWs had taken their maiden jab. This dilly-dallying approach has really irked the health department officials,” he said.Explaining the reason behind this low percentage of vaccination among HCWs, Ajit Kumar, the director (public relations) of Sharda hospital, said that most HCWs were sceptical about the accuracy and efficacy of the vaccines during the initial phases of the inoculation drive. “Even doctors and paramedics were not very enthusiastic about getting the jabs. But, their minds seem changed after the higher mortality rate seen during the second wave of Covid. Now the problem is that the government is not giving free vaccines to private hospitals and the HCWs of our hospital do not want to venture out in public places to get the jabs. As a result, they are taking paid vaccines in hospitals now,” he said.District immunisation officer, Dr Neeraj Tyagi, said that so far 5,78,969 people have been administered doses in the district. “While 4,79,296 have taken the first shot, 99,673 have received both the doses,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/over-4k-health-care-workers-still-to-get-their-first-dose-in-gb-nagar-101622484469443.html
31-05-2021||Noida||Man booked for cheating Noida resident on pretext of oxygen cylinder||Noida: Police on Sunday registered a case against a man for allegedly duping a Noida resident of ₹31,800 on the pretext of providing a oxygen cylinder. The suspect is a resident of Delhi, the police said.The complainant, Devendra Kumar Mehra (51), said that a few days ago he, his wife, son and daughter had tested positive for Covid-19 and they were in home isolation.“My 26-year-old son’s oxygen saturation level was falling and we needed an oxygen cylinder. We got the suspect’s contact number through a friend, who had picked up the number from a WhatsApp group. He had identified himself as a gas supplier from Delhi and he assured us to provide the oxygen cylinder in one hour,” said Mehra, resident of a high-rise in Sector 128. The suspect demanded ₹16,500 online payment for a 47-litre cylinder. “We transferred the money to the given bank account. However, soon the suspect said that the 47-litre cylinder was out of stock and he would provide a 80-litre cylinder. The suspect again demanded ₹15,300,” he said.According to police, Mehra transferred the money to the suspect’s account but he did not deliver the cylinder. Later, the suspect switched off his mobile phone and went incommunicado, police said. Mehra then filed a complaint with the cyber cell which investigated the matter and directed the Expressway police to register a case.Yatendra Kumar, station house officer, Expressway police station, said that a case has been registered against the suspect under Section 420 (cheating) of IPC and Section 63 of the IT Act. “Primary investigation shows the suspect cheated the Noida resident on the pretext of an oxygen cylinder. It appears he has cheated some more people. We have traced the suspect’s bank account and soon we will arrest him,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/man-booked-for-cheating-noida-resident-on-pretext-of-oxygen-cylinder-101622484410970.html
31-05-2021||Noida||GB Nagar admin starts vaccination camps in rural areas||Noida: In order to ensure easy access to Covid-19 vaccination in rural areas of the district, the Gautam Budh Nagar administration on Monday held inoculation camps in six villages for people aged 45 years and above. The beneficiaries were registered on Co-WIN app and vaccinated on the spot, officials said.The drive was held in Khatana and Dabara in Dadri sub-division, Miyana and Mirzapur in Dankaur sub-division and Thora and Bhaipur in Jewar sub-division. A total of 572 people were vaccinated across the villages on the first day, the officials said.“The camp has been held so that none of the people in 45+ age group are left without the first dose of vaccine. We found that many people in this age group had already got their first dose. Registration of people living in rural areas is already underway at the common service centres in the villages,” said Prasun Dwivedi, sub-divisional magistrate (Sadar), GB Nagar.The officials said more such vaccination camps will be organised in rural areas in the coming days to prevent the spread of coronavirus infection.“Going forward, we will continue to hold the vaccination camps in more villages where people can be registered on the spot and get vaccinated there itself. This initiative has been taken because some people’s representatives informed us that the rural population finds it difficult to book slots online,” said Dr Neeraj Tyagi, district immunisation officer, GB Nagar.Dhirendra Singh, member of legislative assembly from Jewar constituency, said that many residents of the villages had complained that they could not find any empty slots on Co-WIN and hence were unable to get registered.“These complaints were from the younger people, while most of the older population does not even have a smartphone. So, an initiative to bring vaccination camps to the rural population is much needed,” said Singh.On Monday, a total of 10,418 people were vaccinated in the district, of which 7,303 were from 18-45 age group, the officials said.Vaccination camp in GhaziabadMeanwhile, in neighbouring Ghaziabad district, a vaccination camp will be organised at the ART (Anti Retroviral Therapy) Centre in the MMG District Hospital for people living with HIV, transgenders and intravenous drug users aged above 45 years from June 2 to 5.“We have identified 690 people above the age of 45 years who will be covered under the vaccination campaign. Of these, 598 are persons living with HIV, 52 are intravenous drug users and 40 are transgenders. Some NGOs helped us collate the data,” said Dr Sheel Varma, medical officer at ART centre, MMG District Hospital, Ghaziabad. The vaccination drive will be carried out from 10am to 2pm and Covishield will be administered there.“These groups of people usually live in secrecy and experience stigma because of which they may get left out for vaccination. Hence, with the help of the district administration and the NGOs working with these groups, the vaccination drive will help break the chain of Covid-19 infection,” said Varma.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/gb-nagar-admin-starts-vaccination-camps-in-rural-areas-101622484409566.html
31-05-2021||Noida||Online service to provide medical care to Covid patients||Gautam Budh Nagar residents can now get medical aid for Covid and non-Covid patients at their door step through a mobile app called “Upchar”.Jewar MLA Dhirendra Singh, the Yamuna Expressway industrial development authority, Gautam Budh Nagar district administration and police on Monday launched the application developed by a Nashik-based private company. This application will enable patients to seek medical advice from doctors, including from the Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS).“We have also roped in volunteers who will help patients get connected to the best doctors, get prescription and easy treatment in need particularly rural areas,” said Jewar MLA Dhirendra Singh.The application has sections such as Covid or non-Covid, Asthma, malaria, skin problem, paediatric and orthopaedic among others.“The app will guide a patient to an expert for quick medical aid and generate prescription,” said Suhas LY district magistrate. This application will be connected with integrated control room set up by the administration to attend to needy patients.GIMS director Dr Rakesh Gupta said that a panel of doctors will monitor the operations of the app.“If need be, doctors will call a patient in need, connect via video call and provide the best advice,” said Gupta.“The virtual service of providing medical aid during pandemic is need of the hour. We all will work together to make this a success and take the best medical care to a person, who cannot use app or mobile. The need is to work as a team and deliver better healthcare services,” said Alok Singh commissioner of police GB Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/online-service-to-provide-medical-care-to-covid-patients-101622484410170.html
31-05-2021||Noida||Second sero survey directed for Ghaziabad, GB Nagar||The Uttar Pradesh government has issued guidelines for the second sero survey that will be conducted from June 4 in all districts, including Ghaziabad and Gautam Budh Nagar. The survey will check for the prevalence of antibodies against Covid-19 in the blood samples of a given population size. The previous survey in September/October last year found the presence of antibodies in 22% of about 16,000 people across 11 districts, including Ghaziabad. District-wise details is unavailable. This time the government has directed extra teams in four districts, including Ghaziabad, for the survey that will include urban slums. About 1,440 people from 31 randomly selected areas in each district will be tested. Twenty people who had the antibodies in the last year survey will also be included. Experts said they expect a higher prevalence of antibodies this time round as the second wave ravaged the district to a far greater extent than the first wave.“The survey should be conducted on the basis of proportional population in urban, rural, semi-urban, slums and other areas. The results of the upcoming survey are expected to be on higher side due to the second wave... antibodies generally last for several months (in patients who recovered from Covid-19). So, this survey will tell what proportion of population will not get affected in case any likely third wave arrives soon,” said Dr Lalit Kant, former epidemiology and communicable diseases head at the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR). “This time, it is estimated that the rate this time will be higher in range of about 45-50% and June is the ideal time to conduct the survey as majority people have recovered recently,” said Dr VB Jindal, former president of Indian Medical Association (Ghaziabad). GB Nagar district administration said they have begun preparations for the upcoming survey. “Last year the survey was conducted by the Centre through an institute,” said Suhas LY, district magistrate of GB Nagar. The officials in the Ghaziabad health department familiar with the development said Ghaziabad had a seroprevalence of nearly 25-26%. “This time with higher number of cases we expect that the results will show more rate of prevalence of antibodies. We are making preparations for the survey,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/second-sero-survey-directed-for-ghaziabad-gb-nagar-101622484350072.html
31-05-2021||Noida||GB Nagar admin to start vaccination for parents of children below 12 years from June 1||Following directions from the Uttar Pradesh government, the Gautam Budh Nagar district administration will begin vaccinating parents of children below 12 years of age against Covid-19 from June 1.The vaccinations will be conducted at two special centres - at JP International School at Greater Noida Omega 1 with 100 daily doses and the other at the primary health centre (PHC) at Bisrakh with 300 doses a day. Both centres will administer Covishield vaccine.“Parents need to register and book their slots on the Co-WIN portal to get vaccinated at these Covid Vaccination Centres (CVCs). They have been named ‘Abhibhavak Special No 1’ and ’Abhibhavak Special No 2’ on the portal. Those who book their slots at these centres will have to show proof that at least one of their children is below 12 years of age at the site, else they won’t be administered the vaccine,” said Dr Neeraj Tyagi, district immunisation officer.The slots for the two centres began Monday. By evening, all slots were booked at both centres and did not show any slots for the next few days. The age grouping on the site also mentioned it was open for all adults under 45 years of age. Tyagi said they would see the response and allot more slots in the coming days.An order from the UP additional chief secretary to all district’s dated May 30 elaborated on the rules for the special vaccination centres.At the time of vaccination, the guardian should show the proof of the age of their child (Aadhaar/birth certificate / school ID card) and will be verified at the gate.According to Dr (Brig) Rakesh Gupta, director of the Government Institute of Medical Sciences in Greater Noida, in the event of a third wave, children may also get the virus and it was imperative to protect those closest to them till a vaccination for them was approved.“In the second wave, we saw that the children got the virus from their parents. If we can ensure the parents are vaccinated, we can reduce the chance of them catching the virus, ” said Dr Gupta who is also the former head of paediatrics at the Armed Forces Combined Hospital in Pune.Dr NK Sharma, president of the Indian Medical Association (Noida) said, “Though no guidelines have come from the government for vaccination of children, I believe a decision on the same should be expedited. If we really want to safeguard our children before the third wave hits us, we should soon look for ways to vaccinate children as well.”Bharat Biotech is expected to conduct trials of its vaccine Covaxin among 12- to 15-year-olds. World over, only the Pfizer vaccine has been approved for use in children in the US, Canada and Europe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/gb-nagar-admin-to-start-vaccination-for-parents-of-children-below-12-years-from-june-1-101622484349476.html
31-05-2021||Noida||From June 15, walk-in shots at Noida’s pvt hospitals||NOIDA: In a bid to boost Covid immunisation figures in Gautam Budh Nagar, the district administration has allowed the private hospitals to start paid walk-in vaccination facilities from June 15, officials said. The GB Nagar district magistrate, Suhas LY, said that eligible persons would not be required to register themselves on the Co-WIN app to get vaccinated at a private facility. “Until April 30, the state government was supplying vaccine doses to private hospitals. However, after the Centre allowed the vaccination for people in the 18-45 years age group, private hospitals were instructed to make their own arrangements and procure vaccines directly from manufacturers,” he said. At present, the vaccination is being done at 64 government-run centres, while only two-three private hospitals are providing vaccine, the officials said.The DM said that in a recent meeting with representatives of private hospitals in the district, they were asked to help boost the vaccination drive by holding paid camps. “Vaccinations are mostly being carried out at government centres. However, some private hospitals have partnered with RWAs to set up camps in several residential sectors of the city,” he said. Dr Deepak Ohri, chief medical officer (CMO) of GB Nagar, said that the district administration’s decision will reduce the pressure on public health-care facilities. “With the paid vaccination facilities at the private hospitals, the rush at different government-run booths will come down,” he said. Ohri said that two private hospitals in the district have begun the vaccination from Saturday (May 29), but till June 15, people will have to register themselves on Co-WIN app, even for inoculation at the private facilities. Meanwhile, several private hospitals in the district have started preparations for the vaccination drive beginning at their places from Tuesday. Ajit Kumar, director (public relations) of Sharda hospital, said that the hospital has already purchased 12,000 doses of Covishield from the Serum Institute of India. “As many as 15 teams, comprising doctors, nurses and paramedics, have been made for two vaccination centres located on the campus. Each centre will have two to three booths and the target set for the first week is 10,000 vaccinations. Our target group will be different residential societies. The rate for a vaccine dose will be ₹850,” he said. Dr Yatharth Tyagi, director of Yatharth hospital, said that the vaccination is already taking place in his hospital since last week. “At present, we are unable to provide Covaxin jabs to a large number of people. But, since our consignments have already been shipped, we hope to cater to at least 1,000 persons per day from next week,” he said. On the other hand, a spokesperson of Fortis hospital in Noida said that the hospital will provide vaccines as per the choice of the people. “The price for one dose of Covishield is ₹850, while it’ll be ₹1,250 for Covaxin. Our daily target will depend on the availability of vaccines. However, we aim to vaccinate around 1,000 people on Sundays,” he said. Dr NK Sharma, president of Noida chapter of Indian Medical Association, said that the government’s decision to allow paid walk-in vaccination at private hospitals “will provide a vaccination cover to maximum number of people in the district”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/from-june-15-walk-in-shots-at-noida-s-pvt-hospitals-101622484289399.html
31-05-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad: Urns left unattended at Hindon crematorium, volunteers step in||The Hindon Cremation Ground in Ghaziabad had been the site of many cremations over the last month as Covid-19 ravaged the city and neighbouring areas. But now it is seeing another tragedy: urns carrying ashes of Covid victims lay unattended at the site and dumping of bodies.“We had 48 urns unattended and 18 of these were Covid-related deaths. The other 30 were of unclaimed/unidentified bodies that the police gave us,” said Manish Pandit, the president of Shri Dharmik Ramchandra Sitadevi Harnandi Sewa Sansthan (SDRSHSS) that cremates bodies at the ground. The unattended urns were of cremations from mid-April till the last week of May. “We waited for their families. We generally ask them to take the ashes within a day or two. But no one turned up for weeks. So, we collected all the set of ashes and performed their last rites as per desired rituals at Garhmukteshwar.”“During the past one week, we even had people dumping bodies at night before fleeing. Two of the six bodies we got this way were in body bags, the same we see with Covid victims. We cremated the bodies and also performed the immersion ritual,” said Pandit.He said that they had around 350 unclaimed urns since last year and about 60-70 of these were related to Covid-19.“Last year too, we performed the last rituals the same way. Members of Khalsa Help International accompanied us to Garhmukteshwar then too,” Pandit added.Gurpreet Singh, founder member from Khalsa Help International, said that they will go again this year too.“We got to know that families don’t turn up to collect ashes due to the pandemic. So, we went to Garhmukteshwar along with members of SDRSHSS and helped in the immersion. We are again planning to do the same activity this year as well,” Singh said.The seers said that immersion of ashes is a vital ritual and ideally be taken up within three days of cremation.“It is maintained that our body is made up of five elements. So, the water part should go to water. So, the immersion is taken up at rivers or water bodies,” said Mahant Narayan Giri, the mahant of ancient Dudheshwar Nath Temple in Ghaziabad,As per the state control room figures of May 30, the second wave of the ongoing pandemic resulted in 334 deaths this year. Till December 31, 2020, the toll was 102.The officials of the municipal corporation said that immersion of pending ashes is done in cases where families don’t turn up.“So, there is no option, and the associations take ashes and perform immersion activity as per Hindu rituals,” said Pramod Kumar, additional municipal commissioner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-urns-left-unattended-at-hindon-crematorium-volunteers-step-in-101622398721994.html
