28-09-2021||Today's||AUKUS won’t derail either Quad or Western unity||The recent announcement of the AUKUS security pact between the United States (US), the United Kingdom (UK), and Australia, and ensuing developments, have led to speculation over the future of the Indo-Pacific. Many see the West as poorly coordinated at best and badly divided at worst.
28-09-2021||Today's||India’s dilemma on cryptocurrencies||When it comes to cryptocurrencies, governments of the world have arrived at one of three conclusions. One, cryptocurrency is an inevitability. It cannot be banned or walled out through any meaningfully enforceable mechanism. Thus, regulation is required to offer investors a degree of protection, ensure compliance with norms, and provide clarity with regard to taxation. This seems to be the most common view, with countries such as the United States, the United Kingdom, and almost all countries in the European Union choosing to adopt some form of regulation. Two, it represents a means to bypass sanctions or traditional geopolitical structures. Countries subscribing to this view have adopted bitcoin as legal tender (such as Cuba and El Salvador). Iran too saw the potential of cryptocurrency in helping circumvent sanctions, and encouraged “mining”, provided the resulting tokens are sold to the central bank (though, due to excessive electricity consumption, a four-month moratorium was imposed on mining in May). Three, it is too volatile to be regulated effectively. Countries that subscribe to this view believe that private cryptocurrencies represent a threat to the integrity of the financial system, are too vulnerable to manipulation to be regulated as an asset and can enable illicit transactions in a myriad ways. Countries that ban the trading, holding, and mining of cryptocurrency include China, Bolivia, Nepal, North Macedonia, and Indonesia.So where does India fall on this spectrum? From a reading of the 2019 interministerial report, the view seems to be one of caution. This is consistent with preceding Reserve Bank of India (RBI) circulars and press releases discouraging cryptocurrency trade, and warning investors of associated risks. Last week, in an interview with this newspaper, finance minister (FM) Nirmala Sitharaman reiterated the need to be cautious when it came to cryptocurrency and to “think it through”. She cited protests on the streets of El Salvador, following the adoption of bitcoin as legal tender, in support of her point. So, it remains unclear which conclusion the government is likely to reach.An outright ban would be difficult to sustain unless it is accompanied by a coordinated global effort to wipe out cryptocurrencies. While the government has exclusive rights in the legislative domain, the same is subject to the limits of legality, necessity, and proportionality imposed by the Constitution. In March 2020, the Supreme Court, in Internet and Mobile Association of India v Reserve Bank of India struck down an RBI notification imposing a blanket ban on all regulated entities from dealing or facilitating services for virtual currencies. While striking down the notification, the court found it to be violative of the Constitution and against the doctrine of proportionality — there was no evidence of the adverse impact argued to support the drastic measures advocated by RBI. In August, the Madras High Court struck down legislation that introduced a blanket ban on online betting games. The court, in unambiguous terms, held that any legislation which introduces a wide-ranging ban can be struck down if it is found to be violating the least intrusive test or the doctrine of proportionality. Here it must be noted that the FM, in July, told Parliament that the government has not collected any data on, inter alia, narcotic drug trafficking and money laundering being committed through cryptocurrency exchanges. Thus, it would be difficult to advance the moral hazard argument in a vacuum. Alternatively, if the government wishes to regulate, then it must necessarily bring more transparency to the ongoing pre-legislative process. When the Lok Sabha bulletin for expected bills was published on January 29, 2021, it included the Cryptocurrency and Regulation of Official Digital Currency Bill, 2021. The bill sought to “prohibit all private cryptocurrencies in India” while making exceptions for the use of the underlying technology. Given that the bill wasn’t introduced, and the subsequent statements of the FM about the need to “think it through”, it can be inferred that the government is reviewing its position from that of a simple ban to something more nuanced. In this regard three suggestions are important. One, if the government wishes to protect existing legitimate investors (currently estimated at anywhere between 7-10 million Indians), then it must publish a draft bill by way of forward guidance, and invite comments under the Pre-Legislative Consultation Policy of 2014 (currently more honoured in the breach than in the observance). Two, the government must impose duties on cryptocurrency exchanges to educate investors, so they may be able to distinguish between genuine private cryptocurrencies from ersatz ones. Three, evolve an approach on crypto mining with states. Electricity falls under the Concurrent List and taxes on consumption and sale of electricity fall under the State List. Thus, no decision can be reached without proactive engagement with state governments.Currently, the trade of cryptocurrencies exists in a state of legal blankness. With any innovation, there is always a risk that it may bring unintended harm. Governments with vision seek to create a path that illuminates the best aspects of innovation while minimising its misuse. Governments that are protectionist seek to ban such innovations. But for either choice to be legitimate, it must be made in consultation with people and in the full light of day.Muhammad Ali Khan is the additional advocate general for Chhattisgarh in the Supreme Court. Omar Hoda is an advocateThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/indias-dilemma-on-cryptocurrencies-101632837904395.html
28-09-2021||Today's||From Tibetan resistance to international tensions, China’s obstacles in TAR||The Chinese Communist Party (CCP) has stepped up activities in the Tibet Autonomous Region (TAR) to achieve President Xi Jinping’s directive of “one people, one culture, one language and one country”. Visits in July-August by Xi and Wang Yang, chairman of the Chinese People’s Consultative Conference, underscored this priority. However, the contours of major obstacles that loom ahead are already visible. A stream of senior CCP cadre visits has followed. Their visits add emphasis to the major projects approved by the 14th five-year plan and long-range objectives — 2030. The visits also indicate that the 20th Party Congress will endorse Xi for another term next year.Senior cadres visiting TAR include Chongqing Party secretary and politburo member Chen Min’er, politburo member and Guangdong Party secretary Li Xi, whose delegation included Guangdong governor Ma Xingrui, who is a CCP central committee (CC) member; Cai Qi, party secretary of Beijing; and Yu Wenxia, vice-minister of the CCP CC propaganda department.Most recently, Chen Wenqing, minister for national security, arrived in Lhasa with a high-level delegation and convened a meeting attended by TAR party secretary Wu Yingjie, commander of the Tibet military region lieutenant-general Wang Kai, and others. Among the topics discussed were maintaining unity, “diluting the influence of religion”, and eliminating the 14th Dalai Lama’s “negative influence” among the masses. A major focus of the CCP’s efforts to “blend” Han and Tibetan cultures, and dilute the religious beliefs of Tibetans, is selecting the 14th Dalai Lama’s reincarnation. China wants to avoid a situation where there are two Dalai Lamas, with the one recognised by Tibetans residing outside communist China. Gyaltsen Norbu, appointed by the Chinese as a Panchen Lama, is not accepted by the Tibetans even after 26 years.China’s efforts, however, are facing resistance. The adverse international environment provoked by Xi’s aggressive policies is fuelling opposition to China. The Dalai Lama’s message, thanking those who wished him on his 86th birthday on July 6, would have been a dampener for the communist regime. He stated that he will live till the age of 113. The message would have given hope to Tibetans everywhere. Chinese nervousness about the situation in Tibet has been especially noticeable during this period of enhanced military tension between India and China. Central and TAR propaganda, public security, and united front teams have been visiting border counties opposite Arunachal Pradesh. All stressed the need for loyalty to the party and strengthening border defence. Meanwhile, confrontation is growing between the United States (US) and China. The US navy has increased activities in the South China Sea and Taiwan Strait, as have British, French, and German warships. After Quad, India is conducting the Malabar exercises. Japan’s latest defence White Paper explicitly stated, “The stability of the situation around Taiwan is important... for the stability of the international community.” With its withdrawal from Afghanistan, the US will now focus its resources on dealing with China — its primary threat. Globally, the anti-China sentiment is high because of Covid-19. The US Congress passed the Tibet Policy Act, 2020, which specifically opposes any effort by Chinese authorities to identify, select, and install Tibetan Buddhist religious leaders, including any future Dalai Lama, in a manner inconsistent with the Tibetan Buddhist faith and community. India’s location is critical in the context of Tibet. Indian public opinion, traditionally partial to the Tibetan cause, is now negative on China due to China’s military build-up and intrusions in Ladakh since 2020. Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s birthday greetings to the Dalai Lama were publicised this year as were US secretary of state Antony Blinken’s meetings in Delhi with Ngodup Dongchung, head of the Dalai Lama’s bureau and Geshe Dorji Damdul, director of the Tibet House. Indian public opinion has also begun to question India’s recognition of Tibet as part of China.Jayadeva Ranade is former additional secretary, Cabinet secretariat, Government of India, and is president, Centre for China Analysis and StrategyThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/from-tibetan-resistance-to-international-tensions-china-s-obstacles-in-tar-101632837899125.html
