29-09-2021||Today's||Scientifically Speaking | The Mozart Effect. Can music treat brain disorders?||Music makes us emotional by evoking memories of earlier times in our lives. It can make us recall childhood moments and special people, rousing profound feelings deep inside us. Can music improve brain function and treat diseases too?
29-09-2021||Today's||From the periphery to the centre, India’s maritime moment has arrived||India’s decision to hold an open debate on maritime security, during its Presidency of the United Nations Security Council (UNSC) for the month of August 2021, was significant and historic in many ways. Delhi has traditionally limited its engagements in the maritime domain, with little political interest in maritime security and collaborations. The UNSC debate on maritime security underscores the way maritime security has gone from the periphery to the center of Delhi’s foreign policy priorities.
29-09-2021||Today's||Bringing the states back in||The recently released Situation Assessment of Agricultural Households and Land and Livestock Holdings of Households in Rural India, 2019 (SAS) serves as an important reminder of the diverse and regionally specific nature of agriculture in India. Agricultural incomes and the interlinkages between farm and non-farm activity vary significantly by state. Thus, pathways for “doubling farmers income” or enhancing productivity through market competition have to be determined in consonance with state-specific realities. This is the primary reason why agriculture is a state subject and why the Centre’s farm laws are fundamentally flawed.The average total monthly income of an agricultural household in 2018-19 (June-July) was ₹10,829 (including pensions and remittances). Of this, farm income (crop production and farming of animals) contributed less than 50% to an average household’s total income. But hidden in this pan-India statistic, as a Centre For Policy Research analysis reveals, are significant state-level variations. Farm income dependence is about a third of total incomes in states such as Kerala (22%), West Bengal (28%), and Odisha (35%) and as high as over 60% in Punjab (61%) and Madhya Pradesh (66%). A closer look at sources of income presents a puzzle. Average monthly farm income in Bihar was ₹4,478 compared with ₹1,929 in Jharkhand. However, average earnings from wages were about the same. Farm incomes account for 57% of total income in Bihar while their contribution to total income is a mere 37% in Jharkhand. Total income of an average agricultural household in Jharkhand is far lower than Bihar. There are bigger surprises — the average monthly income from agriculture in Kerala is ₹4,688 (not significantly more than Bihar). Farmers in Karnataka earn nearly 26% more than farmers in Maharashtra.The degree of dependency on farm income is, of course, linked to the size of operational landholdings. At an all-India level, it is only when land size exceeds one hectare that farm income to total agricultural income reaches the threshold of 50%. But again, there are state-specific variations. In Kerala, nearly 87% of agricultural households were in possession of between .01 and 1 hectare of land. Agriculture accounted for a mere 19% of total monthly income. Interestingly, even households with larger landholdings in Kerala (2-4 hectares) only drew 36% of their household income from farming; that figure is 47% for Tamil Nadu, 78%for Bihar, and 80% for MP. In Bihar, 86% households possessed between .01 and 1 hectare of land. Agriculture accounted for 45% of total income. In Madhya Pradesh, a far lower 52% of households have less than 1 hectare of land and agriculture accounted for 32% of their income, but for the average agricultural household in MP, income from farming constitutes a high 66% of all income. Finally, on the vexed question of Agricultural Produce Market Committees (APMCs) and markets, SAS data confirms a reality that both previous surveys and field research have established. At an all-India level, far from being a monopoly, APMC mandis are relatively marginal sites of sales and that the vast majority of farmers sell their agricultural produce in local market sites outside state-regulated mandis. But, here again, there are important regional and crop-specific variations in marketing conditions, including in the presence of government procurement systems across states.Just this cursory glance at headline figures highlights the complexity of the policy challenge. Agricultural productivity, market access, non-farm linkages, other employment opportunities and social protection all need attention, but the policy priorities and strategies for increasing both farm and non-farm rural incomes will all have to be state-specific.Writing in these pages days after Parliament passed the farm laws, we argued that the laws are flawed because they adopted a reform approach that seeks to centralise policy in what is an extremely diverse and context/region-specific sector. The relationship between agricultural practices, markets and State institutions is so varied across states that the average farm income in Bihar is nearly as high as that of Kerala but for very different reasons.In order to respond, we need to make two crucial shifts in our national debates. First, recognise that there is no getting around states; we have to shed the disenchantment with State failure and yet place accountability firmly on state governments. Second, we need to mobilise to invest in State capacity at the state government level. This means building up planning capacities, mechanisms for cross-state learning (a role that NITI Aayog can play very effectively), and investing in local governments. Both better coordination and decentralisation are critical to building region-specific farm and non-farm linkages and growing local economies. No amount of central legislation can resolve these critical issues. We now need to shift the terms of the policy debate and ask what will it take for states to invest in serious reforms and address the critical challenge of agriculture.Yamini Aiyar is president and chief executive, CPRMekhala Krishnamurthy is a senior fellow and director of the State Capacity initiative, CPR and associate professor, Ashoka UniversityThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/bringing-the-states-back-in-101632912863028.html
29-09-2021||Today's||Recognising the role of health in India’s social and economic growth||As India begins marking its 75th year of Independence, it is an appropriate time to take stock of the priority we have accorded to our biggest resource — human capital. Today, India has the largest population of young people; an enviable resource that can move India on to a stronger economic path. Research has highlighted the links between building human capital (through nutrition, health, and education) and growth. And yet, data on nutrition, health, and education suggests that the value of this resource has not been recognised. When we focus on health, there has been progress, but India remains well below peer countries — and where it needs to be — in terms of the well being of citizens. This stems from multiple reasons.One, it is not clear if national and political incentives to improve health have been clear to leaders. There are two aspects to this. The first is linked to the limited attention to the links between health and human capital, and growth promotion — a case that positions health not merely as a welfare issue, but as an influencer of India’s growth. The second is the limited attention to the impact of health care on poverty. Health-related expenditures are estimated to push 3.5% of the population below the poverty line; with those already below the poverty line pushed only deeper. Anirudh Krishna’s research across four continents found health-related expenses to be the prime reason for households descending into poverty and that millions of households live “one illness away” from poverty. Political incentives could also be a factor of “credit”, and in India’s federal system, a lack of clarity in “credit” from the improved health care services may further diffuse political incentives. Reforming the health care system may also be viewed as too long-term an agenda, and, therefore, not conducive to immediate political gains. Additionally, the pathways at different governance and administrative levels are often not evident, constraining political interest from relevant leaders. Two, the absence of health as an electoral demand dilutes its political salience. Data from multiple CSDS Lokniti polls has highlighted that health figures low among voter priorities. The middle-class has exited from the use of public services, and increasingly, the poor are moving in the same direction.It is, therefore, not surprising that the health sector has one of the lowest public investments at 1.3% of the Gross Domestic Product, with a disproportionate use of private services, and 64% of health care expenditure being out of pocket at the point of service. However, leaders have sought political legitimacy through attention to targeted sectors and the initiation of reforms. Regime shifts in several countries such as Turkey, Indonesia, and Brazil saw leaders prioritising health to establish credibility with the voter base and reaping electoral benefits. Well implemented reforms fuelled citizen expectations, leading to demand, and creating the space for further reform. India has not witnessed too many examples of this.State capacity is a central variable in the cycle of well-implemented reforms, tangible benefits, a social compact between the government and its citizens, and electoral gains. The absence of this confidence in capacity will likely lead to a clientelist model of delivering services, rather than a systems approach.What is the path that India should take? One, focus on a system that responds to the capacity of the State and other stakeholders in the immediate-term, while building on such capacity in the longer-term. Better responsiveness to the needs of citizens can drive trust between citizens and the State. And do this while highlighting the role of health in a nation’s journey, and building citizens’ understanding of the primacy of health and its impact on their economic status. A lot more needs to be done to identify paths to reform, through a combination of public and private provisions, with the State as a regulator. This can offer a coherent response to constraints and political benefits at the national, state and sub-state levels.Sandhya Venkateswaran is member, Lancet Citizens Commission on Reimagining India’s Health System and Centre for Social and Economic Progress.The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/recognising-the-role-of-health-in-india-s-social-and-economic-growth-101632910160811.html
