30-09-2021||Today's||The Congress leadership made a mistake with Sidhu. The party is paying the price||It looked a perfect match in the lead-up to the 2017 assembly elections — the well-regarded Captain Amarinder Singh as the chief ministerial face, the much-liked Navjot Sidhu as his successor under training. But the partnership didn’t reach fruition, the understudy bunking the mentor’s tutorials midway through graduation. Rather than getting himself groomed, Sidhu chose to be a dropout. Having quit as a minister in 2019, he remained an outlier till the curtains were drawn on the Captain’s rule.Arguably, Singh’s fall was on Sidhu’s call.Why then the continuing resort to the politics of resignation, of coercion and arm-twisting? The answer lies perhaps in the cricketer-turned-politico’s variously dissected persona — insubordinate, obstinate and high strung to the extent of being disruptive. Given to marching to his own drumbeat, he is unwilling or is unable to stay in single file behind another person, be it Singh or his successor as chief minister (CM), Charanjit Singh Channi.The hangover of his brush with the entertainment industry is manifest in the way Sidhu walks or talks. No surprise that he went for a theatrical abdication of responsibility rather than being the Congress’s sheet-anchor as its freshly-minted state president. His treatment of Channi over eminently resolvable differences was an encore of his many confrontations with the ousted CM, who is now flirting with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Singh has since clarified that while he will leave the Congress, he won’t join the BJP. Desperate to be the Congress’s “high command” in Punjab, Sidhu ironically has brought upon himself the fate the Captain willed for him. He has irretrievably hurt his image and that of the party by failing to appreciate that the incumbent CM, unlike his predecessor who was rendered vulnerable by age and anti-incumbency, is the toast of the country as Punjab’s first Scheduled Caste leader to hold the post.Temperamentally understated, Channi has a way with people. In venturing to make an example of him, Sidhu cut his nose to spite his face. The altruistic, puritanical veneer he sports barely hides his vaulting ambition. This is despite the fact that he has raised certain legitimate issues, especially on bureaucratic appointments. Sidhu claims these can undercut the Congress’s 2017 promise to bring to book the Akali Dal leadership in cases of sacrilege under the Parkash Singh Badal regime.On the face of it, these placements, as also the induction of a minister who had come clean in a judicial probe into graft, were negotiable behind closed doors. But Sidhu, the showman, chose rebellion over discussion, loath as he is to the prospects of Channi growing out his shadow.What should worry the habituated rebel in Sidhu is his growing alienation from even the members of the faction he led to fight Singh. Having first scuttled the prospects of Sukhjinder Randhawa becoming CM, he also has problems with him getting the home portfolio as deputy CM. His turf war in Amritsar with OP Soni, the other deputy CM, is too well known to be underscored. So flawed has been the central leadership’s search for the new Punjab CM that the party has more aspirants for the office today than it once had in Madhya Pradesh. Besides Sidhu, there is former state party chief Sunil Jakhar and Randhawa, who got the maximum votes in the legislature party meet.It will be a classic dog’s breakfast if the Congress fails to quickly put its house in order. The party’s only hope in the upcoming polls is the disrepair that afflicts its rivals. The Aam Aadmi Party is struggling for quality human resources; the Akali Dal stares at a crisis of credibility. As for the BJP, its base has shrunk in the face of the farmers’ agitation.The conundrum could worsen, however, if Singh can cut a substantial deal with the saffron party on the three farm laws. Short of that, he may be a mere mantlepiece in the close or distant proximity of the saffron party; a veritable Punjab edition of Karnataka’s SM Krishna who walked into the sunset on switching sides at a ripe old age. Be that as it may, the Sidhu pantomime in the Congress must stop. Or else its initiative of giving the state its first Dalit CM will come a cropper.vinodsharma@hindustantimes.comThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-congress-leadership-made-a-mistake-with-sidhu-the-party-is-paying-the-price-101633017690716.html
30-09-2021||Today's||From 1984 to 2020, Delhi’s response||In February 2020, northeast Delhi saw the Capital’s deadliest riots in decades. The riots killed 53 and injured hundreds. In the aftermath, some residents erected barricades or gates outside their lanes. Others left their homes for relief camps in Delhi, or even returned to their ancestral villages across India.The following week, I was in west Delhi interviewing Sikhs who had survived the city’s last cataclysmic wave of communal violence in 1984. The survivors I interviewed also described a vast range of different strategies they had adopted to try and survive. Some hid in darkened flats for days, or cut their hair and beards. Some wielded kirpans to defend their lanes or colonies, while others left Delhi for good.During political violence around the world —including decades of communal riots in India— people respond to chaos and danger in many different ways. For everyone who participates in violence, there is someone who has barricaded themselves in a closet. For every family that seeks refuge in another neighbourhood or state, another family tries to adapt to the danger and stay put. In many instances, there are hardly any noticeable differences between the people who choose radically different strategies when they confront danger.Take an example from 1984: Two women in Southwest Delhi faced nearly identical mob violence on the same day, but responded in very different ways. One woman from Palam, saw her father taken from their home and set on fire (probably with phosphorous powder). Another woman, only 3km away in Sagarpur, witnessed a mob take her father, brother, husband, and son from their home and beat them to death. The woman from Palam immediately left and resettled in Punjab. The woman from Sagarpur remained — she continues to live in Delhi.How do we make sense of these choices? In my research, I study the experiences of Indian Sikhs who survived violence in Delhi in 1984 in order to understand their decisions. I draw lessons from their stories to understand the forces that shape people’s responses to violence across different religious groups, different types of violence, and different countries.Even people who are very similar to each other often perceive and interpret a violent situation in different ways. Different perceptions and interpretations, in turn, motivate people to respond differently to threats of violence. Two particular interpretations (or appraisals) are important for understanding people’s behaviour — a person’s appraisal of how much control they have over the outcome of violence, and their appraisal of how predictable the evolution of violent threats will be in the near future.People who assess control and predictability differently tend toward different behaviours to keep themselves safe. People who feel uncertain about the future and believe they have no agency to mitigate threats to their safety (no control) tend to flee from violence. People who feel that they have control, but aren’t confident in their ability to predict the future try to fight back against threats. People who feel the future is more predictable and understandable either try to minimise their exposure to threat by “hiding” or try to engage constructively with the sources of danger, depending on how in control they feel. These interpretations guided the choices of many survivors of the 1984 violence in Delhi. Across interviews with survivors in Delhi as well as many survivors who migrated to northern California, and across an archive of over 500 oral histories of the violence, I find that people’s assessments of control and predictability are strongly connected to the strategies they end up selecting.People facing violence use their assessments of control and predictability to help them make sense of chaos. But in the haze of conflict, not everyone makes sense of chaos in the same way. The women from Palam and Sagarpur, for example, saw their situations differently. The woman from Sagarpur believed she understood how the mobs worked. Before her father died, he described a theory of the violence — mobs were targeting those who were visibly Sikh (mostly men), and were especially brutal toward people who tried to fight back. This set of “rules” made the violence more predictable — though no less traumatic — for the woman from Sagarpur. Her perception of predictability led her to stay put in Delhi, where she still lives. The woman from Palam felt no such sense of predictability. Members of her family were basically tricked — her father was killed by people who had promised him safety. As soon as possible, the woman from Palam left the neighbourhood, and Delhi all together. Even these two similar-seeming women, facing nearly identical violence on the same day, interpreted their circumstances differently, and followed those interpretations to decide what they needed to do to survive.Riots in February 2020 never spilled across the Yamuna, but rumours and fear spread as far west as neighbourhoods such as Dwarka, Janakpuri, and Tilak Nagar. In interviews, people described the scenes of 1984 returning to their minds when they heard rumours that the 2020 riots were coming to west Delhi. Some prepared to correct the “mistakes” they made in 1984 like not having access to weapons. Some cancelled weekend plans and kept their children home, fearful of having a son or daughter stranded across the city during a riot. Others talked about fleeing — what relative could take them in if the violence started? As in 1984, everyone saw something slightly different in the facts they could gather and made different plans accordingly. Violence evokes contrasting responses from even similar people, and every riot changes lives in more ways than one. Aidan Milliff is a PhD candidate at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and a predoctoral fellow, Institute for Security and Conflict Studies at George Washington UniversityThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/from-1984-to-2020-delhi-s-response-101633013071911.html
30-09-2021||Today's||Kishida in Kantei: What can the Indo-Pacific partners expect from Japan?||Fumio Kishida will walk into Kantei as prime minister (PM) on October 4 following a high-voltage political race, marked by murky factional political culture of the ruling Liberal Democratic Party (LDP). Charting his road to power, Kishida positioned himself on the right side of the kingmakers. But that is only half the battle.
