01-04-2021||India|| Congress questions timing of giving Dadasaheb Phalke Award to Rajini||The Congress on Thursday questioned the timing of Dadasaheb Phalke Award to superstar Rajinikanth, saying the government should not do anything that unnecessarily drags celebrities in political controversies. Congress leader Rajeev Shukla said the government should not try to take political advantage out of everything and be wary of such actions. "This award should have been given to him long back, why is it being given this year," he said. "The government should not do anything which unnecessarily drags our celebrities in political controversies. Rajinikanth is a respected film personality. The BJP and the government should be wary of this and it should not try to take political advantage out of everything," Shukla told reporters. He alleged that the government doing anything with elections in view is not proper, but noted that people know everything. "The government should not try to take political gains out of everything it does. If the government has done this with the intention of making political gains and with elections in mind, then this is not appropriate in politics," he said. Rajinikanth is a widely respected film personality and we all respect him, as his career has been very successful. Superstar Rajinikanth will be honoured with the prestigious Dadasaheb Phalke Award, Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar announced on Thursday. The announcement comes days ahead of the April 6 Assembly polls in Tamil Nadu, where the 70-year-old Rajinikanth resides and has a massive following among the people. Dadasaheb Phalke Award, Indian cinema's highest honour for an artiste, for the year 2019, will be presented to Rajinikanth on May 3. Prime Minister Narendra Modi hailed Rajinikanth for his contribution to cinema while congratulating him on the honour.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-236
01-04-2021||India||EC bars DMK’s A. Raja from campaigning for 48 hours||The Election Commission on Thursday banned DMK leader A Raja from campaigning for 48 hours after finding him guilty of violating the model code of conduct by making derogatory remarks against Tamil Nadu Chief Minister K Palaniswami. In its order, the poll panel reprimanded Raja for violation of the model code of conduct, delisted his name from the list of star campaigners of the DMK and debarred him from campaigning for 48 hours "with immediate effect." Assembly polls will be held in Tamil Nadu on April 6 in a single phase for which campaigning would end in the evening of April 4. "The Commission also advises you to be watchful and not to make intemperate, indecent, derogatory, obscene remarks and lower the dignity of women in future during election campaign," the order read. On Wednesday, Raja responded to the EC’s show cause notice by saying that he has been 'falsely accused' of making derogatory comments. The former union telecom minister in his 'interim explanation' said he had not spoken anything 'obscene' or which would lower the dignity of women and motherhood. Also his speech was not violative of the Model Code of Conduct or any other law, he argued. Raja claimed he used 'simile' to trace the political evolution of his party chief M K Stalin and Palaniswami and using such comparison was accepted in Tamil oratory. He compared the two leaders to 'babies' for easy understanding of the common people to refute Palaniswami's allegations that Stalin never worked hard to rise to his present position. "Hence, if the full text is considered by the committee, I am hopeful that it will wipe out the insult and consequent injury inflicted on me." Also, he claimed that Palaniswami quoted him out of context on this matter and he became emotional too at a public meeting here on March 28. Following this, he apologised if his remark had been 'misconstrued' and 'misunderstood' and also had said he had not intended to insult the CM.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-236
01-04-2021||India||Centre decides to keep vaccination operational throughout April||Seeking to exponentially expand the countrywide anti-coronavirus inoculation drive, the Centre has decided to keep all public and private sector Covid-19 Vaccination Centres (CVCs) operational throughout April, including on gazetted holidays. The Centre wrote to all states and union territories on Thursday and asked them to make necessary arrangements for this, the Union Health Ministry said. "This step has been taken after detailed deliberations with the states and UTs on March 31 to optimally utilise all Covid-19 Vaccination Centres across the public and private sectors to ensure rapid increase in the pace and coverage of Covid vaccination. "This decision is in line with the graded and proactive approach employed by the government of India along with the states and UTs for Covid-19 vaccination," the ministry said. The vaccination exercise continues to be regularly reviewed and monitored at the highest level, it highlighted. The government opened up the Covid-19 vaccination drive to include everybody above 45 years of age on April 1 based on a recommendation of the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration (NEGVAC). A countrywide vaccination drive was rolled out on January 16 with healthcare workers (HCWs) getting inoculated first, and vaccination of frontline workers (FLWs) started from February 2. The next phase of Covid-19 vaccination commenced on March 1 to cover people above 60 and those in the age group of 45-59 but with specific comorbid conditions. More than 6.5 crore (6,51,17,896) vaccine doses have been administered through 10,86,241 sessions across the country so far, as per the provisional report till 7 am, according to the ministry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-236
01-04-2021||India||Amit Shah lambasts A. Raja for his comment on women||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Thursday hit out at the DMK for its leader A Raja's alleged vulgar remarks against Tamil Nadu Chief Minister K Palaniswami's mother, saying it showed the party had no regard for women. The "mothers and sisters" of the state should teach a 'lesson' to the DMK in the April 6 Assembly polls, he said. Addressing an election rally at Thirukoyilur, Shah charged the DMK with aiming to romp home in the hustings by 'hook or crook.' Referring to Raja's alleged offensive remarks targeted at Palaniswami, leader of the BJP's ally AIADMK, Shah also slammed the Congress and DMK for corruption and dynasty politics. "I saw the statement by DMK leader A Raja. The kind of statement he made against a deceased woman. I think they (DMK) have no regard for women and want to win this election by hook or crook," he said. "In the past, DMK made such bad remarks against (the late Chief Minister) Jayalalithaa ji. I appeal to the mothers and sisters of Tamil Nadu-- teach a lesson to the anti-women DMK in the polls," the BJP veteran said. The electoral battle was between the NDA which was walking the path of development and the UPA which was into corruption and dynasty politics, he said. Both the parties were not bothered about the people of Tamil Nadu. Congress President Sonia Gandhi was "worried" about her son Rahul and DMK chief MK Stalin was "worried" about his son Udhayanidhi, Shah charged.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-236
01-04-2021||India||Congress questions govt's U-turn on interest rate order||The Congress on Thursday hit out at Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman after she ordered withdrawal of the interest rate slashing order and asked whether the U-turn was an "oversight" or an "election-driven hindsight". Congress leader Rahul Gandhi alleged that the small saving rates would be reduced soon after elections. "There was already a loot on petrol and diesel and soon after the elections end, the small saving rates will be reduced and there will be a loot on the savings of the middle-class. "This government is of jumlas (rhetoric) and the loot of common people," Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi using the hashtag "oversight". Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said, "Really Nirmala Sitharaman 'oversight' in issuing the order to decrease interest rates on GOI schemes or election driven 'hindsight' in withdrawing it?" Party general secretary and chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala hit out at Sitharaman and said she has no right to continue as the finance minister. "Madam FM, Are u running a 'Circus' or a 'Government'," Surjewala asked. "You have no moral right to continue as FM,," he said. "One can imagine the functioning of economy when such duly approved order affecting crores of people can be issued by an 'oversight'. Who is the competent authority referred in order," he said on Twitter. Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram said when inflation is at about 6 per cent and expected to rise, the BJP government is offering interest rates below 6 percent hitting the savers and the middle class below the belt. "The BJP government had decided to launch another assault on the middle class by slashing the interest rates and profiting itself. When caught, the FM is putting forward the lame excuse of 'inadvertent error'," he said on Twitter. "Announcement of interest rates on savings instruments for the next quarter is a regular exercise. There is nothing 'inadvertent' about its release on 31st March," he also said. After the government issued fresh interest rates, Sitharaman in a tweet said, "Interest rates of small savings schemes of GoI shall continue to be at the rates which existed in the last quarter of 2020-2021, ie, rates that prevailed as of March 2021. Orders issued by oversight shall be withdrawn."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-236
01-04-2021||India||India records biggest one day surge in fresh Covid cases since early October||India recorded its highest daily rise in COVID-19 cases this year with 72,330 new infections being reported in a span of 24 hours, taking the total tally of cases to 1,22,21,665, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday. The single-day rise in cases is the highest recorded since October 11, 2020, while the death toll increased to 1,62,927 with 459 daily new fatalities, the highest in around 116 days, the data updated at 8 am showed. Registering a steady increase for the 22nd day in row, the active cases have increased to 5,84,055 comprising 4.78 per cent of the total infections, while the recovery rate has further dropped to 93.89 per cent, the data stated. As many as 74,383 new infections were recorded in a span of 24 hours on October 11, 2020. The active caseload was at its lowest at 1,35,926 on February 12 comprising 1.25 per cent of the total infections. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,14,74,683. The case fatality rate has further has dropped to 1.33 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 24,47,98,621 samples have been tested up to March 31 with 11,25,681 samples being tested on Wednesday. The 459 new fatalities include 227 from Maharashtra, 55 Punjab, 39 from Chhattisgarh, 26 from Karnataka, 19 from Tamil Nadu, 15 from Kerala and 11 each from Delhi and Uttar Pradesh. A total of 1,62,927 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 54,649 from Maharashtra, 12,719 from Tamil Nadu, 12,567 from Karnataka, 11,027 from Delhi, 10,329 from West Bengal, 8,811 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,217 from Andhra Pradesh and 6,868 from Punjab. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-236
01-04-2021||India||Samyukta Kisan Morcha revives Parliament march plan||The Samyukta Kisan Morcha, which is spearheading the nationwide protests against the three farm laws, on Wednesday revived the plan to march to Parliament which it had called off in January-end after the violence during the Republic Day tractor rally. A date is yet to be finalised but the march is tentatively scheduled for the first fortnight of May, depending on when farmers complete their harvest-related work. Haryana-based farmer leader Gurnam Singh Chaduni told a news conference at Singhu that the farmers will converge at Delhi’s borders, from where they will march to Parliament. Chaduni said: “We will not take any vehicles into Delhi to avoid the confusion of the tractor rally when the police had diverted us on to another route and some others had gone their own way, leading to what followed.” Participation would not be restricted to farmers alone, he added. “Workers, the unemployed and women will take part. Our mothers will, in fact, play a big role in this,” the Morcha leader said. It was unclear whether the plan is to march to Parliament and return to Delhi’s borders, where farmers have been protesting for more than four months since November 26, or to picket the legislature. All the details — including how to respond if the police stop or arrest them — will be worked out over the coming weeks, Chaduni said, stressing time and again that the march would be peaceful like their movement has been, but said they would not be stopped by barricading. “We will break through the barricades,” he said. Asked if they would seek permission to conduct the march to Parliament, Chaduni said: “Do you think they will give us permission to march to Parliament?” Prem Singh Bhangu, who heads the Morcha’s legal cell, said since this was not a rally like the one on January 26, there was no issue of permission. “It is our democratic right to go to Parliament,” Bhangu said, adding that farmers were now more vigilant than they were before Republic Day. The march had originally been planned for February 1. The Morcha announced that the birth anniversary of Babasaheb Ambedkar on April 14 would be observed by farmers as Save the Constitution Day. Members of the socially marginalised communities will man the stage at all the protest sites on that day. “The BJP is mounting an assault on democracy and secularism,” Bhangu said, adding that the Modi government had made it clear that it would not tolerate minorities. On that day, the farmers will also demand repeal of laws like sedition, UAPA and those that centralise power in the hands of the Union government. Other programmes being planned include FCI Bachao Divas when farmers will gherao offices of the Food Corporation of India across the country to protest new rules requiring land documents to be furnished for transferring payment for procurement, and another blockade of the KMP Expressway on April 10.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-236
01-04-2021||India||Question in BJP: Victory will be Amit Shah’s, defeat?||Amit Shah is leading the Bengal campaign from the front so he can claim full credit if the BJP wins, sections of BJP leaders feel while wondering whether he would own responsibility in defeat. The Union home minister’s complete control over the BJP’s Bengal campaign gives the impression that he is the de facto party president and undermines incumbent J.P. Nadda’s authority, many in the party feel. “Shah is the chief strategist for Bengal and Assam. If we win Bengal and retain Assam, he will naturally get the credit,” a BJP senior said. “But if we lose, Naddaji alone shouldn’t be made to own responsibility.” Apart from Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the party’s mascot in every election, Shah has been the most visible face of the BJP campaign, particularly in Bengal. Many in the party fear that if the BJP fails to wrest Bengal and loses Assam, Nadda would have to take the rap. But if the party wins Bengal, then — even if it loses Assam —Shah would be projected as the chief architect of the victory. Some others defended Shah saying there would be nothing improper in his claiming credit for a win in Bengal. “Amitbhai has been preparing the ground in Bengal since he was party chief. It was under his leadership that we won 18 Lok Sabha seats from the state,” a BJP source said. However, a senior BJP politician said it was not good for the party that Shah was being allowed to run its affairs instead of focusing on his job as home minister of the country. Sources suggested that just as Modi remained the topmost leader of both party and government, Shah wanted to be number two in both. Even after joining the government in 2019 and stepping down as BJP president in January 2021, he has been leading the party in key electoral battles and taking crucial party decisions. Many in the BJP see this as his way of making sure he succeeds Modi. Last year’s Bihar Assembly polls were an exception: Shah didn’t campaign for a single day. Some BJP sources suggested Shah had deliberately avoided Bihar because of unfavourable reports from the ground. To Shah’s surprise, the NDA won and the BJP emerged as the largest party ahead of senior partner JDU. It prompted Modi to publicly congratulate Nadda. Shah doesn’t want to miss out this time, particularly because he knows the importance of the trophy called Bengal, party insiders said. “Ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, we lost four important states — Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh — under Shah’s leadership,” a BJP leader said. “Later the same year we lost Maharashtra and Jharkhand and barely managed to hold on to Haryana.” “Amitbhai is now looking at Bengal, hoping to make up for all the losses and shine again,” the BJP leader said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-236
01-04-2021||India||DU teachers reject request for feedback on Higher Education Commission of India||Delhi University teachers have largely rejected the varsity authorities’ request for feedback on the proposed Higher Education Commission of India, which will become a single overarching regulator for higher and technical education. The teachers say the one-week deadline that acting vice-chancellor P.C. Joshi gave them to respond is too short. “Any hurried exercise can only be seen as a way to suppress opinion and a manipulation to show consensus at the ground level to the imposed policies, when there is none,” DU Teachers’ Association president Rajib Ray has written to Joshi. The National Education Policy (NEP) provides for the creation of the HECI through an act of Parliament. The education ministry and the University Grants Commission have started consultations on the subject. Joshi had written to the deans, principals and teachers of the university on March 23 asking them to study the concept note on the proposed HECI and send their feedback by March 30. On March 29, the DU Teachers Association wrote back to Joshi seeking a deadline extension. Joshi has not responded yet. Members of the staff association of a DU college said their association had decided not to send any feedback. They have passed a resolution saying implementation of the NEP should be withheld till the widest possible consultations had been held. The teachers believe the NEP will encourage privatisation of higher education, shutting its doors to the poor and the marginalised. Former DU executive council member Abha Dev Habib said the teachers needed time to hold workshops to debate the issues related to the HECI. An email sent to Joshi on Wednesday afternoon seeking his response to the teachers’ concerns remained unanswered till late evening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-237
01-04-2021||India||Survey starts to fill migrant worker black hole||The Centre on Wednesday launched a survey to track the socio-economic conditions of migrant workers and their shifting job preferences, months after facing flak for the lack of official data on these workers that is believed to have worsened their sufferings during the lockdown. The Labour Bureau, an arm of the labour and employment ministry, will undertake the sample survey. A committee chaired by S.P. Mukherjee, professor emeritus with Calcutta University, has designed the methodology. Labour economist Amitabh Kundu, co-chairperson of the committee, said the results would come in six months. “The idea is to collect data about the conditions of migrant workers before the Covid outbreak (and during) the middle period of the pandemic (for a) comparison with the current situation,” Kundu said. “Data will be sought on how they had coped with the Covid crisis, (whether) they could access the entitlements like rations, healthcare, education for their children and anything more (that the government had announced for them as lockdown relief).” After the lockdown was abruptly imposed from March 25 last year, lakhs of suddenly jobless and penniless migrant workers had attempted to walk hundreds of miles home, often without enough food and water. Many died on the way of exhaustion and illness; some got run over by a goods train as they slept on tracks. The Centre had faced severe criticism from Opposition parties and civil society groups in September after it told Parliament it had no data on the migrant workers who had died during the lockdown. A 40-year-old law mandates the registration of migrant workers in their home states as well as the states where they live and work. However, several committees including a parliamentary standing committee have found that the law was never implemented in most states. Researchers believe the lockdown-hit migrants’ trouble in finding food, water and shelter at the places where they worked, which partly forced them to attempt the walkathons, could have been mitigated had the central and state governments possessed data about them. In a reply to Parliament, labour minister Santosh Gangwar had quoted post-lockdown data provided by state governments to say that nearly 1.14 crore migrant workers had returned to their native places during the lockdown. On Wednesday, the Centre also started a survey to collect the primary (direct) job creation numbers from 1.5 lakh companies to understand the employment environment and the pandemic’s impact. “This survey will (track) the employment and unemployment situation and changing sectoral composition of the labour force.... It will provide data parallel to that coming from employment surveys of the NSS (National Sample Survey),” Kundu said. Shyam Sundar, professor of human resource management at XLRI, Xavier School of Management, Jamshedpur, said the working class was still struggling to recover from the job losses and indebtedness suffered during the initial days of the pandemic. He said heavy industries were yet to get back to their pre-Covid level of operations. The employment situation was fluctuating every month, adding to the uncertainty, he added. “The workers are largely confused because of the fluctuations in the job market. Now that many states are imposing night curfew and a partial lockdown, the job sector will be further affected,” Sundar said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-237
01-04-2021||India||Eight hooch deaths in dry Bihar during Holi||At least eight persons died and several others were battling for their lives in hospitals after allegedly consuming spurious liquor in two separate incidents during Holi celebrations in dry Bihar. The state is gearing up to celebrate the fifth anniversary of total prohibition next week and the incidents have put a huge question mark on the success of the ban on liquor, one of the pet projects of chief minister Nitish Kumar. Six persons were reported dead at Gondpur and Kharidi Bigha villages in Nawada district and eight were hospitalised after allegedly consuming hooch on March 29 and 30. The deceased have been identified as Ajay Yadav, Ramdeo Yadav, Dinesh alias Shakti, Shailendra alias Shalo Yadav, Loha Singh, Prabhakar Gupta and Gopal Kumar. The villages come under the Bhadauni panchayat and are close to Nawada town. Aabda Azmi, the mukhiya of the panchayat, said the deaths were due to consuming spurious liquor and alleged that prohibition was being rampantly flouted in the area. “All the deaths have happened due to consuming spurious liquor. It is easily available in the area. Eight persons in serious condition have been taken to different hospitals at Nawada and Patna,” Azmi said. Priyanka Devi, a native of Kharidi Bigha who lost her husband, told reporters: “He died after consuming liquor outside. There is no other reason. He was not ill. Liquor is available in these parts.” Chamar Chaudhary, a native of Kharidi Bigha, has lost his eyesight in the hooch tragedy. He is undergoing treatment at Nawada Sadar Hospital. “I had consumed liquor to celebrate Holi but felt uneasy afterwards. I was taken to hospital. I am fortunate to be alive but have lost my eyesight,” he said. Police and district administration officials rushed to the two villages but refused to talk about the reason behind the deaths. Calls by The Telegraph to Nawada district magistrate Yash Pal Meena and superintendent of police D.S. Savlaram were not answered. Two youths lost their lives and another was hospitalised in serious condition after consuming liquor at Gudhiyari village in Begusarai district on Tuesday night. The deceased have been identified as Rajkumar Sahni and Paremshwar Chaudhary, while Birju Sahni is undergoing treatment in hospital. Begusarai SP Awakash Kumar told this newspaper: “Two persons have died. It is almost certain that they had consumed something due to which they lost their lives, but their family members and doctors have not confirmed the consumption of liquor. We will wait for the post-mortem report before arriving at any conclusion.” The Opposition Rashtriya Janata Dal attacked the Nitish government over the liquor deaths. “More people are dying of poisonous liquor in this state with the so-called prohibition than the entire country where liquor consumption is allowed. What benefit is Bihar deriving from this failed ban on liquor?” the RJD tweeted from its official handle.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-237
01-04-2021||India||Amarnath invite to seers for upcoming pilgrimage||Jammu and Kashmir government-run Shri Amarnath Shrine Board is going all out to invite prominent heads of Hindu religious bodies across the country for participation in this year’s proposed pilgrimage, which could be the first yatra after the 2019 abrogation of Article 370. The board chief executive officer Nitishwar Kumar, who is also principal secretary to Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha, personally took the letters on Tuesday to Haridwar  to invite two prominent religious heads for the upcoming pilgrimage. The 56-day Amarnath Yatra is scheduled to start through the twin routes of Pahalgam and Baltal on June 28. The registration of pilgrims is beginning on Thursday. An official source said the decision to invite top seers across the country has no precedent “for as long as I can remember”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-237
01-04-2021||India||Activists, academics and social workers call to release ailing Stan Swamy||A group of more than 2,500 activists, academics and social workers from India and abroad have issued a public statement demanding the release of ailing Jesuit priest and tribal rights activist Stan Swamy, 84, languishing in a Mumbai jail for over five months in the Bhima Koregaon case. Swamy’s bail plea was rejected by a National Investigation Agency (NIA) special court in Mumbai on March 22. The public statement, whose signatories include people from Jharkhand and other parts of India and also citizens of countries such as the US, the UK, Canada, New Zealand, Australia, Brazil, the UAE and Saudi Arabia, has also demanded that the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act be repealed. “The UAPA charges against Swamy must be dropped. Stan Swamy is a symbol of the plight of thousands of undertrial prisoners who languish in jail for years under fabricated UAPA charges, often aimed at harassing those who stand up for the underprivileged or oppose the government. The conviction rate in UAPA cases is extremely low (2.2 per cent between 2016-19 as mentioned in Parliament), confirming that many of the charges are baseless. Rejection of the bail of an elderly and ailing person, with limited mobility and no history of violence against others, is beyond comprehension,” the joint statement said. Swamy is one of 16 academics, lawyers and activists arrested in the 2018 Elgar Parishad case involving caste violence in which one person died and an alleged plot to assassinate the Prime Minister. Swamy was picked up from near his home in Namkum near Ranchi. Swamy suffers from acute Parkinson’s disease along with several other age-related ailments and had sought bail on the ground that the prosecution had failed to establish his involvement in the case. “We know Stan as an exceptionally gentle, honest and selfless person. We have the highest regard for him and his work. He has spent decades in Jharkhand working for the rights of the Adivasis and underprivileged. It is ironic that while public support for Stan Swamy continues to grow, the court rejected the bail application in the ‘community’s interest’. Adivasis, gram sabhas, civil society, several political leaders and parties, and Jharkhand’s chief minister himself have condemned Stan’s arrest and expressed support and solidarity with him,” the statement said. “The recent Arsenal (Consulting) report, prepared on the basis of electronic evidence collected by the NIA, has exposed how fake documents were planted into the computers of the accused in the Bhima Koregaon case. Stan himself clearly told the NIA that some so-called extracts allegedly taken from his computer were fabricated and that he disowned them. It is disturbing that the court decided to ignore this evidence of fabrication as it rejected the bail application. We appeal for immediate bail for Stan Swamy, repeal of UAPA and a return to the normal where bail is the rule, not the exception,” the statement concluded. Some of the prominent persons to have signed the joint statement are Jean Dreze, Admiral Laxminarayan Ramdas, Aloka Kujur, Alpa Shah, Anand Patwardhan, Anuradha Talwar, Apoorvanand, Aruna Roy and Yogendra Yadav.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-237
01-04-2021||India||One thousand sadhus to join the Naga sect at the Kumbh||One thousand sadhus will join the Naga sect at the Haridwar Kumbh on April 5, attaining the status after a three-year trial period. They will discard their clothes to become one with nature and start carrying a dandi (stick) and kamandal (reliquary). “Over 3,000 sadhus had applied to become Nagas but we have selected 1,000 after watching their behaviour closely for three years,” Sri Mahant Mahesh Puri, international secretary of the Sri Panch Dashnam Juna Akhara, told reporters in Haridwar on Wednesday. Ordinary sadhus can be awarded the Naga status by their akharas (monasteries) only during a Kumbh, an occasion that occurs once in three years. Such anointment is one of the highlights of a Kumbh. Each of the akharas in the country has its own Naga sadhus but only the Juna Akhara is anointing fresh Naga sadhus during this Kumbh, a month-long festival beginning in Haridwar, Uttarakhand, on Thursday. “It’s mandatory to be a member of an akhara for three years before a sadhu qualifies to become a Naga sadhu. The considerations for selection include their health and approach towards their fellow men and women living in the akharas’ ashrams.” Akharas have committees that watch the applicants secretly round the clock. “During the three-year period, they are trained to use batons and swords. Attaining perfection in these arts is necessary because they are protectors of the religion and are considered warriors,” Puri said. The sadhus become “mahapurush” (great men) after three years of training at the akharas. If selected to become Nagas, they take the holy dip in the Ganga and discard their clothes. “A mahamandaleshwar (supreme sadhu) hands them a stick and a kamandal. Certain secret rituals are held through the night below the akhara’s flag. The sadhus are washed with milk and ghee. They again take a bath in the Ganga and become Nagas. These processes will start on April 4,” Puri said. Adi Shankaracharya, the eighth-century philosopher, had founded seven akharas: Mahanirvani, Niranjani, Atal, Avahan, Agni, Ananda and Nirvani. Six other akharas — Nirmal Panchayati, Nirmohi, Digambar, Juna, Udasin Bara Akhara and Udasin Naya Akhara — were formed over the centuries. Several newer akharas have come up in recent years, including a Kinnar (transgender) Akhara. The country has about 4 lakh Naga sadhus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-237
01-04-2021||India||MBBS quota for Odisha government school students||The Odisha government on Wednesday issued a notification for reservation of 15 per cent seats in medical and engineering colleges for government high school students. The decision follows an announcement made earlier by the government and cabinet approval for the reservation of seats. The notification issued by the skill development and technical education department said that as the government high school students are in a disadvantageous position compared to their counterparts in private schools while appearing in entrance examinations like the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) and Joint Entrance Examination (JEE), the state government had constituted a high-powered committee on January 8 under the chairmanship of Justice A.K. Mishra, a retired judge of Orissa High Court, to make necessary recommendations regarding reservation of seats for them in engineering and medical courses in Odisha. Acting on the committee’s recommendations, the government has directed that 15 per cent seats in medical and engineering colleges of the state shall be reserved for students who have passed the Class X examination under the Board of Secondary Education (BSE), Odisha, and also passed the Class XII examination under the Council of Higher Secondary Education (CHSE), from any Odisha government higher secondary school/government junior college. Such reservations shall be horizontal covering all vertical reservations as well as the unreserved group, the notification added. The notification further said government high school includes the aided high schools, higher secondary schools and junior colleges of the state as defined in the Odisha Education Act, 1969. Medical courses in relation to a medical college include MBBS and other courses, while the engineering courses in relation to an engineering college include BTech, BE and BArch, it added. It further said that the eligible students shall also be entitled to compete for the unreserved seats and in case, adequate number of such eligible students are not available for seats so set apart, such unfilled seats shall be filled up by the other students of respective categories.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-237
01-04-2021||India||BJP will be the kingmaker in Kerala: E. Sreedharan||“Metroman” E. Sreedharan is convinced that the BJP will come to power or at least be the kingmaker in Kerala, a month after joining the party and deciding to take the electoral field in Palakkad. It doesn’t matter to the 89-year-old technocract that the BJP is faced with two formidable opponents in the ruling Left Democratic Front and the Congress-led United Democratic Front that holds the Palakkad seat. “I will certainly win and am expecting the BJP to touch at least 40 seats. We may go up to even 75,” Sreedharan tells The Telegraph without batting an eyelid while taking a break from his hectic campaign schedule in Palakkad on Sunday. He adds, scaling down his expectations a tad bit: “I feel the BJP has got a good chance to come to power, or at least be the king maker…. The BJP will decide who will rule Kerala.” For a party that has so far won just one Assembly seat in Kerala, Sreedharan’s ambitious prediction is certain to befuddle even the most optimistic of Sangh parivar supporters. “There is such a massive switchover to the BJP,” he says when asked what makes him so confident that a party that has historically struggled to carve out even a toehold in Kerala will cross the majority mark of 71 in the 140-seat Assembly. That’s not all. “The image of the BJP is different now, particularly after my joining the party,” Sreedharan says, adding that many educated people have flocked to the party “because they find a person like me who has reputation, calibre and stature has joined BJP”. He has certainly climbed down from his earlier position that he will become chief minister if the BJP is elected to power. “That is for the BJP to decide. I have not asked for it. If they want, I will take it,” says the celebrated technocrat whose entry into the BJP has enlivened the contest in the prestigious Palakkad Assembly seat currently held by the Congress. But unlike his party, which has been banking heavily on the dispute over women’s entry into the Sabarimala hill shrine, Sreedharan insists it is not an issue in Palakkad. “Only the media is thinking about it. None of the people I have met during the campaign has raised the Sabarimala issue,” he says. What he lacks in mobility and physical endurance, Sreedharan hopes to make up with his image of being a much-sought-after technocract who has lead teams of engineers to build railway lines and Metro train networks. Clad in a traditional Kerala kasavu mundu — off-white dhoti with gold-threaded borders — and formal shirt, Sreedharan has been making more than a dozen stops each day, attending meetings organised by small groups of residents. “I do only these meetings with groups while my party takes care of house visits,” he says. Pramod says. Sreedharan is pitched in a tough political landscape that has an industrial belt and a high concentration of minorities and backward classes who have been traditional supporters of the Congress and the CPM. The incumbent lawmaker, Shafi Parambil, 38, of the Congress is known to be a dynamic youth leader trying for a third consecutive term as MLA. The CPM’s C.P. Pramod is also pulling out all the stops to regain the seat from UDF. “No doubt he is a good technocract, but we are fighting an election,” Shafi tells this newspaper in between visiting churches on Palm Sunday. “We don’t think this whole support base will shift to the BJP just because he (Sreedharan) has entered the fray,” says Shafi, whose rapport with the general populace is never denied even by his staunchest opponents. “I have been at the forefront, raising various issues in and outside the Assembly and have managed to develop a distinct connect with the people here. I have worked for two consecutive terms and naturally enjoy an edge here,” Shafi says. Even the LDF candidate, Pramod, acknowledges the “rapport” Shafi enjoys with the people. “Yes, he has a certain level of rapport. But that hasn’t translated into performance,” Pramod quips. A lawyer by profession, Pramod doesn’t consider a big hindrance the fact that the Left had finished third in Palakkad in 2016 when N.N. Krishnadas could muster only 38,675 votes, against the BJP’s Shobha Surendran who polled more than 40,076 votes and Shafi who bagged 57,559 votes. “The poor showing in 2016 was just an aberration. The LDF has a very good chance this time,” Pramod says, adding that the fight is between the LDF and the UDF. “Sreedharan is not a serious contender although the media gives him a lot of space. I have great regard for his achievements as a technocract,”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-237
01-04-2021||India||In the shadow of Sabarimala||Konni, a quiet little town tucked away in the eastern hill region of Kerala, has been catapulted as the centrepiece of the Sabarimala puzzle rankling the ruling Left Democratic Front. The five Assembly constituencies in Pathanamthitta district being a significant catchment area for the Opposition Congress and BJP that are leveraging on the Sabarimala women’s entry issue, the LDF that holds all the seats is engaged in a pitched battle to retain these pocket boroughs. With BJP state president K. Surendran once again entering the fray from Konni, where a part of the Sabarimala hill shrine is located, it is a contest that the sleepy town and its electorate had seldom expected. While the BJP leader is also contesting from Manjeshwar in Kasaragod in north Kerala where he lost by 89 votes in the 2016 Assembly polls, he is apparently trying to make a statement in Konni by capitalising yet again on the Sabarimala issue after finishing third in the 2019 bypoll in the constituency. The keenly contested battle brought Congress leader Rahul Gandhi to Konni last Saturday, while Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to hold a rally on April 2. Konni went to the LDF with the CPM winning the October 2019 bypoll necessitated by the resignation of Congress lawmaker Adoor Prakash who had held the seat for 23 years before getting elected to the Lok Sabha that year. Sixteen months after turning the tables on the Congress, K.U. Jenish Kumar of the CPM is trying to retain Konni. But it’s the entry of Surendran that has added to the buzz rarely seen in Konni. Sabarimala has become one of the key electoral issues in Konni where a significant chunk of voters are Hindus, many of whom support the tradition of not allowing women of child-bearing age into the hill shrine just about 70km from the centre of the town. In a September 2018 verdict, the Supreme Court had lifted all age barriers for women’s entry into the Sabarimala temple. While both the Congress and the BJP had initially welcomed the verdict, the two parties quickly changed their stand and launched a massive agitation for the upkeep of the tradition. Saraswathi, who works in a textile shop at Konni, is certain the temple issue is hot once again. “We cannot forget how the communists had tried to push young women activists into our temple,” said the woman in her thirties who is ready to wait until she turns 50 to visit the hill shrine. But there are those like small-scale farmer Anil and his wife, Ambili, who wouldn’t think twice before voting for the LDF. “Sabarimala is not that big an issue. I am more worried about running my kitchen,” Ambili said, alluding to the rising price of cooking gas. As of now the LDF continues to hold the edge in the other four Assembly constituencies of the Pathanamthitta Lok Sabha seat — Thiruvalla, Ranni, Aranmula and Adoor. Determined to recapture its longtime bastion, the Congress has fielded local favourite and Pathanamthitta district panchayat member Robin Peter from Konni. “The people will never forget how the LDF government got police to escort activists to the temple, violating the core of the tradition,” Peter told The Telegraph . The Congress has already brought out a “draft bill” to preserve Sabarimala traditions. “I will go by my party’s promises to the people,” Peter said. Kerala BJP secretary P. Raghunath, who is among those supervising the party’s campaign, told this newspaper: “We are sure of winning this time with the support of the people who want a legal framework for protecting religious traditions at Sabarimala and other temples.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-237
