02-04-2021||India||Priyanka Gandhi self isolates after Robert Vadra tests Covid positive||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Friday self isolated after her husband Robert Vadra tested positive for Covid-19. In a video message, she said she has been exposed to coronavirus and is accordingly self-isolating. She also announced the cancellation of her poll campaign in Assam on Friday, in Tamil Nadu on Saturday and in Kerala on Sunday. Priyanka Gandhi has been campaigning for the Congress and party candidates in the states of Assam, Tamil Nadu and Kerala, though she has not campaigned in West Bengal. "I have been exposed to the coronavirus. Although I have tested negative yesterday, the doctors have advised that I self isolate for a few days," she said in a video message. "Unfortunately, I have to cancel the programme that were scheduled for me for the Assam campaign today and for Tamil Nadu tomorrow and Kerala, day after tomorrow," she also said. "I would like to apologise to everybody for not being able to be there. I wish all the candidates that I was supposed to campaign for the very, very best in the election. I hope all of you do well and the Congress is victorious," she said, while wishing for the party's victory in these elections. In a separate Facebook post, Robert Vadra said he has tested positive after he came in contact with someone who was Covid positive. "Hi friends, unfortunately, I came into contact with someone Covid+ve and have tested positive for Covid although I am asymptomatic so far. As per the Covid guidelines, Priyanka and I are self-isolating although she has tested negative," he said in his post. "Fortunately the kids have not been with us these days and everyone else at home has tested negative too. Hopefully we will all be back to normal life soon," he also said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-234
02-04-2021||India||No plan for lockdown in Delhi yet, says Kejriwal||Delhi is encountering the fourth wave of Covid-19 infection but imposition of a lockdown is not being considered yet, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Friday and urged the Centre to allow states to undertake mass-level vaccination. If there is a need for a lockdown in the future, a decision will be taken after consultation, he said, adding the fourth wave is less serious than the previous ones as there are fewer number of deaths and hospitalisations this time. “For the time being there is no plan to implement a lockdown. Should there be a need in future, we will discuss with the people and make a necessary decision,” he was quoted as saying by NDTV. The chief minister, however, added, "It's a matter of concern since the Covid-19 cases are rising exponentially. But there is no need to panic. The government is monitoring the situation and taking all necessary steps." After a high-level meeting, Kejriwal suggested that the Centre should lift the age bar of 45 years for vaccination to pave the way for mass-level inoculation. If the Centre allowed vaccination at non-healthcare facilities like schools, immunisation would be undertaken on a war footing to check the spread of the virus, he said. Kejriwal also appealed to the people to wear face masks, maintain social distancing and regularly wash hands to prevent the spread of the virus. Delhi recorded 2,790 fresh Covid-19 cases on Thursday, the highest daily count this year while nine more people died due to the coronavirus infection, taking the death toll to 11,036, according to the city health department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-234
02-04-2021||India||India pitches for early disengagement of troops along LAC||India on Friday hoped that China will work with it to ensure disengagement of troops in remaining areas of eastern Ladakh at the earliest, and asserted that de-escalation of tension alone will lead to restoration of peace and tranquility in border areas and provide conditions for progress of bilateral ties. At a media briefing, Spokesperson in the Ministry of External Affairs Arindam Bagchi said the two sides continue to remain in touch through military and diplomatic channels on the issue. He also referred to External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar's comments that a prolongation of the situation is in neither side's interest. "We, therefore, hope that the Chinese side will work with us to ensure that disengagement in the remaining areas is completed at the earliest," he added. This, he said, would allow both sides to consider de-escalation of forces in eastern Ladakh as that alone will lead to the restoration of peace and tranquility and provide conditions for progress of the bilateral relationship. Bagchi also said that there was a consensus that the two sides should now quickly resolve the remaining issues in the region. "The disengagement in the Pangong Lake area was a significant step forward and it has provided a good basis for resolution of other remaining issues along the Line of Actual Control in western sector," he said. Bagchi said the two sides had detailed exchange of views on the remaining issues both at the the senior commanders' meeting and the discussions held under the framework of Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-234
02-04-2021||India||Covid second wave could peak during mid-April, says study||Scientists have predicted using a mathematical model that the ongoing second-wave of COVID-19 pandemic across the country could peak by mid-April, following which the infections may see a steep decline by the end of May. During the first wave of COVID-19 infections across India, the mathematical approach, named SUTRA, predicted that the initial surge of infections in August would peak by September and lower in February 2021. Scientists, including Manindra Agrawal from Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Kanpur, applied the model to predict the trajectory of the current surge in infections and found that the number of daily new infections is likely to peak in mid-April for this ongoing pandemic wave. "For the last several days, we have found that there is a reasonable chance that the cases in India could peak sometime between 15-20 April. It is a sharp slope, but on the way down, it would likely be equally sharp, coming down very fast and by the end of May may see a dramatic reduction," Agrawal told PTI. "There is some uncertainty in predicting the peak value of daily new infections because of the sharp rise. Currently, it is coming to 1 lakh infections per day, but this can go up or down. But the timing remains the same between April 15-20," he added. The scientists predict that in the current wave, the first state to peak could be Punjab in a few days, followed by Maharashtra. However, the IIT Kanpur professor added that the model's prediction of the new peak is sensitive to the daily new infections data. "Even a little bit of change each day causes the peak numbers to change by several thousand numbers. But the location of the peak has remained until mid-April," he added. Independent calculations made by scientists, including Gautam Menon from Ashoka University in Haryana, have also predicted that the peak of the ongoing wave of infections could be between mid-April and mid-May. However, Menon cautioned that such projections of COVID-19 cases should really be trusted only in the short term. "Any excessively precise prediction, of a peak within just a 5-day window, would ignore the many uncertainties associated with the inputs to any such calculation," Menon, who was not involved in the SUTRA modelling, told PTI. Agrawal noted that the model uses three main parameters to predict the course of the pandemic. "The first is called Beta, or contact rate, which measures how many people an infected person infects per day. It is related to the R-naught value, which is the number of people an infected person spreads the virus to over the course of their infection," Agrawal explained. The other two parameters, he explained are 'Reach', which is a measure of exposure level of the population to the pandemic, and 'Epsilon' which is the ratio of detected and undetected cases. "The reason we had to introduce 'Reach' is that unlike earlier pandemics which start at a location and suddenly spread fast across a place, in COVID, the spread of the pandemic has been slower due to the many protective measures in place," Agrawal explained. The mathematician said 'Epsilon' helps factor in the number of asymptomatic infections across the country. "Since the detected cases are quarantined, we assume they no longer contribute to new infections. So a growing number of daily new cases reflect larger undetected infections. By measuring the number of new cases each day, we try to estimate the undetected and asymptomatic infections," Agrawal explained. He added that the model relies on inputs from daily reported new infections, based on which the value of the three main parameters are inferred. "We learn everything from the daily-infections data. The beta value across India has gone up by 50 per cent in March, which indicates that a combination of factors -- people becoming more relaxed, and more infectious variants going around. But precisely what reason this could be is something biologists have to say," the scientist noted. While the model did not previously predict a second-wave in India, he said it could have been due to a change in the parameters sometime between February and March 2021. "So clearly during this time some parameters had changed. So we had to wait for some time to collect new data and see how the parameters had changed, which we now know," Agrawal said. On Friday, India recorded 81,466 new infections in a span of 24 hours -- the highest single-day rise in cases since October 2, 2020 -- taking the COVID-19 tally of cases to 1,23,03,131, according to the Union Health Ministry data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-234
02-04-2021||India||Curfew from 6pm to 6am in Pune for a week to stem Covid surge ||Eateries, bars and restaurants in Pune district of Maharashtra will remain shut for seven days starting April 3 in view of a substantial rise in coronavirus cases of late, a senior official said on Friday. A curfew will be in place across the district from 6 pm to 6 am, and malls, cinema halls and places of religious worship will also be shut during this seven-day period, he said. The administration introduced these "stricter restrictions" in the district, which reported more than 8,000 Covid-19 cases in the past two consecutive days. The decision to impose these curbs was taken during a review meeting chaired by Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar here on Friday. "These new restrictions will be applicable for the next seven days from Saturday. As part of it, there will be a curfew from 6 pm to 6 am. Eateries, bars and restaurants will remain closed, but home delivery of the food will continue," Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao said. "Malls, cinema halls will remain shut for seven days from Saturday. All religious places will also be closed for a week," he said. Except weddings and last rite rituals, all other public gatherings have been banned in the district. For weddings, only 50 people will be allowed and only 20 people can remain present for last rites, he added. He said that essential services have been exempted from 6 pm to 6 am curfew. Buses of the Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Ltd (PMPML), city's public transport system, will remain off roads for the next seven days, Rao said, adding that schools and colleges will remain closed till April 30. "All these decisions were taken in view of the surge in Covid-19 cases in the last few days. The situation is becoming critical. In the last one week, the positivity rate of the district has crossed 32 per cent," Rao said. The situation will be reviewed after seven days when further decision will be taken, he said. According to him, efforts were on to increase the number of beds in hospitals in the district. "Since vaccination is the key to bring down the impact of infection, the speed of giving vaccines will be increased in the coming days," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-234
02-04-2021||India||DMK, Congress leaders keep insulting women, says Modi in TN||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday launched yet another blistering attack on the DMK and Congress, charging that their leaders "keep insulting women", while pointing out that the NDA schemes are aimed at empowering women. Addressing an election rally here seeking votes for NDA candidates including from ally AIADMK for the April 6 Assembly polls, he said late Chief Minister M G Ramachandran's vision for inclusive development and prosperous society "inspires us." Lashing out at the DMK and Congress, Modi said they had no agenda to talk about and alleged that the two parties, facing polls as allies, will not guarantee either safety or dignity for the people while the law and order situation will "suffer" under them. He charged that the DMK tried to make the peace loving Madurai a "mafia den" due to family issues earlier, apparently referring to the then squabble in the party's first family involving brothers MK Stalin and MK Alagiri. Modi said Madurai teaches about empowering 'nari shakti' (women power) and referred to the local deity Meenakshi Amman, and popular names associated with the region like Kannagi, Rani Mangammal and Velu Nachiyar. He also said that many schemes of the NDA including the Ujjwala scheme were aimed at empowering women. "DMK and Congress have not understood this ethos. No wonder their leaders keep insulting women again and again," he said without naming anyone. DMK leader A Raja had earlier courted controversy for making alleged disparaging remarks against Tamil Nadu chief minister K Palaniswami's mother during an election rally, drawing criticism. Taking note of a complaint from the ruling AIADMK, the Election Commission had on Thursday barred Raja from campaigning for 48 hours and also removed him from his party's list of star campaigners for the April 6 Assembly polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-234
02-04-2021||India||India administers highest number of Covid shots in a day||More than 36.7 lakh Covid-19 vaccine doses were administered in the last 24 hours, the highest single-day coverage till now, the Union Health ministry said on Friday. Of the 36,71,242 vaccine doses, 33,65,597 beneficiaries were vaccinated across 51,215 sessions for the first dose and 3,05,645 beneficiaries received the second dose of vaccine, the Health ministry said in a statement. The ministry said this is the highest single-day vaccine coverage till now. Cumulatively, more than 6.87 crore (6,87,89,138) vaccine doses have been administered through 11,37,456 sessions, as per the provisional report till 7 am on Friday. These include 83,06,269 healthcare workers (1st dose), 52,84,564 HCWs (2nd dose), 93,53,021 frontline workers (1st dose) and 40,97,634 FLWs (2nd Dose), 97,83,615(1st Dose) and 39,401 (2nd dose) beneficiaries aged more than 45 years with specific co-morbidities and 3,17,05,893 (1st Dose) and 2,18,741 (2nd dose) beneficiaries aged more than 60 years, it said. Eight states account for 59.58 per cent of the cumulative doses given so far. These eight states are Maharashtra, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh and Kerala. The ministry further said that Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Punjab, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Delhi and Uttar Pradesh reported a steep rise in daily new cases. India's total active caseload has reached 6,14,696. It now comprises 5 per cent of the country's total Positive Cases. "A net incline of 30,641 cases recorded from the total active caseload in the last 24 hours," the ministry said. Five states, namely Maharashtra, Karnataka, Chhattisgarh, Kerala and Punjab cumulatively account for 77.91 per cent of the total active cases in the country. "Maharashtra alone accounts for nearly 60 per cent (59.84 per cent) of the total active caseload of the country," it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-234
02-04-2021||India||Three militants killed in J&K's Pulwama||Three militants, including two who were involved in an attack on a BJP leader's house here, were killed in an encounter with security forces on Friday in Jammu and Kashmir's Pulwama district, police said. The encounter took place early in the morning after security forces launched a cordon and search operation in Ghat Mohalla in the district's Kakapora area, a police official said. During searches in the area in south Kashmir, the militants fired on the security forces, who retaliated, and an encounter ensued, he said. Three militants were killed, the official said. Inspector General of Police (IGP), Kashmir, Vijay Kumar, said that two of the three slain militants were involved in Thursday's attack on BJP leader Anwar Ahmad's residence in Nowgam area of the city, in which a policeman, Rameez Raja, was killed. The two were part of a group of four militants who had attacked Anwar Ahmed's residence on Thursday, officials said, adding that the other two are at large. Kumar said the attack in Nowgam was carried out jointly by four militants of the Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) and the Al-Badr outfits, and an SLR rifle snatched from policeman Raja on Thursday was recovered from the encounter site at Ghat Mohalla. Addressing a press conference at the police control room here, the IGP said that the security forces solved the case in less than 24 hours. Kumar said police have arrested three persons in connection with the attack on Ahmed. "Police pursued a lead and arrested an OGW (over ground worker) Ishfaq Ahmed, who provided names of two more persons. We arrested both of them as well. On further questioning, we got to know that three terrorists were hiding inside a house in Ghat Mohalla. A cordon was laid and at 4:35 am and firing started," he said. The IGP said the militants refused to surrender and took four to five civilians hostage. "That is why the operation got delayed. We took the hostages out and then the encounter started in which three terrorists were killed. The slain terrorists were identified as Suhail Nisar Lone and Yasir Wani, both residents of Khrew area of Pulwama, and Junaid Ahmad from Prichoo, Pulwama. All the three had joined (militants ranks) this year -- two in February and one in March," he said. Kumar said that two of them were involved in Thursday's Nowgam attack along with two others from Srinagar. "Lone was the one who was wearing a 'burqa' on Thursday (during the attack). Two of them were affiliated with the Al-Badr outfit. We recovered one AK-47 rifle, one pistol and the SLR rifle from them. This is the same SLR that was snatched during the Nowgam attack which proves they were involved in yesterday's attack," he said. He said the two militants, who were part of the Nowgam attack and are on the run, are of the Lashkar-e-Taiba and hail from Srinagar. "Efforts are on to trace the two Srinagar-based militants. We will get them soon," he said. The IGP said a vehicle used by militants in the attack has also been seized. "The vehicle was found outside the house where the encounter took place (on Friday). It belongs to the house's owner. We will arrest him under UAPA (Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act)," he said. He said a woman suffered a bullet wound in her leg during cross-firing near the encounter site, while three civilians suffered pellet injuries. "All are stable," Kumar said. Asked how many militants were active in Srinagar, the IGP said there were six of them including the two who are wanted in the Nowgam attack case. "We are working on leads and very soon they will either be arrested, killed or brought back," Kumar said, adding "we will not allow the situation in Srinagar to turn bad".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-234
02-04-2021||India||Covaxin gets nod to conduct clinical trials for third dose||The expert panel of India's drug regulator, DCGI, has permitted Bharat Biotech to give a third dose of Covaxin to a few volunteers in its clinical trials of the COVID-19 vaccine, sources said. Bharat Biotech presented amendments to the subject expert committee of the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) in the approved Phase 2 clinical trial protocol for administration of booster dose six months after second dose. "The firm presented amendments in the approved Phase 2 clinical trial protocol for administration of booster dose after six months after second dose. After detailed deliberation, the committee recommended that the firm should conduct the booster dose study only in 6 mcg cohort and also should follow up the subjects at least for six months after the third dose," the SEC said. Further, Bharat Biotech was asked to present the details of the primary and secondary objectives and various assessments to be carried out in the subjects. "Accordingly, firm (Bharat Biotech) should submit the revised clinical trial protocol for evaluation," the SEC said in the meeting that took place on March 23. In the meeting, Bharat Biotech presented amendments in the approved Phase 3 clinical trial protocol for unblinding of subjects on placebo and addition of another cohort in Brazil which the SEC recommended. "After detailed deliberation, the committee recommended that the firm may unblind the participants of age group of more than 45 years and offer to administer the vaccine free of cost as and when they become eligible for the vaccine in the national program," the SEC said. Further, the SEC recommended that the firm should submit a detailed revised clinical trial protocol for inclusion of cohorts from Brazil along with the revised statistical calculation for assessing the efficacy of the vaccine.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-234
02-04-2021||India||India sees highest single-day spurt in Covid cases in over six months||India recorded the highest single-day rise in coronavirus cases in six months with 81,466 new infections in a span of 24 hours, taking the COVID-19 tally of cases to 1,23,03,131, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. The single-day rise in cases is the highest recorded since October 2, 2020, while the death toll increased to 1,63,396 with 469 daily new fatalities, the highest since December 6, the data updated at 8 am showed. Registering a steady increase for the 23rd day in row, the active cases have increased to 6,14,696 comprising 5 per cent of the total infections, while the recovery rate has further dropped to 93.67 per cent, the data stated. As many as 81,484 new infections were recorded in a span of 24 hours on October 2 while 482 daily deaths were registered on December 6. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,15,25,039. The case fatality rate stood at 1.33 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 24,59,12,587 samples have been tested up to April 1, and 11,13,966 samples were tested on Thursday. The 469 new fatalities include 249 from Maharashtra, 58 Punjab, 34 from Chhattisgarh, 19 from Tamil Nadu, 18 from Karnataka, 11 from Kerala and 9 each from Delhi and Uttar Pradesh. A total of 1,63,396 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 54898 from Maharashtra, 12738 from Tamil Nadu, 12585 from Karnataka, 11036 from Delhi, 10331 from West Bengal, 8,820 from Uttar Pradesh and 7220 from Andhra Pradesh and 6926 from Punjab. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-235
02-04-2021||India||Congress blasts Modi govt for 'hitting the middle class below the belt'||The Congress on Thursday blasted the Narendra Modi government for “hitting the middle class below the belt” by reducing the interest rates on small savings schemes and then trying to pass off the move’s withdrawal as “oversight”. The Congress described finance minister Nirmala Sitha­raman’s decision to take back the official order announcing the slash as a panic reaction caused by the possible fallout in election-bound states. Former finance minister P. Chidambaram tweeted: “Announcement of interest rates on savings instruments for the next quarter is a regular exercise. There is nothing ‘inadvertent’ about its release on 31st March. The BJP Government had decided to launch another assault on the middle class by slashing the interest rates and profiting itself. When caught, the Finance Minister is putting forward the lame excuse of inadvertent error.” Chidambaram added: “Wh­en inflation is at about 6 per cent and expected to rise, the BJP Government is offering interest rates below 6 per cent, hitting the savers and the middle class below the belt.” While the withdrawn order would have fixed the PPF rate at the lowest 6.4 per cent, the interest rate on savings deposits had been reduced to 3.5 per cent. Interest rates on many other schemes had also been slashed. Rahul Gandhi took a dig at the government, saying: “Loot on petrol-diesel was continuing, the government will loot the middle class after the elections by reducing interest rates on savings. This government is of lies and loot and false promises.” Priyanka Gandhi Vadra also took a jibe at the finance minister’s “oversight” claim, tweeting: “Really, Nirmala Sitharaman, ‘oversight’ in issuing the order to decrease interest rates on Government of India schemes or election-driven ‘hindsight’ in withdrawing it?”Party’s communications chief Randeep Surjewala tweeted: “Madam FinaNCE Minister, are u running a circus or a Government? One can imagine the functioning of economy when such duly approved order affecting crores of people can be issued by an ‘oversight’. Who is the competent authority referred in order? You have no moral right to continue as Finance Minister.” The official memorandum issued on Wednesday mentioned it had the approval of the competent authority. It is the finance minister who is supposed to approve such decisions. Surjewala asked: “Who is this (in)competent authority? Why was the circular issued if it was not meant to be issued? Why was it even drafted in the first place? Was April Fool joke erroneously cracked on March 31? Oh! You will reduce it post elections.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-235
02-04-2021||India||Sitharaman tweets on Centre's 'oversight', withdraws cuts on small savings interest rate||The Narendra Modi government played a cruel April Fool joke on the country’s small savers with finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman issuing an early morning tweet announcing the rollback of the sharp interest rate cuts slapped on Wednesday on small savings deposits and schemes parked with the post offices and banks. The Union finance minister said the circular had been issued “by oversight” and would be withdrawn. The “correction” came on a day several Assembly seats in Bengal, including Nandigram, and Assam went to the polls. Several more rounds of elections are round the corner in Bengal and four other states. “Interest rates of small savings schemes of the GoI shall continue to be at the rates which existed in the last quarter of 2020-21, i.e. rates that prevailed as of March 2021,” the finance minister tweeted a little before 8am, less than an hour after polling began in Bengal and Assam. As has become typical of this government, it issued no apology or even try to explain what had led to the so-called “oversight”. Bengal, which is in the thick of a bitterly contested election, has one of the largest pools of small savers in the country and there was a huge risk that the state’s voters would react with alarm to the piffling returns on their investments. In a sarcastic response, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra riposted: “Really @nsitharaman ‘oversight’ in issuing the order to decrease interest rates on GoI schemes or election-driven ‘hindsight’ in withdrawing it?” The Congress fired a harsher broadside in which it suggested that it might be time for Sitharaman to resign after the dreadful faux pas. The party tweeted: “Convenient how these ‘oversights’ only seem to happen around election time. Speaking of which, what kind of ministry are you running madam FM, that passes orders which affect crores of people without even a second glance. Smt Nirmala Sitharaman, it's time to resign.” The Congress spokesperson said: “Why was this circular issued if it was not meant to be issued.… Was #AprilFoool joke erroneously cracked on 31st March? Ohh! U’ll raise it post elections.” Kanhaiya Kumar, who describes himself as a whistleblower, had filed an application under the Right to Information Act (RTI) seeking the name of the “competent authority” who had approved the revision of the rates and whether finance minister Sitharaman was aware of the decision. He also wanted to know whether there had been any meeting where the decision had been taken while seeking all the file notings, correspondence and official records relating to the issue. Small savings rates are linked to treasury and bond yields. The yield on the 10-year paper has been rising over the past month and currently rules above last year’s level -- shredding the only reason to justify a cut in the small savings rate. The yields on the shorter maturities are rising too. The Shyamala Gopinath committee had recommended in June 2011 that “the interest rates on 1-year time deposit may be benchmarked to 364-day T-Bills and that on 5-year TD may be benchmarked to 5-year G-Sec. The interest rate on 2-year and 3-year TD may be determined through linear interpolation between the interest on 1-year and 5-year maturity instruments.” Bond yields on 5-year and 10-year papers have virtually remained at the same levels as last year, which would therefore provide no justification for the 50-to-90-basis-point cut in the interest rates of these deposit schemes proposed on Wednesday. The yields on the 1-year treasury bill and the 2-year bond have fallen: from 4.21 per cent to 3.82 per cent in the case of the 1-year paper, and from 5.15 per cent to 4.26 per cent in the case of the two-year paper. The Reserve Bank has been trying to smoothen the yield curve for some time -- and it is possible that the yields may cool in the next few months. The Gopinath committee had suggested the small savings rates should be revised only once every year. The Modi government has been setting rates by quarters. Even on Wednesday, the new rates were supposed to be valid only till June 30, raising the possibility of revisions later in the year if the bond market yields tend lower. It is possible that the rate revision could still take place sometime after the Assembly elections. Small savers will have to continue to live in uncertainty as Sitharman did not commit to the old rates obtaining for the entire financial year. The latest data shows that the outstanding balance in all small savings schemes stood at Rs 823,203.85 crore on March 31, 2020. Of this, Bengal accounted for the highest contribution at Rs 120,831.27 crore, roughly 14.7 per cent of the total corpus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-235
02-04-2021||India||Tamil Nadu polls 2021: Two-day campaign bar on DMK's A. Raja||The Election Commission of India on Thursday banned former Union minister and DMK parliamentarian A. Raja from campaigning for two days as punishment for derogatory remarks against Tamil Nadu chief minister E.K. Palaniswami. The poll panel also sent a notice to Assam BJP minister Himanta Biswa Sarma whose remarks against Congress-ally Hagrama Mohilary of the Bodoland People’s Front were found to be prima facie violating the model code of conduct (MCC). So far, the commission has been silent on remarks by Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh on chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s clothing and on the party’s Nandigram candidate, Suvendu Adhikari, raising fears of a “mini Pakistan” in Bengal. The BJP’s Kapil Mishra was barred from campaigning in the Delhi polls last year for communal comments. On March 26, Raja had mocked Palaniswami with an observation on his birth in two speeches that the EC found “not only derogatory but also obscene and lowering the dignity of motherhood”. Raja was temporarily debarred from campaigning and his name struck off the list of his party’s star campaigners — which implies that his future campaign costs would be calculated as that of the respective candidate of the seat he canvasses in, and not his party. Candidates have an expenditure ceiling, which parties do not have. Later in the day, Madras High Court dismissed Raja’s plea against the EC’s action. The leader had recently apologised for his remarks. Sarma, the Assam finance minister, has been sent a notice for a speech on March 28 in which he had threatened a National Investigation Agency probe against Mohilary — a reformed insurgent who gave up arms for electoral politics in 2003. The BJP leader has been asked to explain his position by 5pm on Friday as his remarks fell within the ambit of Clauses 2 and 4 of the MCC that prohibit unverified allegations and intimidation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-235
02-04-2021||India||Temple politics steps into Jammu and Kashmir||The Union government plans to have a sprawling replica of the Tirumala Tirupati temple built in centrally administered Jammu and Kashmir, triggering allegations here that it is pandering to Hindu sentiments. Lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha’s administration has decided to lease 62 acres of government land to the Tirumala temple authorities to build the replica of the Andhra Pradesh shrine in Jammu, an official spokesperson said. Many Kashmiris said such a decision would not have been possible under an elected state government and was another consequence of the scrapping of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status in August 2019. The 2019 developments and subsequent changes to Jammu and Kashmir’s land and domicile laws have prompted suspicion among the region’s majority Muslim community that the Centre plans to alter the Union Territory’s demography through large-scale settlement of Hindus. The official spokesperson said the government’s administrative council had approved a proposal to allot 496 kanals and 17 marlas of land (62 acres) to the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanam to build the temple and allied infrastructure. He said the land would be allotted on a 40-year lease, which means the temple trust would not own the land. However, once the temple is built, the trust is likely to hold the land in perpetuity. The proposed temple complex will have a centre for pilgrim amenities, a Veda school and a meditation centre apart from offices, residential quarters and parking lots, the spokesperson said. He did not specify the site. “It’s a step towards changing the demography of this place and this government is pandering to the sentiments of Hindus,” Kashmir’s Grand Mufti Nasirul Islam told The Telegraph, alluding to the planned residential quarters within the proposed temple complex. “This is not an elected government which can take any such decision but a government that has been thrust on us by Delhi.” The official spokesperson said the Devasthanam, an independent trust established under the TTD Act of 1932, was a charitable organisation of international repute with a proven record in the spiritual, cultural, social and educational spheres. “Its arrival in Jammu and Kashmir will tap the tourism potential, particularly (attracting) pilgrims to Jammu, the city of temples, besides enhancing economic activities,” he said. Officials said the decision had come after months of negotiations with Andhra Pradesh officials deputed by their chief minister Y.S. Jaganmohan Reddy. “The Andhra government and the trust want to construct a replica of Tirumala in Jammu and Kashmir,” an official said. Grand Mufti Nasirul Islam cited how he had been campaigning for a new university in Kashmir named after Shah Hamdan, the Iranian Sufi saint who brought Islam to Kashmir in the 14th century, only for successive administrations to deny permission. “Why build a temple and not a university? How will a temple help provide employment to people?” he said, alluding to the Centre’s claim that the objective behind the 2019 changes was to bring jobs and economic development to Kashmir. “I think all people here will oppose it,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-235
02-04-2021||India||NIA raids 25 human rights and civil liberties activists in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh||The National Investigation Agency simultaneously raided the premises of at least 25 human rights and civil liberties activists in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh late on Wednesday for alleged Maoist links. According to the People’s Union for Civil Liberties, the raids continued till the early hours of Thursday and the sleuths seized phones, computers, laptops, books and papers from the activists. Among those raided are said to be some of the most prominent activists in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, including Raghunath Verose, a Telangana High Court advocate who is associated with the Andhra Pradesh Civil Liberties Committee, Dappu Ramesh who is a member of the Jana Natya Mandali, V.S. Krishna of the Human Rights Forum, and Paani, Varalakshmi and Arun of the Revolutionary Writers’ Association, sources said. NIA sources said that among the others raided are Devendra, Shilpa, Swapna, Rajeswari and Padma of the Chaitanya Mahila Sangam, Raghunath, Chilika Chandrashekhar and Chitti Babu of the Andhra Pradesh Civil Liberties Committee, Krishna of the Human Rights Forum, Dappu Ramesh of the Prajakala Mandali, Anjamma and Sirisha of the Amarula Bandhu Mitrula Sangham, and advocate K.S. Chelam. The agency has not officially revealed the names of the 25 activists who were raided and the details of their alleged links with Maoists. The NIA raids come after it took over the investigation launched in the aftermath of the arrest of an alleged Maoist courier, Pangi Naganna, at Vishakapatnam Rural district in Andhra Pradesh last December. The case pertains to the seizure of revolutionary literature of the CPI (Maoist), press notes, medicines, wire bundles and explosive substances from Pangi. “The investigation revealed that Pangi had been ostensibly working as a journalist and was passing on information about police movements to the leaders of the CPI (Maoist) He had also been involved in instigating villagers to obstruct combing operations of the police and prevent them from entering villages and motivating the villagers to revolt against the police… and hold rallies against the government....,” the NIA said in a statement. Besides Pangi, the agency had arrested five others — Anduluri Annapurna, Jangarla Koteswar Rao, Manukonda Srinivasa Rao, Rela Rajeswari and Boppudi Anjamma. “During the searches at 31 premises late on Wednesday we recovered 40 mobile phones, 44 SIM cards, 70 storage devices like hard discs, micro SD cards and flash cards, 184 CDs/DVDs, 19 pen drives, a tab, an audio recorder and Rs 10 lakh in cash from one accused, sickles, axe and machetes, besides CPI (Maoist) flags, as well as a huge number of incriminating documents, handwritten letters of the CPI (Maoist) party literature,” a senior NIA official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-235
02-04-2021||India||Covid-19: Vaccine on holidays too as cases rise||The Covid-19 vaccinations would be offered on all days of April, including on gazetted holidays, in public and private facilities, the Union health ministry said on Thursday as India’s counts of daily new cases breached 72,000, the highest in nearly six months. The health ministry on Thursday directed states to ensure that the vaccination campaign, which has opened to all above 45 years, runs every day during April to quickly expand the number vaccinated amid the epidemic’s fastest growth rate since August. The ministry said the decision to keep the campaign open throughout April was taken after discussions with states on Wednesday and was intended to rapidly increase the pace and coverage of Covid-19 vaccinations. India has administered over 65 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines since the campaign’s start on January 16, but only about 5.2 million of 10 million healthcare workers and 3.9 million of 20 million frontline workers have received both doses of their vaccines. Over 30 million people above 60 years and eight million between 45 and 60 with underlying health disorders have received first doses. The “all-days” campaign in April will allow more people to receive their second doses while the number of first-dose recipients grows. The nationwide campaign on Wednesday administered about two million doses, although medical advisers to the campaign have expressed hope that India has the infrastructure and capacity to administer between four and five million doses a day. Health officials have said they expect more private facilities to join the campaign. Until this week, the proportion of doses administered in private facilities ranged from below 25 per cent in Madhya Pradesh, Haryana and Uttarakhand to between 40 and 50 per cent in Delhi, Telangana and Chandigarh. At least 19 states across India, including four that share borders with Bengal, are not adhering to the Union health ministry’s recommendation of ensuring at least 70 per cent of their Covid-19 tests use the high reliability RT-PCR. In 19 states, the proportion of RT-PCR tests is below 50 per cent — from 15 per cent in Telangana, 16 per cent in Bihar, 19 per cent in Odisha to 44 per cent in Uttar Pradesh, 46 per cent in Delhi and 49 per cent in Chandigarh — the ministry said on Thursday. The Centre has repeatedly told states to increase the proportion of RT-PCR tests to at least 70 per cent because the alternative rapid antigen tests (RATs) that yield faster results carry a risk of not identifying some fraction of positive cases. “It could be that they don’t have the capacity or it could be that they don’t want to see the reality of what’s actually going on,” said Oommen John, a physician and senior research fellow at The George Institute for Global Health, New Delhi. A RAT test yields its result within minutes but is not considered reliable, particularly when the test result is negative. “RAT may sometimes not detect a true positive and wrongly report it as negative,” said Santhanu Tripathi, former professor at the School of Tropical Medicine, Calcutta. Positive patients mistakenly labelled as negative could continue to spread the infection because they are not told to isolate themselves.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-235
02-04-2021||India||Railway police yet to act against ABVP youths who bullied nuns||Railway police are yet to act against the ABVP members whose false allegation of illegal conversions led to two nuns and two women postulants being forced off a train 13 days ago and made to sit four hours in the GRP station at Jhansi Junction. A senior GRP official who sought anonymity said the office of the SP railways, which is probing whether the four youths should be prosecuted, is resorting to “delaying tactics”. He said the women’s statements — recorded over video calls since they were still too traumatised to agree to visit Jhansi — suggested the ABVP youths had bullied and abused them on the train and claimed to have government sanction in questioning them. He said that not only should the ABVP youths be booked for causing hatred and ill-will between religious groups — punishable by up to three years in jail — the GRP officers who acted “in haste” on their complaint should face departmental action. The two Delhi-based Keralite nuns and the two Odisha-based postulants (candidates, especially those seeking admission into a religious order) were travelling from Delhi to Rourkela on the Kalinga-Utkal Express on March 19. The ABVP members, their fellow passengers, accused the nuns of planning to convert the two younger women who they claimed were Hindus. Chandrakant Yadav, an ABVP leader from Jhansi, has said the ABVP members had complained to the railway police, who asked the women to get off the train and detained them at the platform GRP station from 7.30pm till 11.30pm. They were released after it was established that all four women had been born into Indian Christian families. “We (the GRP) were misled by the ABVP members and misinformed also by some local saffron leaders who arrived at Jhansi Junction after receiving phone calls from the ABVP youths and told us they had confirmed information that two women were travelling to Orissa for illegal conversions,” the senior GRP source told The Telegraph. “The women had their statements recorded last week via WhatsApp video calls. They said the ABVP members started misbehaving with them as soon as they got into the train. The women said the four youths claimed to have been authorised by the government to ask them questions. They were shouting and asking the nuns to prove they were Indian Christians by birth and also prove that the two younger women were not Hindus.” On why no case had been registered, he said the railway police were “trying to contact” fellow passengers to substantiate the women’s allegation. Asked why they needed such confirmation when the women had given their statements, he admitted this was “delaying tactics”. He added: “The nuns said they were still in mental trauma and felt unwell following the incident. The other two also refused to be present physically to have their statements recorded.” Asked why the railway police were delaying action against the accused, Naim Khan Mansoori, DSP, railway police, Jhansi, said over the phone: “The SP railways is conducting a probe.... Action will be initiated on the basis of the report.” He denied the GRP had mistreated the women. SP railways Saumitra Yadav didn’t answer a call from this newspaper. Some media outlets had quoted him as telling reporters three days ago: “We have recorded the statements of the four women and are preparing a report.” The nuns are associated with the Congregation of the Sacred Heart Society. Archbishop Felix Machado, secretary-general of the Catholic Bishops’ Conference of India, had demanded action against the (ABVP) complainants and the GRP personnel for “bringing dishonour and shame to all of us, the law-abiding citizens of our beloved Mother India”. “It’s unfortunate that the accused are still at large and the government is delaying the inquiry,” former Jhansi MP Pradeep Jain of the Congress said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-235
02-04-2021||India||Rohingya Muslim girl taken to border for deportation||A 14-year-old Rohingya Muslim girl has been taken to a border town in Manipur for deportation to Myanmar, police officials said on Thursday, as the UN refugee agency and rights groups pressed New Delhi to halt the process. Tens of thousands of Rohingya, who are denied citizenship in their home country Myanmar, have lived in India for years but the Centre regards them as a security threat and has started detaining them. Police have taken the girl to a border crossing in Manipur, where paperwork was being finalised to send her back to coup-hit Myanmar. She had been sheltered for more than a year in Assam, while her family lived as refugees in Bangladesh’s Cox's Bazar. “It is under process,” Assam police officer B.L. Meena told Reuters, referring to her deportation. “This was previously scheduled.” Diba Roy, founder of non-profit Nivedita Nari Sangshta in Assam’s Silchar town that had cared for the girl, said local authorities had been informed that she did not have family in Myanmar. “But she was sent to Myanmar,” Roy said, adding that she had received instructions from federal authorities to hand over the girl to local police this week. “We have only obeyed the order.” The foreign and home ministries did not immediately respond to requests for comment. The UN refugee agency, UNHCR, opposed the deportation. “The situation in Myanmar is not yet conducive for voluntary return in a safe, secure, and sustainable manner, and returning the child to Myanmar may place her at immediate risk of serious harm,” a UNHCR spokesperson said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-235
02-04-2021||India||Dadasaheb Phalke Award for superstar Rajinikanth just before Assembly elections||Superstar Rajinikanth will be honoured with the Dadasaheb Phalke Award, information and broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar announced on Thursday. The announcement comes days ahead of the April 6 Assembly polls in Tamil Nadu where the 70-year-old Rajinikanth resides and has a massive following among the people. In December last year, the actor, citing poor health and the pandemic, had declared that he would not enter politics weeks after announcing that he would launch a party and contest the Assembly elections in Tamil Nadu. Dadasaheb Phalke Award, Indian cinema’s highest honour for an artiste, for the year 2019, will be presented to Rajinikanth on May 3. Prime Minister Narendra Modi hailed Rajinikanth for his contribution to cinema while congratulating him on the honour. “Popular across generations, a body of work few can boast of, diverse roles and an endearing personality...that’s Shri @rajinikanth Ji for you. It is a matter of immense joy that Thalaiva has been conferred with the Dadasaheb Phalke Award. Congratulations to him,” Modi said in a tweet. Replying to the PM, the actor tweeted, “Immensely humbled and honoured with your greetings and the most prestigious #DadasahebPhalkeAward award respected and dearest Shri @narendramodiji. My heartfelt thanks to you and the government of India.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-235
02-04-2021||India||Kerala polls 2021: Fighting to seek justice for my daughters, says Walayar mom||Fate has played a cruel joke on V. Bhagyavathi. The bereaved mother, whose name means “lucky”, lost her two underage daughters one after another when they died by suicide following repeated sexual abuse. Now, she has decided to challenge chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan in the electoral field in her fight for justice for her children. Her minor daughters, aged 13 and nine, were found hanging from their shanty in Walayar, Palakkad, 52 days apart in January and March 2017. The children died apparently after failing to bear repeated rape by multiple men, including a minor — some of the perpetrators known to the family. Tragedy after tragedy unfolded in front of the eyes of Bhagyavathi as the accused were acquitted after two years of trial for want of adequate evidence. Four years after the trauma struck the poor family of daily wage labourers, “Walayar” Bhagyavathi, as she prefers to be identified as, is engaged in an arduous campaign at Dharmadam in Kannur district where she is contesting as an Independent. “When I decided to contest against the chief minister from Dharmadam, several people had asked me if I wasn’t afraid of opposing a powerful man like him. My answer is that I am contesting as part of my fight seeking justice for my daughters,” she told The Telegraph on Wednesday while campaigning at the Thalassery campus of Kannur University. Contrary to popular perception, she said no one had threatened her “so far”. “So far we have not received any threats from anyone. In fact I have been receiving a lot of support,” Bhagyavathi said. She has been provided two policemen who accompany her during the entire course of her daily canvassing. “I am not afraid of anyone or any party since I am not here to grab anyone’s seat. I am here only to seek justice and send a message across to this government that denied justice to my minor daughters,” the woman, who is being addressed as “Walayar mother”, said. Amid widespread allegations about some local CPM leaders helping the accused, the state was in for a shock when a special court in October 2019 acquitted the four adults for want of adequate evidence. The minor accused was let off because of his age. In February this year Bhagyavathi tonsured her head to protest government apathy and vowed never to grow her hair until justice was served. The state government in January handed over the cases related to the two girls’ death to the CBI after Kerala High Court ordered a retrial due to “miscarriage of justice” and set aside the acquittals. While the fourth accused, Pradeep Kumar, died by suicide in November 2020, Valiya Madhu and Shibhu have been arrested and sent to judicial custody following the reopening of the case. But Cheriya Madhu is still on bail, while the juvenile has not been re-arrested considering his age. The media had initially been in a quandary over how to report on Bhagyavathi, blurring her image to protect her identity and that of her daughters in keeping with the provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012. The Act prohibits the disclosure of any information that could lead to the identification of rape victims who are minors. But Bhagyavathi decided to use her image and full name in publicity materials like handouts and banners. To ease the restrictions, Bhagyavathi even furnished an affidavit declaring that she had no objection to being identified by her name. According to the affidavit, she has consented to her pictures being used in mainstream and social media. “I keep telling people that they must make good use of this election to choose between good and bad. It is high time our state had a government that showed concern for the poor, women and children,” she said, accusing the Left Democratic Front government of not doing enough to get the accused in her daughters’ case prosecuted and punish the policemen who botched up the investigation. Kannur is a CPM bastion where the Left Democratic Front won eight of the 11 seats in the 2016 elections. Vijayan had then trounced his Congress rival Mambaram Divakaran by 36,905 votes and is forecast to repeat a similarly robust victory. But the “Walayar mother” is not one to be cowed down by the Goliath she is facing. “I already won this election in my heart the day I filed my nomination papers. That is my way of telling aggrieved mothers like me to stand up and fight for our rights,” she said. As opposed to being afraid of contesting against Vijayan, Bhagyavathi said her experience in Kannur had been quite good. “I received maximum support from the people of the Dharmadam constituency. Shopkeepers and individuals make donations whenever I go around campaigning. This shows that the people have understood my fight.” Bhagyavathi on Tuesday campaigned in Vadakara in Kozhikode district for UDF candidate K.K. Rema, widow of T.P. Chandrashekaran who was hacked to death in May 2012 allegedly for breaking away from the CPM and forming the Revolutionary Marxist Party. She is set to campaign from Thursday in two reserved constituencies of Tarur and Kongad in Palakkad district just to highlight her cause and not to pitch for any party.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-236
02-04-2021||India||Kerala polls 2021: My name kept me close to my mother, says Sobha Subin||The election challenge will pale in front of the struggle that young Sobha Subin has faced growing up. Sobha, the Congress candidate making a strong pitch in the Left bastion of Kaipamangalam in Thrissur district, has long attracted attention for the unusual name for a man. The 35-year-old Kerala Youth Congress general secretary was named after his mother who was killed by his father. Sobha was just eight months old when his mother was killed and his father landed in jail for the crime. With no one to take care of him, Sobha’s maternal aunt Omana and maternal uncle Subramanian, a fisherman, took up guardianship. While Omana didn’t marry, Subramanian married when Sobha was 13 years old. “My father’s family had originally named me Shalabhan. But my aunt and uncle gave me my mother’s name, which kept her so close to me although I don’t have any memory of her,” Sobha told The Telegraph on Tuesday. While Omana worked as a domestic help to ensure little Sobha received proper education, the boy started pitching in by delivering newspapers when he was in Class VIII, cleaning dishes at beachside eateries, working at a scrapyard and eventually going fishing in the sea with his uncle to supplement the family income. But the unusual name for a boy did make him the butt of jokes among schoolmates. “Children always made fun of me and often called me a girl. But eventually I overcame such taunts since I felt my mother was with me due to my name. So I insisted that everyone call me Sobha (and not just Subin),” he said. Sobha admitted that life often reminded him of being an orphan although his aunt and uncle had fended for him. “I used to cry when I saw the other kids with their parents and how they attended school events and signed progress report cards.” When Sobha was in third standard his father obtained parole. “He came and met me and gave me Rs 10. I ran to my maternal grandmother and told her about it. But I got a mouthful from her. She then threw the money into our firewood stove and told me I had no father,” he said. Sobha’s father has since re-married and lives with his wife and three children. “I am not in touch with him,” Sobha said. Although he had stepped into student politics with the Congress-affiliated Kerala Students’ Union during his days at SN College in Nattika, Thrissur, Sobha knew it was time to earn a livelihood and support his uncle and aunt. “Like a lot of youngsters, I too went to meet M.A. Yusuf Ali when he came to Thrissur,” Sobha said, referring to the UAE-based tycoon who owns the Lulu group of supermarkets in the Gulf. “He was impressed with me when I told him I was a graduate and immediately offered me a job (at a Lulu supermarket). But after working for three years I yearned to return home and join politics and pursue LLB,” Sobha said. In his only stint away from family and politics, Sobha worked at the Lulu Hypermarket in the upscale Dubai neighbourhood of Al Barsha between 2007 and 2010. “In just a few months I realised life in Dubai for me was like a fish out of water. Life was limited to my workplace and home. Since the company had spent a lot on my visa and residence permit I decided to stick on for the course of its three-year validity and then moved back to my native place.” On returning to Thrissur, Sobha wrote the entrance test for LLB and eventually joined Government Law College in Thrissur. It was there that he met his life partner, K.M. Reshma, whom he married in August 2017. The couple have a seven-month-old daughter. “We named her Sobha Zia Fathima — Sobha being my mother’s name and Fathima being my mother-in-law,” he said. Busy with his gruelling campaign schedule, Sobha has his eyes fixed on winning the seat. “I have never lost in any of the four elections I have contested so far (three of them for college unions). So I am sure I can pull this one off,” he said. In the 2016 Kerala Assembly polls, the CPI’s E.T. Taison Master had won the Kaipamangalam seat by over 33,000 votes against M.T. Mohammed Nahas of the RSP, a partner in the Congress-led United Democratic Alliance. But Sobha is sure of winning this time. He is up against Taison Master and the BJP’s C.D. Sreelal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-236
