03-04-2021||India||5 security personnel killed in encounter with Naxals at Chhattisgarh||Five security personnel were killed and 12 others injured on Saturday in an encounter with Naxals in a forest along the border between Bijapur and Sukma districts in Chhattisgarh, police officials said.  The body of a woman Maoist was also recovered from the encounter spot, they said.  A senior police officer claimed, prima facie, Maoists have suffered a "huge loss" in the gunfight.  "Separate joint teams of security forces, over 2,000 in number, had launched a major anti-Naxal operation from Bijapur and Sukma districts in the South Bastar forests, considered as the Maoist stronghold, on Friday night," state's Deputy Inspector General (anti-naxal operations) OP Pal said.  The personnel belonging to the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), its elite unit CoBRA (Commando Battalion for Resolute Action), the District Reserve Guard (DRG) and the Special Task Force (STF) were involved in the operation launched from five places - Tarrem, Usoor and Pamed (Bijapur) and Minpa and Narsapuram (Sukma), he said.  "At around 12 noon on Saturday, an encounter broke out between the patrolling team that was dispatched from Tarrem and ultras belonging PLGA (Peoples' Liberation Guerilla Army) battalion of Maoists near Jonaguda village under Jagargunda police station area (in Sukma)," Pal said, adding the gunfight lasted for about three hours.  As per the information received so far, five security personnel have been killed and 12 others injured, he said.  "Of the martyred personnel, one belonged to the CoBRA unit and two each are from the DRG and the 'Bastariya' battalion of the CRPF," the DIG said.  He said a woman naxal was also gunned down in the encounter.  Citing the "ground report", Pal claimed that Maoists have suffered a huge loss in the gunfight.  "Reinforcements were rushed to the spot and the operation was underway to evacuate injured jawans as well as the bodies from the forest through helicopters," he said.  State's Director General of Police DM Awasthi, Task Force Commander of IAF's Anti-Naxal Task Force (ANTF) and senior police officials monitored the rescue operation and the situation from the 'ops room' at the police headquarter, he said.  On March 23, five DRG personnel were killed when Naxals blew up a bus carrying security personnel with an IED in Narayanpur district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-233
03-04-2021||India||Covid cases surging across several states at a staggering rate ||The latest wave of Covid-19 is surging at an alarming rate across a swathe of states and the total number of cases could be on course to surpass last September’s all-time peak as the virus spreads into Tier 2 and Tier 3 cities and towns and surrounding areas, experts say. In the last 24 hours, at least 89,129 fresh cases were reported nationwide and numbers are soaring, particularly in Maharashtra which on Friday announced 47,827 new cases. This followed two days when the state reported more than 40,000 cases on one day, and 39,544 the next day. What is particularly remarkable about this second Covid wave is the speed at which the number of cases is climbing.  “The rate of increase is phenomenal,” says virologist Shahid Jameel, director of the Trivedi School of Biosciences at Ashoka University.  India has added nearly half a million cases in the last seven days. Unlike the earlier waves that were largely confined to India’s mega-cities, this time round the number of cases is also rising in smaller cities like Nashik, Aurangabad, Nanded and Ahmednagar and even the surrounding rural areas in the districts. In Punjab, too, there has been a spate of cases in smaller towns and rural areas like the thinly populated Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar in the Doaba region. Even a smaller state such as Chhattisgarh has been hard hit during the latest wave. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has ordered a dusk-to-dawn curfew in Pune and has warned that he may be forced to declare a full-scale lockdown if the cases continue to rise in the next two days.  He addressed the public late Friday about the need for everyone to take “extreme precautions” and also tough measures the government aims to take. The infection is spreading even though 6.5 million people in the state have received at least one round of vaccination. Still, that’s only a fraction of the state’s 126 million population. Thackeray, who asked for state officials to prepare a lockdown plan late last month as people were not heeding masking and distancing rules, said public complacency about the risks of the virus was partly to blame for the rising cases. “We lowered the guard of late. Crowding was witnessed at wedding ceremonies and public places,” he said. The number of cases reported nationally Friday was the highest since September 20. The number of cases nationwide has been rising sharply for 23 straight days. Maharashtra is the state that has alarmed authorities the most. Maharashtra, Kerala, Chattisgarh, Chandigarh, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Delhi and Haryana have surpassed or are close to surpassing their last year peaks. Despite the surge, experts say a full-scale national lockdown is unlikely to tackle this wave, especially in view of the economic consequences of such a move. Last year’s total lockdown served a purpose because it slowed the pandemic spread and thereby won time for hospitals and doctors to prepare for its onslaught. This time the hospitals in most states are already fully prepared and doctors have also established fixed procedures for handling patients. The number of new daily cases peaked nationally last September 16 at 97,894. Punjab reported 2,903 new cases and 57 deaths Friday.  Worryingly, the cases are spread out over a string of middle-sized cities including Jalandhar, Patiala,  Amritsar, Ludhiana and Mohali, which wasn’t a feature of the last surge. Genomic studies have shown 81 per cent of the Punjab cases are caused by the fast-spreading UK variant. In the Doaba region, particularly, almost every other household has relatives in the UK.  Punjab is facing an additional problem because it doesn’t have enough beds in the smaller towns and rural areas. Chhattisgarh, which has also been hard-hit by the pandemic, has announced a complete lockdown in Durg district between April 6 and April 14 with only essential services exempted and night curfews have been imposed in 22 other districts. Chhattisgarh recorded 4,174 new cases on Friday. The two most severely hit districts in the state are Durg and Raipur which recorded 996 cases and 1,327 cases respectively on Thursday. Experts suggest that a special effort should be made to step up vaccinations in hard-hit states like Maharashtra, Punjab and Kerala. Delhi’s Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal has appealed to the Centre to open up vaccination centres for everyone instead of restricting it to certain age groups. If the centre allows mass vaccinations, the Delhi government could use community centres, schools and other public sites to administer the injections, Kejriwal said. So far, close to 74 million anti-Covid jabs have been given nationwide, an impressive total by itself, but still representing only 5.2 per cent of the 1.4 billion population. Besides these measures,  the central government might need to rethink its tough stand on vaccines made by companies like Johnson & Johnson and also the Russian Sputnik V. The government allowed Bharat Biotech to go ahead with giving its vaccine to the public even though the Phase III clinical trials had not been completed. However, on Thursday it informed Sputnik V it would have to provide further information and might have to perform local bridging trials. Sputnik V has an advantage it is a freeze-dried vaccine and only needs to be reconstituted by adding water.  Hyderabad-based Dr Reddy’s Labs has signed a contract to produce 250 million Sputnik V doses with RDIF, a Russian sovereign fund. One more positive aspect is that experts believe the infections emerging in the latest wave are milder than in the earlier ones. This could also be because this time many of the people who are being struck by the virus are younger and their bodies are able to cope with the infection more robustly. Some doctors also note an apparent preponderance of the newer cases emerging in more affluent parts of Mumbai. This has resulted in private hospitals having fewer beds free than the city’s government hospitals. Currently, apartment blocks and certain colonies are facing limited lockdowns. Night curfews are being imposed to prevent youngsters and others from meeting in bars and restaurants where infections can spread rapidly. India's health ministry last week announced it has identified various new coronavirus variants circulating in the country, including one it described as a “double mutant,” but said it was too early to conclude which factors were driving the latest case upsurge nationally. India could face even severe risks in the coming weeks. Already, large crowds have gathered for election rallies in states like West Bengal, Assam, Kerala and Tamil Nadu which are in the midst of intense campaigning. Even more seriously, enormous crowds of possibly up to 10 million on certain days will be turning up for the Kumbh Mela that is already underway in Haridwar and which will continue till April 30. The government has been looking at the pros and cons of vaccinating children. However, this appears to have been put on the backburner for the moment. Meantime, Bangladesh is reported to have decided to impose a seven-day lockdown starting Monday amid surging cases and deaths that have reversed the previous declining pattern. Pakistan on Friday reported more than 5,000 new coronavirus cases in 24 hours, the highest single-day spike since last June, officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-233
03-04-2021||India||Farooq Abdullah, Covid-positive, shifted to hospital for better care||Veteran politician and National Conference president Farooq Abdullah, who tested positive for Covid-19 recently, was on Saturday admitted to a hospital as a precautionary measure. Taking to Twitter, his son Omar Abdullah said Farooq Abdullah has been admitted to hospital in Srinagar based on the advice of doctors "to enable them to better monitor" him. "Our family remains grateful to everyone for their messages of support and their prayers," he added. The 85-year-old NC president tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. He was kept in home-isolation initially, but doctors on Saturday decided to shift him to a hospital for better medical care. Omar had informed about his father testing positive for the coronavirus and also urged everyone who came in contact with him recently to get tested. “My father has tested positive for Covid-19 & is showing some symptoms. I will be self-isolating along with other family members until we get ourselves tested. I request anyone who has come in contact with us over the last few days to take all the mandated precautions,” he had said in a tweet. Several leaders, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi, wished him a speedy recovery after news of his testing positive for the disease came to light. Farooq Abdullah received his first dose of Covid-19 vaccine on March 2.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-233
03-04-2021||India||Shah urges Tamil Nadu to reject 'corrupt, dynastic' DMK-Congress combine||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Saturday attacked the DMK-Congress combine over "corruption and dynasty" and said only the AIADMK-BJP alliance can "protect" those who believe in the culture of Tamil Nadu. Speaking to reporters after attending a road show here in support of BJP's Thousand Lights candidate Khushbu Sundar for the April 6 Assembly elections, the senior leader appealed to the people of the state to ensure a 'double engine' government for Tamil Nadu's development. AIADMK, BJP and PMK are facing the polls as allies under the NDA banner. "Only the AIADMK-BJP alliance can protect Tamil Nadu's fishermen, unemployed youth, women and all those having faith in Tamil Nadu's culture," he said and appealed to the voters to choose the NDA candidates with a massive majority. The Home Minister lauded Chief Minister K Palaniswami and his deputy O Panneerselvam for taking the state on the path of development and for the effective handling of the COVID-19 pandemic, saying Tamil Nadu has been at the 'forefront' of the fight against the contagion. "Tamil Nadu's growth is possible only when we defeat the corrupt and dynastic DMK and Congress," he said. The development initiatives launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi across the country should come to Tamil Nadu to fulfill the dreams of the 'great' late chief ministers M G Ramachandran and J Jayalalithaa, both AIADMK stalwarts, had for Tamil Nadu, he added. Earlier, the BJP veteran travelled atop an open van with Sundar and AIADMK candidates from nearby constituencies at the well-attended roadshow. Amid chants of 'Bharat Mata ki jai' and fluttering flags of alliance parties being carried by the respective outfits, Shah attended the road show in the last leg of the campaign, which ends tomorrow, here. BJP has fielded Sundar, an actor-politician, from this constituency, where she will be taking on DMK's Dr N Ezhilan. Elections to 234 Assembly seats in Tamil Nadu are scheduled on April and the counting of votes will be done on May 2.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-233
03-04-2021||India||India logs almost 90,000 fresh Covid case, 714 casualties in a day||India on Saturday recorded 89,129 new COVID-19 cases in a day, the highest daily rise in around six-and-half-months, taking the nationwide tally of infections to over 1.23 crore, according to the Union Health Ministry data on Saturday. The death toll increased to 1,64,110 with 714 more fatalities in a day, also the highest since October 21. The jump in cases reported on Saturday was the highest since September 20 last year when 92,605 new infections were recorded in a span of 24 hours. Corresponding to the rapid surge in cases, the number of active cases too have registered a steady increase for the 24th day in a row with the tally reaching 6,58,909, which is 5.32 per cent of the total infections. The recovery rate has further dropped to 93.36 per cent, the data stated. The active caseload was the lowest at 1,35,926 on February 12 and comprised 1.25 per cent of the total infections. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,15,69,241, while the case fatality rate has dropped to 1.32 per cent, the health ministry data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16 last year. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20. The one-crore mark was breached on December 19 last year. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 24,69,59,192 samples have been tested for COVID-19 up to April 2 with 10,46,605 of them being tested on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-233
03-04-2021||India||Tamil Nadu polls 2021: Income-tax officials raid the home and office of M.K. Stalin’s son-in-law||Income-tax officials raided the home and office of DMK chief M.K. Stalin’s son-in-law Sabareesan on Friday, four days before Tamil Nadu votes to elect a new state government. “I am M.K. Stalin. This Stalin has faced Emergency and MISA (a controversial law that gave the Centre and law enforcement agencies sweeping powers). I won’t be scared because of these raids. Prime Minister Modi should know that we are not AIADMK leaders who prostrate themselves before him,” Stalin said. Addressing a rally in Perambalur, he said: “This morning I came to Trichy from Chennai. I was informed of a raid going on at my daughter’s house in Chennai. I want to tell Modi that this is the DMK, don’t forget that. I am the son of Kalaignar (late DMK patriarch M. Karunanidhi); I won’t be scared.” The DMK lodged a complaint with the Election Commission against the raids, which it described as abuse of power. The income-tax department reports to the Union government. This is the second tax raid against DMK leaders in the run-up to the April 6 elections. “Raiding the Opposition is BJP’s coping mechanism when facing electoral defeat,” Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said in a tweet following the raids that started at 8am at four locations in Chennai. The Congress is part of the DMK-led alliance that is looking to oust the AIADMK from power. The BJP is an AIADMK ally. DMK spokesperson C. Ravindran said: “Since the BJP government came to power, their practice has been to use government institutions during elections to intimidate and threaten the Opposition.” In Assam, which too is holding Assembly elections now, BJP campaign spearhead Himanta Biswa Sarma was on Friday barred from campaigning for 48 hours for threatening a rival party candidate with a National Investigation Agency probe. The March 28 speech in which he threatened Hagrama Mohilary of the Bodoland People’s Front, a Congress ally, with an NIA probe has been found in violation of Clauses 2 and 4 of the model code of conduct that prohibit unverified allegations and intimidation. On Thursday, Stalin’s son Udayanidhi had at a rally in Coimbatore raised questions about the assets owned by Union home minister Amit Shah’s son Jay Shah. He had offered to transfer all his assets to Jay if the home minister’s son agreed to transfer his to Udayanidhi. Last week, DMK leader E.V. Velu’s home and guesthouse were raided around the time when Stalin was campaigning for him in Tiruvannamalai, the constituency from where the 70-year-old is seeking re-election. On Friday, raids were launched at premises owned by Sabareesan and his associates Karthick and Bala. A large number of DMK cadres gathered outside his home at Neelankarai in Chennai while the searches were on. Sabareesan is a key strategist in Stalin’s core team. Karthick is the son of Mohan, DMK candidate from Annanagar. The DMK said the tax officials were “working for the poll prospects of the AIADMK-BJP under the garb of discharge of their duties” and urged the Election Commission to restrain them. There was no official statement from the tax department on the raids. Opposition parties have long been accusing the Narendra Modi government of letting loose investigating agencies on their leaders to intimidate or settle scores with them. Among Congress politicians whom the CBI and the Enforcement Directorate have raided or arrested in corruption cases over the past two years are former Union minister P. Chidambaram and Karnataka state Congress president D.K. Shivakumar. Shivakumar had managed to keep 44 Gujarat MLAs together in Karnataka to prevent poaching by the BJP ahead of a Rajya Sabha election that Congress leader Ahmed Patel eventually won. In 2017, the CBI and the ED had conducted raids on properties owned by RJD chief Lalu Prasad’s family members, including then Bihar deputy chief minister Tejashwi Yadav. The action led to the collapse of the Grand Alliance government in Bihar. Modi also campaigned in Kerala, where he accused the ruling Left Front and the Opposition Congress-led alliance of “their own seven deadly sins” such as pride, arrogance and greed. In Kerala, which has a substantial Christian population, Modi has been making Biblical references to target his opponents. The Prime Minister made the reference to the “seven deadly sins” — a popular theme in the morality plays and literature of the European Middle Ages — for political gains on Good Friday, a day of sorrow, penance and fasting to commemorate the crucifixion of Jesus Christ. It is not clear which element — the spirit of forgiveness or political exigency — prompted Modi to use the image of Jayalalithaa to seek votes on the same day he accused others of sins. Jayalalithaa was the first chief minister to lose her chair on the ground of conviction in a disproportionate assets case while in office. The case was, ironically, filed by Subramanian Swamy who is now aBJP Rajya Sabha member. Jayalalithaa was eventually acquitted by the high court and returned to power. In February 2017, a few months after Jayalalithaa’s death, the Supreme Court overturned the acquittals in the case and sent her aide Sasikala to prison. The proceedings against Jayalalithaa were abated and dismissed on account of her death.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-233
03-04-2021||India||Assam polls 2021:  EVM machine found in car of BJP candidate's wife||The Election Commission on Friday ordered re-polling at an Assam booth and suspended four polling officials and a police officer after an electronic voting machine was found in a car owned by a BJP candidate’s wife following Thursday’s voting. The four polling officials, including a presiding officer, were in the car, accompanying the EVM from a booth in the Ratabari Assembly constituency to the strong room in Karimganj town, 350km south of Guwahati. On the way, a mob attacked the car and the officials, alleging the voting machine was being taken to be tampered with. In purported videos of the incident, an EVM can be clearly identified through the windows of the car, which had slowed down, and the mob would have spotted it. After Opposition leaders questioned the commission’s neutrality following Thursday night’s fiasco, the poll panel clarified that the officials had taken a lift after their vehicle broke down in the rain, and were unaware of their host’s BJP link. It added that the voting machine was unharmed. The commission did not specify how many voting machines were in the car but sources in Karimganj said there was just “one EVM set”, made up of a ballot unit, a control unit and a voter-verifiable paper audit trail device. The commission’s special general observer Sudarshan Srinivasan later said in a report: “Action be taken against armed escort officer for leaving behind the stranded polling party and not ensuring their safe arrival at destination.” The poll panel said that in addition to presiding officer Sahab Uddin Talukdar and three colleagues, their armed escort, sub-inspector (armed branch) Luhit Gohain, too had been suspended. “While the sector officer was arranging for an alternate vehicle, the polling party decided to arrange a vehicle of its own so as to reach the Material Receipt Centre faster since they were in custody of polled EVMs,” the commission said in a statement. “As reported by the polling party, they moved towards Karimganj and as they reached Kanaishil in Karimganj at about 2200 hrs, they had to slow down in the traffic. As they slowed down, they were surrounded by a mob of about 50 people which started pelting stones at them.” It added: “The mob also started abusing them and did not allow the vehicle to pass. When they (polling officials) asked the leader of the mob, he replied that it was the vehicle of Sri Krishnendu Paul who is a contesting candidate of a neighbouring constituency (Patharkandi LAC-2) and he (mob leader) levelled allegations that the EVM was being taken to be tampered with.” Reports suggested a police constable and a home guard were in the car with the polling officials. It wasn’t clear who or how many people were travelling in the car — apparently an SUV — when the polling officials “hailed” it. “Immediately after receiving information about the incident, DEO (district election officer) Karimganj along with SP Karimganj rushed to the spot and reached there at 2220 hrs. Also in the meanwhile, the antecedents of the vehicle were ascertained and it was found to be registered in the name of Smti Madhumita Paul, wife of contesting candidate, Patharkandi LAC No 2, Shri Krishnendu Paul,” the commission statement said. “On arrival at the spot, it was observed that the crowd was pulling out the polling party and were about to assault them. The mob had turned violent and had damaged the glass of the vehicle by stone pelting. During the course of the stone pelting, SP Karimganj sustained minor injuries on his collarbone and blank firing had to be resorted to disperse the mob.” Three of the four officials were rescued and the voting machine moved to the Karimganj strong room by 11.20pm. On Friday morning, the police found the fourth official hiding in the undergrowth nearby. “Although the seals of the EVM were found intact, it has nevertheless been decided to do a re-poll at No. 149 Indira M.V. School of LAC 1 Ratabari (SC) as added precaution,” the commission said. The date for the re-polling has not been announced. Thursday witnessed the second phase of polling in Assam, with the last phase scheduled on April 6. Congress MP Rahul Gandhi tweeted: “EC car is bad, BJP’s intentions are bad, the condition of democracy is bad!” His ally Badruddin Ajmal, MP from the All India United Democratic Front, tweeted: “Polarisation? Failed. Buying votes? Failed. Buying candidates? Failed. Jumle-baazi? Failed. Double CMs? Failed. Doublespeak on CAA? Failed. Loser BJP’s last resort: steal the EVMs. Murder of democracy.” Special general observer Srinivasan’s report said: “There does not seem to be any grounds for change of RO (returning officer) as this appears to be an isolated incident, due to the total negligence and foolishness of the presiding officer and his team. “There is otherwise no deliberate or malafide intention in the incident aimed to disrupt the polling process. To ensure credibility and fairness, it is appropriate to order repoll....” Priyanka Gandhi Vadra tweeted: “Every time there is an election, videos of private vehicles caught transporting EVM’s show up. Unsurprisingly they have the following things in common: 1. The vehicles usually belong to BJP candidates or their associates. 2. The videos are taken as one-off incidents and dismissed as aberrations. 3. The BJP uses its media machinery to accuse those who exposed the videos as sore losers.” She added: “The fact is that too many such incidents are being reported and nothing is being done about them. The EC needs to start acting decisively on these complaints and a serious re-evaluation of the use of EVM’s needs to be carried out by all national parties.” Three constituencies in Karimganj district were caught in the sweep of events: the EVM was from Ratabari; the mob attack took place at Kanaishil in North Karimganj constituency, 2km from the strong room at Karimganj College; and the vehicle was from Patharkandi. Ratabari and Patharkandi are adjoining constituencies, both held by the BJP. North Karimganj is with the Congress. Ratabari is about 40km and Patharkandi 32km from Karimganj town. The commission described the controversy as an “unfortunate incident” and said the officials had been suspended for “violating transport protocol”. It said the officials were returning in an armed convoy to Karimganj after polling ended at 6pm. Bad weather had caused an “unprecedented” traffic congestion on NH8 involving an estimated 1,300 vehicles. As the polling party approached Nilam Bazaar, their vehicle broke down at about 9pm. “Due to the traffic congestion and the prevailing weather condition, the party became detached from its convoy. The party alighted from the vehicle and called the sector officer Sri Ajoy Sutradhar on his mobile and informed him,” the commission said. Around 9.20pm, the polling party “hailed” a passing car and boarded it with their EVM and other materials without checking the ownership of the car, AS-10B-0022. Several democracy activists had earlier questioned the security of the voting machines, particularly after the introduction of the paper trail devices that are re-programmable and connect the ballot unit to the control unit. Trinamul and the CPM have demanded a 100 per cent tally of the count between the paper trail and the corresponding voting machine. Following a Supreme Court order in 2019, five paper trail devices are tallied with the corresponding electronic voting machines in each Assembly constituency. If there’s a mismatch, only the paper trail count is considered and that particular voting machine’s count is disregarded. The election is not countermanded. CPM general secretary Sitaram Yechury tweeted: “Question marks over Election Commission’s neutrality continue to mount. EC has failed to reassure the people that EVMs cannot be tampered with to negate democratic verdict. EC must take strict penal action & disqualify the BJP candidate.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-233
03-04-2021||India||‘Grave concern’ on Covid surge in 11 states||The Centre on Friday labelled Maharashtra, Punjab, Chhattisgarh and eight others as “states of grave concern” because of their fast-growing Covid-19 epidemics as India recorded 81,000 new cases nationwide, only 17,000 fewer than the peak count in mid-September. The 11 states — which also include Delhi, Gujarat, Haryana, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, and Uttar Pradesh — have contributed to about 90 per cent of the new Covid-19 cases and deaths over the past two weeks. In a meeting on Friday chaired by cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba, authorities from these states were told to take “immediate and effective” steps to contain the spread of the virus and curb Covid-19 deaths through adherence to standard clinical treatment protocols. The cabinet secretary, relying on data from the Union health ministry and states, pointed out that there has been a continuous deterioration of the Covid-19 situation over the past fortnight. The case growth rate in March 2021 has been 6.8 per cent, higher than the previous record of 5.5 per cent in June last year. During the epidemic’s first nationwide wave last year, India had reported a peak of about 97,000 cases in mid-September. On Friday, the country counted 81,466 new cases, raising the total number of active patients to 614,000, more than 60 per cent of the peak of one million cases in mid-September. Health officials are also concerned that clusters of infections have also emerged in tier-2 and tier-3 cities and the epidemic threatens to seep into rural areas with limited diagnostic or treatment facilities where it could overwhelm the health infrastructure. The epidemic nationwide has grown much faster now than during the first wave. The average daily new cases increased in March 2021 from roughly 18,000 to 62,000 within 23 days, compared to a near similar rise over 40 days during July-August 2020. Gauba pointed out during the meeting that the 11 states showing a surge in daily cases have not shown commensurate increase in the enforcement of containment activities and urged state police officials to enforce Covid-19 appropriate behaviour. The Union health ministry had expressed concern on Thursday that at least 19 states are conducting less than 50 per cent of their diagnostic tests with the high reliability RT-PCR tools instead of the minimum recommended 70 per cent. Low proportions of RT-PCR leads to positive cases misleadingly labelled as false negative and facilitate continued spread of the virus. At the meeting, the states were asked to increase testing continuously to ensures that the number testing positive over the total number tested falls below 5 per cent. They were also asked to ensure that at least 25 to 30 close contacts of each positive case should be traced, quarantined and tested and to establish containment zones around clusters of cases. They have also been asked to increase the number of isolation beds, oxygen beds and critical care facilities. The health ministry has also warned that markets, melas (fairs) and religious congregations may become super-spreader events.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-233
03-04-2021||India||Congress raises suspicions about the manipulation of EVMs and the EC’s attitude||The Congress leadership on Friday voiced its suspicions about the manipulation of electronic voting machines and frustration with the Election Commission’s attitude amid the outcry over the discovery of an EVM in a BJP candidate’s car in Assam on Thursday night. The Congress, which has expressed its reservations about EVMs in the past and even demanded return to ballot papers, contended that repeated incidents like this were dismissed as one-off aberration even though it had become a trend in the past five to six years. Stressing that all EVM incidents invariably come with a BJP link, the Congress insisted it was high time the Election Commission took remedial steps. While some senior leaders felt the recurring incidents showed complicity of the Election Commission with the BJP and wondered if the nation should stop expecting impartiality from the constitutional authority, others demanded a probe by a joint parliamentary committee. The commission’s explanation of the Assam incident was unanimously rejected as “scripted excuse”. The leadership of the Congress stepped out to register their protest instead of leaving it to the spokespersons. Rahul Gandhi led the charge with a tweet: “EC ki gadi kharab, BJP ki neeyat kharab, loktantr ki haalat kharab.” In one tweet, Rahul questioned the BJP’s intentions and the commission’s attitude, arguing that these two have combined to destroy the health of Indian democracy. Party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra offered a comprehensive critique, saying: “Every time there is an election videos of private vehicles caught transporting EVM’s show up. Unsurprisingly they have the following things in common: 1. The vehicles usually belong to BJP candidates or their associates. 2. The videos are taken as one-off incidents and dismissed as aberrations 3. The BJP uses its media machinery to accuse those who exposed the videos as sore losers.” Priyanka added: “The fact is that too many such incidents are being reported and nothing is being done about them. The EC needs to start acting decisively on these complaints and a serious re-evaluation of the use of EVM’s needs to be carried out by all national parties.” She also heaped scorn on the EC’s explanation in another tweet, “What a script! When the vehicle of the Election Commission breaks down, a car that appears at the spot belongs to a BJP leader. The innocent EC gets into the car and continues the journey. Dear EC, what is happening?” Senior leader Digvijaya Singh, who has been pleading with the commission to look into the vulnerabilities of EVM, said: “Every time there is a complaint of malfunctioning of EVM, you press any button vote goes to BJP!! Every time you find EVM in possession of unauthorised person he is connected to BJP! Now EC would take action against officials but what about BJP and its candidate? It has crossed all limits!”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-234
03-04-2021||India||PMAY: Centre asks states to physically verify additional 3.5 crore beneficiaries||The Centre has asked the states to physically verify the additional 3.5 crore beneficiaries they have listed for the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana Gramin, a housing scheme, amid suspicion that the lists are inflated with well-off people. Social activists suggested that most of the listed households were deserving and the verified lists may have over 2 crore prospective beneficiaries. But officials told The Telegraph that once the corrected lists come, the Centre may drastically pare the number down again to just 81 lakh. The scheme was started in November 2016 with the aim of providing pucca houses to 2.95 crore households by 2022. But 81 lakh of these families subsequently built houses for themselves, either with the support of state government schemes or on their own steam, reducing the existing beneficiary count to 2.14 crore. So far, 1.36 crore houses have been completed. Officials here said that whatever the total number of additional beneficiaries the states identify on their verified lists, the Centre would select only 81 lakh of them and be content to meet the original count of 2.95 crore. Families that have worked more days under the rural job scheme, and have aged heads and more members will be given priority. The list of 3.5 crore includes nearly 58 lakh households from Bengal. After the Centre had identified its original target of 2.95 lakh beneficiaries, the states had argued that many deserving families had missed out. The states were then allowed to carry out their own surveys, called Awaas Plus, through the gram sabhas. “The state lists are based on the data submitted by the gram sabhas. No verification was done,” an official here said. Social activist Sandeep Pradhan from Jharkhand said the gram sabhas had included many households who had got houses built under the erstwhile Indira Awas Yojana. “I would say that 35 to 40 per cent of those on the Awaas Plus list are well off and should not be included. But at least 60 per cent need support,” Pradhan said. The minutes of a review meeting with the states that the Union rural development ministry website has uploaded on its website say: “All the states/ UTs have been requested to do physical verification of the households registered on Awaas+ app and identify ineligible households. The names of the ineligible households shall be removed.” Under the PMAY Gramin, the Centre provides 60 per cent of the cost of the new, two-room houses. It provides Rs 1.2 lakh for a house in the plains and Rs 1.3 lakh in hilly areas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-234
03-04-2021||India||Two Sangh parivar activists held in nun harass case at Jhansi Junction||Two Sangh parivar activists have been arrested in connection with the harassment of two nuns and two postulants at Jhansi Junction a fortnight ago, the action stemming apparently from the BJP’s electoral compulsions in Kerala. However, the main accused — four ABVP members who had falsely accused the Delhi-based Keralite nuns of planning to convert the allegedly “Hindu” postulants from Odisha — have not even been booked yet. Union home minister Amit Shah had at a rally in poll-bound Kerala last week promised action, aware of the resentment in the state over the harassment of the Keralite nuns, members of the Congregation of Sacred Heart Society. Sources in the Government Railway Police (GRP) said the force eventually acted on Thursday night after a prod from Shah’s ministry to the state government. The GRP hurriedly registered a case against Jhansi district VHP general secretary Anchal Adjaria and district Bajrang Dal vice-president Purukesh Amarya and arrested them. The GRP had forced the four women off the Utkal Express and detained them for four hours at Jhansi Junction on March 19 on the false complaint from the four ABVP members, who were travelling on the same coach as the women. Adjaria and Amarya had rushed to Jhansi Junction after receiving calls from the ABVP youths and allegedly told the GRP they had confirmed information that the women were involved in conversions. GRP sources didn’t specify what offence they had been charged with. The women were let off only after the GRP was satisfied that all four had been born to Indian Christian families. Religious conversions per se are not illegal but Hindutva activists and the police have been known to harass people by falsely accusing them of conducting forced conversions. The GRP have not explained why they have not booked or arrested the four ABVP members who had allegedly bullied the women on the train, levelled the false allegation of conversions, and got the GRP to detain the quartet. The ABVP is the student arm of the RSS. A senior GRP official in Lucknow had earlier told this newspaper that not only should the ABVP youths be booked for promoting hatred between religious groups — punishable by up to three years in jail — the GRP officers who had acted “in haste” on their false complaint should face departmental action. The incident had caused anger in Kerala, where Assembly elections are scheduled on April 6. It was Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan who had brought the incident to light by writing to Shah. Church representatives too had demanded action against the alleged bullies. Shah, while campaigning in Kanjirapally in Kottayam district on March 24, had been compelled to refer to the matter after BJP candidate and former Union minister K.J. Alphons raised the issue at the rally. “I want to assure the people of Kerala that the culprits will be brought to book at the earliest,” Shah had said. Rahul Gandhi, MP from Wayanad in Kerala, had on March 24 blamed the harassment of the nuns on “the vicious propaganda run by the Sangh parivar to pitch one community against another and trample the minorities”. The women had boarded the train in Delhi and were travelling to Rourkela. They have said in their recorded statements, made through WhatsApp video calls, that the four ABVP members kept shouting at them through the journey till Jhansi. Additional reporting by K.M. Rakesh from Bangalore||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-234
03-04-2021||India||India’s presence at the Myanmar army show a regular diplomatic exercise: External affairs ministry||In the first official comment on the Indian defence attaché attending the Myanmar Armed Forces Day parade in Naypyitaw on March 27 — a day that saw the Myanmarese army shoot down 114 pro-democracy protesters — the external affairs ministry on Friday described India’s presence at the event as a “regular diplomatic exercise’’. Asked how India’s participation at the event is consistent with New Delhi’s stated position that democracy must be restored in Myanmar, external affairs ministry spokesman Arindam Bagchi said at the weekly news conference: “We have a functioning embassy in Myanmar. Our ambassador, defence attaché and other diplomatic officials continue to discharge their regular diplomatic responsibilities. Nothing more should be read into the defence attaché attending this event.’’ India, according to Nikkei Asia, was among the eight countries which sent representatives to the annual parade; the others being Russia, China, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Vietnam, Laos and Thailand. India’s presence was particularly conspicuous because the country prides itself for being the world’s largest democracy. India’s decision to participate in the parade had drawn criticism from the pro-democracy movement in Myanmar which tweeted a condemnation from a verified handle: “Indian embassy in Myanmar sent their military attaché to the military junta’s ‘armed forces day’ ceremony. India is one of the greatest democracies in the world. Why do you shake hands with the generals whose hands are soaked with our blood? @DrSJaishankar @MEAIndia @PMOIndia’’ At the start of the military coup in Myanmar on February 1, India had expressed deep concern and called for the rule of law and the democratic process to be restored. On Friday again, the spokesman while responding to questions on the crackdown on pro-democracy protests, said: “We condemn any use of violence. We believe the rule of law should prevail. We stand for the restoration of democracy in Myanmar. We have urged the release of political prisoners and supported any attempts at resolving the current situation including through the efforts of Asean (Association of Southeast Asian Nations). We remain engaged on this issue with our international interlocutors and at the UNSC (United Nations Security Council) in an effort to play a balanced and constructive role.’’ Asean, of which Myanmar is a part, is divided on the issue but there is a move within to host a special summit to facilitate dialogue with the junta. China, too, is backing this initiative. India, which currently has a seat in the UNSC as a non-permanent member, has been advocating restraint in the face of a push for UN sanctions on Myanmar that was blocked by China. India, which had been deepening its relationship with the Myanmar government in recent years, is taking a more calibrated position on the coup than the West’s black-and-white stance; factoring in the China angle. On the refugee situation too, the Narendra Modi government has asked bordering states in the Northeast to block the inflow of refugees from Myanmar, drawing widespread criticism. While some have still managed to come through from the porous borders and are being pushed out, the central and state governments claim that those injured are being given medical assistance. However, when asked if India has an estimate on how many Myanmar nationals have entered India and what New Delhi’s stance is, Bagchi only said: “We are dealing with it as per our laws and humanitarian considerations.’’||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-234
03-04-2021||India||Nandankanan makes special arrangements to keep animals cool||As the mercury keeps soaring above the 40 degrees Celsius mark in the Odisha capital on a daily basis, the authorities of Nandankanan Zoological Park have made special arrangements to keep the animals cool. Bhubaneswar sizzled at 44.2 degrees Celsius on Wednesday. The temperature in the state capital and several other towns of Odisha has been touching 40 degrees on a regular basis this year. In this backdrop, the Nandankanan authorities have launched a special drive to keep the park’s menagerie both safe and cool during summer with the provision of fruits like watermelon, banana, sugarcane, apple, papaya and cucumber to ward off any possibility of dehydration. While ice slabs and air coolers have been placed in animal and bird enclosures, they are also being regularly sprinkled with water. “Ice cubes are being added in the water meant for animals such as tiger, giraffe and bear which are sensitive to heat,” a zoo official said. “Green shed nets are being put up near the nests of the birds to keep them cool. Similarly water is being sprayed inside the enclosures to keep the surroundings cool,” said the deputy director of the zoo, Bimal Prasanna Acharya. Coolers have been fitted especially in the enclosures of chimpanzees. “All the enclosures have been covered with hay stacks to keep them cool. Water is being sprayed on their roofs regularly,” an official said. Special care is being taken of animals such as monkeys, squirrels and birds which are prone to heat stroke, he said. Adequate water is being stocked in the artificial ponds for elephants to cool themselves, he added. “Coolers have been installed in the enclosures where chimpanzees and Himalayan black bears are housed. We are adding Electral powder, ice and glucose to the drinking water of the animals,” another official said. “We have constituted a team comprising veterinary officials and the team inspects all the enclosures in the afternoon to monitor the health of the animals. Besides, we are keeping a watch on the movement of each animal through CCTVs,” said Acharya. The zoo, which is ranked among one of the best in the country, houses 3,812 animals and birds representing 160 species.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-234
03-04-2021||India||Hooch toll rises to 14 in dry Bihar||The toll in the hooch tragedy in Nawada district of Bihar climbed to 14 on Friday as eight more persons died over the past two days after allegedly consuming spurious liquor. Worried over the deaths, chief minister Nitish Kumar sent a special team from Patna to investigate the incident. The latest deaths took the total hooch toll in the dry state since Holi to 16. The figure could climb further as several people in serious condition are still undergoing treatment in various hospitals in Nawada and Patna. Two persons have lost their eyesight. “I asked my senior officials about whatever is happening. They all are probing the incident. Some officials have gone from here also. “The officials there (in Nawada) are saying something, but what has come out in the newspapers is something else. I have sent a special team from here. I will oversee and investigate everything. It will take all necessary action in the case,” Nitish told reporters on the sidelines of a function. Residents of Kharidi Bigha and Gondapur villages in Nawada, including the family members of the deceased, have alleged that the deaths happened due to the consumption of spurious liquor, but the district administration has been trying to deny the hooch angle. Ramdhani Sao was the latest victim of the alleged hooch tragedy when he breathed his last at a hospital in Nawada on Friday. “He asked for money. I told him he must not spend it to drink. But he came back with liquor and consumed it on Holi. He fell ill the same evening and was hospitalised the next day. He died today (Friday),” said Soni Devi, daughter-in-law of Ramdhani. The villagers have also named a few people who were selling liquor on the occasion of Holi. Nawada district magistrate Yash Pal Meena and superintendent of police D.S. Savlaram held a news conference on Friday to deny that all the deaths were caused due to the consumption of hooch. They asserted that only 10 people have died so far and due to various other reasons. “There have been 10 deaths so far. Of these, we have got information about the cause of death of five persons, who have died of different reasons. “One of them died of a heart attack, two from diarrhoea, another due to epilepsy and one from natural causes and not due to eating or drinking anything,” Savlaram said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-234
03-04-2021||India||Tamil Nadu polls 2021: Covid-struck Santhosh Babu starts digital campaign from hospital bed||The coronavirus struck when Santhosh Babu least needed it — two days after he had filed his nomination papers in the Tamil Nadu Assembly elections. It takes more than a nanometre-sized nuisance, however, to discourage a former civil servant known for innovation and initiative who had resigned last year when he felt his avenues for doing good were getting blocked. So what the 53-year-old bureaucrat turned politician, whom Kamal Haasan’s Makkal Neethi Maiyam (MNM) has fielded from Velachery in Chennai, did was start a digital campaign from his hospital bed, using his mobile. “For the next four days, I will be live on Facebook, YouTube and Twitter to discuss key issues and demonstrate the work I have done. Every day at 11am and 3pm,” he wrote on his Facebook page immediately after being hospitalised on March 19. “Look forward to your support,” added the man who had joined the civil service after graduating as a doctor, and then earned degrees in politics and public management from three foreign countries. “Four days” became nearly a fortnight and his videos quickly went viral, although the Kerala native —  who had been part of the Tamil Nadu IAS cadre —  rued his inability to meet the voter face to face. However, just as he had eventually found himself thwarted as a crusading bureaucrat after 25 years in civil service, Santhosh Babu again came up against shadowy opponents. “The impact of my digital campaign has been very good, but my FB account got locked (on Tuesday evening),” he told The Telegraph on Wednesday. “Many people, particularly from abroad, started ‘reporting’ about my page, saying things like it was not confirming to community standards. Once a large number of people begin to ‘report’ that way, the FB page shuts itself. “My appeal to my voters was very clean, talking about the development of Velachery. Since my digital campaign was going very well, I suspect the IT wings of other political parties could be involved in the coordinated attack.” That’s how far the polite politician will allow himself to go in attacking his political opponents. For instance, he would not campaign on the plank of being shunted out and forced to quit the civil service while battling suspected corruption in a government scheme. His election spiel shuns all negativity; it’s entirely about how Velachery can develop its amenities if it’s willing to back his inventive ideas. Santhosh Babu had graduated as a doctor from the government medical college in Thiruvananthapuram and joined the IAS in 1995. His “passion” to make government “world class using technology and best management” and his commitment to transparency and the public good drove him to learn more. So he earned a Chevening scholarship from the London School of Economics and Political Science, and subsequently studied public management at the Harvard Kennedy School of Government in the US and Lee Kuan Yew School of Public Policy at the National University of Singapore. As a bureaucrat, Santhosh Babu was always restless —  full of ideas and resourceful enough to translate them into reality, social activists who have worked with him say. For instance, as collector of the backward Krishnagiri district over a decade ago, he built a modern stadium in a PPP model by pooling resources and launched the first rural BPO for women in the state, apart from organising numerous women’s self-help groups. He was principal secretary at the IT department when he “stood his ground” against suspected irregularities in a Rs 2,000-crore tender for the BharatNet project that aimed to connect the state’s panchayat offices to the Internet, according to Chennai-based NGO Arappor Iyakkam which tracked the project. The Centre then put the tender on hold. In January 2020, Santhosh Babu was transferred to a relatively minor post, that of director of the Tamil Nadu Handicrafts Development Corporation. He took voluntary retirement on August 22, eight years prematurely. He did it “in protest against the interference of the government in the Rs 2,000-crore BharatNet project” is all he would say in his personal website. He took up a teaching assignment at the Officers IAS Academy in Chennai before Kamal Haasan drafted him as head of his party’s communications wing and made him a general secretary. Kamal Haasan, who is taking on the BJP women’s wing president Vanathi Srinivasan from Coimbatore South, has sought to bring outside talent into his battle to provide a “centrist alternative” to the Dravidian majors DMK and AIADMK. Santhosh Babu’s main rivals in Velachery are J.M.H. Assan Moulana of the Congress, M.K. Ashok of the AIADMK, and M. Chandra Bose of the AMMK, led by Sasikala’s nephew T.T.V. Dhinakaran. Santhosh Babu’s “vision” for Velachery is reflected in an online presentation he has done on creating a corpus with donations from the public and from private companies. It will allow at least three projects —  in health, education and sports, the key human resource areas —  to be attempted in Velachery every month, he has argued. “Last evening I went live in an interaction with voters from my hospital bed when Kamal Haasan was campaigning in Velachery, and my interaction was projected on a big LED screen,” Santhosh Babu told this newspaper. The good news for him is that the Madras Medical College Government Hospital discharged him on Wednesday evening. Santhosh Babu said he would straightaway hit Velachery’s streets to make the most of the four days of campaigning left. “I have been unlucky — despite my online campaign, I haven’t been able to meet people directly. For the remaining four days, I would love to be with them,” he said. His leader Kamal Haasan too seems to prefer face-to-face campaigning —  unlike the political majors he has not been hogging prime-time television.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-234
03-04-2021||India||Dharmadam: Pinarayi Vijayan's Assembly constituency ||A distinct feature of the Dharmadam Assembly constituency where Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan is seeking re-election is the sparse use of his posters and banners. But for neighbourhoods where he addresses corner meetings, there is hardly any publicity material for the CPM leader whose popularity has never been challenged on his home turf comprising Pinarayi village in Kannur district. While none doubts his victory in Dharmadam, Vijayan’s campaign style would suggest that he is leaving no stone unturned while his motorcade weaves through narrow stretches of village roads in the constituency. He had romped home in the 2016 polls by defeating Mambaram Divakaran of the Congress by 36,905 votes. What would have been a cracker of a contest with the other firebrand from Kannur, Lok Sabha member K. Sudhakaran of the Congress, coming close to taking the field in Dharmadam, Vijayan is set for an easy ride with the Congress fielding Kannur district general secretary C. Raghunath after much dilly-dallying. The BJP has nominated former state president C.K. Padmanabhan who hasn’t succeeded in making any mark in the CPM pocket borough. After a brief campaign during the early days of electioneering, Vijayan had set out on a gruelling state tour covering 14 districts in 14 days. He returned to focus on some of the key constituencies in Kannur and Kasaragod districts and then moved to Dharmadam on Thursday where he would spend the rest of the days until the close of campaign on April 4. The 75-year-old comrade who never minces words and is famous for making statements with a straight face has been pressing hard against all forms of communalism and threats to the secular fabric of Kerala. It is perhaps his government’s position against controversial laws such as the Citizenship Amendment Act that has proved to be a magnet for people from the minority communities, especially Muslims. Burqa-clad women have been making a clear statement on their changed political leanings right from the local council elections last year. Their numbers have only grown at LDF events. “We have already passed a resolution against the implementation of the CAA. But I heard a senior BJP leader saying the Centre would implement it in Kerala also. Let me make it very clear once again, we will not allow the CAA to be implemented in Kerala,” Vijayan thundered at a public meeting at Chakkarakkal village in his constituency. While he has been consistent in his attack against the Congress-led United Democratic Front and the BJP during the course of the campaign, Vijayan has been emphasising on secularism. “Small and large organisations fighting for secularism are closely watching the election in Kerala since the LDF government has always stood for secularism and equality,” he said, assuring the gathering, among them a good number of Muslim women, that the LDF would defeat fascist forces. “We need to realise that fascist forces are out to destroy secularism in our country. History shows us that fascist forces first target one group and then attack everyone else. We can now see it in Myanmar where the majority community initially thought only the Rohingya were victimised. But now the regime is after the majority community as well,” Vijayan cautioned the audience listening in rapt attention. In what could be his last election, by his own admission, Vijayan has definitely made a statement wherever he has gone. A few thousands, including a large number of Muslim women, braved the blazing sun at the Ayikkara fishing harbour in Kannur on Monday, hours before Vijayan arrived. The LDF has virtually accorded cult status to Vijayan, featuring only him in posters and other publicity material across the state. While the respective LDF candidates figure in some of the materials, posters and banners describe Vijayan as “Captain”. The group editor of the Madhyamam daily and Media One channel, O. Abdurahman, said the LDF had never projected an individual like this. “There is an impression that Vijayan has been accorded cult status. Even V.S. (Achuthanandan) was not given excess importance although he was a very popular chief minister.” “On the one hand the CPM has preferred young blood over senior leaders like Thomas Isaac, G. Sudhakaran and E.P. Jayarajan, and on the other the party is projecting only Vijayan in a move no party should follow in a democracy,” he added. But voters in Dharmadam seem to have accepted the new phenomenon. “Vijayan has led from the front in all crises and is therefore the main campaigner for the LDF,” said Rasheed P.P., a driver. Vijayan’s role in handling two years of floods that coincided with two outbreaks of the deadly Nipah virus, a cyclone that battered much of the Kerala coast, and the Covid-19 pandemic have won him and his government accolades. The public sentiments that welcome him are similar in other parts of the state where he has attracted massive crowds. Even the coarseness that has developed in his voice due to continuous campaigning in the hot and humid conditions, and the significant stoop owing to age, have not managed to make him take the back seat. The biggest vote catcher of the LDF, Vijayan has been consistently slamming his main rival, the Congress-helmed UDF, and the BJP that is trying to increase its presence in the Assembly from the one seat it won in 2016. Vijayan is not one to get complacent about pollsters forecasting a second consecutive term for the LDF, a rarity in the state that has always alternated between the Left and the Congress, and putting him way ahead in the preference list for potential chief ministers. In fact, he has urged CPM cadres to simply ignore the projections and even the visits of Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and instead engage in grassroots contact programmes to enhance the chances of the LDF. While the Congress and the BJP are raking up the gold smuggling case that roiled the LDF government and led to the arrest of Vijayan’s secretary M. Sivasankar, the issue doesn’t seem to have any significant impact in Dharmadam.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-234
