04-04-2021||India||About 400 Maoists had ambushed jawans killed in Chhattisgarh gun battle, say sources||A group of an estimated 400 Maoists on Saturday ambushed security personnel who were part of a large contingent deployed for a special operation, leading to the killing of at least 22 personnel and injuries to 30 others, official sources said on Sunday. Police recovered bullet-riddled bodies of the 17 jawans in the jungles of Chattisgarh on the day, raising the death toll in the fierce gunbattle with Naxals the previous day -- the biggest massacre in more than a year that also left 31 injured. Police also recovered the bodies of three jawans killed in the encounter, an official said, adding a search operation is on in the forest to trace a missing jawan. Sources said the contingent of about 1,500 troops drawn from CRPF'S specialised jungle warfare unit CoBRA, some teams from its regular battalions, a unit of its Bastariya battalion, the Chhattisgarh Police affiliated District Reserve Guard (DRG) and others had launched a search and destroy operation along the border of Bijapur-Sukma district around noon after they got inputs of some Maoists presence in the area. At least 400 Naxals, an officer said, led by the most wanted Maoist commander and leader of the so-called 'People's Liberation Guerrilla Army(PLGA) battalion no 1'-- Hidma-- and his associate Sujatha are suspected to be behind the Saturday ambush that took place in an area that is a strong-hold of the ultras due to the difficult terrain, large tracts of forests and less number of security forces camps. The Maoists rained bullets from light machine guns (LMGs) and used low-intensity improvised explosive devices (IEDs) to mount the attack that went on till evening. He said that the Maoists carried their dead, estimated to be about 10-12, on tractor trolleys. The total approved strength of security forces personnel for the operation was 790 and the rest were taken as auxiliary and support elements for the long haul operation, the sources said. "Inputs were received that Naxals were undertaking their Tactical Counter Offensive Campaign (TCOC) campaign in the Jagargunda-Jongaguda-Tarrem axis, and hence security forces teams from six camps were deputed to intercept them. A CRPF Inspector is still missing, they said. Officials said while maximum security forces personnel were killed due to bullet shots, one is suspected to have fainted and later died due to dehydration and other issues. "The security forces personnel, especially CoBRA commandos fought very bravely and ensured that the Naxals could not prolong the ambush despite being at an advantage," the officer said. About two dozen sophisticated assault weapons of the killed personnel are also stated to have been looted by the Naxals even as security officials said the search of the area is still on and details are being collected from the ground. The dead include eight from the District Reserve Guard (DRG), seven from the CRPF's Commando Battalion for Resolute Action (CoBRA), six from the Special Task Force and one from the 'Bastariya' battalion of the CRPF," Inspector General of Police (Bastar range) Sundarraj P told PTI. Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday spoke to Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel and took stock of the situation following the incident, officials said. Shah also directed CRPF's Director General Kuldiep Singh to visit Chhattisgarh to assess the situation. He cancelled his election tours in poll-bound Assam after getting to know about the incident. The operation was launched from five places - Tarrem, Usoor and Pamed (in Bijapur), and Minpa and Narsapuram (in Sukma), the official said. The attack comes after the March 23 incident when five DRG personnel were killed as the Maoists blew up a bus carrying the security personnel with an IED in the Narayanpur district of the state. On March 21 last year, 17 security personnel were killed in a Naxal ambush in the Minpa area of Sukma district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-231
04-04-2021||India||Maharashtra imposes weekend lockdown, Modi chairs meeting as Covid cases rise||The Maharashtra government on Sunday announced a weekend lockdown in the state from 8 pm on Friday to 7 am on Monday in a bid to curb the growing numbers of Covid-19 cases in the state, while Prime Minister Narendra Modi directed central forces to rush to the state. Apart from the weekend lockdown, strict restrictions will be in force from Monday 8 pm onwards, Minority Affairs Minister and NCP leader Nawab Malik told reporters after the cabinet meeting. He said that night curfew will continue and prohibitory orders issued under section 144 will be enforced during the day time during the week. "Apart from the weekend lockdown, strict restrictions will be in force from 8 pm tomorrow, under which shopping malls, bars, restaurants, small shops will be open only for take-aways and parcels. Government offices will be allowed to function only at 50 per cent of their capacity," he said. Industries and production sector,vegetable markets will function with Standard Operating Procedures (SoPs) and construction sites will operate if there is accommodation facility for workers, he added. Theatres, drama theatres will be shut, while film and television shootings will continue if there is no crowding. Parks and playgrounds will also be closed, he said. Religious places will have to follow the SoPs, Malik said, adding that that public transport system will remain functional. Mumbai city guardian minister Aslam Shaikh told reporters that work from home will be encouraged for offices, except for insurance, mediclaim, electricity and civic offices. Essential services have been exempted from the existing night curfew, he said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi also chaired a high-level meeting on Sunday, which noted that the situation in Maharashtra, Punjab and Chhattisgarh is of serious concern while highlighting that the western state has contributed 57 percent of the total cases and 47 percent of deaths in the country in the last 14 days. Modi said the five-fold strategy of testing, tracing, treatment, Covid-appropriate behaviour and vaccination if implemented with utmost seriousness and commitment would be effective in curbing the pandemic's spread, according to an official statement. The reasons for the sharp rise in cases could be mainly attributed to the severe decline in compliance of Covid-appropriate behaviour, especially in the use of masks and social distancing, pandemic fatigue and lack of effective implementation of containment measures at the field level, it said. Modi directed that central teams consisting of public health specialists and clinicians be sent to Maharashtra in view of its high caseload and deaths, and to Punjab and Chhattisgarh as well because of the disproportionate number of deaths there, the statement said. A special campaign for Covid-appropriate behaviour with emphasis on 100 percent mask usage, personal hygiene and sanitation at public places, workplaces and health facilities will be organised between April 6-14, the statement said. In the meeting, a brief presentation on the performance of the Covid-19 inoculation drive was also made, and the details of the coverage of vaccination in various groups, performance with respect to other countries and analysis of states' performance were deliberated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-231
04-04-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi promises to pay Rs 6,000 to every poor person in Kerala||As the campaign for the April 6 Assembly polls draws to a close, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday gave a further push to his 'Nyuntam Aay Yojana' (NYAY) to reach out to the voters, promising that every poor person in the State will get Rs 6,000 every month "without fail", if the UDF is voted to power. "The UDF is proposing something revolutionary.Something that has never been tried in any Indian state before," Gandhi told a UDF meeting organised at Vellamunda in Mananthavady. Gandhi, who reached the venue after offering prayers at the ancient Lord Mahavishnu Temple in Thirunelli, said the idea of NYAY was very simple. "The idea is that we are going to put money directly into the hands of the poorest people in Kerala.And not a small amount of money. Every poor person in Kerala is going to get Rs 6,000 a month--Rs 72,000 a year-- without fail every month into his bank account," the Congress leader, who represents Wayanad constituency in the Lok Sabha, said. Gandhi has given an increased focus on the NYAY scheme in his poll meetings, apparently in a bid to counter the ruling Left which is relying heavily on the welfare schemes implemented by it in the last five years to win votes in the crucial polls. In the last five years, the Pinarayi Vijayan-led LDF government has substantially increased the welfare pension for the elderly. The welfare pension was Rs 600 when the UDF rule came to an end in 2016. It is now Rs 1,600 per month, with the left government increasing the amount in multiple phases. The government has also ensured that the pension amount reaches the beneficiaries every month without fail. Bringing up the NYAY idea during the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, Gandhi had described it as ground-breaking, which would mark the beginning of the final assault on poverty. Last week, the former Congress president had said he wanted to "test" the scheme in Kerala because if it works here, he wanted to replicate it in all Congress-ruled states in the country. Earlier in the morning, Gandhi visited Thirunelli temple in Wayanad with which he has an emotional link. An urn containing the ashes of his father and former prime minister Rajiv Gandhi was immersed in Papanasini, a stream connected to a famous temple dedicated to Lord Mahavishnu in the picturesque village, in 1991. He had also offered prayers at the temple last year and during his Lok Sabha election campaign in 2019.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-231
04-04-2021||India||Bodies of 17 more jawans recovered from Chhattisgarh encounter site||Bodies of 17 of the 18 security personnel missing after an encounter with Naxals in Chhattisgarh have been recovered from the site of the skirmish, police said on Sunday. The number of security personnel killed in the encounter has gone up to 22, police said. Eighteen jawans were missing after five security personnel were killed and 30 others injured on Saturday in the fierce gun-battle with Naxals in a forest along the border between Bijapur and Sukma districts in Chhattisgarh, police earlier said. "On Sunday, bodies of 17 missing personnel were recovered during a search operation. With this, total 22 personnel have been killed in the gunfight," a senior police official said. The bodies of three jawans who were reported killed on Saturday were also recovered, he said, adding that the search operation was still on in the forest. Some weapons of the security forces were also missing, the official said. Separate joint teams of security forces, comprising over 2,000 personnel, had launched a major anti-Naxal operation from Bijapur and Sukma districts in the South Bastar forests, considered as the Maoist stronghold, on Friday night. Personnel belonging to the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), its elite unit CoBRA (Commando Battalion for Resolute Action), the District Reserve Guard (DRG) and the Special Task Force (STF) were involved in the operation launched from five places - Tarrem, Usoor and Pamed (in Bijapur), and Minpa and Narsapuram (in Sukma). When the patrolling team that was dispatched from Tarrem was advancing through a forest near Jonaguda, located around 500 km from the state capital Raipur, it was ambushed by cadres of the PLGA (Peoples' Liberation Guerilla Army) battalion of Maoists, leading to the gun-battle. Five security personnel were killed and 30 others received injuries in the gunfight, state Deputy Inspector General (anti-Naxal operation) O P Pal said on Saturday. "Some jawans, both from the police and paramilitary, were reported to be missing following the encounter and efforts are on to trace them, he had said. Out of the injured personnel, seven have been admitted to a hospital in Raipur, while 23 others are undergoing treatment in the Bijapur district hospital. Citing the "ground report", Pal had claimed Maoists suffered a huge loss in the gunfight, but the body of only one woman Naxal could be recovered from the spot amid the heavy exchange of fire. Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday spoke to Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel and took stock of the situation following the killing of five security personnel in an encounter with Naxals in the state, officials said. Shah also directed Director General of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) Kuldiep Singh to visit Chhattisgarh to assess the situation. A home ministry official said Shah spoke to the Chhattisgarh chief minister and took stock of the situation arising after the encounter, Baghel, while briefing Shah about the encounter, said the Naxals have indulged in such acts of violence just to show their presence as people are getting disillusioned with the Maoists ideology and that the extremists will be defeated. A Chhattisgarh government spokesperson said the chief minister told the home minister that the morale of the security forces is high and they will win against the Naxals in this fight. Shah said that the battle against the Naxals will definitely be won as it will be fought together by the central and state governments, the spokesperson said. Earlier on Sunday, Shah condoled the death of security personnel in the encounter, and said their valour will never be forgotten. He also said the government will continue its fight against such enemies of peace and progress. "I bow to the sacrifices of our brave security personnel martyred while fighting Maoists in Chhattisgarh. Nation will never forget their valour. My condolences are with their families. We will continue our fight against these enemies of peace & progress. May the injured recover soon," he said in a tweet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-231
04-04-2021||India||J&K shuts schools for students up to Class 9 till April 18 as Covid cases rise||The Jammu and Kashmir administration on Sunday announced that all schools for students up to Class 9 will remain closed for two weeks from April 5 in view of the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the union territory. Physical classes for students from classes 10 to 12 will also be suspended for a week, Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha's office said in a tweet on Sunday. This comes days after the Jammu and Kashmir administration asked all district magistrates to take a call on the continuation of physical classes in schools amid a spike in Covid-19 cases in the union territory. "In view of rising trend in #Covid19 cases in J&K & likelihood of young children getting infected & transmitting infection in large numbers, ALL classes up to & including Class 9 in schools will be closed for 2 weeks in all schools beginning on Monday, 5 April till 18 April, 21 in J&K," Sinha's office tweeted. Schools for students of classes 10, 11 and 12 will also be closed for a week, it said. "Further, all gatherings for social and customary functions will be restricted to 200 only and after following due Covid SOPs," it added. Covid-19 cases in Jammu and Kashmir have shown an upward trajectory over the last few weeks. The union territory had recorded 501 fresh Covid-19 cases on Saturday. Several schools in many districts were shut in the last few days after many students and teachers tested positive for Covid-19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-231
04-04-2021||India||Search operation on for 18 security personnel missing in Chhattisgarh encounter||A search operation was underway on Sunday to trace 18 security personnel who went missing after a fierce gun-battle with Naxals in a forest along the border of Bijapur-Sukma districts in Chhattisgarh, police said. At least five security personnel were killed and 30 others injured in the three-hour-long encounter that took place on Saturday afternoon near Jonaguda village which falls under Jagargunda police station area (in Sukma). "Following the gunfight, at least 18 security personnel were untraceable. Various police teams have been searching for them in the forest," a senior police official posted in Bastar said on Sunday morning. He also said "chances of their survival are slim, but we are hopeful of finding them alive". Separate joint teams of security forces, comprising over 2,000 personnel, had launched a major anti-Naxal operation from Bijapur and Sukma districts in the South Bastar forests, considered as the Maoist stronghold, on Friday night. Personnel belonging to the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), its elite unit CoBRA (Commando Battalion for Resolute Action), the District Reserve Guard (DRG) and the Special Task Force (STF) were involved in the operation launched from five places - Tarrem, Usoor and Pamed (in Bijapur), and Minpa and Narsapuram (in Sukma). When the patrolling team that was dispatched from Tarrem was advancing through a forest near Jonaguda, located around 500 km from the state capital Raipur, it was ambushed by cadres of the PLGA (Peoples' Liberation Guerilla Army) battalion of Maoists, leading to the gun-battle. Five security personnel were killed and 30 others received injuries in the gunfight, state Deputy Inspector General (anti-Naxal operation) O P Pal said on Saturday. "Some jawans, both from the police and paramilitary, were reported to be missing following the encounter and efforts are on to trace them, he had said. Out of the injured personnel, seven have been admitted to a hospital in Raipur, while 23 others are undergoing treatment in the Bijapur district hospital. Citing the "ground report", Pal had claimed Maoists suffered a huge loss in the gunfight, but the body of only one woman Naxal could be recovered from the spot amid the heavy exchange of fire. Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday condoled the death of security personnel in the encounter, and said their valour will never be forgotten. Shah also said the government will continue its fight against such enemies of peace and progress. "I bow to the sacrifices of our brave security personnel martyred while fighting Maoists in Chhattisgarh. Nation will never forget their valour. My condolences are with their families. We will continue our fight against these enemies of peace & progress. May the injured recover soon," he said in a tweet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-231
04-04-2021||India||India logs 93,249 Covid-19 cases, biggest one-day jump this year||India on Sunday recorded 93,249 new coronavirus infections, the highest single-day rise so far this year, which took the total Covid-19 cases to 1,24,85,509, according to Union health ministry data. This is the biggest daily rise in cases since September 19, when 93,337 fresh infections were recorded. The death toll climbed to 1,64,623 on Sunday with 513 new fatalities, the ministry data updated at 8 am showed. Registering a steady increase for the 25th day in row, the active cases surged to 6,91,597, accounting for 5.54 per cent of the total infections. The recovery rate further dropped to 93.14 per cent, the data stated. The active caseload was at its lowest at 1,35,926 on February 12, comprising 1.25 per cent of the total infections. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease increased to 1,16,29,289, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.32 per cent, according to the data. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research, 24,81,25,908 samples had been tested up to April 3 with 11,66,716 being tested on Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-231
04-04-2021||India||Elderly farmer bleeds in Haryana protest||An elderly farmer was hit on the head and left bleeding on Saturday when police tried to stop protesting farmers from marching into Rohtak city in Haryana to oppose the visit of chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar. A video and pictures of the farmer, Raj Singh, 73, his white kurta soaked in blood, were widely shared on social media. Another farmer and a policeman were injured too. Khattar was to arrive in Rohtak, 70km northwest of Delhi, for a condolence meeting and word had spread that his helicopter would land at Baba Mastnath University in the afternoon. A crowd of protesters, mostly farmers from the district, gathered outside the university to block the chief minister’s path. The Khattar government had used lathis, water cannons and tear smoke against farmers and even dug up the highway to stop them from proceeding towards Delhi, in the last week of November, to demand repeal of three laws that the peasants see as their “death warrant”. The chief minister later branded the protesters, who have been on a sit-in for more than four months, Khalistanis. Furious, the farmers have been resisting visits by Khattar and his ministers across the state. On Saturday, the chief minister’s helicopter landed at Police Lines, 6km from the university. When the farmers heard of this and attempted to breach barricades to move in that direction, stone-throwing began. Mandeep Punia, journalist and activist, tweeted pictures and a video of Raj Singh who said the police had hit him. Punia told The Telegraph: “The crowd was mostly made up of elderly farmers, including women, who had come directly from the fields when they heard of the protest. A lathi-charge began around 2pm when they moved towards the city. Stones were thrown from both sides (of the barricade) but the police started it. The eldest of the lot got it the worst as they were right in front of the police.” He added: “Women farmers later climbed on police buses and raised slogans, condemning the violence. A farmer named Raj Singh (from Sanghi village) was bleeding from the head. As there was no first aid available, farmers tied a turban like a bandage on him. Another elderly farmer (Ishwar, 80, from Basantpur village) was injured in his leg. They were taken to Civil Hospital by the farmers themselves, where their wounds were bandaged properly. Thankfully, no fractures were suffered or stitches required.” A constable has received stitches on his head for an injury from a projectile and is undergoing tests in hospital. Videos show policemen chasing away protesters from the barricade with plastic batons amid light showers of stones. Rohtak superintendent of police Rahul Sharma told this newspaper: “We acted in a most restrained manner and prevented more than 400 protesters from entering the city where there would have been chaos. Most of them had stopped at the barricade. We were negotiating with the rest when some rowdy elements from the protesters’ side began stone pelting that injured both farmers and police personnel. Only minimum force was used to disperse them. There was not any lathi-charge, nor was tear smoke or water cannons used — as is done during riot control.” He added: “They were given first aid in an ambulance stationed at the spot, but refused further treatment saying they would go to the hospital on their own.” Farmers have blocked a part of the highway to Chandigarh in Jind district to protest the police action in Rohtak. On Thursday and Friday, deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala had faced larger protests in Hisar that prevented him from going to his home in the city or completing a scheduled visit to the grain market.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-231
04-04-2021||India||Covid: Probe after woman gets 2 jabs from nurse on call in Kanpur||An auxiliary nursing midwife, while talking over the phone, allegedly administered two shots of Covid-19 vaccine to a woman at a primary health centre in Akbarpur area of Kanpur Rural district, officials said on Saturday. As the news reached the woman’s family members, they created an uproar at the centre and later senior officials, including the district magistrate and chief medical officer, were informed about the alleged negligence. The family members told reporters that Kamlesh Kumari, a woman in her 50s, had gone to the Marhauli primary health centre on Thursday to get her first vaccine shot where ANM Archana ended up giving her two doses. When Kumari inquired about the two injections, Archana reprimanded her instead of apologising for the mistake, they alleged. The family members said after the double dose of vaccination, Kumari developed mild swelling in her hand, although, no serious symptoms were reported. District magistrate Jitendra Pratap Singh told PTI that he had taken serious cognisance of the negligence. The chief medical officer (Rajesh Katiyar) has been asked to inquire about the incident and submit a report to him by Saturday evening, he added. He said further comments over the incident would be made only after the probe report was submitted. Kanpur Rural chief medical officer Rajesh Katiyar said a senior doctor had been asked to inquire about the matter and submit a report. The report would be submitted to the DM who will take action on his end, Katiyar added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-231
04-04-2021||India||Covid-19: Vaccination in slow lane as spike nears peak||India on Saturday recorded over 89,000 new Covid-19 cases with the epidemic’s second wave poised to breach the earlier peak of 97,894 cases and at least five states reporting more cases than they had last year. Amid the sharp rise in daily counts, the country’s Covid-19 vaccination campaign has moved slower than expected with a conspicuous low participation from private hospitals and about 10 million people immunised from the target of around 350 million. In Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, and Punjab, the counts of daily new cases have exceeded the peaks last year. Maharashtra, for instance, on Saturday recorded over 47,000 new cases compared with its peak count of about 25,000 last September. Gujarat reported 2,600 cases, nearly 1,000 higher than its previous peak count. “We’re seeing the epidemic’s full blast — the speed of the current growth suggests the peak counts this time will cross the earlier peak within days,” said T. Sundaraman, a community medicine specialist and former director of the National Health Systems Resource Centre. Health officials have attributed the growing epidemic to public laxity in wearing masks and avoiding crowds and inadequate containment and public health measures by local state health authorities, but some medical researchers suspect it may also be driven by fast-spreading infectious variants. The 89,129 new cases on Saturday pushed India’s count of Covid patients to over 658,000. Maharashtra has shown a nine-fold increase in the number of active cases over the past two months — from 42,000 on February 3 to over 3,91,000 on Saturday. Health officials are unhappy over what one senior adviser to the Centre described as a “lukewarm” response from the private sector to the vaccination campaign that is intended to protect as many people as possible through two doses of vaccines. But until Saturday, nearly 80 days since vaccination began, only about 10 million people have received two doses of the vaccines. The campaign is now open to all people above 45 years, around 350 million people. “We had around 45,000 government hospitals and around 5,500 private hospitals participating in the campaign today,” a senior medical adviser to the vaccination campaign told The Telegraph. “We had expected over 20,000 private hospitals to join the campaign.” However, the 50,000-plus centres on Saturday administered a record 7 million doses, which, the adviser said, is encouraging. “If such a pace is sustained, we should be able to inoculate over 200 million people within a month,” the adviser said. Health officials have asserted there is no shortage of vaccine supplies in India. “Our understanding is that the Serum Institute of India can produce between 70 million and 100 million doses of Covishield a month while Bharat Biotech can deliver around 10 million,” an official said. The Centre had earlier this year, amid a strong demand from sections of the private hospital industry, opened vaccinations anytime of the day in the private sector. “They need to be asked why they are not coming forward now,” the adviser said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-231
04-04-2021||India||Rakesh Tikait: Attack strengthens our resolve to intensify struggle||Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait claimed on Saturday that the attack on his convoy of vehicles in Rajasthan’s Alwar was “pre-planned by BJP workers” and said it should serve as a reminder to the farmers protesting against the three new farm laws of the Centre about the travails and challenges they are going to face in the days to come. Addressing a kisan mahapanchayat at Bhaimalkheda village in Uttar Pradesh’s Aligarh district, Tikait said such attacks “are, in fact, strengthening our resolve to further intensify our struggle, which is a battle for our existence”. After the mahapanchayat, he told reporters: “We are mentally prepared for more such incidents.” Stones were allegedly pelted at the convoy of Tikait in Rajasthan on Friday, damaging the rear windshield of his car. Police detained a student leader, who the BKU claimed belonged to the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP), the student wing of the RSS. The BKU accused the BJP of being behind the attack. Tikait issued a call at the mahapanchayat to the protesting farmers to be mentally prepared to continue with their agitation at least till the end of the year, when they would taste victory. He urged them to be mobile phone savvy so that they can be active on social media. Tikait, who held a mahapanchayat in Aligarh for the first time after the farmers’ agitation was launched in November last year, alleged that corporates had fully entrenched themselves in the present ruling dispensation, including the Prime Minister’s Office. He said how else could one explain the construction of huge grain depots and godowns in several parts of the country “even before the controversial farm laws came to existence”. The BKU leader said this itself provides conclusive evidence of the government’s intentions. He warned the farmers that even more draconian measures are on the anvil as far as the farm laws are concerned, including stringent regulations regarding crop seeds. He said the three laws would make it impossible for the farmers to enjoy the right to use the seeds of their choice and frustrate them to such an extent that they would be compelled to sell their land to corporates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-232
04-04-2021||India||BJP leader Brijesh Singh killed on Yogi turf||Unidentified assassins shot dead a local BJP leader on an Uttar Pradesh highway late on Friday night, continuing the trend of Sangh parivar activists and leaders getting murdered on Yogi Adityanath’s watch. The murder of Brijesh Singh, 52, BJP candidate for Narayanpur village panchayat chief, came in the chief minister’s home district of Gorakhpur, about 10km from his spiritual seat in Gorakhpur city. Brijesh was returning home to Moglaha on his motorcycle after campaigning daylong for the panchayat polls when he was shot in the head and chest. His supporters, who were following about half a kilometre behind, took him to the BRD Medical College, where he was declared dead on arrival. Brijesh, a former panchayat chief of Narayanpur, couldn’t contest in 2016 because it was declared a reserved seat. It has been re-earmarked as a general seat this time. Senior superintendent of police Dinesh Kumar P said the police were trying to identify the killers and ascertain the motive. Brijesh’s supporters held a dharna at the gate of the medical college, questioning the law-and-order situation in the state. “The killers are so confident that they are committing murders in the chief minister’s home district,” one of them, Rajesh Singh, said. “He (Brijesh) was a powerful leader and campaigned for party candidates in Lok Sabha and Assembly elections. Unfortunately, he wasn’t safe under our own party’s rule.” Over a dozen Sangh parivar leaders have been murdered in the state during Adityanath’s four-year-old rule. In most cases, the police have denied any political angle and suggested land disputes or illicit love affairs as the motive. Among the victims were Dayashankar Gupta, 45, BJP divisional vice-president in Tundla town, Firozabad, who was shot dead last October. Seven persons were arrested. Sanjay Singh Bhadauria, 45, a doctor and the Hindu Yuva Vahini’s district vice-president, who ran a small hospital in Bareilly town, was stabbed to death last September. Two persons were arrested. Sanjay Khokhar, RSS member and former BJP president of the Baghpat unit, was shot in his agricultural field last August. Six arrests were made. Ranjeet Bachchan, Vishwa Hindu Mahasabha president, was shot by motorcycle-borne assailants in Lucknow’s Hazratganj area in February last year. Three persons were arrested. Kamlesh Tiwari, leader of the Hindu Mahasabha and national president of the Hindu Samaj Party, was assassinated in his Lucknow office in October 2019. Three youths were arrested.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-232
04-04-2021||India||Venkaiah Naidu urges youth  to fight against gender discrimination||Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu on Saturday urged the younger generation to pledge to fight against gender discrimination. “Our youth should be at the forefront of fighting all social evils like casteism, communalism, corruption, and violence,” Naidu said while addressing the students at the 50th convocation ceremony of Utkal University, the premier educational institute of the state. Naidu suggested that the university should take up research on issues faced by tribals and actively contribute to policy formation for their development and well-being. He said disaster management should be made an integral part of education to prepare us better for calamities. Terming the youth as the key for change, Naidu urged the students to nurture their passion, perseverance and tenacity and be always open to learning for a successful and fulfilling life ahead. At the event, five Doctor Honoris Causa were conferred upon eminent Odias such as RBI governor Shaktikanta Das, Girish Chandra Murmu, comptroller and auditor general of India and chairman of the UN panel of external auditors, Justice Sanju Panda of Orissa High Court, Dr Ajit Kumar Mohanty, director of Bhabha Atomic Research Centre, and Bijaya Sahoo, adviser to Odisha Adarsha Vidyalaya Sangathan. Utkal University Chancellor Prof. Ganeshi Lal conferred the degrees upon the PhD awardees and administered the oath to them. Vice-Chancellor Prof. Sabita Acharya presented the university report. A total of 40 PhD degrees and 90 gold medals/endowment prizes were awarded at the ceremony.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-232
04-04-2021||India||Centre objects to Biju logo  for scheme||The Centre has asked the Odisha government not to use the logo of Biju Pucca Ghar Yojana (BPGY), a state scheme, in the houses constructed under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana-Gramin (PMAY-G), a centrally sponsored scheme. The Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana aims to provide housing for all by 2022. Formerly known as the Indira Awas Yojana, it was restructured and launched as Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (Gramin) on April 1, 2016. Under the scheme, a beneficiary is entitled to get Rs 1.20 lakh in plain areas and Rs 1.30 lakh in hilly areas. The cost of assistance is shared between the Centre and the state government in the ratio of 90:10 in hilly areas and 60:40 in plain areas. The BPGY of the Odisha government aims to provide pucca houses to all eligible rural households living in kuccha houses. The scheme logo bears the face of former chief minister and Naveen’s father Biju Patnaik. In reply to a letter regarding co-branding of PMAY-G houses, Union rural development secretary Nagendra Nath Sinha requested Odisha chief secretary Suresh Mahapatra to use only the official logo of the central scheme. Sinha said the PMAY-G logo was available on the AWAASSoft, an online system used for management of the scheme. “I wish to reiterate here that the scheme PMAY-G has been approved by the Union cabinet as a centrally sponsored scheme and approved as PMAY-G for the budget in Parliament. The scheme is to be implemented in its original form and under the name of PMAY-G. “The scheme is to be implemented as such and under the agreed funding pattern, and no other name can be appended. In view of the same, and as informed earlier that the ministry had conveyed to the states/UTs (Union Territories) in the past to use the only the official logo of PMAY-G,” Sinha said in the letter. He pointed out that the contribution of the minimum state share was a commitment by the state government for the implementation of a centrally sponsored scheme but it did not confer the right on the state government to use any logo other than the PMAY-G. “This will also lead to misinterpretation of the scheme among the PMAY-G beneficiaries about the benefits of the scheme,” Sinha added. The issue of the logo has been contentious with the ruling Biju Janata Dal government apparently looking to take credit for the central housing scheme which has brought it face to face with the BJP, its main political rival in the state. In February 2020, panchayati raj and drinking water minister Pratap Jena had told the Assembly that there was nothing wrong in using the BPGY logo on houses constructed under the PMAY-G. The BJP, however, has been opposing such rebranding of central schemes by the state government and accused it of trying to mislead the people for the sake of political gains. The BJP has also accused the state government of taking undue credit for providing rice to the poor at Re 1 as the bulk of the subsidy for the scheme came from the Centre.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-232
04-04-2021||India||Odisha Assembly: Speaker Surjya Narayan Patro suspends three BJP MLAs for unruly behaviour ||Odisha Assembly Speaker Surjya Narayan Patro on Saturday suspended three BJP legislators for unruly behaviour after they allegedly hurled shoes, headphones, papers, pens and dustbins at his podium in unprecedented scenes inside the House. The Opposition legislators created a ruckus in the House after the Speaker refused to entertain an adjournment motion for a discussion on mining and allowed the government to move some bills that were passed in haste amidst the pandemonium. The three MLAs — Bishnu Charan Sethi, Jay Narayan Mishra and Mohan Majhi — will remain suspended for the rest of the budget session. The action of the MLAs was condemned by government chief whip Pramila Mallick. “BJP MLAs Bishnu Sethi, Jay Narayan Mishra and Mohan Majhi threw shoes, chappals, dustbins and earphones at the Speaker’s podium. This is most unfortunate. Action will definitely be taken in the matter. They are only looking for publicity by indulging in such behaviour. But such attempts will not be successful. People will reject them again,” said Mallick. The BJP lawmakers on the other hand admitted to having seen shoes, earphones and papers being hurled at the Speaker’s podium but they said they had no idea who was responsible for the incident. The incident took place when the Opposition Congress brought an adjournment motion to discuss corruption in mining activities (mining business determining the politics in Odisha). All hell broke loose when the Speaker refused to admit the motion for discussion. Both the Congress and BJP MLAs accused the Speaker of adopting a partisan attitude. The situation turned ugly when an amendment to the Odisha Lokayukta bill was passed. The Opposition MLAs trooped into the well of the House and created a ruckus. Suddenly chappals and other articles were thrown at the podium of the Speaker from the Opposition benches. Senior BJP legislator Sethi told The Telegraph: “We wa­nted a discussion on the issue. But the Speaker refused to entertain the demand. He was not able to reply convincingly to why he had rejected the motion for discussion. When the leader of the Opposition wanted to speak, he was not allo­wed. We condemned the undemocratic attitude of the Sp­e­a­ker. I know that pens, dustbins and chappals have been thro­wn but I don’t know who did this. The decision to susp­end us is an undemocratic one.” Senior party MLA Mishra told this newspaper: “The Speaker has been indulging in undemocratic practices. The leader of the Opposition was not allowed to speak. This is not way the Assembly should be run. Rules have been cast to the wind. We were not given an opportunity to put forth our points.” Congress legislature party leader Narasingha Mishra said: “Whatever happened in the Assembly today was unfortunate. It is against the democratic norms and practices. I am condemning it. The Congress had brought the motion. Without any reasons, it was rejected. The Congress protested. As per the democratic norms, when the House was not in order, no bill should be have been put up for discussion. The government passed some bills in a hurry. I also condemned it.” Before taking action against the MLAs, Speaker Patro had called for the video footage of the entire incident. Sources revealed that after examining the footage, he decided to suspend the MLAs. Protesting against the decision, the BJP legislators walked out and staged a dharna near the Mahatma Gandhi statue inside the Assembly. Sources said the ongoing budget session of the Assembly may end on Saturday night.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-232
