05-04-2021||India||Kangana's plea on Javed Akhtar defamation suit dismissed ||A sessions court in Mumbai on Monday dismissed an application filed by Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut challenging the proceedings initiated against her by a magistrate's court in connection with a defamation complaint lodged by veteran lyricist Javed Akhtar. Additional Sessions Judge S U Baghele said the plea filed by the applicant (Ranaut) is dismissed. Ranaut (34) had sought the sessions court to quash the legal proceedings and summons issued by the magistrate's court in suburban Andheri in the defamation complaint lodged against her by Akhtar. Akhtar (76) had filed the complaint in the magistrate's court in last November claiming the actor had made defamatory statements against him in a television interview, which allegedly damaged his reputation. The sessions court in Dindoshi in Mumbai had on April 3 reserved its order on the application filed by Ranaut. In her application, Ranaut had challenged the issuance of the process and the legality and validity of the February 1, 2021 order passed by the magistrate and the subsequent action of issuing a bailable warrant against her for failing to appear before the court. Ranaut's advocate Rizwan Siddiquee had argued in the sessions court that as per provisions of section 200 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC), a magistrate has to first examine and record the statements of the complainant and the witnesses before issuance of notice or proceedings in criminal complaints. Siddiquee claimed that since the magistrate's court had not recorded the statements of the witnesses, it had vitiated the procedure. Ranaut in her plea had sought the sessions court to suspend and quash the proceedings initiated against her. Advocate Jay Bharadwaj, appearing for Akhtar, had opposed the application and submitted that the order passed by the magistrate did not warrant interference. On March 1, magistrate R R Khan had issued a bailable warrant against Ranaut after she failed to appear before the court as per earlier directions. Ranaut later sought cancellation of the warrant before the magistrate. The court on March 25 cancelled the warrant after Ranaut furnished a cash bail of Rs 20,000 and a surety of Rs 15,000. In his complaint, Akhtar claimed that Ranaut had made defamatory comments against him in an interview by dragging his name while referring to a "coterie" existing in Bollywood, following the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput in June last year. The magistrate had directed the Mumbai police to carry out a preliminary probe into the complaint. In February, the police submitted a report to the court saying an offence of defamation was made out against Ranaut.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-229
05-04-2021||India||Modi to interact with CMs on Thursday over rising Covid cases, vaccination drive||Amid a surge in coronavirus cases, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will interact with chief ministers on Thursday to discuss the COVID-19 situation and the ongoing vaccination drive, sources said Monday. Modi's last interaction with chief ministers was on March 17 during which he had expressed concern over the rise in COVID-19 cases in parts of the country and called for "quick and decisive" steps to check the "emerging second peak". Coronavirus cases in India hit a record daily high since the outbreak of the pandemic with 1,03,558 new infections pushing the nationwide COVID-19 tally to 1,25,89,067, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. At a high-level meeting with senior officials, Prime Minister Modi had on Sunday reviewed the COVID-19 situation and vaccination exercise in the country amid the "alarming rate of growth" in infections and deaths. Modi had said the five-fold strategy of testing, tracing, treatment, COVID-appropriate behaviour and vaccination, if implemented with utmost seriousness and commitment, would be effective in curbing the spread of the pandemic, according to an official statement that was released after the meeting. The reasons for the sharp rise in cases could be mainly attributed to the severe decline in compliance of COVID-appropriate behaviour, especially in the use of masks and social distancing, pandemic fatigue and lack of effective implementation of containment measures at the field level, according to the statement. A special campaign for COVID-appropriate behaviour with emphasis on 100 percent mask usage, personal hygiene and sanitation at public places, workplaces and health facilities will be organised between April 6-14, the statement had said. In the meeting, the prime minister had highlighted the need to enforce the COVID-appropriate behaviour in the coming days and ensure the availability of beds, testing facilities and timely hospitalisation. The principal secretary to the prime minister, cabinet secretary, home secretary, chairperson (Empowered group on Vaccine Administration) and health secretary besides other senior officials attended the meeting on Sunday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-229
05-04-2021||India||Congress rakes up Rafale after French media claims of Euro 1.1 million 'commission'||The Congress on Monday sought a thorough probe in the Rafale defence deal and demanded answers from Prime Minister Narendra Modi, after a French media report claimed that Euro 1.1 million was paid to a "middleman" by the aircraft manufacturer. Chief Congress spokesperson Randeep Surjewala told a press conference here that the French news portal's report has proved that Rahul Gandhi's oft-repeated allegations of corruption in the deal were correct. While there was no immediate response from the BJP or the government on the charges, they have in the past denied any irregularities in the country's biggest defence deal. Surjewala said as per the French portal's report, an investigation conducted by the French Anti-Corruption Agency (AFA)' has revealed that after signing of the deal in 2016, Rafale's manufacturer Dassault allegedly paid Euro 1.1 million to a middleman -- Defsys Solutions -- which is an Indian company. "Does it now not require a full and independent investigation into India's biggest defence deal to find out as to how much bribery and commission in reality, if any, was paid and to whom in the Indian government," he asked at a press conference. "Will Prime Minister Narendra Modi answer to the nation now?" he asked. Surjewala said this amount was shown as expenditure by Dassault as "gifts to clients". The Congress leader said that the Defence Procurement Procedure (DPP) as also the stated Indian government policy envisage there will be an Integrity Clause in every defence purchase contract which clearly states that there can be no middleman or payment of commission or bribe. Surjewala said that as per the DPP, any evidence of middleman or commission or bribery has serious penal consequences including the banning of the supplier, cancellation of contract, registration of an FIR and imposition of heavy financial penalties on the company. "Has it not vitiated the Rafale deal entailing imposition of heavy financial penalties on Dassault, banning of the company, registration of an FIR and other penal consequences," he asked. He asked whether the payment of Euro 1.1 million shown by Dassault as 'Gifts to Clients' in reality a commission paid to the middleman for the Rafale deal. "How can 'middleman' and 'Payment of Commission' be permitted in a 'government-to-government Defence Contract' or in any Defence procurement in India in violation of the mandatory Defence Procurement Procedure," he asked.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-229
05-04-2021||India||AAP tells govt to accelerate inoculation drive in India before sending Covid jabs outside||The AAP questioned the Centre for sending COVID-19 vaccines across the world instead of further accelerating the inoculation drive within the country, claiming it will take at least 15 years to vaccinate the entire population of India at this rate. Addressing a press conference here, AAP spokesperson Raghav Chadha questioned the reason for "exporting" vaccines and not supplying it to the people in India first. "Vaccination doses have been exported to 84 countries. The amount exported is higher than the number of vaccine doses given to the people in India. Should we care about people from our own country or from other countries?" Chadha said. "Where has the Centre's vaccine nationalism gone? The AAP demands an increase in the rate of vaccinations against COVID-19 so that each and every Indian can get vaccinated," he said. He further claimed that it will take 15 years to vaccinate the entire population of India if vaccination drive continues at the current pace. "Some scientists say that to contain the virus at least 70 percent of the population has to be vaccinated. It will take 10 years to inoculate 70 per cent of the population of the country if the vaccination continues at the current pace while at the current pace, vaccinating everyone in the country will take about 15 years," he said. In India, cumulatively, 7,91,05,163 vaccine doses have been administered through 12,31,148 sessions, as per the provisional report till 7 am. These include 90,09,353 healthcare workers (HCWs) who have taken the 1st dose, 53,43,493 HCWs who have taken the 2nd dose, 97,37,850 frontline workers (FLWs) who have received the 1st dose, and 41,33,961 FLWs who have taken the 2nd dose.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-229
05-04-2021||India||Chhattisgarh anti-naxal operation was poorly designed, says Rahul||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday alleged that the operation against naxals in Chhattisgarh, in which 22 security personnel were killed, was "incompetently" executed and "poorly designed". "Our jawans are not cannon fodder to be martyred at will," Gandhi said on Twitter and demanded that each Indian jawan be given body armour for protection. Out of the 22 fatalities in the Saturday naxal attack in the state, the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) lost eight men, including seven CoBRA commandos, while one jawan is from the Bastariya battalion, eight from the DRG and five from the Special Task Force. "No Indian jawan should face an enemy without body armour in the 21st century. It needs to be made available to every soldier," the Congress leader said. Citing a media report quoting CRPF Director General Kuldeep Singh as saying there was no intelligence failure in the operation and an equal number of ultras were killed, Gandhi said, "If there was no intelligence failure then a 1:1 death ratio means it was a poorly designed and incompetently executed operation." Officials on Sunday had said that 30 security personnel were also injured in the ambush by naxals. The security personnel were ambushed by naxals when they were out on a combing operation in a forest along the border of the Bijapur and Sukma districts of the state. Director General Singh had acknowledged that his personnel were "surprised and ambushed" during the attack on Saturday that lasted several hours. Other officials in the know of the developments said the forces may have been waylaid by the naxals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-229
05-04-2021||India||Maharashtra home minister steps down after HC orders CBI probe||Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh resigned on Monday after the Bombay High Court ordered a CBI probe into the allegations of extortion against him by former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh. Deshmukh submitted his resignation letter to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, NCP minister Nawab Malik told reporters. Deshmukh also tweeted a copy of the letter, in which he said the high court had passed an order for a preliminary probe by the CBI into the petition filed by advocate Jayshri Patil into the allegations. "I don't have the moral right to continue in office after the court order.I have decided to quit. Kindly relieve me from my post," Deshmukh's resignation letter said. After the court order, Deshmukh met NCP president Sharad Pawar and expressed his desire to step down as he felt it was inappropriate to continue in office after the CBI steps in, Malik said. "Deshmukh went to hand over the letter to Thackeray after Pawar gave his "green signal" to quit," Malik said. Singh's allegations are baseless but the party respects the court and hence the minister will quit, Malik said, adding the truth will come out. "The state government has already ordered a probe by a retired judge into the claims but we respect the judiciary and after the court orders, Deshmukh himself said he doesn't wish to continue," Malik said, referring to his party colleague. After Deshmukh's resignation the home department will be with the chief minister, who would decide after consulting the MVA allies on who would be the new home minister, he said. There is speculation that Dilip Walse Patil, another NCP minister, may get the Home portfolio. State BJP chief Chandrakant Patil said he is happy that Deshmukh has quit, adding there will be many "shocking revelations" in the CBI probe. "Those who make mistakes should be punished or else democracy won't be strengthened. Many skeletons will tumble out after the 15-day CBI preliminary parobe," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-230
05-04-2021||India||CoBRA commando abducted by Maoists, search on ||Security agencies are working to ascertain a claim made by naxals that they abducted a CoBRA commando after the ambush in Chhattisgarh on Saturday that left at least 22 security personnel dead, official sources said. A top officer in the security establishment said that they have "reasons to believe" that this claim, made over phone on Sunday evening to a journalist based in Bijapur by a purported Maoist group, is true. "We have not been able to locate commando Rakeshwar Singh Minhas of the 210th CoBRA battalion till now. However, we do not have concrete evidence to substantiate the claim made by some naxal elements that he has been taken away by them," a senior officer told PTI. He said multiple units of the security forces are still out in the jungles to look for the commando who hails from Jammu, and also to intercept movement of the ultras. Constable Minhas was with the unit that went out for the anti-Naxal operation on Saturday morning. His friend, another officer said, was killed in the ambush in which 22 troopers were killed and 31 others injured. The Commando Battalion for Resolute Action (CoBRA) is the specialised unit of the CRPF that was raised in 2009 to undertake intelligence-based operations against Maoists and insurgents in the north east. Out of the 22 fatalities in the Saturday naxal attack, the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) lost eight men, including seven CoBRA commandos, while one jawan is from the Bastariya battalion, eight from the DRG and five from the Special Task Force. Senior CRPF officers, state police officials along with Union Home Minister Amit Shah and Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel are in Jagdalpur to review the situation in the aftermath of the deadly attack. Over 10 rebels killed Senior officers claimed more than 10 Maoists had been killed in Saturday’s encounter but other sources said the police had found the body of a lone rebel — a woman. The Maoists are known to carry away their dead and injured. Unofficial accounts by CRPF and state police sources suggested the insurgents had laid a trap for the forces in the middle of a five-pronged anti-Maoist offensive, but inspector-general of police (Bastar Range) Sundarraj P dismissed any “meticulously planned Naxal ambush”. “The security forces fought bravely and inflicted a heavy blow on the ultras during the face-off,” PTI quoted Sundarraj as saying. ‘Waylaid’ Sources said five teams totalling 2,000-plus security personnel had on Friday night launched a concerted operation in the Maoist-hit Bijapur and Sukma districts after learning that rebels led by the dreaded Madvi Hidma had gathered in the forests in large numbers. The operation was launched from five places — Tarrem, Usoor and Pamed in Bijapur, and Minpa and Narsapuram in Sukma. While a team was advancing through the forests near Jonaguda, around 500km from state capital Raipur, it was ambushed by some 250 Maoists on Saturday afternoon, a CRPF officer said. He said the forces were scattered and trapped along a 2km stretch of forest. A senior police officer gave PTI a somewhat different account. He said some 400 Maoists had strategically positioned themselves on a hillock in front of Tekalguda village and around it. The patrolling team from Tarrem came under heavy fire, prompting some of them to move to what appeared a deserted village, where the Maoists lay in wait for them. Visuals from the spot showed slain jawans lying in the fields and on the village streets, PTI added. It quoted an eyewitness as saying the jawans' bodies had bullet injuries and gashes inflicted by sharp weapons. The Maoists fled with the weapons, bullet-proof jackets and the shoes of the dead troops, sources said. ‘Lapses’ Sources in the security establishment said that initial reports suggested an intelligence failure and poor leadership on the part of the CRPF, which reports to Union home minister Amit Shah. “The commanders did not handle their men properly and counter the ambush,” a security official said, requesting anonymity. “The Maoist leadership is said to have been giving arms training to its cadres for the past few months in the jungles. They were well prepared and our jawans walked into the trap and were slaughtered. Who is accountable for this intelligence and operational failure?” He added: “Has this government fixed any accountability for the gross intelligence failures in the Pulwama massacre and the Chinese intrusion in Ladakh? These killings are likely to go the same way.” CRPF chief Kuldiep, who rushed to Chhattisgarh from Delhi, denied any intelligence or operational failure on the part of the country’s top anti-Maoist agency.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-230
05-04-2021||India||HC asks CBI to probe Param Bir's allegations against Deshmukh||The Bombay High Court on Monday directed the CBI to conduct a preliminary inquiry within 15 days into allegations of corruption and misconduct levelled by former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh against Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh. A bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G S Kulkarni said this was an "extraordinary" and "unprecedented" case that warranted an independent inquiry. The court said since the state government had already ordered for a probe by a high-level committee into the matter, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) need not immediately register an FIR in the case. It said the CBI must complete the preliminary inquiry within 15 days and then take a decision on further course of action in the case. The bench delivered its verdict on a bunch of public interest litigations (PILs) and writ petitions seeking several reliefs and a CBI probe into the matter. The pleas had been filed by Singh himself, city-based lawyers Jayshree Patil and Ghanshyam Upadhyay, and local teacher Mohan Bhide. The HC disposed of all the pleas on Monday. "The CBI's director is allowed to conduct a preliminary inquiry. Such preliminary inquiry be ordered in accordance with the law and be concluded within 15 days. Once the preliminary inquiry is complete, director CBI (will) be at discretion to (decide on) further course of action," the high court said. The HC had last Wednesday reserved its verdict on the pleas following a day-long hearing. "We agree that this is an unprecedented case before the court...Deshmukh is Home Minister who leads the police...There has to be an independent inquiry...But, the CBI need not register an FIR immediately," the court said on Monday. On March 25, Singh filed a criminal public interest litigation seeking a CBI probe against Deshmukh who, he claimed, had asked police officers, including suspended cop Sachin Waze, to extort Rs 100 crore from bars and restaurants. The remaining PILs were filed around the same time. The minister has denied any wrongdoing. Singh's counsel Vikram Nankani had argued that the entire police force was demoralised and was working under pressure due to the interference of politicians. The HC had then asked why Singh did not lodge an FIR against Deshmukh, if he was aware of the alleged wrongdoing committed by the minister. Patil, one of the other petitioners, had told the HC that she lodged a complaint against both Deshmukh and Singh at a local police station. Advocate General Ashutosh Kumbhakoni, who appeared for the state government, had urged the HC to dismiss the pleas. Singh had initially approached the Supreme Court, alleging he was transferred from the post of Mumbai police commissioner after he complained to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and other senior leaders about the "corrupt malpractices" of Deshmukh. The apex court had termed the matter as quite serious, but asked Singh to approach the high court. Singh then filed the PIL in the HC, reiterating his allegations against Deshmukh and seeking an "immediate, unbiased, impartial" probe by the CBI against Deshmukh, who is an NCP leader. The Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress share power in Maharashtra.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-230
05-04-2021||India||Shah pays homage to security men killed in Chhattisgarh Maoist attack||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Monday said that the government is determined to take the ongoing fight against the unrest created by naxals to its logical conclusion. The minister, who is on a visit to Chhattisgarh, made the comment after paying tributes to the 22 security personnel who were killed by naxals in the state on Saturday. "Paid tributes to the brave security personnel who were martyred while fighting the naxalites at Jagdalpur in Chhattisgarh," he said in a tweet in Hindi. "The country will never forget your bravery and sacrifice. The whole country stands behind the bereaved families. We are determined to take the ongoing fight against the unrest created by the naxals to its logical conclusion," said Shah. The minister will chair a meeting at the Police Coordination Centre in Jagdalpur to review the security situation arising out of Saturday's incident and also meet some of the injured security personnel in hospitals, an official said. Thirty security personnel were injured in the ambush by naxals and were admitted to different hospitals in the state, officials had said on Sunday. After arriving in Chhattisgarh's Jagdalpur town from Delhi, Shah paid his last respects at the Police Lines here, where the mortal remains of 14 personnel were kept in coffins draped with the national flag. Besides Shah, Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel and other dignitaries also laid wreaths on the coffins. This is Shah's first visit to the Bastar region of the state after assuming charge of Union home minister, an official said. The review meeting in Jagdalpur, will be attended by Chief Minister Baghel, senior officials of the state police and the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), he said. Shah will then leave for the Basaguda camp of the CRPF in Bijapur in a chopper and will have an interaction and lunch with the CRPF and state police personnel there, he said. Security personnel were ambushed by naxals when they were out on a combing operation in a forest along the Bijapur and Sukma districts of the state. Out of the total 22 fatalities, the CRPF lost eight men, including seven commandos of the CoBRA battalion (CRPF's elite unit) and one jawan of the Bastariya battalion, eight of the other deceased were from the District Reserve Guard (DRG) and six from the Special Task Force (STF). One CRPF inspector is still missing, officials said. The home minister on Sunday vowed to give a befitting response to the Naxals and said that the battle against the extremists will be won through joint efforts by the central and state governments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-230
05-04-2021||India||Fresh Covid cases cross one lakh mark for the first time in India||Coronavirus cases in India hit a record daily high since the the outbreak of the pandemic with 1,03,558 new infections pushing the nationwide COVID-19 tally to 1,25,89,067, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. The single-day rise in cases surpassed the earlier peak of 97,894 infections reported on September 17, last year, making it the highest so far. The death toll increased to 1,65,101 with 478 daily new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. Last year, it took 76 days for the single-day rise in coronavirus cases in India to reach the then peak of 97,894 from 20,000. However, this time the daily rise in cases have galloped at a much faster pace taking just 25 days (March 10 to April 4) to cross the grim milestone of one-lakh infections. Registering a steady increase for the 26th day in row, the active cases have increased to 7,41,830 comprising 5.89 per cent of the total infections, while the recovery rate has further dropped to 92.80 per cent, the data stated. The active caseload was at its lowest at 1, 35,926 on February 12 comprising 1.25 per cent of the total infections. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,16,82,136, while the case fatality rate has further dropped to 1.31 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 24,90,19,657 samples have been tested up to April 4 with 8,93,749 samples being tested on Sunday. The 478 new fatalities include 222 from Maharashtra, 51 from Punjab, 36 from Chhattisgarh, 31 from Uttar Pradesh, 15 from Karnataka, 14 each from Gujarat and Tamil Nadu, 11 from Madhya Pradesh and 10 each from Himachal Pradesh and Kerala. A total of 1,65,101 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 55,878 from Maharashtra, 12,778 from Tamil Nadu, 12,625 from Karnataka, 11,081 from Delhi, 10,344 from West Bengal, 8,881 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,239 from Andhra Pradesh and 7,083 from Punjab. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-230
05-04-2021||India||Amit Shah to visit Chhattisgarh naxal attack site||Union Home Minister Amit Shah will arrive in Chhattisgarh on Monday to chair a high-level meeting in connection with the Naxal attack in the state's Bastar region that claimed the lives of 22 security personnel, a senior official said. Shah will reach the Jagdalpur airport (in Bastar district) at around 10.35 am, following which he will attend the wreath-laying ceremony to pay respect to the martyred personnel at the Police Lines here, he said. It will be Shah's first visit to the Bastar region after assuming the charge of Union home minister, he said. In Jagdalpur, the wreath would be laid on the mortal remains of 14 security personnel, while tributes would be paid to the other deceased jawans at the Bijapur district headquarters, the official said. Shah will later chair a high-level meeting at the Police Coordination Centre here on the Left Wing Extremism (LWE) situation. Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel, senior officials of the state police and the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) will attend the meeting, he said. Shah will then leave for the Basaguda camp of the CRPF in Bijapur in a chopper and will have an interaction and lunch with the CRPF and state police personnel there, he said. He will later go to Raipur and visit three hospitals where the injured personnel are admitted. Shah will leave for Delhi at 5.30 pm on Monday. Twenty two security personnel were killed and 31 others injured in the gunfight with Naxals between Jonaguda and Tekalguda villages along the border of Sukma and Bijapur districts on Saturday. Out of the total 22 fatalities, the CRPF lost eight men, including seven commandos of the CoBRA (CRPF's elite unit) and one jawan of the Bastariya battalion, eight of the other deceased were from the District Reserve Guard (DRG) and six from the Special Task Force (STF). One jawan is still missing, officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-230
05-04-2021||India||India is no longer the country of 'Midnight's Children': Salman Rushdie||Salman Rushdie has used the 40th anniversary of the publication of Midnight’s Children to express regret that “India is no longer the country of this novel”. Many literary critics in the West say that Midnight’s Children is possibly the most profound novel to come out of India since Independence. It won both the Booker Prize and the James Tait Black Memorial Prize in 1981, and was awarded the Booker of Bookers and the Best of the Booker in 1993 and 2008, respectively, to celebrate the Booker Prize’s 25th and 40th anniversaries. In a long article in The Guardian newspaper on Saturday, the author describes the five years it took him to write the novel and how India has changed in the four decades since its emergence: “Forty years is a long time. I have to say that India is no longer the country of this novel.” He goes on: “When I wrote Midnight’s Children I had in mind an arc of history moving from the hope — the bloodied hope, but still the hope — of Independence to the betrayal of that hope in the so-called Emergency, followed by the birth of a new hope. India today, to someone of my mind, has entered an even darker phase than the Emergency years.” His comments not only mark the 40th anniversary of the novel’s publication; they coincide with the Assembly elections in Bengal, Assam, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry. Although Rushdie’s target is not specifically identified, there is no doubting who his words are directed at. “The horrifying escalation of assaults on women, the increasingly authoritarian character of the state, the unjustifiable arrests of people who dare to stand against that authoritarianism, the religious fanaticism, the rewriting of history to fit the narrative of those who want to transform India into a Hindu-nationalist, majoritarian state, and the popularity of the regime in spite  of it all, or, worse, perhaps because of it all — these things encourage a kind of despair.” In the novel, his principal protagonist, Saleem Sinai, is born “handcuffed to history” and with a protruding nose, at the stroke of midnight hour as India becomes independent but is swapped with another baby from a wealthier family in a Bombay nursing home. “When I wrote this book I could associate big-nosed Saleem with the elephant-trunked god Ganesh, the patron deity of literature, among other things, and that felt perfectly easy and natural even though Saleem was not a Hindu,” writes Rushdie in the UK-based newspaper. “All of India belonged to all of us, or so I deeply believed,” he says. “And still believe, even though the rise of a brutal sectarianism believes otherwise. But I find hope in the determination of India’s women and college students to resist that sectarianism, to reclaim the old, secular India and dismiss the darkness. I wish them well. But right now, in India, it’s midnight again.” That he believes India has entered a period even darker than the Emergency is also spelt out in an interview he has given to CNN to discuss his novel. He personally was not like Saleem Sinai but they had grown up in post-Partition Bombay, which he remembers as “a beautiful city then and I think happier than it is now without really any measurable communal discord”. He recalls “how little religion was a subject, it just really wasn’t a very big subject. And that, amongst my immediate friends, they were people of every religion and no religion, and they were Hindus, Christians, Muslims, Sikhs, every kind of child.” He laments: “The non-sectarian atmosphere of my youth has very largely disappeared. The country has a lot more trouble between the majority Hindu community and the minority communities. I would call it a sad time, because the India that people like me were brought up in and kind of bought into, which was the Nehru-Gandhi idea of the secular nation, that idea seems to be crumbling.” If he were to write the novel today, he would write a darker tale: “I hate to say it, but I think things are worse than they used to be.” Rushdie, who has been involved with Pen America, an organisation that fights to protect free expression worldwide, says he wants “to fight for the principle of free speech, which is the rock on which free societies stand. Far from the world getting more accustomed to free speech, it seems free speech is more imperilled these days than it used to be.” In his article in The Guardian, he has given an insight into the cosmopolitan structure of Midnight’s Children and also the way he has used the English language. He had considered the great books in the West as possible models. “But I was also thinking about another kind of capaciousness, the immense epics of India, the Mahabharata and Ramayana, and the fabulist traditions of the Panchatantra, the Thousand and One Nights and the Kashmiri Sanskrit compendium called Katha-sarit-sagar (Ocean of the Streams of Story). “I was thinking of India’s oral narrative traditions, too, which were a form of storytelling in which digression was almost the basic principle; the storyteller could tell, in a sort of whirling cycle, a fictional tale, a mythological tale, a political story and an autobiographical story; he — because it was always a he —could intersperse his multiple narratives with songs and keep large audiences entranced,” he wrote. “I loved that multiplicity could be so captivating. Young writers are often given a version of the advice that the King of Hearts gives the White Rabbit in Alice’s Adventures in Wonderland, when the Rabbit becomes confused in court about how to tell his story: ‘Begin at the beginning,’ the King said, very gravely, ‘and go on until you come to the end; then stop.’ It was inspiring to learn, from the oral narrative masters of, in particular, Kerala in south India, that this was not the only way, or even the most captivating way, to go about things.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-230
05-04-2021||India||Twenty-two jawans killed in Chhattisgarh Maoist gun battle ||At least 22 jawans were killed and 31 injured in a four-hour gun battle with Maoists in Chhattisgarh on Saturday, with unofficial accounts suggesting they had walked into a trap though the police brass dismissed reports of a “meticulously planned Naxal ambush”. Security officials alleged an intelligence failure and poor leadership by the CRPF commanders and drew parallels with the February 2019 Pulwama massacre of 40 personnel in the run-up to the general election. However, CRPF director-general Kuldiep Singh denied any lapses. Union Home minister Amit Shah on Monday is scheduled to chair a high-level meeting at the Police Coordination Centre in Raipur on the Left Wing Extremism (LWE) situation. Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel, senior officials of the state police and the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) will attend the meeting, an official said. The bullet-riddled bodies of 17 jawans were recovered on Sunday, after five had been found on Saturday, from the forests on the Bijapur-Sukma border while one jawan was still “missing”, a senior official said. This is the highest casualty the security forces have suffered at the Maoists' hands since April 2017, when the insurgents ambushed and killed 25 CRPF personnel near Burkapal in Sukma. Former diplomat K.C. Singh tweeted: “The #NaxalAttack is like a horror film replay. It happens time & again due to intel failure & repetitive operational & patrolling flaws. Who is answerable? HM of course. But his mindspace is preoccupied with elections & BJP politics. Is this sustainable?” Senior officers claimed more than 10 Maoists had been killed in Saturday’s encounter but other sources said the police had found the body of a lone rebel — a woman. The Maoists are known to carry away their dead and injured. Eight of the dead jawans were from the CRPF — seven from the elite Cobra commando unit — while the rest were from various state police units. Two of the dead CRPF jawans were from Assam, where Assembly polls are on. Unofficial accounts by CRPF and state police sources suggested the insurgents had laid a trap for the forces in the middle of a five-pronged anti-Maoist offensive, but inspector-general of police (Bastar Range) Sundarraj P dismissed any “meticulously planned Naxal ambush”. “The security forces fought bravely and inflicted a heavy blow on the ultras during the face-off,” PTI quoted Sundarraj as saying. Sources said five teams totalling 2,000-plus security personnel had on Friday night launched a concerted operation in the Maoist-hit Bijapur and Sukma districts after learning that rebels led by the dreaded Madvi Hidma had gathered in the forests in large numbers. The operation was launched from five places — Tarrem, Usoor and Pamed in Bijapur, and Minpa and Narsapuram in Sukma. While a team was advancing through the forests near Jonaguda, around 500km from state capital Raipur, it was ambushed by some 250 Maoists on Saturday afternoon, a CRPF officer said. He said the forces were scattered and trapped along a 2km stretch of forest. A senior police officer gave PTI a somewhat different account. He said some 400 Maoists had strategically positioned themselves on a hillock in front of Tekalguda village and around it. The patrolling team from Tarrem came under heavy fire, prompting some of them to move to what appeared a deserted village, where the Maoists lay in wait for them. Visuals from the spot showed slain jawans lying in the fields and on the village streets, PTI added. It quoted an eyewitness as saying the jawans' bodies had bullet injuries and gashes inflicted by sharp weapons. The Maoists fled with the weapons, bullet-proof jackets and the shoes of the dead troops, sources said. Sources in the security establishment said that initial reports suggested an intelligence failure and poor leadership on the part of the CRPF, which reports to Union home minister Amit Shah. “The commanders did not handle their men properly and counter the ambush,” a security official said, requesting anonymity. “The Maoist leadership is said to have been giving arms training to its cadres for the past few months in the jungles. They were well prepared and our jawans walked into the trap and were slaughtered. Who is accountable for this intelligence and operational failure?” He added: “Has this government fixed any accountability for the gross intelligence failures in the Pulwama massacre and the Chinese intrusion in Ladakh? These killings are likely to go the same way.” CRPF chief Kuldiep, who rushed to Chhattisgarh from Delhi, denied any intelligence or operational failure on the part of the country’s top anti-Maoist agency.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-230
05-04-2021||India||Venkaiah Naidu releases book by  BJD MP||Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu on Friday released a book titled “Neelimarani: My Mother, My Hero” at the Raj Bhavan here. Authored by Dr Achyuta Samanta, the ruling Biju Janata Dal MP from Kandhmal and founder of  Kalinga Institute of Industrial Technology (KIIT) deemed university  and Kalinga Institute of Social Sciences (KISS), the book speaks about the struggles of his mother who raised her seven children braving acute poverty. Releasing the book, Naidu, who began his two-day visit to Odisha on Friday, said, “We read biographies of entrepreneurs, explorers, and scientists, but writing the biography of a mother is something different and unique. Writing a biography on one’s mother is very inspiring.” The vice-president said, “When I was going through the pages of the book, I could not but feel enormous respect and reverence for a mother who fought every odd to single handedly raise her seven children. Despite abject poverty and lack of resources, she ensured that all her children got good education and became responsible citizens. I was moved by the account of Dr Achyuta Samanta’s father’s death.” “Despite such life-shattering experiences, Smt Neelimaraniji never wavered from her humane approach towards the poor and downtrodden and kept on working for their upliftment. I am very happy to know that with the help of her sons, she turned her native village Kalarabanka into one of the first smart villages of its kind in the country. This is inspiring!” said Naidu who urged people not to forget their roots. “No matter where you are, you should always remember your mother, motherland and native place,” he said. In his address on the occasion, governor Prof. Ganeshi Lal said, “We should not only serve humanity but also worship humanity. At such a young age Dr Samanta has written such an important book. I am reminded of Thakkar Bapa when I see Achyuta Samanta.” Speaking at the release ceremony, Dr Samanta talked about his encounter with women power right since his childhood and said that has always been emphasising the need for women empowerment. “Women’s power helps in the holistic development of a nation and society. If importance is given to women’s empowerment, the nation and society will certainly develop,” he said. Neelimarani, the mother of Dr Achyuta Samanta was an ordinary human being with extraordinary dreams and vision to help society. Her ideology had a deep impact on Dr Samanta and created in him the urge to do something for the society. Living a life full of struggles, Neelimarani developed a small remote village into a smart village. Her constant reminder to Dr Samanta to work for the development of their native village Kalarabanka, about 60km from here, is the main theme of the book. Due to the accidental death of Dr Samanta’s father, his mother Neelimarani became helpless at the age of only 40. This tragedy caused her unimaginable hardship and made life a struggle. But she never gave up as she had a strong willpower and followed moral principles. Dr Samanta has attributed all his achievements to the values that his mother taught him while growing up. She made him what he is today. He has dedicated all his accomplishments in life to his mother Neelimarani.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-230
05-04-2021||India||Night curfew in 10 Odisha districts ||The Odisha government has decided to impose night curfew in 10 districts of the state from Monday and is mulling to impose day curfew following the sudden spike in Covid-19 cases. For the last three days, Odisha has reported more than 400 Covid positive cases per day. All shops, commercial establishments, offices, institutions and movement of individuals shall remain closed or prohibited between 10pm and 5am. The districts where night curfew will be imposed are Sundergarh, Jharsuguda, Sambalpur, Bargarh, Bolangir, Nuapada, Kalahandi, Nabarangpur, Koraput and Malkangiri. Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Sunday sealed the main branch of the State Bank of India (SBI) here after seven of its employees were diagnosed with Covid-19. The bank will be sealed for 48 hours and will only be opened for public use after proper sanitisation of its premises and Covid test of all its employees. “The SBI main branch is sealed for the next 48 hours from April 4 to April 7 after its seven staffs were found positive for Covid-19,” said BCM commissioner P.C. Chaudhury, adding the BMC will go for sanitisation, contract tracing and testing at the bank. The BMC will conduct sanitisation, contact tracing and testing at the bank during these two days, he added. Earlier, the BMC had sealed a shopping mall at Unit-II Market building on charges of violation of Covid guidelines. Taking into account the sudden surge in Covid-19 cases, the Puri Shree Jagannath Temple was closed on Sunday for devotees to carry out the necessary disinfection drive. Henceforth, on every Sunday the temple will be closed for devotees for the purpose of carrying out the sanitisation process. As the number of Covid cases are going up, the state government is mulling to impose curfew even during the daytime. Odisha Legislative Assembly Speaker Surjya Naryan Patro on Sunday gave a hint of this. “Chief minister is reviewing the Covid-19 situation. Seeing the rise in cases, a decision to impose curfew in day time may be taken in next four to five days,” said Patro. Meanwhile,  the number of Covid-19 cases for the third consecutive day crossed the 400 mark in the state. While on Sunday 471 Covid cases were reported in the state, it had witnessed 452 cases on Saturday and 461 cases on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-230
05-04-2021||India||Merchant and Tejashwi Prasad Yadav’s aide killed||The brazen murder of a well known businessmen and close aide of Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav in Katihar town, around 300km east from Bihar capital, has rocked the state. The Opposition has put the government in the dock and attacked chief minister Nitish Kumar over his silence. Clothes and textiles merchant Nirmal Bubna, 55, was shot dead by a few unidentified motorcycle-borne persons while he was returning home after shutting down his shop on Saturday night. The incident took place in an area under Salmari police station. The miscreants fired 27 bullets of which 15 hit him. He collapsed on the spot and was declared brought dead at a nearby hospital where people rushed him. Those involved in the assault went on to allegedly rob a nearby petrol pump of Rs 2 lakh. They escaped from the scene. The CCTV cameras installed around the scene of the crimes have captured their actions. Bubna had been associated with the RJD for decades and was planning to contest from Kadwa Assembly constituency in the state elections held in October-November last year. He could not contest because the seat went to the Congress, one of the partners of the Opposition Grand Alliance. Katihar SP Vikas Kumar told The Telegraph that the killing could be an outcome of some old enmity. “We are carrying on investigations in the case. Around five to six persons who came on two motorcycles are involved in the murder. We have obtained the CCTV footages related to it. The forensic team and dog squad of the police are also on work,” Vikas said. Reacting to the murder of his party leader, Tejashwi, who also happens to be the leader of Opposition in the Legislative Assembly, put Nitish in the dock. “Respected Nitishji, is your sensitivity dead? The killers enjoying the patronage and protection of the ruling power are causing mayhem. Your criminals have become so brazen that they fire 27 bullets while dancing in a leisurely manner at one person because they know that their protector is sitting in Patna,” Tejashwi said. The RJD leader added that it was “becoming difficult to venture out in the state due to the mayhem of criminals and murders happening all around”. There has been a spate of murders in Bihar, causing further worry for the common people who are already anxious about the continuously deteriorating law and order situation. Around three dozen people have been killed in various incidents across the state over the past one week. The figures include the murder of five members of a family in Madhubani district, an incident that is being seen as a caste-related killing. Besides, 18 persons have lost their lives in Nawada and Begusarai districts allegedly after consuming illicit liquor in a state that implemented total prohibition on April 5, 2016.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-231
05-04-2021||India||Stone-throwing returns in Kashmir||Security forces fired and lobbed tear gas shells to quell protests against an anti-militancy operation in a Pulwama village on Friday, injuring about a dozen people and reinforcing the view that stone-throwing was returning as a normal feature of encounters in Kashmir. While most of the injuries were caused by metal pellets and tear gas shells, at least one villager suffered a bullet hit for which local people blamed the troops, who blamed the militants. Three militants died in the gunfight near Kakapora, during which clashes broke out between stone-throwers and the security forces near the encounter site. The trend of young men risking their lives by storming encounter sites to rescue trapped militants had begun in early 2016, but the forces had largely succeeded in curbing the practice in run-up to the abrogation of Article 370 provisions in August 2019. But such clashes have gathered momentum in recent weeks. Inspector-general of police Vijay Kumar recently claimed that stone-throwing had become a more serious problem than militancy. Kumar said two of the three dead militants were involved in Thursday’s attack on the home of a senior BJP leader in Srinagar during which a police constable was killed. Local people said the troops had targeted not just the protesters but also others. Ishrat Aziz, 25, received a bullet injury inside her home while she was busy with her household chores. Ghulam Nabi Dar, 61, a retired government teacher, had his arms and torso riddled with pellets. The former teacher said he was targeted without any provocation, insisting there was no stone-throwing in his area. Hospital sources in Pampore, Pulwama, said they had treated 11 people from areas near the encounter site, some with pellet injuries and one, a woman, with bullet injuries. Two patients came with pellet wounds in their eyes, they said. Videos purportedly showed protesters raining stones on a security vehicle at the encounter site. In recent years, the forces had intimidated prospective stone-throwers through the frequent use of pellet guns, arrests and other measures, prompting the Centre to claim to have “restored” peace in the Valley. Pellets have blinded hundreds in Kashmir over the years. Police sources said they frequently encountered stone-throwing mobs during encounters these days. “But in most cases they are not allowed to come close to the encounter sites,” a source said. Videos showed the forces using explosives to blow up a residential house where the militants were apparently holed up — a common anti-insurgency tactic employed by troops. While violent protests are re-emerging, militancy-related violence shows no sign of ebbing. The militants are targeting BJP leaders in particular. Two BJP councillors, Reyaz Ahmad and his father-in-law Peer Shamsuddin, and a constable were killed in an attack in Sopore on Tuesday. Two days later, militants attacked the Srinagar home of senior BJP leader Mohammad Anwar Khan. He was unharmed but his personal security officer was killed. The secretary of the Jammu and Kashmir BJP, Farida Khan, who was the target of the Sopore attack, told this newspaper that party members were feeling unsafe in the Valley.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-231
05-04-2021||India||Second wave is likely to be larger than first, surveillance failure and Covid denial to blame||Covid-19 denial among sections of the population and the failure of disease surveillance mechanisms to detect and contain localised infection clusters have contributed to India’s second wave, a top public health expert has said. India on Sunday recorded over 93,000 new Covid-19 cases in the previous 24 hours and the epidemic appeared only a day away from surpassing its previous daily record of 97,894 cases. Dr T. Sundararaman, global coordinator of the People’s Health Movement and a former executive director of the National Health Systems Resource Centre, New Delhi, to deconstruct the second wave tells The Telegraph why it is difficult — for now — to predict the peak or duration of the second wave. Q: India’s second Covid-19 epidemic is growing even faster than during its first growth phase in July-August 2020. Was this anticipated? T. Sundararaman: Yes, the rate of spread is much more rapid that in the first wave. In the first wave it took India 61 days to go from about 25,000 cases to 92,000 cases. In the second wave it has taken just 22 days — about one-third the time. The second wave should have been anticipated. Almost every country has had a second wave. But better-performing countries have had slower, flatter second waves. The Indian government appears to have been taken by surprise. It is not the government alone. Premature predictions from the scientific community that there would be no second wave and even a science and technology ministry-supported modelling effort confidently predicting the end of the pandemic in February have been misleading. Further, considerable levels of Covid-19-denial at the population and community level have contributed to this wave. Fortunately, after a cabinet secretary review meeting held on April 2, the government has expressed serious concern and directed a comprehensive response plan. But it would have been better if these measures had been done in four-month-long trough between the waves. Q: Surveys in Ahmedabad, Delhi, Mumbai, Pune, had indicated that 25 to 30 per cent of the population had already been infected by December. These prevalence figures along with declining counts in December-January had stirred speculation that India may be approaching herd immunity. Why then has such a growth taken place? Sundararaman: The “threshold level of herd immunity” required to prevent Covid-19 spread is estimated to be anywhere between 60 per cent and 75 per cent. The exact level depends on the infectivity of the virus. Given that only 25 per cent of the population was immune in December, another 450 million would have to get infection if we were to reach a herd immunity level of 60 per cent through natural infections alone. Even with 1 per cent or less mortality rates, the number of deaths in the country would be unacceptably high. Achieving this herd immunity threshold level of 60 per cent does not mean elimination of the disease. It only means the epidemic shrinks vastly. New cases and deaths would continue and there could be outbreaks in sections of the population where infection or vaccination levels are low, like rural areas. Achieving herd immunity by infection — as different from vaccinations — was never a strategy of control and we were never near achieving it. Nor is it a credible explanation for the declining cases after the first wave. Q: What drives this second wave? Is it even possible to predict how high can the peak go or how long this wave will last? Sundararaman: In most countries the second wave has been larger than the first. In some there has been a smaller second peak but then a large third wave. Only New Zealand and a few other countries are an exception to this rule. Some countries that did well in the first round have done a good job of containing the second round. Like South Korea or Australia or Thailand — but others like Brazil and Mexico or many European countries did not. Second and subsequent waves are not due to re-infections. Reinfection remains an exceptional event. Second waves are also unlikely to be due to mutant strains. Mutant strains in India have not been linked to increased infectivity (except to some extent in Punjab) and cannot explain the second wave in most countries. Blaming slackening of social distancing and masking, has some truth to it, but this is only a partial and inadequate explanation. Covid-19 infection spreads along social networks of people in frequent contact with each other. Within a geography like a village or city ward, there are multiple heterogeneous social networks in terms of inter-mixing, observance of rules, cultural practices, health-seeking behaviour, and stigma. The inter-connections between networks or clusters of people are semi-random, irregular and unpredictable. Thus, the disease can burn out within one cluster of the people by a combination of this group having more immune persons, and/or better control measures and health behaviours. But the disease continues to spread at low levels within non-immune persons in this cluster and to other clusters which are more susceptible. Soon, the density of cases within new clusters reaches levels that spark off outbreaks. A very good disease surveillance system should be able to detect and respond promptly to small potentially-containable cluster-level outbreaks — but discovered too late these multiple outbreaks have snowballed into a second wave. Another reason for late discovery and response to small cluster outbreaks is the laxity in implementing test, track and treat protocols outside known hotspots and, surprisingly, extensive stigma and Covid-19-denial in the community. We have observed this in our field studies. Going by other countries’ experience, India’s second wave is likely to be larger than its first, but how high it will go will depend both on effectiveness of control measures and on this unpredictable element of how it spreads within these inter-connected clusters. There is no accurate way to predict the peak or duration of this second wave. Maharashtra’s cases are already more than double the September peak, and still rising. Perhaps this wave will subside by May, but as long as the majority of people are non-immune to the disease, and disease surveillance and response is sub-optimal, there would be even more waves to follow. Achieving adequate levels of herd immunity through scaling up vaccination is currently the most ethical and effective way to get out of this crisis situation — but even this is not a standalone solution. Q: Is the Centre better prepared to face the second wave as compared to the first? The Centre has attributed the spread to two factors (1) lack of precautions by people, (2) laxity in public health measures such as isolation, contact tracing, quarantine, and testing with RT-PCR. How best can these be addressed? Sundararaman: There are some strengths India has acquired while managing the first wave. Firstly, vaccines are now available. We must urgently develop a vaccine delivery strategy that prioritises the population sub-groups by occupation and marginalisation, who are most at risk and from whom spread is most likely. Secondly, India has immensely expanded testing capacity — from 1,200 tests and three testing centres to over 1.2 million tests per day and about 2,500 testing centres. Over 90 per cent of production is domestic. The challenge here is to address inequities in access due to both due price and non-price barriers. Another strength is that the necessary intensive care unit management skills and equipment and beds have increased considerably. But the concern is that this would still be short of requirements. Also, the cost and quality regulations in the private sector care are very poorly designed and implemented, and even patients with PM-JAY coverage are unable to access free hospital services. However, there is clearly much to be done on health behaviour. The failure to achieve behaviour change must not be blamed on people in a passive and helpless manner. By now the public health leadership should have gathered good evidence from research on the most effective approaches to behaviour change communication within specific circumstances in which people are living. An excessive reliance on law and order approaches is worse than ineffective. It leads to stigmatisation and denial of the problem that makes measures like contact tracing, isolation and testing even more difficult to practise. There are examples of community engagement for such purposes — but this requires to be made the norm and scaled up rapidly. Q: The Centre says for each positive case, at least 20 close contacts should be traced and quarantined. For 80,000 new cases, that would mean tracing 1.6 million contacts across the country daily. Is that even possible? What is the best strategy forward? Sundararaman: A nationwide aggregation of the figure makes the task look impossible. But this average of 20 close contacts per case is an eminently achievable and essential objective. Centralised solutions like Aarogya Setu have failed quite miserably. To achieve this objective, the government must decentralise this task completely to local governments, to employers, to social security agencies and to other local organisations and associations — all of which should be working with outreach workers of the public health system. Contact tracing is not a police function. It is the function of social workers who have the community’s trust. Contact tracing remains relevant even when community transmission is established and disease is widespread — since at the local level, the target is on limiting spread within clusters and across clusters. Physical barricading of houses and streets where there are infections in contrast, followed at local levels, is a useless if not a harmful measure. The government has an old weakness in failing to make communities active participants in health care. This has only worsened with home departments and general administration taking over these public health functions. But the second wave is an opportunity to get back the public into public health.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-231
05-04-2021||India||Finger at Modi government’s anti-maoist policy failure||Several security experts on Sunday questioned the Narendra Modi government’s anti-Maoist policy as news arrived that the insurgents had ambushed and killed at least 22 security force personnel in Chhattisgarh. “The recurring attacks on security personnel in Chhattisgarh belie the government’s tall claim that the demonetisation had choked the Maoists’ funds and broken their backbone,” a former CRPF director-general told The Telegraph. He said Amit Shah had after taking over as Union home minister in 2019 told the security bosses at his first meeting with them that Kashmir and the Maoist insurgency were his topmost priorities. “But the government has so far not delivered. This government has no strategic formulation to counter the Maoists,” the ex-DG said. Soon after coming to power in 2014, the Modi government had promised a “hard-nosed” anti-Maoist policy, criticising the UPA for adopting what it alleged was a “weak-kneed” strategy. Then home minister Rajnath Singh had unveiled a four-pronged strategy after meeting the chief secretaries and police chiefs of the 10 Maoist-affected states, including Chhattisgarh. The four prongs were: security, development, the rights and entitlements of the tribal people, and the management of the public perception. However, the ambitious policy remained on paper, apparently because the home ministry failed to achieve the required level of coordination with other ministries such as tribal affairs, rural development, road transport and highways, and environment and forests. “The policy got tied up in red tape and finally junked. It required inter-ministerial consultations, and the infrastructure-related projects needed clearances from other ministries,” a home ministry official said. He said that during the UPA rule, then home minister P. Chidambaram too had announced a “clear, hold and develop” policy but it did not yield significant results. The dead Eight of the dead jawans were from the District Reserve Guard, seven from the CRPF’s elite Cobra commando unit, six from state police’s special task force and one from the CRPF’s Bastariya battalion. The lone missing jawan belongs to the Cobra unit. Two of the dead Cobra commandos were from Assam: Dilip Kumar Das from Barpeta and Bablu Rambha from Goalpara. Shah cut short his election campaign in Assam, returned to Delhi and held a high-level meeting on Sunday evening to review the security situation in Chhattisgarh. Home secretary Ajay Bhalla, Intelligence Bureau director Arvind Kumar and senior CRPF officials attended the meeting. Shah had earlier told reporters in Assam the government would give a fitting reply. President Ramnath Kovind and Congress leader Rahul Gandhi tweeted condolence messages. Chhattisgrah chief minister Bhupesh Baghel promised intensified anti-Maoist operations. Maoists have killed security personnel in a series of attacks in Chhattisgarh since the demonetisation. On March 23 this year, five District Reserve Guard personnel were killed when the Maoists blew up their bus in Narayanpur district. On March 21 last year, 17 jawans were killed in an ambush in Minpa, Sukma. On April 9, 2019, BJP legislator Bhima Mandavi and four security personnel were killed when the Maoists blew up their vehicle in Dantewada. In April 2017, the Maoists massacred 25 CRPF personnel in Burkapal, Sukma, a month after killing 12 CRPF jawans in Sukma. Of the country’s 31 Maoist-hit districts, 13 are in Jharkhand, 8 in Chhattisgarh and 4 in Bihar. Intelligence reports suggest the rebels are regrouping in Chhattisgarh, Bihar, Jharkhand and Maharashtra. A Union home ministry report says that Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand together accounted for over 70 per cent of Maoist violence and 75 per cent of the killings in 2017 and 2018. Bihar, Odisha and Maharashtra reported 13 per cent, 8.2 per cent and 7.1 per cent of the violence, respectively. Some 90,000 CRPF personnel are now deployed in the Maoist zones of Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand and Andhra Pradesh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-231
05-04-2021||India||Tamil Nadu Assembly elections 2021: Punch-line push in last lap||The campaign for the April 6 Tamil Nadu polls ended on Sunday evening, its last leg marked by a high-voltage ad blitz focused more on punch lines than bread-and-butter issues. On Friday, the DMK-led alliance that includes the Congress, Left, MDMK, VCK, IUML and other small parties, took out a two-page ad in the major dailies urging the voters not to fall for the ruling coalition’s “bizarre fascist dreams”. The ad contained cartoons attacking the Citizenship Amendment Act and the new farm laws, among other issues, and chided the ruling AIADMK for supporting ally BJP on these matters. The AIADMK hit back on Sunday with a four-page ad strewn with images of news reports from a decade ago  — when the DMK was in power  — about power cuts and alleged land-grabbing by the then government. In between, the BJP had come out with a full-page advertisement on Saturday charging the DMK with being anti-Hindu and corrupt. It also accused the DMK of doing nothing, as a partner in the then ruling UPA, to stop the killing of Tamils during the last phase of the Sri Lankan civil war in 2009. Rarely has this kind of a media war been witnessed during elections in the state. The BJP sought to send out a discreet eleventh hour signal to the voters by announcing the Dadasaheb Phalke Award for superstar actor Rajinikanth. But it was DMK president Stalin who made merry with a famous one-liner from a Rajinikanth film, where he plays a man named Arunachalam: “Aandavan solran, Arunachalam seigiraan (Whatever God says, Arunachalam does).” Stalin used it in the sense of “Whatever Stalin says, Palaniswami does”  — a sly allegation that chief minister E.K. Palaniswami’s campaign consists of parroting promises earlier made by the DMK leader. While Congress leader Rahul Gandhi has portrayed the battle as a BJP-RSS bid to dominate the state by “controlling” the AIADMK, Stalin has concentrated his attacks largely on the AIADMK. Stalin made a whirlwind tour of the 16 Chennai city constituencies on Sunday, winding up in Kolathur from where he is contesting. He accused the AIADMK government of the last 10 years of ignoring issues related to people’s daily lives. “Commission, corruption, collection” was the ruling party’s motto, he alleged, adding that even the government’s handling of the pandemic was not free of these “three Cs”. AIADMK campaigners led by Palaniswami and deputy chief minister O. Panneerselvam dubbed the DMK the “originators” of corruption in the state, asking voters not to give the party of “land grabbers” another chance. They also raised the spectre of lawlessness if the DMK returned to power. The AIADMK’s principal ally, the BJP, built on this negative narrative. “Do you want development or Udayanidhi Stalin?” asked Union home minister Amit Shah, hitting out at Stalin’s son while campaigning for actor Khushbu Sundar, BJP candidate from the Thousand Lights constituency in Chennai. Udayanidhi is contesting from the neighbouring Chepauk-Triplicane seat where 30 per cent of the electorate are minorities and view the new citizenship regime with concern. Udayanidhi has directed a series of barbs at Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his campaign speeches, prompting the BJP to accuse him of defamation in a complaint to the poll panel on Saturday. Palaniswami and Panneerselvam electioneered on their respective home turfs of Edappadi in Salem and Bodi in Theni on Sunday, consolidating their campaigns on the last day. Actor Kamal Haasan’s MNM and the AMMK, led by Sasikala’s nephew T.T.V. Dhinakaran, leading the two other fronts battling for the 234-member Tamil Nadu Assembly, spiritedly ploughed their own furrows, unfazed by the glitter of the two Dravidian majors’ campaigns. Campaigning ended on Sunday also for the 30-seat Puducherry House.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-231
05-04-2021||India||Protesting farmers try to gherao minister Som Parkash ||Protesting farmers on Sunday tried to gherao Union minister Som Parkash at the BJP office at Shastri Nagar in Hoshiarpur, Punjab, but police thwarted their attempt. The Union minister of state for commerce and industry had gone to the local BJP office to attend a party meeting. When the farmers protesting against the three farm laws heard of this, they headed there to gherao him but were stopped at three points by the police. Farmers then raised slogans against the Central government and the minister, who is also the MP from Hoshiarpur. Parkash remained in the party office for about two hours and then left under heavy police protection. Farmers in Punjab and Haryana have been protesting against  BJP leaders to register their disapproval of the three new farm laws forced by the Centre that they see as their “death warrant”. On Saturday, farmers were injured in Rohtak, Haryana, in police action when they were protesting against the chief minister’s visit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-231
05-04-2021||India||How the saffron cat has been catching the mice||Deng Xiaoping famously said it did not matter if the cat was white or black as long as it caught mice. This was considered pragmatism about an open-market-oriented economic policy for China. China’s spectacular economic success since then as a rising superpower has led to repeated celebrations of this quip as a self-evident pragmatic truth about relying on economic liberalisation as the way to success. If pragmatism is a virtue in itself, it should apply elsewhere too. Politics is not so distant from economics, so let us see how it fares there. China’s one-party system is a good pink cat because it catches more than 99 per cent votes in any election anywhere, including Hong Kong. Deng, who did not carry the excess baggage of any ideology, would probably have agreed. Now see how it works with its biggest neighbour India, which takes pride in its multi-party democracy. In the electoral game each party is out to catch the maximum possible number of mice, namely seats. And in our first-past-the-post system, Narendra Modi is the hero with the BJP getting about 38 per cent votes but enjoying a majority in Parliament. How does it matter whether it’s a black, white or saffron cat? It has caught the mice all right. Absolute pragmatism is not bound by ideology. However, this is not true of the BJP. It has Hindutva, which sets a boundary to its pragmatism. In the absence of any coherent theory, ancient Indian “history” is a cornerstone of its ideology. As Prime Minister Modi explained: “India’s history is also that which the common people of India have kept in the folk stories of India, that has been carried forward by generations.” (Deccan Herald, February 17, 2021). Anthropologists and historians often take myths and rituals seriously as a possible source from which undocumented history might be deciphered. Not so with our current Prime Minister and many of his colleagues. Unadulterated myth is history for them. So Ganesha’s elephant head was a result of plastic surgery (Modi). The Mahabharat’s Sanjay had Internet technology and satellites to aid him (Tripura chief minister Biplab Deb). Darwin’s theory of evolution is wrong because our ancestors haven’t said anywhere that they have seen a monkey turn into a man (then junior HRD minister Satyapal Singh). Nuclear tests are not new to India because the sage Kanad had conducted a nuclear test centuries ago (Ramesh Pokhriyal, who has since become Union education minister). It’s a short distance from this to the saffron establishment’s modern-day beliefs like the cow being our mother and Ram having been born in a particular spot, where the Ram temple will be built. This rather remarkable version of India’s ancient history, embellished with its modern-day beliefs, appeals to many in this land of gurus and babas. And yet this version of Indian history, black or white, was not a good enough cat that could catch enough mice to propel the BJP to political power. It required pragmatism of a different kind, which was injected in two massive doses. First, a version of history that was marinated in the hatred of Muslims by depicting them as invaders who had violated that glorious ancient history, diminishing the Hindus. Neither V.D. Savarkar nor Guru Golwalkar ever quite explained why the Muslims alone and not the British deserved this distinction. The Hindu elements even in the Congress may have had some sympathy for this view, but officially fought against the British coloniser. The RSS never joined the anti-colonial movement; rather, it helped the British. So it took a long time for the BJP to be counted as a serious contestant for power. However, once the BJP broke that barrier, a heavier second dose was administered. It emphasised that the Hindu Rashtra in the making needed to be protected against Muslims in particular, and perhaps other religions too. The government under the BJP took up that challenge. However, meeting that challenge required that no fine distinction be made between government and country. Once you see the beauty of the equation, the rest follows easily. The government has to defend the county against invaders from inside and outside, including those anti-nationals who have either destroyed our glorious history or betrayed the country by criticising its government. Naturally they have to be ruthlessly dealt with for the sake of the nation, which means the government. What appears to many to be unjustified repression of all kinds of dissent is the need of the hour to defend the country. What appears legitimate dissent against government policy can never be legitimate. It is dangerous and must be dealt with ruthlessly using the sedition law. This is a sound strategy under a determined leader who knows how to be decisive and use authority, with the country in awe of his authority. It’s a wonderful strategy, this sedition law. It neatly divides the people between those who support the leader, the real nationalistic patriots, and the treacherous anti-nationalists who are out to divide the country. There is of course a silent middle (maybe they are in the majority), but who cares so long as they are in awe, if not of the leader then certainly of the sedition charges that can in one stroke destroy their lives. The silent majority will see no evil, hear no evil and most important, speak no evil against the government. Can there be a better pragmatic cat that can catch all the mice? And the people will be made aware of the colour of the cat, which is neither black nor white, not even red, but saffron. But then, why is this fool-proof strategy not working so well on the ground? Too many fault lines seem to be appearing. Portent of an earthquake? Take for example the project of the Hindu Rashtra. Dalits started questioning its very foundation — the caste system, which they claim is loaded against them. Following Ambedkar they went back to Bhima Koregaon to commemorate the historic event of Dalit valour against the upper caste Peshwas. They had to be stopped, and two local upper caste patriots did the needful rioting. However, for a delicate matter like the caste system this was too crude, tending to widen the fault lines. Pragmatism fortified by the sedition law demanded a better solution. The police took little time to change the narrative, shifting the focus from caste to sedition, in particular a conspiracy to kill our leader. Charges of a conspiracy to wage war against the State were lodged in no time against a group of writers, lawyers, poets and human right activists. They were all anti-nationals, not in awe of the government, and had been committing the worst crime of seeing, hearing and speaking out against evil. Evidence was found in their computers. The cat had caught the mice. But then, who would have known that there are experts in Boston who would come up with evidence of malware implanted in the suspects’ computers? It could not be hushed up, because there are newspapers like The Washington Post, which had brought down former US President Richard Nixon over the Watergate scandal. Unlike our pliable media which sees no evil and therefore speaks no evil so that the citizens hear no evil, The Post published the opinion of the Boston experts. One of the lawyers who had argued against the conspiracy case and had arranged to send the supposed police evidence to Boston, said this was only the tip of the iceberg. Some more anti-nationals immediately saw the evil possibility of similarly implanted malware and the tampering of the electronic voting machines. Other political parties should have had an interest in taking this up vigorously, but they did not. Of the largest national parties, one is paralysed by the parivarvad of “Mummy and her two”, and the other is paralysed by another parivarvad of “Hum do, hamara do” (We are two, and have nurtured two). So the cat can probably continue to catch all the inconvenient mice, with a silent middle. But that silent middle, for long blind, deaf and mute to evil, is suddenly stirring to life. They are the farmers, millions of them across the country who have started seeing through this game of evils. The cat is being swamped by mice, millions of them. If the cat is pragmatic, it should realise that the show cannot go on much longer. Amit Bhaduri is an economist and was professor emeritus at JNU||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-231
