06-04-2021||India||Centre advises its employees above 45 to get vaccinated against Covid||The Centre on Tuesday asked all its employees aged 45 years and above to get themselves vaccinated to effectively contain the spread of Covid-19. They are further advised to continue to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour even after vaccination by frequent washing of hands and sanitisation, wearing a mask or face cover and observing social distancing, etc., an order issued by the Personnel Ministry said. “The government has been monitoring the situation very closely, and based on the strategy adopted for prioritising the groups for vaccination to contain the spread of Covid-19, currently, all persons of the age of 45 years and above can participate in the vaccination exercise,” it said. “In view of the above, all central government employees of the age of 45 years and above are advised to get themselves vaccinated so as to effectively contain the spread of Covid-19,” said the order issued to all the central government ministries and departments. The order comes amid an alarming spike in Covid-19 cases in the country in the last few weeks. More than 43 lakh Covid-19 vaccine doses were administered in a span of 24 hours on April 5, the highest single-day coverage till now, taking the total doses given in the country so far to 8,31,10,926, the Union Health Ministry said earlier in the day. As on day-80 of the vaccination drive (April 5), a total 43,00,966 vaccine doses have been given out of which 39,00,505 beneficiaries were vaccinated across 48,095 sessions for 1st dose while 4,00,461 beneficiaries received the 2nd dose, according to the data updated at 7 am. "This is the highest single day vaccination coverage in the country so far," the ministry said. Eight states including Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Delhi, Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat have shown a steep rise in the Covid daily new cases accounting for 80.04 per cent of the new cases reported in a span of 24 hours, the ministry highlighted. Maharashtra has reported the highest daily new cases at 47,288. It is followed by Chhattisgarh with 7,302 while Karnataka reported 5,279 new cases. India's total active caseload has reached 7,88,223 and now comprises 6.21 per cent of the country's total infections. A net increase of 46,393 cases recorded in the total active caseload in a span of 24 hours. Twelve states -- Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Punjab, Karnataka, Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Haryana, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Kerala are displaying an upward trajectory in daily new cases, the ministry said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-227
06-04-2021||India||Maharashtra govt, Deshmukh move SC against HC order for CBI probe||Maharashtra government and its former home minister Anil Deshmukh moved the Supreme Court on Tuesday challenging the Bombay High Court order directing CBI probe into the allegations of corruption and misconduct levelled against him by former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh. "We have filed an appeal on behalf of the state government against the Bombay High Court order of yesterday," said Maharashtra standing counsel Sachin Patil. Deshmukh's counsel Sudhanshu S Choudhari said that he has also filed a petition in the apex court against the high court order. Earlier in the day, Bombay-based lawyer Jayshree Patil, on whose criminal writ petition the high court had ordered the CBI probe, had filed a caveat in the top court seeking to be heard before any order is passed in the matter. After the high court order on Monday, Deshmukh, a veteran politician from Vidarbha, resigned from the state government. The high court said it was an "extraordinary" and "unprecedented" case that warranted an independent inquiry. In its 52-page judgement, the high court said Singh's allegations against Deshmukh had put at stake the citizen's faith in the state police. Such allegations, made by a serving police officer, against the state home minister could not be left unattended, and were required to be probed into, if prima facie, they made a case of a cognisable offence, the high court said. It said a probe by an independent agency was necessary in the case, to "instill public confidence and safeguard the Fundamental Rights of the citizens". The high court had pronounced the verdict on three public interest litigations (PILs) and a criminal writ petition filed last month, seeking several reliefs as also a CBI probe into the matter. One of the PILs was filed by Singh himself, and the other two were filed by lawyer Ghanshyam Upadhyay and local teacher Mohan Bhide. The criminal writ petition was filed by Patil. The high court had ordered the CBI inquiry on Patil's plea. The court also disposed of all the pleas. Singh, in his plea filed on March 25, sought a CBI probe against Deshmukh who, he claimed, had asked police officers, including suspended cop Sachin Waze, to extort Rs 100 crore from bars and restaurants. Deshmukh has denied any wrongdoing. The high court had also said the nature of the allegations and the subsequent proceedings were unprecedented, and something that the two judges presiding over the pleas had never seen before. It said all courts were committed to ensuring the rule of law and preventing any breach of Constitutional principles, irrespective of the high office an accused occupied. The court said even though the state government had ordered a high-level committee to probe into the allegations, an inquiry based on Patil's complaint was necessary as per the law. Since the police investigating complaints against the home minister and a serving police officer would not be most appropriate, it is a fit case for ordering a CBI probe, the high court said. It directed the CBI director to conduct a preliminary inquiry based on Patil's complaint and a letter written by Param Bir Singh to state Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray that Patil had attached to her complaint. The high court said the CBI need not immediately register an FIR, but it must complete its inquiry within 15 days and then decide on further course of action.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-227
06-04-2021||India||CPI(M) demands enquiry into Rafale deal||The CPI(M) has demanded an enquiry into the Rafale fighter jet deal after a French media report claimed that Euro 1.1 million was paid to a "middleman" by the aircraft manufacturer. The BJP has already denied the allegation in the French media report as baseless. "The current revelation in a French media portal that one million euros were paid to a 'middleman' in the deal to buy 36 Rafale jets has once again raised the issue of kickbacks and other illegal payments in the Rafale deal. The report is based on an analysis of the Dassault company's accounts of 2017," CPI(M) politburo said in a statement. "The dogged refusal by the (Narendra) Modi government to order a probe into the Rafale deal raises suspicion that it has something to hide in the matter. The CAG audit report could not obviously look into the issue of illegal payments," it said. It demanded a high-level investigation into the cancellation of an earlier order and the issuance of a fresh order for 36 fighter jets. According to Mediapart, its report was based on an investigation by the country's anti-corruption agency Agence Francaise Anticorruption (AFA), which found that after inking the deal, payment was made by Dassault Aviation, the manufacturer of Rafale fighter jets. According to the report, the manufacturer has not been able to answer the queries posed by the AFA.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-227
06-04-2021||India||Justice Ramana appointed as next Chief Justice of India ||Senior-most Supreme Court judge Justice Nuthalapati Venkata Ramana was on Tuesday appointed as the next Chief Justice of India. According to a notification issued by the government, Justice Ramana would take over as the 48th CJI on April 24 after incumbent CJI S A Bobde demits office a day before. Justice Ramana would retire on August 26, 2022. "In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (2) of Article 124 of the Constitution of India, the President is pleased to appoint Shri Justice Nuthalapati Venkata Ramana, Judge of the Supreme Court, to be the Chief Justice of India with effect from 24th April, 2021," the notification read. As per convention, Principal Secretary to the prime minister P K Mishra and Secretary (Justice) in the Law Ministry Barun Mitra handed over the warrant of appointment signed by the President to Justice Ramana this morning, sources said. Justice Bobde had recently recommended Justice Ramana as his successor in keeping with convention and norms of seniority. The CJI's recommendation to the union government had came on a day when the Supreme Court had made public its decision to dismiss a complaint of Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy against Justice Ramana after giving the matter "due consideration". As per norms, a written communication from the incumbent Chief Justice is sent a month before his retirement. Born on August 27, 1957 in Ponnavaram village of Andhra Pradesh's Krishna district, Justice Ramana was enrolled as an advocate on February 10, 1983. He was appointed as a permanent judge of the Andhra Pradesh High Court on June 27, 2000 and functioned as acting Chief Justice of the Andhra Pradesh High Court from March 10, 2013 to May 20, 2013. Justice Ramana was elevated as the Chief Justice of Delhi High Court on September 2, 2013 and was appointed as a Judge of the Supreme Court on February 17, 2014. Justice Ramana has dealt with several high-profile cases in the apex court. A five-judge constitution bench headed by Justice Ramana had in March last year declined to refer to a larger seven-judge bench a batch of pleas challenging the constitutional validity of the Centre's decision to abrogate provisions of Article 370. He was part of a five-judge constitution bench which had in November 2019 held that office of the CJI is a public authority under the Right to Information Act. In the November 2019 verdict, the top court had also said that "judicial independence has to be kept in mind" while disclosing information in "public interest". In an another important verdict, Justice Ramana-led bench had in January last year held that freedom of speech and conducting business on the Internet are protected under the Constitution and had directed the Jammu and Kashmir administration to immediately review curb orders. The bench had directed the authorities in the Union Territory to immediately review all orders suspending Internet services and said orders not in accordance with the law must be revoked. He was also a part of a five-judge constitution bench of the top court which had in a landmark verdict in 2016 ordered restoration of the Congress government in Arunachal Pradesh, saying the "clock should be turned back", as it quashed all decisions of the Governor that precipitated its fall in January, holding them "violative" of the Constitution. In November 2019, a bench led by Justice Ramana had ordered floor test for then Maharashtra Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis to prove his majority in the House saying there is a "possibility of horse trading" in case of delay. Justice Ramana-led bench has also dealt with a plea which raised the issue of inordinately delay in disposal of criminal cases against former and sitting lawmakers. In September last year, the bench had said there has been no substantial improvement in disposal of pending criminal cases against sitting and former lawmakers and directed the chief justices of high courts to submit an action plan for rationalisation of special courts to deal with these matters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-227
06-04-2021||India||Night curfew in Delhi from 10 pm to 5 am in view of rising Covid cases||In view of rising COVID-19 cases in Delhi, the Arvind Kejriwal government on Tuesday imposed seven hours of night curfew with immediate effect but exempted people of certain professions from it. The decision was taken after the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) reviewed the COVID-19 situation in the city. The DDMA order for curfew from 10 pm to 5 am will continue till April 30. People travelling during curfew hours for COVID-19 vaccination will require s soft or hard copy of an e-pass which can be obtained from the website www.delhi.gov.in. According to the order issued by the chief secretary and chairperson of the executive body of DDMA, a sudden increase in COVID-19 cases in the recent past along with a high positivity rate has been observed in the national capital. "It is felt that night curfew needs to be imposed in the NCT (National Capital Territory) of Delhi from 10 pm to 5 am, except for essential activities and services, as an emergency measure for the wellbeing and safety of people," the order stated. Those exempted from the night curfew include pregnant women, patients, those travelling to and from airports, railway stations, state bus terminus on showing tickets, officials related to the functioning of offices of diplomats, and those holding any constitutional post on the production of valid identity card. Central and Delhi government officials involved in emergency services such as health and family welfare and all related medical establishments, police, prisons, home guards, civil defence, fire and emergency services will also be exempted. Officials of district administration, pay and accounts office, electricity, water and sanitation, public transport, disaster management and related services, NIC, NCC and municipal services, and all other essential services will also be exempted from the night curfew on the production of valid identity card. Private medical personnel such as doctors, nursing staff, paramedical, and other hospital services, diagnostic centres, clinics, pharmacies, pharmaceutical companies and other medical and health services will be exempted, the order stated. Movement of persons related to commercial and private establishments, including grocery, fruits and vegetable shops, dairy and milk booths, meat and fish, animal fodder, medical equipment shops, banks, insurance offices and ATMs, private security agencies, mediapersons, telecom and Internet services, Information Technology and IT-enabled services, e-commerce of essential services, will be allowed on production of e-pass. Employees of petrol pumps, LPG, CNG, petroleum and gas retail and storage outlets, power generation, transmission and distribution units, cold storage and warehousing services, manufacturing units of essential commodities will also be exempted on carrying e-pass. Public transport such as Delhi Metro, DTC and cluster buses, autos and taxis will be allowed to ply within the stipulated time for transportation of only exempted categories of people during night curfew, said the order. However, there will be no restriction on inter-state and intra-state transportation of essential and non-essential goods. No separate permission or e-pass will be required for such movements, it said. All district magistrates and deputy commissioners of police, as well as authorities concerned, will ensure strict compliance with the DDMA order. Enforcement authorities are required to note that these restrictions fundamentally relate to the movement of people, and not to that of essential goods and services, the order stated, adding violation of curfew restrictions will be dealt with under the relevant section of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, and Section 188 of the IPC and other applicable laws. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had on Friday said that Delhi is witnessing the fourth wave of COVID-19 but any decision on lockdown will be taken after due public consultation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-228
06-04-2021||India||Chhattisgarh Police exploring all channels to trace missing jawan||Police are exploring all channels, including contacting local villagers, to trace the missing CoBRA commando whom the Maoists claim to have abducted after an encounter in Chhattisgarh's Bastar region three days back, a senior official said on Tuesday. Police informers have also been activated to gather information about the missing jawan, he said. Constable Rakeshwar Singh Manhas, of the 210th battalion of CoBRA (Commando Battalion for Resolute Action), an elite unit of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), went missing on Saturday after the gunfight along the border of Sukma and Bijapur districts. Twenty two security personnel were killed and 31 others were injured in the fierce gun-battle. A journalist from Sukma on Monday said he had got a call from Maoists, claiming that the commando is in their captivity and he will not be harmed. "As of now we cannot confirm that the missing jawan is in the captivity of Naxals as they haven't issued any statement or photographs in this connection. We are trying to trace him through all possible channels," Inspector General of Police (Bastar range) Sundarraj P told PTI. The police are also contacting local villagers to check if they have any information related to the missing jawan, he said. Another senior police official posted in Bastar said there is a strong possibility of the jawan being in the captivity of Naxals, because the forces cordoned off the entire encounter site and area around it in the last two days, but could not find him. The CoBRA jawan was part of a squad that had gone for an anti-Naxal operation on Friday night in the forests of Bijapur and Sukma border. On Saturday, the gunfight broke between Tekalguda and Jonaguda villages in which 22 troopers were killed and 31 others injured. Out of the 22 fatalities, the CRPF lost eight men, including seven CoBRA commandos and a jawan from its Bastariya battalion, while eight of the other deceased were from the District Reserve Guard (DRG) and six from the Special Task Force (STF). Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Monday visited Jagdalpur and Bijapur to review the situation and said the government will intensify its ongoing fight against the Naxal menace.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-228
06-04-2021||India||India registers over 96,000 fresh Covid cases in a day||The daily rise in new coronavirus infections in India remained above 90,000 for the third consecutive day taking the nationwide COVID-19 tally of cases to 1,26,86,049, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. A total of 96,982 cases have been reported in a span of 24 hours, while the death toll increased to 1,65,547 with 446 daily new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. India on Monday recorded an all-time high of 1,03,558 single day new coronavirus infections in a span of 24 hours. Registering a steady increase for the 27th day in row, the active cases have increased to 7,88,223 comprising 6.21 per cent of the total infections, while the recovery rate has further dropped to 92.48 per cent, the data stated. The active caseload was at its lowest at 1, 35,926 on February 12 comprising 1.25 per cent of the total infections. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,17,32,279, while the case fatality rate has further dropped to 1.30 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 25,02,31,269 samples have been tested up to April 5 with 12,11,612 samples being tested on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-228
06-04-2021||India||Modi urges people to vote in large numbers||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday urged people to vote in large numbers in the assembly elections in Assam, Kerala, Puducherry, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal. Polling is taking place for 31 seats in the third of the eight-phase West Bengal assembly elections, while 40 seats are at stake in the final and third phase of the assembly elections in Assam. Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry are voting on Tuesday in single-phase assembly elections. "Elections are taking place in Assam, Kerala, Puducherry, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal. I request the people in these places to vote in record numbers, particularly the young voters," the prime minister tweeted. Modi also tweeted in Bengali, Assamese, Tamil and Malayalam, urging voters in the four states and the union territory of Puducherry to vote in large numbers and strengthen the festival of democracy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-228
06-04-2021||India||Defsys Solutions Pvt Ltd named as the recipient of 1 million euros from Dassault Aviation||Defsys Solutions Pvt Ltd, which has been named as the recipient of 1 million euros (Rs 8.62 crore) from Dassault Aviation of France in connection with the Rafale deal, is a company based in Hoskote, Karnataka, and was set up in January 2007. The company, owned by defence middleman Sushen Mohan Gupta, has a paid-up capital of Rs 6.95 crore and is “involved in research and experimental development on natural sciences and engineering”. “This class includes systematic creative work in the fields of research and development in natural sciences, medical sciences, agriculture and engineering and technology,” says Zauba Corp, a provider of commercial information and insights on businesses in India. The Defsys Solutions website does not contain any details about the promoters or the top management. The company says it holds a proven track record of “On Time” delivery of several advanced systems designed and developed in-house perfectly in line with the nation’s objective of “Atmanirbhar Bharat”. Sushen Gupta came into the limelight in 2019 when he was accused by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) of a key role in the AgustaWestland chopper scam. He was then an alleged defence agent. Sushen Gupta could not be contacted by this newspaper on Monday for comment. The ED had then reportedly claimed that Sushen Gupta held classified documents and sensitive information pertaining to the defence ministry, the Indian Air Force and Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd (HAL). Its charge was that he allegedly paid almost Rs 56 crore as kickbacks to influential people to swing the deal in favour of AgustaWestland. The ED’s chargesheet had alleged that kickbacks from AgustaWestland and other deals were placed in the bank accounts of Interstellar Technologies, a company controlled by Sushen Gupta, and the accounts of Rajiv Saxena, an accused-turned-approver. In the AgustaWestland kickback case, the ED had said that Sushen Gupta was the key link to Ratul Puri, nephew of former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Kamal Nath and former MD of optical storage device maker Moser Baer India. In the case filed before Delhi High Court against Ratul Puri, the ED had claimed that Puri’s role in the AgustaWestland kickbacks was established “post the deportation of Rajiv Saxena and the arrest of Sushen Gupta”. Defsys Solutions has offices in Gurgaon, Bangalore and Hyderabad. According to its website, it provides advanced solutions for a variety of defence and aerospace applications. The company also claims to have experience in design, manufacture and integration of advanced electronic systems. It is involved in the design and manufacture of integrated electronic systems, electro-optical payloads, thermal imagers, flight and firing simulators, weapon replicas, electro-mechanical systems, on-board electronic sub-systems, and automated test equipment (ATE) among other things. In a media statement issued earlier this month, Defsys Solutions had said that under the expertise of Sushant Gupta (his relationship with Sushen Gupta could not be ascertained), it had achieved another milestone in the design, development and production of the 450mm Gimbal Payload Assembly (GPA) for the DRDO lab of the Government of India. The statement added that the GPA was intended to be used with multiple sensors for the Airborne EOIR system to be deployed on the upcoming Multi-Mission Maritime Aircraft (MMMA) of the Indian Coast Guard. The Guptas have also acted as agents of Pratt and Whitney, the maker of engines for airplanes. “India Avitronics, a company founded by his grandfather Brij Mohan Gupta, has an association with Pratt & Whitney as their India agents going back to many decades,” a Cobra Post report has said. A report by India Today in 1986 detailing the role of middlemen in defence contracts said Brij Mohan Gupta and his sons -- Deb Mohan, Surinder Mohan and Harsh Mohan Gupta – belonged to a family of old Delhi cloth merchants who entered the business of aviation just after the Second World War. Sushen Gupta owns a number of other companies and several of them have their registered offices in Delhi’s upmarket locality in Hailey Road. These include software publishing and supply company Actia India Pvt Ltd, and real estate entities like Kairali Estate and Exports Pvt Ltd and American Hotels and Restaurants Pvt Ltd. Gupta is also listed as a director on several other companies: Horizon Air Support Maintenance (India) Pvt Ltd, DM South India Hospitality Pvt Ltd, DM Luxury Resorts Pvt Ltd, Foresight Solutions Pvt Ltd, Darun Hospitality LLP, Deftronics (India) Pvt Ltd, DM Power Pvt Ltd, and Chowgule Resorts Pvt Ltd.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-228
06-04-2021||India||Rafale:  Dassault paid one million euros to Indian middleman, says French report||The Rafale deal involved the payment of 1 million euros to an Indian middleman by the fighter aircraft maker Dassault, a French media report said on Sunday. The report contradicts assertions by both the Indian and French governments in the past that no middlemen were involved in the inter-government agreement. It also breathes fresh life into a scandal that has survived a refusal by the Supreme Court of India to order a probe, vehement denials and an attempt by the Narendra Modi government to construe the mandate of the 2019 general election as a clean chit, and silence by large sections of the media. The report by Mediapart, which describes itself as an independent French online investigative journal, noted that the deal had “threatened to tarnish” both governments. “In India, it implicated someone very close to the ultra-nationalist Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who had announced the deal in April 2015. The affair potentially threatens two Presidents of France: François Hollande and his successor Emmanuel Macron. Also potentially in the firing line is Jean-Yves Le Drian, who as defence minister effectively became Hollande’s roving Rafale salesman before being named foreign minister under Macron,” according to the report. It said France’s anti-corruption agency, Agence Française Anticorruption (AFA), found that an expenditure of 508,925 euros was incurred by Dassault under the heading “gifts to clients” during an audit of the company’s accounts of 2017. In the first of a three-part exposé released on Sunday night, Mediapart said: “French and Indian investigators, in fact, discovered a great deal of compromising information in the background to the deal; hidden commissions, dubious middlemen, suspicions of confidential documents being leaked and anti-corruption clauses being removed from contracts. But the affair was buried in both countries.” Even in this instance, Mediapart suggests that the AFA, which is answerable to both the budget ministry and the justice ministry in France, did not refer the matter to prosecutors “against all apparent logic”. The AFA’s inspectors found that Dassault had agreed to pay 1 million euros to a middleman just after the Rafale deal was signed in 2016. “That middleman is now accused of money laundering in India in another defence deal. The company said the money was used to pay for the manufacture of 50 large replica models of Rafale jets, even though the inspectors were given no proof that these models were made,” Mediapart said. Citing a confidential report by the AFA, Mediapart said the agency found the amount of 508,925 euros spent for gifts to clients “disproportionate in relation to all the other entries” under the same heading. “The sum is indeed huge for a gift. Though French law does not set out precise limits, legal precedents suggest that giving a watch or an expensive meal costing several hundred euros can be enough to constitute corruption,” Mediapart commented. As justification for this “larger than usual gift”, Dassault supplied the AFA with a “proforma invoice” dated March 30, 2017, provided by an Indian company, Defsys Solutions. From the AFA report, Mediapart quoted: “This invoice, which related to 50 per cent of the total order (€1,017,850), was for the manufacture of 50 models of the Rafale C, with a price per unit of €20,357.” The AFA sought an explanation from Dassault, asking why it had ordered an Indian company to make models of its own aircraft, at 20,000 euros a plane; why this expenditure was entered in the accounts as a “gift to client”, and whether these models -- each was supposed to be the size of a small car -– were ever made. “Mediapart understands that Dassault was unable to provide the AFA with a single document showing that these models existed and were delivered, and not even a photograph. The inspectors thus suspected that this was a bogus purchase designed to hide hidden financial transactions,” the news report said. Defsys Solutions, which purportedly sold the Rafale models, is one of Dassault’s sub-contractors in India on the Rafale contract. The Defsys Solutions website does not specifically indicate that it creates aircraft models though design and manufacture of “weapon replicas” is part of its repertoire. The one-million-euro invoice for the jet fighter models was sent to Dassault in March 2017 – six months after the September 2016 signing of the Rafale deal by the defence ministers of the two countries – by Sushen Gupta, who was arrested in March 2019 by the Enforcement Directorate on charges of money laundering in the AgustaWestland chopper case. “Sushen Gupta’s arrest and the revelations in the Indian press did not escape the notice of the Agence Française Anticorruption. By 2020, when it came to finalise its report of its Dassault audit, the AFA had hard information incriminating Dassault: the proof that the aeronautical company had paid an Indian middleman – and one who had since been accused in a separate case -- via a one-million-euro deal for model aircraft that may not even exist,” the Mediapart report said. “Yet the director of the AFA, Charles Duchaine, decided not to refer the matter to the prosecution authorities. Instead, the aircraft models issue was relegated to two short paragraphs in the AFA’s final report on its Dassault audit.” In India, the Rafale deal has been mired in controversy ever since Prime Minister Modi announced it during his April 2015 visit to France, primarily because then foreign secretary S. Jaishankar had in a pre-departure briefing told the media that the Premier would not be discussing it during his meetings. Asked if any progress could be expected on the negotiations for the Rafale deal, Jaishankar – who is now the foreign minister – said: “My understanding is that there are discussions under way between the French company, our ministry of defence, HAL (Hindustan Aeronautics Limited) which is involved in this. These are ongoing discussions. These are very technical, detailed discussions. We do not mix up leadership-level visits with deep details of ongoing defence contracts. That is on a different track. A leadership visit usually looks at big-picture issues even in the security field.” Three days later, in a surprise move, the Prime Minister announced at a joint media meeting with then French President Francois Hollande that India had ordered 36 ready-to-fly Rafale jets, thereby junking the earlier deal for which negotiations had begun during the UPA years. The terms of the Rs 59,000-crore deal, formally signed in September 2016, had an offset clause, according to which the supplier had to spend half the money in India. Dassault Aviation decided to end its negotiations with HAL and created a joint venture with Anil Ambani’s Reliance Infrastructure to meet its offset obligations, leading to allegations of the Modi government giving preferential treatment to the Ambanis. This allegation got more traction after Hollande told Mediapart in September 2018 that France did not have a choice but to partner with the Ambani group. To a question on who selected Reliance Infrastructure and why, Hollande -– who by September 2018 had stepped down from office -– said: “We did not have a say in that. The Indian government proposed this service group, and Dassault negotiated with Ambani. We did not have a choice, we took the interlocutor we were given.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-228
06-04-2021||India||Isro case: Centre moves Supreme Court seeking urgent hearing||The Centre on Monday urged the Supreme Court to take action on the court-appointed panel’s recommendation for action against certain officials responsible for falsely implicating eminent Isro scientist S. Nambi Narayanan in the 1994 alleged espionage case. A bench headed by Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde said it understands the importance of the matter but there was no need for any urgent listing as urged by solicitor-general Tushar Mehta. “We understand the importance. But there is no urgency in it. Let’s have it next week,” the bench, also comprising Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian, told the government law officer after he sought an urgent listing of the matter preferably on Tuesday. Mehta said the report by the high-level probe panel headed by retired apex court judge Justice D.K. Jain appointed by the Supreme Court to take erring cops to task for “anguish” caused to Narayan has been submitted. He said the sealed cover report be examined by the court on Tuesday for passing appropriate directions. While urging the court that the matter be listed for hearing on Tuesday, Mehta said: “It’s a national level case…” “Why tomorrow? We’ll list it next week,” CJI Bobde said. However, no specific date was fixed for the hearing. On September 14, 2018, sending a strong message to police that “malicious prosecution” would not be tolerated, the apex court had awarded a staggering Rs 50 lakh compensation to Narayanan, earlier arrested by Kerala police in the alleged espionage case. The apex court had also set up a committee headed by Justice Jain to determine the appropriate disciplinary action against the then investigating officers — S. Vijayan, the then inspector, special branch, Thiruvananthapuram city, K.K. Joshwa, the then deputy superintendent of police, CB-CID, Thiruvananthapuram and S. Siby Mathews, the then deputy inspector-general (crimes) — of the special investigation team. The bench of then Chief Justice Dipak Misra, Justices A.M. Khanwilkar and D.Y. Chandrachud had further clarified that the Rs 50 lakh compensation to Narayanan would be in addition to the Rs 1 crore defamation suit he had filed in a Kerala civil court which is still pending. It for the scientist to decide whether he wants to pursue the civil suit or not, the apex court had said. The apex court had passed the historic verdict on an appeal filed by Narayanan challenging a 2015 judgment of Kerala High Court refusing to order disciplinary action against the erring police officers for falsely implicating him and others in the case. The CBI, which had earlier taken up the espionage case, had also stated in a report that no case was made against Narayanan and others. Instead the central agency, which had taken up the investigation on the request of the state government, had recommended disciplinary action against the erring police officers for malicious prosecution and custodial torture of Narayanan. On January 20, 1994, an FIR was registered at Vanchiyoor police station against one Mariam Rasheeda, a Maldivian national, under Section 14 of the Foreigners Act, 1946, and paragraph 7 of the Foreigners Order for alleged espionage activities. Subsequently, in November 1994, cases under the Official Secrets Act were also registered in which another Maldivian national Fousiya Hasan, D. Sasikumaran, a scientist, and Narayanan, were all arrested. On December 4, 1994, upon a request from the state government the CBI took over the case. After the investigation, the CBI submitted a report before the chief judicial magistrate, Ernakulam, under Section 173(2) of the CrPC stating that the evidence collected indicated that the allegations of espionage against the scientists at Isro and the other accused were not proved. The trial court, while accepting the CBI report on May 2, 1996, discharged all the accused. On June 27, 1996, the Kerala government, being dissatisfied with the CBI report, issued a notification withdrawing the earlier one issued to entrust the matter to the agency and decided to conduct re-investigation of the case by the state police. This notification for re-investigation was challenged by Narayanan before the high court, which on November 27, 1996, however, upheld the state’s decision to conduct a re-investigation. However, the Supreme Court on an appeal from Narayanan quashed the notification. In the meantime, the National Human Rights Commission in 2001 had also awarded a compensation of Rs 10 lakh to Narayanan. In 2015, Kerala High Court had also declined to order disciplinary action against the police officers, aggrieved by which Narayanan appealed in the apex court. In his appeal, Narayanan who personally appeared in the case during the hearing and was also represented by a senior advocate argued that the prosecution launched against him by the Kerala police was malicious for two reasons, the first being that it had a catastrophic effect on his service as a leading and renowned scientist at Isro thereby smothering his career, life span, savings, honour, academic work as well as self-esteem. Secondly, the arrest and incarceration for nearly 50 days had a total devastation of the peace of his entire family which is an ineffaceable individual loss, and the irreparable loss caused to the Isro space research programme of which he was a senior scientist.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-228
06-04-2021||India||CRPF jawan feared taken hostage by Maoists||The CRPF jawan missing since Saturday’s Maoist ambush in Chhattisgarh that killed 22 security personnel has been taken hostage by the insurgents, sources in the security establishment have told The Telegraph. The abducted constable, Rakeshwar Singh Manhas, is a resident of Jammu and Kashmir and a member of the CRPF’s elite Cobra commando unit. “We got a message from the Maoist leadership that he is in their custody. Talks are on with them to ensure his safe release. The Maoist leadership has assured us that no harm will come to him,” a security official attached to the Union home ministry said. He declined to reveal whether the Maoists had put up any demands in exchange for the constable’s release. A joint team from various police and CRPF units had apparently walked into a trap during an anti-Maoist combing operation on the Sukma-Bijapur border. The four-hour gun battle that followed killed 22 personnel and injured 31 while one jawan was declared missing. Security officials have alleged an intelligence failure and poor leadership by the CRPF commanders but CRPF director-general Kuldiep Singh has denied any lapses. Sources in the security establishment suspect the Maoists planned the ambush meticulously with the intention of drawing the forces in and then inflicting the maximum possible casualties. “Reports from the ground suggest that the Maoists used light machine guns, under-barrel grenade launchers and desi (indigenous) rockets,” a security official said. A CRPF officer posted in Chhattisgarh said: “The Maoists were conducting a ‘tactical counter-offensive campaign’ and were present in numbers giving arms training to their cadres inside the jungle. Their aim was to cause the maximum damage to the security forces.” Union home minister Amit Shah travelled to Chhattisgarh on Monday and chaired a high-level meeting at the Police Coordination Centre in Raipur. Chief minister Bhupesh Baghel and senior officers of the state police and the CRPF attended the meeting. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday criticised a statement issued by the CRPF chief that denied any intelligence failure and claimed that around 30 Maoists had been killed. Rahul alleged that the anti-Maoist operation was “incompetently” executed and “poorly designed”. The body of one Maoist, a woman, has so far been recovered. The rebels are known to carry off their dead and injured. “If there was no intelligence failure, then a 1:1 death ratio means it was a poorly designed and incompetently executed operation. Our jawans are not cannon fodder to be martyred at will,” Rahul tweeted. “No Indian jawan should face an enemy without body armour in the 21st century. It needs to be made available to every soldier.” Of those who died on Saturday, eight were from the CRPF — seven Cobra commandos and a jawan from the Bastariya battalion — eight from the District Reserve Guard and six from the state police’s special task force.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-228
06-04-2021||India||Shah was busy campaigning when jawans were killed in Chhattisgarh: Congress||The Congress on Monday asked if Amit Shah was a “holy cow” in the Narendra Modi government who could not be questioned despite his indifference to the massacre of jawans, pointing out that he had continued to hold election rallies even after the worst Maoist attack in four years that has left 22 CRPF men dead. In the past, a home minister had to quit because he had changed his clothes on the day of a terror attack, Congress spokesperson Randeep Surjewala recalled. “The encounter between the Maoists and security personnel took place on Bijapur-Sukma border in Chhattisgarh at 11.30am on April 3. The first reaction of the home minister came after 24 hours. What was Amit Shah doing all this while? He was doing roadshows and addressing election rallies. Can a home minister be so cruel, so irresponsible?” Surjewala asked. “When the encounter happened, Amit Shah was doing a roadshow in Thousand Lights Assembly constituency in Tamil Nadu. The ex-CRPF chief was present in Chhattisgarh and he is always on hotline with the home minister. But Shah went to address another public rally in Tirunelveli and then moved to Kerala for an election rally in Sultan Bathery and then a roadshow in Kozhikode. “When the bodies of our jawans were lying on the roads, the home minister was doing roadshows. Has any home minister in independent India behaved in this manner? I know Amit Shah is a holy cow and nobody can question him but can the home minister behave so irresponsibly? Next day also, he went to Assam and addressed a public rally in Sarbhog. He finally did a favour to the country by cancelling his next two rallies in Assam and talked to the media about the Chhattisgarh tragedy.” Surjewala recalled how Shivraj Patil had to resign as home minister in the wake of the Mumbai terror strike because the media pounced on him for changing clothes during the day. “Here the home minister is doing roadshows and doesn’t even react for 24 hours, but nobody is asking questions. No rescue party was sent to the spot for 24 hours. How can such a person continue as home minister?” The Congress had also raised questions when Prime Minister Narendra Modi continued shooting for a documentary when the news of Pulwama attack came. The Congress also has raised questions about the handling of the anti-insurgency operation in Chhattisgarh and pointed finger at intelligence failure. Rahul Gandhi tweeted: “If there was no intelligence failure then a 1:1 death ratio means it was a poorly designed and incompetently executed operation. Our Jawans are not cannon fodder to be martyred at will.” In another tweet he said: “No Indian jawan should face an enemy without body armour in the 21st century. It needs to be made available to every soldier.” Over 5,000 Naxalite-related violence have occurred since the Narendra Modi government assumed office besides a large number of major terror strikes, including the daring raid on the Pathankot Air Force base and the army camp in Uri.Even the number of civilians and soldiers who have died during this phase is much higher compared with the previous regimes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-228
06-04-2021||India||Rafale: Congress asks Modi to answer questions thrown up by French media report||The Congress on Monday asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to answer the questions thrown up by a French media report on “hidden commissions and dubious middlemen” in the Rafale fighter aircraft deal. Citing findings by the French investigating agency AFA (Agence Francaise Anticorruption), the Mediapart report confirmed the payment of 1 million euros (Rs 8.6 crore) to the Indian company and promised to reveal more in successive parts of the exposé. The Congress, which had led the Opposition in accusing Prime Minister Modi of wrongdoing in relation to the fighter jet deal with France, levelled allegations of “commissions” and “middleman” and repeated its demand for a thorough investigation. According to the Congress, the BJP-led government bought the jets at a higher price compared with one negotiated earlier by the UPA, and that Modi had personally intervened to ensure the offset contract went not to public-sector Hindustan Aeronautics Limited but a company owned by Anil Ambani. “The devastating sensational revelations in the last evening report of French news portal/agency — Mediapart.fr — have now revealed existence of middleman, payment of commission and red flags raised by the French Anti-Corruption Agency — AFA,” Congress communications chief Randeep Surjewala said at a news conference on Monday. “The allegations of causing losses to the public exchequer, bribery and payment of commission in India’s biggest defence deal once again stare the Modi government in the face.” Surjewala said the purchase of 36 Rafale fighters from French company Dassault Aviation was a sordid saga of “squandering national interest, propagating the culture of crony capitalism and violation of the mandatory aspects of procurement prescribed in the Defence Procurement Procedure”. “An investigation conducted by the AFA has now revealed that after the signing of the deal in 2016, Dassault paid 1.1 million euros to a middleman i.e. Defsys Solutions. This amount was shown as expenditure by Dassault (under) ‘gifts to clients’.” “Defsys Solutions, the company mentioned in the report (which is a sub-contractor in the deal) is actually a company undertaking the assembly of flight simulators and optical and electronic systems, etc,” Surjewala said. “Was the payment of 1.1 million euros, shown by Dassault as ‘gifts to clients’, in reality a commission paid to middleman for the Rafale deal? How can ‘middleman’ and ‘payment of commission’ be permitted in a ‘government-to-government defence contract’ or in any defence procurement in India in violation of the mandatory Defence Procurement Procedure?” Surjewala asked the Prime Minister to answer these questions. “Does it now not require a full and independent investigation into India’s biggest defence deal to find out how much bribery and commission in reality, if any, was paid and to whom in the Indian government?” he said. Surjewala suggested the courts were not equipped to probe the whole gamut of violations and the only capable instrument was a joint parliamentary committee. He said that’s why the Congress had never gone to the Supreme Court over the matter. BJP’s stand Hitting back at the Congress, BJP leader and Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad dismissed as “completely baseless” the allegations of corruption in the Rafale deal. He said the Opposition party made a big issue of the defence deal in 2019 Lok Sabha polls but lost badly. The Supreme Court had rejected a demand for a probe in the purchase of the fighter aircraft and the CAG also found nothing wrong, Prasad said. The allegations of corruption were “completely baseless”, the minister said, and suggested that a report in the French media about the alleged financial irregularity in the deal may be due to “corporate rivalry” in that country. Prasad said: “the Congress is raising the Rafale issue again. It lost in the Supreme Court. They campaigned in the 2019 polls on the Rafale issue, threw all kinds of abuses at the Prime Minister and still lost. How many seats did it get?” The minister noted that Sushen Gupta, the alleged middleman whose name has cropped up in the French report on the Rafale deal, was arrested in the AgustaWestland case by the Enforcement Directorate in 2019. In this probe, the names of many Congress leaders had surfaced, Prasad said and accused the Congress of trying to “weaken” the security forces. The Indian Air Force received a fleet of fighter aircraft from Rafale after 30 years, he said, adding that had they been there the during the time of the Balakot operation, Indian aircraft would not have to cross the borders to carry out the strike.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-228
06-04-2021||India||Anil Deshmukh resigns, BJP guns for Uddhav Thackeray||Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh resigned on “moral grounds” on Monday after Bombay High Court ordered a CBI probe into allegations of corruption levelled against him by former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh. Singh’s allegations are baseless but the party respects the court and hence the minister has quit, NCP spokesperson Nawab Malik said. The truth will come out, he added. Dilip Walse Patil of the NCP has been named the new home minister. Hours after Deshmukh stepped down, the BJP demanded chief minister Uddhav Thackeray’s resignation. “Anil Desmukh in his letter has said that he was resigning on moral grounds. How about the moral responsibility of the chief minister?” law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad asked. “I think Mr Uddhav Thackeray has forfeited the moral authority to govern,” Prasad, who was fielded by the party to raise the heat, said. The BJP, which has been trying to destabilise the Opposition government in Maharashtra for a long time, looked elated on Monday as the high court ordered a CBI probe. The party feels that a CBI probe into the corruption allegations against Desmukh would lead to the chief minister’s resignation and pave the fall of the Maha Vikas Aghadi government of the Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress combine. “You (Uddhav) always defended your minister, who has resigned on moral grounds today. But where is your morality?” Prasad asked. He said the CBI should conduct a thorough probe into the corruption issue, stressing that it was “beyond Desmukh”. The ruling alliance in Maharashtra fears the central probe agency could be used to destabilise its government. Though Desmukh quit after the high court ordered a CBI probe, the government has decided to challenge the decision in the Supreme Court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-229
06-04-2021||India||50 public health teams sent to tackle Covid surge||India on Monday recorded 103,558 new Covid-19 cases over the previous 24 hours, amid indications the number of active patients under the current epidemic growth rate would within days surpass the previous peak count of about a million. The Union health ministry said the country’s total caseload of active patients on Monday increased by over 50,200 to around 741,800, only about quarter of a million cases less than the peak count of a little over one million recorded during mid-September last year. Eight states — Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh and Punjab — currently show the sharpest rise in daily new cases and account for nearly 82 per cent of the country’s new cases. Maharashtra alone accounted for more than 57,000 daily new cases followed by about 5,000 in Chhattisgarh, 4,500 in Karnataka and about 4,000 each in Chhattisgarh and Delhi. The Centre has sent 50 public health teams to 30 districts in Maharashtra, 11 districts in Chhattisgarh, and nine in Punjab for control measures in areas that have reported “very large numbers of daily new Covid-19 cases and daily deaths”. The teams will guide local authorities on testing, contact tracing, surveillance and containment measures, hospital infrastructure, intensive care, ventilators and oxygen, enforcement of Covid-19 appropriate behaviour by the public and vaccination. Health officials and critical care medicine specialists are concerned that at this growth rate, the caseloads could quickly overwhelm healthcare facilities in some areas, particularly intensive care units and ventilators. A top health official has said the Centre and states had collectively last year prepared hospital facilities to meet a daily new case count of about 150,000 patients. But doctors underline that the average doesn’t really matter when neither hospital facilities nor infections are unevenly distributed. “The previous wave didn’t go beyond about 97,000 daily cases — so the nation as a whole did not experience any gross shortages in facilities, but there were times around April when many patients were unable to find place in hospitals,” a health expert said. The Centre has urged states to address laxity about wearing masks and avoiding crowds among the public and lack of appropriate and efficient public health and containment measures by local health authorities in areas with clusters of infections. The Union health ministry has directed states to aggressively pursue a policy to contain outbreaks and accelerate the vaccination campaign that hasn’t moved as fast as health officials had hoped it would because, some experts suspect, persisting levels of vaccine hesitancy among some recipients. The campaign has so far inoculated about 10.5 million people with both doses of the vaccines required to protect them. Medical advisers to the campaign are worried that at such a slow pace, the vaccination campaign will do little to curb the epidemic’s current growth phase. Illegal beneficiaries Amid the slow campaign, the health ministry has asked the Delhi government to send a showcause notice to two private hospitals in the national capital which had allegedly registered beneficiaries below the age of 45 years as healthcare and frontline workers to vaccinate them. The ministry said the hospitals had violated Covid-19 vaccination norms.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-229
06-04-2021||India||Yogi ‘live’ video clip with foul word||A video clip featuring Yogi Adityanath and containing a foul word attributed by some to the Uttar Pradesh chief minister has been widely circulated since Monday morning. No statement had come from the chief minister’s office till late night but a state information department official told reporters the video had been tampered and threatened legal action. He didn’t name anyone. News agency ANI, which had shot the video, denied that Adityanath had used foul words but did not elaborate. It posted a new video, saying it was retracting the previous “live sound byte (sic)”. Adityanath was having his statement recorded by ANI at the Civil Hospital here on Monday morning after taking his first Covid-19 vaccine dose. The video shows him thanking Prime Minister Narendra Modi and scientists for coming up with the vaccine, when there’s a moment of silence followed by a male voice uttering an expletive in a lower tone. Adityanath continues to be seen on the screen. Some Twitterati alleged the chief minister had spoken the abusive word. Surya Pratap Singh, a retired IAS officer who was among those to tweet the video (he did so at 8.59am), suggested that Adityanath was chiding the cameraman for interrupting him after a glitch. The Uttar Pradesh information department official who spoke to reporters said: “The video was edited mischievously. A few words were added at the end to tarnish the chief minister’s image. We are thinking of filing a case against those involved.” Contacted by this newspaper, Kamna Hajela, ANI bureau chief in Uttar Pradesh, said: “It’s all wrong. No such thing ever happened.” After government representatives alleged tampering, Surya Pratap, the former bureaucrat, tweeted at 2.23pm: “I openly dare all the video experts of the government, those aware of the law and forensic teams, to prove me wrong and arrest me.” At 2.40pm, he tweeted: “The camera auto aperture moved at 17th second, the camera person realised his mistake at 19th second, the CM was stopped, the immortal words broke out at 22th second.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-229
06-04-2021||India||Covid-19 curbs: Violence after coaching institutes shut in Bihar||In what appears to be the first case of violence over enforcing Covid-19 curbs, students went on the rampage in Sasaram town, the headquarters of Rohtas district in Bihar, for several hours on Monday after the administration tried to close down coaching institutes flouting the state government’s order to shut down all educational institutions till April 11. The students hurled brickbats, indulged in arson and disrupted traffic. They also attempted to torch the collectorate in Sasaram. The students became angry when the local administration team, including the executive officer of the Sasaram municipal council, went to close down coaching institutes running despite the state government’s order on Saturday to shut all educational institutions in the wake of the rising coronavirus cases. Thousands of students studying in the coaching centres in Gorakshani locality and adjacent areas in Sasaram came out on the streets as the team tried to enforce the government’s directions. They ran amok and started attacking the administration team and the police personnel accompanying it. As the ruckus increased, the team walked away and the students started attacking passers-by, vehicles and government property. They burnt tyres, pulled down steel drums and iron frames serving as road dividers and barricades and marched towards the collectorate. Shops and business establishments downed their shutters out of fear. Many of the students were heard saying that the “coaching centres are being shut down, but the government is holding all the entrance and job-related examinations despite a raging Covid-19 pandemic”. “How will we study and prepare if we cannot attend classes?” one of them asked. What followed over the next two hours was complete mayhem. The students in the age group of 16 to 25 years hurled brickbats, forcing the police personnel deployed in the area to flee. Sasaram Town police station in-charge Kamakhya Narayan Singh, several other policemen and a few journalists were injured. The students barged into the collectorate campus and started ransacking various offices. They also set fire to a visitors’ shed. Heavy police reinforcements, led by Rohtas superintendent of police (SP) Ashish Bharti, rushed in and resorted to mild lathicharge to control the situation. Several youths have been either detained or arrested from the spot. “The executive officer of the municipal council and police personnel had gone to enforce the Covid-19 guidelines. At that time some people, mainly students, started rioting after being instigated by some persons. They indulged in stone pelting, arson and created a law and order situation in the city. “The situation is under control now. Some people have been arrested and lawful action is being taken against them. An FIR is being registered against them as well as against the instigators,” Bharti said. Rohtas district magistrate Dharmendra Kumar issued an appeal to the people to adhere to the Covid guidelines. “Some owners of coaching institutes instigated the students to indulge in unlawful acts. We have got their video footages from different sources. The students are being identified and legal action is being taken against them,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-229
06-04-2021||India||Police seize Rs 50 lakh of unaccounted cash in Puri||Odisha police on Monday seized around Rs 50 lakh of unaccounted cash near Tarakaja Chhak under Pipili police station in Puri district. The Pipili Assembly constituency is going to witness a bypoll on April 17. Police detained two persons in connection with the incident and seized a motorcycle. Sources said during routine check on Monday afternoon near the Pipili check gate, police asked two persons riding a motorcycle to stop. But instead of stopping they sped away. Police chased them and seized the money from their possession. A ruling Biju Janata Dal delegation met the chief electoral officer and lodged a complaint about attempts by rival parties to influence voters by adopting unfair means. In a memorandum to the chief electoral officer Sushil Kumar Lohani, the BJD said, “Rs 50 lakh has been seized from two BJP leaders in Pipili today. Due to the growing fear within BJP of the losing the Pipili bypoll, the BJP has now been pumping in huge amounts of money in a bid to influence the Pipili-bypoll.” Demanding police patrolling and surveillance teams to be increased to ensure that the BJP does not become successful in its illegal activities of pumping money into the election, the party said, “We demand that strict investigation must be undertaken to trace these illegal funds and bring all those guilty to justice.” BJP spokesperson Lekhashree Samantasinghar told The Telegraph, “These allegations are totally false, baseless and fabricated one. The ruling party is in fear of losing the election and that’s the reasons they resort to such low level tactics. However, they will not be successful. We will ready for any kind of probe. People are with us.” Pipili has been a politically volatile constituency prone to violence. The byelection is being held to fill the vacancy caused by the death of BJD veteran Pradeep Maharathy who represented the constituency seven times. His son Rudra Pratap Maharathy is the BJD candidate this time. Chief minister Naveen Patnaik is likely campaign for his son. While retaining the seat is a prestige issue for the BJD, rival BJP is trying its best to snatch the seat away from the ruling party. The Congress, too, is a factor in this battle.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-229
