07-04-2021||India||Harsh Vardhan hits out at Maharashtra for vaccine shortage claims||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Wednesday hit out at Maharashtra and some other states, alleging them of trying to cover their "failures" and spreading panic among people by demanding vaccination of all without inoculating enough of eligible beneficiaries. He further said statements made by public representatives in Maharashtra about the shortage of vaccines were "nothing but an attempt to divert attention from Maharashtra government's repeated failures to control the spread of pandemic". Asserting that allegations of vaccine shortage are utterly baseless, Vardhan said Maharashtra's "testing is not up to the mark and their contact tracing leaves a lot to be desired". In a strong statement, he said, "It is shocking to see how the state Government is putting Maharashtrians in danger by letting people escape institutional quarantine mandates for the sake of their personal Vasuli. "Overall, as the state has lurched from one crisis to another, it seems as if the state leadership is happily sleeping at the wheels." About Chhattisgarh, he said regular comments have been made by leaders from the state "that are intended to spread misinformation and panic on vaccination". "I would like to humbly state that it would be better if the state government focuses its energies on ramping up their health infrastructure rather than on petty politicking," Vardhan said while flagging "disproportionately higher number of deaths in the last 2-3 weeks" in the state. He also said the state's testing remains heavily dependent on rapid antigen tests which is not a wise strategy. He further said many other states also need to bring their healthcare systems up to the mark. "For example, the quality of testing needs to improve in Karnataka, Rajasthan and Gujarat. In Punjab, the high Case Fatality Rate needs to be improved by early identification of those needing hospitalisation," he said. Vardhan said when states ask to open up vaccine supplies to everyone over 18, we must presume that they have done saturation coverage of healthcare workers, frontline workers and senior citizens. "But the facts are altogether different," he said while pointing out that Maharashtra has vaccinated just only 86 per cent of health workers with the first dose, while the equivalent numbers for Delhi and Punjab are 72 per cent and 64 per cent. On the other hand, 10 Indian states/UTs have done more than 90 per cent, he added. The minister further said Maharashtra has vaccinated just 41 per cent of healthcare workers with the second dose, while the same for Delhi and Punjab are 41 per cent and 27 per cent, though there are 12 Indian states/UTs that have done more than 60 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-225
07-04-2021||India||Government to allow Covid-19 vaccination at workplaces from Sunday||The government will allow Covid-19 vaccination at public and private workplaces having about 100 eligible beneficiaries from April 11 across states and Union territories. Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan in a letter to the chief secretaries said a substantial proportion of the population aged 45 years and above is in the organised sector of the economy and is involved in formal occupation in offices (government and private) or manufacturing and services. "In order to increase the access of vaccine to these populations, Covid-19 vaccination sessions may be organised at work places (both public & private) which are having about 100 eligible and willing beneficiaries by tagging these work places with an existing Covid vaccination centre," Bhushan said in the letter. He said the states can initiate due consultations with private/public sector employers and management to prepare for launch of workplace vaccination. "Such work place vaccination centres may be launched across states/Union territories from April 11, 2021," he said. The Centre has asked states and Union Territories to make adequate preparations and issued guidelines in this regard. According to the guidelines, only employees aged 45 years or more will be eligible for vaccination at work place and no outsiders including eligible family members will be allowed for vaccination. One of the senior staff of the organisation will be assigned to work as nodal officer to coordinate with district health authorities/ private Covid vaccination centres (CVCs) and support vaccination activities. The beneficiaries will be required to register in the Co-WIN portal prior to vaccination and CVC nodal officers will ensure registration of all targeted beneficiaries and facility of on-the-spot registration will also be available but only to employees of the workplace, the guidelines said. For optimal utilisation of resources, vaccination sessions will be planned at workplace CVC once at least 50 beneficiaries get registered for vaccination. "The schedule of vaccination sessions can be made up to 15 days in advance and intimated to the workplaces so that maximum attendance is ensured on the day of vaccination. In most of the workplaces vaccination schedules may, however, be completed in less than 15 days," the Centre told states and union territories in the guidelines. The District Task Force chaired by district magistrate and Urban Task Force chaired by municipal commissioner will identify such government and private workplaces after due deliberations with relevant employers. Every CVC in a government workplace will be tagged to an existing and nearest CVC in the government medical facility while every CVC in a private workplace will be tagged to an existing and nearest CVC in the private medical facility. The designated government and private CVC to whom the workplace CVC has been tagged will be responsible for deployment of the vaccination team at workplace CVCs. All government and private CVCs are already linked to some cold chain points for receiving vaccines. "These CVCs will continue to use the same mechanism to receive the vaccine needed for vaccination at tagged workplace CVC," the guidelines said. The healthcare workers of this health infrastructure of the workplace CVCs (such as doctors, nurses and other staff) may be deployed for the Covid-19 vaccination activities at workplaces as vaccination team members, it said. The workplace CVCs staff engaged in Covid-19 vaccination activities will follow the same SOPs for vaccination and reporting including management and reporting of adverse events following immunisation. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday batted for Covid-19 vaccine for all, saying every Indian "deserves the chance to a safe life". The health ministry on Tuesday said the vaccine needs to be given to those who need it and not those who want it. The Covid-19 vaccine is currently available to all Indians above the age of 45 years. "It's ridiculous to debate needs and wants. Every Indian deserves the chance to a safe life," Gandhi said on Twitter, using the hashtag "#CovidVaccine". Gandhi also lauded the health warriors on World Health Day and shared a picture of his with them on Instagram.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-225
07-04-2021||India||Bengal polls: Amit Shah holds road show in Singur||Union Home Minister Amit Shah held a colourful road show here on Wednesday, once a hot spot of the anti-land acquisition movement, and promised rapid industrialisation of the area if BJP is voted to power. The symbolism of the home minister holding a road show in Singur, three days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi held a rally there and alleged the "obstructionist mindset" of Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee deprived West Bengal of industries and jobs, was clear--the BJP wants to corner her over the state's dwindling industrial base and alleged job loss. Lustily cheered by crowds, Shah stood atop a decorated vehicle with BJP candidate for the Singur seat Rabindranath Bhattacharya, who recently joined the saffron party after leaving the Trinamool Congress, and smilingly waved at people standing by the roadside and on terraces and balconies. Speaking to reporters during the show, Shah said Singur, which has been shunned by industry since the 2006 agitation, will be developed by the next BJP government in the state. "We will develop the area by setting up industries and a Rs 500 crore intervention fund has been announced for potatoes, for which the area is known, in our Sankalp Patra (manifesto)," he said. Shah said, after winning the elections, the BJP government will ensure that small, medium and large industries are set up in Singur, situated beside the national highway connecting Kolkata and New Delhi. "We will pursue politics of development, dialogue and cooperation, instead of confrontation," he said. He said he welcomed TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee for invoking Hindu Gods and Goddesses, and for reciting Chandi Path (hymns to Goddess Durga) at public meetings, but quipped it was "too late for her". "The BJP will win Bengal elections with more than 200 seats in the kitty," he said. West Bengal has 294 assembly seats. Banerjee, often accused by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and other BJP leaders of minority appeasement, has been regularly chanting hymns and asserting her Hindu identity to keep the majority community in good humour. The road show meandered through the roads of Singur town for nearly an hour from Dulepara more to Singur police station, as colourful posters, BJP flags and green and saffron balloons dotted route. Chants of 'Jai Shri Ram' and slogans demanding industrialisation and jobs pervaded the air as the procession crawled through streets. Donning a saffron coloured turban, the 89-year-old Bhattacharya, a four-time TMC MLA from Singur before he left the party on being denied a ticket, waved at the crowd standing alongside Shah. Bhattacharya's induction and nomination had caused a lot of resentment among BJP old timers in Singur. Shah is scheduled to hold three more road shows in the state, including one in Kolkata, on Wednesday. Referring to the Singur movement of 2006-08 that forced Tata Motors to move out its proposed small car Nano's mother production unit from there, Modi had told an election meeting that the TMC used the place for political purpose and then left the people to fend for themselves. Singur, a small town in Hooghly district, has an old connection between Banerjee and Modi. The scene of an aggressive movement led by Banerjee against forcible land acquisition by the then Left Front government for the 'Nano' project, Singur, along with Nandigram, had catapulted the street fighter TMC leader to power in West Bengal in 2011. The sustained, and often violent, protests by the local farming community led by Banerjee forced the Tatas to move out of Singur. A cryptic 'Suswagatam' SMS from Modi, then the Gujarat chief minister, to Ratan Tata, the group chairman, is said to have clinched the deal in Gujarat's favour and led to the relocation of the project to Sanand near Ahmedabad. Many considered it as West Bengal's loss and Gujarat's gain.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-225
07-04-2021||India||Punjab extends night curfew to entire state, bans political gatherings||With Punjab witnessing a surge in coronavirus cases, Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Wednesday announced extension of night curfew to the entire state and ordered a ban on political gatherings. Singh said those violating the ban on political gatherings, including leaders, will be booked under the Disaster Management Act and the Epidemics Diseases Act. The chief minister said night curfew from 9 pm to 5 am, which was till now imposed in 12 districts, will be extended to all 22 districts of the state. As part of the fresh curbs, the number of people who can attend funerals and weddings has been reduced to 50 people indoors and 100 for outdoors. Wearing masks has been made mandatory for all government employees while in office, an official statement said, while detailing the fresh set of restrictions imposed as the number of Covid-19 cases continued to remain high in the state. These restrictions, coupled with the ones imposed earlier, which include closure of schools and educational institutions, shall remain effective till April 30. However, there was some respite for shop owners in malls, as the chief minister allowed entry of 10 people per shop at any given time, as against the earlier order of not allowing more than 100 people in the entire mall at one time. This would imply that 200 people will be allowed in a mall with 20 shops at any given time, said the statement. Punjab had on Tuesday reported 62 more fatalities due to Covid-19, pushing the toll to 7,216 while the state had witnessed 2,924 more coronavirus cases, taking the infection tally to 2,57,057. The chief minister, in his weekly review of the Covid-19 situation, expressed concern at the high positivity and mortality rates in the state. He said it was a matter of concern that over 85 percent of cases in Punjab are of the UK strain, which is more contagious and virulent. He said he had no option but to go in for stricter measures to further control the ongoing surge, even though the number of positive cases had somewhat stabilised in the last few days due to curbs imposed earlier.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-225
07-04-2021||India||Covid-19 vaccines in Maharashtra to only last for three days, says minister||Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope on Wednesday said the state has 14 lakh doses of Covid-19 vaccine which would last only three days, and many inoculation centres were being closed due to the shortage of the vaccine. Talking to reporters in Mumbai, Tope said people coming to such centres for taking jabs were being sent back as there was no supply of vaccine doses. "Fourteen lakh doses are available now which would last three days. We need 40 lakh vaccine doses every week. We can then administer six lakh doses every day in a week. The doses we are getting are not enough," he said. Tope said the state government was earlier vaccinating four lakh people in a day. "We accepted the challenge from the Centre to expedite the vaccination drive to six lakh per day. Now, we were vaccinating nearly 5 lakh people in a day," he said. The minister urged the Centre to give priority to Maharashtra, since the coronavirus cases were more in the state and the overall death toll was over 50,000. Maharashtra on Tuesday reported 55,469 fresh cases, while 297 deaths pushed the toll to 56,330, the state health department said. "Most of those infected now are in the age group of 25 to 40 years," Tope said. There is an urgent need to control the viral infection by increasing the immunity level of people and creating antibodies, Tope said. He also urged the National Centre for Disease Control to inform the states if the present infection spread is because of a new mutant strain of the virus. "If that is the case, please tell us what is the course of medication," he said. Earlier in the day, state principal secretary (health) Pradeep Vyas told PTI that several districts in Maharashtra will run out of the Covid-19 vaccine stock "today or tomorrow" and the Centre has been informed about it. Maharashtra can easily administer five lakh vaccine doses in a day if there is a clarity on schedule and availability, the official said. Tope said about 1,200 metric tonne oxygen is being manufactured in the state every day and the daily consumption is 700 metric tonne, of which 80 per cent is for medical use. The minister said he has urged the Centre to direct neighbouring states to facilitate oxygen supply to Maharashtra. Tope also asked all private doctors not to prescribe Remdesivir injections irrationally to hike the bills of Covid-19 patients, and that they should also follow the central government's guidelines on the use of the medicine. He said Maharashtra has followed the '3T' (testing, tracing and treatment) principles strictly and taken all steps to ensure Covid-appropriate behaviour by imposing prohibitory orders and night curfew to stop crowding. Nearly 82 lakh people have been vaccinated so far in Maharashtra since the roll-out of the inoculation drive. An official statement on Tuesday said Maharashtra had received 1.06 crore doses of the Covid-19 vaccine, out of which 88 lakh doses have been used while the wastage stood at three per cent. It said the state government will vigorously pursue its demand for more stock of vaccine doses, considering the rapid rise in the Covid-19 cases and expansion of the vaccination drive. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to allow people above 25 years to receive Covid-19 shots, which he said will protect the young people from the rapid spread of the viral infection at a time when they are stepping outside their homes to earn a livelihood. In a letter to the PM, Thackeray also demanded that Maharashtra be provided 1.5 crore additional doses of vaccines, which will enable the state government to complete within three weeks the vaccination of beneficiaries above 45 years of age in six districts, including Mumbai.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-225
07-04-2021||India||Ambani security scare: Param Bir Singh appears before NIA||Former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh appeared before the NIA here on Wednesday to record his statement in connection with the case of an explosives-laden SUV found near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's residence, an official said. Singh reached the National Investigation Agency's (NIA) office in south Mumbai in a car around 9.30 am, he said. Singh, who is currently director general of the Home Guards, was removed from the Mumbai police chief's post last month, following the recovery of the vehicle with explosives near Ambani's house on February 25 and the subsequent murder of Thane businessman Manuskh Hiran. According to sources, Singh was summoned by the NIA to record his statement in the case. The NIA last month arrested assistant police inspector Sachin Waze for his alleged role in planting the vehicle with explosives near Ambani's house in south Mumbai. It had also arrested suspended police constable Vinayak Shinde and cricket bookie Naresh Gor in connection with the murder of Mansukh Hiran, whose body was found in the Mumbra creek in neighbouring Thane on March 5.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-225
07-04-2021||India||Wearing mask compulsory even if driver is alone in car, rules Delhi HC||Wearing a mask while driving alone in a private vehicle is compulsory as it is a public place in the context of Covid-19, the Delhi High Court held on Wednesday and described face covering as a 'suraksha kavach' or protective shield against the spread of the infection. Justice Prathiba M Singh refused to interfere with the Delhi government's decision to impose challans for not wearing a mask while driving a private car alone, saying a vehicle even if occupied by one person would constitute a public place.
"There are several possibilities in which while sitting alone in the car one could be exposed to the outside world. Thus, it cannot be said that merely because the person is travelling alone in a car, the car would not be a public place.
"Wearing of a mask therein would be compulsory in the context of the Covid-19 pandemic," the court said. Masks are necessary irrespective of whether a person is vaccinated or not, it added.
Justice Singh's ruling and observations came while dismissing four petitions by lawyers who challenged the imposition of 'challans' for not wearing a mask while driving alone in a private vehicle.
"The wearing of a mask is like a 'suraksha kavach' for preventing the spread of Covid-19," the court said, noting that a mask protects the person wearing it and also those exposed to him or her.
The wearing of a face mask was "one measure which saved millions of lives" during the pandemic, it pointed out.
The court further noted in its verdict that upon the outbreak of the pandemic, globally as well as nationally, scientists, researchers, international organizations and governments emphasised the importance of wearing facial masks to control the spread of the disease.
"In the absence of a complete definitive cure, the world continues to wrestle with the pandemic. The challenge of the pandemic was enormous at the outbreak of the same and even with the introduction of a few vaccines, the emphasis continues to be laid on wearing face masks. The wearing of masks is necessary irrespective of whether a person is vaccinated or not," it said.
The lawyers, in their pleas, had contended that the District Magistrates who were vested with the powers to impose fines could not have sub-delegated the powers to others.
Disagreeing with the contention, Justice Singh said that the definition of 'authorised persons' being inclusive and expansive in nature, District Magistrates were also vested with powers to further authorise any officers to issue challans.
"The list of officers, who were authorised is broad and in the opinion of this court it has to be interpreted expansively and not restrictively....The challans have been issued by duly authorised officers. The prayer for quashing of the challans is thus not sustainable," the court said.
It further said that being lawyers and advocates, the petitioners "ought to recognise and assist in the implementation of the measures for curtailing the spread of the pandemic, instead of questioning the legality of the same".
Compliance of the measures by lawyers would encourage the general public to also comply with the same.
During the proceedings, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, represented by advocate Farman Ali Magray, had told the court that it has not issued any direction asking people to wear masks in a car when they are alone.
The ministry said health is a state subject and the Delhi government has to take a decision on it.
The Delhi government had told the court that wearing masks while driving an official or personal vehicle was made compulsory through an office order in April last year and it remained in force.
It also said a private vehicle was held to be a public place by the Supreme Court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-225
07-04-2021||India||India reports highest daily spike with over 1.15 lakh fresh Covid cases||The number of new coronavirus cases in India hit a record daily high since the outbreak of the pandemic with over 1.15 lakh new infections being reported in a span of 24 hours, pushing the nationwide COVID-19 tally to 1,28,01,785, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday. The single-day rise in coronavirus cases breached the 1-lakh mark for the second time in three days. A total of 1,15,736 infections were reported in a day, while the death toll increased to 1,66,177 with 630 daily new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. Registering a steady increase for the 28th day in row, the active cases have increased to 8,43,473 comprising 6.59 per cent of the total infections, while the recovery rate has further dropped to 92.11 per cent, the data stated. The active caseload was at its lowest at 1, 35,926 on February 12 comprising 1.25 per cent of the total infections. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,17,92,135, while the case fatality rate has further dropped to 1.30 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 25,14, 39,598 samples have been tested up to April 6 with 12,08, 339 samples being tested on Tuesday. The 630 new fatalities include 297 from Maharashtra, 61 from Punjab, 53 from Chhattisgarh, 39 from Karnataka, 30 from Uttar Pradesh, 18 from Madhya Pradesh, 17 each from Delhi and Gujarat, 15 from Tamil Nadu, 14 from Kerala, 13 from Rajasthan. A total of 1,66,177 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 56,330 from Maharashtra, 12,804 from Tamil Nadu, 12,696 from Karnataka, 11,113 from Delhi, 10,355 from West Bengal, 8,924 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,251 from Andhra Pradesh and 7,216 from Punjab. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-225
07-04-2021||India||Tamil Nadu polls 2021: Superstar Vijay cycles to cast his vote||Tamil superstar Vijay has thrown his countless fans into delirium through his grand entrances on screen. On election day in Tamil Nadu on Tuesday, he threw political parties into a tizzy by riding a bicycle to the polling booth. Was he sending a political message against the AIADMK-BJP combine over the steep fuel price hike? No, he was not, insisted the PRO of Vijay who has so far let only his characters do the political talking. But the political attention stayed focused on Thalapathy (commander or chief), as the hugely popular 46-year-old-actor is known. Vijay’s choice of transport appeared significant since some of his movie dialogues — on issues such as temple-building or the GST — had angered state BJP leaders enough to dog-whistle about his Christian faith although the actor has so far not shown any overt political ambitions or publicly backed any party. To many, the actor’s ride was proof that the recent income-tax raids on him — ahead of the release of his latest film Master, whose shooting had witnessed BJP protests — had not dampened his spirit. While Vijay’s silent gesture lacked the apocalyptic ring of superstar Rajinikanth’s assault on the AIADMK ahead of the 1996 Assembly polls, when he said “even God cannot save Tamil Nadu if Jayalalithaa returns to power”, his millions of fans were thrilled. Social media was agog. As is the wont during elections in Tamil Nadu, which braved scorching heat and the fears of a Covid resurgence to vote to elect a 234-member Assembly on Tuesday, an expectant posse of fans had gathered outside Vijay’s Chennai home from morning. A collective gasp went up as Vijay pedalled out on a high-end bicycle, sporting a pair of jeans, a light blue shirt and a mask. He zoomed through a narrow stretch of road leading to the booth, located in a south Chennai suburb that is part of the Sholinganallur constituency. Hundreds of his fans, their astonishment turned to exhilaration at what many described as their hero’s “inspirational act”, followed him in motorbikes and scooters. “It’s simplicity that makes him powerful,” a Vijay fan posted on Twitter where the actor has 30 lakh followers. What appeared to lend his act a further political tinge was that the two-wheeler was in black and red, the colours of the Opposition DMK flag. DMK politicians such as Central Chennai MP Dayanidhi Maran were quick to take to cyberspace and claim the bicycle ride was Vijay’s protest against the high petrol and diesel prices. “Will the central government wake up at least now?” a tweeter asked. “#Thalapathy makes a strong statement. Never afraid to take a dig at the rulers (AIADMK) and (ally) BJP. Like it or not, he is bold,” Vijay fan Dev Shak tweeted. As the “political significance” of Vijay’s bicycle ride began to dominate social media and television, his PRO issued a statement clarifying the actor had cycled to the booth as it was “very close to his house”. The road too was quite narrow and Vijay driving out in his car would have inconvenienced the other voters travelling to the booth, the PRO added. Vijay has generally played down any perception of being politically ambitious despite widespread talk about him as the next big political entrant from Tamil filmdom. Vijay has, however, never shied away from speaking his mind on political controversies, having adopted pro-Tamil stands when the state was forcibly brought under the ambit of the all-India medical entrance exam, the NEET, or when its traditional game of Jallikattu was banned. On Tuesday, as Vijay stepped out of the booth after voting and held up his left index finger with the ink mark, he was mobbed amid cries of “Thalapathy the brave”. Eventually, the actor had to leave his bicycle behind and hop onto the pillion of a fan’s scooter for a ride home. Celebrated actor and Makkal Neethi Maiyam founder-president Kamal Haasan has alleged he has information that the BJP is “intensely involved” in bribing voters in his constituency of Coimbatore South. “BJP men issued tokens to lure voters,” he told reporters, adding that these were to be later exchanged for cash or gifts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-226
07-04-2021||India||Odisha Covid protocol drive||Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Tuesday directed director general of police (DGP) to launch a 10-day drive to strictly enforce Covid protocols in the state and asked the collectors to involve the Panchayati Raj Institution (PRI) members and Mission Shakti groups to create awareness and enforcement of Covid guidelines. Naveen issued the direction following a meeting with senior officials in the evening on how to contain the spread of Covid-19 in the state. “This new wave of Covid virus seems to be more infectious and might create a devastating situation, if we don’t take it seriously. We will go strict in enforcement of covid norms at the institutional and individual level,” said Naveen. He also asked the chief secretary and other senior officials to visit western Odisha with high incidences of Covid positive cases and make on the ground assessment. Odisha is worried as the virus spread mainly concentrated in the districts adjoining the Chhattisgarh border. “There should be no complaints about non-responsiveness of ambulances or lack of beds in the hospital,” Naveen said. In view of the surge in Covid cases Puri administration has decided to restrict the entry of visitors to the pilgrim town. It has asked the Puri Hotel Owners’ Association to impose restrictions on people visiting the town from states such as Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Kerala, Punjab and Maharashtra where the incidence of Covid-19 is high. “We have been asked by the administration to allow visitors from these five states to check-in only after they produce RT-PCR negative reports. The reports must not be older than 72 hours.  The tourists without updates RT-PCR negative reports will not be allowed to enter stay in the hotels,” said Puri Hotel Owners Association president, Ramakrushna Das Mohapatra Meanwhile, Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation has sealed an engineering college and an apartment for violation of Covid guidelines. As many as 588 new corona positive cases were reported from different parts of the state on Tuesday with Khurda district leading the table.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-226
07-04-2021||India||Bihar to reactivate quarantine centres||In a 2020 redux, Bihar is going to reactivate quarantine centres to accommodate people, especially migrant labourers who have started returning from states like Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Rajasthan and others parts of the country, owing to the second wave of the corona pandemic as well as the return of the spectre of lockdowns. The Central Railway has already announced that it would run special trains from Mumbai and Pune in Maharashtra to Patna, Danapur and Darbhanga in Bihar and Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh. Maharashtra is currently the hardest hit state from Covid-19 and the government there has enforced night curfews on weekdays and lockdowns on weekends. “Coronavirus infections are rapidly spreading in other states. The people of Bihar are expected to return from there. We must keep quarantine centres ready at block levels,” Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar said on Tuesday. Nitish chaired a high-level meeting with his senior officials, district magistrates and superintendents of police to take stock of the Covid-19 situation in the state. Bihar is also witnessing a spike in coronavirus cases. The number of active cases has shot up to around 5,000 from 224 a month ago. Quarantine centres in cities like Patna have already been activated. The chief minister also instructed the officials to ensure Covid-19 tests for all frontline and healthcare workers along with their family members. He also called for increasing the number of daily tests being conducted across the state. Special plans will be made after analysing the spread of coronavirus infections, its reasons and the experiences gained so far. “The population of Bihar is huge. The disaster management department should be alert in the light of the challenges that may come in future. People should stay cautious at religious and crowded places,” Nitish said. He also appealed to the people to follow Covid-19 guidelines, wear masks, maintain social distancing and keep washing their hands frequently with soap. Bihar has already issued orders to curb gatherings at functions and closed down all educational institutions till April 11 in the wake of rising coronavirus cases. Meanwhile, 18 students have tested positive for Covid-19 at the IIT Patna campus, following their return after the Holi vacation. The students have been isolated at their hostel and the areas around it have been sanitised. Academic activities on the campus have been suspended for a week.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-226
07-04-2021||India||Covid: Govt health officials say all above 18 can't be vaccinated now ||India’s current vaccination campaign open to people 45 years or older seeks to minimise deaths and protect the most vulnerable, health officials asserted on Tuesday, rejecting arguments from sections of doctors and health experts that vaccines be offered now to all adults. The officials who had helped shape the country’s vaccination strategy said the campaign is in line with public health requirements, global practices and World Health Organisation guidelines and cannot for now be opened to all above 18 years. “The objective cannot be to provide the vaccination to whoever desires it, the objective should be to provide the vaccination to whoever needs it most,” Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said, responding to a growing chorus for vaccines-on-demand for all adults. The Indian Medical Association (IMA), the country’s largest body of doctors, had on Monday cited the resurgence of the epidemic and urged the Centre to permit all citizens above 18 years of age to receive Covid-19 vaccines, as one measure to mitigate the surge. Several public health experts, including Giridhar Babu, a professor of epidemiology at the Indian Institute of Public Health, Bangalore, have also argued that India should accelerate its vaccination campaign and open it up as early as possible to all adults. But the health officials said other countries, including Australia, France, Sweden, the UK and the US, have adopted similar policies of starting their vaccination campaign with priority population groups just as India has done. In France, for instance, vaccines in mid-April are available only to all people above 60 years, people above-50 at special risk, and to teachers who want it. In the UK, the February to April campaign was open only to all those between 60 and 69 years, those between 16 and 64 years with underlying health conditions and unpaid carers for elderly and disabled, and those between 50 and 59 years. The US also started its campaign with frontline essential workers, people aged 75 years or older and people between 75 and 74 years. The US, however, plans to have all its adults vaccinated before the middle of this year. “The basic aim is to reduce deaths through vaccination. The other aim is to protect your healthcare systems,” Bhushan said. “These are the two objectives — whether in India, America, the UK or any other country. No country has gone ahead and opened vaccination to all above 18 years of age.” India has in the 80 days since the start of the campaign administered nearly 80 million doses, marking what officials have described as the fastest vaccination campaign in the world. Over five million healthcare workers, four million frontline workers and nearly 1.2 million people above 45 years in India have received both doses of the vaccines. Vinod Paul, a senior paediatrician and chair of the national expert group on Covid-19 vaccines, said suggestions to open up the vaccination campaign immediately to all adults “trivialises” the narrative. The campaign’s current strategy, Paul said, is intended to reduce deaths and the burden of severe disease. Infection patterns from across the world have shown that older people are at the greatest risk of severe Covid-19 and deaths from the infection. “We respect these suggestions but seek that we embrace the current strategy, counter hesitancy and encourage more (eligible) people to come for their vaccinations,” Paul said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-226
07-04-2021||India||Sabarimala dominates poll-day talk for Congress and BJP||Congress and BJP leaders tried to keep alive the Sabarimala controversy as Kerala voted on Tuesday, condemning the Left government for helping women of childbearing age enter the shrine after the Supreme Court lifted the traditional bar on them in September 2018. Speaking to reporters outside the booths after voting, senior Opposition politicians continued to have their say on the matter, compelling the Left leaders too to react and defend their government. G. Sukumaran Nair, general secretary of the influential social organisation, the Nair Service Society, told reporters in Kottayam that people wanted a change. “I feel the believers have been protesting for quite a while. They are still doing the same,” he said, effectively discarding his organisation’s tradition of equidistance from all parties. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, who voted in the Dharmadam constituency, reacted to Nair’s statement saying: “Swami Ayyappan and all the gods are with this government.” State CPI general secretary Kanam Rajendran said: “His (Nair’s) statement makes it clear he has politics on his mind. The LDF (Left Democratic Front) manifesto says it will protect all faiths.” Leader of the Opposition and Congress veteran Ramesh Chennithala said the Left government would have to “face the wrath of Swami Ayyappan”. Even Congress MP Shashi Tharoor, who rarely comments on the sensitive subject, said the Left government had done “too little too late” when it came to repairing the damage. “This wouldn’t have happened if they had thought about Ayyappan when they sent people wearing helmets and flak jackets to the temple,” he told reporters after voting. The allusion was to the state government providing police escorts to women of childbearing age who wanted to enter the hill shrine in the winter of 2018-19. Widespread outrage at the government move had helped the Congress-led UDF sweep 19 of Kerala’s 20 Lok Sabha seats in the 2019 general election. However, the issue seemed not to exert the expected leverage in the December 2020 local body polls, which went the Left’s way. But the controversy was rejuvenated when state devaswom (temple affairs) minister Kadakampally Surendran expressed “regrets” at the developments that followed the 2018 apex court verdict. This was construed as an admission that the government’s move to implement the judgment was a mistake. However, the CPM quickly clarified that its government had done nothing wrong. At the same time, Vijayan appeared to hold out an olive branch saying that once the apex court ruled on the pending review petitions, his government would consult all stakeholders before deciding what to do. State BJP president K. Surendran on Tuesday described Vijayan as the “biggest asura (demon)” for allowing women of childbearing age to enter the temple. “This is the kind of thing asuras do. The chief minister is the biggest asura. He is now making this somersault realising that the voters would remember the heinous encroachments,” he said. Surendran is contesting from Konni as well as Manjeshwar in Kasaragod district in the state’s extreme north.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-226
07-04-2021||India||India-Russia  military talks under threat of US sanctions||India and Russia on Tuesday committed themselves to deepening military cooperation, undeterred by the threat of US sanctions. Although India’s decision to acquire five Almaz-Antel S-400 Triumf self-propelled surface-to-air missile systems was not specifically discussed during the bilateral deliberations between Russian foreign minister Sergey Lavrov and external affairs minister S. Jaishankar, both confirmed that the military cooperation would continue. Asked if the two sides had discussed US pressure on India to not buy the S-400s, Lavrov said: “We didn’t discuss the statements from the US. Instead, we confirmed deepening military cooperation. We also discussed the prospect of additional manufacturing of Russian military equipment in India within the concept of ‘Make in India’.” Lavrov, who has been foreign minister since 2004, added for good measure that he did not see any fluctuations or changes on the Indian side in military cooperation. Jaishankar seconded what Lavrov said. Last December, the Donald Trump administration had imposed sanctions on Turkey for purchasing the S-400 defence system. During his visit to India last month, two months into the Joe Biden administration, US defence secretary Lloyd Austin had said he had discussed New Delhi’s plans to purchase the Russian air defence system, pointing out that Washington had asked all its partners to stay away from Russian equipment to avoid sanctions under the CAATSA (Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act). From Delhi, Lavrov headed for Islamabad on his second visit to Pakistan since 2012 amid growing ties between Russia and that country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-226
07-04-2021||India||Chattisgarh: Abducted CRPF soldier’s wife urges PM Modi for his release||The family of a CRPF soldier feared to have been abducted by Maoists after Saturday’s ambush that killed 22 troops in Chhattisgarh has urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to rescue the jawan like Wing Commander Abhinandan Varthaman was brought back from Pakistan. The alleged abduction of Rakeshwar Singh Manhas, a commando from the CoBRA battalion of the CRPF and a resident of Jammu, has plunged the family in grief and they are making frantic calls to the local CRPF headquarters for his release. “If he is safe, get him back, no matter how or wherefrom. I appeal to Modiji to get him back the way Abhinandan was brought back from Pakistan. Get him also,” Manhas’s wife Meenu told reporters in Jammu on Monday evening. The family also released a video where Shragvi, the five-year-old daughter of Manhas, 35, urges the Maoists to release her father. “Please release my father,” the girl pleads before she breaks down. Her relatives are seen wiping her tears. Varthaman, an IAF fighter pilot, had been taken captive by Pakistan after his plane crashed during the Balakot strike but was later released. Meenu said she had last spoken to her husband at 9.30pm on Friday. She said Manhas had told her that he was leaving for an operation. “He had told me he would return the next day,” she said. Meenu said her husband  had served the country for 10 years and participated in several counter-insurgency operations in Kashmir. “Now it is the government’s turn to fight for its jawan and get him back from the captivity of the Maoists,” she said. Manhas was recruited to the CRPF in 2011. A purported statement by Maoists on Tuesday said they had abducted a jawan during the gun battle with security forces in Chhattisgarh’s Bijapur district and asked for mediators to be nominated for his release, reports PTI. The statement is being looked into, a CRPF commander said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-226
07-04-2021||India||Rafale: Supplied 50 replicas to the aircraft maker, says Defsys||Defsys Solutions Pvt Ltd, the company named in a French media report as the recipient of 1 million euros from Dassault Aviation, said in a statement on Tuesday that it had supplied 50 replicas of the Rafale fighter to the aircraft maker. “This is in response to wholly unsubstantiated, baseless and misleading claims appearing in certain sections of the media, insinuating that Defsys never supplied 50 replica models of Rafale aircraft,” Defsys said. “Delivery challans, E-way bills and GST returns related to such delivery have been duly filed with the relevant authorities.” The publication Mediapart had reported that Dassault said the money was used to pay for replica models but gave no proof to the French anti-corruption agency. “Dassault group was unable to provide the AFA (Agence Française Anticorruption) with a single document showing that these models existed and were delivered, and not even a photograph. The inspectors thus suspected that this was a bogus purchase designed to hide hidden financial transactions,” it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-226
07-04-2021||India||Justice NV Ramana appointed as the 48th Chief Justice of India||President Ram Nath Kovind on Tuesday formally issued a warrant appointing Justice Nuthalapati Venkata Ramana, who had ruled against the Narendra Modi government over the Internet restrictions in Jammu and Kashmir, as the 48th Chief Justice of India from April 24. Justice Ramana will take over after current CJI Sharad Arvind Bobde retires on April 23, and will continue in the top post till August 26, 2022. Below are some of the key judgments that Justice Ramana, a former journalist, has authored since his elevation to the apex court in February 2014. ⚫ In Anuradha Bhasin v Union of India (2020), the judgment ensured the eventual return of Internet connectivity in Jammu and Kashmir —where it had been curbed since August 2019 — by linking it to the fundamental right of free speech. The bench also laid down certain parameters on curfews, holding that “Section 144 CrPC (which bans assemblies of more than five people) cannot be used to suppress legitimate expression of opinion or grievance or exercise of any democratic rights”. ⚫ In Foundation for Media Professionals v State (Union Territory of J&K), 2020, the judgment struck a balance between the fundamental rights and the concerns of State security and appointed a committee to ensure that any restrictions, if required, are narrowly tailored and not permanent in nature. It reiterated the Bhasin verdict’s push for the return of Internet to Kashmir. ⚫  As part of a five-judge bench in Supreme Court of India v Subash Chandra Agarwal, Justice Ramana held: “The right to information and right to privacy are at an equal footing. There is no requirement to take an a priori view that one right trumps other.” The judgment boosted the case of RTI activists. ⚫ In Swaraj Abhiyan v Union of India, Justice Ramana stressed the need for cooperative federalism in the implementation of the National Food Security Act. He issued subsequent directions to ensure the right to food for all. ⚫ In Kirti v Oriental Insurance this year, Justice Ramana’s opinion was key to recognising homemakers’ contribution to the family and giving them an equal status with the earning members. Women’s organisations hailed the judgment. ⚫ In M/s Fortune Infrastructure (now M/s Hicon Infrastructure) & Anr v Trevor D’Lima & Ors, Justice Ramana held that a consumer must be given delivery of their flat within a reasonable time even in the absence of a specified contractual clause. He held a consumer was entitled to a refund and compensation if the developer failed to deliver. ⚫ In Accused X v State of Maharashtra, Justice Ramana saved an accused with acute mental illness from the gallows by ruling that the courts must consider the mental condition of accused after conviction. “The right to dignity of an accused does not dry out with the judges’ ink, rather, it subsists well beyond the prison gates and operates until his last breath,” he wrote. ⚫ In Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay v Union of India, a bench that included Justice Ramana passed numerous directives to speed up criminal investigations and trials involving lawmakers. ⚫ In Shiv Sena v Union of India (2019), Justice Ramana highlighted the importance of the floor test to curtail the so-called practice of horse trading, and directed an immediate trust vote in Maharashtra. ⚫ In Shrimanth Balasaheb Patil v Karnataka Legislative Assembly (2019), Justice Ramana observed that for political functionaries, “merely taking the oath to protect and uphold the Constitution may not be sufficient, rather imbibing the constitutional values in everyday functioning is required and expected by the glorious document that is our Constitution”. This was seen as a decisive statement on the Tenth Schedule, which was riddled with confusion and contradictory opinions. ⚫ In PUDA v Vidya Chetal, the court held that even services rendered by statutory authorities can be brought under the ambit of the Consumer Protection Act, and adjudicated upon by consumer forums. ⚫ In Mansukhbhai Kanjibhai Shah v the State of Gujarat, the court held that officials of a deemed university too performed public duties and therefore came under the ambit of the Prevention of Corruption Act. The judgment helped make higher education more transparent in India. ⚫ In M/s Alcon Electronics v Celem SA, Justice Ramana paved the way for foreign decrees being executed in India. The business community hailed the judgment as crucial for international trade and commerce. ⚫ In Vidya Drolia v Durga Trading Corporation, his opinion has been cited as decreasing the burden on the courts by making arbitration more efficient in India. ⚫ In Sebi v Kanaiyalal Baldevbhai Patel, relating to insider trading, Justice Ramana examined practices such as hedging to rule that stockbrokers’ use of price-sensitive confidential information to pre-emptively buy or sell shares was illegal. Sebi amended the law in line with his suggestions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-226
