08-04-2021||India|| Oommen Chandy tests Covid-19 positive, to be hospitalised||Former Kerala chief minister, and Congress leader Oommen Chandy has tested positive for Cvid-19. He contested the April 6 assembly polls from Puthupallyin Kottayam, and has not been keeping well since the past two days, party sources informed. He is likely to be shifted to a hospital in Thiruvananthapuram. Kerala governor Ramesh Chennithal wished him a speed recovery on Twitter. Kerala reported 4,353 fresh Covid cases today, the highest in the past few days. Earlier, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan tested positive for Covid-19. He had taken his first dose of the Covid vaccine last month.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-223
08-04-2021||India||Dassault Aviation rejects fresh allegations of corruption in Rafale deal||French aerospace major Dassault Aviation on Thursday rejected fresh allegations of corruption in the Rafale fighter jet deal with India, saying no violations were reported in the frame of the contract, days after French online journal 'Mediapart' alleged that the jet manufacturer had paid nearly one million Euros to an Indian middleman.

According to the French media, the report was based on an investigation by the country's anti-corruption agency Agence Francaise Anticorruption (AFA).

Rejecting the allegations, a Dassault Aviation spokesperson said,"numerous controls are carried out by official organisations, including the French Anti-Corruption Agency. No violations were reported, notably in the frame of the contract with India for the acquisition of 36 Rafales."

The spokesperson said Dassault Aviation, since the early 2000s, has "implemented strict internal procedures to prevent corruption, guaranteeing the integrity, ethics and reputation of the company in its industrial and commercial relations".

The French media report said that Dassault claimed the money was paid for 50 replicas of Rafale jets and the order was given to an Indian defence company.

It also mentioned that the inspectors of the AFA were given no proof that these models were made. Following the allegations, the Indian company on Tuesday released a statement and tax invoices stating that the allegations were totally unfounded.

The Dassault official said the company reiterated that it acts in strict compliance with the OECD's (Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development) anti-bribery convention and national laws, in particular the Sapin 2 law.

Under the Sapin 2 law that came into force in 2017, French companies are required to implement a specific internal compliance programme to fight corruption.

"In the context of the Sapin 2 law, the company has completed and strengthened its system for the prevention and detection of corruption and influence peddling, both at the level of the parent company and its subsidiaries," the official said.

The company also noted that the Rafale deal was based on a government-to-government framework.

"This contract, as well as the offsets corresponding contract, meet the criteria established by these regulations and are being executed in full transparency between the various government and industrial partners," the spokesperson added.

The company has delivered 14 Rafale jets to the Indian Air Force so far.

The official said aircraft were delivered in respect of the schedule, despite the COVID-19 health crisis.

"Dassault Aviation and the Reliance Group established the Dassault Reliance Aerospace Ltd (DRAL) joint venture in 2017 and built a plant in Nagpur that has been producing numerous Falcon parts and pieces since 2018," the official said.

"Dassault Aviation and its partners are working with 60 companies in India and negotiations are underway to establish potential new cooperations," the official noted.

The NDA government had inked a Rs 59,000-crore deal on September 23, 2016 to procure 36 Rafale jets from French aerospace major Dassault Aviation after a nearly seven-year exercise to procure 126 Medium Multi-Role Combat Aircraft (MMRCA) for the Indian Air Force did not fructify during the UPA regime.

Prior to the Lok Sabha elections in 2019, the Congress raised several questions about the deal, including on rates of the aircraft, and alleged corruption but the government rejected all the charges.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-223
08-04-2021||India||Covid: Modi stresses on micro containment zones in meeting with CMs||Noting that administration was appearing lax in many states amid a rising number of Covid-19 cases, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday urged chief ministers to strengthen their efforts for the next 2-3 weeks to check the spread of the virus on a "war-footing". He also called for observing a vaccine festival between April 11-14 to inoculate the maximum number of eligible beneficiaries. “We have to stop vaccine wastage and prioritise the shots that we are giving out. Between April 11 to 14, we should organise a ‘tika utsav’ to inoculate maximum number of beneficiaries and ensure there is no wastage,” he said. In his interaction with chief ministers to discuss the Covid-19 situation and the ongoing vaccination drive, Modi asserted that the country had much more resources to deal with the virus than before and the focus should be on micro-containment zones. "There is a need to improve the governance system. I understand that because of the one-year battle, the system can experience tiredness and there can be laxity, but we must tighten it for 2-3 weeks and strengthen the governance," he said. Modi emphasised on 'Test, Track, Treat', Covid-appropriate behaviour and Covid management to contain the pandemic. Along with public participation, our hard-working doctors and health-care staff have helped a lot in handling the situation and are still doing it, he said. "With administration appearing lax in many states, rise in cases has increased problems. To stop the spread of the virus, there is a need to work on a war-footing," he said. Modi set a target of conducting 70 per cent RT-PCR tests for the states and said that testing was the only way to curb the spread of the virus. “Containing human hosts is a way to contain the virus, we need to widen testing since more cases are asymptomatic now. Comments "Proactive testing is very important... Now more cases are asymptomatic. People feel that they have some mild pulmonary disease and then they infect the whole family,” he said, adding that the positivity rate should be kept below five per cent. Talking about the vaccine distribution scenario in the country, the prime minister said, “We need to prioritise (vaccine distribution) with what we have. We won't achieve anything by keeping vaccines in one state. It is not right to think in this way. We have to manage by thinking about the country.” The daily count of positive cases has reached a new record high of over 1.26 lakh, despite having dipped to about 20,000 a few weeks back. At a high-level meeting with senior officials, Prime Minister Modi had on Sunday reviewed the Covid-19 situation and vaccination exercise in the country amid the "alarming rate of growth" in infections and deaths. Modi had said the five-fold strategy of testing, tracing, treatment, Covid-appropriate behaviour and vaccination, if implemented with utmost seriousness and commitment, would be effective in curbing the spread of the pandemic, according to an official statement that was released after the meeting. During the meeting, Modi also said night curfew has been an accepted experiment globally to contain the Covid-19 spread and called for popularising such restrictions, which have already been imposed in various parts of the country, as 'corona curfew' to spread awareness among people. He also dismissed the "intellectual debate" about coronavirus only having an effect in the night and said such a curfew helps in spreading awareness about the deadly virus with minimal impact on daily lives of people. Night curfew has been imposed by local administration in several places including Mumbai, Delhi, Noida, Lucknow and other parts of the country amid a spike in Covid-19 cases. "Where ever night curfew is in place, there the phrase 'corona curfew' should be used so that awareness regarding coronavirus is maintained," Modi said during his interaction with chief ministers to discuss the COVID-19 situation and the ongoing vaccination drive. "Some people have this intellectual debate that 'does corona only come in the night'. In reality, the world over night curfew has been an accepted experiment because every person during the curfew time is reminded that I am living in Corona-era and lifestyle is not affected to a large extent," he said. The prime minister said, however, it would be better that the 'corona curfew' starts at 9 PM or 10 PM in the night and goes on till 5 AM or 6 AM in the morning so that other activities are not affected. "It should be popularised as 'corona curfew'. Corona curfew is helping make people aware (about the virus)," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-223
08-04-2021||India|| Harsh Vardhan dismisses vaccine shortage cry of states as a ‘farce’||Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Tuesday dismissed as "farce" the "hue and cry" by certain states about partisanship by the Centre and called it an attempt to hide their own incompetence, saying non-BJP ruled Maharashtra and Rajasthan figured among the top three states based on allocation of vaccines. As Covid-19 cases in India hit a record high, Vardhan said that 9.1 crore vaccine doses have been utilised, while 2.4 crore are in stock and 1.9 crore vaccines are in the pipeline, indicating there are sufficient doses available for all states. "Hue and cry by certain states about partisanship by the Union government is just a farce, an attempt to hide their own incompetence. Maharashtra and Rajasthan are 2 of the top 3 states based on allocation of Covid-19 vaccine doses. "Both are non-BJP governed states," Vardhan said in a tweet. Releasing the figures, he said in another tweet, "Let's put an end to fear mongering now! #Covid19 vaccine doses: total administered: 9 cr+ In stock/nearing delivery to states: 4.3 cr+ Where does question of shortages arise? We're continuously monitoring and enhancing supply." In a strongly worded statement Vardhan on Wednesday hit out at Maharashtra and some other states, accusing them of trying to cover their "failures" and spreading panic among people by demanding vaccination of all without inoculating enough of eligible beneficiaries. People above the age of 45 are currently eligible for vaccination. Vardhan also said the allegations of vaccine shortage are utterly baseless and the states, including Maharashtra need to improve the implementation of their testing and containment strategies and vaccination drive. He said the "lackadaisical" attitude of the Maharashtra government has "singularly bogged down" the entire country's efforts to fight the virus. Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope on Thursday sought to know why the state was getting fewer number of Covid-19 vaccine doses as compared to some other states, including Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh, even as it is leading the vaccination drive and has the highest number of active cases in the country. Apart from Maharashtra, Bengal, Odisha and Andhra Pradesh have also urged the Centre to supply more vaccines due to their shortage.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-223
08-04-2021||India||Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan tests positive for Covid-19||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday tested positive for Covid-19. Vijayan, who had taken the first dose of the Covid vaccine last month, confirmed his infection in a tweet. "I have been confirmed Covid+ve. Will get treated at the Government Medical college, Kozhikode," he tweeted. Vijayan, who is presently in Kannur, also requested all those who came in contact with him in recent days, to go into 'self-observation'. Sources from the Chief Minister's Office told PTI that he was asymptomatic. Chief Minister's daughter Veena Vijayan and son-in-law P A Mohammed Riyas had earlier tested positive. Vijayan, who was theCPI(M) candidate from Dharmadam in Kannur, had travelled extensively throughout the state during the campaign for the April 6 Assembly polls. He had also participated in the road show at Dharmadam on the last day of the campaign. The state posted 4,353 fresh coronavirus cases on Thursday, the biggest spike in recent days in the state,as the total caseload rose to 11.48 lakh. As many as 2,205 people have been cured of the disease, taking the total recoveries to 11,10,283, a government press release said. The total number of those who tested positive to the virus mounted to 11,48,947. The active cases in the state have touched 33,621. In the last 24 hours ending 2 pm, 63,901 samples have been tested and the test positivity rate climbed to 6.81 per cent. So far, 1.35 crore samples have been sent for testing. The toll has mounted to 4,728 with 18 more recent deaths being confirmed due to the virus infection.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-223
08-04-2021||India||Maoists let go of CoBRA commando abducted in Chhattisgarh ambush||CoBRA commando Rakeshwar Singh Manhas, who was abducted by Naxals after the last week's fierce gun-battle in Bastar region of Chhattisgarh, was released on Thursday, police said.

Manhas, who belonged to the 210th battalion of Commando Battalion for Resolute Action (CoBRA), an elite unit of the CRPF, had gone missing after the gunfight on Saturday and later reported to be in the captivity of the Naxals.

The Naxals handed over the jawan, who hails from Jammu, to a group of facilitators in the forest along the Bijapur and Sukma border in the presence of a large number of villagers, police said.

"At around 4.30 pm, the abducted jawan returned to Tarrem Police Station safely along with the facilitators, who went inside the jungle to trace out his location," Inspector General of Police (Bastar range) Sundarraj P said.

He is being admitted to Basaguda field hospital for medical examination and treatment, he said.

Some media persons accompanied the facilitators and recorded the video of his release. The visuals showed some armed Naxals, with faces covered, freeing the jawan tied with ropes.

The team of facilitators included Padma Shri awardee Dharampal Saini from Mata Rukhmani Ashram, Jagdalpur and Telam Boraiyya, senior leader of tribal community in Bijapur. Local journalists Ganesh Mishra and Mukesh Chandrakar also played an important role in his release, police said.

Manhas was part of a squad that had gone for an anti- Naxal operation in the jungles on the Bijapur and Sukma border on the night of April 2, hours before the deadly ambush.

The gunfight had broken out between the security forces and the ultras between Tekalguda and Jonaguda villages, in which 22 troopers were killed and 31 others injured.

On Tuesday, the outlawed CPI (Maoist) had issued a statement in Hindi saying its cadres had abducted Manhas from the site of the ambush and demanded that the Chhattisgarh government appoint mediators to ensure his safe release.

The Maoists, however, had not raised any formal demands for the release of the commando.

Out of the 22 martyred personnel, the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) lost eight personnel, including seven CoBRA commandos and one jawan of its 'Bastariya' battalion, eight from the DRG and six from the Special Task Force.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-223
08-04-2021||India||CBI probe against Anil Deshmukh to continue, rules SC||In a setback to Maharashtra government and its former home minister Anil Deshmukh, the Supreme Court Thursday dismissed their pleas challenging the Bombay High Court order directing a CBI probe into allegations of corruption and misconduct levelled against him by former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh. Looking at the personas involved and nature of allegations and seriousness of allegations, it requires investigation by an independent agency. It is a matter of public confidence, a bench comprising Justices S K Kaul and Hemant Gupta said. “We don't want to interfere with the orders of the high court directing a preliminary inquiry by the CBI,” the bench said. It is only a preliminary enquiry, nothing is wrong in it when serious allegations are made by a senior officer against a senior minister, the bench said when counsel for Deshmukh alleged that oral allegations were made without any substance and CBI probe was ordered without hearing him. The bench said that two persons involved in the case were the police commissioner and the home minister and they were working together till they fell apart. Senior advocate A M Singhvi, appearing for Maharashtra, said that it was aggrieved by the CBI probe as the consent for it was withdrawn by the state earlier.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-223
08-04-2021||India||60-hour weekend lockdown to be imposed in all Madhya Pradesh cities||A lockdown will be enforced in all cities of Madhya Pradesh from 6 pm on Friday to 6 am on Monday to check the spread of the coronavirus infection, Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said on Thursday. Talking to reporters here after chairing a meeting to review the COVID-19 situation in MP, Chouhan said his government aims to increase the number of beds for COVID-19 patients in the state to one lakh. "A lockdown will be enforced in all cities of the state from 6 pm on Friday to 6 am on Monday," Chouhan said. In the past three weeks, the state government imposed lockdowns in Bhopal, Indore, Jabalpur and Gwalior on Sundays and extended the curbs to some other cities last Sunday. Chouhan said various crisis management groups will hold meetings to review the situation in cities where there has been a spurt in COVID-19 cases and will decide the course of action to contain it. Besides increasing the number of beds for the viral infection patients, the state government has also decided to set up one COVID-19 care centre in each district, he said. There are total 52 districts in MP. Private hospitals are also being roped in to increase number of beds for COVID-19 patients, Chouhan said. On Wednesday, MP reported 4,043 new cases of coronavirus, taking its tally to 3,18,014, while 13 fatalities pushed the death toll to 4,086, as per official data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-223
08-04-2021||India||Covid: 12 states showing upward trajectory of daily new cases||Ten states including Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Kerala and Punjab have shown a steep rise in the daily COVID-19 cases accounting for 84.21 per cent of the 1,26,789 new infections, the health ministry said on Thursday. The national weekly COVID-19 positivity rate has increased by 6.21 per cent from 2.19 to 8.40 per cent in the first seven days of March and April, the ministry said. India registered a record single-day spike of 1,26,789 new coronavirus infections pushing the nationwide COVID-19 tally of cases to 1,29,28,574, according to the ministry data updated on Thursday morning. Maharashtra has reported the highest daily new cases at 59,907. It is followed by Chhattisgarh with 10,310 while Karnataka reported 6,976 new cases. India's total active caseload has increased to 9,10,319 and now comprises 7.04 per cent of the country's total infections. A net incline of 66,846 cases recorded in the total active caseload in a span of 24 hours. "Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh and Kerala cumulatively account for 74.13 per cent of India's total active cases. Maharashtra alone accounts for 55.26 per cent of the total active cases of the country," the ministry said. Twelve states including Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Punjab, Karnataka, Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Haryana, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Kerala are displaying an upward trajectory in daily new cases, the ministry said. India's cumulative recoveries stand at 1,18,51,393 with 59,258 recoveries being registered in a span of 24 hours. Besides, 685 deaths were reported in a span of 24 hours. Ten states account for 87.59 per cent of the new deaths. Maharashtra saw the maximum casualties (322). Punjab follows with 62 daily deaths, the ministry said. Twelve states and UTs have not reported any COVID-19 deaths in the last 24 hours. These are Assam, Ladakh, D&D & D&N, Nagaland, Tripura, Meghalaya, Sikkim, Manipur, Lakshadweep, Mizoram, Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Arunachal Pradesh. Amid a steep rise in cases, the Maharashtra government on Thursday said that 26 vaccination centres have been shut in Mumbai and the state was waiting for more doses from the Union government, NDTV reported. "Satara, Sangli, Panvel have stopped vaccinations," state health minister Rajesh Tope said. In Pune too, several centres were shut, tweeted ationalist Congress Party MP Supriya Sule. Meanwhile, BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis said to address the shortage of remdesivir, the Maharashtra government should procure the drug from states that are not witnessing a second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic and take action against black marketing of the injection. Speaking to reporters at Nagpur airport, Fadnavis said the state government should pay attention to the availability of remdesivir, as instances of black marketing had been reported last year. "The same is happening now as well. Not all states are witnessing a second wave. Hence, the government should procure remdesivir from states that are not in the second wave of the pandemic and companies that are producing the drug," he said. The BJP leader further said that the state government should stop playing politics over the COVID-19 vaccine. Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee will not attend the virtual meeting called by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to discuss the Covid-19 situation with CMs, sources in the state government said on Thursday. Chief Secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay will be present in the meeting, they said. The TMC supremo will be busy campaigning for the ongoing assembly elections in the state, the sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-223
08-04-2021||India||HC seeks Centre, EC’s views on mask rule during poll campaigns||The Delhi High Court on Thursday sought response of the Centre and the Election Commission on a plea seeking to ensure that masks are worn mandatorily by everyone involved in poll campaigns during the ongoing elections in various states and union territories. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jasmeet Singh issued notice to the Centre and the EC and sought their response to the application by Vikram Singh, the former DGP of Uttar Pradesh and also the chairman of think tank Centre for Accountability and Systemic Change (CASC). The court listed the application for further hearing on April 30 along with Singh's main petition seeking to debar campaigners and candidates from campaigning in the Assembly elections for repeatedly violating the mandatory guidelines issued by the poll panel in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Advocate Virag Gupta, appearing for Singh, told the bench that the poll body should "create awareness through digital, print and electronic media for compulsory masking and social distancing during assembly elections". "When all the authorities are unanimous on mandatory masking, it defies logic as to why the rule should not be enforced in election campaigns," Gupta argued. The Central government's standing counsel Anurag Ahluwalia accepted notice on behalf of the Centre. Singh, in his application filed through advocate Gaurav Pathak, has sought a direction to the Centre to ensure strict compliance of its March 23 order, mandating imposition of appropriate fines, on persons not wearing face masks in public and workplaces, in states and UTs where elections are being held. The Assembly elections in Assam, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal and Puducherry are being held in various phases. The polls started on March 27 and will conclude on April 29. Singh has contended that despite the orders and guidelines of the Centre and EC, "election campaigning is going on in full swing, without any regard to the Covid-19 regulations". He has claimed that there is an "indirect discrimination" against the general public as fines are collected from them for violating Covid-19 norms, but no action is taken against politicians.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-224
08-04-2021||India||India records biggest one day surge in fresh Covid cases ||India registered a record single-day spike of 1,26,789 new COVID-19 cases, pushing its infection tally to 1,29,28,574, while the number of active cases too went upwards to breach the nine lakh-mark again, Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday showed. The death toll due to the disease in the country increased to 1,66,862, with 685 new fatalities being reported in a day, according to the data updated at 8 am. Registering a steady increase for the 29th day in row, the count of active cases has gone up to 9,10,319, which is 7.04 per cent of the total infections, while the country's recovery rate has dropped to 91.67 per cent, it stated. The active COVID-19 caseload in the country was recorded at its lowest of 1,35,926 on February 12, comprising 1.25 per cent of the total infections. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,18,51,393, while the case fatality rate has dropped to 1.29 per cent, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28 last year, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 25,26,77,379 samples have been tested for COVID-19 in the country so far, including 12,37,781 on Wednesday. The 685 new fatalities include 322 from Maharashtra, 62 from Punjab, 53 from Chhattisgarh, 40 from Uttar Pradesh, 35 from Karnataka, 22 from Gujarat, 20 from Delhi, 17 from Tamil Nadu, 16 from Kerala, 13 from Madhya Pradesh, 12 from Rajasthan and 11 each from Andhra Pradesh and Haryana. A total of 1,66,862 deaths due to the disease have been reported so far in the country. This includes 56,652 fatalities from Maharashtra, 12,821 from Tamil Nadu, 12,731 from Karnataka, 11,133 from Delhi, 10,363 from West Bengal, 8,964 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,278 from Punjab and 7,262 from Andhra Pradesh. The Union Health Ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the ICMR," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-224
08-04-2021||India||Modi takes second dose of Covid vaccine at AIIMS||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday took second dose of Covid-19 vaccine at AIIMS here, and asked those eligible for the shot to take it soon to defeat the virus. He had taken his first jab on March 1 at the hospital. "Got my second dose of the COVID-19 vaccine at AIIMS today.Vaccination is among the few ways we have, to defeat the virus.If you are eligible for the vaccine, get your shot soon. Register on CoWin.gov.in," he tweeted. The prime minister also posted a picture of his receiving the jab. Modi has taken Covaxin, India's homegrown vaccine developed by Bharat Biotech. Official sources said the two nurses who administered the vaccine to the prime minister on Thursday are P Niveda from Puducherry and Nisha Sharma from Punjab. Niveda was also involved in administering him the first shot on March 1.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-224
08-04-2021||India||Centre flies off handle on Covid vaccine as states seek more doses||The Narendra Modi government on Wednesday erupted in anger at state governments that had asked for all adults to be inoculated amid a sharp surge in Covid cases and had flagged vaccine shortages. Hours after Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said that many inoculation centres in the state are being shut because of a shortage of vaccines and that the state now has 14 lakh doses which would only last three days, Union health minister Harsh Vardhan lashed out at the state government. “The lackadaisical attitude of the Maharashtra government has singularly bogged down the entire country’s efforts to fight the virus,” the minister said. “Vaccine supplies are being monitored on a real-time basis, and state governments are being apprised regularly about it. Allegations of vaccine shortage are utterly baseless,” he added. The Centre turning on a state government in the middle of a pandemic whose second wave appears to be bigger than the first will do little to inspire confidence among the people. A Press Trust of India report had quoted Tope saying: “There are not enough doses at many vaccination centres and people coming there have to be sent back due to the shortage.” The minister also said that the state has 14 lakh vaccine doses while its vaccination plan requires 40 lakh doses per week. Maharashtra’s principal secretary (health) Pradeep Vyas told PTI on Wednesday that several districts would run out of their vaccine stocks “today or tomorrow” and the Centre has been informed about this. Bengal has also appealed to the Union health ministry to send more Covid-19 vaccine doses. Odisha has said it has had to close nearly half its immunisation sites because of a shortage of doses. Central officials have asserted in recent weeks that there is no shortage of vaccines for the campaign’s current phase that seeks to immunise all healthcare workers and frontline workers and people 45 years or older. Vardhan iterated that position on Wednesday and bristled at demands to vaccinate all adults, describing these as irresponsible statements that appear intended to divert attention from their own “poor vaccination efforts.” Maharashtra and Chhattisgarh need to improve their Covid-19 testing rates and Gujarat, Karnataka and Rajasthan need to improve their quality of testing, the minister said. Punjab, he said, has to address its high case fatality rate by early identification of cases. “So long as the supply of vaccines remains limited, there is no option but to prioritise. This is also the established practice around the world and is well known to state governments,” Vardhan said. The primary aim of vaccination is to reduce mortality among the most vulnerable people, he said. Maharashtra, Punjab and Delhi, which are grappling with sharp rises in daily new Covid cases, had asked for vaccination to be allowed for all adults. Health experts who have been tracking the epidemic and the campaign said the discord between the Centre and some states is not surprising given the epidemic’s resurgence, inadequate public data on vaccine supplies, and lingering vaccine hesitancy. “Things changed — the vaccination strategy was designed months ago under the assumptions India’s epidemic was past its peak and was unlikely to grow to this size,” said Oommen John, a physician-researcher at The George Institute for Global Health, New Delhi. “Under current circumstances, I would argue for a vaccine strategy that takes into account the epidemic patterns in specific districts — where the infection is rampaging, it might be worthwhile to expand vaccines to all those who’re vulnerable — not just the most vulnerable,” John said. Vardhan said states seeking vaccination for all adults have not met their priority group targets yet. Maharashtra has so far vaccinated less than 50 per cent of healthcare and frontline workers with two doses of the vaccine required for protection, while Delhi and Punjab have vaccinated less than 30 per cent of their healthcare and frontline workers with two doses. Vaccine hesitancy is one of the reasons for the immunisation campaign’s slow pace across India, and some medical experts believe the Centre needs to share the blame for that. The Centre’s lack of transparency on adverse events following immunisation has likely contributed to the persistent hesitancy, a doctor said. Several countries have investigated the AstraZeneca vaccine — sold as Covishield in India — for possible links to blood clots. “Here, we see only episodic release of AEFI information by the health ministry,” the doctor said. A senior medical advisor to the national AEFI panel had told The Telegraph that details of each serious AEFI investigated in India would be made public. But the details still remain undisclosed. The other vaccine — Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin — was cleared even before its efficacy trial was complete, contributing to distrust. “People wouldn’t have forgotten how even some healthcare workers who are among the most vulnerable to the infection had hesitated on taking the vaccination,” said a senior physician who asked not to be named. Health officials have said the Serum Institute of India can produce about 70 million doses per month of Covishield, while Bharat Biotech can produce about 10 million doses per month of Covaxin, but neither the health ministry nor the companies have made public details of the government's procurement or distribution timelines. India had until Wednesday evening administered over 88 million doses of the vaccines, but only 11.5 million people have received both doses of the vaccines. The number of eligible beneficiaries under the current campaign phase is nearly 350 million.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-224
08-04-2021||India||CJI-designate asks Centre, states to create a judicial infrastructure corporation||Chief Justice of India-designate N.V. Ramana has regretted that despite 74 years of Independence, the nation continues to suffer from poverty and lack of access to justice for the downtrodden with nearly 4 crore cases pending in courts. In an interview to The Telegraph, Justice Ramana, who will assume office as the 48th Chief Justice of India on April 24, asked the Centre and the states to create a judicial infrastructure corporation to tackle pendency. “We can assert true accessibility (justice to all) when the person with the maximum disadvantage can still knock on the doors of the court of justice,” Justice Ramana said. Justice Ramana said financial constraints must never come in the path of progress and there was a need for the Centre and the states to co-operate and create the National Judicial Infrastructure Corporation, as a one-time measure, to cater to the need for judicial infrastructure in the country. “Such a corporation would bring the uniformity and standardisation required to revolutionise judicial infrastructure,” he added. Justice Ramana said: “Ever since we declared ourselves to be an independent nation, we found ourselves caught between the twin problems of poverty and access to justice. The architects of modern India had debated this issue on several national and international platforms. “Sadly, even after 74 years of Independence, we are still discussing the same issue. One would have expected that in this fast-paced world, topics such as these would have become outdated, however, it has not. We are still a country with millions of people living without access to basic fundamental amenities of life, including access to justice. As long as we are a nation which continues to face such dual realities, such discussions must continue.” The CJI-designate noted that people in the country are witness to courts operating from dilapidated old structures and rented premises, without proper record rooms or staff. “There are premises without washrooms, waiting rooms, crèche services, or disabled-friendly infrastructure for litigants and lawyers. “Situations like this have an adverse impact on the qualitative dispensation of justice. Therefore, it is important to concentrate our efforts on modernisation of judiciary. However, such endeavours must be undertaken after a careful stakeholder analysis and must portray the needs of changing times. Considering the intricacies involved in the judicial process, I call upon scholars and experts to provide a sustainable and inclusive model for modernising the judicial infrastructure in India,” Justice Ramana said. According to Justice Ramana, strengthening judicial infrastructure is the most important tool to reduce pendency of cases and clear the backlog. However, the understanding of judicial infrastructure has to transcend beyond the issues of pendency, vacancy or the number of court rooms. It should involve modernisation, upgradation and creating a “barrier-free, citizen-friendly environment”, he said. According to the next CJI, there should be more emphasis on consolidating the free legal aid programmes for women and people from the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. “The idea of ‘access to justice’ is deeply embedded in the constitutional vision of justice. Legal aid is an important element in ensuring that access to justice is available to all persons, irrespective of their social or economic position. “The legislative framework of the legal aid system of India reflects that it has made several categories of persons such as women, children, Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes, persons in custody, persons suffering from mental illness or other disability, victim of disaster, industrial workmen and victim of human trafficking or beggars are eligible for legal aid irrespective of their income,” Justice Ramana said, assuring that this would be one his top priority areas as the country’s next CJI.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-224
08-04-2021||India||Covid vaccine shortage, 400 Odisha sites shut||Shortage of Covid-19 vaccines has forced the Odisha government to close down nearly 400 vaccination centres across the state. Odisha has just 1.5 lakh doses of vaccine left at present which will last another two days only, according to sources. The vaccination campaign is under way currently at 700 sites after the closure of the 400 vaccination centres. “The Centre has given Covid-19 vaccines to nearly 80 countries under its vaccine diplomacy. We have no objections. But it should not ignore its own people. We raised the issue of acute shortage of vaccines in Odisha during the review meeting of the chief minister on the state’s preparedness to contain the surge of coronavirus cases. Our chief minister Naveen Patnaik will take up the issue of acute shortage of vaccines with the Prime Minister tomorrow (Thursday) when he talks to the chief ministers through videoconference,” a senior official told The Telegraph. Sources said the Odisha government has decided to take up the issue again with the Union health minister (Harsh Vardhan) and demand immediate supply of Covid-19 vaccines to the state. “We had earlier raised the issue of short supply of vaccines to the state. It seems they are yet to wake up to our demand,” the official said. Health and family welfare director Bijay Panigrahi told reporters on Wednesday: “The state is unable to set its target for vaccinating people due to the shortage of vaccines. Whatever stock we have has been kept in cold storage. It will last for two days only. The vaccination drive is likely to be hit severely if we don’t receive more supply (of vaccines) at the right time.” Odisha recorded as many as 791 positive cases on Wednesday, the highest daily count in 2021 so far, with the tribal-dominated Sundergarh district leading the tally with 147. One patient succumbed to Covid-19 on Wednesday. “Regret to inform the demise of 28-year old male Covid patient of Puri district who was also suffering from diabetes mellitus,” the health and family welfare department tweeted. The total number of Covid cases in the state has touched 338,415. The number of active cases now stands at 4,255. Following a direction from the chief minister to launch a drive, police across the state have started a massive awareness programme urging the people to wear masks. The Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation on Wednesday sealed the banquet hall of Ram Mandir and an engineering college for allegedly violating Covid-19 guidelines. In view of the rise in coronavirus cases in the state, the Odisha government on Wednesday decided to suspend physical teaching of Classes IX and XI students at all schools including private and aided institutions, reports PTI. Classroom teaching will remain suspended from April 8 to 30, an order said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-224
08-04-2021||India||Maoists send photo of captive CoBRA jawan to Chhattisgarh journalists||Maoists on Wednesday released a photo purportedly of the missing jawan of the CRPF’s elite CoBRA unit and said the commando was safe in captivity. The picture shows a man in battle fatigues sitting on a piece of blue tarpaulin in what appears to be a tent made from dried leaves and bamboo poles. It was sent by the Maoists to local journalists in Chhattisgarh over WhatsApp. The CRPF has officially not commented on the photo said to be of Rakeshwar Singh Manhas, missing since Saturday’s Maoist ambush in Chhattisgarh’s Bijapur district. A CRPF official said the jawan’s colleagues had said the photo looked old and he seemed to have no injury either. The Maoists had on Tuesday signalled they were ready to negotiate the release of the jawan. In a statement signed by its spokesperson Vikalp, the banned Communist Party of India (Marxist) on Tuesday evening asked the government to decide on a mediator for the talks. In the two-page letter, the Maoists said over 2,000 policemen had entered the Chhattisgarh village to kill their cadres, following which there was a counter-response. The “police jawans” were not their enemies, the Maoists said, adding that they were against the “anti-people” policies of the Narendra Modi government. Twenty-four security personnel had died in Saturday’s encounter and over 31 had been injured, the statement said. It added that four Maoists had been killed. The Maoists also claimed to have seized 14 firearms and over 2,000 cartridges belonging to the security personnel. In Jammu, the hometown of Manhas, the jawan’s family and scores of other residents hit the streets, wielding the Tricolour and shouting slogans, to press for his release. “We felt compelled to come here (to protest). The government is doing nothing. For four days we have no clue where he is,” a woman who identified herself as Manhas’s mother and was among the protesters, told reporters in Jammu. Manhas’s wife Meenu said: “If Maoists are claiming they have abducted him, why is the government not coming on record to say they are securing his release? Why is the government not taking any action?” She added: “They (the Maoists) are asking for the appointment of a mediator and have said they will release him. They (the Centre) are not giving them the name of the mediator. How can they (the Maoists) release him?” Meenu told the BBC it was the government’s responsibility to bring Manhas back. “Are they (the government) not worried at all about their jawan? He is my husband or his mother’s son later, he is first their jawan, he is their responsibility. Had he been ill, it would have been our responsibility to take him to the doctor, get him treated. Now it is their responsibility. He is in the custody of Naxalites. We can’t get him freed. We have no way to contact the Naxalites. It is the government’s responsibility to take action at the earliest, to do something.” Manhas’s brother said: “We appeal to the government not to waste time. Already four days have been wasted. He is in our country. In India, not in some other country....”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-224
08-04-2021||India||Congress takes government to task on Covid vaccines||The Congress on Wednesday said the Narendra Modi government was callous about the management of the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, raising questions about its attitude, preparedness and strategy. Raising serious concerns about shortage of vaccines in many states, the Congress also criticised the execution strategy that could lead to catastrophic consequences. It said the government became so engrossed in credit hunting for finishing off the coronavirus that it failed to make correct assessment of the lurking threat which is now manifesting throughout the country and has made India a global hotspot. Rahul Gandhi tweeted: “It’s ridiculous to debate needs & wants. Every Indian deserves the chance to a safe life.” He was commenting on  Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan’s assertion on Tuesday that vaccines would be given to the people who need it, not to those who want it. The Congress has been critical of the slow vaccination drive, arguing that covering around 70 per cent of population may take more than a decade at this pace. Former finance minister P. Chidambaram said in a series of tweets: “The IMA (Indian Medical Association) has called for universal vaccination. Several Chief Ministers have demanded universal vaccination. Yet the Central Government says there is no need for universal vaccination. The need of the hour is walk-in vaccination to all age groups without any pre-registration. “Because of its unscientific and stubborn stance, the Government has allowed the number of infections to gallop every day. A grave catastrophe awaits the country.” On the need-and-want debate, Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera said: “It was a very insensitive remark. Whenever the crisis is at its peak, suddenly the political leadership disappears and bureaucrats take charge. “Who decided that the bureaucrat needed the vaccine, but a delivery boy doesn’t need a vaccine? The bureaucrat is a powerful man or a woman, they have access to the vaccine, but, a food delivery boy doesn’t have access. Even frontline health workers can be deprived, who decides all this?” Pointing out deficiencies in planning and execution, Khera said: “Why are we hearing reports that vaccination centres are getting closed because of shortage of vaccines in many states? Why is the wastage as high as 6 per cent? In states like Telangana, wastage is 17 per cent and 9 per cent in Uttar Pradesh. We are slipping behind even developing countries; some countries have vaccinated over 50 per cent of the population. We have covered barely 5 per cent.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-224
08-04-2021||India||Covid surge casts a cloud on board exams ||Barely six months ago, Anu Rai had started taking the help of a private tutor to cover the syllabus before the Class XII board exams slated to start in the first week of May. The family, living in a slum at Madanpur Khadar in southeast Delhi, has only one mobile phone, therefore Anu and her two brothers could not attend online classes regularly. Her father, electrician Sushil Rai, was forced to shell out Rs 450 per month for Anu’s private tutor to see her through. Anu’s mother Renu Devi said the family had to borrow to pay the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) exam registration fee of Rs 2,750 for Anu and her bother Aneet, who too studies in Class XII. They have another brother who is in Class IX. For the past one month, the family is worried that the examination could be cancelled because of the resurgence of Covid-19 and students could be awarded marks on the basis of pre-board exams and internal assessments held by schools. Last year, some exams had already been held before the lockdown and marks had been awarded on the basis of that. Anu and Aneet said they hoped to better their pre-board exam performance in the board exams. “The pre-board exams have just concluded. I have done fine. But I can certainly do better in the board exams. If marks are awarded on the basis of the pre-board exams, it won’t be good for us,” Anu said. The sharp increase in coronavirus cases across the country has cast a shadow on the conduct of the board exams. Parents of children in government schools are largely in favour of the conduct of board exams following Covid protocols. “Our income is meagre. But we have spent Rs 12,000 on the education of Anu and Aneet in the past six months. They have prepared well. If the exams are not held, it will be a financial and academic loss for us,” Renu said. The parents of the majority of private school students want the board exams to be cancelled and marks awarded on the basis of performance in the pre-board exams and internal assessments such as projects and assignments. The mother of a student in Gurgaon said health and safety were more important. “It’s not just about the students and teachers but also about their families and the elderly members at home. As it is, it has been a tough year mentally for kids to sit in front of the computer and learn. Wherever possible, like for Class X, internal assessments can be considered. For Class XII, since it is a critical year given the importance of marks and college admissions, online or offline exams can be considered,” she said. Academics said the 2020-21 academic year had been turbulent. Last year, the CBSE had to cancel a few papers and award marks by calculating the average of the best performance in subjects for which exams could be held. This year, students have had to largely rely on online education. Schools had begun allowing students to come to school for doubt clearance and practical classes since October and November 2020, but the pandemic’s resurgence has affected these sessions. Dipika Rao, the principal of DPS Palam Vihar in Gurgaon, spoke about difficulties in online exams and evaluation of answer papers. She also said that holding exams within the stipulated time could be challenging at times due to network issues and bandwidth. Also, it is difficult to upload lengthy answer papers within the stipulated time. “The board should address the concerns of poor students who do not have the resources to take exams online. A huge number of children will be disadvantaged in the online mode. Many exam formats are not fully accessible over mobile phones,” she said. Rao said students had been away from school for long and would be out of practice on writing three-hour exams. She also highlighted the financial difficulties faced by students in preparing for board exams because of salary cuts and job losses of parents and the loss of income in case of unorganised sector workers. Rao said international boards like the International Baccalaureate and Cambridge had last year not held board exams and awarded marks on the basis of internal assessments. This should be followed by the CBSE, she said. Former CBSE chairman Ashok Ganguly said the boards should have been better prepared this year. “Unfortunately, we could not put in place formative (internal) assessments in a structured manner. The international boards managed it beautifully last year because they have a very scientific system of internal evaluation,” Ganguly said. He said the boards could have structured three-four formative assessments during this period and also a mix of summative (written exams) and formative tests in December or January where question papers could have been sent by the boards but the exams and evaluation could have been arranged at the school level. The final assessments could have been an average or mean of all such performances. “With the situation becoming extremely grim, conducting external exams in April-May seems to be not advisable and may not even be feasible. The only option left now is to shift the board exams to the first week of July and the new session for Class XI and the undergraduate courses can begin in September,” Ganguly said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-224
08-04-2021||India||Haryana cops use water cannon on protesting farmers||Police used a water cannon on Wednesday to disperse a group of farmers, who allegedly tried to go past barricades when local MLA Gopal Kanda arrived to cast his vote for the municipal council chairman’s post here. The farmers, protesting against the Centre’s new farm laws, gathered near the spot where the police had put up barricades and raised slogans against Kanda, the president of the Haryana Lokhit Party. Kanda had voted against a no-confidence motion brought against the Manohar Lal Khattar government in the state Assembly by the main Opposition Congress last month. Protesting farmers had blocked BJP MP Nayab Singh Saini’s car in Kurukshetra district’s Shahabad on Tuesday as he was about to leave a party worker’s home, the police had said. Four people were arrested on Wednesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-224
08-04-2021||India||Kerala polls 2021: Alleged CPM workers hack Youth League activist to death ||A suspected political killing rocked Kerala on the polling day with alleged CPM workers hacking to death a Youth League activist in Kannur district close to midnight on Tuesday. Mansoor, 22, sustained fatal injuries when some men, suspected to be CPM workers, hurled country-made bombs into his home in Panoor under Kuthuparamba Assembly constituency and then hacked him. A member of Youth League, the youth arm of Congress ally Indian Union Muslim League, Mansoor died early on Wednesday at a hospital in Kozhikode. His elder brother Muhsin, a UDF booth agent, was injured in the attack and is recovering in a private hospital in Kozhikode. Muhsin told reporters from the hospital bed on Wednesday that the attackers had originally targeted him and his brother got caught in the ensuing melee when he rushed out on hearing the commotion. Police took CPM worker and Mansoor’s neighbour Shinos into custody and launched a manhunt for the others involved in the attack. Mansoor’s father Mustafa told reporters on Wednesday that the area was not known for political violence and pleaded ignorance about the reason behind the incident. “Like in every election, there would be some minor arguments between party workers. But no clashes happen in this area,” Mustafa said. The brothers used to work in a Bangalore retail shop and had come down to their native village to work in the election. Mustafa denied his son facing any threats from CPM cadres. “There were no threats. Everyone carried out political work in a friendly atmosphere (in this area),” he said, adding they had no issues with Shinos. While Mustafa clarified that he did not suspect anyone, he said it looked like a pre-planned murder. “It looked like a pre-planned murder as our neighbours have seen around 20-odd people hanging around in the vicinity,” he said. Kannur police commissioner R. Ilango said a special investigation team would be set up to investigate the case and efforts were on to arrest all the suspects. The IUML has in a complaint alleged the CPM’s involvement in the killing to rock the political landscape of Kannur. “The motive appears to be political. As the investigation is on, we cannot come to a conclusion right now,” Ilango told reporters after visiting the crime scene on Wednesday. However, he was not ready to call it a pre-planned attack. “We cannot come to such a conclusion in less than 24 hours after the incident,” he said, adding that a thorough probe was needed to bring out the facts. The Kuthuparamba Assembly constituency had witnessed a tough fight between K.P. Mohanan of the Loktantrik Janata Dal, an LDF constituent, and Pottankandy Abdullah of the IUML. National general secretary of IUML, P.K. Kunhalikutty, condemned the attack and sought the arrest of all the culprits. “This is yet another of the cruel political killings by the CPM,” he said. Congress’s Ramesh Chennithala said the CPM was “unleashing terror due to the fear of losing the election”. The CPM denied any role in the attack. “Our workers were not involved in this. We had already told everyone not to engage in any kind of violence,” said state CPM acting secretary A. Vijayaraghavan. A few other post-poll clashes were reported in Kottayam and Alappuzha districts in which the Congress accused CPM cadres of attacking its workers. CPM and BJP cadres were involved in a clash in Kasaragod district injuring a BJP Yuva Morcha leader, Sreejith, who was later hospitalised in Mangalore in neighbouring Karnataka.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-225
08-04-2021||India||Oil reserve facility plan for Odisha||One of the largest strategic petroleum reserves of India will come up at Chandikhol in Odisha’s Jajpur district, about 70km from here, officials said. The facility will be built by the Union petroleum ministry in an area spread over 400 acres at a cost of Rs 10,000 crore. Union secretary for petroleum and natural gas Tarun Kapoor had visited the state and discussed the project with the Odisha government on Monday. The state government has assured to extend all kinds of support for the project. The Centre plans to invest Rs 92,556 crore in 10 big projects in the state in the coming days, according to officials.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-225
